mm

 

 .. . 93a: .. I... 2 z I . 1. .. u. . - .. ..:..1. in; ..........:..1..1...1.wi.....uv...

 

H13. <<.wa 1 Plait-f".

           

 

 

 

I . . . .
. v < . . . .
"W 4.4. , . T ins... L. .....::n\~<...~ x.\Fqui. : ,r . . . . . V .. n A: . .. .u .I..,.1PSEUR. . A ' 3.5151,:

"-51
.
a
&

 

. zv.---.-.--..V_. v V

W
w.__':;'._-'."$_1_\"SS( i

2- {waghemmw'amv xv: :.-Ir;324C/. :

:9
i
5'?
a:
g,
3'
5-:

LA? ED_
w
t
.
x
r
I
.
_
V n y
. ~ . .
.
0
.PR EF'A CE.

OM E writers have aflirmed that

mankind are all born with the fame,
difpofitions and the fame degree of un-
derftanding; and that education, laws,
and cuftmns, create all the difference
perceivable between man and man. I
confefs, I can hardly bring myfelf to
fuppofe that education alone produced

the wide diflimilari'ty which exifis be-.

tween the characters of Therfites and
Achilles, or thofe of Socrates and Any-
tus : at the fame time it Will ever be an
acknowledged truth, that evenhe who,
is molt indebted to Nature will. reap

A ' 3 but

.95,39W." <<2.? ML ;_'_Z;;i;: ;" '

'6- PREFACE.

but {mall advantage from her gifts, un-
lefs they are improved by mature and
judicious cultivation. A

. It is unnecefl'ary to undertake a {erious

' demonftration of a truth univerfally ad-~

mitted in all ages and nations ; a truth
confirmed by daily experience, and the
practice of which was the object con-
fiantly aimed at by the labours both of
the philofopher and the bulk of man-
kind. The improvement of the latter,
as far as it can be effected by education,
has been more attended to in the prefent
age than ever it was in any preceding
one. If the endeavours ufed to this
purpofe have not had all the fuccef's
that might be expected from them, they
have at leait excited the attention and
directed the minds of men towards an
object, the accomplifhment of which,
as it is more or lefs perfeet, has ever a

pro-
proportionable efl'eet upon the happi-
.' nefs of families, and confequently upon
the Fate of fociety in general.

A great genius of the prefent age
has contributed, even by his falfe opi-
nions, towards the accomplifliment of
this important object: for the'errors
of great men are remarked, and the
difcufiion of them frequently leads to

3 the truth from which they have devi--

1:; ated. Thus Mr. Rouffeau's Emilius

will, in fpite of the falfe Opinions ad-

vanced in it, always be a valuable book,

both on account of the important truths

which it contains, and thofe which it has

caufed to be difcovered ; and it would

be unjuft not to attribute to it at leaf} a

confiderable enlargement in our ideas
concerning education.

To free our fpecies, as far as in us

lies, from the ailments and difabilities

A 4 toWT" war--firs ~ 1

8 PREFACE.

to which Nature fubjeets them from
their very birth, is a great object, but
certainly not the only one. It 15 eflen-

' tial to fociety that its members be found

and robufi; in iconftitution ; but if they
are not, at the fame time, honef'c, juft,
and good, they will be of more preju-
dice than advantage to fociety Mr.
RoufTeau was perfeetly fenfible of this
truth ;' he has paid confiderable atten-
tion to it 3* but, if I- may be allowed
the afl'ertion, he Was'_frequently de-
ceived both in the-nature of 'focial vir--
tue, and the extent to which it {hould
be 'praetifed While he boldly attacks
the prejudices under which we are en--
flaved from our infaney, he has, on the
other hand, denied, or endeavoured to
render acubtful, many valuable truths
which confiitute our happinefs in'a

more advanced age; While-he meant
toP R E. F'_A CUEq ' 9

to prune away the greedy branches that
impeded the growth 'of the tree, he
has, though perhaps without intention,
wounded its very roots. W hilf't he
wilhes- to aim): Nature, he allows Na-_
ture too much 5 and where he thought
he found her defective, he has not al--
ways been able to find the belt means

of fupplying her defects. In a word,'
young Emilius. is the child of' Mrz

Roufleau's fancy, not the childof edu-i.

cation.

Neverthelefs, the following work His . '

indebted to that of Mr. Roufl'eau for

the form that it bears. Mr. Campe, the
author of it, expreffes himfelf thus :. -" I

never read the following pafl'age. .in the"

fecond volume of Emiliu's without 3the
mof't fenfible fatisfaetion; Nothing upon
earth can be f0 well' calculated to in;
fpire one with ardour in the execution

A 5 .4 of,zifcazzx::::_;::rz;trrr.;:it.n;_ ' .
1
, ,

10> PREFACE.

of a. plan approved by Io great a ge-
nius."
" Might there not be found means,"

tered in [0 many books ; to apply them
through a fingle objee'c of a familiar and
not uncommon nature, capable of en-

gaging the imitation, as well as roufing ,

and fixing the attention even at {0 ten-
der an age P If one could imagine a
fituation, in which all the natural wants

of man appear in the clearefi' light to '

the underfianding of a child, and in
which the means of fatisfying thefe
wants unfold themfelves fucceflively in
the fame clear, eafy manner, the lively
and natural defcription of fuch a {late
{hOuId be the firfl means that I would

ufie to fet his imagination at work.
' -" I fee thine expand already, thou ar-
dent

'fays Rouffeau, " to bring together {0
manylefl'ons of inftruetion that lie fcat~ iiP'REF'KCE'.>> I!

dent philofopher.' But be not in: pain 5
we have found fuch' a fituatiom It is
- defcribed, and no difparagement to your
talents, 'I much better. than you would
defcribe it yourfelf, at leaf: With more

truth and fimplieity. Sincewe mufthave \

books, there is one that fumifhes, in
my opinion, the bell: imagined treatife--
upon natural education that can pof.
fibly be. This book {hall be the firfl;
thatI will put into the hands of my
Emilius ;, this fingly {hall for a long;
time compofe his whole library, and
indeed {hall always hold a diflinguifhed
place there. It {hall he the text to
which all 0111: difcourfiesxupm natural;
{cience {hall ferve as a commentary... It
(hall- be the Criterion of our tafte and.
judgment ; and, as long as thefe re-
main uncorrupted, the reading of it
will always be agreeable to us.. Well,

A 6' then-a

O
QM u
then, What is this wonderful book? Is
it Arifiotle, Pliny, B'ufl'o'riJP ---No . it
is Robinfon CrufOe.- ' '

r77 "' Robinfo'n C1 u'foe, alone iii-his iiland;

'deprived of the aflifiance of his fellow

' creatures, without 9' tools of any fort,

yet providing for his fafety and fub-
'fil'cence, and even procuring himfelf a
fort of happinefs, prefents a fubjee't-in--i
.terel'ting to every age, and which there
might be a thoufand Ways of making
agreeable tio children. This you fee
realizes the ideal circumfiances of the
defert ifland, which I ufed at firi'c as a
comparifon; "I grant, it is by no means
the Rate of man as deltined for fociety ;

' * Mr. Roufi'eau is miliaken here. The O'd Re-

591/1311 Crufae has plenty of tools and infiruments, which
he faves from the wreck of a fliip- , whereas the New

Robz'nflm Crufae has nothing but his head and his hands
Wjdepfind onrfor his prefervation.

1 - ~ ' I: '. 'I :1 nay,
nay, probably Emilius might never e352
' perience fuch a fituation ; neverthelefs,
it is that by which - he {hould ePcimate \
the value of every other Condition in
life. The furef'c way to rife fuperior'td
all prejudiee, and to form our judg-L
ment-upon the true report of "things, ,
is to plaqe'ourfelyes in the fituation of a
' 'man'cut ofir from all ffociety, and to
judge of every th-ing'as that man .mufl:
naturally judge, regard being had at the
fame time to his oWn degree of utility
in the fphere of exifience. ' ~ I
"' This fiory, cleared of all its unne- I
ceflary rubbifh, beginning with R0-
binfon's being ,{hipwrecked upon his}
ifland, and ending With the arrival 'of
the vefTel that takesh-im away, rfhall' be
both the amufement and infirue'tion of
Emilius during the tender age that I
{peak of._ I will have his head run

b
upon '. ,f
upon nothing elfe but Robinfon Crufoe 3
he {hall talk incefl'antly about his cafile,
' his goats, and his 'plantatiOns. He
thall learn, not from books, but from
things, every fingle particular necefl'ary
to be known in fuch a cafe ; he {hall
imagine him/elf to be Robinfon Crufoe,
and drefs himfelf up in fkins, with a i
great cap on his hear], a broad (word. if"
by his fide, anda in (hort, the whole of
the grotefque drefs, and accoutrements"
with which we generally fee Robinfon-
Crufoe's pie'cure reprefented, except the
umbrella, for he {hall have no occafion if.
for that. I will have him Rudy how
he fhould proceed if he happened to be ;.
in want of this or that neceffary; he
{hall examine his hero's conduct, and. '
try if he has left nothing undone, or if
he went the belt way to work about
what he has done 5 he {hall remark

where

 

 

1' _.- - it
>>.__'.;.<<... f . "."W
where he is wrong, and take care not
to fall into the fame mifl-ake himfelf;
for you need nOt have the leaf: doubt
but he will be for imitating Robinfon
in his whole plan. Nothing, indeed,
can be better calculated to pleafe the
imagination at that calm period of life"
when, if our wants are fatisfied, and
our aetions unrefh'ained, we look no
farther for happinefs.

" What advantage may not an able
matter take of this romantic projeet in a
child! a projeel: to which he himfelf has
given birth for the fake of the profitable
fruits that may be reaped from it. The
child, ever buTy andeager to make provi-
fion for his ifland lettlement,will be more
ready to learn than the matter to teach.
He will defire to know every thing that

is ufeful, and nothing more 5 you'wil]

' ' ' - have.'lieve this caution is well founded, - for

36 P' R- Ev"-F'"A- c' E;

which one man alone is fufiicient, leads' (2-2;:
to the-invention 'of the arts of indui'cry,'
which require the co--operation of many???
hands.'

This paflage fiorn Roqueau will ex-
plain, infinitely better than I can, the 3::
utility of a book compofed upon fuch
a plan ; it now remains to be feen how
far Mr. Campe,t the author of the fol-
lowing work, has purfued Mr. Roufw
feau' s idea.

The public 18 pretty generally agreed '>>
not to depend on the report of tranflators '
concerning the works which they tranf--
late, ' efpecially if their judgment be
favourable to the original : and I be-

   

it is no eafy matter to decide with 1m-

partlahty

' 'W13 1'P R I; F A c E. q 17
partiality where {elf-opinion has equal
influence With juf'cice in pafiing the-
fentence.

~ Perhaps fome may not thinlgas I do
concerning this work of Mr. Campe's ;
particularly, thofe who are fond of me--

i - taphyficaltreatifes upon education, will,~ "

no doubt, be difappointed to find no--

: ' thing in the New Robinfon Crufoe but

things thatiare ufeful, introduced in an
unaffected manner, clearly exprefTed and
demonflrated Without pedantry; they
will be furprifed to fee children {peak
like children, and their inf'cruelor af-
fume the fimplelanguage of childhood,
in order to make himfelf underflood'.
T hofe who are. governed by the fpirit of
free thinkng will find it flrange that
religion is-refpee'ted and rendered .re-
fpee'taible in this' work ; that God is re-
prefented as the mover of, all things,

' and

_..\.

5,2

11mm- fufiicient to deflroy every advantage that:

 

   
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
  

18 PREFACE.
and the principle to which 'all our an?
tions {hould be referred, as well as theft;
motives which determine them, and?! j?
the fentiments which gave them birthfi?
Thefe are, no doubt, particularities <<
that may be remarked: neverthelefs, at;
this time of day, to think wifely, We:
muff not always think with philofophereii': t

" The Old Robinfon Crufoe,' ' fayefif
Mr. Campe, 1n his Prefaceto theoriginal j
of this work, " independent of its other}:~

defee'cs, is erroneous in one particular}? ,

this Hiftory might produce, which 13:33?
that Robinfon Crufoe IS provided w1th'
all forts of European tools and mftm--f'
merits necefl'ary to procure him many,
of thofe conveniencies that belong to ;
fociety, Thus the opportunity is loflzvf
of affording the young reader a lively
fenfe both of the wants of man in a Rate,
of folitude, and the multiplied happi-
nefs of a foeial life; another important
rcafon Why I thought proper to depart
from the old Hifiory of Robinfon
Crufoe. _

" I have, therefore, divided the time
i. ' of my New Robinfon Crufoe's remain-
ing upon the ifland into three periods.
In the firfi he is all alone and deftitute
of any European tool or infirument
. whatfoever, aflif'ting himfelf merely by
' ' his hands and invention ; in, order to
fhew, on the one hand, how helplefs man
is in a {fate of folitude, and, on the
other, how much reflee'cion and perfe--
vering efforts can contribute to the im-
provement of our condition. In the
fecond period, I give him a companion,
on purpofe to thew how much a man's
fituation may be bettered by taking even
this fingle fiep towards fociety. Lafily,

m

w. \
,.
'u ,
i
,
f;
l)
.ek
s.
3,
'.~'.
.I A
i
:3
g:

'54" V. R" Hf'ehu.'

11' {I -i- .
4

:<<ozt 1.5 .;. .525; 1::\

zo_ PREFACE.

   
  

if;
in the third period, a vet-Tel from Europe;

is fhipwrecked on his- ifland, and gives"
him an opportunity thereby of pro;'i

viding himfelf with tools and moth:
otherb articles necefTary in common life,
in order that the young reader may fee .:
how valuable many things are of which '
we are accuftomed to make very littleigl;
account, becaufe we have never expe-E'
rienced the want of them." '1"

 

Thus far the French Tranflator's'E.
Preface- , which containing a very amj-E. ,
ple explanation of the plan and {cope}?
of the following wOrk, there is little
necefiity to offer any thing 1n addition ;
to what he has faid upon that fubjeet.3
It only remains for the Englifh Tranf--E;

lator to .requefi the indulgence of the
/ Public, .

('ng

;', 1'. E '2, v.13.
rtgfll-'pfiu; <<1-1;
Public, on account of the deviations

' A. which he has taken the liberty to make ,

.from the original. Many pafTages he
has fonnd himfelf obliged either to omit

entirely, or to throw into a new form,
according as the difference of national
' manners and charae'cer feemed abfolutely
to require it. He hopes, however, that
this liberty has never been ufed unlefs

' under circumf'cances of unavoidable ne-

ceflity. For the external form of this
little work, it is but juf'c to obferve,
that no pains have been {pared to em-
bellifh it, and that the addition of 32
handfome cu'ts cannot fail of rendering
it at once more fprightly and intelligible
to the young reader, for whom it is in-
tended. In effect, thefe little prints
ferve admirably to afford the child a juf'c
conception of the remarkable paflages
in a work 5 and it may, perhaps, be

V aflirmed,
    
   
   
      

affirmed, with truth, that no parts, ev;
of the mofl interef'cing fiories, make a
flronger or more lafiing imprefiion On
the memory, than thofe which are thje
.fubje'e'cs of the cuts. 3%

With thefe advantages, it is hoped,
'the New Robinfon Crufoe will find it;
way to the fiudies of the younger clafs
of both foxes, and afford them at once
both innocent entertainment and morai
infirue'cion. 'NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

FIRST EVENING.

GENTLEMAN, of the'name of
Billingfley, refided fome years ago at
' T wickenham, who, having a pretty large
family, and but a moderate fortune, deter--
mined to undertake himfelf the care of his
children's education. ' He propofed, by this
plan, on the one hand, to avoid the enormous
expence of keeping them at what are called
genteel boardinggfchools, and, on_the other,

40' havioum To remark, with filent but at~

courfe of their education.

' courfe of reading; and fome book, that was

 

   
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
   
    

24- THE NEW

to enjoy the plealing .obfervation of their im
provement in learning, fenfe, and good he-
. '1
tent1ve eyes, the gradual advance of his '

<<A:

children towards the perfeetion of reafon andi 3
virtue- , to allif't, with his advice and 111-;

flr'uetion, their endeavours to become morig if;
learned, honeft, and wife, and to have the -
happy cOnfcioufnefs, that he Ihould one 6:
day be confidered, what all parents ought,

as the infirument and caufe of his children s
eternal welfare , all this, he thought, would ,
be more than a fufficient reward for whateveijf's 3

cares and fatigue he fhould undergo 1n the
5;

_ V A-
He, therefore, laid down for them a re--- _

gular plan of Rudy, to which he afterwards .
firielly adhered. In this was included a",

at once both ini'truetive and entertammg,
afforded them amufement every evening for
two or three hours before (upper. But,as "
this eXercife was meant by their father (01er E
a.
'4}:

to encreafe their fund of knowlege, and:
enlarge 1;.<<Jung-4n>> t';?e$'iigtfivfiC/iSSSS'fi; ""' . ' \ i
' ', .l'i

 

ROBINSON \CRUSOE. H.

enlarge their underflanding, in order that
it might appear'rather as a relaxation from
their clofcr fludies, than a labour impol'ed
ontthem, Mr. Billingfley, in general, un~
dertook the talk of reading himfelf. The
following Hifiory- of the New Robinfon
Crufoe was, during fome weeks, the {ub-
jee't of their evening's entertainment; and
was thus introduced.

Mr. and Mrs. Billingfley, being feared by
the parlour fire, together with Mr. Role and
Mr. Meredith, two intimate'friends of the
family, and all the children, whofe names
will appear fuccefilvely in the courfe of the
Rory, being alTembled in their proper
places, 'Mr. Billingfley began his relation
as follows :

M'r. Bil/ingflcy. V'Well, my dear chil-
dren, l have a book for your entertainment
this evening that contains a very extraor-z
dinary fiery. Some parts of it will make
your hair f'tand'on end, and others will
perfee'tly delight you.

VoL. l. B George.ArbAM-sh. , 4.3.21 41 '

1....-." .

 

' himfelf as a foldier, went abroad with h1sJ .

  
 
  
  
 
   
   
    

26 T 11 E N E W
George. Ah. ' but do not let it be too nae-9;>> 3 "3

lancholy, papa.
Harriet. No, my dear papa, not too}:
melancholy; for then it will make _us all cry,
you know. ,. .
Ric/947d. Hold your tongues; papa-'15
knows what to read, I warrant you. '
Mr. Bill. Do not be unealy, my derarSQ'll
I will take care that there {hall not be any.

 

thing too tragical in it. .
There lived in the town of Exeter a:

perfon of the name of Crufoe, who follow--
ed the profeffion of a broker. He had
three ions, the eldefi of whom, having: :-
an inclination to ferve 1n the army, enlified %

 

  
 
    
 
   
   

I.

regiment to Flanders, and was killed at the; '
battle of F ontenoy '

The fecond entered the Univerlity of}?
Oxford, and made a confiderable progref'sf :1
in learning , but purfuing his fiudies with}
too much eagernefs, he impaired his health ,1 "
beyond all poflibility of recovering, and ;.;1;

died of a confumption. 29$
'Thercigg
There remained, therefore, but the
'younget'c, whofe name was Robinfon. In
him, as he was now become their only fon,
Mr. and Mrs. Crufoe placed all their hopes
and expee'tations. They loved him as the
apple of their eye, but their love was blind
and injudicious.

Gee. What is themeaning of that, papa?
Mr. Bill. I will tell you-your mother
and I love you all, my dear children, as
you well know; but for that very reafon we
keep you clof'e at your bulinefs every day,
and teach you many things both ufeful and
agreeable, becaufe we know that to be the
bell: way to make you good and happy.
But Robinfon's parents did not aft in the
fame manner. They fufi'ered their clear
child to do whatever he pleafed ; and as this
dear child liked better to play than to work
or to learn any thing, they let him play al-
mol't the whole day long, by which means he
learned little or nothing. Now this is What
we call 'an injudicious love in parents.
Gee. I underfiand now, papa. '

B 2 Mr.
.A; <<a gnaw-3":

.' firipling before his parents. had determined-- '

a ,,7__._m:.\. M'eMw .....i,

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   

28 T. HE 'rN~E-W
~ -~Mr.vBiZl. Robinfon grewuup a'l'cont is?

what profeflion they fhould give him. His
father was defirous that he fhouldrlearn fomc ' '
trade,- but'the {on had not the leaf: inclinae _
tion that way. He faid he lhould like bet-->> :
ter to trayel, to fee the world, and become
acquainted with- the . various objefis ..and "1"
cui'toms that-foreign countries afi'ord.
=In {peaking thus,.young. ,Crufoe.,fl1ewod
his ignorance and folly. .If he had begun f' '
by laying in. algood flock of learning, it.
would have >>.been V. another matter. (But '
what profit. could a raw, ignorant boy, like ,.
him, gain by feeing foreign countries 2 When
a man wifhes .to make. his way,.in_the world, > 3 ,
be it in what country it will, he- ought to be I
provided beforehand with a tolerable {hare
of knowledge; but thiswas what. Robinfon;

never. once thoughtof. ' '1???-

,Heiwas now feventeen-years of age. The? _
greatel't part of._this time he had mifpent ing .
.fauntering about and playing in the {treetsji'giig

<<if:

tafEXthr. :Every day he wastcazing 'hisggi

   

g

Q! .

 
  
    
  
 
 
   

father

l

a}
a,

   
 

     

5"R"'O'B'I'N s o N ' C'R'USO E. 2-9
father for leave to go and travel; But his
father told 'him' that' he did not know his ,

- own mind,' nor what foft of'a requefi he was >>
making, and 'th'erefore-wou-ld not hear a -.
word upon 'the-{ubjeeh' " My dear child,"
hismother-would fay to him, " f'cick to ~-
your own country, and never think of ram;
bling." ' '

One day *' ' " -~

Harriet. :Aha ! now it'be'gin's; .

Ed'w. 'Pfhaw! hold your-tongue)":

Ma'Bz'll. One day,'when, according to '
cuf'cdm, he'was firoll'ing about the fireets, he '
met one- of - his old-playfellows; whofe fan-l
ther was'captain' of - a {hip trading to Am;
fterdam, and'who had juf'c Come down from
Plymouth to fee-{ome of his relations that
lived at; Exeter.* He told Robinfon that he
was to {ct ofl" with his=father -in a day' or .
two for Amfterdam. -. .

Charlotte; What; papa, 'by the Rage? ,4

Henry. -'-No, Charlotte, but in a fhip';
for you mui't crofsthe {ea to -go to Amfter--

.dam. Well, Apapa. ~

Mr; Bill. Heaiked Robinfon ifhe-fhould
B .3 .. like

. >> u my... -- 4,1>> . at 41.,
. "' "'4<<:'.?PS<~2g&"mC/y&x4r

 

    

W~W>>>>mhw~n ' A w _

,w'" :4:&.$wsC/' i'wl yaw ' 1%". '
L,

-.r,>>:g.,(

   
  
  
  
   
   
  
    
   

30 T H E .N E W
like to go with him. " Yes, very well," re--
plied he, " but my .parents will not confent

with me as you are, jul't for the frolick. We -
{hall be back again in a month or fix weeks; ,
' and as to your father and mother, you have _ .
only to let them know where you are gone." I
" But," lays Robinfon, " Ihave no mo-
ney in my pocket." " You will not want
any," replied his companion , " but if you ,
Ihould, when we arrive at Aml'tcrclam, I'll
fupply y."ou
Young Crufoe hefitated a few moments,
as ifconfidering what refolution he lhould a: i
take ; at left, flapping his companion's a:-
hand, he cried, " Agreed, my boy! I will, '53
go along with you: let us fet of? thisrmo-
ment for Plymouth." At the fame time be H
commif'fioned one of his acquaintances to ,, _
let his father know (after the expiration of '31-:
a few hours), that he was Only gone to fee
the 'city of Amf'terdam,'in Holland, and _'
that hefhould be back in a week or two.
Rick. I do not like this Mr. Robinfon:
Crufoe.

Edw. '='figfiifi afifiafifinE.. tiizatdfiag
Edw. NorI neither.

_ Mr. Rafe. Why f0, Richard?
_ Ric/9. Becaufe he feems to make nothing '
of leaving his father and mother without?
their permiflion. '

Mr. Ref-e. You are "extremeiy'righr, .
Richard; he committed there a veryirafh;
foolifh a6tion,- and we Afhould pityhim for-
his" foliy.. But, thank Heaven; there'are
"not many young perfons nowfo ignorant as.
not to know~ their duty towards their-paw
rents. 5.

Edw. What ' are there other boys, then,
like Robinfon Crufoe. P

Mnekofe. I have not yetfound-any; 'but' '
one thing I know for certain, 'which is, that:
no good can ever come of 5young'people
who behave like him. . 5 .

Rich. Well, let us hear what Becomes of .
Robinfonu

Mr. Bill... A ihort time after Robinfon .
and the captain's mn were got on board,- .
the faflors weighed anchor andrfe'Ltheir fails.
The wind blew freih, and they cleared out ,

B 5 _. . ofE
.'E
E
E

_ter. By degrees they began to lofe fight of 2%

   
  
 
   
     
   
   
  
 
   
 

32 .THE NEW>>

of the harbour, bidding adieu to Plymouth 7
for a fhort while. Young Crufoe was upon i
the deck with his friend, and almoft out of [i_ '
his witswith joy that he was at lehgth going
to begin his travels. i

of the town and harbour of Plymouth.
They were now on the open fea, and R09. g
binfon flared with admiration when he fawn Q":
nothing before him but the fky and the wa- $5
land, and as night came on, they could fee $7,
nothing on that quarter but the Eddifione e
iighthoufe. This alfo difappeared in a 3}:
{hart time, and from that moment Robinfon 2'
faw nothing above him but the Iky, nor ['9ij
before, behind, and allwround him, but the ;
fea. 7 7 =3: ,
Geo. 'That m'ufi be a profpeet !

' Mr. Jl/Iered. It is not impoflible but you
may. fee fuch a one before it be long. I?
Geo. .Oh ! {hall we go upon the {ca .9 .-'-*
,Mr. Mered. If you will be very attentive
while
while vou are learning geographv, (0 as to
_know which eourfe you mui'c take to go
from one piace to anoehen A

. MK. Bi/Z.- Yes, and if by working con-
fiantly, and being temperate in your Vic- '
tuais, you make your bodies hardy enough
to bear the fatigue of {och a voyage, we may,
perhaps, {ome day'in "furnmer, take a boat
down the river as far as'London, where
fome of you have never been yet.

All the Children. Oh 1 oh 1

Mr. Bill. I cannot tell but we may take
a trip to Margate for a few weeks, where
you will have as wide a profpee't of the fear
as Robinfon Crufoe had when he was failing
out of Plymouth harbour. ( Here they alt' get
up and run nhout their father. They hang
on his net/e, his arms, and his knees, exu-
pref 12g their joy with mnflizs, clapping of
hands, andjnmpz'ng nhout. ) - ,

Harriet Will you let me make one of '
the party. P

Mrs. Bill. Yes, my dear, 1f you are able
to go f0 far.

B 6 Harriet.
Harriet. Butit is very far, is not it, pa..-
pa ? Perhaps farther than Richmond, where 3'
Mr. Compton lives, and another gentle-r>>? '

man that has a great houfe and a large gar--f
den--oh! {0 large! a great deal larger than i
our garden. I was all through it, was not'g
I, papa? the day that Charlotte and I were g:
gathering cowflips in the meadow. g -

Mr. Bill. Yes, .I remember, and we were :- -l
looking atthe folks plowing. , A '

Harriet. Yes, and we went into a finith's i
forge that was by the road's fide. ' .

'Mr. Bill. And afterwards up into awind- ,
mill.

Harriet. Ah, yes, whererthe wind blew;
0E" my bonnet.

Mr. Bill. Which the miller's boy brought
back to you again. ,

Harriet. That was a good boy; was not 11.3 '
he, papa ? l.

Mr. Bill. Yes, he was a good boy for i:
being f0 obliging as to do us a kindnefs, 1'
though he had never feen us before. .

Harriet.

gnaw- w "3".

x

1 My -

:31>>; Sega ee-le-J'
Harriet. However, you gave him fame-
thing, I fUPpre-

-Mr. Bill. Certainly, my dear, I gave
him fomething; for every one likes to re-
ward thofe that are obliging--But we for-
getRobinfon Crufoe. We mull make hafie
to overtake him, or elfe we {hall lofe fight
- of him, for he is going at a furious rate.

. For two days they had confiantly good
weather, and a favourable wind. The
third day the fky-was darkened with clouds,
the wind blew with uncommon violence,
and the air grew every moment darker and
darker.

In fhort, it was a dreadful f'torm. At
one time the lightning flafhed as if the fky
was on fire ,_ then fucceeded a pitch}; dark-
nefs, like that of midnight, with claps of '
thunder which they thought would never
end. The rain came down in floods, and
the violence of the wind tofl'ed the {ea about
in fuch a manner that the waves fwelled and
Iofe mountain high, .

Then it would have been worth while to

feefee' how the fhip went Fee-(aw. One times;
large wave carried it, as it-'were, Up to the";
clouds; another time it dipped down as if"
it was going to the bottom of the deep 1:359
then it rolled to one fide and the other, andf}
lay down {0 flat that at times its very maflefi

i
. . _ , .i I
firemed to toUch the water. "i

What a n'oif'e Was. amongft the ropesb'fi

what at clattering upon the deck! Thegf

failots were obliged, each of them, to 11015.13:
{aft to fomething or other for fear of bemgf
wafhed overboard; Robinfon C rufoe, who"
had nev'er been accuftomed to all this, grewgg
giddy, felt a ficknefs at his fiomach, an

was f0 bad that he thought he fhould haven/3,

vomited to death. They call it fea-fiek-'i .
nefs;

Rich. That is what he has gained by-
running away. : ' - ' I
Mr. Bill. -" Oh ! my poor parents I mfiiu
poor father and mother!" cried he incef-r'ii
fantly; "they will never fee me morelw

Oh miferable tool- that I am to have brought}: '
this afilie'tion on them l"_ ... V-V"varn--v...-itO'Mw-rwtmuw ' . '

RoBINSON CRUSOE. 37

Crack! went fomething on the deck.
" Heaven have mercy on us l" cried the fail--
ors, turning as pale as death, and clafping
their hands together. "What is the matter P"
aflced Robinfon, who was half-dead With

afiright.
" Ah ! we are all lofi: I" anf'wered one of

' the feamen ; " the lightning has ihivered

our mizen--maft to pieces," (that is, the
hindmof't of the three malts that are in a
fhip,) " and the main-malt fiands by {0
flender a hold that we mufi cut it down and
throw it overboard."

"We are all lol't l" cried out another voice
from below; " the {hip has {prung a leak,
and there are four feet water in the hold."

At thefe words Robinfon, who was fitting
down on the cabin floor, fell backwards
void of fenfe and motion. All the reft ran to
the pumps, in order, if poflible, to keep the
veiTel afloat. At laf'r, one of the failors came
and fhook Robinfon by the fhoulder, afk-
ing him if he intended to be the only one

who would do nothing for the prefervation
of38-. THE new

of the fliip, but he then: firetched at his"
length while all the refi of the people work.
ed. until they were not able to (land. "
He tried, therefore, to rife, weak 23 hit,-
was, and took his place at one of the.
pumps. In the mean time the captain or-
tiered fome guns to be fired as a fignal of ,5f
dif'trefs to other- fhips, if there fhould hap4 7';
pen to be any within hearing capable of al~1i ; '
fii'ting them. Robinfon, who did not know?! 5
5 the meaning ofthefe flims, thought the vefi'el 5
was fplitting in pieces, and fainted 1111111215132}~~ it}
again. One of the failOrs, who took his{
place at the pump, puf'ned him on one fide 31'

'_l

with his foot, and left him there fire: chedg: .5
at full length, imagining that he was dead.';, 1'1" 5

They pumped with all their firength; r.
neverthelefs the water fiill gained upon them>> ;
in the hold, and now they only waited fori;
the moment when the veifel would finial"
In order to lighten her, they threw over~
board every thing that they could poiliblyr ,
(pare, as the guns, bales of goods; hogffif

heads,- 3' 5 ' 5Rosaries o N; CAR vs 0 B. 39
heads; 8:0. But all that, was of no man-
net: of fervice. ,

However, another {hip had heard their
fignals of dil'trefs, and,.as the l'torm began
about this time to abate confiderably, ven-
tured to fend out her boat,'in order, if polli-
ble, to fave the~crew. But the boat could not
-come near, the waves running too high.

~ At, length, however, they came-neat enough
to throw a rope to the people who were on
board, by means of which they towed the
boat clofe under the {hip's item, and then
every one who could make ufe-ofi his legs
eagerly jumped into it. Robinfon, who
could not fiand..upon his, was tumbled in
hafiily by fame of the feamen more com-
pafiionate than the rel'c. '
They had hardly rowed many minutes, be-' ,
fore the flip, which was fiillptetty. near
them, funk . before their eyes. Happily
the l'corm was now almofl- totally abated,
otherwife the waves would inevitably have
fwallowed up the boat, which wasthen as .
full ofpeople as .it could hold. -' After ma-

ny, V
ny dangers it got fafe at length to the fifip;
where they were all taken in. - '3: 5;"
Geo. Ah I u ell, I am glad, however, tha
the poor people weie not diowned.
Edit}. I was fadly in pain for them.
Harriet. Well, this will teach mafia-
Robinfon never to be 10 naughty again. 5%?
Mrs. Bill. That is juft my opinion rod.
Let us hope that he will be the better {3};
this danger. 3}?
Henry. Well, what became of him af:
ter? ' if
Mr. Bill. The {hip that had taken hlm:
and the ref: of the crew in, was bound to _}
London. In four days {he arrived at the:

the river. ~ iii"
Charlotte. What IS the Nore, papa .1 ii

Mfr. Bill. The Note is a {mall fandyv
bank at the mouth of the Thames, wher
a vefi'el lS con-{tantly fiationed, which hangs:

up two lights every night to be a guide to '7"
{hips that enter the river. '

 

h)
' aha to have thus efcaped the dangers of the

(ea. As to Robinfon, his firf't care was to fee
London, and for this purpofe he {pent a
day or two in rambling all over the city,
where he met with fuch a variety of new 0b-
jeets as entirely put the remembrance of path
dangers out of his head, as well as all

_ thoughts of the future. Happening one

day to meet the captain with whom he had
{ct fail from Plymouth, he received an in--
vitation to dine with him, which was very
agreeable to Robinfon, as he had fpent
what little money he had borrowed from the

~captain'sfon, and his pocket now was not

able to aficord him a fingle meal. At din-
net the captain afked him what particular
mOtive he had for going to Amfizerdam, and
what he intended to have done there. Ro-
binfon anfwered him frankly, that he had
nothing in view but his amufement; that
he had come of? unknown to his father and
mother, and at prefent did not know what

to do with himfelf.
" Unknown to your father and mother I"
cried' _\ . . -: .Wz'
4.2.} T. H E N E _ '3'

cmed'the captain, laying <<down his' khifg .
and fork: "Good heavens! why did not. I .

know. that before? ~ Believe me, impala-
dent young man; if I. "had known -fo mud"
at Plymouth, 1 would not have taken you"? _ "
on board of myl'hip, if you had 0373er inc;
3 million ofmoneyfl 7'"

 
   

ing for Ihame, (andunable to anfwer-a fir};
gle words, '

The honefl: captain'contin'ued to reprefeht ; j I 1
to. him the folly that he had, been guilty of; l , I
and told him that heacouldt never be happy, ,, t
unlefs he -V repented of whathe-'had 'done;
and obtained forgiVenefs of his-parents. At; 2
thefe words .Ro'binfon'wept bitterly: >>. e'

" But. what .canI do now?" cried-315a n
at lengthyfob'bing heavily. - " What can >y-'(w5t't~
do P"_ faidfthe..captain :.. " Return to your >> "
parents, fall onyour knees before then), li
and, like a \fcnfible and dutiful lad, implgte d
their pardon for your imprudencc:- thatis is
what you can do, and what you ought to? d
(152." >> n"R 0 i311}! 80 N CRU S GE. 43
'Harriet. Ah, papa, :IJike this captain

much ;- he was a very good'man.

Mr..Bz'll.. My dear, he did whatevery

<<one ought to. do when he fees: his' fellow-
' 'creaturefall into an error; he Endeavoured
., to bring this young man- back to his duty.

1' .Will you take me with you' to Ply.
'mouth again?" {aid RobinfOn.
a Who, I P" faid the captain: " Have

;" . you forgot, then, thatmy'ihip is' lol'c?'It

may beva confiderable time before I' return
there in a {hip of my own : bot as for you,
there is not a moment to lofe; you lhould
go aboard>> oflthe --very. firft vefi'el that fails
for Plymouth, if it were even to-day. '

" But," fays Robinfo'n,' " I have no mo--f
ney."

'" Well," faid the honei'c captain, " I
will lend you a couple of guineas outVOf the
little that I have to fpare. Go down to
the-river, and get aboard of fome velfel that
is.bound for Plymouth, unlefs you rather
chufe to travel by land. If your repen-
tance is fincere, God will. blefs your return,

and
and make it happier than your outfet 11%. "

been." With thefe words, having made
an end of dinner, he {hook Robinfon. by
the hand, and wiihed him a good voyaoe'f,
who parted from him with many thanks {0:5
hiskindnefs and good advice. '31:

Edw. What, is he going back homc,

again already? I thought the fiory was "
only beginning. "- J

1'5 if

Mrs. Bill. Are not you fatisfied,ther'1,'_'

my dear Edward, that he fliould go borne.
to his parents, and put an end to the forum
and dif'cre {s that they fufi'er on his account5 ._'

Mr. Mered. And are you not pleafed to '

find that he fees his error, and 1s willing to
make amends for 1t. 9 , - "5'

,1.,.

Edw. Yes--~that---to be fure. Butii;

Ventures.

While he was walking down towards the
river, his head was filled with various re<<:<
fleetions. I " What Will my father and mo-

th'er. fay," thought he to himfelf, "' if I

00 back to them now E' Certainly they will
' gunifh me for what I have done. And then

311 my companions, and every one elfe that

hears of it, What game they will make of

me for returning f0 foon, after feeing only
__ 'two or three fireets of London 1"

This thought made him flop fhort. One.
moment he fe'emed determined not to go'
home yet; again, he reflected on what the,
captain had told him, that he would never
be happy unlefs he returned to his parents.
For along time he was at a lofs what to re-
folve on. At length, however, he went
down to-the river; but there he learned, to
his great fatisfaetion, that there was not a
fingle veiTel in the river bound for Ply--
mouth. . The perfon who gave him this in-
formation was a captain of a {hip in the
African trade, who was fluortly to fer fail for
the coal't'of Guinea. .

Cbarlotte. Where is the coal't of Guinea,.

papa?
' i \ H , Mr. Bill.
Mr. Bill. Henry can tell y0u that; ha.
knows where It: lies. . 1
Henry. Don't you remember there 15 25,

country called Africa? Very well, one party}
of the wait

Charlotte. Coaf't! What is that? i ii
Henry. The land that lies along by the .,
fea-fide. Hold, here's Fenning' s GeograL.
phy: look at this little map. All this part if

of Africa that turns down here is called the
Coafl of Guinea. 33

Mr. Bill. 'And E'nglifh {hips fail to this.
coafl in order to trade there. The perfan'j
who {poke with Robinfon was captain of}E
one of thofe fh1ps 45.1>> I

When he found that the young man had .
1'0 eager a defire for travelling, and would
have been forty to return f0 foon to Ply;
mouth, he propofed to him to take a trip to
the- Coafl: of Guinea. Robinfon at firf't was
{tattled at the idea: but when the captain
aITured him that the voyage would be ex-jf-
ceeding pleafant- , that, fo- far from coiling -.
him any thing, it might turn out a very

profitable: '
Profitable adventure. Robinfon's eyes he>>
gan to fparkle, and his pafiion for travellin; I.
revived in his 'breaft with fuch force that
he immediately forgot every advice which
the honefi; Plymouth captain had given

him, and all the good refolutions that he

himfelf had taken but fo Ihort a time before.

" But," faid he, after confidering a
while within himfelf, " I have only two
guineas in the world; what ufe can I make
offo'fmall a fum in trading at the place that
you mention?"

" I will lend you five more," {aid the
captain; " that will be quite fufl'icient to
purchafe you goods, which, if we have but
tolerable fuccefs, may make your fortune."

" And what fort of goods multl pur-
chafe E" {aid Robinfon. , . _

" All forts of toys and playthings," an-
fwered the captain; " glafs, beads, knives,
fcifi'ars, hatchets, ribbands, guns, &c. of
which the negroes ofAfrica are {0 fond that
they will give you a hundred times the va-

lue in gold, ivory, and other things."

VOL. I. C Robinfon
     
 
    
     
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
    
    
 

for Joy. He forgot, at once, his parents,' f

friends, and countryl " Captain," faid he"? 1;
'-"I am willing to go along with you when--PS-
ryou pleafe." 23%;"
" Agreed!" replied the other, taking
:him by the hand, and thus the matter was
fettled. '57 .

Rich. Well, now it is all over, I Ihallnc-ilr
ver have the leaf: pity any more for fuch
blockhead as Robinfon, whatever misfor-
tunes may happen to him. i '

Mr. Bill. No pity, Richard. P

as to forget a fecond time his duty to hi
_..parents 9 Providence, no doubt, will p '
nifh him afrefh for It.

to forget his parents, and to draw down 5::
upon himfelf the chal'tifement of Heaven:
I grant he is himfelf the caufe of every thing. ._i
that happens to him; but is not he for that: "

very reafon to much the more unfortunate?
Oh! -
PS2 ,,

'I
Oh! my dear child, may Heaven pre-'
.ferve you and every one of us from that-

mofl: terrible of all punifhments, to. feel that
we alone have caufed our own wretchednefs !
But whenever we hear'of fuch an unfortu-
nate perfon, we fhould confider that he 13
our brother, our poor deluded brorher, we
fhould fhed over him tears of companion,
and offer up to Heaven the prayers of bro-
therly love 1n his behalf.

All were filent for a-few moments ;.iafier
which Mr. Billingfley continued in the fol-
lowing words :

Robinfon made haf'te to lay out'his fe-
ven guineas. He purchafed with them
fuch articles as the captain had mentioned
to him, and had them carried on board.

After fome days, the wind being favour-
able, the captain weighed anchor, and they

fet fail.

Hcmy. What eburfe fllOUld they hold to

arrive at Guinea 3
Mr. Bill. Here, you have F ennmg 3
Geography: Ifhould think you cannot be at
. C 2 alofs.50 -'r-"H E ~N5E~w .
,a lofs to know, as you pointed out to your-'31
fitter the Coaft of Guinea jufl; now. How.

.ever, Iwill {hew you their courfe You fee, 1'>> .1
from London here they go dawn the'.'~"""

the Cape Verd Iflands, until at lafi: they '_'
land hereabouts on the Coaf't of Guinea. ' '
i H6117}. But at What particular fpot will-7i; '_' 1"
they land 9 .

Caftle. k
> Mrs. Bill. W,ell nowI think it is hi h?
time for us to fet fail towards the land of." 3i
.fupper. What think ye, children. P 1? '2? ' '

Geo. I am not the leai't hungry, mama.

Harriet. And I would rather hear the
fiery too. . ,3>> .

M7. Bill. vTo-morrow, my dears, Maggi"
morrow evening we {hall have the tell of")
.Robinfon's adventures. At prefent we wil ; a ,
put him by and prepare for fupper. \ . >>yquuab 1.4.9' 2 "

___. ,W,~_K_ WV. r. .. \|'\-v-.mwu"l~C/lv"-"V

ROBINSON cnvrson. gr

SECOND EVENING.

17 THE next evening the whole company

having taken their places as before,'

-' Mr.Bi11ingfley continued his fiory in the

following terms.

Robinfon' s fecond voyage began as fa-
vourably as the firfi. They had already-
icleared the Channel without any accident,
and were now in the middle of the Atlantic
Ocean : here they met with fuch contrary
winds for feveral days fuccefiively, that
they found themfelves driven a confiderable
way towards the wait of America. .

Here, my dear children, I have brought
you a large map, .which will fhew you
much better than a fmall one the courfe
which the {hip fliould have held, and that
which the wind obliged her to take. They
wanted to f'teer down all along this way, {0,
but becaufe they had a fide wind from that
quarter, they were driven, in lpite of them-
felves, towards this part, where you fee

C 3 America
1. A"

 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
  

5.2 -_vTHE'NEW
America lie. I will lay it down here. on
the table that we may all cafi our eyes upon
it whenever there 13 occafion.

One evening the fieerfman declared that;

heard the firing of guns from the fame quar; ' 1?
(er. All hands immediately haftened up~ 9
on desk, where they both faw the fire and
could difiine'tly hear the report of feveral-
guns. The captain examined his maps,
and found there was no land on that quar-
ref-within the di i'cance ofa hundred leagues ,
and they all unanimoufly concluded that if;
'what they {aw could be nothing elfe but V,
a {hip on fire. '
-, It~wa's' immediately refolved to afiifl the 1:, :
vefTel in dif'trefs, and they accordingly f'ceer- L3; 1 '
ed that way. In a very Ihort time their '
conjectures were verified; for they beheld Q i
a large {hip all in flames, and burning with
the greatef't fury. ' ,1,

The captain inflandy ordered five guns j
to be fired as a fignal to the poor people
who were on board the burning (hip, that -'., " .....x
. . This! ,.
'. Illi'uda 4.3
2111.>> a? A
. (v:

V 12......(irfi. .,
. , _ m}: fiiverwvvwm? .

     

/
4" "(01pr MEMMW'N

,-' . mgr-VJ"

~ avatar-r0. r-- m. \VTVIA'VAIJ'FVJ

' ROBINSON CRUSOE. 53'

help was at hand. Scarcely was this order
Put in execution, before they faw, with ter-
ror and afionifhment, the {hip which had

. been on fire blow up with a dreadful explo-

fion ; and immediately after. every thing
funk, and the fire was feen no more. It is
to be obferved, that the flames had, at length,
reached the powder room, and this was the
caufe of the {hip's blowing up.

Nobody could tell as yet what was be- . v

come of the poor people belonging to her.
There was a poflibility that they might-
haye taken to. their boats before the wife}
blew 11B , for which reafon the captain con-'-
tinued firing guns the whole night, in or--
der to inform them on what quarter the {hip
was that defired to alfil't them. He alfoj
ordered all the lanterns to be hung out,
that they might have a chance of {eeing the
lhip 1n the night time. '
At break of day they difcovered, by
means of their glafll's, two boats full,of
people, telling about at the mercy of the
waves. They could perceive that the
C 5 ' wind
wind was againl't them, but that they rowed 'i' 1
with all their force towards the ihip. Im-q " ,3.
mediately the captain ordered the colours
to be hoified as a fignal that he faW their {If
dif'trefs, and was ready to relieve them. At 1'1 1
the fame time the {hip made all the fail pof,-,SSi ""
fible towards them, and in the {pace of half 'ii
an hour happily came up with them.

There were fixty in the boats, men, we,
men, and children, who were all taken on
board. It was an affecting fcene to behold: }
the actions of thefe poor people when they 11 1f
' faw themfelves f0 happily delivered. Some l'h'
fobbed and wept for Joy, others lamented. "i;
ll? 1
as if their danger was bUtjuPt begun , fomc- 11-41112 '
jumped about upon the deck as if they had '
lofl: their wits, others were wringing their'
hands, and as pale as death; feveral of ~
them were laughing like mad people, and'
danced and ihouted for joy , others, on the:
centrary, flood flock- fiill as if fpeechleis
and infenfible, and could not utter a fingle
word.

* Sometimes one or two among} them fell, "*1 7i '
on their knees, lifted up their hands to Hea-
ven, and with a loud voice returned thanks

.10 God, whofe providence had fo miracu-

loufly faved them from perifhing._

Some of them again would {tart up, dance
about like children, tear their cloaths, cry
'and fall down in fainting fits, from which
they could with difficulty be recovered.
There was none of the Ihip's crew, thou gh

' ever. f0 hardened, that could help {bedding

tears at the fight of thefe poor people's ex- -
travagant behaviour.

Among them happened to be a young
priefi, who acted with more firmnefs and
dignity than any of the refi. As foon. as
he let his foot upon the deck, he fell upon
his face, and feemed to have loft all fenfe
and motion. The captain went to aflift
him, thinking that he had fwooned away;
but the clergyman calmly thanked him for
his good-nature, and faid, " Allow me firft
to return thanks to my Creator for our dc-
!iverance; I will afterwards endeavour to
{hew you how lively a fenfel entertain of

C 6 youryour extreme kindnefs to us." Upon thisi 1>>
the captain politely withdrew. '
The priel't remained a few minutes in this 1.;
pofiure of humble profiration; after which,- 1', 4r
rifmc t,chearfully, he went to the captain to
tefitify his gratitude to him for the civility?"
that he had fliewn to him and his people.
This done, he turned to his companions in
misfortune, and faid, " My dear friends,
'calm the agitation of your minds. T he'd}
Being who is fupremely good, hath vouch-U "'
fafed to firetch out a father's hand over you. "
You {hould lift up your hearts to him, and
thank him without delay for the unexpected":
prefervation of your lives." There were
feveral of them who acted in conformity to 1
his exhortations, and immediately began to A ,
return thanks to Heaven with fervour and J: '3
devotion. ' ..
After this the priei't gave the captain an- >> . '
account who they were, and what had hap-
pened to them.
The ihip that was burnt was a large
French merchantman, bound for Qiebec 1

rHere, ,'Rogrnson CRUSOE. 57

....Here, you fee; this fpot in America---
The fire broke out in the fail room, and
burned with fuch rapidity as baffled all
their endeavours to Prop it. They had
barely time to fire fome guns as fignals of
their dif'trefs, and then to take to their boats,
uncertain of the defliny that awaited them.
The mofi likely profpeet before them in
. that moment of horror was, that, upon the

leait fwell of the fea, the waves would fwal-
10w up them and their boats, or elfe that
they mutt perifh with hunger, as they had
been able to five nothing from the {hip
on fire but a'fmall quantity of bifcuit and
water, fufficient for a few days.

Charlotte. What occafion had they to
carry water with them 2 They were on the
water.

Mr. Bill. You forget, my dear Char-
lotte, that the water of the fea is falt and un-
fit for drinking. I

Charlotte. 50, f0 !

Mr. Bill. In this difirefsful fituation they~

heard the guns that were fired by the Eng-
liih
lifh fhip, and foon after obferved the light #-
of their lanterns. They paITed all that
long and difmal night between hope and
fear, exerting all their firength to get to the, .
ihip, but continually driven ba :k by the? 1'
winds and waves. At length, however, the
long-wifhed--for appearance of day put an ,
end totheir dif'trels ' ,1, -
Robinfon all this time had been filled with? 1',-
the mol'c dreadful reflections. " Heavens 1" "

1 :-

faid he to himfelf, "' ifthefe people, amongfi: '15,;
whom there are certainly many good and f
devout perfons, have fufi'ered f0 great diff 1;

trefs, what mufi not I expect, who haveff f: i '

afted with ['0 much ingratitude towards my ' .
poor parents. '" This thought lay heavy at . ,
his heart Pale and filent, like one whole

confcience is not good, he fat 1n :1 cornea}; ;

with his hands Clafped together, and {came-ft:- ', I
1y daring even to pray, becaufe he feared; '
left God would have no regard to his

prayers. - ' s {_
The people who were faved from the-f?
boats, and were almol'c exhaufted with fez--"Q:

tigue,

1,1 ;., raw"

6 i
3'.
5
g
5
if
i
i
l
i:

'R'oBINSON CRUSOE.| 5,9

tigue, had now taken fome refrefhment,
when their captain, holding a large purfe
full of money in his hand, came up to the
ihip's captain, and told him that whatever
moncy they had been able to fave from
their {hip was in that purfe, which he begged
him to accept as a flight mark of the gra-

' titude which they all entertained towards
. him for the prefervation of their lives.

' " God forbid," anfwered the captain,
" that I fhould accept your offers I I have
done no more than humanity required of
me, andI am convinced that you would
have done the fame thing if you had been
in our place, and we in yours."

In vaih did the Frenchman prefs him to
accept the purfe ; the captain ,perfif'ted in
refufing it, and begged him to fay no more
about it.--It was now debated where they
fhould land the people that had been faved..
To carry them to Guinea did not appear ad-
vifeable for two reafons. . In the firi't place,
why Iho'ild thofe poor people be obliged
to make f0 long a voyage to a country

whereworld? And befides there were not provr-l A
{ions enough aboard for [0 many people to L"
hold out until they {hould arrive at Gumea

them to Newfoundland, where they might! "
v have an opportunity of returning to France}? '
in fome of the {hips employed in the coding '~ '
fifhery. 41$ ' _
Harriet. What is that? 7
has told us about the cod fifh, how they". :
come down from the North feas to the very}? .
banks of Newfoundland, where people fiih I; .
for them and catch them 1n fuch quantities Ml ,'
Harriet. Oh, yes! now I recolleet. '3'"
Ric/3. Look here on the map: this 13%
Newfoundland up here, near to America, kg}
and thofe dotted {pots are the banks where 5'
they filh for the cod. vi" '-' l

r

Afr. Bill. T o Newfoundland, therefore,i:=
they bent their courfe 5 and as it happened

to, ,1 .wunx-wvw Imma- " v.1

_ their foremait and their bowfprit,' 'w

 

IROBilNSON CRUS'OE. 61

- to be the middle of the fifhing feafon, they

found feveral French vefl'els there, which
took on board the people of the {hip that
had blown up. Their gratitude to the Eng-
lifh captain was too great to be expreiTed in
words. '

As he had now, therefore, condueted
them to {hips of their own nation, he return-
ed with a favourable wind, in order to con-
tinue his own' voyage to the Coafi: 'of Gui-

' nea. The {hip cut the waves with the

{wiftnefs of a bird that wings its airy way
duuush rim fleies, and in a {hort time they
had failed fome hundred leagues. This

was what Robinfon Crufoe liked; things

'never could go too fail for him, as he was
. of a refilefs, unfettled difpofition.

Their courfe now was mof'tly directed to
the Southward. One day as they were fleet-
ing in that direction, they perceived a large
{hi3 making up towards. them. Prefently
after they heard them fire fome guns of

difirefs, and could difcern that they had loft

Edw.
 

T H' B (N E W; ,
Edw. Bowfprit? What is that? g:
Mr. Bill. Why, furely, you cannot-havegf"

forgot what that is. i "
Edw. Ah ! right! It is avlir ' -'

does not Ptand firaight up like the refl, bug}
comes out Hoping, {0,'from the fore-part3},
*3?

  
 
   
 
   
  
  
    

the flllp.' \ .

Mr. Bil/r Very well. They fleered the"
courfe towards the {hip that was in difitefsfi .
and when they were withinhearing 7'

the;

r

mity, and mufiperuh 11' you do -not5relieySS;h
us." i- x
_ The captain, therefore, afked themiigjaj
what confii'ced their dif'crefs; when one of
their number anfwered thus: , ,

" We are Englifhmen, bound forth; '3 '-
French Ifland ofMartinico"--.See, children
here it lies in the Welt Indies--9' W i
took in a cargo of cofi'ee there; and while; ' '
we were lying at anchor, and jufi .TC ';
dy to depart, .. ourcaptain and margiwithzef-u <<2'5: ' l .

' '""""'"-"N~9T.,~.;-gm-irWr-vyw.
' V A Z '- 4 v. n r

.RoBINSON CRUSOE. 63'

molt of the fhip's crew, went afhore one
day to get in a few things for the fhip's
"ufe; In their abfence, there arofe f0
violent a fiorm that our cable was broke,
and we were driven out from the harbour
into the open fea. The hurricane"

Gee. What is that, papa?

Mr. Bill. It is a kind of whirlwind occa-
fioned by many winds blowing from diffe-
rent quarters, one againlt the other.------

" The hurricane," continued he, " blew A
furioully three days and three nights. ..Wc.
loft our malts, and were driven fome
hundreds of leagues out to fea. Unfortu-
nately we are molt of us pafi'engers, with
but one feaman and a boy or two on
board to work the Ihip; fo that for nine
weeks we have been driven about at the mer-
cy of the winds and waves : all our provi~
lions are gone, and many of us are, at this
moment, dying with hunger."

'Immediately the good captain ordered

out his boat, took fame provifions, and went
aboard

 

(aaboard the fhip, accompanied. by, Ro
fon Crufoe. ' '

 
  
   
     
    
   
    
  

Rigs ;
' '1" ' ~ V .'V
bm._

3*"

of them could hardly fiand. But when ithe); Q
went into the cabin--Heavens ! whafilg'i'
mocking fpeetacle they beheld-l A ([33:
ther, with her fon and a young maid fervalit;
were firetched on the floor, and, to all ap.
pearan'ce, flar-ved to death. The mother,'-'-
already'quite Riff, was fitting on the ground; .
between two chairs tied together, with'her"
face leaning againl't one .of the planks :oftthel
Ihip'sfide. The maid fervant was firetc'hedzlf, ,
at her length 'befide her mifirefs, and had.
one of her arms clafped 'round the footfilbfg; ,
the table. As to the young man, he was
laid upon a bed, and had f'till in his mouth?- 1
a piece sofa leather glove, of which he.had5
gnawed away the greatefi part.
Harriet. Ohl papa, what a Ihoeking ac}:
count this is l', ' .35
Mr.'Bz'lZ. Right--I had forgot that-yon
{did not wifh to hear any thing melancholy.
-We]l, then, I will pafs by this I'tory,

111. Oh no 1 Oh no! :Dear Papa, 16'; us
,have the whole of it now.

Mr. Bill. As you pleafe. -I mull: tell
you then, in the firfi place, who thefe poor
people werethat lay firetched in this deplo-

rablemanner.
They were coming'pafl'engers in this 'fhip

-from America to England. The whole

.crew faid that they were very worthy peo-
ple. The mother was fo remarkably fond

_>>.of her fon, that Ihe refufed all manner of

nourifhment purpofely that her {on might
have {Omething to eat, and this excellent
young man had done the fame thing, in or-
,der to referve every thing for his mother.
'The faithful maid fervant Was more con~
cerned for her matter and mif'trefs than for
herfel'f.

They were thought to be dead, all
three, but, on examination, appeared to
have fome remains of life ; for, after "a few

, drops
' drops of broth had been forced into, i .
mouths, they began, by degrees, to' opeh?
their eyes. But the mother'was noweitog'f.
weak to {wallow any thing; and Ihe made?
figns that they ihould confine their anal;
tions to her fon. In efi'eet, Ihe 'CXpirecl 3%
few minutes after. in?

The other two were brought to then'w
{elves by the force of cordials, and as theyi
were in the flower of their age, the captaide/
by his attentive care, fucceeded in refiorihg :1
them to life. But when the young man;:

turned his eyes upon his,mother, and-,fiw'fi] .
that Ihe was dead, the {hock made him'fauy. 1
again into a fwoon, from which it was vefyii;

difficult to recover him. However, they?

were fortunate enough tobring him to'hisiii
fenfes again, and he was, in a lhort tithe;

perfeetly re-ef'tablifhed ; as was alfo the re};
vant maid. ' in?>>

     
 
    

    

trefs with all the provifions that he could???

pofiibly (pare: he ordered his carpentertofg
put up mafts for them in the room of thoi'efiS
that."

'\10-}; IN son 'CR"USOE. '67
that had been broken, and gave the crew -
prep" inflruetions for conveying them--

. . faves to the nearefi land, which was that of

the Madeira. Iflands. He bent his courfe
thither alfo, on purpofe to take in more pro-
vifions.

011? of thefe iflands, you 'know, is call-
ed Madeira, from which the weft take their
name. '

Henry. Yes, I know If, they belong to
the Portuguefe.

R2212. From them the fine Madeira wine
comes: does It not. P

Geo. And the fugar canes.

Mr. Bill. The fame C. At this ifland the
captain caf't anchor; and Robinfon went
alhore with him in the afternoon.

He could never fufficiently admire the "
beautiful profpeet which this fertile ifle af-
fords. As far as his eyes could fee, the
mountains were all covered with vines.
How his mouth watered at the fight of the
delicious grapes that hung on them! and

. how did he regale himfelf when the captain

paidThey underflood from lthofe who 663,- '
in the vineyards, that in making Wine they"
did not prefs the grapes here in a wine prei's,
as they do in other countries. ii; .

Geo. How then ? 3;

. Mr. Bill. They tumble the grapes into a}. ;
large tub, and then tread upon them
their feet, or bruife them with their el

Harriet. Oh fie! I {hall not like to

Madeira wine for the future. '

with
boWs .'

  
   
  
   
 
   
    
  
   
   

Charlotte. Why? V
Rick. Ah ! you were not here when pay?" if

pa fhewed us that wine is not good for-ii '
young people. ' If you were to know all thief
harm that it can do them ! i
' Charlotte. Is he in earnef'c, papa? y W '.

Mr. Bill. Yes, my dear; nothing can he
more true. Children that drink- wine 0

other ftrong liquors often, become wea
and filly. ' i
Charlotte. Gracious! I'll never drink
' wine any more.

Mr Bill. You will act very wifely, my
dear.

As the captain was obliged to flop here
fomc time to repair his {hip which had re-
ceived a little damage, poor Robinfon, at
the end of a few days, began to grow tired
of his lituation. His refilefs temper want~
ed fome change, and he wilhed to have
wings that he might fly all over the world
in as fhort a time as pofiible.

Juli at this interval arrived a Portugucfe
{hip that came from Lifbon, and was bound
,for Brazil, in South America.

Hemgy (pointing to tbe map). Is it not
this country here, belonging to the Portu-

guefe, and where f0 much gold-duff and pre.
cious {tones are found ? .

Mr. Bill. The Very fame.

Robinfon got acquainted with the cap-
tain of this fliip, and hearing him talk of
"golddufi and precious fion'es, he would
have given the world to make a voyage to

VOL. I. D Brazil,' draft or precious fl'o'nes, which are the {01.85:

.70 "THE NEW 151'
Brazi1, where he thought he {hould fill 111;!

  

pockets with diamonds. 5*" '

 
     
   
  
    
  
  
   
    

Edw. He did not know, I fuppofe, that% _

in that country nobody dares to gather gbldLEiT.

  

property of the king of Portugal. 1" ,jf

Mr. Bill. And the reafon that he did 150;; '
know was, becaufe when he was young he: ' '

would never learn any thing. - :51?

Finding, therefore, that the Portuguefcrg
:captain was difpofed to take him along Withiifi ,

him as one of his crew, and that the Eng-.11
lifh {hip would be obliged to flop at leaftr.

afbrtnight longer, he could not refifl: 111" '7 .

.defire of rambling. He, therefore, told hi'si'v' ,

.good friend, the Englifh captain, bluntly m

:that he was going to leave him, and ti
take a voyage to Brazil. The captain, who ,_
:had learned from Robinfon himfclf, a more, a
time before, that he was rambling thus about

the world without the knowledge or confent '4'": '

 

 

of his parents, was glad to get rid of him i i 1

He agreed to take Robinfon's venture"
which confified of toys and hardware, for?

theithe money that he had I'Cnt him in England,
.and gave him befides all manner of good
- advice.

Robinfon, therefore, went aboard the
Portuguefe; and now behold him failing
for Brazil. They paired pretty near the
ifland of Tenerifi'. '

Harriet. Where that high mountain is
to be feen, called the Peak of Tenerifl"
Ch: Papa 'P

Rick. Aye, aye, don't interrupt.

Mr. Bill. It was an admirable profpee't,
"even long after fun-fet in the evening, when
all the fea was covered with gloomy dark-
nefs, to fee the top of that mountain, one
, ' of the highef't in the whole world, thine
' with the rays of the fun as if it had been
all on fire. I

Some days after they {aw another fight upon
the (ca, which was very agreeable. A large
number of flying fiihes rofe upon the {ur-
face of the water. They glifiened like po-i
lifhcd filver, f0 that they threw forth a flrong
light from their bodies, as it were in rays.

D 2 Chariot".Charlotte. What, are there filhes that

z
I
;

 

. Ir. Bill. Yes, Charlotte; and I mini; ,4
a; on a certain day, you and I law one. ' l"- '

Geo. Ah, yes; that was When we'wetli'ii '__
'in town lafi Whitfuntide:

"above the furfaceof the water.
' .For feveral days fucceflivel 'b
was as fine as pollible; but all of a fudde~ '3' ' l
a violent hurricane arofe '
Eaft. The waves frothed
,tain high, tofiing the ve
This dreadful {form continued for fix daye
fuecefiively, and carried the {hip to far out '
of her way, that neither the? c

aptain nor"
any perfon on board knew where they were."

However, by their reckoning, they fuppofed'lfl"

that they could not be far from the C5?"

ribbee Iflan'ds. 'Theylieherea'bouts. '
The feventh morning,

break, one of the-failors I

and rofc mounfifi? 3
He! too and .fi-oil'qe? "'g"oBII'NSO'N cansoa. 73

crew into a fit of extravagant joy, by crying
_ out from the mafl: head, Land !

Mrs.Bz'l/. This call'comes very feafom
a'blv, for {upper is almoft ready in the next-
room. Tomorrow we fh'all hear the refh

cw. O dear" mama, only let us hear
how they landed, and what happened'to-
them afterwards. I fliOuld be cc'mren'ted
with a bit of dry bread; if' papa w0uld but
go on.

1%,. Bill. Well, my dear, as your ma:
ma only fays that {upper is aZmo/z' ready,
perhaps there may be a few minutes to
fpare. If {he will indulge you until {up-
'per is quite ready, I am content.

.Mrr. Bill. I have no objeetion: fo that
you may go on until I call" you, which.
{hall be when every thing is perfeetly

'- ready.

All tbe cbildren. Oh! that will do. That
is Charming! .

Mr. Bill. To proceed, therefore, with
my l'tory:

The whole crew haf'tened upon deck to

D 3 ~". fee[1 Ice whatvland this was;

 
        
       
  
 
  

bacl; wards. , .
Ric/2. What was the matter? 1% ,'
Mr. Bill. The [hip had run upon a landjg'fi'

bank, and fiuck fat't as fuddenly as PS1123:

had been nailed to the finot. A
foaming waves dafhed over the
fuch violence, that they' were all '
take refuge in the cabin and betw
for fear of being carried overboard. , g. '

Nothing was now to be heard amongfl: the};
crew but lamentable cries, groans, and lighs'fig | '
that would have foftened a heart of Rome"

Some were praying, others wept aloud. n;
fome tore their hair like_ '1: O'BINS'ON CR'US'GE.- 75?
. - 113i? had fplit.' V Thefe dreadful tidings--
brought them all to new life. The)! {33
hafiily upon deck, lowered the boat as fall:
as pomble, and all jumped into it with the
moi'r precipitate haf't'e.,
But there were now fo many people in=
the boat, that its fides were fearcely fourj
~ inches" above the water, The land was fiilll
far: off}. and the f'torm fo violent, that
every: one thought it impoflible 120416th <<the
more. Neverthelefs, they exerted ;th'e'ir~
whole .flrength in} rowing, and fortunately
the wind drove them towardslland, 5 All t
once they beheld a wave, mountain h . .
,tolling towards the boat. , ., .1
At this dreadful fightthe whole cre.w._fSSt
.motionlefs, and dropped their cars. The hug
wave firikes the boat, overfets it, and alliarp
at once fwallowed up in the enraged deep!~
Here Mr. Billingfley 'made- a flop ; the
whole company remained filent,:and many
of them could not help lighing withcgnrt-
paflion for the fate of the poor .feamen... At
length Mrs. Billingfley, arrivingvvwith __th;
I D 4. news
news'that {Upper waS'ready, put an and"
?' thefcmclancholy ideas. '
r .

 

ZGEORGE. Degr papa, is poor Robinibzi ' .
Crufoc loft for good? Is he dead? {53: 5

Mr. Bill. We left him 13?: night in the? ,
Taft imminent danger of lofing his lifej': '
#he boat being overfet. 3' '' j <<mafia-mun "3-w-- '

   
 
  

.4. '
%'I/,: I: , u

   
  

W
' and feeing himfelf, contrary to all expeela--
tion, upon dry ground, he exerted the lai}
efforts of his firength to gain the top of the
beach.

He reached it at length, but the mo--
ment that he arrived at this fpot of fafety
he fainted away with fatigue, and remamed
a long time without fenfe or motion.

, When he recovered, he opened his

eyes and looked round. Heavens, what

a proipeet! The fhip, the boat, his com:

panions, all loft! There was nothing
to be'feen but a few broken planks, which

the waves drove towards the (bore, 41--15-

alone was faved out of the whole jhi'pfs
company. '

~ Trembling at once with fear andjoy, he

fell upon his knees, lifted up his hands to- _ _
wards Heaven, a,nd while he {heal- a flood of .

tears, returned thanks aloud to the Ma---
ker of Heaven andEarth. for his miraculous: -

prefervation.

Rich. But, papa, why did GodAkmgfity _

D 6 . five78 ' T_'H E N 1-: w ,
{ave Robinfon Crufoe alone, and fuffer
the reft to perilh? , I r
Mr. Bill. My dear Richard, are you al.-
ways able to difcover the reafons'why we i. 7
, "who are f0 much'older than you, and who it; ,
love you tenderly, aft towards you in' this "in.
manner or that? i i
_ Rick. No. ;.. .4 .
, 3: Mr. Bill. Lately, for inflance, when the
3day was To fine, and we had all f0 great a.'
'f'ancy to go on a nutting party, what did I
do? i _ I V
Ric/9. I have not forgot it; Poor Ed-
Wa'rd was obliged to Ray at home and keep
' houife, ahd the tell of us were forced to go
to Richmo'hd, and not on the nutting party. .3 .
" Mr. Bill; But why was I {o cruel to ' i '
jioor EdWard, not to let him go with us P i
' E'a'w. Ah, 1 know the reafon of that. '
Titties came prefently after, and took me
'E-o" Laay Cafiletoh's. Frederick, my old '
'playfellow, was jufi come home from fchool,
Eih'd7'begged his mama to fend for 'me.
Mr. Bill. And was; not that better thigh
to go a nutting?

Edw. Oh yes, a hundred times. 7

Mr. Bill. I had fint word before to Lady
Cafileton, that you {hould go and fee her
fon, as {he req'uefied; and therefore it was
that I ordered you to Ptaylat home. And,
Richard, what did you 'meet at Richmond?

Rick. I met you there, papa, and my 7
mama. You were there before me.

Mr. Bill. That too I knew 5 and, therea
fore, I made you for that time go to Rich-
mond, and not on the nutting party. My
intention in all this never once entered your
heads, for you did not know my reafons.
But why did not I tell you thefe reafons?

Rich. That you might afford us an un-
expee'ted' pleafure. .

' Mr. Bill. Juli f0. Well, my dear chil-
dren, do you not think that our heavenly
iFather loves his children, that is to fay, all '
mankind, as much as we love you?

Geo. Certainly, and more. .

Mr. Bill. And have you not learnt long

; ago,is really for our own advantage.

Rick. ._Yes; I believe it. God has a
khowledge that is without bounds, and,
therefore, knows every thing that will come
to pafs; a knowledge that we have no.
idea ofl

Mr. Bill. Since, therefore,
mankind as his children
time fo wife that he

;,

 

God 19w; all

, and IS at the fame '
alone knows what is ._

Mr. Bill. But are we always able to dif-l

cover the reafons why God doth any aeh'ons
that afi'ee'ts us in one particular manner
ther than in another s"
Rich. To difcover them
as much knowled
hlmklfi

Mr.

ray. :'

a we fhould hane
ge and wifdom as God 1 - .

Bill. Wen, my dear Richard, are_' 'a

ROBINSON cRU'son.~ 81

/ you wifh now to repeat the quefiion that
you alked me jufi now?

- Ric/J. What queflion ?
Mr. Bill. Why the Supreme Difpofer of

things faved only Robinfon Crufoe, and fuf.
feted the tell to perifh. P {

Rich. No.
Mr. Bill. Why not P

Ric/9.Becaufe1 fee now that it was an
unreafonable queflion. '

Mr. Bill. Unreafonablel How?

Rich. Becaufe our Maker knows very
well why he does any action, and we are
not capable of knowing it.

Mr. Bill. The Rulero of the Univerfe had
therefore reafons which were wife, excel~
lent, and worthy of himfelf', {or fufi'ering
the whole crew to perifh, and faving only
the life of Robinfon Crufoe. But thefe
reafons are infcrutable to us. We may, in-
deed, carry our conjectures to a certain
length, but we ought never to flatter our--
felves that we have hit upon the truth. '

For infianec, infinite wifdom might forefee
: that
 
  
      
    
  
 
  
 
  

82 .THE NEW.
that a longer life-would be more hurtfui

than advantageous to thofe whom he fuf- "
fered to perifh

: they might fall into great? i
en become wicked: for that}: '
reafon, perhaps, he removed them fromj-i 3.

ondueted their immortal ' '

     

realon or explain the {Eeming

fay' to yourfelf, " God knows .2
convinced that his difpenfations of good
I and evil are ever intended to render us better
than we are ; I, for my part, will therefore
labour to- become f0, and certainly God
will blefs and reward my endeavours." . ~

Hanoi. Did Robinfon think fo upon that
occafion ?

Mr. Bill. Yes, then when he had been
in lo great danger of perm-ring, and law
himfelf cut off from all the world,.fhen.he
felt fincerely how unjut't and-blameable his'

condue't had been 5 then he prayed to Hea- ' '

ven, on his knees, for pardon; and then he
took the I'tedfafl: refolution of amending his
life, and of never doing-any aetion con- ,
trary tothe warning of his, confcience.-

Etlzo. ' But. what did he do after that?

Mr. Bill. When the joy that he felt on
his happy deliverance had a little fubfided,
he began to reflect on his fituation. He
looked about him, but could fee nothing
except trees and thickets; he coiJld not

perceive, on any lide, the lealt mark that
the country was inhabited.

This .. ' ,3;
M.>>

 
   
   
     
 
  
    
   
  

'T his was a dreadful neceflity impofed}.
upon him; to- live all alone in a firange: ._
country I But his anxiety was fiiil more dread--. '
fully increafe'd whenithis refleetion- occurred}.
to him, Vihat,,ifthere fhould be wild beaft deg

or favages here, {'0 that If {hould not be abl
to live a moment in fafety !-" '

Clmrla-tte. What are favages, papa? .
Riel). Sig/ages (are wild..men.. Have '1'
you never heard'talk of them, Charlotte .
In countries, a great, great .way'ofl' from .
this,_sthereare~men nearly as wild as vbeafis... 2' '
Geo; That- go alhuoitnajked--What do
you think. pf. that '?- ' '

I Hang. Aye, and know {caret-any thinggfif .
in' the world. They. cannot build themme-f f
{Elva-Sho'lfcs, nor; make gardens, nor foxy

and plantras we do.

Harriet; Andthey'cezit rawmeat and rziw
'filht lheard my. papa tell of them--Did: _' '
not you, papa .97 _ e ,' '

Rich. And would you think it? Thefe -
poor creatures are>> entirely ignorant _.of theira; 1Maker, beca'ufe they never had any perfon
t0 infiruet them. ' I

Henry It is for that reafon too that they
are fo barbarous. You would hardly be--'-
lieve that fome of them eat human fielh..

Charlene. Oh !' what wicked, men !.

Mr. Bill. What poor unhappy men-l
you lhould fay. Alas ! thefe poor. people are '
fufficiently to-be pitied, that they have been.
brought up in this ignorance, and? live like
brutes. '

Charlotte. Do they ever come here?

My. Bill. No :' the countries where thefe- '
unfortunate people live areifo far ofl", that
they never come here. Their number alfo:
grows lefs every day, becaufe' other civilized
men, who come amongft them, endeavour
to infiruet and civilize them. "

Henry. Were there, then, any of thofe fa.
vages in the country where Robinfon Cru-
foe was thrown by the [term ?_

M71317]. That he could not tell him--
felf as yet. But having formerly heard that
there were favages in the iflands in this part

ofreprefented to him afrelh'the tranfae'tioti
of the pregeding day

'multuous dreams,

._; i

. ~Difhxrbed with to;
he fancied he'flill {av}

the waves fwelling round him, andithe Ihip
finking., '

gined himfelftranlborted into the prefencei
of his parents :

with forrow an

J'.

they appeared overwhelmedii'
d difirefs for the 1013 of theige -'
beloved {on : they figh'ed, wept; lifted ' a
- ' ~ 3.1 ,
up their hands to Heaven, ..
' defl'itute of-comf'ort.

, .

32% t
in! "
,.C/' J - .

brace his parents,
the branches, and fe

Harriet. Oh poor Robinfoh!
Geo. '1 fuppofe he is killed now.. 3 .- 3.. ..
Illr. Bill. Fortunately for him, he had not: s'TR ,0 1; ~I N's on :c :'RWU'S' o E. 89'
Ehardly felt, in compari-l'on' to the anguifh
.that'hevhad {Offered in- the COnfliets "of his
dream, and which {till agitated his 'whole'
.body. He,-th'erefore, climbed up once more
into the tree, and lay there quietly until
fun- rife.

He then began earnef'tly to confider how
?he fhould procure him-{elf food. He had
,no fort-of vietuals fuch as we u'fe in this
part of the' World, neither bread, nor meat;
inor vegetables, nor milk; and, had heeven
been mafier of a joint of meat, he had
neither fire, nor fpit to wait it on, nor pot
to boil it in. All the trees that he had'
feen hitherto were logwooddrees, which
.11 never hear any fruit. - '

Rich. What fort of trees are they, p'a-
Pa P .

Mr. Bill. 'Thefe are trees the wood of
which 1s ofcdnfidcrable ufe m dying. They
grow in fome countries of South America, ,
and rnuch of the logwood IS brought to
Europe. When it is boiled, the water

' turns90 ran NEW 5'

.' turnsof' a rcddifh black colour, and dyer: "l1 i
make'ufe of it to give a lh'ade to Other co-
JOUTS.?& ' ~ ' ' . .

But to return to Robinlbn Crul'oe. __

Still uncertain what he {hould do, he
came down from the tree. As he had eaten
nothing the day before, hunger began to
be exceedingly troublefome to him. He ..
rambled about for feveral miles, but found ' .
nothing, except grafs, and treesthat bore not

fiuit. 7 _ 5

I t was impoHible now to. add tohis dil'tnefst:

" Mufi I, then, peril}: with hungeratlafll";

cried, he, [ebbing and looking .up towards-

Heaven. However, neceflity .reanimated'

him with freih firength to go and fearch ,9. .-,

carefully along the fhore for Ibmething eat- 1;";-

able.

But in - vain: nothing'but logwood. H

trees and Indian willow; nothing but grafs #5 ?
and'fand. At length, fatigued, weakened, *2" ,

rand exhaufled, he threw himfelf down with
wil'hed that he had perifhed in the waves of
the ['63. rather than be preferved only to die
amiferable death by hunger.

He thought of nothing, therefore, now
but of waiting in this forlorn fituation for
the flow and dreadful approach of death;
when, turning by chance, he faw a cormo>>
rant devouring a fifh that he had taken.
Immediately he recollee'ted that he had --
fomewhere read the following 'words: '

The Lord, who feeds With bounteous hand
The feather'd tenants of the air,

Will furely over MAN expand
The wings of his paternal care.

  

He then reproached himfelf with having
put {0 little truf't 1n Divine Providence, and,

rifing hafiily, he determined to walk as far
as ever his firength would permit him. He
fliaped his courfe, therefore, along the fh'ore,
and looked narrowly about to difeover, if
poflible, fomething that might ferve him for
food.

At length he perceived a number ofoyfter

{hells lying on the Ihorc. He ran eagerly
VOL. I: E to->>592 T H! 'N E W

   
   
    
   
  
  
   
 
 
 

.fully examined all round it, hoping to find'
oyfiers thereabouts. He did find fome, and:
,his joy was inexpreflible.
Ric/a. Are there oyfters on land then ? -
Mr. Bill. Why no, not properly. on
.the contrary, they belong to the feet and live
;in it. There they fatten themfelves to"
rocks, one upon another, in immenfe quark].
:tities. Such a heap of them is..called a bed'
of oyfiers. Now, the waves, in dafhingi
againl't this, .loofens feveral of the oyfiers,"
and the tide carries them towards the fhore

 

.where it is then dry. ,3 v '
Charlotte. Youfity .when the tide ebbsj'i: :
papa, what is that?
Harriet. What, don't you know that P It";
is when the water that-- was f0 high before,'
_'runs back, andgrows quite Ihallow. I
C/mrlotte. What water? _ 1, 2 ,1.
Harriet. Why, the {ca water, or a riverir i
like our Thames, where the tide comes up,

MK.
Mr. Mered. Charlotte, make your bro-
ther Richard explain that to you. He will
be able to give you a clear idea of it.

Riel). Who, I 9 Well, I will do my
belt. Have you never obferved that the
water of the Thames rifes fometimes pretty
high at the bottom of our garden 3 and then,
after a while, falls back and leaves the
ground dry; f0 that one can walk where it
was but a little time before covered with
water. . _

Charlotte. Oh ! yes, now I' remember to
have feen it.

Ricla. Well, when the water rifes in that
manner, _ it is called the tide, or the flowing
of the tide ; and when it falls back and leaves
the ground dry, it is called the ebb. Thus
we fay the tide ebbs and flows. .

Mr. Bill. Befidcs this, you mull know,
my dear Charlotte, that, in the courfe of
four and twenty hours, the water of the Tea.
rifes thus twice, and falls twice. ' It conti~
nues to rife for a little more than fix hours,
and then to link for a little more than fix

E 2 , hours.called' the time of the flow, and the hours:
during which it falls,-are called the time 6f?"
the ebb. Do you underltand it now 5"

Charlotte. 'Ye55'but why does the {ca 31.4% ;
ways rife f0? ' ' :

 

papa go on.
Mr. Bill. Another time, Charlotte, '1
will tell you more upon this fubjeet. 3
Robinfon was almofl: out of his wits for. .,
joy at having found fomething to appeafe '
his raging hunger. ' The oyfiers/that he i I
found did not, it is true, ferve to fill his
belly; but he was fatisfied with having

found fomething which barely made him for- '
' .get his hunger as it were.

am 3:

..

a

"r

|

s. 5
"3:12:54:

His greatel't uneafinefs was next to know f i
where he fhould dwell for the future,
free from all dread offavages and wild beafis.
His firI'c bed had been f0 inconvenie

>'-};'C/'~

nt, shat -
R o B 1-5: so-N c R us'o mgr-"99
he Could not think of his condition without
ihuddering, if he fhould be obliged to pals
all his nights 1n the fame manner.

Geo. Oh. ' I know very well what I would
have done.

Mr. Bill. Well, what would you have

' done? Inform us

Geo. In the firf't place, I would have
built a houfe, with walls as thick as that,

>> and with iron gates-f-fo {trong' l--And then

I would have made a ditch all round with a
drawbridge, and this drawbridge I would
have lifted up every night, and then the fa-
vages mui't be pretty cunning if they could
have done me any harm while I was afleep.
Mr. Bill. Here is fine talking! It is a pity
that you had not been there. You would
have been able to give poor Robinfon ex-
cellent advice--But--anfwerme one thing
--Have you ever carefully obferved how car-
penters and mafons ' go about building a

houfe ?
Geo. Oh! yes, many a time. The ma-
{on begins with preparing the lime and
E 3 mixingmixing {and with it.
fi'one upon another, and ,, L
puts mortar between them to keep them}:

firmly together. Next the carpenters, with?
their, hatchets, cut: out the rafters and placeff'"

them carefully. Then, by means of 33% l
pully, they raife the beams to the heightir'
of the wall and join them. Afterwards;
they law the boards for the floors, and make

iaths, which they nail to the rafters in order ?
to place the tiles. And then-'-. ~

  
    
   
   
   
  

with his trowel???"

.4; ..

lime, and a trowel, and bricks 5 or elfe
fiones, which mufi' firfl: be cut into form: J " .
and carpenters have occafion for hatchets, if;
and faws, and chifl'els, and nails, and ham-
mers. Where would you have Found all"?
thefe, if you had been in Robinfon's place? 5-"
Geo. Why--really I don't know. '
Mr. Bill. N either'did Robinfon, and for r
that reafon he was obliged to give up the

feheme of building a real houfe. He had

not9>> 3 '

R'O BiliNSON' C'RU'SOE'. 97
not a fingle tool in the world: nothing.
but his two hands, and with thefe alone peo-
1316 do not build fuch houfes as we live in.

Edw. Why, then, he had Only to make
himfelf a-=little but with the branches that
he could have plucked from the trees. '

Mr. 'Bi-llnAnd could a little-hut, made of
branches, have defended him from ferpents,
wolves, tigers, panthers, ,lions, and other
fierce beal'ts of prey ?

Ric/a. Ah! poor RObinfo'n, how will You
manage in this diftrefsful fituation?

' Edit). Could he {hoot P

Mr. Bill. .Yes, if he had only a gun, with
powder and ball ; . but once more I tell
you, the poor ladhad nothing--abfolutely '
nothing but his two hands to depend on,

When he viewed his fituation, and faw
that all refources failed 'him, he fell again _
into his former defpondency. " To what
purpofe," faid he within himfelf, " have I
hitherto efcaped perifhing with hunger, fince,
perhaps, this very night wild beal'cs will tear
me to pieces 3'" '

E4. HeHe even fancied (fuch is the force of the :5
imagination) that a furious tiger was beforeig .
him, With its dreadful jaws open and ready?
to devour him. Thinking that the tiger;
had him already by the throat, he cried outfi'd"
" Oh E my poor father and mother," and fell}i

to the ground half dead

' After having lai'n there fame time in an
agony of grief and del'pair, he recollee'ted a
hymn which he had heard his excellent tho.

the: fometimes fing, when {he had any pref-- 2
fure of afliietion on her mind.
thus: '

if

He who beneath Heaven's guardian wing
_Hath wifely fixt his place,

May to his foul thus freely ling, I
When for-rows come apace:

In God's eternal Providence
My hope redemption fees :
left with {0 pow'rful a defence,
My foul, be thou at cafe.

The refleetions contained in thefe words '
firengthened him confiderably.

Two or
three times he repeated

thefe beautiful linesROB I'N So'N_'cRU SOE. 99
to himfelf with much devotion ; after which
be exerted his {irength to rife, and went up-
on another fearch, endeavouring to find fome
cave that might ferve him as a fafe retreat.

But in what part of the world. was he .9
In Scuth,America, or elfewhere? Was he
upon an ifland or a continent? This was "
more than he could tell as yet him'felf; but
he {aw a pretty high hill aria. difiance, and
7_ he walked towards it.

' As he went along, he made this forrow-~
ful difcovery, that the whole country pray:
duced nothing but grafs and trees which bore
no fruit. It is eal'y to imagine what gloomy
ideas a fight like this-infpired him with.

He climbed up, with fome difficulty, to
the top of the hill, which was pretty high,
and from which he could fee all round him
to the 'diflance of feveral leagues. To his '
great mortification, he perceived that he was
really in an ifland, within fight of which
there appeared no other land, except twom'
three fmall iflands that rofe out of the fea at
the dii'tance of a few leagues.

E 5 V f'Poor100 'r H E N'E W" >> a"

" Poor, unhappy wretch that I am i"

cried he, lifting flowly his trembling hands"?f
towards Heaven: " I am,:'then, feparated,'i;.
cut of? from all men, and have no hopes of '2'
being ever delivered from this lavage place. Y=
Oh ! my poor afflicted parents, I Ihall, then, '15 mi

never fee you more! I {hall never be able to' '

all: you forgivenefs {or my folly! NCVerf

. {hall I hear the fweet voice of a friend, of a "3"" '
man l--But I deferve my fate," continued ll '
he. "Oh Lord, thou art juftin all thy ways ! 1'55
I fliould but deceive myfelf were I to com- .
plain. It is I myfelt~ that have made my lot -
f0 miferable." ,

In this mournf'ul filence he continued on n
the fpot, with his eyes fixed, as it' were, to :53}? l
the ground. " Cut ofl" from God and man!"
was the only reflection that poITeITed his "1"-
his mind. At length, however, thoughts
more rational and confoling came to his
relief. He threw himfelf upon his knees, _
lifted up his heart to Heaven, promifed to:

be patient and refigned to his dii'trefl'es, and i

prayed for firength to fupport, them.

_ - . . Harriet.

<<a, tram
Harriet. It was a good thing, however,
that Robinfon Could fay his prayers in the
time of diff-refs.

Mr. Bill. Certainly it was happy for him.
What would have become of him, then, if he
had not known that God, is the Fatherof
all mankind; that he is fupremely good,
almighty, and omniprefent !' He would
have funkunder his terror and defpair, if he
had not formerly been taught thefe great
and comfortable truths. But the idea of ,
his heavenly Father's goodnefs gave him
conl'tantly frefh courage and confolation, _
whenever his difirefl'es were upon the point
of overpowering his refolution.

He now found himfelf much firengthem
ed, and began to travel round the hill. All
his fearch was, for a long time, ufelefs . he
could find no place where he might be in
fafety. At length, he came to a little hill,
which, in front, was as fieep as a wall. In
examining this fpot attenti' ely, he found:
place that feemed to be hollowed m under the

hill, wi; h a pretty narrow entrance to it.
E 6 g If
If he had hadla pickaite,
other rools, it would have been

ter to hollow out a complete dwelling under?
the rock, which was partly done by nature :3
but he had none of thefe tools. The quell? ' 5-

tion was, then, how he flrould [apply the 3
yvant of them. _ _ _

" After puzzling his head a long time, hef'i
began to refleet in this manner: " Some"
" of the trees that l fee here are like the 1
willows of my country, which are eafi-lyr "
rzranfplanted. I will pluck up a number of";~ 2'
thefe young trees, and here, before this hole, ': :.. 1'
TI. will plant them clofe together, {0 that the ii:- I 2'
may form a fort of wall. When they grow " "
up pretty'high, I flmall be able to fleep i? 3;}
within this enclofure as fafely as if I was in 1
a houfe; for behind, the fieep wall of this
rock will fecureme, 'and in front, as well as
_on both fides, the clofe row of trees will '.
keep ofi" all danger." fix!
' This happy thought pleafed him very 57'" '
much, and he immediate]
it in execution.

   
   
    
      
    
  
  

an eafy mate?

 

J

y {et about putting
His joy wasflill greater .. _
when " '
i when he faw, not far from. that (pot, a beau-

tiful and clear fpring bubbling out from the
fide of the hill. ,He hafiened to quench his
thirl't at it, being extremely dry, as he had
run about a good deal during the hottefi
time of the day.
Geo. Was it {0 very warm, then, in the
ifland P '
Mr. Bill. Yes, you may eafily imagine
that it was warm.- Look here, (pointing to
the map,) this is the coafi of South Ame-
rica, near which, probably, was fituated the
ifland on which Robinfon was cafl away.
Now, you fee, this part is not far from the
equinoetial' line, where the fun is fometimeS'
directly over people's heads. It is, there-
fore, natural to fuppofe that all that quartet
muf't be extremely hot. . _
Robinfon now fet about plucking up out
of the ground, with his hands, fome of the
young trees that I mentioned before, which he
effected with a great deal of trouble, and car-
ried them to the place that he' had defiined for

' his dwelling. Here again he was obligedjo v

fc'ratch'
{cratch a hole in the ground for each of his;
_ trees, and as this work; went on but Very'

flowiy, the day clofed by the time that he
had fixed five or fix of them.

After he had finifhed his W
obliged him to walk down tow
in order to fearch for oyflers; but, unforfi
t-unately, the tide was up, f0 that he found'e
none, and was forced for this time to go to j?
bed fupperkfs. But where was his bed 9-- _

, ,I
"b
2.,

ork, hunger? '

ards the flmref '

 

lcation, tori};

lie every night in the tree in which he had 1?:
lain the lafl night. '
' But,

- fame accident'as had then difiurbed him, he 1' " 7

x.

. . g "
took his garters, txed them round hrs body, "'

and fafiened himielf tightly to the branches 1;:
on which he lay; and

then, recommending
himfelf to his Creator, he fell afleep.

Ric/a. That Was wifely
himfelf f0.
ROBINSON CRUSOE. I05.
which we fhould not know but for her.

, '* . It is to this intent that our Creator hath
if formed us, and this earth that we inhabit, in
45;, {uch a manner, that we have different wants,
g; ' which we cannot fatisfy unlefs by the ma-
il" nifold efforts of invention. If ever we are

matters of good fenfe and an active under-
' flanding, it is to thefe wants that we are in-
debted for them : for if larks fell down out '
of the air into our mouths ready roafled;
if houfes, beds, cloaths, vietuals, and every
thing elfe necefl'ary for the prefervation and
comfort of our lives, grew up of their own

 

o

l

1

'I accord out of the ground or on the tops of ,l
:- trees, quite ready and prepared to our hand; 1
it, certainly We fluould do nothing elfe but eat, ,'
f' drink, and fleep, and be as flupid as brutes j
.as long as we lived. 1,

'f \ l
i l i
a, j
5: " \ 1
fig; FOURTH . 1
PS' ,_ f

.; a , i"i.
.
,1
,2,
15..
i

106 THE NtEW

FOURTH EVENING. ,1

 
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

MR 3111- W EUR11, my dears, where dldf
we leave Robinfon Crufoe laft night 3

Rick. We left him like a bird perched 11; <

a tree to take his night 5 ref't.
Mr. .821]. Very well. To proceed, then, i;
'With his fiory: Every thing went on that ill"
night as well as pofiible , hob had no fall, and
flept roundly till morning. .
At break of day, the firl't thing that he "
did was to fet off towards the ihore to look "ii '
for oyfiers, intending afterwards to return to \
his work. He happened this time to go
another way, and, as he walked along, was A
overjoyed to find a tree which bore large fruit. 1'"
It 15 triJe, he did not as yet know what they
might be ; but he hoped to find them good
for eating, and therefore, to make a trial, he
knocked down one. ' 1
It was a large nut, fornething of a tri~'~
angular form, and as big as a young child's 5
head. The outward rind was compofed of 4*

' filaments,fiagfid'u.' 11.1., 4.15
.44 : ' ..

11"}.13114111355'3 1n
. .. 131:. w. .. . . 7..

         

    

  

.. . M .._g=_=_ .. . ,.
_ V. .L Emu Ks. '.SS.. J

      

.,. 45 E ,filaments, or flringy folds, as if made of
hemp. The fecond hulk or {hell was, on
the contrary, almofl as hard as the ihell of a
tortoife, and Robinfon foon perceived that it
would ferve him for a cup. This {hell is
{0 large that it {ometimes affords- a place of
retirement to the little long-tailed American
monkey. The fruit within was a fort of
juicy kernel, which tailed like a fweet a1-
mond, and in the middle of this kernel,
which was hollow, he found a molt delicious

and finely flavoured milk. This was a mofi: '

agreeable treat for poor Robinfon,' who was
half flarved.

His empty fiomach was not fatisfied with
one nut, he knocked down a fecond, which
he ate with equal. greedinefs. His joy at
having difcovered this excellent fruit brought
tears into his eyes, and he looked up to Hea-
ven with {enfations of the warmefl gratitude.

The tree was tolerably large, and quite
hung with fruit; but alas! it was the only
one in the whole ifland,

Geo.
Geo. What fort of a tree might it 136,":
then P W" e have none fuch here; '
:Mr. Bill. It was a cocoa-nut tree>> Th
grow chiefly tbe're, in the Eaf't In

. here, in the South Sea iflands. , _.
fome of them found in the VVefl Indies; 1m?
deed, they are pretty common there. .

ThonghRobinfon's hunger was now [3% i,

' tisfied, yet he did not omit going dow
the ihore, to fee what fhew the oyflers made
that day. He found a few, indeed, but far
too few to afford him a hearty meal. He

had, therefore, great reafon to thank Godgffi
for having this day furnil'hed him with ano- ' "

ther fort'of food; and he. did [0 with a heart 3 "
_ full. of gratitude. "

He carried home for his din

.9!" ,_ .

 

ner the oy-flers V "
t chearfully about

He. had picked up on the beach a large ,3

I file", which ferved him inflead of >> a fpade, " '
and advanced: his work confiderably. A '
little after he difcovercd a plant,.the {talk of

whichR o 3 IN s'-o-N -c R as o E. 109"
which was full of threads, like flax or hemp
At another time he would not have paid

any attention to fuch matters, but,.at prefent,
nothing was indifferent to him. "He-exa-

"mined every thing, and refleete'd on every

thing, in order, if pollible, to apply every
thing to advantage.

Having fome hopes that this plant might.
be ufed in the fame manner'as flax or hemp,
he plucked a quantity of it, tied it 'up in
{mall bundles, and left them to {oak in wae
ter. Having obferved, at the end of a few
days, that the thick outfide {kin was fuf-
ficiently foftened by the water, he drew out
the bundles, and fpread them thinly on the
grafs before the fun, the fialks being now
quite loft. As foon as ever they were pro-
perly dried, he made a trial 1' Pith a large
flick to pound them and break them like'
flax, and he fueceeded.

Immediately he endeavoured to turn the
firingy part- of thefe plants to ufe by making
fmall cords of it. It is true they were not
{o well twifled as thofe made by our rope-

makers'bouring fpringa which he took up in his-W

  
    
 
   
    
 
   
    
  
  

110 THE NEW

makers here, for he had neither wheel nor a5 _.
fecond perfon to aflif't him. However, they it iii:
were firong enough to fatten his great fhellfliSS "
to the end of a flick, by which means he? 13"
was now mal'ter of an infiru'ment not much; '
unlike a gardener' s fpade. ', ,

He then went on with his work very di--'j
ligently, and planted tree clofe by tree until 3
he had completely palifaded the fpace thatjtfi I
was before his intended dwelling. But, as $1.
one fingle row of a tree fo very pliable didgvg'
not feem a fufi'icient wall of defence, he"?
fpared no labour, but planted a fecond ro
round the firfi. He then interwove the. ' '
branches of the two rows together, and, at:(
lafi, hit upon the idea of filling up with *
earth the difiance that was between them i
This completed his wall, f0 folid that it?
wonld have required a confiderable force to?
puih it in. '

Every morning and evening he watered his '5
little plantation with water from the neigh '

 

cocoa ihell, and he had very foon the fa
tisfaetion-'RVO'B I 'N S O'N UK US O'E. 'I'I'I
(tisfae'tion of feeing his young trees fprout- up
,and fiourifh [0 as to afford a-chatming View
.to the eye. \ ' '

When he had :almofi: entirely finiflied his
shedge, he fpent a whole day in making a
,number of thick cords, out of which he
formed, as well as he -.could, a laddet of
ropes. '

116720? What was that-for?

Mr. Bill. I'll tell you. His defign .was
to make no door to his habitation, but to plant
more trees, and fo flop up even the opening
'that remained. '

Henry. How, then, was he 'to go in and
>>out?

Mr. Bill. By the alfifiance of his ladder
of ropes. I

Itis -to be obferVed,'that the rock which
himg oVethis habitation was about as high
as the {econd fiory of. a houfe, and on .the
top of the rock was a tree. To this he fafir-
ened his ladder of ropes, and let it hang
down to the ground. -He then tried to

. climb up by it, and fueceeded to admiration.
All

\
All this being finifhed, he confidered by
what means he might make the little hollow .
under the rock large enough to ferve hinii'
for a habitation. He {aw very well, that
'with his hands alone he lhould never be;
able to manage it What was to be done,; .

where he had feen a great number of hard;
green fiones fcattered on the ground. Hav- :1.
ing fearched amongfi them carefully, he at:
lali found one, the very fight of which made: 1,
him jump for joy; for, in efi'eet, thisV ...
fione had the very form of a hatchet,' "
and even a hole to fit the handle in._?
Robinfon faw, at .firft view, that it would;
make an excellent hatchet, if he could but?
enlarge the hole ever fo little. After a7 6'
world of pains he at length happily accom '
pliihed this by means of another fione; a
then he fixed a pretty thick flick in it, by if"
way of handle, and with fome of the cord?
which he had made himfelf, he fafiened iti;

' as firm as if it had been nailed 1n." T \9

He 110w tried to f'<:l'1'au finall tree, and the I

atcem'pt' 1312361111; no1e1'1'7'ec1efiful filled

him with Inexpreffible JOY, H'ad any 011:
"offered him' One hundred pounds'for 1115
' hatchet," 11c M11113 'tiot' have} patted 'wi1h it,

fuch vai't 1d'v'antages' dld' he pre'hhfe him'felf
from the ufe ofit. ' ,;

Seal'chmOJfifl'l amongi't t11of'e green homes;
. he founei'ztwo'b 111(11: equall 'fit' for ufe.f1'11e

. one had nea'rly t'11'e' fo'rm of" 21' ma11et,'1:h

_ as is 111':d b'y carpenters and 11011 eeufter's
'the other w'ais' {111p e(':'1 '11keh 11'0ut 111(1rt

w [r

' bludoeon,'h1{rihg'-a11 eLTge O'r "co'r'n'er' at f e
'_end.'R(1b1nR>r_1 carried them both" t'e'z'his

Ar 1;

, habxcandn'; 1ntendmg to! go t6 worik w1th

1.1;.>> 1.1:."1
them 1111med1ate1) . ' '

He i'uceeeded to his "(1111 La'i'fiS'r'Afhe.

* 1'11?

' edge 01' the 'one' {tone 1111011 the earth 1nd

( Arock, 111d finkmo 1t W111iJ the other re1'e1n~
"bhnga 111511111112: knock e'd' ofl? 1'e1'reraf p1:3es

12.230" 1:118 3-.{1q1-3 '1'19'"
of the rock,a',1n a 'f':w d1y's'; was

w 11 - ~~-~ '

"adv'ah'ce 11'1 dearmo oiit t'h": hollow, thatze'r 1t
'fcerhed la1ee'e116u0h for. h1m 10 115111 'at 1113

4'. .. .3111-
,'eafe. ._ , ' "'

'1 . -. '1'

I}. 'rOL;'I; 11.... nan ~~ F ..v.... 1 1""; He
- a human creature, without being oblige(L "
~ like a bird up in a tree. What a luxury3 '35

1 upon a foft bed of hay! He thanked God

i would they count themfelves to be able'to'

,, or otherwife! Certainly they would not let 6%
: - flip a day Without fincerely thanking Iii:

lights which they enjoy

       
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  

if,
From this time he was able to fleep like: 1

as he had for many nights before, to perch ':
it was to him to firetch his weary limbs:

and faid within himfelf, " Oh ' if my coun- '
trymen knew what it is to pafs, as l have
done, feveral nights fuccefiively, feared'j'i
upon a hard branch of a tree, how happy;

enjoy the refremment of fleep in converii>>;
cnt beds, fecure from accidents by falling}

. "1,

  

The following day was SundayRonrfisoncnusonhrrs

binfon dedicated it to refit," @1211"?! iand
n'wditationa He fpent .whgls: :. #151915 .99
his knees, with his eyes! turnegktqwards
heaven, praying to God to ,par'dqga his fins,
and to blefs and comfort his poohparents.
Then, with tears of joy, he thankedy his
Maker for the providential afiii'tance that

.he had- experienced in a fituation in which

he was cut off from the whole world; he
promifed to grow better every day, and to
perfevere 1n his filial obedience: '
Harriet. Well, I think mailer Robinfon
is grown much better than he was. . \
Mr. Bill. Providence forefaw that he
would grow better under afliiehon, and,
therefore, {offered him to undergo the trial
of it: for thus our heavenly Father aets
towards us all. It 1s not in his anger, but
in his tender mercy, that he (ends us mis-
fortunes .1 he knows that they are necefl'ary

'to us, in order to render us humbler and
' better. Far from being hurtful to us, they

become falutary remedies 1n his beneficent '
hands.

F2 .0 ""Th'a:Av-.~---w*--~--;ijwm< 1b.: 71.). a . .11. . .. , ......1

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  

7116 '1" 0 "1 Er5613}: 'N EKW'
T566116: might riot forget the- order-1
'daysf'fiiit 16116W regularly on what day Su11
day W61fleffallf Robinfon thoughtof 11161611155 1
1111111611I 6n 16111121116ck , 217;"?

Kiri). 1K1)? almanack. P ~ 1% V

'M7': Bz'I'Z. Yes; not a printed one, it 1331;,
truegflqr q11ite fo exaet as thofe that we 1
have 111' Edmpe, but Ptill an almana'ck 6
Which 1'16" yvas able to count the days regug
L11111311" " - ' ' '

Rich. And how did he manage that?
' Mr. Ber."Hav1na neither paper nor any
thing elfe requxfite for writing, he chofii"?
f6u'1' 'tr'eeSS _th6t were clofe befide each other,

I61'g61't' of the four he marked every even-
ing 6 h'otch, to fignify that a day wa's pai't .
JWhen he had made feven notches; the week
was exp1red The11' ne cut in the next me
another hQ'tch, to exprefs 6 week. As, .1 '
' often as he' had Completed 1n the fecond~
t'ree four notches, he marked on the third, ;;
"With a fidtch' of the fame 'fort, the revo--ge

lution of a whole month , and, lai'tly, when
' . ' , thefeg' fingers.'

R0311" 0N ;_C_RU;SOE. 117

i ' thefe-'marks;_thatzfi09d{931.493.31.18 amounted

to twelve inrtnumbfirghe, modem: {core- on-
the fourth tree, to denote thatkhe-whole
year was expired. - 2' ' 4 ' '

Henry. But all the months are not
equally long: fome have thjfly-pne ,days,
others but thirty: how then couldhe mail;
exaetly the number of days in each. ?-,x

Mr. Bill. That he could reckon on _his
Ric/9 Onlns fingers? 2 ' - :-
Mr. Bill Yes ,t anti, if- you chufe, 1 W111

' fhew you how too; ' .>> i

All the children Obi! Kim papa, 'd'o;
Mr. BEL. Well, 1%"; :obferyeg. Ht:

mu: his left hand f0; then, with the fore

finger of his right handihc tou'c'hedone of
the knuckles or finger. joints of. the left,'and
then the hollow that is befid'e it-,SSand-fd.on,
naming the months in theit;ord"c"r..".2EVery

' month that falls upon ariknfickleh'as-thirty-

one days, whereas the others :'wh'ich fall
upon the hollows between thdjointe have?

' only thirty; excepting the month oEEebru--

F3 ary"In." '1 '1}; -

ri?m' '

.1"7:-r'

7543' a

a _ - ' >>C/cw;' we}. LET: 'i

 

:: Mr. Bill. April?

Mr. Bifl. June in

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  

i'l8r'vh'THI-3 NEW _
ary alone, which has not to much is thirty;
but tWenty-eight,' and Once in every foul
years twenty-nine. , - ' f v 1

He began, therefore, with the knucqu,"j
of the fore finger, and touching that, heil
named the firf't' month of the year, January"
How many days then has January P '

Rick. Thirty-one. .

Mr. Bill. -I will go on, then, reckoning
the months upon the knuckles of my fin
gers, and do you, Richard, as I name each .~,
tell me the number of days that it contains.
In the fecond place, therefore, February?" . 32;"

Rich Should have thirty days, but it -

 

ty-- --nine. ..
. Afr. 3111. March. P
1. :Ritb. Thirty-one.-

:Ricb. Thirty.
Mr. Bill: May'?
v Rich. Thirty-one.

-'R1:th.' Thirty.' 11031115011 91111503. 119.

M. Bill. July? _
Rich. T h1rty-one -
Mr. Bill. Augufl: (pointing_ to the
knuckle of the thumb)? '
.1 Rich, Thirty-one.
3" 7 ' Mr. Bill. September?
0' Rich. Thirty. _
1117'. Bill. 0&ober?
.1 _ . Riel). Thirty-one.
35' I._ Mr. Bill. November?
1 Rich. Thirty.
Mr. Bill. December?
- - Rich. Thirty-one days.
i'i Mr. Bill. Well, Henry, you have reckol
S

 

oned alo'hg with us in your pocket alma--
nack, have we made 11: out right? , '
Hmry. Yes, papa, you have not milled a.
tittle.
Mr} Bill. Such little matters as thefe are
worth remembering, becaufe you have not

always an almanack at hand, and yet there ' '

is occafion for you fometimes to know how
many days there are in this or that month.
Rich". Oh, I'll warrant I lhall not forget.

 

WF'4 ' ' 11am}.-

"I
v.iififimw>> A-' -:' -

fw? 7"

  

, after the manner of Chrifiians.

m: . T73! .-'rw-="'.r;;;;
120 THE NEW."

Henry. N01 1, for I have taken particul'a
notice.

Mr. Bill It was thus, then, that' our
friend Robinf'on took care not .to loi'e ther ' "
order of time, but to know on what days g
the Sabbath fell, that he- might keep 1t holy,-j; - 7

 
   
      
     
 
 
   
  

In the mean time, he had ufed the great-
efl: part of the cocoa nuts that he had 110er
up, having difcovered but one tree of the
kind as yet, and the fhore fnrnifhed him ,
with fo few oyfters, that 3h'iy were not 1i1f- f.-;
fieient to keep him alive. He began, thei'e- '

.....

1'9re, to be uneai'y' again Concernihg the' an. R '
ticle of food. .

Hitherto fearfiil and cautious, he had no't'
dared to go to"ahy great diflanEe 'f'rorn his
dwelling The dread of wild beai'cs, 0'1" 0
men not niuch more c1v1hzed, if any were
to be {bond in the country, kept him at
home; but neceflity at length obliged him
to conquer his reluetance, and to walk a'.
little farther into the 11111111, in order, 111561: '

.fibk' to difcoyer a new 11de of proviiions.
WithR OR IN is 0 N 1. CR1) 8 O E...=~_172'I

With this intent he refolved', 'the {charging
day, with God' 8 blcfiing and pmteekion, to

traverfe the whole iflahd. _ ,.
But, 1n order to. defiend- himfelffiom the 7
exceffive heat of the fun, he fp'ent the Whole
evening making an umbrella. '. ' ,
Edw. Where did he find: filk and whale.
bone. ' :2
Mr. Bill. Hehad neithe'r' .ifilk 112:1: whale-
bone; nor had he either :knifer; fcifl'ars,
needle, or thread, and yet. ' bht hpwfdo:

 

you think he {61: about lmakin'g .1111. 'nm-

brella. 1" . uni :'ll :0:
Edwi That I Cannot 6:112: 3
Mr. iBill, He wove theva 101' 11; With

'fprigs of willow, like a large round b'afket,

not vei'y =de6p:7 in the middle {ofath'lhihe

fixed afiick, which be tied withrhiszpackz-
thread, and then he :weh't-'itfo 'ithe 'coco'a-'mzt

tree for fome large leaVes, whic'h'iheifafiemd
with pins to flhe out-Ede: l7 ~ - "I -3': '53 i >>
Rich. With pins- 9 'thic had 1176' {here
pins? 7-, >>. 115,-; 1113-311
Mr. Billeuefu - *2"? 1):.1': c.1111: .
'- F 5 ' _ Harriet;'91'2'2 =~THE NEW ..
Harriet. Oh, I can tell. He found them 1
among the fweepings, or between the chinks?e 1.
of the floor. I find a good many there.
Rick. A wife difcovery! As if one could $3
:find pins where there was nobody to lofe'F ,1
them! Befides, what fweepings could
-there be, or what floor m Robinfon' 5 little * 7:"
cave P ' J;
Mr; Bill. Well, who can guefs? How 51'}.
-wou1d you do if you wanted to faf'ten any],
' thing and had no pins?
Rick. I would ufe thorns, fuch as growls;
on the hawthorn tree. '
Geo. And I would 'ufe thofe firong - '

:prickles that we fee on goofeberry bufhes.

:mufi tell you,t that Robinfon sufed ne1theri,
~the one-nor the other, by reafon that he newfle'fii
:ver {aw either hawthorn>> Or, goofeberry tree"! ,.
fin all his_ _iflan'd.- ' I
Rich. What then did he ufe? - 1 s
:1 Mr; Bill. Filh bones. The fea threw

dead filhes up on the beach, from time to
time, and when their bodies rotted away or
- -' . ' werewere devoured by birds of prey, their benes

remained dry. Of thefe Robinfon had ga- '
thered fame of the manger: and Iharpefl t6

ufe as pins.
By means of them he contrived t6 make

up an umbrella to clofe that not a finglc
ray of the fun could penetrate it 'When-
ever any new piece of work fucceeded with

him, his joy was inexpreflible; then he-
ufed to fay to h'imfelf, '_" Have not I been .

a great fool to "pafs the belt 'part of ' my
youth in idlenefs. Oh! if I' Were in Eu-
rope now, and had all thofe tools at my
command that are {9 eafy to be procured
there, what things I could make for my;

felf. ' And what a pleafure it 11116111651: to__

me to make up myfelf the grea'teft part.
of my furniture, and the Working tools that,
I fhould have occafion for. " ' '

As it was not very late, he's'bethought
himfelf of trying to make a bag that might
hold his provifion, if he fhould be fo lucky'
asto find any in his exc'u'rfio'n. He turn-

' F 6 v ed'n.:1\ '\ v" ( .3 7'

'124 V'THENEW'I'
ed this fcheme 1n his thoughts PS51: a wluIe

to accomplifh 1t.
. You muf't know, he had made a tole
rable good flock of packthread, of this he?"

refolved to weave a piece of network, and 1:.
of the network to make a bag.

Now it was thus he {ct about it. He
fafiened acrofs, between two trees that ,-

 
 
       
   
   
 
  
  
   
  

.as clofi: as poflible. This lrefembled ex-_. : _r
aftly what weavers call the warp. In" 1???
the next place, he joined regularly, From
top to bottom, thread with thread, Hill as 1,
clofe as poflible, knotting the thread that
went down With each thread that went acrof's,
exactly in the farne manner as when one "
weaves a net. T hefe threads, therefore, that ,
_weht downwards formed what is called the .
timof, Add, by th1s fort of workmanlhxp he
in a Ihort time completed a piece Of net-1 ' '

MM

ting not unlike fuch as fifhermen ufe. He 2%nostnson chosenizs

rhext flipped ofi' the ehds'" 6f the threads

from the trees to which they were faitehed',
'and joined ihe (ides of the dettin'g tOge-
ther, ciofmg up the bottom, thus he left
ho part open hit the 19111-11511: was a
bag or p0ueh complete, which he hung by
his fide, having fafi'cne'd Both ends (if?!
Rout piece of packthread to the mouth
and flipping the loop over his heek. ~

The happy i'uccefs Of his labour filled
hi1n With fo mtich Joy that he was fcarce
able to cIofe his eyes all mighty '

Gee. I fhould like to have fiich a hag as
that.

Edw. So ihould I too, if we had only fome
packthreadL

Mr:. Bill. If you wifhed "1'0 enjoy as;
much fatisfae'tion from your w01k as Ro- _

binfon did from his, you Ihould begin with
making the phe'hthread yoiJri'eres,D and you
yourfelves {hould prepare the hemp or the
flax {or that purpofe, But as there IS niei-
ther flax tio'r hemp ripe at this time of the
year, I will 1111111111 yoii with packthread
660112,6__'1'H'E NEW

, Ge'a. Oh! dear mama, will you be {a 4:
good? '
Mrs. Bill. Yes, my clear, if you defire 1t
Geo. That is delightful. V ) _, PS_
Harriet. You are doing what 15 ver '
right , for if ever you {hould happen to be
in an ifland where there was not a living ;
foul but yourfelf, you know beforehand
how to fet about fuch things, eh, papaP ' _
Mr, Bill. Right. Well, make a trial.'-SS~
As to Robinfon, we Hwill let him fleep till. '
to-morrow. In the mean time, we {hall feel

if it is not poflible to be as cunning as he,
and to make an umbrella.

I

FIFTH EVENINGQ

THE next evening, the--company being I
' afl'embled in the ufual place, Ed~
ward came firutting m with a pouch of

network
network that he made himfelf, and which

drew the eyes of the wholeg Company upon
him. Infiead of an umbrella, he had bor-

rowed a fieve from the cook, and [hole a
brooml'tick through. 1:. This he held over
his head as he came in, and marched up to
the table with a great deal of importance
and folemnity.

Mrs. Bill. Bravo, Edward! why this is
excellent! I had almofl: taken you for R0-
binfon Crufoe himfelf.

Rich. Ah! if I had but had a few mi- '
nutes more time to finiih my bag, 1 cOuld
have come in the fame manner. '-

1 Gee. So could I too. 1
Mr. Bill. Well, Edward has fhewn that

other people can make pouches of network
as well as Robinfon Crufoe. But, my man,
. your umbrella 1s not worth a farthlng. "I
Edw. Oh, papa,I only make Ihift with J
this for the prefent, becaufe I was not able '
to finilh another 1n the time. j

Mr. Billing/Ia (opening a clq/et door, aizd
flicking out at; umbrella wbicb be bad made

biilljelf).128 'r H E- N E W- . 1
lam/21f) What fay you to this, M1. Ro..='
Binfon Crufoe?
' Edw. Ah 3. that is'a fineiOne. vi:
1147:3271. I keep it until We come to the'LL " '
end 'of the Rory. Then he who {hall have'i '
heft p'erfdrm'ed the feveral pieces of work
'fii'entioncd in it, {hall be our Robinfon CruJ 1

 

umbrella. ~. .*
620. And mutt he really make a cave
too, or a hut. 3
Mr. Bill. Why not. 3

5 All the children. Oh, that is cxcellent,i "-S
that 15 delightful. .
Mr. Bill. Robinfon could fcarce wait for
the daylight. He rofe before the fun,a ned
prepared for his Journey. He flipped his?)
'p'bu'ch firing over his neck, pm: a firong 11
cord round his 'waif'c by Way of girdleyinii if
which he f'tuck his h'at'chet infiead of 'fifwbrd
"took his umbrella upon his fhoulder, and?
Lfo courageoufly began his marCh. ' ,.
He firfi paid a vifit to his cocoa-nut tree, 5'

\

to Furnifh his bag with a nut Or 'tWo. Pro. if: a
- _vided L_ROBINSON 6111211501. 156"

v1c_Ied VIIIh f5ri1e' oF tIIis" excellent Food, he

went fir510I1t down'tt'a'fhe Fea-I'zde to {E'eIi' aIIIK'
fome oyflers; 'ana,hav1ng got" 5 Fr'na'II fidre'deg_
0F theI'e two arucles, 111' caFe oF neceflity, I1e"
109k a flIg'ht" bf'eakFeifi,' w1t'I1 5 1111111; oF' fI'eIh'"
miter From I1I's Fpr1ng,"ar1d marched'bfi' '

The morning was dehorhtful , the Fun 11/53"
j11fi then rIfihg 1n 5II hI's' g'Io'I'y, 5nd Feet'hed'
as if he 2111211111511 011: oF die Fe5. A 1110114I
flind bIr'ds, of difefent flirts", and PS55 gI'e5t'eIt
Variety oF admlrabIe plumage, We're theti'
fingIng qtheir' mormng Fong, 5nd I'eJorcmg' at
the return thght The air _w5SS '55 151111: 51113
as FrefIi as 1F 11 Ind been' b11t ju'II theri' (516513"
51,1151 the. plants 5nd flowers ex'h'aled theI
mOII. exqu1fite perFume. -

RobI'nFo'ri Fe'It IIis he'a'rt expand V'vitII 5on
and aratltude. " EV'cn here," FaId I1e,- " eve}?
here doth tIxe Creator oF tIu': U11'1VerFe er
himfeIF the m'oit beneficent 0F beings. "'--- 1
He PS11611 111Ixed his voi'ce witb tI1'e melody}
of PS1111 bIrds, 511d {1111}; a mommg hymn,
wIIi'c'h 11'5 h'5'd form-319151111; 'a'n'd ItIll' re.
1'5'1'115d'i'n memory

"111
      
 
 
 
  
 

avoided, in his walk, as much as pollible,>>
all forefls and thickets, chufing, on the?
contrary, fuch grounds as allowed him anii ,
open profpeet on every fide- , but unfortu-E'
nately thefe grounds were the barrenefl: 1%?
parts of the whole ifland, f0 that he had i (Z
gone a pretty long way without finding any
thing that could repay him for his troublehzav .
or be the leaf't ferviceable to him_. '7 > _'
.. At laf't he obferved a parcel Of plants:
which he refolved to iane& a little clofer ti:
they were growing tbgether in tufts, and
formed a kind of little coppice. Some had 5' _
reddilh blofl'oms, others white, 21 third fort} 3'
infiead of blolloms, were covered with little
green apples, about the lize of a cherry. -:'
He eagerly hit one of thefe apples, butg'i";
found it unfit for eating ,which f0 vexed him,:, t:
that ne plucked up the whole tuft, and was
going to fling it away, with all his force, ill?
when he perceived, to his great furprife, 1135

number of round knobs hanging from :he'fz' .
roots 11,-;Rostrum}:~ CR 115033-131
.roots oithe tuft. V He immediately fufpe&---
ed that thefe [werepr'operly the fruit of ithe
plant, and, therefore," began to' examine
them. ' ~

But, however, this time his tafie dilap-
pointed him; the fruit was hard and difa-
greeable to the palate. Robinfon had a
mind to throw the whole away 3' but fortu-
nately he recolleeted that a thing {hould
not be reckoned abfolutelyjufelefs, becaufe'
we cannot all at once difcover the utility of
it.' He, therefore,' put a few of thefe knob-
bed fruit into his pouch, and continued his
walk. _ _ -r '

Rick. I not. what thefe knobbed fruit .

were. _ ' :
'MraBill. Come,'what ,do you think-they
were? ' I '- , ' g
Rich. Why, they were potatoes; they
grow exactly as you have defcribed thefe
knobs. I ; - .
Henry. And America is their original foil
too. - a : , ' , . - '
Geo. Aye, it was from that country .that,
Sir{gy- 1 '
Geo. Law! I haveieen potatoes, and eat-v. "

of them a hundred times. I am very fond '23?"
of them. ;' 
Mr. Bill. But Robinfon had, perhaps;
never fe'e'n any of them, at leafi, as they.
grow in the ground.-
Geo. No?
Mr. Bill. No. ' confider, that was {01". .
tr or- fifty years ago, when they were by no
means f0 common in fome parts of Englandsi a 1'
as they ar'e at prefen't'.
Geo. Oh! then I beg his pardon. - ".-
Mr; Bil}. You fee, my dear George,
how wrong it is to be too badly 1n blaming 3,;
Others. We mould always put o'urfelves '
_ in their place, and firf'c' afk' the quefl'ion if
we could have done better than they. If
you' y'o'ur'fial'f had never feen potatoes, nor f3:
heard 1n what manner they fhould be drefl, ' i; '.
you would ha'Ve been as much puzzled as
Robinfon' R 031.11 $0.14 --.C&II';SOE. 31,33

;Robinfon' :0 find out the: nfi-joflthcm; ' Let
this teach-you never to j .thiink' ay,qufc1f,clg;-
fiver'er that>> otherpeOplc. -

Gem: It 11131], papa. _ '

Mr. Bill Robinfon continued;1 hlsmalk,
but very (lowly, and With a grcat deal Offlcau-

,.tion. The .- lcait , noife, .made : by. the, wind
in Ihakihg: 1he.-ttces,-and ithe ,thickclgj flar-
tled him, and made him put his hand tohis
hatchetf tor-defend: hinifclffid 1C/afe.0f.nSSEURd-
-B11t haalways fa'w, to his great joy, that his
.- fright was without foundation;

At length he arercd. on tho banks of- -a
rivulet, where,he.refolv.ed (to make his (lino
ner. "He .feated thimfelf- at the foot ,of 2}
large. 'brenchy :tree,: 'and , 'was iufi ,going
to rcgalehimfelflheartily; whemall at once,
a noife; Gat'a dii'camcc,~ mew: him again into '
a- terrible fright. _

He looked round, with terror in his coun-
wt'enanCCy and, at length, perceived a whole
troop of--n--

<<cfla'w. Dh- la! favages; 1 ifuppofc.
'T Geo. Or clfelions and tigers. , '

Mr. Bill.134 Urn: N72 w
3 Mr. Bill. Neither one nor the. other
but a tr00p of wild animals, which hay

that of a camel. As to their fize, they were '.
very little larger than a {heep. If you? 3'
would with to know what thefe animals 1.3;
were, and how they were called, I will tell};
you.
Rid>>. Oh! yes, papa, if you pleafe.
r.Bill. They are called lamas' , their";
country is properly that part of America'j'ffl
- which belongs to the Spaniards, and is call- "
>> ed Peru. There, before the difcovery of that
Vextenfive country by Francis Pizarro and' _

it for a beafl of burthen, as we do horfes and: H '
mules. 0f its wool they made fluffs fori-i'

cloathing. 3;:
Rich. Then the people of Peru were not
{o favage as the other Americans.
- Mr. Bill. Not by a great deal, They liv- ,
' ed in houfes properly built , as did alfo' the .j-_
~ Mexicans. z-i

\.

 

w...

.m.

w
.
.--
.

.4
"m

E-

g

WM

:u'-' "

'.
Mexicans (here in North America), they
had built magnificent temples,- and were
governed by kings.

Geo. Is it not from this country that the
Spaniards draw all that gold and 'filver for
which they go every1year to America, in
their galleons, as you have told us.-

fllr. Bill. .The fame.--Robinfon,nfeeing
thefe lamas approach, felt a violent defire to
eat fame r'oafi meat, Which he had not tafted
for fo long atime. He thdught,' therefore,
of killing one of thefe latnas; and for that pur-
pofe he flood, clof e befide the tree, with his .
hatchet of flint 1n his hand, Waiting until the
beafi fhould, perhaps, pafs f0 clof'e to him,-
that he might firike it With his hatchet.

It happened as he expedited. Thefevani-
mals, walking on without fufpicion,- 'afidx
probably having never. been diflur-bed by
any living'creature, pafl'ed by, free from the
leafi dread of danger, clofe to the. tree where
Robinfon flood in ambufcade 5 and one of
the fmalleft of them coming within his

reach, he gave it fo efi'ee'tual a flroke on
VOL. I. . G thethe nape of the neck, that he laid it dead
in a moment. ' .
Harriet. Oh fy! how could he do f0?
The poor little. ihe'ep! .
Mrs. Bill. And why thould he not, Harii

riet?
Hornet. Nay, the poor little thing had
done him no harm, however; and fo he
might very well have let it live.
Mrs. Bill. Certainly, he might to 5 bu _ -
he had occafion for the flefh of this animal a _
for his food and nourilhment, and dof'c thou '_'
.not know that God hath permitted us to '
make ufe of animals whenever we have the
like occafion' . .
Mr. Bill. To kill any living creature
without necefiity, or to torture it, even'ii';
barely to teaze it, is crueltv, and no good
perfon will do {0 ;1b1__1t to draw all the ad-
Vantage pollible from them, and even to.
kill them and ufe their flefh for our nou- 1:...
'rifhment, is not forbidden. Befides, do not 3 .,
you know, as I explained to you the other?:
day"
day, that it is very well for animals that we
fllOUId deal thus with them?

Rich. Ah. ' very true, if we had no oc-
cafion for animals, we fhould not take care
of them, and in that cafe they would not be
near fo well ofi' as at prefimt. How many
of them would be flawed 1 to death in a
hard winter !

Henry. Yes ; and they would fuller
i'till more if they were not killed, but left
to die of ficknefs and old-age, becaufe they
cannot allif'c each other as men do.

Air. Bill. Again, we mull not {Uppofe >>

that the death to which we put animals
caufes them a great deal of pain. They are
not fenfible beforehand that they are going
to be killed, fo that they are quiet and con-
tented to the very lafl: rnoment, and the
feeling of pain, while they are killing,
foon pal't.

Robinfon never thought of aiking him;
{elf how he was to drefs the fleih of this
young lama, until the moment that he had
killed it.

G 2 Harriet.
Harriet. Dear me. 'could not he boil 1t or ,
roai't 1t. 9 '

nately, he had not a fingle article for the;
purpofe ; he had neither pot nor fpit, and;
what is worfe; he had not even fire. _
Harriet. No fire. 9 Why, then, all he?
had to do was to light one.
Mr. 821]. True, if he had a flint and
fieel, tinder and matches, but he had noneff :-
of them. .
Rich. Iknow what I would have done.
Mr. on} What, pray 3
Rick. I would have rubbed two bits of '
dry wood one againfi the other, until they
took fire. I recolleet, that is the Inc-k:
thod ufed by fome favage people. W {EUR51
read 1t in a Icolleelion ofvoyages. 'i

fame ridea.
fore, upon his (boulders, and turned his
fieps homewards. . ' "
On the way, he made another difcovery,

' \ which
which afforded him infinite joy. This was
anumber of lemon-trees, feven or eight,
round which, on the ground, he found fe-
veral ripe ones that had fallen. He ga-
thered them up carefully, marked the fpot

' ' where thefe trees. grew, and, quite happy

 

and content with his acquifition, hafi'ened
home to his habitation.

There his firPt bufineis Was to fkin the
young lama. He effected this by means
of a {harp flint, which ferved him for a
knife. He firetched the {kin 1n the fun as
well as he could in order to dry it, becaufe he
forefaw that it might be of fervice to him. '

Rich. Why, what could he make of that?

Mr. Bill. Oh! a great many things. In
the firf'r place, his {hoes and fiockings be;
gan already to be full of holes. He thought
that, when his {hoes were quite gone, he
might make fole's of this flcin, and faf'cen
them under his feet, fo as not to be obliged '
to walk quite barefoot. Befides, the thoughts.
of winter troubled him not a little, and he
was glad that he had found a way to furnifla-

- ' G 3 'himfelf
himfelf with fur againft the feverity of the

cold. '

It is true, he might have {pared himfelE}; " i
this uneafirnefs , for, in the country where {3;
he now was, there was never any winter. ' '

Geo. Never any winter?

Mr. Bill. The cold of winter is feldom
felt In any of thofe ho: climates betweenj ._
.the two tropics. I was {peaking to you", '

_ about them lately; have you forgot how.
they are called P 5

Henry. The Torrid Zone. _

Mr. Bill. Right.-----However, to make
amends {Or this want of winter, they have, ""
during two or three months of the year, in
cefTant rains. As to Robinfon, he knew'.
nothing of all that, becaufe, in his youth,>>
he would not {offer himfelf to be properly 5 .
inflrue-'ted. Hifiory, geography, and every :3"
other improving fcience, were tirefomeandi
hateful to him. - L

Rich. But, papa, I think, {dr-- all that,%' .
that we have read once how very high"
mountains, like the Peak of T enerifl', am},

alwaysROB'XN so N c R 15303. 141
always covered with fnow; and how, on
that ridge of mountains which bounds Chili
on the Ball, and extends from Peru to the
Straits of Magellan, {now is to be feet; the
whole year. It mutt certainly be always
winter there ; and 'yet thefe places are be-
tween the tropics. _

Mr. Bill. You are right, my dear
Richard. Situations very high and moun-
tainous are an exception; for upon' the
tops of thefe high mountains there is com~
' monly a perpetual fnow. Do you remem-
ber too what I told you of fome countries
in the Ball Indies, when we lately went
over them on the map 9

Rich. Yes 5 that, in fome countries there,
fummer and winter are but two or three
leagues afunder. In the Mind of Ceylon,
which belongs to the Dutch sand there alfo
y--where--r-where was it?

Mr. Bill. In the peninfula on this lid:
of the Ganges : for, when, on one fide of
the Gaut mountains, it is winter, namely,
upon the Coaf't of Malabar, on the other

' G 4. .fideiide of thofe mountains, that 13, Upon the: .4;
Coaft of Coromandel, it is fummer, andfl'

f0 alternately. The fame IS the cafe alfo In

  
     
    
  
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
    

or out of fummer into Winter. . in"; ii .
But here have we travelled very far from Q "
our friend Robinfon. Obferve how, at one?! ' '
fpring, our thoughts can tranfport them'
felves 1n the twinkling of an eye to plaieve'ig'fi;
dii'cant from us by many thoufands, 0E;
leagues. From America we have taken .
flight to Alia, and now--take care--shay. 3':
pafsl we are back again in Americg a" I
Robinfon Crufoe' s ifland.

derful ?

a?

ter to roaft, his firf'c care was to prov1de, _.
a fpit. For this he cut down a [youngx i
'flenaer willow-tree; peeled oh" the 'rindflan
made it {harp at one end, after whicliihc .1
chofe a couple of forked branches to- hold

iuPii"
' up the fpit. Having cut them of an equal}
length and {harp at the ends, he [tuck

'; other, put the joint on the fpit, which he
-' then laid on the two forked flicks; and great

,indeed was his joy when he fawhow well}

his {pit went tound.
He wanted nothing now but, what is;
_' moi'c necefl'ary of a1], fire. In order to:
_' produce it by rubbing, he out two pieces.
9f wood from a dry trunk, and im--
' -.mediately fell to. work.' He rubbed fox
.briikly', that the fweat ran down. his face in:

'_ great drops; but he could not accompliflm

Lhis purpofe :. for when the Wood was heat--
ed until it fmoked, jail then he found him.
{ 'felf f0 fatigued, that he-was under- an 21be-
~ lute neceflity to flop- a few moments" and}
'chcover firength.; in the mean time, the:
"wood cooled a little; and. his whole laboun-
became ufelefe. ,
Here again he had"a lil'vely initance of
the helplefl'nefs of man in a Rate of foli-
' G 5. trade3w
tude, and what mighty advantages the {6'
ciety of other men affords us.

(in fire; but thofe-interruptions, which he
enuld not avoid, rendered the thing impofgv .

fible. . ,_
Ric/s. And yet I always thought that the? "
favages produced fire by rubbino. ' ~ ' ,

Mr. Bill'So they do. But then thefe"
fivages are generally much fironger thane': . ..
We Europeans, who are brought up a great;
deal too delicately. In the next place,
they know better how to fet abmit it. They"
take two pieces. of different wood, one foft,
the other hard, and they rub the latter with.
a great deal of rapidity againf't the former,
.which, at length, takes fireh Or elfe, again,
they make a hole inone of the bits of wood,
into which they put the end of the other,'~
and then turn it between their hands, with
in quick and incei'fant a motion, that at'fi;
length it begins to burn. "R' O B' I N' S'O'N C R U 9015'. IC/5

Of all this Robinfon knew not one little,
and therefore did not fucceed.

At lafi: he threw away the pieces of wood,.
fat down upon his bed of hay in a melan-
choly mood; fupporting his head upon his:
hand, and, fighing heavily, ~call: a look now-
and then upon the fine joint-of meat which:
was likely now to remain on the {pit With-
out roafiinot Then fuddenly refleeting; '
what would become of him in winter! if he:
had no fire, he felt fuch piercing anxiety"
at the thought, that he was obliged to: rife;
' ptecipitately and walk about, in. order: to:
breathe more at his cafe-r

As- his fpirits were a- good d'ealhgitated',
he grew thir--f'ty, and went to the fpring;
with a cocoa-nut {hell to fetch fome wateri.'
With this 'he mixed the juice of a lemon,
which made-a; molt excellent diinlg,-and.af-~
forded' him unfpeakable refrefliment' in- a:
moment when heitood- extremely in needi
of in. . .

In the mean time, the fight'of'hi's meat
upon the fpit made his mouth: water-- , he-
G 6 a ardentlly1'46 , TH-E'NEVV

  
  
   
  
   
 
     
 

to himfelf, might be done as well by anus:
ther method, and' he refolved to try.
No fooner {aid than done. He went ta
feek two pieces of Ptone, pretty broad and: f
fmooth, Of the fame fort as that of which
his hatchet was made. Between thefe two:
items he placed a piece of meat that had- I?
no bones, and began immediately to {trike {
without intermifi'ion upon the uppermofl:
{tone with his ftone mallet. After he had;
done this for five or fix minutes, the {tone _;.
began to grow hot, Which made him con- (:3
tinue tovl'trike with redoubled activity; fa"
that in lefs than half an hour, the meat,
'partly by the heat of the Rome, and partly
by the prefi'ure and weight of the blows,
was grown quite tender and fit to eat. '
_ No doubt the tal'te of it was not altogeq .. V
ther fo good as if'it had been properly

roafied 5; 5 .
pl ,

   
 
 
    
   
   
   

In"
, a;
2m 2
5' .>>.
roafied, but to Robinl'on, who had been fa
long a time without rafting meat, it was a
delicious mbrfel. " 0 you," he cried,
" 0 you amongi't my countrymen, whofe
delicate fiomachs are often qualmifl-i at the
fight of the bell: food in the world, if it does
not exaetly {bit the depraved fenfiiality of
your appetites, if you. were only a week in
my place,'how contented would you be-all.
the rei't of your lives with. whatever food
Providence fliould fend you I How careful:
would you be of defpifing good vie'tuals,
and of fhewing your ingratitude to. the all:-
nouriihing bounty of Heaven!"
In order to make this meat more favoury,
he fqueezed a little lemon>> juice upon it,
and then he made 'fuch a meal as he had
not made for a long time. ' Neither did) he
forget to thank, from the bottom'of his,
heart, the Author of all Goodnefs for this;
new benefit; ' '
_ When he had made an end ofeating, he-
debated in- his own mind what work would.

be the mofl: necefl'ary tor fet about. The.
dreadseedingly tame, he heped to accomphihgau
this intent without much trouble. if

With this hope he went to bed, and 11%-
found refrefliing fleepi repaid him richly {01:4 5

L211 his fatigues. during the day.

  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  

 

SIXTH EVENING'..

R. BILLINGSLE'Y Continued 11'1
f'tory of Robinfon Crufoe in- thefq

words: ' {if

brifkly, he was going direuly to take the- I I ,.-' I" ' . .I'. ) _
Q .'l : \le I;
'7 << "w M --

' ,,\,\\ ~ 5 .
: ';' i; ; 2k"
' " \\
field againfl: the lamas , but the heavens
did not permit him.

For no fooner did he put his head out of

the cave, than he was obliged to draw it in
again.

Harriet. How was that, papa?

2147*. Bill. It rained as hard as it could
pour, fo that there was no pofiibility of
going out. He refolved, therefore, to wait
until the ihower was over. ' ' "

But there appeared no likelihood of this ,
on the contrary, it grew more and more
violent.' It was accompanied alfo with
lightning f0 bright, that his cave,_ which
commonly was pretty dark, feemed to be
all in a blaze; and then the. flaihes were fol-
lowed-by fuch claps of thunder as he had
never heard. . The earth trembled. under
thefiorm, and the echoes'of the mountains
repeated the found of the,thu'nder to often;
that the tremendous roar ~i'eemed to be with>>
out end. - ' '
As Robinfon had not received a good

educa-
   
   
  
 
    
 

hing P V
M. Bill. Yes, fo frightened, that he dial: '
not know where to hide himfelf. syn 2

Geo. Why, it is fomething grand, ho 'l
could 1t frighten him. F i.

Mr. Bill. I cannot well afl'ign a reafon For_
this fear. Perhaps 1t is, that the colieetionf *._'
of fulphur, fair, and nitre, which produces

- are .expofed to it.
Rich. Yes 5 but thefe accidents are very'

rare.

does the fiorm bring with if! It purges}
the air of fuiphureous vapours, it renders thel'i '
air much purer a'nd fitter to promote the _"
vegetation of plants- , the burning heat of f:

the weather 1t- renders cool and temperate; 1;
and,"'r-

ROBINSON .c-nv'son. :15!

and, laft of all, it prefents us with the grand-
cft and mofi: awful fpee'tacle in nature.

Harriet. I love to fee the lightning
dearly. Papa, will you' let us-go out with
you when it thunders, that we may obferve
the courfe of the lightning.

2147'. Bill. With all my heart.--Robin-'
fan, as you remember, had? been" ill-in;
firue'ted in his youth. This was the reafon
why he knew not how great an advantage
fiorms are ;_ how they clear the air, and
make every thing grow better in the fields
and gardens; and how, confequently, they
contribute to refrefh and give, as it were,
new life to both men and animals, trees and
plants. ,
During the ftorm, he fat in a corner of
his cave, with his hands clafiaed' together,
and opprefi'ed with molt dreadful anxiety.
The rain, mean while, ran down 1n firearms,
the lightnings fiafhed, and the thunder ..
roared incefihntly.' It was almofi: noon-
day, and the violence of'the florm had n01;
inthe leafc, abated. '

Robinfonentirely taken away his appetite, but hi3 5
imagination was difquieted with the m6fl:{E

3' .

men't due to my tranfgrefiions. He has; '

poor parents again.'

Mr. Merea'. I mul'c confefs, I am 11 _;
well pleafed at all with my friend Robinfon "
this time.

Edw. Why not, Sir. P >>

Mr. Mend. Had not his merciful Crea-i
tor done enough already 1n his favour, to
convince him that he never forfakes thof
who trufi in him fincerely, and whofe con:
trition is undifi'embled. P Had he not faveclvfig
303 IN SON ' G'R'USOE. 153
yet to be To defponding! Fy, fy! It has"
not a-good afp'eet. ' -~ ' '- * "

Mrs; Bill. I am of' your opinion, Mn]
Meredith; neverthelefls, let us have com-'

pamon on the poor youtht, It was but very
lately that he had begun to think at all, and,
confequently, it Was impoflible for hiin 7to
have made fo great a progrefs as one who
had-fiudied from his earliel't years to be-
come always wifer and better.

Mr. Bill. My dear, you are right. Your
compaflion for poor Robinfon is as juft as

it: is worthy of your tender nature. I my-

{elf begin to have a confiderable regard
for him, as he has been fome time pail: in

the right way. .
. While he lat thus defponding, over-

' whelmed with trouble and difquiet, the

f'torm, at length, began to abate. As the
claps of thunder became lefs loud, and the

' rain came down lighter, hope by degrees

\

"revived in his breaft. ' He thought he
fhould- now be able to-fet out on his expea '
dition againfi: the lamas, and was going to-'

take

,'3;
take his hatchet and his bag, when, all at. 1";
once--what do you think ?---he fell back {'3' '
wards, quite f'tunned and fenfelefs. \
Rub. Hey day ! What was the matter;;,,
with him, then? s 7
Mr. Bill. Exactly over his head therefe
burf't the terriblef't noife imaginable. the <13"";
earth trembled, and Robinfon was throwfi::g
"backwards, and fell like a dead man. Itii'w
feems the lightning had f'truck againfl the";
tree which grew on the top of the cave, and;
ihattered it all to pieces, with a found f0} ii
tremendous as deprived poor Robinfon of j"
his femes, and he actually thought he was
killed. g
. He remained on the ground a confidesx.
rable time before he recovered his fenfesfi'
At length, perceiving that he was Bill aliv
he rofe up, and the firfi objeet that he be--i'
held before the door of his cave was part
of the tree which the lightning had torn in?
pieces, and thrown down. A frelh misfori'

- tune for Robinfon! How was he now to'?_
' fafiemizon INsoN <<ck-user. 1'55

fatten his ladder of ropes, if the whole tree
was broken down, as he thought itwas'?

As the rain had now totally ceafed, and
the thunder was no longer heard, he took
courage, at lafl', to go out; and then what
did he fee .9

That which, in a moment, filled him
with gratitude and love towards his Creator,
and covered him with confufion for fuffering
himfelf to fall into deprndency, as he had ,
done. You muff know, the trunk of the '
tree which had been flruck by the light-
ning Was all on fire. Thus Robinfon found
himfelf, in a moment, mailer of that which
he had moi't wanted; and thus Divine Pro-
vidence had taken the moft particular care
- of him, exact-1y at the moment when he ima-
gined, in his defpair, that he was entirely
abandoned. F all of \inexpreflible feelings
ofjoy and gratitude, he lifted up his hands
towards Heaven, and, fiaedding a flood of
tears, he thanked, with aloud voice, the af-
feetionate Father of the Univerfe, who go--
verns all, and who, even when he permits

the
ever. by the wifef'to and molt charitable real " _
fons. " Oh. "' {aid he', " what, then, is?>>
man, this poor worm of the earth, whofe;
views are f0 confined 1' What is he, to",
dare to murmur againfi that which God
hath brought to pais by means infc1utablE. -
to all mankind 9" ' i3' ..

  
   
  
   
 

{on to be lefs uneai'y about his fubfil'tence

"v

in this defert ifland. The defign that he."

had upon the lamas was dropped for tog

 

curity. He did {0, took a burning fplih;

ter of the tree, defcendcd again into the en-:.
clofiire

iii
'aoansoN tenosoz. 157

cjofureibefore his cave, kindled a good fire
findervhig meat, and then climbed up once
_ mare ta, pot QUt that which was flill burning
in the thunk of the tree. ~ This, he efi'ec'ted
in a lhort time. .
And now he fet about performing the
duty of a cook. Hetended the fire and~
turned. the {pit very carefully. The fight
of the fire. rejoiced him infinitely; he looked
upon it as a precious gift which God had
[ent him from the clouds; and while he re-
flected .ongthegteat gdvontagesthat he fhould
enjoy flow the 'polfelfion ofjt, his. eyes were
ioftemtume'd with gratitude towards Hea-
yen. .-And1dnring. ithe tell .of. his life, as

find. gave me." ,_ . . -
. . M..M;;ed. Fire, which preferves all
that breathe on this earth, is anemblem of
the Divinity; it is the .noblel't of all ele-.

meats. '. . .

a M48171; 'Hence it is that the .worlhipt' of
fire hath hem ovary common amongfl: Ithe '
: VOL. I. H ignorant

h1 58 .
ignorant pagans. AtR ome it was prefm' ff:
ed in the temple of Vef'ta; at Athefls;_' 1n '
of Minerva; at Delphi, in that of ApOllo '
and you mutt remember how much it was,
reverenced 1n Perfia. << 1111 "'4 -

Mr. Mend. Yes, but thank Heave'r'i We'"'
are better infirueted, and know that fifie it i
not God, but a gift of God's bounty, 11kg"

water, earth, and air, which he hath ciei '1

ted from the love he hears us. Egfigggfigfi "
Mr. Bill. Robinfon, during his repaft the"
day before, had only regretted the want (3 1
falt, which would have improved the fifiei ': .
of the meat that he drcfi'ed by blows'of the
mallet. He hoped, however, in time" [51' '_ .
find fome {alt in his inand, for the prefcht
he contented himl'elf with going to thejhofig'fj.' ,
and bringing home, in a cocoa-1111511112111?
fame fea water, with which he fpririklecl in:
meat feveral times, falting it in this manner; '
in default of a better. _ ' '
His meat was now done. The Joy With'
which he cut off the firfi fliee, and put 111a.

firf't bit into his mouth, cannot be defmbed,
9""" but5' ,, .E .

  
  
 
  
   

'RogxnsoN CRuson. :59

1:... ' but by one, who, like him,_ fl1ould not have
' {aged for a month before a fingle mouthful
A ' of meat properly dreft, and who fhould have '
almOR given up the hopes of ever tafiing
. . any fuch again. '
1 After this, the main point was how to keep
git in his fire always.

7" . ~ , Geo That he could eafily manage by
-.._ 'adding conflantly frefh wood. "
I. Mr. Bill. Very good. But at night,
while he was afleep, if there came a fudden
mower, what was he to do then. P '
3- 1,>> Harriet. But, papa, I'll tell you what;
l f I would have made the fire in my cave
' ff wherethe rain could not come. ' t A

Mllr. Bill. No bad thought. But, unfor-
: tunately, his cave was fo fmall, that it jull:
{awed him to lie down in: and, then, chim-
a}; ' 1 ney he had none, f0 that the fmoke would
7,5; have been exceedingly inconvenient to him- ;
L like could not have borne 1t.

:31" r Harriet. Nay, m that cafe I do not know
;':l:ow to ailii't him. .

:6." its: Rich. What a terrible fituation! There
hr H a. muft

:.7160 THE N415 wgfl _.

mui'c always happen fomcthingvtd M :9

poor Robinfon. One would rehibkjji"

.and then, that he was madem'gijigewg '

happy; but, your-humble ferVangrfqr'rxeflfifief-f ~
'4'

.r
<5.
"t: .
.4}: ".4
'X'.
.r ? ~92
w , $9". '

   
    
 

a

     
 
   
 
  
  
  
 

.liged each "aof PS15 top-live 'bymmmfiafidif ' .
410wa were Eczrecei-ve any amfiancefmni" .1
Wriowamreaes. A thoufandhKiicis'aEi
not _fufficienz,, ta. pmpare what-cath'bf'f'i
wants every days_ - f '35 V.
I 'ffirb"ob!:3PaPEE'-'~' r '33? .,-'

M63171. What; do you thinkthatfi:

u, a vi. 4

medibk'? 'Wfillfiex us reckonlhbfimq
minings. yen have:hdd-occafionPSor;xSShiSSfd4
In the firfi place, you. have flepeiiil}: Inn.
:rifc this morning, and that-0:13 good kid;
Rich. Wlth a mattrefs underneatlif'fffig
Mr. Bill. Very? well. MattregggggiuRufl'ed with horfe-hair: this horfc-hair re-i
'quir'es two hands to cut it, two more to
weigh and fell it, two to pick it up and
find it off, two to receive it and uh'packi.
git, and two,- again, to fell it to the faddler or:

3:; upholf'cerer . . lafily, the upholfierer' 5 hands;

find employment in picking. it and filling
" the mattrefs with .it; The chv'er of this
"mattrefi is ticking, where has that been.

Rich.- At the weaver's'..-.
'MI'.B Bill And how?

{us be modeyate, and fayyfor infl'an'ce, 20; -

_' Paf't'e is made, of-flour.". What apamber- of 1

:things mui'c~be- done before w'e'ea'n' have

: flour! How many: huhdredszof handS'tfiuIi--

its-e moved, to make-everything that be:-

{longs to a mill, where wheat 1s ground into i
fianr!---'-Butto xeturn to the wea'Ver': thread

. .e H' 3 , is ,is what he principally ufes ; where does 11C/; 15- 'j-

get this? > . 3 ' '
Rick. From the women who {pin it.
.Mr.- Bill. Out of what.
Rich. Flax. "

Mr. Bill. And do you know, again 3' 3
through how many hands flax mull pafs bej.
fore it'can be fpun? , "

V chb. Oh yes, we, were reckoning that
lately. In the firf'c place, the hufbandmam {
fifts the flax feedtthat it may not be mixed] '

and ploughed twice 5 after which they fow, ,
and then barrow. Next, when the flax bee-S
gins to fprout up, a number of women and
girls come to weed it. Again, when it grows"
to a proper height, they pluck up the l'talksa
and ripple them in order to pull 0!? the little "
round heads that contain the feed.

.Edw. Yes, and then they tie the {talk
together in bundles, and fieep them in r ,;
I water. 3 '

, ~Hemy. And when the bundles havevbeen: i
' fieeped a

L
{teeped long enough, they take, themup out,
of the water. ,

Geo. And fpread them in the fun to dry.

Charlotte. Then they clear the flax from.
the hulls with a break. '

Harmer. Not yet, my. dear. Charlotte; it
mutt be well pounded firfl.

Charlotte. Very true, and then they break.
it, and then---

Ritb. And-then they ftuteb- it, and then!
they hackle it to feparate it from the tow.

Mr. Bill. Now, put: together all thefe:
things, whiehimufl; 'necefi'arily be done be>>
[are we can have linen 5 confider, alfo, how.-
many forts of different labours are required.
to make the inl'cruments ufedv by the hull-
bandman, the flax-drelfer, and the fpinner- ,
and you mul't own I do not exceed the truth"
in faying that more than a thoufand hands,

have been employed m the making of your

mattrefs.
Gee. A thoufand hands ' It IS wonderful,-
and yet it is very true.'
Mr. Bill. In the next place, confider. how
' H 4. many164. THE '11 El'v'v=
many things you have d'eaiiy oecafidn' {612-1 '

A.

and then pray tell me, fhould if furpri'fe? f};

worked fbr' him, and when he h'a'ei 11015 11%
fingle one of thofe ih'fir'um'ents By fne'azi's 6831."
which things ih this part at" the" W6rl'd arc
f0 eafiiy and expeditioufly made'x ' {11" 1

At this time, therefore, what pUZzled him

was the finding of {01111: method of Othei' t6
hinder his dear fire from going 011115131115! '

knOwing what to have recou'rfe to. At 1111f
he fixed his eyes by chance on the nick a?

the edge of his cave, and that 111611161111 $1.116
thought 1'1ka him hOW he was" to 2161.

Hemy. Eh! how was that P ' 1 ,-

Mr. Bill. There projeeied out of the)" -'
rock, about a yard from the g"rou1'_1d,21 Ver" i
large and thick ledge 61' fiche.

,.'_<,5'

Cbarlotte. .'f Charlotte. How/largernight it be'? "
if .1 Mr. Bill. Why really I haVe not been '-

r; ' able to procure the exact proportions of it; ;

if; , but 1 will rappore,' ta: 3 eguefs, that . it was

I? about as'longxas I 'am, its breadth and

1 .

thicknefis might-be a yard and a half. ~
Thoughai-t had rained .very hard, the
groundunder this large piece of the=rock
was perfcflly- dry. . Robinfon- {aw at .once '
that this Jpot would aaner every. purpofe -
of a fire-place, being. completely lheltered-
from all accidents, but he faw, moreover, A
that it would require no great trouble to =
make a proper kitchen under the Paine, to- ,
gether with hearth and chimney, and there- -
fore refolvcd to- .go immediately to work
about' It '
a. ' With his fpadc he holldwed the ground
{:5 ' ' under .the great {tone about a yard deep
After that, he conceived the idea. of en-
clofing. this ground, at the tide, with two v
{mall walls reaching up to the Reno itfelfv.~ .
" ' Geo. , But how could he make wins ? .
Mr..Bz'll. . He had been accufiomed, you r
H 5' _-' know,166 T H 2 N '2, w

know, minutely to remark every thing that 3 3
he met with, and he always alked himfelfifigi

the quefiion, " What ufe may be made off-F3: 3,

ferved a particular fort of clay in one part 0 9
his ifland, upon fight of which he immedi: .
atelyfaid to himfelf, "Perhaps this clay'g,
would make good bricks, if ever I fhould l
have occafion to build a wall." ~ '

At that moment he recolleeted the clay>>,
and, having nearly finifhed hollowing out,'
his kitchen, he took his fpade and his knife 33,
of flint, and repaired to the fpot where this'e'i
clay was to be found, in order to fet about i;
the work without delay. 3 @3335

The heavy rain had made the clay {0:35;
{of-t, that he found no difficulty in {haping 3,3?
it to the form of bricks, and cutting 3.3.3:};
[month with his knife. After preparing a ,3>>:

u

e>>;
4h

<<3

pretty: good number of thefe bricks in a 333333;;
3

7.

fhort time, he placed them, befide each.SSi3'z33-._

   

He determined to go on with this work the .
next day, and in the mean time returned .1 '
home {"1

' .
"hexagram Wm>> 33m new Liam a it

 

ROBINSON cnusoz. 167:
home to eat the reft of his roan meat, the

' eagernelis with which he had worked having
Iharpened his appetite. That he might re- -

gale himfe'lf in a princely-manner on fuch a
day of rejoicing as the prefent, he indulged
himfelf by adding to his {upper a cocoa-nut
{tom the {mall number of thofe that {till

/ remained.

_ The repafi was excellent. " Ah!" {aid
Robinfon, fighing from the bottom of his
heart, which was .partly content and partly
forrowful, (' Ah! how/ happy fhould I be
at this moment, if I had but one fingle
friend, merely a man, were it the molt mi-
ferable beggar in the World, to bear me
company ; one tingle man, whom I might,

.call my friend, while I profefi'ed to him an
equal friendlhip ' Had I, at leait, the hap-'

pinefs of being mailer of fame tame animal,
a dog or a cat, to whom I might fhcw kindg

inefs in order to gain its afieetion! But to

live thus folitary, abfolutely cut of? from
every living creature, and as if I were the

_ only
.168 - 1r s: e "N! e w
only being upon the flames-Here 2 rev?"
tears aropped down his cheeks. , 5I ~.
He then recalled to memory the timezi';
when, having it in his power to enjoy the'eeZq
{WeEt fotie'ty of his brothers and other comifile

pafiio'n's, 'h'e nev'erthelel's' had - {aqua-nail:
V..."

   
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
    

quarrelled ahd'difputed with them: the regt ,_
colleetion of this filled him with bitter rore'g';

tow. " Ah!" laid 'Vhe to himfelf} " how???
little I then knew the value of a friend, anti g
the 'impofiibllity of doing "without the love; ._
and eiteem of our neighbours, if we W0ulC/l7SS '[
{We happy! Oh, if I could now begin t6}:

pars thol'e days over again, with what com-fit

plaifance and good-nature would I behave":
towards my Brathe'rs and other-childrenlg'
'How 'pafiefitl'y Would I pt'it tip with {mall-1:. :
oll'enc'es, and how would'I exert myfelfcof;
charm every body with my gentlenefs and:
good behaviour, and force them to love mefi'
in their 'tui'n !' Heavens! Why did I not:
know how to Value the happinefs of friendg":
fhi'p' until I 'had left that happinefs--alas l .

lofl'it for ever 2" v
With the'fia' Wbr'ds' he turned his. eyes
accidentally toWaids the entrahee 'o'f his
11111216de and perceived a Iiiide'r which
had I?read itd w'eb 1n acorner. T'he 'fh'b'dght
of lying u'h'der the fame rdof with fdine
living 'cre'at'in'e f0 filled him with joy, that
he did nbt trdubi'e hiinfelfi'ri the leafi: 11501:"?
the fpecie'e of the animal. He refohz'ed'
to catch flies every day for this Tpider, t6
Ihew it that it liv'ea 111 a place'of free;
dam and friendfhip, and in order to make
it tame, if it was pofiib'le. - '

As it was fiifl day; and the air,fiefi1ened
by the fibrin, Was infinitely agreeable to
the 121113,- Robihib'h did nbt chufe to go to
bed yet,- and; that he might employ the'
time in 1011112111111 fifeful, he took up his
' {pade again, and began to hollow (hit the
grou'iid fer his kitchen. In- doing this,
he {track all at 6nee' upbh Ibrfiethihg hard

that was iii the earih, and Was ve'r'y "neat" '

breaking hie Ipade.

He teok it at firfli foi- afione; but Whit?

Was his aifoniihtrient,~ When; havirig di'eWd"
out- Ion, however, d1d not, {0 that, infiead of?

' and which they purchafe with f0 many bath? a
'fi

 
  
     
  
 
    
   
   
  
      
 
 
  

170 ,y_ 1111: new

out a great heavy lump of fomething, he dif
covered it to be--pure gold!

Rich. Gracious! Well, he certainly ha
fiu'prifing luck, this Mr. Robinfon Crufpen}

Mr. Bill. Surprifing luck, indeed! Thugsej'
mafs of gold was fo thick, that, had' it beenfiv
coined, it would have produced upwards {a A
of 10,0001. Behold him, therefore, at pref
fent, a man ofvafi fortune! What a numg'fr: is 1,
her of things could he procure himfelftg
now ! He could build himfelf a fine houfeg'g .42
he could haVe a. carriage, horfcs,,footinen,g'c'gr
apes, monkies, he c0uld----- ' is :

Geo. Ay , but where was he to have all:
thefe things in his ifland. P T here was};
nobody there that had any thing to (1311...,

M71821]. Oho! I had forgot. ~--Robin- ; ;,

reioicing for the treafure that he had found,

aetions and even crimes! Of what ufe art.
thou
thou to me? Oh! that, int-thy place, I
' had found: good lilmp of iron, with which

I might, perhaps, have made myfelf a"

' hatchet or'a knife! ' How willingly would
I give thee for a handful of iron nails, or for
fome ufeful infirument. '" ---He left, there--

fore, all this precious treafure lying neg-5:

leeted on the ground, and afterwards, as he .

failed by, fcarce thOughtit worth a look.
Harriet. I'll tell you what, papa. He
did exactly as the cock did. ,
Mr. Bill. What cock. P
Harriet. Oh! do you forget the fable
that you read to us one day? Once upon
a time there was a cock
Mr. Bill" What next. 9

 

Harriet. That fcratched upon a dung. .

hill, and found a---whaPS was it. '

Mr. Bill. A pearl?

Harriet. Ah ! yes ; a pearl--And then-
he faid, " Of what ufe art thou to me with
all thy brightnefs? If I had found, inflead

of thee, a grain of barley, it would have i
been of much more {Ervice to me." Saying

this,-

'172 THE New. 2-
this, he left the pearl on the ground, anefi 3

went away without taking any-farther ride"
the of it. 3'
Mr; Bill. Very good; J'u-fl to did Roi":
b'ihl'oh with the lump of' g'ok'l. . ; $1
Night how am on. The fun had {0'}? .
fom'e time funk beneath the main'd- ' ' '

Gen. What, :21 the fea. ?

lists, and; therefm'e, peeple Tomaimes ex?"
pref?>> themfelves thins, as if the thing
really fo. "
The moon rof'e bright at the other ends.
of the heavens, and than?) 1'0 beautifully m.'
to Robinfon's 'caVe, that the de110htfulnefsy'
of the view hindered him frOm going tqi;
fleepr ' '\
Hewitt. Oh! look, look, dEar papa ,4"; '
our moon too begins to appear yond'er. - 'g
Rich Oh! What an enchanting fight"

how mild he'r light IS l how pleafi'ng',ROB msou 'cnnsos. 173'
. Mr. Bill. Well, my cleats, Rbbinfon is

Vafleep, while his fire, kept up by largepicces
of wood, continues to burn. (lowly. Now,
what do you think .of doing in the mean
time? _ , .
A Edw. I think, at leafi, that I'Ihall hardly
'31 _ fleep' much to-night, I am fo impatient to
E3 :know therei'c of Robinfon's adventures.

  

  

 

~END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.--..-'_n.....--5-----v~s--'r""""'"" - " '

'1-
:-1'38

Afi msrnvlcn-va AND numxnmmo
H I S T 0 R Y,
:01: THE USE or \

CHILDRE'N'QF BOTH SEXES.

  
   

~,~:'

 

, Embelliihed with Thirty-two beautiful Cuts.

 

5
'VOL II.

SEC'OND E_D>>ITION.

- LONDON:

hinted for Jon>>! Swocpuu, Oppofite Burlington
Houfe, Piccadilly. .

11 Dec Lxxxgx'
ham a: Miami wt. \

$

 

3 NEWR'OBINSON VCRUSOE';

_ TRANSLATED Elton/13313 FRENCH. '
 

. WWFWWA.3.WrC/

.THE

 

. 1
l

' SEVENTH EVERNLNGu: ,
THE following evening, befoqulj, Bil-
lingfley began the conxzim-lation.,~of
Robinfon Crufoe's hiftory, . he exprefl'ed
himfelf thus: I hope, my dear children,
that, in relating this hil'cory. to you, I' do
not detain you from any employment more
agreeable or improvina. I would not put _'
the leaf: conftrainbon you 5 f0 that whenever '
our friend ' Robinfon, gzjows tirefome to
.you-----.

VOL. II. _ .Ag. Edw.'4 '1' n r. n n w _ 33%
Edw. Tirefome, papa. > It' IS impoflibIei
Mr. Bill. However, I obferved fomezoegy

you, yefierday evening, gape and yawn a":

good deal. 3%: 3 3;,- _
Geo. Oh! papa, the reafon of that was, 5%;

I

that we had worked very hard 1n our gar): -

night. 2% 3 3
Edw. To- day we have only been weed-3g

we are quite freih: 3.33
Harriet. Oh! quite fi-efh, papa, -~ 1 00k '
how I can jump. 1? 7-;3
Mr. Bill; Well, you have only to tel!"'SS"3

'heavy or dull... ;.3
Rich. Oh! never fear, I'll warrant-yon," .
Mr. Bill. Then I proceed. .

to work at 11'. very early 1n the morning, or elfe
in the cool of the evening. He rofc, there; i
fore, before the fun,'put 'frelh wood to his
fire, and'ate the half of a cocoa nut that he '
had left fince the evening befdre. After
this he intended to have put another joint
of his lama on the fpit 5 but he found the
flefh already tainted, on account of the ex~
traordinary heat. He' was, therefore, ob-
liged to go without the pleafure of eating
meat for that day '

Upon this, he prepared to fet out for the
clay--pit; and, putting on his pouch, he
found {till remaining in it the potatoel
which he. had brought. home two days be-
fore. He refol'ved to try the experiment
of drefling them ; f0 put them down- clofe
by his fire, and having covered them with
hot afhes, he i221: out. '

He worked lb hard, that before twelve
o'clock he had prepared as many bricks as
he thought he fhould have occafion for, to
complete the wall of his kitchen. He next
went down to the :beach to look for Tom:
loyfiers 5 but infiead of oyflers, of which he

A 4. _ found.
ter than any that he had found yet.
Rich What was that, papa. ?

     
   
 
  

Ric/a. Well, then, what was it. P i ,7,

Mr. Bill. A turtle, and f0 large, that it? 3i}, :

is rare to fee the like in thofe parts. Itz':

might weigh 1001b. "EUR13 "
Geo. Why, it mui't have been a mo'nl'tert .

of 0 turtle. Are there leally fuch great?

i ones. 9

people found in the South Seas weighed PS1;
3001b.
Geo. 3001b. <<aflonifhingl

with his prize, and marched flowly home;
wards. .n o 3 INS o-N QR1U'%70 E: 7;}.
wards.--[See~ the Prong/piece (a this Yakima]
.--When he arrived at hiscell, his firPc care;
was to come at the fleih'of thetuftlemhich
he did, at length, by cuttingbpen, with his'
hatchet, the lower [hell that covered its
belly ;Jie:then,killed it, and Cut 0&' a good
part of it to roaft, which, having fixed app,
on'the 'fpit, he Waited with inipatienceauntili
it was done, for his~.work had' confiderablyt'
Iharpened his appetite. - z -

While he turned the fpit, he confidered

4 with himfelf what he mufl do with the tel}:
"fig of the turtle, to. keep it from" taintingg To
{alt it would, have been the only. eEeetfual
way, but then he had neither tub 1101' {22115.9
It filled him_with concern to thinktha'g

all that fine 'turtle,"the flefh of. which would
nonrifh him for more than a week,.miift:be
unfit to eat the next day; and yet; he _ could

. not think of any expedient to fave it. I All
at once a thought {truck him. The upper

' fliell'of the turtle was ihaped like a large
~ - f ~'bowl.- " Thet,".faicl he, ":Ihall {encam

' ' ~ A 5 , for- "' Only think, 'what a great fool I mufh'y'tfi'
be i" cried. he, {hiking his hand: againfl; his; g
head; " cannot lifteep this meat in fea-wa;
ter, and will not that have the fame efl'ee'tfifi,
or nearly f0, that brine would: have? A713? .
lucky thought! a lucky thought '3' cried '
he; and. his joy made him turn the fpiw
twice as fall: as before. -4' >
' ' His turtle was now nicely done. " Ah WK _
{aid Robinfon, lighing, after he had tal'tedg';."
'with much fatisfaetion, a fmall bit of it} A
which he thought very favoury, " if one had; "
the leafi: morfel of bread with this! How} "
- Itupid was. I, in my youth, not to: knovtf
that we tihoul'd thank God for a bit 05%;.
dry bread !: I was feld'om contented if?
'my' bread was not loaded with butter, and} ;
even then, perhaps, 'I mutt have cheefeig-
Oh idiot that 1 was; How happy- {hould If; '
now be 'with a piece of the blackefl: tyeg,
bread that ever was made in "my country. lit, .

Wink; '

       
   
    
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
  

P?"-
:-i.

z
.i
nonlnson ck'vsos.' '9'

While he was taken up with thefe reflec-
tions, he recolleeted the potatoes that he
had left in the afhes before. he went out in
the morning. " Let us fee," faid he,' " how
they will turn out 5" and he took up one-of
them; ,-

Here was new caufe of rejoicing! The
fruit, which was before fo hard, was now
become quite tendersand when he opened
it, the fmell was fo pkafing, he never heli-
tated to conclude that the tafle mutt be-
equally fo. In efi'eft, this root rated as
agreeable--as agreeable as Eh l>> Who
will help me out with a Emile. P ' .

Mr. Mam}. As agreeable as a potatoe.

 

Mr. Bill. Even- fo. That fettles it alE I

in one word. In ihort, Robinfon perceived;
that this root, which was fer agreeable to the
mile, would fupply the place of. bread

He made, therefore, a magnificent re.
pal't; after which, as the fun was burning
hot, he threw himfelf on the bed fbr a
while, to corilider at his eafe what work he

A6 . mould;was over. W g :5
" What piece of work" fa-'id he, " {hould

I undertake at prefent. P T he fun inuifgl'i,
harden my bricks before I can begin inifli z-e.
wall. The bef'c way then, certainly, will be

meat 2--What, if I lhould hang up fome oEURf
it to dry 1n the fmoke of my kitchen. F'--
, Excellent-l" cried he, and with thefe words:
he bounced from his bed, and fat down 111;
the front of his intended kitchen, to deg; '3'.
liberate on the means of fucceeding 1n this: '
plan. , ' . 1:,
He prefently faw that the thing might be3 '1 ;'
done well enough. He had only to leave 1'"
two holes 1n the walls that he was to bulldfliir '
and through them to run a large {tick}; 3:3
gacrofs. It was an eafy matter to hang his 1:1;

_ hams and flitche-s upon this, and the fmoke is?
of the chimney would do the re&. This}:

happy thought was near turning his head with :2 'nostnso'mcazvson. In"

, joy. What would he have given that his bricks
, were already hard enough, that he might
begin the grand work that very moment!
But there Was no help for it; he muff be
content to wait until the fun hardened his
bricks. ' A ' '
Something, however, muft be dbne'to'
employ 1he time. While he meditated what}
thatfhould be, a fifefh thought firuek'hihi,

-' r 9-}

5'"?

is}: which by far Impaired, jin' clevernefs,'5all
$3 that he had hitherto conceived. And he Was-
3 af'conilhed at his folly m not having hit up:
"3" on it before. - - -

e ' . Rich. What was it, then .P' a .
'i 3 'M. Bill. No more than this; he'rel'olv-t
33 ed, in order 'that'h'e: might have company

and at the fame time provide for his fub-' 7
fii'tenee, to bring up fometame animals."
Gee. -' Ahglz' form of the latnas', -'I- id'are'fay' 'i
Mr. Bill. Right. In fac't, thefe were
the only animals that he had feen hitherte.i
As thefe lamas appeared already to be ex>>:
tremely tame, he hoped he {hould fuce:
ccedin taking .a couple of them- alive; 3" "
Geo.

 

\'12 , Tun-newt,
Geo. Oh! that would be delightful" 1.."
fhould like. to be along with him, to have

another couple. , V
' M. Bill. B-ut pray George,.how woulaiex

"you contriVe it? T hey: were hardly fO-tamet": \

as to let themfelves be caught. a r:
Geo. Then how did Robinfon meanto. '

' do 2.

, Mr. Bill. That was the very point that,

' Robinfon had many long and ferious delibe-a
But man, where an under-

taking is not>> in itfelf abfolutely- impofiibleeg
man needs but to will ferioufly and with;
perfeverance, and nothing is infurmountaQE e
ble to his underfianding and indufiry; fo-'SS
great and. manifold are the faculties with?
which, our good Creator hath endowed us 3' ' '
Attend to this, my dear children, and} _
never defpair of fuccefs in any labour or E
difficulty whatfoever, provided. 4-5
- the firm refolution of not givi D ' _
you have accomplilhed it. Unwearied ap--fl-I'}
plieation, confiant refleetion,.and a courage;
that perfeveres in fpite of every obliacle, 5-:

 

 

rations upon.nonnts'ox CRUSOE. :3'.
have often brought enterprizes to a period

. ' which- were-- at fitl't deemed imprae'ticable.

Never, therefore, fufl'er yourfelves to be dif-
couraged by the difficulties which you will
meet with in the afi'aireof life; but always
reflect that the more exert-ion it has coil: to
bring a bufinefs to a happy ifi'ue, the more:
joy one feels at having accomplifhed it.
Robinfon foon fucceeded in hitting upoq

' a method to take the lamas alive.

Rick. What was it 3

Mr. Bill. He propofed to make a mole
upon a cord, and, hiding himfelf behind a
tree, to throw the noofe over the head of the
firfl: lama that. fhould approach.

With this intent, he twif'ced a pretty
i'trong cord, and in a few hours' the cord and
the noofe were completed : he made atri.
a1 or two to fEe whether the noofc would
catch well, and it anfwered perfeetly to his

- wifh. - , ,
As.the~ place by which the; lamas- were
accul'tomed to pafi, in their way to the wa.

ever, was pretty far off, and becaufe he was
' notnot fure whether they .would pafs by theret'gi; a
that evening, as it was about noon that heft . is '
faw them go to drink before, he put ofii tilt; fi
next day the execution of his project: i1"; ii:
the mean time he made the preparations; ;.
requifite for the Journey. . ' ' . .' I i
That 15 to fay, he went to the fpot where: t
the potatoes grew, and filled his bag with:
them. Part of them he put down 1n the'e}; .;
warm aihes to mail, and the reft he threw Rig. . ;

into a corner of his cave for a future floral?" 2%
In the next place, he cut ofi' a pretty large if?

f}! '.

brought with him for the purpofe.

Lafily, he dug a {mall hole in the ground, Egg:
which was to be his cellar, for want of 311::
better. In it he placed his turtle fhell with; .1; '
the falted meat, placed over that the piece
that he meant to roaft for fupper, and then ;
covered the whole with fmall branches of:
trees. '

For the ref: of the afternoon, in order to ;;
refrefh if; .-.. XV} 6'

.ffigamimtmzetm

'ifi'ififi'ififfnwl'ff'lhfifi "1'" ' .
. g "

R o B 1 N38 0:11 :'inR U so E.' 15..>>

refrefh his fpirits, he indulged jhimfelf'with

- an agreeable walk. along the 'feavfide, Where

there blew a fine ftefh eallzerly breeze,
which rendered the air agreeably cool.
His eyes traverfed with pleafure the im-
menfe ocean, whofe furface was then gently
agitated by fmall' waves following each
other in flow fuo'ceflion to. the fixore; He
turned his eyes fondly towards the part of

i the world Where his dear country was fi-

tuated, and a few trembling tears trickled
down his checks at the remembrance of
his beloved parents. s

" What are they doing now, thofe poor

fidifconfolate parents?" cried he, bathed 1n
'tears, and clafping his hands together.

" If they have furviVethhe bittergforrow
which I :Unhappily have cetfled them, alas!

what grief confdmes their days; ' How mufl: 1

they figh to behold themfelves childlefis; to

Ice their lal'c, their only ibn, become a trai- _

tor to their love, and abandoning them {-01-
ever! Oh my deareft, belt of fathers. * my
tender, afi'eeliohate mother! pardon, ah,

pardon'16 'run NEW

pardon your unhappy fon. for thus afliiehn
you! And thou, O Heavenly Father,3: .
prefent my only father, my only fociety, my} 1
only fupport and protector l--[here he threw, p
himfelf upon his knees in the pollute. of .
adoration]----Oh, my Creator, lhed thy moi}:
1i

precious blellings, ihed all the happinefo
which thou hal't defiined for me, and off,

.ihed them upon my dear parents, whom
have ('0 gr1evoufly offended, and thus con
{ole them for their lbfi'erings. Ah! hoWe, ,
chearfully will I endure whatever difpenfagh l,
~tion it {hall pleale thy wifdom and mercy;-
to appoint for me in order to my future}; 'gi
amendment, could but my poor parents: I'
who are innocent, be made happy "' 1:.
He remained a little longer on his knees;1:jiu
looking up to Heaven 111 filent grief, and 3
his eyes fwimming in tears. At length- ',
,he rofe, and, with his knife of flint, he cut
out upon the tender bark of a. tree that
was at hand, the much-loved names of his

q,

E:

('0

D

a

0

<1

0

*1

on

21"

(0

a

:I"

(D

'1'",--

O

(b

.9,.

5%

55

n

" e

'7 a,

. o 'm_

' ""111. D
" "flMW
'" God blefs you 1'" and- below, 9' Mercy. to
your lofl: Ion !" After that, his lips, warm
with afi'eetion, kifl'ed . the names which he
had cut Out, and he bedewed them with his '
tears. He afterwards engraved thefe fame
names, which were fb dear to him, upon. a
number of other trees in other parts of the
ifland, and, item that time forward, he ge--
nerally ofi'ered up his prayers at the foot of
one of thefe trees, and never failed to re-
member his parents in them.

Geo. For once, I think, he behaved
well, . .

Mr. Bill; He is, at prefent, in the fait-
efi train to become an honef'c and good
man, and for this he is indebted to the
wife Providence of Heaven which con-
due'ted him hither. '

Geo. He might now, thercfbre, return to
his parents, if Providence thought fit.

Mr. Bill. God, who foieiees every thing
that will happen, knows befl what is for the
advantage of any man, and? will regulate
the events. of. his life accordingly. It is i

" true,

I

 

Tififlflk'fififiifirfifiwfia'g :3;- "I", ~ t .A

 

i

I":
ii"
ELI
ii ~'
g; .
i3. . ;

 

o>> -.v' :'a' <
mama."

 

. SS;EURa'f 711' '.18 - T H 3311.}: w _
true, circumflances have kindled a fiadrli '
.of virtue in Robinfon' 5 bread, but who (1;: i
can tell if other circumftances would not SS%
7 quickly extinguilh this {park again- , and if; i
he was at this moment taken from hisi'gfiiA
ifland, and ref'cored to his father's houfe; if ,
who knows whethex the infection of exam;-
ple and profperity would not corrupt him
once more? Oh, my children, how jufi: 13
this precept, " Let him that flandeth take}
heed left he fall 1" g; 1

While Robinfon walked backwards and: 3' '7

forwards on the beach, it occurred to hunt

   

    
 

. his lhirt, the only one that he had! _, ,
he had worn it without fhifting for f0 long ,'
a time, and in ft) hot 3. climate, one could .1 i
-fcarcely perceive that the linen had ever:
been: white. Wherefore,'before he bathed}
himfelr' he took care to 117th- this Ihirt as
well as polii'ble, and, having hung it upon 1
a tree to dry, he jumped into. the water.R OBINso'N c112 mson. 1'9"

'
He had learned to ifwim pretty early, 3

{0 that, being ,perfeet mafler of the exer- ' '

_ cife, he amufed 'himfelf with fwimming out
to a good difiance from fhore' towards a
neck of land that extended. pretty far into I
the fea, and upon which he had never been
yet.

l

Charlotte. A neck of land? What is ~ i
that? i '
Mr. $27!. We givethat name to a long
piece of land, one end of which joins an I
ifland or a'continent, and the other firetches
out into the'fea.- You underftand? . I
Cbarlotte. Oh, perfee'tly. ' ' '
Mr. Bill. This thought of Robinfon's
was very lucky; for he found that the neck '
of land was, during the time of high wa- - i" j
ter, entirely covered, and that, on the eb-
bing of the tide, a Confiderable quantity 0f
turtles, oyfters, and mufcle's, were left be-
hind. This time, indeed, he could not
carry any of them away, neither did he
want them at prefent, as his kitchen-was
fufliciently fiored: however, the difcover'y

of

 

.
-,
f
I

" ' ' W 3.)" ' rWWmMWfiWmW'Sm'"T3'"3m:3'SS3f'
,Mw.' '<<u .1 .n'e >> :.. I" ' _ ' ' . ' .' (

 

 

 

h i ',
vW
'
 
 
       
     
  
 

could almoi't have caught them with his "31";
hands. If he had had a net he might have: it?

kings, that he might one day or other be: i 3?>>?
matter of a fifhing net. - ,3 ',

' out of the Water, after having been a {1111 fig '
hour 1n it. The heat of the fun had en-figjj
tirely dried his 111m, and he had the plea-"a;
fine once more of putting on clean linen. 1;;

Irefleeting upon every thing, he confideredflif i
that this pleafure could not laf't very long fig '
for, having but one ihirt, he was obliged 5,19%:

to wear it conItantly, and, when it was? 433'
EUR333Ron-mow emu-son; 2'!" J
. had drefi'ed himfelf; returned to his habitat-
I tion, frequently repeating to himfelf, " Tho '
Lord be praifed for all things !" '

Ric/a. He is right now not to fufi'er him.
{elf to be cafi down or deipond, but to put
; reafonable trui't 'in Providence.

Harriet. Oh, how I {hould like to flee
Robinfon. I am very fond of him.'

Geo. If papa Would only give nie paper,

1 fhould like to write him a letter. _
Edw. So would I too. '

Rich. And I ; it would give me great.
pleafure to write to him.

Harriet. Well, fo it would me, if I knew
how to write. '

Mr. Bill. My dear, you {hall tell me

what you would fay to him 5 I will write
for you.

Harriet. Oh, thank ye, mama, that
.willdo charmingly. - ' _ ,-
Mrjr. 8171. Come, then, I will. give you
all paper; . '
Upon this, they retired to the next
room for about half an hour, at the end

' ' of

.ffifz'W-t" W

 

"wzafiztwmm'ttr'M' flwm'fimim

-'<<.~=>>_~ nwmsaametfi .r-me-"Mw "-rwmwm <<5.:

,M'f'" >MflfPSqzi

. ""3
of which time they all returned. in -g1'EURi;t">
fpirits, with each his letter in his handlhr;
Harriet. Here, papa, here is my'lc'tt'er
pray-be-fo good as to read it.'- - \- i: J,
Mr. Billiflgflbl)' reads: ' '1'

- " My dear 'Robinfon, ,, ..

'Y Take pains to be indufirious and goo'iig: ~_':
that will pleafe every body, and efpecially.
your father and. mother. You now 'ifeee
how ufeful it is to' fufi'er a little hardfh-ifi;
George and Richard fend their complimentsfg -
to you; fo do Henry and Edward. Comefg I
fome day and fee us, I'will then tell yd???
more. HARRIET;""W '

  
  
 
  
 
  
  
    

Geo. Now mine, papa: here it is.
Mr. Billing/lay reads :
" My dear friend,

" We wiih you all the happinefs poifible,;j
and as foon as I get fome pocket-money I
will buy you fomething. And go on, 5;>>

.>>-you have begun, to be a good lad. I fendg
' you along with .this forne bread; and takeff
careqiot to fall lick. How is your health 2;;a 5W ' 5515555: 1 'gmwzweww

ROBINSON Cnuson. 23

I wifh you well, d'Car Robinfon, thongh- I
do not know you 5 yet I like you very well, '
and am y0ur faithful friend,

GEORGE BILLIN'GSLEY.
Twick'mbam, Fee. 7, 1788."

Edw. Well, here is mine 5' but I {cur it.
is too fhort. '
Mr. Billingrlqv read: :

" Dear Robinfo'n, .

- f' I am forry that you are {0 unfortunate.
If you had [laid at home, thefe misfortunes
would never have happened. Take care
of yourfelf, and return as {con as poflible' to
your dear parents. Once more, take care .A
of yourfelf. I am your faithful friend,

EDWARD BILLmGSLEirJ' '

Rick. Now mine. - Iris my turn'nc'xt.~ '
M. Billingsley reads: '
" Honoured Robinfon,
"I pity you very much, that y'ou-'a'rC/-';-' '
thus feparated from every living creature!
I {uppole you areforry for it yourfelfi'at-pre;

VOL.' II. B ' fent.
fent. I wifh, with all my heart, that you, .
may be able, fome day or other, to return," W
to your dear parents. Fail not, for the fut '3; ,_ " '
ture, to put your trufi: in Providence on all
occafions: you will fare the better for it. 157"-
fay, again, take care of your health.
I am,
Your fincere friend,
RICHARD BILLINGSLEY.'

Twickenbam, Feb. 7, 1788."

Henry. Mine, I am afraid, is good for;

nothing.
.Mr. Bill. Let us fee.
Hemy. I only wrote a few words in a hur-

' *ry, that I might have done as foon as the rei'ta 'i
Mr. Billingslqy reads :

" My dear Mr. Crufoe,

" How goes the world with you yonder

in your ifland? I am told you have. met

with a good many turns of fortune. You .'

cannot tell yet, I fuppofe,whether your ifland ,

is inhabited or not 2 *1 fhould be very 3

glad to know. I underfi'a'nd too that you 1
have>>ROBiNS-oN CRU-slozx 25'

. ' have found a great lump of gold ; but there-
in your ifland it is of no fervice to'you."--'-
[114m Bill-.'You might have added, nor here
in Europe neither. ~The greatelt quantity

_ of gold that a-man. can poll'efs will never
render him either better or happier.]--" It-
would have been better for you "had you
found Tome iron inflead of it: you could,
then, have made yourfelf a knife, 3. hatchet,
and other tools. I wifh you-well;

' And am,_

'Your faithful friend,

HENRY Bi-LLINGSLEY.'
Twickenbam, Fefi. 7, 1788."

Geo. But now, after all, how are we to
fend our letters E

Harriet; We need only give them to'
fome captain of a {hip that is going to South .
America 5 and then too we can [end him
fomething. I will fend him fame apple's--7
and Tome walnuts. You'll give me fome '
for him--won't you!" mama? . _ '

Rich. (Wei/[wing his; father) They are i

. B 2.fo {oft as to think that Robinfon C.'51'111'oa::is"SS1a
11111 alive. 4 , .121
Mr. Bill. My dear children, I thank 31011;};
in Robinfon' 5 name, for the kindnefs that;
you ihew him, but as to thefe letters, iti: -
won 't be 1n my power to fend them. " 1

Geo. La! why not. > .-
M7.Bz'll. By reafon that Robinfon has?

been long fince in heaven, and his body is; '1' " '

returned to duft. .
Geo. Ah! what, is he dead? and but: '17:;

juft now he has been bathing h1mfelf '
Mr. Bill. You forget, my dear Georoc, .

But I am now writing his hifiory, and {balli-
take care to have your letters printed along 1

Harriet. Oh! that will be eharmingj :3
But in the mean time, I fuppofe, papa, you"?
will go on telling usfomething of him. if;

Mr. Bill. With pleafure.1 have thingsi-

to tell you {1:111 that will pleafe you as: .v'vell'fi ;
. .. . as 1'"

.11
.35 What' you have already'hear'd. But for

this evening, I think, wehave had enough.

.------Robinfon, after bathing himfel'f, went

home to his dwelling place,- are his flipper,

faid'his prayers, and went to refi Conte'nt'edly.
And it is time for us to do, f0 too.

EIGHTH EVENING].

MR. Bill. Wei}, where did we leave
of? lafi night? ; ,

Hemy.WhereRobinfbn- went to 'bed' after
bathing; _ . -

Mr. Bill. ,Oh I right.---Weli, then, Ro-
binfon roll: the next'morning early, and pre-
pared for the chace. 'He furnifhed his
pouch with plenty ofroafied potatoes, and 'a
good large flice of roafied turtle, which he
wrapped up in the leaves of the ectoamut

' B 3 , tree.fide, tied the cord, which he had made the
day before for catching the lamas, round his

began his march. '.
It was very early , he relblved, therefore, '
for this time, to take a round, in order to?
imake himfelf acquainted with fome otheri} Bi:
'parts of h1s ifland. Amongf't the numbers 0 .
various birds that fluttered about the treesfi
he remarked fome parrots, the colours 0
whofe plumage we1 e extraordinary beautiful."
How did he wifh to have one of them tha
he might tame it, and have it for his co .' . '
panion! But the old ones Were too cm ' '
ning to be caught, and he could no wher
difcover a nefi with young ones. A He was
obliged, therefore, to put 06' the gratificatio
,of this with until fome other opportunity.
In returnfor this difappointment, he dif-Zij '2
:covered, in the courfe of his walk, a thing;
much more necefl'ary'to him than a parrot,"
for, getting to the top of a. hill near the Tea;
fide, and looking down between the cracks

of
of the rock, he faw ' fomething lie on the
. ground which excited his curiofity. He
let himfelftdown by the aHiftance of his feet
and hands, and found, to his great fatisfacg
" tion, that it was--~what do you think 3
' Henry. Pearls, perhaps. '

Rich. Yes, truly, the fight of pearls
would have given him great fatisfaetion ! Per-
haps it was iron-.-

Edw. Nay, do not you know that iron- is

not to be found in hot climates? It was, per- .

, haps, another'lump of gold.

Harriet. Nonfenfe! Would that have
made him glad? Gold was of no ufe to
him,'you heard before.

Mr.,Bi-ll. I fee you will not be able to

guels, then; I will tell you. What he
found was--falt.

Hitherto he had,_it is true, in fame re- =

fiyeelz, fupplied the want of falt with {ea-wa-
ter 5 but, after all, rim: was nOt falt. The '
{ea-water has a bitter tafle which is very
difagreeable ; and, befides, it was a millake to-
think that meat falted in this manner would

B4." keep 5

"WA"... ..,3o ' '1" 11 E N E 'W _
keep; becaufe {ea-w ater, as well as that bf?

a {pring or river, grows itinking after" 1t hang?
flood fome time. It was, therefore, a very ":1 - i
_ lucky thing that he found fome real falt, and $142; :..
he filled both his pockets with it, in ordeE "hi

to fupply himfeh' with a ftock for immedi-. 15* '-

(.'I

ate ufe ' ' E I

what I told you one day concerning th'
original offalt. P A 'i is: 1

Rick. Oh. ' yes , I recolleet 1t fiill. Some 331 ' 3'
they take out of the earth, {time they make .- '
affair-water that flows 1n fprings, and fome,
again, is made from {ea-water.

- water is either prepared by men or by the
fun.
Gm. The fun. 9
_..Mr Bill. Yes; for when any {ea-water
15 left upon the land, after a high tide, or a.
flood, the fun makes the water by degreeS

to evaporate, and what remains on the fpoc
is then falt. ' ..
R'O'B'I'N'S'OZN' on U'S'OE. 3i?-
Harrz'et.' Well, that iseomical.- - - ' ~ .
Mr. Bill. See'with what kindn'efe Heaven"
provides for us! .That which we can leafl: do-
wi'thout, does always require. the~vieafl prea-
.paration by art, and is always. found 'i-n'ther ,
greateflzfabundancer V .
Robinfon went in high fpiri't's- to-the place:
where he hoped to noofe a lama.- When:
he came there,_,he faw' none; but thenit;
was not quite n'oon..~ He {at dow'h, there;
{ox-e, at the- foot of a tree to regale himfelfr. - ,.
with "his roafl turtle and potatoes-.. How: '
much more favoury did they tai'te to him: i
now that he- hadz'alit'tlc fair. to eat with;
them !- ' - ,.
Jufl as- he had fitiiihed' his' meal; ath'e'lae-
mas appeared at'a-difiance, coming towards;
him with ikips agd bounds. Robinfon' .
Iquickly placed, hiinfelfin-a pofi'ureo'f at~ '
tack, and waited with his noofefready-for:
the approach of. one of. the lamas.n ' Several
had pafi'ed him beyond his reach ;; _but,.a11'SS
at once, there came, up one f0 near to him,
that he fcaree needed more-than: to drop:-

B 52' the:the noofe to have him fafl: in it.

foner. . ._ _._'
The poor beafl: would have bleated, but;

left that {hould frighten. the refi, Robinfon: _ -
pulled the noofe 'fo tight, that the lama Was
completely filenced.. He then dragged it 3352171}

 
  
 
  
     
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

fal't as he could. into. a. thick coppice to. hide}; f
it from the rel't. ' , 33%

llf' _- r

This lama was a female, and had two's-'3
young ones, which followed her, to the-{3%,}.
great fatisfae'cion of Robinfon, and did noi ' "
appear to be the leaft afraid of him. He /
patted the pretty little things, and they--3 A.
juf'r as if they would have begged of him to 53+
let their mother go--licked his hands.

Geo. Well, then, I think he might have
let her go. I ' '

Mr. Bill. He would have been a great .

fool in doing fo. . . >>
Geo. Nay, the poor creature had done him ,
no harm however. ' l 5% _
~ Mr. Bill.' But he had occafion. for it ;E -
and you know, my dear George, W are l
- permitted-71ft; :
Ron'znsoN' 'CRUSOE. '33:

permitted to make ufe of animals in cafe of ~
need, provided we do not abufe them.

Robinfon. was tranl'ported. with joy at:
having {0 happily attained his objeet. He
; dragged the creature along with all his:
firength, though {he jumped and lkipped' a
good deal to get from him, and the two little
ones followed quietly behind. The fhortefl:
way was now the bell: for Robinfon, and
purfuing that, he at length arrived happin
at his dwelling place.

But here {tar-ted a difiieulty. How was
he to get the lama into his enclofure, which),
as. we have laid before, was fo firongl-y bar.
ricadedv allround ? To fling it- downl from;
the top of the rock, by means of a. cord,.was;
not at all advifeable 5' the poor animal might;
be firangled in the way. Robinfon refolved,
- therefore, to make up a little {table neanhis;
place of abode, and there to keep the larna
and her young ones, until he lhould be: able
to fuit his conveniency better.

In the mean time he fafizened the animal'e
to a tree, and immediately fellto works; that:

B 6 . ~ is;r
I

 

34. T H E .N- E W x ;%

them in the ground, fo clofe, one befide the

 

   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 

is to fay, he cut down with his hatchetLof:
flint a number of young trees, and fixed-

other, that they formed a pretty {trong wall~,SS. . "
While this was doing, the lama lay down;
through wearinefs, and the little ones, no ' _'
Way troubled at their being prifoners, were
fucking quite unconcerned, and feafiingfigf
't-hemfelves at their cafe. ' f

What a pleafing fight was this to Robina;
fon'. Above a dozen times he flopped fronti-
his wOrk to look at the pretty little crea- it ' '
tures, and thought him'felf beyond. meafurev if
happy in having fome animated beings to?
hear him company. From this moment his;
life feemed no longer folitary, and the joy
which he felt from this refleetion, gave him- f"
fuch firength and aetivity, that his liable-32
was very foon finifhed : he then put the la- *3 '
ma and her young ones into it, and clofed g.
up the lafi opening with branches firmly?
interwoven. ' 5

What was his (fatisfaetion now! It is .1

impollible for words to defcribe it. Bea;
' fides,'nontnson .cn'nson. 35

'fides the company" of the lamas, which of
itfelf was a valuable thing, he promifedr
himfelf many other great advantages, and
with much reafon: for in time he might
_Y=>erhaps learn to make {ome fort of death--
ing with the wool of thefe animals, he might
ufe their milk for food, he might make but-
ter and cheefe of it. It is true, he did not
yet know by what means he fhould at-
tain thefc obieets, which. were {till fo far-
difiant; but he had already experienced that

no man'ihould 'defpair of his kill or per?

formance, provided he gives his whole mind
to the work, and applies to it with perfe-
vering attention.

There wanted fiill one thing to eompiete- '

his happinefs : he wiflied to be in the fame
enelofure with his dear lamas,'th~at he might
have them always before his eyes when he
was at home, and enjoy the/fatisfaetion of
feeing them grow fond of his company

He puzzled himfelf a long time to find
how he flmuld aecomplilh this: at length,

his determination was to break dovm one fide
, of

\
of his wall of trees, not grudging whateve'p '1; :
labour it might cofi him, and to make ano.i .' L

{I

ther wall that would take in a larger fpacef" : j,

prudently refolved not to break the old wallflg .
until he had finiihed the new. in Jim ;
Thanks to his indefatigable pains, the"; .7
work was finifhed m a few days, and theii: ge w
Robinfon had the fatisfaetion of being in the a '
fame habitation with his three domefiic comiffi .1
panions. This, however, did not make hi i ' _.
forget his firfl companion, the fpider, which?!" I
he provided every day with gnars and flies: "
The fpider, foon perceiving that he ufed he}? ,1 ; .
as a friend, grew fo tame, that, whenever he": ;
touched her web, {he would come out and

receive from his hand the fly that he held to:
her. 2;:

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  

fond of his fociety.

home, they came jumping to meet him; they}:
would L
Would fmell about him to find whether he
had brought them any thing, and gratefully
lick his hand whenever he gave them frefll
grafs or young branches to eat;
\1 After this he weaned the young~ones,'and
then began to milk the dam regularly morn-
' ing and evening. His cocoa-nut ihells
ferved him for pails and milk pans, and this
milk, which he ufed partly fweet and partly
curdled, contributed not a little, by its agree-
able tafie and nourifhing quality, to render
his {olitary life fiill more tolerable.

As his cocoa-nut tree was ufefui to him
in fo many refpeees, he was extremely de~
firous to find a method of producing more
of them. But how was he to contrive it%

He had often heard of grafting trees, but,

the manner in which it was done had neVer
excited his curiofity. " Oh," faid he to
himlhlf, " how little is the advantage that I
. have reaped from the years of my childhood;
when I had time and opportunity to- have
learnt fo much! Ah! if 'I had known my
own interefl: better, fliould I not have taken

noticenotice of every thing that I faw or heard 3
And if my capacity did not allow me to aiv { 1
rive at the height of learning which manyge
men attain, I ihould at leai't have come near;
it, and how ufeful would every thing that .,
.I could have learnt be to me at this prefe'nt}
moment." Oh. ' if I could grow young
again, how attentive would I be to ever'yii',
thing that IS executed by the hands or i114

dufiry of men ' There 15 not a trade nor: an

misfortune was now pafi remedy. It wafii
therefore, his bufinefs to exert himfelf 1

courfe that he took.

Without knowing whether he was righ
or wrong, he cut of- the tops of two be:
three young trees; in the middle of tlie
trunk he made a {mall flit, in which he
flock a young twig {10111 the cocoa-nut tree, '
he then covered round with thin bark the
place where he had made the flit, and waited
With impatience for the refult of his labour.
This, too, fucceeded with him, After fume
ti ne the Tuckers began to bud, and now he

ad found a method to produce a whole grove
' of cocoa- nut trees. .

Here was a frefh caufe for rejoicing, and
for entertaining the moft lively gratitude to-
wards our Creator, who has implanted in the-
nature of things fuch virtues and qualities,
that living creatures are no where 1n want of
means to preferve thfanfelves, and render:

their condition agreeable.

Both the old lama and the young were in a
fliort time grown as tame as dogs. He began,
therefore, by little and little, as occafion re--
quired, to make them (em: for carrying
burthens, e'fpecially whenever he went out for

any thing that would have been too much
trouble for himfelf to carry.

Rich. Ay ,. but how could he take'them

with him when there was no way for them
to go out of the enclofure. 3 '

3 Mr. Bill. I forgot to tell you, that,' m the

new;

:"lt4o "r111: N E'W' .
new wall, at a part where it touched a Clot; ,
thicket, he had left an'opening' where a lain};f
could barely fqneeze itfelf out. This hole
was not to be feen from without, and every ,
evening Robinfon clofed it up with branches
flrongly 1nterw0\ en together, jig;
' It was delightful to fee Robinfon comingmg;
home to his habitation, and his lama walkingf'i i952 '
3%" 7
'way as well as her mailer, and when 3117 g}:
' came to the little door the flopped firfi: mph?

' before him" She was foon able to find the?
.be unloaded, and then crept in upon her-ii

1 home, then to their ma-fler to- carefs htm' "j
alfo; Robinfonr, on fueh Occafions, wonidjn 3"
mix his Joy with theirs, as a father rejoicej
1 over h1s children when he clafps them 1'11 111%"
arms once more after: an abfence of fame.

_ Mme._/,,R03 I'NSON can-s02. '4:
{amething very infirufliVe and 'afi'eeting in
this gratitude of animals towards a man who
has done them a kindncfst '

Mr. Bill. There are feveral examples" of
. ihlwhich are extremely firiking, and v'vouldr
almofi induce us to believe that fome beafls
are really endued with thought like men, if.
we had not',.on the Other hand, proofs of- the '
contrary. ' - 7 1 .
Hcmy. Ay; for inflame, the lion and the
man mentioned in SANDroaoand Murrow
---what. was the man's name 9-
Rz'cb. Androeles.

Hemy. The fame; He , had plucked a
thorn out of the lion's paw. '.
Geo. There-was a. good: lion! 'He was

{0 fond of Androcles, who had done him. that

I * ' fervice ;' and-ever after, inureturn, he did' the

man not harm when he had-it in his- power;
to devour him. 'If they were alllikefhim, L

., fllouldlike to have. a-lionmyfelfi-j

Ric/2;; For my part, I like. vmuehubettet's'
the dog that belonged to-aASwifs. . 7 - '
Harriet.- Wh'ar (loge. '

'Ric/a. >
Rick. Have you forgot him. 9 The dog's;
that faved the lives of two men. "+41 ,
Harriet. Dear Richard, tell us that {i052}? >>.
Rich. There was once a man in Switzer.

he took a guide with him. _
Rich. Certainly, he took a gu1de--well,; '

and the guide took his dog. Now, when

tam

 

with. {now

Ric-b. Pray hold your tongue--Well, then, I
the mountain was all covered with 111011951?
Now, when they were almofi at the top, the fig
gentleman flipped, and the guide going to 511" .
his afliflance flipped too, and fo then they '

  

a few yards of the edge of the prec1p1ce, ,
from 11's- 'moft a mile befor

ROBINSON, CR/USOE. '43"

from which they yould have fallen down al-

they touched the bottom.
But then the good dog feiaed his matter by

the Ikit't of his coat, and held him fafl,'fo
that he could .not flip any farther, and he
held the gentleman until they both got up, -
Geo. Well, now you mufl tell us what- ,
the gentleman {aid ; I have not forgot it.

' Rick. Nor] I_ neither. He invited the
guide to come and fee him 'as often as he
pleafed at his houfe, and charged him never
upon any account to forget bringing his dog, ~
as he intended, whene
him a good belly-full. _

Harriet. And did the gentleman do {0 P
Rick. Yes, certainly: as often as the guide
'vilited him, he entertained him in the b it

manner he could, and was always fur
. the dog a full belly.

Harriet. That was Well done.
' Mr. Bill. Well, my dear ehildren, we

have lofi light of Robinfom- Shall'we flop
here for this evening?

vet he came, to give

e to give

' Gil.Gee. Oh dear papa, no. A little morz'l
of Robinfon, let it be ever f0 little. _
Mr. Bill. By this time his bricks were 33
hard enough to be ufed. He looked, mere: .
fore, for fame chalky earth, with which, mist?
fiead of lime, he intended to make mort'
for his wall; and he found fome. In th ' ,'j
next place, he made himfelf a trowel o? 3? 3' 2
flat fione, and,be1ng refolved to haVe every? a
thing complete that- belongs to a br1cklaycrfi3,
he went {0 far eVen as to make a fquare and' if}, .-
a plummet, but not in a bungling mannet','$
as perfeet as pofiible. You know, I {uppofg}

   
   
  
  
 

what thofe things are. 3 '35
Edw. 011,215 to that matter, we have feet: 1:;
than pretty oftem "'gf

Mr. Bill. Having, therefore, finiih'ed all";
the preparatives requifite for his mafonry, he'll},
made his lama bring home the bricks that
he had occafion for."

Rich. But how was he able to put the if;
bricks upon the lama? '3'?

Mr. Bill. Why, indeed, you would' 1151,;
eafily"Ron I, use N c R U s 03:. 43
cafily' guefs how he'contrived it, therefore
I think it belt to tell you at once.

He had long obferved that it would be
a very great advantage to him to know
fomething of the ufeful art of weaving
wickerpanniers; but he had taken fo' little
notice in his youth of the manner in which
baiket-makers work, that he knew as much
of this art, which, neverthelefs, is tolerably
eafy, as he did of all the'other ufeful arts,

I that is to fay; he knew nothing ahout it.

HoweVer, as he had once fuc'ceeded in
making" an umbrella by this fort of wea'v-- '
ing, he frequentlyafterwards amufed him-g
Telfin his leifure hours with trials of thcf
fame kind, by dint of which he difeovered

_ ' at length the whole myfiery of the art,'fo

as to be able to make a pretty tight pan-I

' ' . nier. Two of thefe he had woven on pur-

pofe for his lama to carry. He faf'tened
them together with a~ firing,_and laid them
upon the lama in fuch a "manner that they_'
h'ung'down one on each hile. '
VOL. II. C _Geo.Geo. Oh, papa! I lhould like to learnfifgfl ~
balket--making. . 315,; _ '
Mr Bill. Well, then, I will {peak to a. e
bafket-maker, the firfi time I meet one, to'
come here and give you fome lefi'ons. ' 1:"
Geo. Oh, that will be charming! And
then I will make a beautiful little worp A

bafket for Harriet

[iv-lg "

5*

too, papa, {han' t I. 9 \ w; 312.:

Mr. Bill. By all means, it can do you 116 $113;
harm In efi'eet, we fometimes have im- ii; _
idle hour upon our hands, when this baf. ' '

Ix
ket--making would come in quite feafon is" ,- ,

ably.' : 55"."

Robinfon then fell to his bricklaying, i111" Jj
which he fucceeded tolerably well. He'll
had now built up one of the fide walls of high 1:1 '
kitchen, and laid the foundation of the::>>' _ 313
other, when all of a fudden there happened:i '
fomething which he had never dreamt 05;;
and which terribly difappointed all h

plans._ - pw-fli'fn'
- mmw ~
1,"..mtwwwmwe, -,

<<4445
wt
v! ~ ,

' the day, was fallen intaa fwee

Harriet, Oh! I know it.
came and ate him up.-

Geo. Mercy on Us !

roaft him alive. , _
Rid). Dear me 1 what was it?

Mr. Bill. It was 'night, and Robinfozf
'on his bed of hay flept foundly, with his
lamas at his, feet. The moonihone out in!
all its Iplend'or, the air was c1ea'r.a"nd calm,
and _a profound filence reigned: overall nan
cure. RObinfon, fatigued: with-.the toils 06
t fl'umber, and:
dreaming,.as_ ufual, 6f-- his clear parents,'

when fuddenly----but. let us not clofe this

evening's entertainment with an event fa
full of terror;

we might, perhaps, dream"
of it, and have our {leep diflurbed. Rather:

letus turn our thoughts to fomething more

C 2 agree-
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  

agreeable, that we may end the day in jO'
and gratitude to our good Fathei' who is i114 a. .7: '

heavm.

NINTH EVENING.

R. BILLINGSLEY having brought}

the hifiory of the New Romqufiz'gg,
CRUSOE down to the end of the precedin "i
evening, it now happened that bufinefs inn?
difpeniably called him away for {even-315"" ;
evenings fuccefiively, and prevented hirn ;
from refuming the fiery, much to thedii? '-
appointment of his young family.
They were quite impatient to know what? '_ 5
this was that had happened to poor Robin-32%
ion, and they would any of them have given. >
' their favourite plaything to be informed of" l'
the events of that dreadful night, 'concei'ngg -ing which. Mr. Billingfley had {0 long kept
filence. Unfortunately, it was not .in the
power of any other perfon but their father
to inform them, and he thought proper to
fay nothing of it until- he ihould have time
to continue the fiery regularly as- uf'ual

Their conjeetures were endlef's, and only
ferved to puzzle them more and more. Om;

iguefl'ed this thing, another that, but none

of their guefl'es agreed entirely with the cir--
cumf'tances which they already knew of this
myflerious adventtn'e. . <<
"But why fhould wenot know the whole?"
fiaid fame of them, in a very piteous tone.
"I have my reaibns,,"anfwered1heir father;
The children were, by a prudent educaa-
tion, accuftomed. to be fatisfied with this

.anfwer, and therefore prefl'ed no farther, but _
waited with a guarded impatience for the -

moment when the caufe of their father' 3 fi-

,_lence ihould no longer exifi Mean time,
as it is eafy for a grow'mup perfon to

read the thoughts of children,- Mr Bil-
.lingfley could clearly perceive what pafl'ed
C 3 in' voice; and a general " Yes" having fatis~_

    
    
   
   
 
   
   
 
 
  
  

230, THE NEW

m their minds. The following refle&io _,
was written, as it were, upon the forehead or 1 -.~ :
each of them. deg " Why does our papa refute?

us this fatisf'aetion 3>> What reafons can 1113??
have for not gratifying our curiofity. 3" He.
thought proper, therefore, upon this occa; .
lion, to convince them once more that he
did not want the inclination to make the
as happy as lay in his power, and to finite 5

them that he had reafons of 1mportance for. i
not continuing the {'tory.

 

kw .. '
.' p. *. ,' . 1
. v 31.. _..- 1:. .>> A

'5'" difijmt:

ofl' to-morrow morning very early on a party?
down the river for Greenwich. YOu have e.
often wiflied to fee 1t, and to-morrow I pro '- '

pofe to indulge you." '

" Down the river i--To Greenwich P--ln
a boat E--What I, papa P--S'hall I go??? I

fied all their quefiions, they ran, quite trani
{ported with Joy,. to communicate the neWs
to their mama, and to make the ne'cefi'al'y~
preparations for their voyage. ii:no it 135 '6 N " d'R'frs 0.1:.~ "31'
" To Gteenwieh l'to GreenWSch ! 'Whel'e
are 'my half- bbots?' Jenny; wherefare njyr
gloves .3, (bid: l the 'Brufh"!"the eom'h !'
We are going to'Greenwich! (Luick'! Quick!"
Nothing was to be heard all- (We: the houfe,
but thefe exp'reffions of joy and impatience.
Every thing, ther'efdre, was prepared "far
the next day's patty i 'and' the young travel-
lets, in the fulnefs of th'eirjoy, alked a tho'u-I
{and quefiions, without waiting'for a fingle
anfwer; They. were, at length, howeVer;
prevailed ant to go to bed. for that night,
theft impatienCe being f0 great, that they
were already Wiming for the morning to fet
out On their journey. " ' ' I
At" length the morning appeared, and
, the whole houfe was in motion. Nothihg
, , l was heard but khOCking at "each other's
bed rooms'; to that they were all very foon
" obliged to rife and drefis themfelv'es.
When the Whole party, Old and youhg,
were affembled, and the former Wete al-
'moft 'de ' " L 'tone of voice which IbIreIaItIh'ed molt fortow.

ful difcord to the accents of univerfal joy,"
he faid, " My dearchildren, if you would dI'oIJI

from performing my promife." 1 313113217;
, "- What promife P what promifei' ' '-----and If"?-
each mouth that alked this quefiion remain

nied with a fort of fright.
Mr. Bill. The promife that I made to
you of going to Greenwich to-day. .-
The af'tonifhment and confufion of thew
younger part of the company was completed:
Not one could utter afylla-ble. 4 :
J'flr. Bill I have been thinking lal't mght ' '
that we lhould do wrong to go on this par-" '
ty 10-day. . '
'fbe Children. Why f0, papa >-----211;1d if , I
they could hardly {peak for fobs. . . ..; w. :6
Mr. Bill. I will tell you, and then leave"I '1;
I it to yourfelves to judge. In the firl't place,' e

. we have had, for foIme time paI,lt an eaftefly 3%
rough, and mui't he very difagreeable to a
party that are going down.
5171:: Claildren. But, papa, the wind' may
change I'till.
1147.132". Befid'es, I" confidered, that, if
we were to flop another mohth,'we "Ihoul'd
Pee many of the Bali India mips; "that are

to fail this year, dropping down to Dept-- '
ford; andI know two or three captains of
them; we, might, perhaps, dine aboard of~

one, which would be very agreeable--WOuld
it not 1" '
Tbe, Children. Yes,jpapa'--but'

 

Mr. Bill. ButI have fiill I'a'fironger- rea- -

fon. ' Yodknow; Charles and'Arthur Stali-
field, your firf'c' coufins, whom you hatrc
never feen yet, are to come out of Che-
{hire lhortly, and {pend a month with us ,
would 1t not- be infimtely better to wait' for
their coming, and take them with us?
Would they not, as often as we {hould
fpeak to them of the agreeablenefs of Our
party, figh and wilh that they had been
there too? And, in' that cafe, Would the

C 5 'f remem- V

l

1
,

.9?

"and they in ours. Therefore, what fay

  
  
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
    

54. i 'r H E N F; W .
remembrance of our /day's pleafure caufe u
much fatisfaetion P No; Certainly not
On the contrary, we fhould always be forty;
within ourfelves, that we had not done by Fig?
gard to us, were we ae'tually 1n their placef?
you. P

Aprofound filence.

Mr. Billingsley goes on. You know, I nej '
ver broke my word with you, {0 that, 1f 5

you would, of your own acco_,rd quit me of 'i <<"3'
my promife, you Would do me a kindnefs'i" , i '

'and you would do your coufins a kmdnefis, , i
y and yourfelves. Therefore {peak--What as

to be done? _ V_
"We will wait" was rheahfwer, and, con- '

I";

fequently, the fine party of pieafure was putf _. ._
01? till another tirrie. .: .- i

It was eafy to be feeh that this vietory .5;
over themfelves .had- cofl; {cine of thehii'i "
dear. '- thefe were. far from being as cheat;h " e lingfley- (took Occafi'o'n, therefore, towards

: .evening, when they were :all afl'embled, to
{peak to them in this manner:

" My'dear children, what has happened to

33': 3 you today, will happen to you freqi'iently in
I 3- the-comfe of year liVes. .You ,will expect
"33; to enjoy this or that earthly advantage; '

your hapes 3will appear: as well founded as
"pofiible, and you will bum with impatience
to realize them 3 but, in the very m'ome'nt

,3: when you think to touch this long-expected
' 3 . happinefs, Divine Providence, which is {u-
:3"! premely wife, will, man infla'nf, difippoi'nt A
:4 - L your defigns, when you {hall Jeafl exp'eft'it;
7% and thus you will find your too fa'nguifie ,
i hopes many, many a time fadly frufirafech
L: ' " Th'e fealbns which your heavenly F ather-
3 ;.,. - will have to aft thus with you; will {eldom
4%? appear to you 16- clearly and diflifietly 'as
3 you have heard my reafohsthis' nioifhi'fig
_ 3 3 far putting off'out'pafty to Greenwich:

mofl: rename futurity; and often, for 6th
advantageg.b'fufi'ers things to 'hdppen', the-
- C 6 good

7.33 for God, being infinitely wife, looks to thegood efiefis of wh1ch we do not expenenee
until long. after, perhaps even in anotherff 3 '
world.'

if you always obtained, at the exafl: moment,
whatever was the objee't of your hopes,- oh' '
my dears, how much the Worfe would it'bef
for you during the remainder of your lives! ? e,

fuch profperity, and how unhappy would
your afi'eetions, thus corrupted, make you?"
at a time when things fnould not go qUIEC'LE
to your liking! And fuch a timewill come,;
my dears ; it will come as certainly for you" I
as it comes for all other men , for hithertofl :7R OB'I'N'S osN.._c R U s o E. 57'- .'

which you would have given the world to
enjoy. This yietdry over yourfelves, of-
ten repeated, will firengthen your under--
fiandings and yOur afi'eetions in inch fort,

that, for the future, you will be able-to fup- '
.port, with unfhaken fortitude, whatever a.

wife and benevolent God {hall appoint you
for your good. .

" What I have faid, will" teach you, my
dear children, to interpret manyyiinfiances of
our behaviour, which to you appear unac-

countable, and which we, 'who are advan-'

ced in years, commonly adopt with regard to

' you. You have, no'doubt, often been fur-
. prifed at our refufing you-'a- gratification for '

which,' perhaps; you . longed . .ardently.
Sometimes we have told you the re'afons of
our refufal ; that is,'when you were capable

' of underl'tanding them: and fomc'ti'mes,jon

the other hand, we have not told you them 5
for infiance, when you were too y0ung to be

able to underltand them; And why did. i
we do f0? Often merely on purpofe- to *
'exercife your patience and moderation, vir-

tUCS
   
    
      
     

pare you for the fub'fequent acCidents 0
your lives. ' ' mi"

:of Robinfon Crufoe's Hifiory. 1111th

time to clear up to you the adventure with
which I left 05", and concerning whieh you i
have been, 'eVer fince, 111 a difagreeable uh- 1: '2'E
Certainty: but, you fee, I did not tell youifif

another word about 11, though you frequent- $31>> '
I'y aiked me, and it is aIWays againfi my W11 _
that I refufe you any thing.- Now, why dldzs'i'if

I do thus, Harriet. "'

{Or any thing, it will be for 'accuf'comino t,y'o'u
thus to giVe up without regret any thing 65%:-
'which you have before ardently defir'ed the? '
rpofl'efliOn. ' ' 'of going on with the Rory lofRobinfon'Cru- '

fog ; but, at length, the hour [0 earnefizly
1onged for arrived, when Mr. Billingfley
was no longer prevented by bufi'neis mother-
wife from fat-isfying the general wifh. He
went on, therefore, withom interruption, in
thefe words:

off, and Robinfon was quietly firetchedon
his bed of dry grafs, with his faithful lamas
at his feet. A deep calm overfpread all 'the
_ face ofinature, and Robinfon, according to

his cuftom, w'as dreaming of : his parents, -
~ when, all at once, the earth {hook in an un- ,
common manner, and a rumbling neife was '

heard, together with dreadful. cracks, as if
many'i'tdr'ms burfl' forth all at once. Robin;
{on fiatted up_ in a fright, and jumped out
of bed without knowing what was the>> mat-

ter, nor where he was'going. . At this mo-

ment happened a dreadful {hock of the
earth, which was fucceeded' by feVeral

others equally violent. The rumbling'noifi:

. alto-continued, which feemed to come from

underunder ground. At the fame time arofe '
furious hurricane, which tore up trees, and

  
 

moi-x

to be at war with each other, and nature" to, ,1 _ .
Vi .5 -

1'2:

  
   
  
  
 
  

the afi'righted- lamas followed. Scarce image: it; 1
they out, when a piece of the rock, which;

ref'ted over the cave, fell down upon the'
.bed which Robinfon had juft left. Fed?>>
now, lent him wings- he fled with precipif} ,
.tation through the final] opening in his?
wall of trees, and the lamas, no lefs tetrifietL-'ia

were elofe at his heels. , . ' .....tl-

- on a neighbouring mountain, on the top ofjm ' '1
.which was a plain perfeetly open, that he; Ei
. might not be m danger of the falling trees
. He was going to run thither, when {uddenlyr '
he beheld, to. his infinite terror and- furprifefi 3 V
that very fame fpot'o of the mountain Open :5; p
with a huge gap, and vomit forth fmoke"? ',
fire-,1" 2:;

   
   
 

  
 

1
in on-IN'sor'i. cn'uson, r6! i
fire, Cinders, Hones, and a burning Mean:
of what is called law. He could fearcely
tell which way. to run from this dreadful
eruption, as the burning, lava rolled down
the hill like a river, and great'fragments of
rock were hurled into the. air, in every di-
rection, and fell as thick as hail. _ .

He ran towards the 'fea-fide 5 but here he
beheld a new fcene no lefi terrible. A dread-
ful whirlwind, which blew from all quar--_
ters of the fky, had driven together a large
quantity of clouds,_and heaped them, a'sit
were, one upon the other. Their oWn --
weight burfi them at length, and the coale-
quence was'fuch a deluge of rain, as, in -'a
moment, laid the whole country" under
water. ' ' ' ' ' '

1 Robinfon {aved himfelf'with difficulty by
climbing flip a tree ; but histpoor lamas were
carried ofl' by the violence 'of the flood. Ah!
how it went' to his heart to hear'their plain-.
tive bleatings ; and how willingly Would he,
.at the rifkof his own life, have endeavoured
to fave. them, but thatithe rapidity of the
' torrent
torrent had already carried them far beyond -.
his reach! -. 7'
, The earth continued to {bake fiill'for a
few minutes, after which there fell, allzziE
once, a dead calm. The winds fubfidedl'f
the opening of the mountain ceafed by (1?in
. grees to vomit fire; the rumbling under: SS
ground was- heard no more , the fl<y cleared.
' up, and all the waters ran off in lels tharu a?!
quarter of an hour ' ' ti ,.

Geo. ( f gbzag beavily) Ah! thank God, .

 

  
    
    

long ago, but You were. not here.. . _ i .-
Mr. Bill Tell her, Richard. i . 73:5, .
Rich. There are a number of great hols '

'x-Wi'

under the earth, like caverns, and there are *3V's .V o\

1203 I'l'x'f'soiz' eRU son. 63"
things that ea'fily take fire; as fulphur,
pitch, nitre, and 'the like. There begin
{ometi-mes to heat and take fire, when moif-
ture happens to accompany them; ,

Geo. Moifiure? Can wetneis, then, occa-
fion any thing to take fire? '

Rick. Certainly. Have you never feen,
when mafons throw cold water upon 'burnt -
lime-Italics, how they begin immediately to
boil and fika as if they were upon the
fire, and yet there was no fire near them?
Well, in the fame manner things take fire
under ground as ,Ibon as water penetrates
to them; and then, when they burn, the
air which is in thefe great caverns expands
{o prodigioufly that there is no longer room'
to contain it, f0 that, firiving forcibly to find

a paffage out, it ihakes the .earth,'until, at

length, it makes an opening fomewhere,

and through this opening it comes forth like

a hurricane, drawing with it a quantity of

burning and melted matter. '
Mr. Bill. And this matter, which confifis

offlones, minerals, and tmetuous bodies, all

' ' melted. yapa

' it fome fulphur and filings of iron. Thig'fifie

  
    
     
 
   
  
    
 
   
    

64., '.T_H,E NEW

fire. If you fhould like that, we will make;
the experiment fome day. ' '
Tbe Children Oh, yes, by all means, deal"

Rz'cb. And how IS that done. P. '

the ground where it is moifl, and put into;

WC

 
  

mixture will heat and take fire of itfelf, and '
then you have a burning mountain in mi};

7'";

firft idle day. .- g; I

While Robinfon was coming down from
the tree on which he had faved himfelf, his .
mind was f0 deprefl'ed with the calamity} ,,..
which had jufl; fallen on hirri, that he never; --4
once thoughtof: thanking for his frefh (16-3 I
liverance that Being who had before, more:
than once, preferved him when 1n the mOIhx on Ineny- only son. '63

' rabie as ever 'it had been. His cave,' the-

only place of :efiJge that he hadrhitherto-
{pund,_.was, in all probability, a: heap of>>

ruinS; his deal? and: faithfifl. lama: he; had!
feen, withhis own eyes, carried: 0&7 by the '

flood, and without doubt they .mufl: have

R'e'gilfhegh alllhis'pafi labours Were demo- .

Jifhed, and his plane for. the future, difa -
QQinted>>! .'_I' he mountain, it is true,L ,had
ceafed to throw up fire, but fromthe gulph,

' which was flill open 0.11;.thfi IQ? of it, there

jfi'ucd forth--a'thick bIECk. {1,11qu and it was
very pofliblethat. this mounpain'might now.
continue to, be always a. volcano, In that
cafe, how-was; Robinfon: to. enjoy one mo--.
mm'sfesuxity 97 Might>> henot reafonably-

4 dread a [gem-earthquake, or a;f}efl1ierup-.

ti9n: "613': day? . ;
Thefe melancholy ideas completely over- ~
powered;him. ' He funk under-{he weight

- of hismifcricsziand, inficadof'tuminghimm

{elf IOWEEIdEeGQd; the, only. fource of true

V confolatimihe; thopghvte; of nothing but his,

future' that it was not for us to judge 1n Inch cafes

I not the confidence 1n his Maker which he; .-

_did well in not delivering him yet.

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   

:66 - r H E 1'1 E w
fixture lmifery, which appeared to him ihfi I7?
mite both 1n weight and duration. . Witt} '

Exhaufied with anguifh and difcomfortfi'i
he leaned againfi: the tree, and, from big;
pained breait, he uttered fighs,or rather deeph '
groans, of difirefs. He remained in this p0
fition, the p'ie'ture of defpair, until the daw" '

told the approach of day. i115
Geo. (ta Mr. Meredith.) I fee now that

my papa was right.
M. Mered. In what?

fon was altogether reformed, and that P .
vidence might fafely order things for {his'* :
deliverance from the ifiand, but in anfwer.
to that my papa obferved, that our hea-e'f
verily Father knew every thing heft, and "i

I:

Mr. Merad. And now?
Geo. Why, now I fee plainly that he had

    
  
  

i
~a

  

ought to have had, and, therefore, that God
, Edw. 301 think too. I'mufi: own, I
9 7 am far from liking him now {0' well as I did

'3 {ome time ago.
) , , Mr. Bill. Your obfervation, ' my dear '
7 children, is perfeetly jufl'. It is true, we
fee plainly that R'obinfon has not that firm,
unalterable .filial COnfidenee in his Maker 1
which he naturally ought to have after f0 ~|
, many proofs of his wifdom and goodnefs . 3
fig. . , _ It
If}, as he had experienced; but, bexore we f
i} n condemn hini on this head, let us firfi: put i
it" - ourfelves in his place for a moment, and. f,
"V ' afk our own hearts if" we fhould have aeted ::1
: better under the fame circumftances. W hat 1'
E71:

{g think you, Edward ? .If yOu had beenRo--
1" binfon, would you have had more courage

it: - than he? '

 

16$ . Edw. (be/z'tatine'.) I can't fay. . _ -. ' 'fg
R Mr. Bill. Recolleel: the tiine when you 5
, I; had fore eyes, and We put bliflrers behind i"
$1>> ' I|SS
:52; yourears. Do you remember how difpi.
f rited you were at times? And yet 'it was. .

but a thrt--lived pain; it 131th burn-two l

days. I know, indeed, that you haVe more i . sill
Yon. II. D i

{can a;fenfe now, and would bear the pain better ;
but could you alfo bear 'with filial fubrfiifii',"
fion every thing that Robinfon was 'force A ,
toundergo ?----What think you, rfiyde'ar'? - '
Have I not fome reafon for doubting. up'o .7

that fcore ?
o .x'Y
Your filence is the beft anfwer to "3?

r quef'tion. As, thank Heaven, you hm
never been in a fituation like that of 0m"

poor friend Robinfon, you cannot tell what
would be your fentiments if you were 5 there .

' . . r- .5, -SS
fore, all that we can do at prefent IS to ach-{L
cufiom ourfelves, in the flight misfortunesiftg-

which we perhaps mutt experience, to turrii'q,' gt;
our eyes towards Heaven, and be ever pd a; '

1,, .

tient and' full of confidence. Our heartily :1"
will then be more .and rnore firengthenedig'ee -
every day, ('0 as to bear with due refig'naiigig

tion even the 'greatefi fufi'erings, if our he'a ;_

venly Father fhall think proper to appoint?-
them to us. ' , lei
.At length the day. appeared, and its new
(born light, while it fpread joyover all Era-i 5
true, found poor Rol'imfon {till ~ leaning?
' ' ' agaidfle

.. a"

 
 
  

   

 

~

 
  
   
 

'1nom'N'szom GJ'REUS'O E. "'69

g _, mble. Sl't'eeP. had never clo'led hiseyelidsl;
it} one gloomy thought "alone- a'bl'orbecl nhi's
E _

li? - timestthe>> fdmwfill quefiion,' " Whit-Will

become'of' the P" - At length he'fet hitfifelf

in morion, aimd flaggering asheWalk'ed, like .

'3>> than who} is? halfafle'ep,' 1 he arrived, ' after

'7 {om'e time; at: the? ruins :Ofl :his habitatioti.

2' But what iofitffil emetions fifei/Zed meme-tiff,
EE when, all at once; a_s he Came uplthard's
m? the willow en'clofu're--v'v'l-iai'think you ?'-----
his deari'lamas',- fafeand'l'ofind, came jumps '

ingeto' imeee' hilfiv!) i'ALfiefirfi'fhe-icouldmbe .

belieVerhie eYes'ybiit his eleubits We'reilfdoh
'fatiefied. f'Tl'w'i'lavmas'r ramu'p to':hit'n-, lib-ked
- his, hands, and ekprefl'edtheir- joyatefc'ei'ng
him" egain'by smearing : andLflgippihg abQu'e.
Rebinfon's h'e'aft'; whieh,Y=4uetil that mo:-
meats-had- {emnedanrenfibie and-frozengwag
how awakehedH 'He' 'lo'okeil 'af'fhis 'lemae,
then up to Heaven; Zand fears ofjdyy'g'ffi
titude; and 'repe'ntahee' for his "Warlt-rbf-lgith,
fieele'wed-'hieveheekes'l 'Heihowpmedaaa
5' | D' 2 " carefled

againfl: the tree, in a ficu'ation truly'deploJ

3?" . whole lbul ;- heh'adlaflg'edl'hi't'nfelfathofilhnd ', -earefl'ed his old friends .a thoufand timeg."
,-and, accompanied by them, went to fee '

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
    
   
  

;what-w-as'be.come of his habitation. _
;Henry. But how were the _lamas favedjige 3.
Mr. Bill. We may fuppofe that the floodSS '

Shad carried them to Tome rifing groundi .

:where the waters wete not quite fo deep, and :V ' " ' '

\

.cave, and, to add to his confufion, found the ., 7
damage here alfo by no means fo confiderfi
able as, in the height of his defpondencvaik
he had imagined it. The cieling, which is],

confii'ted of one piece of rock, had, it is a>>???
525"

true, tumbled down, and 1n its fall brought"; e:
_fome of the neareit earth along with it} 5:
yet, after all, it appeared not impoiiible taxi.
,clear the cave of thefe ruins, and then ms'jiig

dwelling--place became twice as fpacious and age
convenient as it was before. ' 'vine Providence had ordefid events thus,

not to punifh Robin'fon, but rather exprefisly
for his prefervation: -for when he had more
clofely examined the fpot where the piece

of rock had been fufiaen'ded, he, to his no-

{mall terror, perceived it to be furrounded'
[on eVery fide by a- {oft ea1th, a'nd', confe-r
quently, that 1t could'never haVe been firmly
placed, it was, therefore, 111;"er e'nduglfitG
fall down by 1t's owr1 weight- fobner or later.-
Now this Divine PrOvidenee forefaw, and'
perhaps, moreover, forefaw that the pie'ce'
of rock' would {all precifely at a ttme whea-

Robinfo'n was in the cave. But, as the all,

wife and 'gbod Creator had appointed '16-

this man a'longer- life, he had, from the"

creation of the world, f0 formed the earth,

that exactly. at that time, and 1n that. ifland, -
there {hould be fuch an earthquake. Evert
the rumbling noifeluhdier groundfand'the
mating of the hurricane, how terrible'fo-v
ever they had founded in the ears of? Ra:
binfon, 'were circumflances that'contri'bfited'
to fave him: for, had the earthquake come

D3 -'~-"-=on'of him at a time when he thought himfe

urn--m--.
Wm
. . , , "*I 3'14.

' V

  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

72 _ 41' n r, 1171-; w
on Without any noife', Robinfon, 1n all 11kc..,
lihOOd, would not have aWakened, and thcg'fi
the fall of the rock would certainly hav

'\. v,

put an end to his life. - 1.,1; .
Thus, my children, Heaven took care

forfaken, and even made thefe dreadful aci
eidcnts, which Robinfon looked uptm as his"

greatelt misfortune, contribute wholly tit}

his prefervation. 1 ,3 _. 1

you will have frequent opportunities; of? <<i7
gaining, if you with to remark the ways hy f; ;
which Providence will conduct you. In all
the unfortunate lituations of life which it.
may be your lot to fall into, you will find '
thefe two thing-s ever true, namely, i

In the firfl: place, men always reprefent " .

greater than1t really 15.1, - - _ 1:" . :
Secondly, that all our misfortunes are limit 3:33"

to us by our merciful Creator for was and
good reafons, and shat, confequently, 1n the 35'
end, they, will ever contribute to our real 1

happinefs. ,-:6

.. . . .'V: .AA. ... . ' \\\.\\."\u.\>>C/.fl.SS._. 4;:
ROB I NisIONY-'ciIRI-Is OE. 73 ,

C/ - *

'TE'N T-H 3111-21511 1: G. 7

t

MR. BILLINGSLET goe: one--Robina

fan, who for fame time pafl: had ufed'

the cuffom of Joining prayer with his ia--

bout, began by throwing h1mfelf~ On his
knees to thank God for his late deliverance;
after which he chearfully-ie't: abouthis-wmk','

which was to Clear his; cave of the vruinsz- '
It was but a flight tafk~to remove the>> '

earth and the gravel, but there remained

{till the great piece oPS rock, Which had been -
under all. It- 13 true, it was broken in two 3':
but even in this Rate it feerried to require 7
more than the firength'. of one man to difu-

lodge it. . .

He tried to roll out the- {malletiz of the _'
tWO pieces, ,_but in vain: the taflza was too ..
much for his firength. . An -attempt1foi'far.l
from 1'fueceeding difcouraged him once

more. He did not know what to try next.

D 5_: Rick. '{t'\

.74 THENE'W

Rich. Oh, I know wIiat I fliould have
done. '
Mr. Bill. What? '

  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
    
   
  
 

 

crow, fuch as the men had the other day: ' Iii .'
when they rolled a great beam into the bath" . iii: 1
yard. ' ' _ \hjl'i .
Geo. I was not by then. What 15 a lever ' ~
or a crow, as you call it? ., ,, "
Rich. It is a long f't'out pole; one endl'f
they put under the beam or. the {tone that '7' ,2!
they will: 1.!) move, and then they place aig'ff
little block or Pcone under the lever, but as f ,

(time as poflible to the beam or whatevei':'_"' ,-' ,

hands 0n the other end of the lever, which it?
they prefs with' all their force' upon the ' ' '
block, the beam is thus rai'fed up, and may
be rolled without much trouble. . f
Mr. Bill. I will explain to ybu the me;
{on of that another time: at 'prefent ii
and hear what R'obinfon did. ' w"
After having meditated upon the mattcf:
a long time to no 'purpofe, the idea of the
lever
lever firuck him too at! lal't. He recol-
Ieeted that when he was young he had {ome-
times {een workmen make ufe of this his
firument when they wanted to move
very heavy loads, arid he haftened to make
a trial of it. '

This fucceeded. In halflan hour he.

rolled the two pieces of I'tone. clean out

of the cave, which four men with their

hands alone could- not have {titted from;
their places 3- and thenhe had the fatisfac;
tion of leeing his dwelling twice as fpacious'.
as before, and, what wasof infinitely. more:
confequence, quite fecure as far as the eye.-
could examine :. for now- both: the walls.
and the cieling- confil'ced of one hollow=
rock, in which there could no where be:
difcovered the fi'nalleli cracks. - t
Edw. But, papa, what was becomeof?
his fpider. P '
- 1147313271. I am glad you- put me if) mind'"

of It. Poor fpider!' I had almofl- forgot rt..- '

Bur, in truth, I can tell you norhing about

it, unlefs that, according to all appearance,>> '

D6 -it.-

__.,_...._1.--_.. <<5----"HIV" 7., :

   
  
    

76 ,1 TH-E new
it was buried. under the ruins of the ci'eling'; ~.
at leafi, Robinfon never faw it again: howa-g'.
ever, his other friends, the lamas, made him, I ,.
amends for it's lofs. . .' {3?

He now ventured to turn his Reps to- .
wards the volcano, from which a black}
fmoke f'till continued to rife. He was
afionifhed at thequantity of melted mat-
ter that had run {ram it on all fides ; part
of which was not cold yet. For this time,
therefore, he only admired, at a difiance,
the grand, but dreadful fight of the fmo-- 5'3
king gulf, becaufe fear, and the lava, which, 1' "
was {till too hot, hindered him from ap-Q
proaching nearer.

Having remarked that the principal
fiream of lava had taken its courfe towards
the {pot where his potatoes grew, he was
much terrified at the idea that this torrent
of fire might, perhaps, have laid waf'te the ,rr
whole place; nor could he be eafy until he
fatisfied himfelf on this head. He Went,
therefore, to the fpot, and found, to his great ;
joy, the whole plantation fafe and fo'undt {

' From '
From that moment, he refolved, at all ha-
2ards, to plant potatoes in manyldififerent
parts of his ifland, in orderto prevent the
misfortune of feeing himfelf deprived of f0
admirable a fruit by fome unlucky accident
or other. It is true, winter, according to ' _
his reckoning, was nowjuft at hand ; '.' butff
faid he to hinilelf; 'f who knows whether
thefe plants are not of the fort that will

. fianthhe winter?" ,' ,

Having put this delign into execution,
he began again to work upon his kitchen. ,
Here alfo the terrible convullion of nature
which had jult happened, was the means
of procuring him a great advantage; for, '
you mull: know, that the burning moun-A'

_ tain had, amonglt- other things, thrown u _

' a confiderable quantity- of ' limeflzones;
Thele are commonly burnt in .a kiln before '
lime can be made 0fC/l1EUR1nSS.bllt here that
was; not neceH'ary, for the burning moun- '

tail: had already'been as good as a limekiln

to. them. _ '
Robinfon, therefore, had only to gather
- ' afmall

fir'
a {mall heap of thefe fiones, to throw water."
upon them, and. then to-fiir the heap-"well,
about. Thus>> the lime was flaked, and i:
made proper for the mafon's ufe. .He then '

mixed with italittle fand, fell to work i'm-l , ,.

mediately, and had reafon to be pleafed with
his own clevernefs. ' - 1 -;
In the mean time, the mountain had,"
ceafed fmoking, and Robinfon ventured to: H
approach the gulf. He found the fidesl"? ii
and the bottom covered with cold lava, and:

come out any where, he had reafon to hopa
that the- fubterranedus fire was entirely cx-fi
tinguiihed, and that, for' the future, he;
ihould have no eruptions to dread.

This hope having given him frefh
firength and fpirits, he turned his thoughts;
towards laying in a fiore of provifions' 3'6

A ROBINrSON-QR-UsO'E. 79
tame lamas 1; ; and, he hung up the greateft
part of the flefh in his kitchen to fmoke.
But firlt he had let it liefome days in falt,
becaufe' he had remembered to have feen

his mother do fo at home,_ when {he made,

bacon.

Here was a-'pretty good flock of provis'

fions; yet {till he dr.eaded left he lhould
fall' lhort if the winter was fevere and laflted
long. For this reafon, he would have tap

ken more lamasi, but he' found .h1s method'
would no longer a'nfwer- for the creatures ' '

had, at length, taken fiotice of. his manner
of neofing them, and were, therefore, on
their guards {0 that he was obliged to in.
vent fame new way; of taking them. ' ~

This way he foon {011ml f0 inexhaufiible' -

are the-,Trzefourees of the humah mind, if.
properly cxerted, in providing for its wants,
and enereafi'ng its happinefs; He had ob-
ferved that the lamas, whenever they per-
ecived him near the fpring, ran fwiftliy ma-
' wards a neighbouring coppice, in their way
to which they pafl'ecl over a little hill. .The
fartherfide of this hill 'was hedged, as it

~ were,

- /, were, with {mall thickets ;' and"clofe be:
kind this hedge there was a defcent- as fieep'
asa wall, and about a couple of yards deep,
The lamasfin'their flight; always jumped j'
, clean overthe hedge, and landed at the bot-i
tom of. the hill 5 and this obfervation dc:
termined him to dig a deep 2 hole on uthisa's
fpot, where the lamas jumped. down, that , 7
they might-fall into'it rand be- taken. His x2} 5
indefatigable labour finifh'ed in. a 'day'andffe g
a half this new'twork of. his invention. The E: if;
.pit'he- covered 'over- with green, branches;
and the next day had the fatisf'aetion of fee<<
ing two tolerable large lamas taken in it. - I.

He now thought 'himfelf fufliciently pros; V

him with a cellar in-every refpeet complete 4
for elofe by his cave another piece of the
hillock had funk' about. two :fathom in $52
depth, and thereby formed a fecond caverngjit if
'opening, as well as the firfl, into his encloee'"
kitchen, and cellar,- all adjoining ehch other;
and placed as convenientlyas if they had
been planned and laid out by art. -

T here now remained three things more,
which done, he was to count himfelf fully
guarded and provided againit the expeeted
approach of winter : hay was to-be made
for his lamas; a>>. flock of wood to be laid
up for firing ,- and all his potatoes, were to be
dug up,' and lodgedin the cellar.

Hay he had collecled in a pretty large
quantity, and {tacked it up in his court-
yard, as 'haymakers do here i and when-
ever he put frefh hay on it, he trod it down
{0 hard that the rain could nOt eafily {oak
into it.- But here experience taught him
a little more of haymaking, though at the>>
expence of fome labourand trouble. _

You muf't know, he had not taken care .
to dry the hay perfeetly._ Whenever this , '
happens, and it is' at the lime. time prelied
down tightly in the Rack, it begins to heat;
next tafmoke, and at length it takes fire;
This was a matter that Robinfon had never-I

(heardheard of when he was young , for he had-'5'

9 .1." "

never much troubled his head about farmii 71'"
ing buline-fs; but in his prefen't fituauon :-
. M7233;

he learned how ufeful it is to remark every7e/ a:

thing, and to collect as much information

   

   
   
  
 
 
  
 
    
  

nilhed, when, on thruf'ting his hand into i 3.
he found the infide burning hot. He could: :'
not perfuade himfelf but that the hay was
on fire, though he could not pofli-bly com:
ceive how the fire could get in there.

He took down the haycock, therefore, as'=
{alt as pomble, but was very much fur a
prifed to find no fire, and to fee that the '
hay was every where extremely hot and
lnoil'c. He was, therefore, at lafi, con:
winced,- (as was really the cafe,) that the
moifture alone caufed the hay to heat,-.
though he could, in no wife, conceive how

that thould be.

$.31);-ROB-I.'NTSSGN"ORUSOE. .83
WRMI I muflfoWnIfmd it hard to ima--

i gin'e how' wetnefi alone -_can make any thing

heat. '
i Mr. Bill. My dear Riehard, there are a

thoufand Inch cffeets as, this innature, _, and
human. reafon, which hath been; fefiee'ting
on them for many ages, ., hath clearly diIcoy
vered 'the' true' Caufes of many'of them
T hefe nfefnl difcoveries are com prifed m
a fcience, of which, perhaps, you do not
know the name. It is called Nathfal. Phiu

lofophy.. There you may find the- reafon "

9f , this :xemarkable efl'ee't of moiI'ture, a's
- well as many Other appearances in nature
'that ate Incisttemel'y fingular. And .if\.you
continue 'td, apply: yourfelf properly "to : the
{cicnees whiehtyonarelearning at prefent, I
Willteaeh'YOu alfoEtha-t of natural philofophy,
which will give yeu'inexpreflible V ' pleafure.
Hare'.it..*wouldv.be tone. purpofe' to introas
duceit, be'i:auIE yen could not underfiand'
what I;- IhQuId fay to ybu. ' .
Rabinfim then dried his hit}! 'afi'efli, and
' made it up into: a {rem PShaycock, 'whiclt
coul'd; Rand IEcure againfl: both wind and.
rain.

'3."- ~. inferior in firmnefs to our thatch roofing"; i "

   
  
  
  
   
    
 
    
  
    
  
   
  

3'4 . ' TH-E new
raih. To render it ffill: more fecuregehe-a '
topped. it With- a- covering of needs" fear

For fome days following, he'emplo'yede-'V'V'Ff '
himfelf in gathering as much dry WOOdza
He judgedhe flrould want: After this,;h _
dug up his potatoes, and found theme "5,3?! '
12y confide-rable flock; Thefe helaid "9"sz
carefully in his cellarr. Lafily, he 111001;;
the lemon-tree, and brought home as may}?
ny of the fruit-35 were ripe, to preferve'tlaenijlw
too againf't the winter; and now. he wast,
freed from allapprehenfiOhSJ'of wantedurihght '1? '
the bad weather; m1 '5

But though it was. a-l'mofc the end 7';
0&Ober, the cold,.;whichthadrmade. Ros-
b'infon f0 uneafy,..was'not to. be felt in the:
leai't. >> Infteackof that,..the weather turnedz-e
to .rain, and itrained fo incefi'antly that drag
air feemed'tovbe changed into-water.- Hug"
didnot. know. what'to. think of it.. For :13
fortnight together,. he- never. put his footy" 1";
outfide ofhis cave, unlefi to go .to the eel";
hr, the haxftack, or the. fpring, -to "fetch
' . -. ' vitleu'ak4n o M ms a N .'CLR 958 o a. 8; .-
:etsuals and water for himfelf and his la-
The refi of the time he was obliged
to mapal's like a prifonerl ,
'. How heavily the hours erept on! No-
thing to do, and all alone! My V dear Chil-
dren, it is>> impoflib'le for you to.imagine a
greater mifery'! If any body eould have
given him a book, or pen, ink, 'and paper,
he would, with great .chearfulnefi, have gi,
wen one day of his life for every iheet of
paper. " ,Ohl" {aid he now-and then'to
himfelf,' with a heavy figh, " how filly was
I in my younger-days tolook upon reading
and writing as fomething tirefome, and idle-
nefs as fomething agreeable! The molt
tedious book in the world would now be a
treafure to me, and I would prefer a (beer
gfpaper, with pen and ink, .to the polibfiion
of a kingdom." . .

During this wearifoine time,.necef1'ity
forced him to have retoarfe to all flirts of
employments which he had not hitherto
tried. He had been meditating a long
time whether it would not: be pomble forwm.wr ,5 ,_ w

'1

.<_"_. .~__._. r _ W'-

. his pot and lamp were finifhe'd- {o-- cornplete;

_ WW.W_-1W__~

 
   
    
  
  
  
 

him to make an earthen pot and a lamp} 5
things whieh Would" have rendered his fim';

'3
ation imcomparably better. He ran, there; "e,
fore, 1n the middle of the rain, to look for?
potter' 3 earth; and, having found a fuffie:
cient qnantity of it, he immediately bcga

to work.

5'

finifhed, and not to his liking, he amufedv'"
him-{elf with breaking it to pieces, and be-il

meat rather than trouble, until, at length; g
that it wOuld have been ill--nature to break 3?

in his kitchen, not far from the fire, to
gradually. After this, he went 0n makmdt-
-0the-r pots, pans, and pipkins, of different
fliapes and fizes; and the more he prae'tifedfij
this work, the more ready he became at it. f'
ROBINSON onuson. '87,.-

without interruption. . Robinfon, therefore, 1

{aw himfelf under the neceflity of 1nventing
. other domeflic labours to keep h1mle1f fi'om
I the unpleafant efi'eetsof' having nothing to
do. 'His firft talk was to make a filhing'
net. He had laid in, beforehand, a pretty
good flock of packthread, which came now
very feafonably into ufe. As he took time
I: enough, and had the patience to try a thing
ten times or mor.'e,.- which did not .fueceed
with him at firfi, he ',found at length, the
true method of making the knots, and he
became as clever at the work as any woman
or girl in this country who praetifes making
nets or purfes: forhe had invented alfo. an
inf'trument'of wood, which he cut with his
knife of flint, fomething in the form of a.
fpit; and with this he contrived to make a;
net, which, for gotadnefls and real ufe, was
little inferior to our common filhing nets.:-

It next came into his head to try whe-
ther he could not make a bow and arrows.
The thought of this fet him all alive, when
he confidered the many great advantages
that a bow would procure him! I With a

bow ..,,__-{_..

.88 'THE NEW

' difficulty, and on the other, when bent, xi
~might endeavour to return to its former Rate. i '

   
   
    
   
    
  
      
   
    
   
  

bow and arrows he could kill lamas,' he

more important--with thefe he could de-
fend himielf 1n his dwelling place, 1f ever the "f"
favages came to attack him. He was -a'J1
impatience to flee the bow finithed, and ran,'
notwithftanding the rain and the wind, to
look for the proper wood.

was fit for the purpofe ; it fhould be at the
fame time hard and fupple, that on the, =
one hand 1t might be bent without much};.

3'14;

Ricb. It fliould be elafiz'c, papa; ihould
it not. P "

Mr. Bill. The very thing.

of this fort of wood, he carried it home, an(L if
began immediately to work upon it. But, 1'."
proper knife! He was obliged to cut twen~
ty times to bring ofl" as much wood as we
could cut at once with a knife, 05 fteel. ~
Though he worked from the rifing to the
fetting of the'fun at this talk without the
leaf't intermifiion, he was obliged to be eight

' whole days about it. I know fome people
who would not have had Tuch patience.

Geo. (to tire" other obila'rm) Papa means
us now. .
Air. Bill. George, you have juft guefi'ed
it 5 and do not you think that I am right P

Geo. Why, yes, papa. But, for the fu-

cure, I will take care to go on with whatever
workI once begin. "

Mr. Bill. You will do well. Robinfon,
atlealt, found the advantages of doing {0.
He had the inex'preflible joy of Tee'ing 'his'
bow finilhed on the ninth day; and now he
wanted nothing but a firing and arrdws.'
If he had thought of it when he killed the:

lamas, he would have tried, perhaps; to

make firings of their guts 5 for he knew that,

in Europe, it is common to make them but:
VOL. II_. E of
9o THENEW

ofiheeps guts. For want, therefore, of catgut,
he twified a firing of packthread, and made

it as firong as pofiible. After this, he pro;
ceeded to make his arrows.

What would he have given for a {mall
piece of iron to point his arrows with! But
withing was to no purpofe. As he flood at
the door of his cave, confidering how he 4'
might fupply the want of iron'points to his
arrows, he turned his eyes, by chance, on
the lump of gold which lay there [till on the}; a,
ground as a thing of no ufe. " Go," faid'ii: g)?
If, fpurning it with his foot, " go, ufelef's'::SSfer
metal, and become iron, if you wifh that I."
{hould value ydu 1" And, with thefe Wordsm

' he turned away from it, not deigning to lookii'ie ,1
. at it again. i
By dint of thinking, on the fubjeet over};i

 
  
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
 

u

' and over again, he, at @gth, remembered"
.r/ to have heard that the favages of fome na

tions make ufe offifh bones and {harp fiones

to fioint their lances and arrows; and here-"j g

folved to imitate them in this refpeet: at9

' ' the fthe fame time he formed the defign of mak>>
ing a lance or fpear.

Thefe two things were immediately put
into execurion. He ran to "the fea-fide,
and was lucky enough to find fome fifh
bones and {harp flirt-ts, exaetly 'fuch as he
wanted. , After this, he cut a long, {traight
flat? for the firear, and returned home wet
to the: very (kin. / -

In a flaw days the {pear and the arrows
were finiihed.. He had pointed the fiaear
with a {harp fione, and the arrows with firong
fiIh-bones; to the other end of his arrows
he tied. feathers, to make them fly the better.

He then tried, how his how would fhoot:

though it wanted a number of things, which
he could not pofiibly add torit for want of iron
tools, hefound it, however,tolerably handy for
ihooting' birds, or other fmall animals. He
did not even doubt but he Ihould be able,
with this bow, to wound a' naked favage
dangeroufly, provided the favage would" lei: ,
him come near enough. He had flil-l- bet-
ter reafon to be pleafed with his {pear}

E 2 His
His earthen pots and his lamp feemed
now to be fufliciently. dry.' He refolved,*:
therefore, to make ufe of them. In thefwg,
firfi place, he put into one of his new .pip';
kins a lump of fat, which he had taken out "L
of the lamas that he killed. This fat he in-
tended to melt, and ufe as oil for his.lamp. "
But he had the mortifi'cation to perceive?" 4.
that the fat, as foon as melted, foaked ' 1'
through the pipkin, and filtered out, drop

pipkin. He concluded from thence, that Ix."
the lamp and pots would have the fame de- 1h; '

feet, and confequently never be of any ufe (ii i
to him, a conjecture which experience very
foon verified. 7>>,
What a difagreeable accident l He had I
made himfelf fo happy in thinking that he
fllould foonlfpend the' evenings pleafantly
'by the light ofa lamp,'and be able, once
more, to taf'ce a difh of broth- ; but now all}-

thefe fine hopes feemed to van'iih in a mo-r
meat. "

'>PSmPSr'14;gfi;C/n
. . I .
_ . V - V"

Henry. -
Henry. It was 'certainly a great vexation
to fee fo much trouble loft. '

Mr. Bill. Without d0ubt it was lo; and
form: people, that I know, would have been
provoked to fling all the work away, and
never meddle with pot-making again. But
Robinfon was, by this time, pretty well
praetifed in' patience, and had taken it flrong--
ly in his head that a thing Ihould never be
done by halves, while it was poflible to fii--
nilh it completely. ' _

He fat down, therefore, in his' flueyigg

corner (for fo he called one of thecome'rs o '.. ~ ',

his cave, where he ufed to fit down when he
hada mind to' exercife his invention), and
there he rubbed his forehead. " WhenCe
comes it," {aid he to himfelf, " that the pots
- in Europe, which are made of earth as well
as mine, are, neverthelefi, much more ~com-

paet, and do not {oak through ?+W_h-y, that
is beeaufe they are glazed--~Huml Glazed P '
Now, what may that be properly, a-ndihow
is it done ?'Aha.! I think I know- . now!

Yes, it mufl: be [0! Have not I read {ome-

E 3 where, .where, that fand and feveral other fubftances, i

fuch as earthen veffels, are of the nature of! ' '

glafs, and might be turned into real giafs' '

by a firong fire? It mull certainly be {'0
that they manage it : they put the earthen g;
ware into a hot furnace, and when it beginsv -

i to melt, they take it out left it Ihould be up; \ 1' ,
tirely changed into glafs. Yes, yes, that is

the whole art. I mui't do in the fame man-g
ncr." .
No fooner {aid than done : he kindled a '1
good fire in his kitChen,' and when it was in _
'full blaze, he put one of the pipkins into the
very middle of it. However, it was not
long there before--crack it went, and fplit .1
in pieces. " Heyday!" faid Robinfon, ,
" who would have thought It. '" '

 

He fat down again in his I'tudying cor. .ii 1 ,

net. "What could have been the reafon
of this ?" faid he to himi'elfi--"- Have I
ever met with any thing fimilar to this be-
fore P--Eh! certainly I have. In winter-
time, when we have put a tumbler full of cold

water 0r beer on awarm (love, did not the

glafs _
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 95

.glafs breakimmediately ?---Has 1t ever hap-
pened that the glafs did not break. 7' Yes,
when it was put on the Prove before it was
quite hot, or when we put a piece of paper
under it. Very well: I am pretty fure of one
thing: ay, ay, that muft be the cafe. I
mutt take care not to put it upon the fire
all at once, but to let it grow warm firfi. I
mull: take care alfo that the fire do not come
to one of the ends of it--A lucky thOught. '-"
cried he, quite overjoyed and PtartinorU t,up to
make a fecond trial. '
V This fucceeded rather better. The pip--
kin did not fplit, but, then, on the other
' hand, It was not glazed neither. _

" How comes-this?" faid Robinfon to
himfelf. " And 'yet I thought the fire was hot
enough. What can it poflibly want (till. P"
After meditating a long time upon the mat-
ter, he thought: at length he had hit upon
the reafon. He had made the experiment
with a fire which was not clol'ed up in a .
fiove or oven, but burned in the open air.
This fire lofl' 1ts force too foon, and was too

E 4. " much
much fpread on every fid'e to heat the card: 11
then w'are fufficiently fbr glazing it. ROL 11
binibn, therefbre, determined to flick to his 7- '
prineipte of not doing things by halves, a11C/ '
to confirue't a proper oven or furnace liige: "
thofe 1n the potteries , but for this 1t was 1123:;
a quifite that the weather fhould be more fair.>>
vourable.
For, you mufl know, it rained fiill incefo 1~
fantly; nor did the.- flg,"abY='la{'t, begin to";
clear up till after the eXpiration of two'}
months, Robinfon thought now that the?
winter was going to fet 1n, whereas, behold '
ye, the winter was paft! He could fcarce '
believe his eyes, when he {aw every appear-_;
ance of fpring--the graf's green and tender, "'
the trees budding out and blofl'oming, and: >>
frefh flowers beginning every where to .31; '25}
g blow- , and yet it really was f0. The thing"?
Was beyond his comprehenfion, though heg _'

a warning to me," faid he, " never, for the
'futureflo deny any thing hafiily that I d6"
notunderftand."~

M721. 3211.' Mrs. Bill. Did not he go to bed when he
had {aid f0? '\

Geo. Oh! mama, we are none of us the
leak fleepy.

Mr. Bill. I am not very pofitive whethe}:
he did or not; my information fafls me in
that refpeeh However, as I find nothing
elfe remarkable m this day's occurrences,
as they appear in the old hifiory of Robin-_
fon's adventuxes on the ifland, I prefumc
that, after thefQ'Words, he aetuaiiy did go
to bed. And' we will do the fame, that"
like him, we may rife to.-morrow with. the
fun. '

 

E'LEVENT'H E'V-EN'VI'I'N'G;

EORGE, Pa 2, T ffiould like to be in:
G P

Robinfon' 5 place now.
M. Bill. Would y-ou rea'liy E."

E '5 W.ROW.

'arrows, and a fpear, and a fnug place to $1
live 1n. What more could he wifh. 5 ,g .2

' arrival of a {hip that would carry him to his. :g_

  
   
   
 
   
  
 
   

98' _ than NEW
Geo; Yes, for now he has every thing

oyl'cers , and do not the lamas give him,
milk 3 He can make butter and cheefe

Mr. Bill. So he has too, for ibme tzrne'gE l;
pail, though I forgot to mention it. {I
Geo. Well, and then he has a bow and; "f' l:

Mr. Bill. Robinfon knew very well the $3

God for them, neverthelefs, he would have '2'
given the half of his remaming life for the; l; .

own county. ~ . ,
V Geo. Ayl why what did he want flill FR OBJ'NVS QN' CRUSOE.' '-- 99,

ed thofe blemngs without which. there can '
be no true happinefs here below, as fociety,
friends, beings of his own fpecies, whom he
m1ght love, and by whom he might be, 111
his turn, beloved Far from his parents,
whom he had {0 feverely afi'lieted, far from:
his friends, whom he could not hope ever to
fie again ; far from men',' from all men,
from all the world; alas !. in this>> Imelan-v
choly, what joy could he tafie, had he even
the richefl: abundance poflible of all the;
good things which this earth affords P.- T 17y, _
my little friend, try only once, but. for one
fingle day, to be quite alone- in a folitary.
place, and then you will. know. whata. life of
folitude. is!

BEfides, ' Robinlon- was far from: having;
his many other wants gratified. His cloaths'
were falling by degrees all-tongs; nor: did:
he know how he was to have new cloaths
when thefe fhould be paft ufe. - ,

Rich. Oh- ' as to cloaths, he might went
well do without them 1n an ifl'and where 11:

was lb hot, and where there was no winter, :
E. 6r. Harriet;
  
    
  
  
   
    
  
   
 

go naked?
5 Mr. Bill. It is true, he had 'no occafiorn,
'for cloaths to protect him from the cold; 5' "
but he had much occafion for them tog'f}
guard his body from the infects with which5 g
this ifland fwarmed, particularly muflciy
toes.
Edw. What are thefe creatures, theIE:
mufkitoes. P J i _..
Mr. Bill. A fort of flies, whofe fling is; f
much more painful than that of ours. In .3: -
whatever country they are found, they tor-- .~ -
ment the natives exceedmgly; for their
{tings produce a'rmoft as painful fwellings as .
thofe of bees or wafps do with us. Robim a '
Ibn's face and hands were almoft alwaysw
fwelled with them. Now, what muI'c he ex- 5&5" '
peet to fquCi' when once his el-'oaths were >92:
worn out' and that time was coming very i};
fag. \' 5
' This, together with his earnei't and Iong~fl .-

.
mrwawrwah

l
<<A

as?

w -.
$23?"
from him, when flanding on the fea-fhore,
and looking, with moifiened eyes, over the
boundlefs (wean, he could clifl'inguifii nos
thing but the flea and my How did his
heart fometimes flutter with empty hope,
when, m the dif'tant horizon, be perceived a
finall cloud, which his imagination repreu
tented to him as a {hip in full faill. And,
when, at length, he difcovered his miftake,
how the tears (would trickle {tom his eyes,
and his heart'feem ready to buri't as he re-
turned home flowly to his habitation!

Harriet. He fhould have prayed for the
coming of. a lhip, perhaps his prayers
might have been heard.

Mr. Bill. He did fo, my. dear Harriet;
He prayed night and day for his deliverance
from the defett ifland'; but he never forgot,
at the fame time, to. add, " Not mine, 0
Lord! but thy will, be done."

Harrier; Why did he add that P .

Mr>>. Biil. Becaufe he was now perfectly
convinced that the Supreme Being knows
much better than we do what is for our ins,

terel'ts.3,?

teref'ts. He reafoned thus: " If it be the .
good pleafure of my heavenly Father to 1:
me remain here longer, he certainly has"? 3
very good reafons for it, thoughl cannot '3
fee them ; confequently, I ought to pray for
_my liberty, barely 0n condition that his will 5;},
dom {hall think it to be for my advantage."- ,3";
Left a veITel {hould happen any day toi 3;
pafs or call anchor near the ifland, at a tim _ _ '
when he was not near the fea-Ihore, he re-ia
folved to fix, on the neck of land which i
jutted out towards the fea, a fignal by whichli 3
all who fhould come in fight might be in;
formed of his dil'trefe. This fignal was no"%; mi
more than a pole, on the top of which hefi "i

fai'teried a banner.

 

 

ner. P ' *:SSSS

Mr. Bill. I- am- going to tell you. Hi5:," 3'
fhirt was then m fuch a Rate, that it was"; _ 1'-
impoflible to wear it longer. He tookgi": '3
therefore, the largeft flip of it, fhaped it into}:
a kind of banner or flag, and fixed it on their

, pole that he was to ftick. up.. ' Vi..........
He would have been .very glad to put up
alfo, on his pole, a label, with an infcription,
to give a eleai'er'idea of his difirefs; but
how was this to be done ? The only way in
his power was to cut out the letters with
his knife of Him. Next to this the queft'ion
was, in what language the infcription' fhoulcl
be. If it were Englifh, there might come '
by {hips of other nations, as Dutch, Spa-
nilh, or French, and the people might hap--
pen not to underfland it. Luckily he re-
colleeted fome Latin words, by which he
could exprefs what he wilhed. - '

Geo. But would feamen underfiand' that?

Mr. Bill. The Latin language, you;
know, is common in all countries of Em
rope, and mofi men who have received
any education, _ know, at leal't, fomeL
thing of it. Hence Robinfon hoped, that, in
whatever {hip pafi'ed that way, there might:
be one or two, at leal'c, who would under-l
Rand his infcription. He, therefOre, put it up.

Rick. What was it, then ?_ ' -

Mr. Bill. -Fer;e opem "ti/[era Roeiiyon'! Do
you underfiand, George R:

A Gm.'2' what he found [0 indifpenfably necefl'ary. 1,:

  
     
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
  

now was the want of fhoes and flockingse
They were fallen to pieces, and the mug:
kitoes did fo furioufly attack his naked; 3.
legs, that he knew not where to fly from )3 lg

them. His face, his hands, and his feet3.3

had multiplied prodigioufly, that he feemecii 3
no longer to be the fame perfon. Q
How often did he {it down 1n his Rudy..SS
ing corner,.to think of fome way to coveef'fifi
himfelf. T but always to no purpofe. He;
3311M neither infiruments nor flilll to pro-g .,_
ifvidc himfelf with what he wanted, and 333;;
.12

The {kins of the lamas that he had killed: ' 1 '
appeared the readieft means whereby he? __
might clothe himfelf; but thefe {kins werggfie.
flill raw and fiifi", and unfortunately he haciee:3

net in which tanners and curriers prepared? "j
'r
the .3 f
the raw hides; and even if he knew how to
do this, he had neither needle nor thread to
few the leather, or make it fervc for any
part of his drcfs. "

N evertheleie, neceflity was preffing. He
could neither work by day, nor fleep by
night, the flies did perfecute him {0, incef-
fantly with their f'tings. Something muff be

done, or fame fortunate accident take place

to hinder him frOm perifliing 1n the mofl'
miferabie manner. --' . ' . .
PS12122}. In. faet, to what purpofe were
thefe miferab.1e infeets created, fince they,
are'only a trouble and tOrmentto us} _.

' Mr. .8211. Why, I might, in my turn, afli
you, tO'What purpofe were we created, you,
and I, and other men. 3 .

Henry. On purport: that we might be
happy in the W011d.'
Mr. Bill. And what could have induced

' our Creator to propofe this objee't to himfelf'

in creating us?
Henry. His goodnefs, Which is 1'0 great
that he did not defire to be happy alone.. ~
Mr. Bill.
Mr. Bill. Very well, and do you not?"
think that thefe infeets alfo enjoy a forc- 05%.?
happinefs-i 1 igi :_

Henry. Yes, that I can eafily imagine.
We fee how they rejoice when the futi-
fliines and 1t is pretty hot. . v i

as their nature will permit them.
this-purpofe perfeelly' confiftentwith infinite '-
goodnefs?

that he has done no fuch thing.
Henry. Why? '

lfied ' 2
Henry. How {0. 9 g
1%. Bill. Becaufe we belong precifelyf;
nonvtnsou' C'RUSOE. 107'

the moi't devouring and defirue'tive fpecies
of animals in the world. All the other
creatures of . the earth are not only our
flaves,' but we even kill them at our plea-
fure; fometimes tog eat their fleih; {ome-
times to have their fkins; fometimes be-
caufe they are in ,our way; fomctimes for
other reafons which we could'not eafily juf-
tify. How much more caufe; therefore,
wouldthe infects have to afk Why that cruel
animal man was created? Now, what would
you anfwer to a fly that {hould afk you this
quei'tion. 9

Henry (bgf talmg ) Why--Indeed I don t
know.

Mr. Bill. Now, for my part, I would.

{peak to him in thefe'Words : " My friend

t Mr. Fly, your q'uefiion is very inconfiderate,

and (hem that you have not 'a thinking
head, and that you know-riot the art of re-
flection ; otherwife you would eafily have dill

covered; with the fmallefl grain of thought, '

that the Supreme Being hath, merely of his

goodnefs, created feveral of his creatures in
fuch" :08 '1' H 15 NE w '
inch a manner that one is obliged to live"; 3
upon others: for, if he had not done {0, {i
:he could not have created by one half foi-
many fpecies of animals. as he has, becaufe-
grafs and the fruits of the earth would: have?
been fufiicient but for a few fpecies of livi .
ing creatures. To the end, therefore, that
all nature might be animated--that there '5;
might be every where, in the water, in the
air, and on the earth, living animals whleh%g
lhould rejoice in their exiflence, and to 1118?>>
end that one fpecies of creatures might not%

multiply too much to the deflruetion of?

another, it was necelfary that our wife andI-W.'

   
   
   

     
   
  
 
 

creatures to furnilh the fubfiflencc of others 1%
Thou thyfelf, friend fly, dof'c feal'c on thefi:

devour thee as a {weet mo1fel. 3' ' .i-l

What think you, Henry? Would
the 'fly, if it were wife, be contented with
this anfwer? 3:
Hemy. I don' t know, papa. I air: con- '
tented.

Mr. Bill Well, now we will return to
our friend Robinfon. ,

Neceflity forced him to help himfelf'the '
bell: he could. He took the fltins, there-
fore, and cut out, of them with his/knife of
flint, but not without a great deal of trou-
ble, firfi a pair of fhoes, and then a pair of

' fiockings. He could not few either of them;

he was obliged, therefore, to content him-
felf with making eyelet--holes in them, and
lacing them to his legs and feet with a
firing; which was no doubt fubjeet to great
inconvenienciese for though he turned the
hair outwards, he {till felt a violent heat in
his feet. Belides, the fkin, which was {tiff
and hard, blif'cered his feet, and took the

' fkln off at the leat'c attempt that he made

to walk, and f0 caufed him very great pain.
However, he chofe to endure this rather

than the Rings of the mufleitoes.
Of another piece of (kin, which was vea- '
ry fiifi' and 'a little bent, he made a
. malk,
maik, cutting in it two fmall holes for the
eyes, and another for the mouth, that he "
might be able to breathe. if
And, fince he had begun this work, he re";
folved. not to quit it until he had finifhed
with making himfelf a jacket and trowfers'ig?
of lamas fkin. It is true, this tafk was; 1-1
much more difficult, but have we any thi ":31; 3,,
without trouble. P and what LS there 1n which";

The jacket was compofed of three pieces, '1:-
which were joined together by firings.

he put them both on, with the refolution' W";
never to drefs himfelf again in his old Eu
ropean cloaths, which were half torn to

pieces, except upon the birthdays of his fa
the

'11:ther and mother, which he celebrated as fo~
lemn fefiivals. V ' 4

His drefs was then. the mofi: fingular
that can be imagined: from head to' foot
covered in (kins, with the hair outwards;'
infiead of a fword, a large hatchet of' (tone
by his fide; on his back a pouch, with a
bow and quiver of arrows; in his right
hand a {pear almolt twice as long as/him-
felf, and in his left a wicker umbrella, co-
vered with leaves of the cocoa-nut tree:
laftly, upon his head, infiead of a hat, 'a'
cap of wicker-work, tiling in a point, and
covered in the fame manner with ikins, the-:-
hairs outward. Imagine to yourfelves what
a figure all this mutt cut: nobody that
{aw him accoutered in this extraordinary
equipage, would fufpeel: him to be a human'
creature ; nay, he 'could not help laughing
at himfelf, when, being on the bank of a
rivulet, he [aw his image in the water in this"
drefs for the firft time. ' '- '

After this, he refumed his potter's work.
The oven 'was foon' finilhed, and then he'
VOL. II. F had'had a mind to try whether, .by force ofmn I

fort of glazing on his pots. He put them;
therefore, and his pipkins into it, after which-fir!

, other. _T h1s . violent. fire .he kept up unti1_ __
. evening, {uttering it then to go out by de-.: 1' 1'
,grees, and being very curious :to know the'f, '

_ . took out was not glazed, notwithflanding 911 1%?
.-that he. had done, not the fecond neithexzr';

  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  

he made up by. degrees fo great a. fire, that:
the oven was red hot from. one end to the

refult of 1113 labour. But what, think ye,
,was the refult of it? ,_ The firfi pot that he

   
   
  
 
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
     

1'11

.nor,1n fhort, any of them. But, 11111111,.111; 1!.
1 examining one of the pipkins, he perceivedfi '
.with equal joy and .furptife, that this,- and 1;."-
.this alone, was. covered .at bottom "111111511,
1real glazing. 1 1,1
Ihis was to hima riddle which he could "
:by no means folve. " What teafon in 1111'>>.
world could there be,' ' {aid he, " why thtetV 1
gfingle pipkin 1s a little glazed, and 11011511151";
of the other veflels, though they were all;

31:".

made of 1he fame earth, and baked 1n one i
033d 3;

"iv ~ ''be 'thc-caufe' of the glazing.

R '0 B r-'N's.'o'T'N let: us 0 E. ' PS13
and rthe'lfarne ovenle"-4-He thought 'and
thought again, but he was at long time be-
fore he cauld fee the 'lealtl glimpfet'o'f any
thingith'at feem'ed likely'to explain the my!--

tery. . '

At length, he recollee'ted that there had

been 'a little {alt in this .pip'kin "when he

put .it .intothe oven. He could not help
thinking, therefore, that the {alt alone mutt

Ric/a. But Was it.really. the falt, ' papa, that
produced'thismfi'eet'? '

Mr. Bill. Yes: what Robinfon now'dif-_
covered by 'chat'rcehas been long known

'in Eumpe ;' thegadditio'n of {alt is the mic"

cauife Why many-things turnito glafis in the'

'fire: _fo that he only need have rubbed the

earthenware with {altfwateg or barely have

throWn a~littletfa1t into the men when [heated-,4

and immediately all his pots would have been

properly glazed. ' ' "- ' -
- This; therefore; he tefol've'd to-try>> the next

day. And nowthe fire blazed under his'oven, I
and already'he-had. rubbedfome thisWefl'els
' F '2 ~ with
with {alt water, and put dry {alt in others, on" _-
purpofe to make the two experiments at the'
fame time, when, in the midfi of his work,"
he was interrupted by an accident which he'-
had dreaded a long time--he was taken ill.)~ r ,

He felt pains in his breafi and head, and
a great wearinefs all over his limbs, and was
threatened with the moft terrible fituation' I;
that a man can poflibly experience.

" _Good Heaven!" {aid he to himfelf,
" what will become of me if I cannot rife '
out of bed ! if there is no compaflionate ,5
being to take care of me, and come to my " .

'afii'fiance in my illnefs! no friend to wipe 'i '
off the fweat of death from my forehead, 01%"; . . '
offer me any refrefhment l--eHeavens! what 5
will become of me. "' '

Sinking under the weight of his difl'rel's
as he {aid thefe words he fell to the ground
quite exhaufled.

.Ah! it was in this moment of trial that
he had more oc'cafion than ever to pofl'efs a
firm and filial confidence in his heavenly Fat-- 1}

ther, who is every where prefent, and fu-I g,

  
    
  
 
    
  

U

Q
"premcly good. Deprived of all human afi.
fifl'ance, forfaken by his own flrength, What
remained to- prevent his dying in mifcry?
N tithing but the afli'fiance of God ; no other
fupport had he to expeet' in. the whole
world. , , '

He was on the ground in an agony of
difirefs; his hands were clafped firongly

tOgether; and, unable to-'fpeak, unable to

think, he looked fledfafi'l'y np towards heaven.

" Oh, Lord!' Oh, Lord? Mercy!" was all

that he could utter now and then, fetching at
the lame time mofi heavy fighs and groansa

But this Rate of anxiety did" not fnfi'er
him-long "to remain inaefiive. He'mufieretf
up what firength' he had' {fill remaining, in
l(ardenifpofiible,to place near his bed whatever
he ihoulid mofl' want for refrefhment, that he
might not-be entirely deliitute of it, in cafe
the-ficknefs abfolutely'prevented' him from
filing. He was barely able to carry a cow'-
ple of cocoa-nut (hells full of water, and
place them befide his bed. He next laid

F 3 which

fome-roafied potatoes there, and four lemons '2me

.1 ,_flrmY=rmm. .M. -4'..-.'.'....,- ':_'-. ,. .1- .a-H-urjuumu-1'.-,1~.1,...:,.\-..v,.<"wt-m ., 1
.

. ' 73!". 1

.1116 1 THE Nbiw.

which he had fiill remaining, and then, 11019,,
able to fiir an inch farther, he fell down- with
wearinefs on his miferabie bed. - '

If it had pleated his Maker to take him,
out of the world by a fudden death, how con; ,_ xLa'f
tentedly would he have yielded up his lifeiii' L .

 
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 

foon he refiee'ted that this prayer was not. ';
reafonable. " Am Lnot archild of God 235'
{aid he to himfelf ;_"Am I not the Work of: ' ' '
his hands?. Is he not my father, and a ten-1.;
der, wife, and almighty father? How haVe ..
I, then, the boldnefs to prefcribe to him what '
he {hould do with me. 2 Both he not know ' -_'
beft what is good for me, and will he 1101.42,
38: f0 as to allot me that which 15 good21:, * :4

' Yes, he will; God IS benevolent, merciful, ' 3%

and almighty. Be at refi, then, 0 my foul;

aliil't thee, whether 1n life or in death!" 1
After thefe words he was fomewhat e113:

couraged, and raifinghimfelf upon his knees,- ,
' he;R'O B '1 NS "GEN .C'R'f'Ui S O'E.' 117
he {stayed with all the ear-neft'nefs Vpoflible',
faying, " I reiign *mylelf to thee, O my
heavenly Father, i relign myfelf to thy fa-
therly guidance! Difpofe of' me accdrding tb
thy good: pleafuret- I' 'wil-l3bear :eontentedl'y
whatfoever thottallotteft me; only grant me
firength' to beard-it is all-that =I afk- of thee.
O- merciful Father, grant me patience under
my afliietions, and an- u'nihaleen confidence
in thee. Hear this prayer, this only earneltv
prayer of thy pQOr child' who is in mii'ery;
hear it for thy- tender mercy 's fake. "'_' '

At- the fame time he was attacked with.- a
violent ague. Though he covered himfelf '
all over with the dried- lama. fliins, yet' he ,
couldtnotkeep himfelf warm. This cold' fit
lafied fulltwo hours, and- was fucceed'ed' by -'
ahot fit,which' was like a barning fire throngh
all: his veins. ~ His breafl, by "the violent
beating .of his. pulfe, heated and funklike the
breafi of. a perfon thatis out._'of breath with
running. In this terrible fituation ~lieihad

'fcarce firength enough to lift the c'oco'aanu't

F 4._ ifltell,>> A118 : 2r4111: NEW

hell, with the water in it, to his mouth, that
he might cool his burning tongue.
At length a violent fweat broke out all gig"
over his body 1n great drops, and that afford- } 1
ed him fome eafe. When, at the end of
about an hour, it abated, he recovered his
fpirits a little, and then he was difirei't with
the idea that his fire would go out if frefh
wood was not put on. He crept, therefore,:: 5,
weak as he was, upon all fours, and threw
as much wood upon the hearth as would fg
be fufficient to keep 1n the fire until the next -
morning , for night was now approaching.
It was the word night that ever he pafl'ed
in his life. The coldb and hot fit of his ague

   
    
   

He had a violent and continual pain" in his '-
head, and could not clofe his eyes the whole _ .
.night. All this weakened himfo much, ._ ._,
that in the morning he was fcarcely able to , ii?
crawl towards the heap of wood to repleniih 'i' '
his fire. 1'.)
Towards. evening his illnefs encteafed
1. afrefllgR'O'BINSIDN cxvsoa. my:

aftefli; he tried again to go as far as the
hearth, but for this time he found himfelf
unable. He was obliged, therefore, to give
up all thoughts of keeping 1n his fire; and
this, m effect, [can became a matter of mu
difference to him as he now expeeted death:
to approach in a fhort time; .

This night was. as refdefs as the'lal'tg Int
themean time the fire went out; the res-
mainder of' the water that: was in the cocoa>>
nut {hells began to fpoil; and Robinfon-wae'
no longer able to: turn himfelf in his :bed,
VHethought he felt the approachof death,
and his joy on this account afl'orded him fuf-
ficient firength- to prepare himfelf for: his lafi:
journey with a. devout prayer.

. He again humbly alked fdagivenefs of:
God for his fins, and then thanked him for
all the bleflings- that he had vouehfafed him;
---unworthy as he was--during the whole
courfe of his ,life.. But, particularly, he.
thanked :him for the , afliietions- whichfhad--
been fent him foe his amendment, and he-
acknowledged fincerely how wholefome they'

E 5 - had';120 I 'rJH-E. new}:

had been to him. Lafily, he prayed for the:
comfort and happinefs of his poor parents ;_
after which, he recommended his immortal,
foul to the eternal mercy of his God and Fat"
then--He then fettled himfelf, and" waited
for death with joyful hope. - ,
And, indeed, death .feemed to advance fa'fd:;_ :
his pains encreafed, his .breafi began to rat-' 3
tle, and his breathing becam'emore and more
difficult. 'Ah! behold the withedefor me. ,

. ,, , . ,
fuch as he had not felt before, feized his.
breafl; he fuddenly {topped breathing, felt'h
convulfive ihuddering, funk down on. his;
bed, and was depriVed of fenfe and motion. a ' 7
All the young company remained filent fouggg _ .. is

in. pretty long time, and by their forrow fhew-efE " 1
ed the refpee't that they bore to the memoryifl'i'f'
of their friend" whom they had never feen--ex '
" Poor Robinfon. '" cried fame of them, '
fighing. ." Heaven be praifed. '" {aid others, deg
" he is now delivered out of all his paint '"
And thus they feparated for that evening, rai :4 __
rher more quietly and with more appearance'es
9f thoughtfulnefs that) ufual. xiii."
' TWr-Lmfl ._no 3 In so N c R US 0 '12.? 12:.

l TIW'ELF'ITNH EVERi'N-G.'~7

Cgfldk L o TIE. 'Weu, papa,- what - 4

gig will y0u read us thisevcning? '
93:} M14". Bill.~ You a11:.feem _to- expeE't, my I
:4 dears, that .I Ihould read you. fomething; -

y ' inflrue'tiire- and, amufing for thircveni'ngz- ..'
2g What'fayrye 2" "-Shall I' go on with thc'ade. -
J 'vcnturcsgof Robinfon-Cfiufim P- " -
Charlotte. How! .why Robinfon is: dead; '
Rich. Dazno: be' in as hurry,-~ Chaxlotte.'
He may have recovered. Dan't you zes-i
._ , member. that we thoughthirndead: once be? ~
g; fore? And yet he wasal'w-c. :- _
"5": Mr Bill. :Wc. left. Robinfosi, after hisi' -'~
convulfivc 1huddering,fa'llen.mto afwoon,
deprived: of {cafe-and. modern,- and, in them,- ,

s??- ' more dead- thancalivcas neverthelcfsifhca
'1; came to himfclfi agaig,z:a,nd; recovered his
f Enfcs and facufiies..

F- 6: ' 731:2-
:22 ' THE NEW _
I Tbe Children. Ah! that IS right--we are- :-_'
all of us glad that he IS not dead"
Mr. Bill. The firi't token of his breath-
ing again was a. deep figh. He openshiss .t'
eyes, looks round him to know where he is.. '
At that moment he doubts his being alive ;
but his, doubtsare-lbon removed. He, then, '
falls intoa fit of melancholy, and, in his,. 1..
prefent- fituation, would, have preferred z;
death to life. -
He feelshimfelfvenyweak, but'free from x
allttroublefome pain. The burning hear, >> l
which tormented him before, is now fuczt
needed by a. kindly fweat alls over his body;
To encourage it, he covers himfelfwellnp. _
xvirh Ikins, and before half an hour was .at an: l

  
  
   
   
   
    
 
   
  
 
 
  

But now he was feized with a violent-"g '
thirft. The water that remained was no
longer drinkable: luckily, he thought of his
lemons:.\he put one of them to his- mouth, -
and fo weak was he that his teeth could ,
fcarcelyenter it, but when he had fucked an
little of the Juice, he found himfclf greatly

refreflzed,R'O'B ENSO'N e RVU-'s 'o E'. ' 1123'
nefrefhed, and. his thirPt quenched. He now

compofed hi'mfelf to refl, his perfpiration

{till continuing, and enjoyed an agreeable-
{lumber until funrile..

How pleafing was the fenfe of' his ex-
iftenee at prefent, compared with what he
had felt the day before !. The violence of
his diforder. was entirely abated; nothing re,-
mained of it but anexcefiive weaknefs. He
found his appetite return already; he took
a.roafiedpotatoe,and fprinkled it with a drop
of lemomjuice, to render it lefs, infipid and
more refl'efhing,.

For two days paft he had taken no no-
tice of his lamas, they now afforded a mov-
ing 'fightzfome of them lookedIat him, and
feemed to. afk. if he were recovered. yet.
Fortunately thefe' animals, as wellias ca-
mels, cando- withogt drinking. for feveral
days, otherwife they. would; have been very;

badly off, having never wettheir lips fontwo-

days., Befides, Robinfon being. yet. too
weak to. rife and fetch ethem. water, they
a ' wereHeaven. '.. Some beams of the rifing fu ,,

 
 
  
   
 
     
  
   
 
    
    
    

:24; '1' "H '12- N .1: war

were likely to be deprived of 1t ftill for {omen
time.

The oldeft of the lamas having ceme tip-{i
clofe to him, he exerted the little firength
that he had 111 milking her, that {he might
not. go, dry. Her.- milk, no doubt, affif'ted
Robinfon's recovery; for, after <<drinking it,
he~gfound himfelfieonfiderably better, . ,

After this, he fell afleep- again, enjoyed 2i- '
moff refrefhing (lumber, and did not awake
until funfet. . He perceived that his appeqe:
tite was encreafed: he fatisfied it again with:

fome potatoes fprinkled with lemon-juice,
and then went to ileep once more.

rife and attempt to walk a few. fieps, thnugh'
he fiill {taggered with weaknefs. _ ' _

He crawled out of his cave into the {pecan
before it. _ There he lifts up his eyes to12;.0 '34 8:8 ,0 N,. c R: .Uzs 0 EV. 12:51
piercing through, the leaves of the trees that
furrounded- him, _ Jhone angeeably on. 2M8 .
face, and. greganimatcdqhim with their plead .
fing warmth-.1, He;_tho_aght he felthimfelfi

receivenewhlifev ,"Etemai- bug-tee of be+

ing i", cried hex. f'-- God; of _ my _. life! while;

thanks fhalLl renderthee' for giving me to

behold, oncemore, the bright {tar of day,.a_nd _'
by ,its-ligh; thewonderfulworkfioflthy hands! -
Receive my giatitudeflor that thiondidft not?

forfake me wheiLa-ll forfook me'5.;for thatghou

bait refiored me to life afrefli, doubtlefls, in.

order that; Imay have more. time to devote

to repentahpe, .and that I may.,,not 'wafle a v

moment of myremaiping life withoutfor-
warding that work. the only one thing .ncedi
ful,'.,ghat Ixmay ever be found. ready to," take
my flight Itowargisfihe. .plage ofi man's eter-
nal defiination,'where each {hall receive .the
reward of his good or bad: a&ions.?'

From thefe effqfions ofgratitude. towards
his Creator, he naturally pafl'ed to,,,.the ad?
miration. of the creatures; His. lookszana
deged, ,qumetimes, over. the _ i-rmnepfity , of

heaven's 'r2'6' T'KE. NE'W"
heaven's azure vault; fornetimes over the '
frefh and fmiling v'erdure of the trees and
ihrubs, befprinkled with pearly dew; fome.
times on his lamas, which, by crowding
round him, feemed to carefs him and ex.
prefs their JOY. He felt a pleating cmoi
tion, like that of a traveller, who', after-a .
long abfence, enters, once more, the bof'orri'
of his beloved family. His heart being
moved with tendernefs, and overflowing
with the kindefl fentiments, which fought;
as it were, to expand themfelves, h'e flmd a
flood of tears, but they were tears of the."
purefl: JOY. V ' "
The advantage of being able to take the-
air, and the ure of milk mixed with rpring'fl
water,' together with the cohtentednefs of.
his mind, contributed to his perfect reco=
very. In a few days all his firength returm.
' ed, and he found himfelf m a capacity to be" ~
gin again his former occupations;
an agreeablefurprif'e ! All his vefl'els were
as well glazed as if they had been the work
of an experienced potter. ' In the height of
his joy for this fuccefs, .he does not perceive
that his ware is of no me to him; he forgets
that his fire is out. When; at length, he
recollee'ted this circumf'tance, he flood mo-
tionleis for a while,' and, hanging his head,
fixed his eyes, fometimes on his pots, fome-- ,
times on his fire-place, and ended with heav-
ing a deep figh. \ ' ,

Neve'rthele'fs, he was able this time to
moderate his vexation, and to contain it
within due bounds. " The fame good Pro-
vidence," {aid he to himfelf, " which before
provided you with fire, has always more
than one way at hand to' provide you with
it again, and. you will not be deprived Of it;
if Heaven thinks fit." Befides, he'was al;
ready taught that he had-not the rigors of
winter to fear ;' and though he was accufiomg
ed, from his childhood, 'to live chiefly on
meat, yethe heped to be able, and notinn

" ' ' conve~'128. T H :12 N: E w--
conveniently, to do without it, and-live-upon
fruits and. the milk of his Klamas. 1
Charlotte. Why; he- might-have ufed his-g
fmoked meat>>. for. vietualsg. there would:
have been no- necefiity for drefiing it.- -
Mr: Bill; That is true; but how was hegg
to have fmok'ed meat P '
Charlotte: Oh! I forgot that. ;
Mr. Bill. After all; he was not forry that;
he had made the pots :and pans : they were?t
convenient to hold his milk, and the largeth ._ . "I.
he intended for. a .very particular ufeg 1
Richizl/Yhat was that P : .
Mr. Bill._ He. i thought, if his potatoe'

"relifh them better than without.
Rick. I fuppofe To... .
Mr;=Bz'll, Not . being able to'makC "

drum of wood, he had. a mind. to try whee'iz,

{her he could not churn. butter in .a largefifi

earthen ._pot.. _ He gathered, therefore, as}?

much cream as he thought would be fuflia'tgfggg
cient. He {ha-pod out alfo a round flat'if '

Pi?"-- ofwood, in the-center of which he

made<..\.1PSv)lr x. ,
. 1

w
u
q

a
'xi," (.6
gi- "': in"?
, 1 ' ,7,

{W H 3'

_ W
made a hole to {eeeivc a flick. This in-
flrument he held upright in the. cream pot,
and moved it with art incefl'ant. motionflyp
5nd down! 'in 'and down; - until) the butter,
Was, 'a't'length, feparated from the'butterg
milk. He then wztflied the butter incleen '

fpring water, and made i it up witha little,
falt, . , '

.sz '

\

He was how, ohceirpore, happyin'the
accompliflnfierit ofhis defign; but, at". the;
very moment Whenhe, was going to reap the- '
fruits of his in'dtiflry' ,. and : perfeverance, he ,
recalleeted that he muftthinigno more off
potatoes,~ for Want of fire'ito roait them; a

, circumi'tance which,iin the warmth of exeg- '
cuting his defign, he had never on_ce thought?
of. He has butter, but he cammake no ufe
of it; he looks at it, he wifhes for it, he;
puts it from him, he grows forrowful. : Diff-1 '
appointed in his hopes, he findshimfelfjufi
as he was at firfi, 'ih danger of wanting eve;
ry thing. It is true, the oyfiers, the milk,
the cocoaenuts, and flefh, either raw or dried
in the fun,'might afl'ord'him nourifhment 5

but

. .emh...'=';.i'.- (LL-dng; A A'..; .._- - ;;._.._- M" " twm-.-
.
.

 

1'30 "'1' H E 'N 7E 'W

"better or more fecure.

 

Dreadful defiiny'! He cannot bear the
thought of It. He was nOW become f0 etc-9 9

What {hall he Undertake how?

  
       
 
     
 

 

,,. ,:

occupation. In the latter part of 1118 life, he

would often fay, that his reformation was" : '

labour, and he would add," confiant tam-PS9

ployment 15 the mother of a crowd of v1r7SSSS ,

vice." 4"'1! O'B'rI-rrs o-n- c mus 0E. '13"?
'7 Rirb. "He ' was very right; when one has

-' nothing to do, one thinks ofnothing but fol-

lies and nonfenfe. - 1
Mr. Bill. lt- 1s even [0, and, therefore;

- young perfons are advifed to accufiom them-

felves early to employment. The [charac-
ter that we chiefly put on when we are

--young, as idlenefs or indufiry, activity or

'flown'efs, virtue or w-iekednefs, generally rec
. mains with us all our lives.

Edw. We fhould apply that to oarfelves.
Mr. Bill. Do To, my dear children, and .

'conduft yourfelves accordingly: you will
<<never repent it. Our unfortunate Robina

fon turned and turned again on every fide,
toetry what he might undertake-1n order to

t-avoidjdlenefs. At length he found an em>>
ployment. Can you guefs what It was. 9

Ric/.1. -We1fe 11m his place, I=knowwha't~

.I would have done.

Mr. Bill. Ay. ' Let us hear your plan.
Rich. 1 would have undertaken to an,
the lama,fl<ins,vthat theirifiifi'neiis might not

.hnrtme whenl .put them (on. 'Belides, the

hair
hair muft be very inconvenient in a country
where the heat is {o exceflive. '
Mr. Bill. How would you have fet about
it. P = ;
Rich. Oh! I know very well how the
tanners do. We have been more than once .
to fee them at work.
Mr. Bill. Well. I
Rich. F irfl: they put the raw hides in wa-- .: :
ter, and let them fieep there for fame days ;1
from thence they carry them to the leg, mini":
which they fcrape them, to force out the
water withiwhich. they are foaked. After
fprinkling them with falt,'they cover them
up carefully to keep the air frOm them.- i
T his, they call fweating the fkins. In fae't,' ..
they do fweat whilfi: in this lituation: it is "
eafy to perceive a {team ifi'ue from them.
Thus prepared, they 'are eafily deprived of . '
their hair, which is done by fcraping them
again. _After this part 'of the work, they
put the {kins into what is called. the tan, 2
compofed of leaven, the bark of birch tree, .3;
and a {harp liquor made with oak bark. 1.".-
Lafily,
.o
~ .r-r

WWW

ROBINSON "CRUSOErlggl

"y 3% L'affly; they place them in the tan vat, where
:3 they'fprinkle th'etfi'wit'h a liquor made alfo
It is? of oak bark, and from hence they take them
. out to why or drefs them; in a word, to
:5 put the finifhing hand to them. \

Afr. Bill. Very well, my little' friend;
but do you know for what ufe 1kins thus
prepared by the tanners are intended ? '

A _ Rich. Oh! yes :1 they are made into
5% fhoes, boots, coach-harnefs, and many other
8 things. . a
Mr. Bill. Other things which do not re-
quire fo' {oft and pliable a leather as that,
for inflame, of which gloves are made.

Rid). Oh Lao. , '_

Mr, Bill. Who is it, then, that pre-
pares this fort of leather? . -

Rib/a. The fkinner or fellmonger: but
"we have never been in the workfhop of-any4 \
who follow that Bfifinefs.- ' ' .\

Mr. Bill. Robinfon was nearly in the"
fame predicament; He had never been in .
the wOrklhop either of tanner or fellmon--
geri confequently he could not endeavour
to imitate either of them. : '

You 11, G 54w,

.
'
_ t- u"u'l'.ul' km,
Edw. Then how does the fellmonger
manage his {kins ? ,.

Mr. Bill; He begins like the tanner,
with this difference, that he does not fieep: I
the lkins either in tan or in lime, (for this
is, alfo ufed by the tanners,) but he makes
ufe of warm water, with bran and leaven,
and' afterwards a lee of afhes :_-----but we will
go'f'ome day and fee them at work.

Rich. If he .had known the bufinel's even'
as well as any ikinner, he could not have
attempted to dtefs {kins for want :of bran
andleaven. , . _

Mr._Bill. That is clear: {0 that he was a"
obliged to give up all thoughts of it. '

Edw. But how, then, did he. intend to "
employ himfelf. P r-

Mr. Bill. His thoughts Were employed \
night and day about building a little boat.
Rich. What ufe did he intend to make:
of it. P

Mr. Bill. Do you all; what ufe. P To try, if
by means of it, to return amongfi: his fel-i ;
low-creatures, and to deliver himfelf from ,_,

the' "' \2 .1 1

ROBINSON 12111150121143; '

the {011 rude to which he was confined againft
his will, and which was become more 'difrnal
to' him ever fince he Was deprived o? fi1e.
He had reafo'n to think that the contincht of
America was not far 03', and he was de-
fermined, if he hada canoe, be it ejv r fo
flight, to face every danger, and/liar ,' if
po'flible, on this continent. Fuil of his
idea, he hafiened' 'out one day to feek nd

 

ments, to find, whether they woulda'nfwer

the purpofe of food. Amongft others, he

obferved fome fi'aiks of maize, eflndian
. corn, as it is cai'led. -

Edw. What, that fort of com of Which-

I ydu have two fine ears hanging up in '1th

back parlour? \ ' "

Mr. Bill. The fame. H ,--

' G 2 '

 

   
 
 

mined the
llargenefsof the heads, or; more properly
fpeahing, the ear-s, on each of which he
reckoned more than two hundred large
grains, clofelyranged, one befide the-other,
and :efembling grains of coral. He had
not e leai't doubt but thiS'corn might-be
ufed for food, or even for bread. -'But how
,was it to be ground 3 How was Moor
to feparated fromirhe bran? How was
it t be made into bread, or, indeed, into
foo 'of any fort. without the help of fire?
N Nithftanding all thefe confiderations,
he carried off fome. ears of it with him, in-
dng tofow the grains. " How do I
knob," {aid he, " but I may reap confide-
:able advantage from thefe in the end P"
1 A little further on he difcovered a fruit
tree ofa'fpecies 'quite new to him. From
this trec hung vafl: numbers of large hufks,
one of which he opened, and found in it .
about fixiy nuts ofaparticular fort. Though '
they were not very agreeable to the tai'te,
yet he put one or two of the ripeft hufks in-

.10 his polu" . e . _ . "
Rieb.Adi-3: Q s

_. Ron inson 'c'R'U'so'E. 1'37 .
5;": I Rich; But What frhit might that be P. ' "

Mr. Bill; They were cacao-nuts, of
which they make chocolate; '

Edw. Ah'! now he. may have chocolate
for the future. . _ ' a -
.Mr. Bill. Not fo fall. In' the firl'c place,

he does not know that he has chocolates
nuts in his pofi'efiion: befides, thefe nuts
ihOuld be mailed, then bruifed, and ground .,
up with fugar, and, we all know, he was as
little provided with fugar as with fire. In.
order._to improve the {layout of the choco-
late, they commonly add different Torts of"
fpices, as cardamum, vanilla, and cloVes-r
but thefe were unnecefl'ary niceties to be de-- -
prived of, which gave him-not the leae't
concern in compatifon with the want of ,
fire; v l l ' .
. . . At length he came to another tree, which
xii>> - was as little'known to him as the former.
' " The fruit of it'was'as large as' that of 'the
cocoa-nut tree; but 'had neither hulk not '
{hen : the whole was. eatable am? of an'exe
qnifite flavourw This tree was alfo quite
_ - G 3 - difi'etently\.' fufliciently. But then to cutxdown f0 ufe-

 

.'-:and againi't it, in his own mind, for .3 long
-teme, he carefully 'markedghe flier, that be

.138.- THENEW.
difi'erently {haped from ; ,the cocoa-nut
tree; It did not confifl, like the latter, of a
trunk which rifes firaight up its whole
height, and bears a topping of-thick foliage 5
but this had branches and leaves, like thofe
.of our fruittrees. i-He learned afterwards
that it'was the bread tree, {0 called becaufe
its fruit ferves the natives for bread, {ome-
timesjuft as it-grows, but morecommonly
pounded and made into .a lbrt of dough.
He'obferved, that the trunk of this tree,
from its great age, was already a little .hol- . 5,;
'_lowed on one fide 5 and, immediately he '4?
' thought it would anfwer'. for the boat that
he had in Contemplation, if he could only
find means to cut it down and hollow it

 

fill a tree, while, on the other hand, it .was
uncertain whether he mould .everbe able
,to make a'canoe of: it L--this thought fiat-
..tled him. After weighing every thing for

might
might find. it again, and went away without
having. determined upon any 1hing..
In his walk he found, what he had long
wiihed for, a parrot L's nofif. The xiifct'mery
gave him a great deal of pleafure. He went

' towards it without the leak noife, and, was

firetching out his hands to clap themon the
inefl; when the young pamots,,whi1_chwere

.fisrong and well fledged, took to flight, and .

.efcaped .fmm him' all but ' one, more flow
.than'thc ref't, which .could not get away, and

LrEmained his ;prifoner. He 'hafienedfihere-
fore, home to his habitation, more pleafed

than if he had found a treafureu
. Edw. But what great advantage did he
expeei: from a par-tot?

Mr. Bill. He hoped to teach (him to pro-
nounce fome words, that he might have the
{atisfaetion of hearing avoice which imitated
that of man. As to us who live 1n fociety,
who enjoy the happinefsflof feeing men every

,day, and hearing them, and converting with
.them, we, peghaps, may look upon it. as
a vet'y? trifling-3 and ,childiih fatisfaflion

which Robinfon promifed to himfelf from
- G4 . hearing

 

a. .11...._ .-.__._.1__ue7'..

4.."-
hearing the parrot's chatter; but if we place i :4:
ourfelves in the fame circumf'cances with

him, we {hall eafily be fenfible, that what to
us, in our prefent condition, appears but a
fluadow of pleafure, mufi affordfubflantial
fatisfaetion to poor Robinfon in his Rate of
folitude. _
When he came home, he made a cage as
well as he could, in which he lodged his
new guefi, placed it on one fide of his bed;
and went tO'reI't with a mind as happy and
rejoiced as that of a man who had gaineda'
new friend; ' '

THI'R'I'EENTH EVENING.

MRsBz'll. I" have affernbl'ed you this
' evening fooner than ufual, becaufe:
my clears, I intend to hold a confultation
with you before I go on with the f'tory.

Ebe-

. '4 "' t .
$4.) 1'.- >>'2' 9r.

WWW" v

   

' \

knos-'ruso'n- cnvson. 34.";
- We Children. Well, papa; 'we' are now; ->
all in our places. What is to be the {uh-g i
jee't. '

Mr. Bill. It is a quell-ion which has dif-- I
turbed Robinfon' s mind all night, and has;
not fufi'ered him to clofe his-eyes'a. mo.-

. merit. ' '7

'fbe. Children. What eould it be? .

Mr. Bill. It is this. Shall. he cutdowm
the bread tree which he faw the day before,
or leave it fianding as it is, uncertain whee>>
ther he fhould ever be able to make a boat: '
of it P ~

Rich. I {houlfd' be far from meddling:
with It. .

Edw. For my part, I would cut it down.

Mi. 3le Here are two oppofite votes,
one for cutting down, the other. for preferv--
ing 'the tree. 1:" us hear-- thofe who have;
not fpoken yet on the fub'jeet-

Geo. I am of the fame way of thinking -

V with Richard. '

Charlotte. And. foam I, papa, we mnfi;
l'zs the tree Rand. . . '

6.5; 2 ' Hana;

/1-42 " "T "H E 'N AEZ'W'T

Hem'y. No 3 it mufi be out down; the
unfortunate RObinfon mufi haVe a canoe.

Harriet. Indeed I think f0 too.

Mei Bill. The voices are divided, and
equal on both fides. Let thofe who are for
cutting down the tree come on my right
hand, and thofe who are of the contrary opi~
nion on my left. Very well, both paxt--ies
face each other. Let us now hear the tea--
ibns that each will advance m favour of his
opinion. Richard filallf peak firfi, and tell
us why he rs forf swing the tree. ; '

Rieb. Becaafe it bears a va: uable 5132 t,
and the {peei es is rare upon the zfiand. '

Edw. I: IS but an old tree, the advan--
tage ofgathering fruit from It will not 121?:
long .

Rich." How can yoh ieH .that P It has
but a'flight hollow in it'aS' yet; and how
many trees do we fee, the trunks of which,
though hollow, do not hinder them From
bearing fruitr -or many years?

Herfiet. Let Robinfon dnlyo grafi a few

{1193'
cflips of this tree, he 'Wfil be {are to Preferve ~

the fpecies.
Geo. Ay! Do they grow up and bear

fruit fo foon. P Four or five years may very
well pafs before he has any fruit.
Henry. And is it not better to have __a
canoe, and net-um to the {oeiety of men, than
to flay m his ifland, though he were to feed

' ever fo plentifully upon the bread made of

athe fruit of this .tree. P
.Rz'cb, Why, 2y, if the canoe <<could he
zfimnlfid .{0 :very icon. But how is he to
-cutsd0wn this tree ? HOW is hegto hollow
itsout,' with not-hing but a .ftone :hatehetg? 7
Edw. Let {him work with perfevetanee- ,
let him -not be impatieht: I dare fay he- will.
accent-1pm mat lafs'c. ' we -
' Geo. But he has no fail- -Wha-t voyage
flan :he undertake an an open boat. P ,
Hmriet. He may ufe oars. . '
Ebarlafie. A pretty notion indeed! Do
mot you remember when we were in a boat

down the-river, meat Putney, and: oneof. the

:watenheo5 oars broke, he was, obliged so
5. G. .6, _. gogo 511mm and borrow another, as he faid'we
could not be rowed home with only one? I
Edw. Oh! that was a- large boat, and
there were nine-or ten of us in it. ' But Roa-- ' ,5
binfon, in his little fkifi; wants nothing but ' I .
a pair of oars to guide himfiflf happily far-
away f'rom his prefent folitary habitation.
LMr. Bfll. You fee, my dear Children,
the quefiion is not lb eafy to refolve; None '
of the reafons that you have mentidned on'
both fides had- efcaped Robinfon's attention;
He had pafi'ed the whole night in-refleetingx; '
for to examine whether it be more conve-
nient to do a-- thing, or not to do it, is called
' wfleflz'ng. ' Ever fin'ce Robinfon had felt'the
bitter confequences of his hafty. refolution:
to travel, he had made it a law with himfelf '
never. to, undertake any thing Without firflf
maturely. 'reflee'ting upon: it 5. and in the
prefent cafe, 'alf'o, he determines to-obferve-
that law- Having turned: the quellion:
and exarnined it.in every point of view, he-
imnd it came to no more than this :5 What
the: it be reafonablc to facrifice a.flight,.buc.certain advantage to a great one, but un-

certain? Here he recolieeted the fable of
" the-dog,which,.fwimming acroi'sariver with I
a piece of meat in his mouth, lof't it by ens- . ,
deavouring to fnatch'at the refleekionof it inn

the water. He remembered, on the Other
hand, the cu-flom- of hufbandmen; who fa--
crifice- grain which they might make ufe of,

but do'it with the hope of being richly repaid >

by a plentiful harvefh

" Yes," {aid he to himfelf " the dog's. .

greedinefs was folly , he catch'ed at a vain-
Ihadow,whieh' it was impoflibie for him to-
pofl'efs. But the hope of the huibandman,
on the other hand~,_is-well founded,.and, his

coming? fenfible-g he has in View a, real ads" I

vantageghough, it is true, fomc aceidents may
hinder him from obtaining it.

" Am I not, therefore, in the fi'tuation oPS
the farmer? With perfevering labour, may

. I; not hope to fucceed, at length, .in making

a-can'oe out of this old tree 9 And if my
firfi- undertaking fucceeds, does reafon forbid

me to: expeet that I- may. efcape from this,

folitat):

/m",

146. THENEW

{olitary ifland, and arrive, by means of my '

canoe, at fome place inhabited by men. 9"
Thisrhought, fo flattering to his warmeft '5

Wilkes, made a lively imprefiion on him; f0

1
I

3'5 44"" . 7" 1
fiMWMm

. {\M

c
ya:

lush-ii

:5."
that he fiarted up that moment, took his if;
hatchet, ran to thetree, and cut into it. .7 - if

If ever he undertook a long and 'trouble- '5?
Iome talk, it was certainly this. A thoufand :5;
:other men would have been difcouragedz,

the hatchet would have fallen out of their
hands after the vfiril :flrokez; they would have e~ ,
looked upon the undertaking, if not extrava- '
:gant', .at leafl as i1npoflible.But we have few!
already, that Robinfon made it arule never (so
.'fufi'er himfelf to .be turned from his pmrpofe 5??
when he had well confidered it , he was, $3

  

' '3

< therefore, unihakeii in his refolu-tion of go- . f; ".
ing through with this enterprize. Were it
to cofi him: twice the time and fatigue that:

it required yet the thought of girdng it up-
'zgwould never enter his head. From the {on so
tiling till about 110011, he never ccaled work- ,~~:
ing, and then his hand would have cowered 4
_ tor fill-ed up the hole that he hadmade in the
.1 trunk. ' .dwwmsyhmivaz$50.1}. .. ,..:....u, V, ...J,.uu\.\l...i.:.,.......:n.1 .. zgfiaiwthwflwgaiumwm Infimwxmwwmukxg1 \ /"'j V --

. nostusox c'Ruson. :47
trunk by the thoufands- ofdl'trokes- which: he,
laid on it. From this we may form foine idea
how long a time it wiii require. him" to cut
down a tree of fuch a thicknefsyarrd to- make
aboatofit. - ' C/ 4.

Being convinced that it would be a work
of forrie years, he thought proper to regulate
his occupations, and divide his time, f0 that
each part of the day might have' 18 ovim work
allotted to itfelf. Experience had taught
him, that, in a life of labour, nothing helps
induflry [0 much as regularity, and a? metho.
dical' difiribution of the work to the difl'e'rent
hours of the day, I will give you an ac-. '_
count of the divifion that he made, of his.

, time and his occupationS, each of iitihich: _

g? had its peculiar portion of the day to itfelfi--

11 He rofe at break of day, and went dike-my
{if to the fpring, where he wafhed his head,
hands, breafi, and feet. Having no' linen to

wipe himfelf dry, he let the air dry his body',:
and afiifled it by running, as be generally ,
did, {iraight home to finifh drefiing himfelf

A. 1,; He then went up to the top of the hillo'eit

4;, , at ' .[-148 T H E 'N' 1-: w 1
at the foot of which his cave was fituated. i
His fight being then hindered by no objeel',
he traverfed, at one view, all the. beauties of
nature that were comprifed 1n this vafi_ ho- :3:
film]. The fight elevated his foul. In the ii

~pofture, therefore, which he thought molt 1!. i
irefpeflful, and 1n the iiucerity of his, heart, '
he worfhipped and prayed to the Author of
all Things, and never failed particularly to .11,
entreat that he would make his parents hap- it
:py, whom, though he had forfaken he ne- '1
.ver forgot. He then returned to his cave,
and milked his lamas, which were now en- _
,creafed in number to a little flock. He
breakfafied on fome of the new milk, and
the kit he put up in his cellar. Thefe
were the cares that employed the firi't hour
of the day.'

Now, being provided with whatever was
inecefl'ary to his {ecurity or his convenience
in working, he went down, if it was low
water, to the {ea fide, where he gathered .}
what oyiiers he could find for his dinner, if '
not, he repaired immediately to the tree of

which j<<R o B 1 us oil when U." o E. 449
which he intended to make ,a canoe. His
lamas generally followed him, andgraiized
about while he was at work.. V
. About ten o'clock the heat was generally
f0 exeefiive that he was obliged toguit his
work. He then went to the fea--fide to look
for oyf'ters, if he had not found- any in the
morning, and at. the fame :time to bathe,/
which he did regularly twice 'a day. Befbre
noon he returned home with his flock. \

He now'milked his lamas'a {econd time,

'prepared a for: .of . cheefe from the; mill;
which had eurdled, and then laid tout this '

dinner, which, being tolerably frugal, was
foon done. - It confified =of new icheefe dip-
ped in milk, fame pyfiers, and half- a co-
coa- nut. T here was one circumfia-nce of
which he had no reafgn to complain, and *

aha: was, that he had not by half f0 great

an appetite in this hot, country as people"
generally have in: cold climates: yet, a;.
.hevwasacsufiomcd from his ehildhogd to
eating meat,- he lgn'ged for :it, and, in order a
1.0 {atisfly his with as far as was pollible, had
recourferecourf'e to his fcheme of drying it in the?- '5.
fun. At dinner time, he amufed himfelf'
with his parrot; he {poke to it, and {re-5 "
quently repeated certain words,with the hope- .
of hearing it pronounce fome of them. one,= .-
day or another.
Henry. What did- he feed it with P" v s
Mr. Bil '

to eat :' f'o that Robinfon was
very well able to keep his with chcefe and:

After dinner,

he commonly repofed him'.
feh'; for an hour,

either under' the {hade in
the open air-, or elfe in his- cave furrounded ' iii
, by his lamas, and with his parrot at his fide'. ,3
3 Sometimes, as he fat, he would fix his eyes, '
upon thefe animals, and {peak to them (like i
a child that {peaks to its doll), as if he ex~
t peeted them to underfiand what he faid...
So necefi'ary did he findIit- to (10
his ideas and his fenti

 

mmunicate:
meats to-living creah. i
' (meg, .no Bi N s in: CR bson. 715i;
tux-es, that hefl'oftengforgot the impoflihility
of his being unde'rfiood bytthe animals whiCh'
furtounded him. YWhen his parrot, which '
he called Poll, repeated a word difiinetly, in"
the height of his joy he would imagine that '
he had heard the voice of a man.>> He for.
got ifland, lamas, parrot, and all; his fancy
made him fuppofe himfeIf' in the midif of
human creatures again. But foon recoi'er- '
ing from this pleafing illufion,' andfinding

himfelf in adifmal folitude, he would figh ' '

heavily, and breathe {Orth this ihOrt exp'ref-
fion of complaint, " Poor Robinfon!"---
About two o'clock

'Ezlw. How could he ' always tellwhat
hour it was 9 , '-

Mr. Bill. He did as hufbandrhen {ome-
times do; he obferved the height of the fun,
and judged from thence that it was fuch or
fuch an hour nearly.----Abo'ut~-two o'clock
he returned to the tree to work at his grand
defign. He continued two hours each time
at this laborious talk, and then returned to
the beach to bathe himfelfagain, and t6 ga'~

.. e the!152 . TH E is E w it;
ther mere oyfter's. The rePc of the day he"-
fpent in waking at his garden. Sometimes;
he {owed maize, or: planted potatoes, hoping
' that, .if he fliould ever have. fire lagai .
might both be of great advantage to him. 5;.
Sometimes he grafted fiom the bread tree ;/
fometimes he watered the young grafts;fome- g
times he would plant a quick'fet hedge to en- i ;
eiofe his garden; fometimes he cropped the . Z>>:
willows .which furrounded the {pace before i
his cave; he' bent and fixed their branches 3
in fueh aman'ner, that as they grew they' g
. might form a kind of bower. 7 . '1
Much to Robinfon's grief; the longefl: -- "3
day was, in his ifl'and, but thirteen hours.
In the middle of fummer it was>> night at I I i
{even o'clock.~ Whatever require-d4 day-
light for the performance of it, moi} be fi-
nifhed before that time. Therefore, as night 1;:
drew On, that is to fay, about fix o'clock, ' i V!
if he had no other more important bufinefs
Upon his hands, he went through his exer-
cife.

Kirk. .VV hat does that mean,

 

papa P
fl/Ir'.'" R o 3 IN 5 ON ,c R us of.
Mr..BiIl.. It means that he exercifcd. him.'

favage or a wild bea'lt; for he Was never
perfeetly'free from the dread of thefe; By.
degrees, he acquired f0 greata degree of"
dexterity in both the exercifes above men-'2

fize of a crown, though at a prettygood
diftance from him. When night: cameion,
he went home to milk his lamas, for. the
third time, and took a moderate {upper by
the light of the moon or liars. ,
Laflly, he crowned, the labours of the
day by meditating at night upon his OWn.
Conduct. Sometimes 'he went to fit upon-
the top of the hillock, from whence he
could behold the {tarry vault of heaven at
one View, anda'co'ntemplate it with admira-T
tion. Sometimes, alfo, he took a walk upon
the fe'a-fidegr to breathe the air frelhen'ed by
the evening breeze. Then, he would all;
himfelf--i" How have you {pent the day 2' I
V ~ 3 Having

r53 '
{elf at {booting with- the bow; and'throviiin'gi

the fpear,' that he might be able'toidefend: ~
himfelf ifhe fhould happen to: meetwith a,- ;

tio'ned,that he feldom mifi'ed a'mark ofthev . -

__ __ ALflai154. T n E N .1>>: w (Na, _.

Having received fr'efh mercies, have you
blefl'ed the divine fource from which they
flowed? Has your heart been filled with
love and gratitude to your heavenly Bene-
factor 9 In your trouble have you put your
confidence in him? ,.In your gratifications
have you forgot him? Have you rejeeted '
.the evil thoughts that offered themfelves to
your imagination? Have you fupprefi'ed
the extravagant Wilhes that rofe in your
breaft P In a Word, are you become really
better than you were i" ' '
. Whenever to thefe'or the like quefiions
his confcience could return a good anfiver,
and. tefiify that the Rate of his foul was
comfortable, he fung a hymn to the praife
of the Supreme Being who had afiifted him
in advancing one Peep in the road to virtue.
When, on the 'contrary, he had march to
be not f0 well pleafed with himfelf, the
thoughts of having thus loft a day filled
him with forrow; for he counted the day i
elofl: when he had thought or done any thing
which he could not approve at night.' ;
Whenever 'Tii+i RQBINSON c'gusoE:155
Whenever this was the cafe, then clofe by
the notch that he made every day upon the

tree which ferved him by way of almanac}: .

*" LeAt (

he made two notches crofling each- other ;,

and this ferved to put him 1n mind of. his ,
fault, that for the future he might be better '

on his guard, and not fall into the fame

error. imi; 1 01
Thus, my dear chiltiren, Robinfon la..-

boured to correct himfelf and to beeome

better every day. Do you alfo fincerely "

refolve to form your hearts to virtue? I
advil'e you to follow the example that he

' now gives you. . Like him, referve an hour
privately every evening, to give an' adcount '

to yourfelves in filence of the manner: in

which you have {pent the day , and, if you '

find, either in your thoughts, Words, or
aetions, any thing which your confciences

dare not avow, keep a book wherein you'

may mark down the fame, to put you in

mind of 1t from time to time, that, having- 1

before your eyes the fault of which you
have once been guilty, you may ever afier-'

V01... II. H wards 1

1,;. 1156' ' 'r H i if E" {1", '&C/i
wards- take more-cereto avoid it>> 'By thug
labouring to improve yourlelves every day,
you will alfo continually encreafe' your ov'vn
fitisfa&ion and happinefs.

My dear children, idoub: n61; that you
will afford me every proof of your attentioti
and do'cilit'y, and this very night begih to'

- to put ..in praeticc the good advice Which 1' '
Ii'aVe jufl now given you. '

4"

END 6: Twigzconn vommz,a: i Y .F.H: . .'.L a!!! I55: 1 .1, 1' s. .
EEilrvly