CRUSQE, ; ~' "i
The Baldwin Library"
University
of
FloridaTHE

\VONDERFUL LIFE

[3- SURPRISING ADVENTURES
w .

OP

ROBINSON CRUSOE ;
Who lived 28 Yeahs

A; AALA . A _

a
11
J
ON 1

AN UMNHABITED ISLAND. -' "41

WITH curs BY BEWICK. ' 5%
5 , r o R K: ~ ' ,

 

 

tPrinted by and for T WILsON and R 32133191?
High Oufegate.1802.

(PRICE sxxrmcz.)W JUIVH' rlulul

"flair? Mw'k'qu'" 'W W}.nix
LIFE and ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSQE.

WAS born of a'good family in the city onork,
where my father, who was a native ofBremen, had

ettled after his having got a handfome eflate by'

merchandize. My heart began to be very early
filled with rambling thoughts, and tho', when I
grew up, my father often perfuaded me to fettle to
fame buiinelis, and my mother lifted the tendereli;
intreaties, yet nothing could prevail upon me to
lay afide my defire of going to {ca 5 and I at length
refolved to gratify my rovmg difpofition, notwith-
ltanding the extreme uneafinels my father and
mother always fllowed at the thoughts of my leaving
them. As if bent. on my own deltruetion, 1 hard;--
ened myfelf againfl: the prudent and kind adviceiof
the molt indulgent parents; and being one day at:
Hull, where I met with one of my companions, who
was going to {ea in his father's thip, he'ealily per.
{uadcd me to go with him. . ' . '

A36 nonmson cursors.

On the firlt of September, 16 51, I went on board
this (hip, which was bound for London, and with-
out letting my father know the ralh and dil'obedient
fiep I had taken, fet fail; but 'no fooner. was the
(hip out of the Humber, than the wind began to
blow, and the {ea to rife in a molt terrible manner.
Having never been at feet before,._ I,was extremely
fick, and my mind was filled with terror. I then
began to grow {enfible oif my wickednefs in dif-
bbeying the hail of parents, and their good coun-
fel, tears and in'treaties came afrelh into; my mind,
and filled me with fear and remo'rfe. I'expeeted
every wave would {wallow us up, and in the agony
of my mind, made vows and refolutions, thatjf it-
ihould pleafe God to fpare my life in this .one voy. .
age, I would go direEtly home to my father, and '
and never fet foot into a {hip again.

The next .day the wind abated, and the fee grew.
calm; I was no longer Tea-lick, and my companion
laughed at my fears; he ridiculed my gravity, and
with a bowl of punch made me half drunk, and thus
drowned my repentance and all my fober reflee'tions,
The weather continued'calm forxfeveral days, and
we at length came into Yarmouth road, where we

call: anchor to wait for a wind. ' After riding here
four or five days, the wind blew very hard, the
road, hoivever, being reckoned almoft as good as a n
harbour, we. were under .no apprehenfions, but
{pent the time in tea; and mirth, 'till the eighth day
in>> themorningtwhen .th'e'wind increafed, ' and We
had'all hands at work to (trike our topmafm and
to ealt'ourflxeet anchor-i~ ' ' ' ' ' '
i" . ' ' " . , "IROBINSON causoe. 7

It now blew a terrible l'torm ; I began to fee ter-
ror and amazement in the. faces even of the feamen
themfelves; and as the mailer pafl'ed by me, I coulll-
hear him fay fold)! to himfelf, " Lord be merciful
to us, we {hall all be loft." During the firlt hurry,
I was flupid, lying {kill in my cabin in the "Garage.
I could illrefume the penitence I had lo apparently
trampled upon : I even hardened mylelt again" it,-
and thought that this-ltorm Would pafs'ove't' like the
firll". But when the maller came by-me,-vand-PS1id'
We lhould all be <<loll, I was terribly frightened b. I
got up out of my. cabin, and looked. abOut; but
Inch 3 difinal fight I never before faw; the'fea' ram
mountains high? and brokeupon us eVery three'or
four minutes : A "tip foundered at adilfanee; mo'
fllips'that were near us, 'had cutitheir mails by'th'e'
board; and the mate and boatl-'wain begged- ot the
mailer to let them cut away our'foremafi'."

I cannot exprefs the horror of minti with which I
was then feized; I was in ten times more terror on
aceount of my having, flighted. my former convi'e-'
tio'ns, than-even- at death itlelf. The {form kill! in.
ereafed, and I fat'w' (what ist too fildom-feen)
the mailer, the boattwain, and feyeral' others, at
prayers, expeeting that etery moment the (hip
would go- to the bottom. In the middie'of the
night, one of the meng-who had been!>> downp on-
- purpofe, cried out we had {prong a leak, and fhad
four feet water in the hold, upon which-all hand:
were called to the pump. I workedwith-the "It;
but thevwater gained, upon us, and "it was apparent
that the {hip would founder; the (term, however, be- K
ginning to abate, the malter fired guns for help, and-

' a light (hip, who had 'rid it out jul't a-head of us,

ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the
utmofi: hazard that it came near us ; but the men
ventured their lives to fave ours; and our men catt-

'ing a rope over the (tern with a buoy, they, after

much labour and hazard, got hold of it, and we,
hauling them clole under the {termgot all into the
boat. But we had hardly left the (hip a quarter of an
hour, when We {aw her founder: My heart was in a
manner dead. within me, with fright, horror of
mind, and the thoughts of what was yet before me.

- Asit is impoflible for the boat H get up with the
{hip to which (he belonged,we endeavoured to reach
the (bore, and partly by rowing, and partly by being
driven by the waves, we at lafl,:with great difficulty,
got to land, and walked to Yarmouth. .

'_ Had I now had the fenfe to return home, my fa-
flier would have remind me with tendernefs ; but
a weak and foolifh [hame oppofedall thoughts of it.

I remained fome time in doubtwhat courfe to take; . '3.
but having money inmy pocket, I travelled to Lon-
don by land. . i . . . ' .

On my arival in that-city, I happily fell into no
bad company ; but being well drefled, I contraEted
an acquaintance with'the matter of a {hipwho had
been on the coait of Guinea, and having had good
fuccefs there, was refolvedto go again; and he tak>> '
ing a fancy to me, told me that ifI would go the 3
voyage with him, I (hould be at no expenfe; and -
1f I would carry any thing with me, I (hould havenomnson causoe. 9 ,

the advantage of trading for myfelf. Encouraged

by this offer, by the aflil'cance of fame of my rela-

i tions, with whom I flill correlponded, I railed 401.
which I laid out in {non toys and triflcs, as my friend,
the Captain, direeied me to buy. This voyage
made me both a failor and a merchant; for I brought:
home five pounds nine ounces of gold doll for my
adventure, which yielded me in London, at my
return, almofl goo]. .

I was now let up for a Guinea trader; and my
friend, to my great misfortune, dying {con after his
arrival, I refolved to go the fame voyage again,and
having left zool. in the hands of my friend's widow,
I embarked in the fame velTel with one who was
his mate in the former voyage, and had now the 1
command of the Ihip. This was one of the molt , '
unhaphy voyages that ever man had made; for as .
we were fleeting between the Canary'iflands and the
Amati there, we were furprifed in . the gray of the

' morning by a Moorifh rover of Sallee, who gave
c ale to us, with all the fail {he could make. About
t i ce in the aft noon" he came up with us, and a
very (mart engagement enfued; but after having -. '
twice cleared the deck of the Moors, and loft three of
our men, and had eight wounded. We were obliged L
tofubmit, and were all carried prifoners into Sallee, '
a port belonging to the Moors. \ :

The ufage I found was not {0 dreadful as I at firlt
apprehended; nor was I carried, as the tell of our
men were, to the Emperor's Court, but was kept by
the Captain of the rover as his own prize, and made
1115 Have. '

'1".

~ a--__. ,-"7' __w--Tv-------_;.

10 _ ROBINSON CRUSOE.

. My matter having the long-boat of our Engliih
, (hip, had a little {late room, or cabin, built in the
. middle of it, like a barge, In this pleafure boat he
: frequently went out a fifhing, and as I was molt
-' , (leXtemUs at catching filh for him, he never went
Without me. One day he had appointed to go out
' 'j in; this boat with two or three Moors of {umediltinc-
. tion. But in the morning he came on board, tell-
a, ing me that his guelta had declined going, and or-
" ' dered me, with the man and boy; to tail out with
:--1 " the boat and catch fome filh, for his friends were to
fup with him.
.i -At this moment, the hopes of my deliverance
g darted into my thoughts, and I refolved to furnifh
: myfelf for a voyage. I told the Moor, that we mufl:
; A not prefume to eat our mafier's 'bread ; he {aid that
.- yvas true, and brought a large bafket of milk, and
three jars of frefh water into the boat. I knew
;_ where my mafier's cafe of bottles flood, which ap,
3% peared byitheir make to have been taken out of fame
' Englilh prize, and I conveyed them into the bo'atg
1 while the Moor, whom we called Muley, was on
t more; amt alfo a great lump of beeswax, with a

{' parcel of twine, of which I afterwards made can.
gflles, a hatchet, a law, and a hammer.

raj, Everything being prepared, we failed out of the -

port to filli; but purpol'ely catching none, I told
l Muley, thatfliis wouldnot' do, and that we mult
f "and further olivine!) be agreeing to, fet the tails,
and I having 'tlxe helm, ran the boat out near a
league" father; and then brought her 'to as if I
would fills, when giving the boy the helm, I fiept'koamsou CRUSOI. n

 

? ' if forwards, and {towing behind the Moor, took him
i by lurprife, and toffed him overboard into the fee;
' 4 he arofe immediately, for he fwam like a cork, and

i ' ' called to me to take him in; but fetching one of the
z fowlingmieces, I prefented it at him, and told him
i- that if he came near the boat, I would (hoot him
" through the head; but as the fee was calm, he

=3 might eafily reach the fhore. So he turned about,
and fwam towards the land, and as he was an excel-"
.lent fwimmer, I, make no doubt but he reached ,i
with cafe. - , _ e z
'When he, was gone, I turned to the boy, whom
( they called Xury, and {aid to him,_,Xury, .if you
' will be faithful tome, I willmake you a great man,
but if you will not flroke your face to be true to me,
(that is, fwear by Mahomet and his father's heard)
I mull" throw you into the feat too. The boy
finiled in my face, and fpoke fo innocently, that I
could not mifirufl him; he {wore to be faithful to
me, and togo over all the world with,me. ,
While I was in view of Muley, I flood out tofea,
4;th he might think me gone 'to the Straits, as
' "y body in his writs would have done; butit no .
Lower grew dark, than I foolilhly changedimy
3

u". *

 

NV" .
"a

ourfe and fieered to the fcuth, and, having a frefh
ale of wind, I made fuch fail, that before the end
_ of the next day, I believe, I was beyond the Em-
if peror of Morocco's dominipns. Yetvfo dreadful
t
J
1

iv

were my apprehenfions of falling again into my I
mafter's hands, that I, would not [lap to goon
more, till I had failed in that manner five days ; 2
and then the wind fhifting to the fouthward, I ven-fpeare;
Engll
' while;
more}?

 

"is 16313303 czvsoz.

tured' to come to an anchor at the mouth of. a 11:6?
I'WCI'. ' ' , ' . _ :'

' The principal thing I wanted was Erelh water.
We entered the creek in the'evening, relolved to
fwim on {here as form as 'it was dark; but we then
beard fuch aidreadful roaring- and howling of the
wild beans, that the poor boy was ready tozdie with
f'ear, and begged of me not to 'go on {hora till day.

 

' Well Xury; fnid I, then I won't, butwe may then

'ifee men2 who willfbe as bad-to us asthofe lions:
Then we may give them the (hoot gun,' fayqu'ry,
laughingmagke then: run weya Snoh'Englilh Xury
fpeke, .by'mnverfingr among us flaveC/ '
But'tho' "It was no lefs afraid of the favages than

. of the' wild beafis, our neeeflities obliged us to land,

for we had not a pint of water left I then ~gave
Xur'y a dran'a outfof the cafe'of-bottles, and having

v yvas 1* battled the boat asi near the [bore as we thought

proper, waded to land, carrying nothinggbut'bur

arms, anditWo jars for water, which we filled and
then let fail." ~ - ' 1 '"

- Se'Veral times after we were obliged to go am 'e'

- for- ffielh water : - and once in paticular, rcomihg '

an; anehor,~?arl_y in the morning, under a little'po'i 1'

0 land, and'ftaying for the tide to go farther'i ,fi

Xury called {oftly tome; and. told me, that "had

belhgo- 'ffir'ther'ofl' 'theilhore; for, fays he", look

yonder lies- a dreadful monfler {alt afleep.- I

    

q! looked' where he pointed; and-{aw- a great lion that
lax-ohthe'fide of the more, under the lhade of a

one"
" k V a; I. {land
: and I
_\ leagur'
"Would

 
 
  
 
 
 

 

nonmson causo'ii}

which, charging my three guns, I_ took aim at his
head, and {hat him dead on the fpot." I now re-
folved to take of? his fltin, and going alhore, the

. boy and I accomplilhed it, but not without great

labour. Then fpreading it on the top of our cabin,
the fun dried it in two day: time, and it afterwards
ferveil me to lie upon. ' a

After this llop, we (till prOCeeded to the {outli-
Ward for ten or twelve days, in hopes of making the
river Gambia or Senegal. or' of meeting with fume
European (hip, living all the while very fparingly
on our provifions which began to grow lhort. We
now {aw that the land was inhabited, and that the
people were black. Drawing nearer to land, they
ran along the {here a good way, with no weapons
in their hands except one of them, who had alance.
I made figns to them for. fomething to eat, and
they making to me to Ray, I lowered my fail, and
lay by while two of them ran upinto the country,
and in leis than in half an hour returned highly-(o
pieces of dried flefh, and tome corn; they brought
it to the ibore, and laying it down, went away.
and flood at a difiance till we fetched it on board,
and then returned. \Ve made fighs to thank them,
for we had nothing that we could give them in is;
turn.

At this infiant an Opportunity offered of "obligin;i
them, for two furious wild bealts, one purfuing thg
other, came running with great fwiftnets fro ht
mountaihs. Thel'e naked people were ten' 13
frighted, efpecially the women's and all fled ex:.. ' --'
-----------------------w .t 1

., , (<<Samson causoz. ' ' :3

the man who had the lance. But without attemptr
5'. ing tofall upon the negroes, they'plungedinto the
fea, and at latt one of them came nearer our boat

\then I at firl't expected. However I was prepared

for him, and as foon as he came within myreacb, I

fired, and (hot him through the head. When
' firuggling for life, he made towards the (here; but
died beftre he could reach it.

It is impoffible to exprefs thealtonifhment of thefe
poor creatures at the noife and fire ofthe gun; fume
were ready to die for fear, and fell down as if-dead
with terror. But when they [am the creature dead, "
and that I made figns to them to come to the fhore, '3'
they took courage, returned, and began to fe'arch
for the creator who had funk. I found him by
his blood flaini' the water, and by the help ofa
ro e which I flunground him, and gave the Negroes
to haul, they dragged him to landgand found-that
he was fine leopard, molt beautifully fpctted.
The, 0 er creature, frighted at the gun, fwam

back to (bore, and ran directly to the mountains.
' I ("on found that the Negroes were for eating
the flalh of the leopard, and I made figns to them
that they might take it, at which they feemed ex-
tremely pleafed They immediately fell to work,
and with'a {harpened piece of hard wood, took of?

his fki'n more readily than I could have done with

a' knife. _

'Igbey offered me {om-e of the flefh, which' T dc.
clin'ed accepting; but made figns for the lkin, which
they freely gave me, and brought me a great deal
more of'their provifions,which I accepted.:69 nonrNsox causox.

A!' out ten days after, as I was fleeting out to Pea;
in on'ergu doubfi: a cape, I had the firm offome
ilianfs, which I {uppofcd to he Hici'e of Cape'Vci-dc.

I was afiaid of venturing {0 far from the (here,
fir if I ihould be lakcn with :1 fi'cfh ga'e of wind;

I might never be, a'nie to reach again eithir'lhecne
or the other. In this dilemma I ('3: down in the
cabin; when, on a {udder ,Xury cried out in a fright,
hiafier, Z'vIafier, a (hip! iooiifhly imagining that
it was his hiafier's i'Hin, some fo far in purfuit of
us. l Ijumped out oi'thc cabin, and {aw that it
was a Portuguei'e veffai. I infiamiy iiretcbed out
to fen with all the fail I could make. ,

_ On my coming near, they afked me what Iwas, ii!
Poxtuguefc, in Spanix'h, and. in Frehch; but 1- un-
derflcod none oft'nem: at lafi a Scotk failor on board
caiied to me, and I anfwered, I was an Englifl'zman'
that had made my ef'cape out of (Livery from ti e
Moors at Sallee. Then they bid me come ox'board, '5
and very kindiy took me in, and all my goods.

NI}; joy at this deliverance was inexprefiibie. f
immediateiy offered all I had to the Captain of the
ibip; but he gencruuf'zy told. me, he wouldvvtake no.
thing from me; he [aid that all I hadfhimid b'e dc;
livexed {afe (6 me, when I came to the Brazi1553rid:
that he would fave my M: on no other terms, than
on fucii as he would 1).:- glad'xoi be raved himfelf, i?
ever he happened to he in my candiiion. He ofiit'red2
mc 80 pieces of eight for my boat, 40- d'ucats for
the lion's fkin,:md 20 for the leopard's,'endfor inf
hay Xury he ofl'ercd me 60 pieces of eight, which;

~ - . r: ;- . . .>> V

~1-_ --' 'lROBINSON 0811502. 17

I was loath to take; for I'was unwilling to fell the
boy's liberty who had afl'lfled me lo faithfully in
procuring thy own; but when I told him the reafon,
he on ned it to be jufl, and ofi'cred to give the boy
an obligation to fet him free in ten years, if he turn-
ed Chriflian; and Xury readily confenting, I let
the Captain have him. ' ' i

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils,and ar.
rived in All Saints Bay in about twenty-two days.
The generous treatment 'ofthe Captain I can never
enough admire; he recommended me to an hand!
man who had a plantation and a fugar houfe, with
whom I lived till I had learnt the manner of plant.
ing and making fugar, after which I took out a let.
ter of naturalization, pm chafed a pieCe of land that
was uncultivated, and became a planter.

I at fiift laboured under fome difficulties. and
was obliged to- undergo much fatigue. For two
years I rather planted for food than for any thing
elle; but havingat length cleared a {ufiicient quan.
tity of land, I planted fometobacco and a fewfugar
canes, and began to thrive. Meanwhile the good
Captain who had taken me up at lea, and whom I
had intruded with getting for me, on his return to
Eumpe, half the money 1 had left in London, re-
ceived 1001. out of the 2001.1 had left there, and lay,-
ing it out to the belt advantage, in tools and Englilh
cloth, Raff's, &c_. he arrived in Brazil with his trea-
fure, which turned to great account, and enabled
me to advance my plantation, and to purchale two
Negro: flaves, and an Egropcan fervent.

333 nanmson 91211503,!

Had I continued {rt--the Ration {was new M1,?
might havehecn happy, put gmwing rich apace,
my headbegan to be full of projeets and undertak-
ings beysnd my reach. Ihad lived here-about
fouryears, and had not only learned the language,
but contracted an acqnfintancc and friendthip
amofig my feHow-pianters, and {everal merchants.
I had frequcnfly'talkcd to them of the method of
purchafing Negroes on the wait of Guinea, and
they baing pleaful with th; project, eaflly prevailed
on me to make a voyage for that purpofe, We.
fitted out a {hip of about no tuns burdtn, which
carried fix guns, and 14. men. bcfides the mafter.
his boy, and myfciF; and had no other cargo, but
{hell toys as were fit for trading with the Negroes.

In this "131-1 I {ct {321, with the hopes of pun-chalk
ing flaves, to afiift us in our p'nnzations ; and ficod
to the northward in order; to flied} over to the
A Mean coalt. '..'c1'.ad we" ggiod weather for-about
m'elvedAys; but {con 'aftcx'we had cx'cfl'ed the line,
a violent hurricane tit-o'xc us quite cm of our know.
ledge, and many days togethqr not any in the (hip
expected to fave their liX'CS. in this dif'n'efs one of-
our men died of_ a calcnture, and a man and a boy
were waf'acd cvsrbonrd ; but abuut thc twelfth day
the {form floating, we fmmd wc_ were in II deg.
North Lat. upon the coat": of Guinea, upon which it
was refoited to Rand away for Barbadoes, in order.
to refit. With this defign we changcqi our courfc;
but {cc-n after a {econd florm arofc, which carried.
us with the 1;. 2e impgtuoflty weftward, and dawn;

3
IS out ofthe way of all human commerce. In thiag.

(Niels. one of our men, early one morning, cried

out Land ! and we had no fooner run out of the
cabin, in hopes of {seing where we were, but the fltip
firock upon a land, and in a moment, her motion
being (lapped, the feet broke over her in Inch 3 man-
ner, that we expected we {hould all have printed.
I: is not eafy to conceive our contlernation,'_fon
as the rage of the lea Was {till great, we {uppofed

,

thatthe Ship would in a tew minute: break to pieces.
Before the {form we had a boat at the Item, but: '_
{he was [loved by dalhing againfl the {hip's rudder.
Vie had another boat on board, which the mate
laid hold of,and with the help cfthe tell ofthe men,
flung her over the {hip's fide, and getting all into
her, being eleven in number, committed ourfelves
to God's mercy ; the wind driving us towards the '
there, we {con plainly law that the fea went {0 higls
that the boat could not efcape, and that we mould
be inevitably drowned. We fieered towards land ;
but after we had rowed, or rather been driven about
a league and a half, a wave, mountain high, came
rolling a-tlem of us, atid took us with iuch fut-y,
that i: overfet the boat at once, and feparated us than:
one another. This wave carried me a valt way to.
wards the {nore,and having {pent itfelf,went back and
left me upon the landalmofi dry, but halfdeod with.
the water I took in; I had,ho.wever,{o much pretence
of mind as well as breath, left, that feeing mylelf
nearer the main land than I expected, I got upon my
feet, am endeavouifid "intake towazds it, as fall a:

 

I
'F

l

'l---~o---..._._.....u.__ ,A........._..__r__' - _,. _.

go ROBINSON CRUSOB.

I coultl, before another war: flxould return : but I
law the [ca come after me as l'sigl': as a gmuluil, and
as furious as an enemy, which -I but no means or
fircngth to contend with; my bufitiex's was to hold
my breath, and mile mylelt upon the water, ifI
Could; at the lame time taking care that it did not
carry me back with it, when it retired towards the
fez. \Vave alter wwe hurrying me along as be.
fore, at 1311 d:. lied me agamlt a piece of rock, and.
left me {entlt is; but recovering before the return
of another, l lzeltl hit by the rock till the wave
abated ; and tlicn rm again. In fltort. after another
wave or two I got to the mam land, clambered up
the clilts of me there, and fut me down upon the
grats.

I now began to thank God that my life was fav-
ed, and tiling up, [walked about on the more,
filled with eclla'y and wrnpt upin contemplation of
my own happy. deliverance.

' But I {non found my comforts abate ; for I was
wet, and had no ciotlies to (hilt me ; and looking
round. I {aw ro profpte't but that of pcriflttng with
hunger, or of being devoured by wild bealls; for I
had no- weapon either to kill any creature tor my
'utlenance. or to amend me from any beal'ts that
'mtght kill me 102- theirs; in a word, I had nothing
about me but a knile, a tobacco pipe', and a little
tobacco in a lrox ; this <<as all my previfion ; and
hight coming on,'I walked about a furlong from
the (hon: to fee if I could find any frelh water to
think, which I did to my great joy; and having
drank, and put a little tobacco in my mouth to pre-
vent hunger, I climbed intoa tree. I then cut a {hort
thick flick for my defence; endeavoured to place
myfelf {o as that if! {hould fleep, I might not fall,
and being much fatigued, flept very comfortably
till morning. -

. When 1 awaked, it was broad day, the weather
clear, and the (term abated ; but what furprifed
me molt was, that in the night the (hip had been
lifted up from the {and by the {welling ofthe tide
and driven almofi as far as the rock, againll which I
had been dafhed, and the {landing upright, I wilhed
myfclf on board.

A little after noon, I found the fee very calm.
and the tide'ebbed {0 far out, that I could come
within a quarter of a mile of the {him when I law
glaatif'ue had flayed on board, we had all been fate,
and I had not been {0 milerahle as to'be left deficit-Ute
ofzill mycompanyand'comfort; and this forced tears
into my eyes. The weather heing extremely hot,
I pulled off my clothes, and took to the water;
but when I came to the map, I found no means as
getting on board, the lying' [0 high, that I could
find nothing within my reach; I {want round her
twice, and the fecond time, ohl'erving a {mall piece
of rope hanging down, I got hold of it and got into
the lorieallle. Here I found that the {hip was
bulged, and had a great deal of water in the hold;
but to my great joy few that all the {hip's provifions
' were dry; and being well difpofed- to eat, I went

.into the bread room, and flipping on a wailtcoat.

ha"-- fl-

8... A.

 

a: aosxmon causes.

fiilled my pockets with bifcuit, and eat as I went
about othgr'things : I alfo found fome rum in the .
great cabin, offi- hit}: I took a large dram, to enable
me to accomplilh my defign.

As I found leveral {gal-e yards, and fome large
feats of wood, I let them down with ropes by the
fiii-p's fides, and going to them, tied them together,
and made a raft, placing feveral pieces of plank
upon them'crcfs ways; alt-er which, I laid upon it
all the pieces of board that came to hand. I next
broke open and emptied three of the feumen'schefls,
then lowered them down npon the raft, and filled
them with hrsad, fume dried goat's. flclh, and
thxee Dutch cheefes. I found feveral cafes of bot-
ties, in which were fome cordial waters, and
about five or fix gallons of arrac; thefe If'towed

, by themfelves, there being no room for them in

the chefls.' I alfo let down tlze carpenter's chcfi,
which was worth more to me than a {hip load of
gold. I next found two good fnwixlg--pieces, and
two .piflols, with fome powder horns, two barrels
of priwder, and two old rul'ty fworzls, all of which
I placed on the raft, and with this invaluable cargo
refolved to put to {ca without either fails, oars, or
rudder ; but the tide was ndw rifmg, and :et in for
the flmre, and '<<he little wind there was, blew to-
wards land; befides I found two or three broken oars
that belonged to the boat, which fer ved me to pufh
the raft along. a

For about a mile my raft went very well, and

with it I entered a creek; but after having {everal24

times narrowly efcaped overfetting it, I thg'pf't it
on a flat pie'c: of ground, over which the tide flow-
ed, and there taflened it by {licking my broken cars
into the ground. Thus I flayed till the water ebv
bed, when I placed my cargo [ate on land.

At night I barricadoed myle t round with the
chefis and boards I had brought on there, of which
I had made a kind of hut.

The next day, confidering that I might yet get
many uleful things outof'the fiiip, particularly the
rigging and fails I retoived to makea l'ecomi v0} age.
My raft being too unwieldy, I (wan) to the {hip
and made another, on which I placed two or three
bags of naiis and fifikes, {ome hatchets" a gzin"
{tonemwo or three iron crows, {even izitailtefe, and
another fowiing-piece, two barrels of moth-cit bul-
lets,_ a large bag of {mail fiiot, all the men's doth-es
I could find, a {quare forev'top fail, a hammock,
and fome bedding; and all thefe to my very great
comfort, I brought fafe to land.

I now went to wait to make a lithe hot with
the fail and {owe poles, which'Icut fat that puma-(e;
and into it I brought every thing {knew would (poi!
either"iwith the fun or rain; I'piled. Sell the empty
chalk and cafks in a ciicle round the hut to fortify
it from any l'uddcn attempt from man or beafl; I

blocked up the door with boards, and {presiding
one of; the beds upon the ground, laying my two
piflols'j'ufi at my head, a'nd'my'gun by me," *I Went
to bed.

It blew very hard all night, and in the morning
when I looked out, no more (hi9 was to beaten, I
was a little finprifed; however, I con r

-'u

o:
with the refinfiion, that I had made the bdi: of my

time, I now went in {earth of a place '1 here 'i
might fix my dwelling; endeavouring to chole one

where I might have the advantage ofa lzeatizy {ima-
tion, frefli water, and fecurity from being fur-
prifed by man or any ravenous bkall'. I found 5'.
little plain on the lids of a rifiing bill, which was
there as {leap as :he lids ofa houfe, {0 that nothing
Could come down to me from the top; on the fill:
of'tliis rock wag a hollow plat , ike the entrance
ofa cave, before which I i'el'olved to fix my tent.
This plain was not abcvc moo yards broad, and
twice as long, defcending to the {63. , '
Before I let up my tent, I mew an haifcircle
before the hollow place, which extender? 20 yards,
and in this half circle pitched two rows of {bong
flakes, driving them into the ground like piles;
they liood about five feet and a half out ofthe
ground, {liai'pened on the top. This coe'rme much
-time and labour, efpecisily in cutting the pilssi
the wood, bringing them to the place, and driving
' them into the earth. The enrrartce I made by a.
{hen ladder to go over the top, Which, alum I
was in, .I lifted over after i = Into this fence,

a~c

Iby degi'ees carried all my riches, all my proz-ifions,

ammunition, and fierce, and made me a large

tent to {centre myfclf and them from the weather.

'Wlien .I- had done this, I began to work my- Way
into the rock, which was prerty {of}, layin all the
r-earzh and times I dugout within my fence, in tll
manner ofa terrace, and thus I had a cave iufi ba-
biml my tent.

(D

F

n",

'ted myfiif

_._.-._.- <.......

     

ROBmsON CRFSoz.

The filfl time I went out, I had the pleaz'ure to
find, that there were goats in the iflamd; but they
were fo fhy, f0 (uhtle, and {o {wift'of foot, that
it was the melt difficult thing in the world to come
up with them ; but obferving that they did not
crafily fee objectsahove them, I killed them byclimb-
ing the rocks, and lhooting at thofe in the valleys.
During thefe rounds, I found in the Woods a kind
of wild pigeons, which built in holes ofthe rocks; SS
and taking fome young ones, Iendeavoured to breed js
them up tame, but when they grew old they ..
flew away ; however I frequently found their "
nails, and got their young ones, which were very f2
good meat.

After I had been about ten or twelve days on
more, it cameinto my thoughts that I {hould lofe
my reckoning of time, and {hould not be able to dis.
xinguilh the Sundays from the working days. To
prevent this, I (et up a large fquare pott on the
ihme where I firl'r landed, and cut upon it with a
knife. " I came on {hare here the 30th of Sept. K
1659." Upon the fides I cut every day a notch, '
and every feventh notch 'was as long again as the
fell, and every firlt of the month as long again as
that long one; and thus I kept myweekly, monthly, '
and yearly reckoning.

I had got from the (hip, {ome pens, ink, and pa. W
per; fome mathematicrfl inflruments, and three good I '
hihles, with feveral other books, which I carefully
finned. 1 alfo brought to (hone with me two cats,
and a dog (wan: on (here, who wasa trufly fervent

@2911"

ammo:

:3

hbmeD'mNHF-iwzuflfl

5-1 99

G

5:35
to me many years ; nay, he was ['0 good a com-
panion, that Liens at a lofs for nothing he could

fetch me; and he only wanted the power of (reach
to become a molt agreeable friend. Though I had
amafied fomuth, there were many things I want-
ed, fuch'asal'pade, picknx, an} (hovel, needles,
pins, and thread ; as forlinen, I lbon learnt well
enough to do whhout it; but the want of tools
made every thing go on ilowly.

When my habitation was fiuifhed, according to
my firft plan, I found it far too {mall to contain
my move-ables ; every thing was in a confuled ~
and I had hardly room to turn myfelf ; fo I let
about enlarging my cave, and laboured heartily till
I had worked fideway's into the rock farther than
my outfide pale, andhewing a way through, made
a back door to my (torehoufe. But I had scarcely
finifhed my habitation, when I had like to have
been buried in its, rains. I was at work full in the
entrance of my 'cave, when all of a {udden the
earth came tumbling down'from the roofoftbe cave
and the edge ofthe hillmvermy head. I washeartily
feared, and though :hetcp of my cave was falling.
in ; and for fear of being buried in the rubbifhtl
ran forwards to my ladder, and not thinking myfelf
{afe even there, got over the wall, left {ome pieces
ofthe hill {hould roll down upon me, I was no
fooner on the ground, but it {hook violently unrlgr
me. There were three (books at abou: eight mi-
nutes dil'cance, fuch as I believe would have over-Z
turned the firongett building; and about hait'a mule

' C 1' --V+'----"'--v
22 ROBINSON cavsot. _ i

from me, a great piece ofa rock fell down, withth: ' >1
moft terrible noife I ever heard. ' ,2

The fear of being ,fwallowed up alive prevented g?
my fleeping in quiet, and Ithoughtof making my-
felfa tent at fume difiance from .the rock; yet the f
apprehenfions of lying abroad without a fence was ~
almoft equally terrible, and when I {aw mylelf con-- i
Cealed and {afefrom every other danger, I was loath '*
to remove.

In fome little time I recovered from my fright,
and after that frequently killed goats for my fub- ,.
fif'tance, whofe fat fupplied my lamp, which was a If;

_ (lilh made ofclay baked in the fun, and for a wick _j
I made me of oakum. I'n themidfl of all my la- '9": '
hours, when I was rummaging among my things,
I- found a little bag with a few huflts of corn in it, 1 .
{hook it out' by the fide of my fortification. This . '
was jull: before fome heavy rain, and about a month
afterwards I faw fome green (talks {hooting out of j!
the ground: but how great was my allonithmenr,
when, (time time after, I {aw about ten or twelve ears 2'"
of barley :' It was fometime before I recolleeted 3 i
the bag with the hufks, and I thought that. they ':
could have been produced by nothing lefs than a
miracle. With this barley there alfo came up a
few (talks of rice, and thefe were worth more to me
than fifty times their weight in gold, and l. carefully
preferved them for feed. , A 1 ,

WV hen I had been abou--t'a yearin the ifland, I was i
taken ext-reinely ill, uhic 1 frightened me terribly, ;
imagining I {hould (lie for want of proper help.-.;- nos-mt" w

v<~ ",5... '. <<.A'r'
_. 9)

 

abninson causes. 2-9
This fit of illnefs proved a'violent agile, WhiCh
made me {0 weak I could hardly carry my gun.
and when the fit was on me, I was almolt penihed
with thirfl.' V 7 , _

Soon after my recovery, I took a furvey of the
ifland, and at about two miles difiance from my ha-
bitation,~ found fome fine favannahs, and' a little
further a variety of fruit, melons upon the ground,
and vines fpread over the trees, coveredwith clus-
ters of ripe grapes. I pr'OCeeded with my difco-
varies; and travelled four miles farther, when I_
came to an Opening that feemed to defcend to the
welt, where every thing was in {uch conltant'ver-
dure, that it'looked like a beautiful garden. I"
went into this delicious valley, and found cocoa,
orange, lemon, and Citron trees. Inowhad buli-
nefs enough, for I retoliled to lay' up a (lore. I
hurried fome grapes and a few limes back with me,
but the grapes were fpoiled before I got home, I'
went- the next day with bags, thinking to bring
home my hat-veil; but I found alarge parcel of
grapes which I had laid on a heap, lpread almoad
and trod to pieces. I therefore found, that there
was no laying them up on heaps, nor carrying them
away in lacks, time they would be cru'fh'cd by their
own weight; {0 [gathered a large quantity oftheni
and hung them upon the out- brahches of't'hef'tre'es,
that they might cure and dry in the biz? but as
for the limes and lemons, 1 carried 35 many as I
could well ltaml under. ' ' ' .
I was {0 enamoured vgth this place, that I built
3>>36 - aoatmow enema" l

myfelf a boxer, fenced with a double hedge ;~ and'
this country houfe, as I called it,.cul't me two
months labour; but I hardly began to enjoy my
habitation, when the rains came on. and I wast
obliged to retreat to my old one, taking with me
my grapes, which were now become fine raifins of'
the fun. ' , u

The rainy and dry feafons now appeared regular
to me ; but I bought my experience before I had it'.
I dug a piece of ground as well as 1 could,,with 21-.
Wooden fpade of my own making, and began to"
few my grain ;. but as I was doing it, it occurred to
my thoughts, that I would not low all for fear it
thould not grow, {u I refereed about a handful of ;
each fort; and well it was I did {0; for it did not "
come up till many months afterwards. When I'
{aw it did not grow, I fought for moifter ground,
and dug up a piece near my new bower, which
apfwered to my wilhee, and my crop amounted to
about halfa peek of each kind; by this means I' -
was made mafier'of my bufinefs; knew when to ll)

3

 

(one, and that I might expeet two feed times, and

two harve'fts evexy year; for the com I fet fi'rfl came
up after the next wet feafon. . i
In one. of the dry feafons I tookanother ramble,- ;'
armed with my gun, and a hatchet, and guarded
; bymy faithful dog. .When I had pailed the valley. l
i in which flood my bower, I came within View of .
l the fea, and it being aclear day, I plainly difcovered ' '2
land; but whether iiland or continent, l'could not. 9
l . tell; I guelfed thatit could not be lefs than 2-9 '

5

wi " goersoN EUR303,035 312'

ieaguesoft'. I imagined it was-forge ravage coaet.'
and fu'ch indeed it ; proved. In this journey I;
catched 2i young parrot, having knocked it down>>
with a [tick ; brought it home with me, and taught
it to fpeak. ' >> ' _
In this journey my dog feized a young kid,' and
I faved it alive, highly pleafed with the hopes of
having a breed of tame goats ; but as I could not
bring it along withoutdifiiculty, and longed to be
at home, I left it within the inclofure of my bower.-
I cannot exprefs whatfntisfaflion it was now to
come into my ovvn hut,' and lie downin my ham.
mock-bed, which Iconfiantiy ufed there. I relied
- myfelf a week, empioj'ed in the weighty afiinr of'
i, making a cage for my parrot, which [con became
one of my favourites. I now bethought me of my
kid, and halted to my boiver to bring it home, or
to give it food ;_ and the poor creature was fa tame
3'>> by ,hunger, that it followed me home like a dog.
From that time it became one of my domefiicsaleo,
m and would never leave me.
a
l
l
l
{

 

My corn was now 'coming up, and the goats and
hares having talied the {Weetnefs ofthe blade, lay' at
'it night and day; ,as {con as it fprang out of the
ground (0 that it could get no time to (hoot-into a
(talk. To defend it, 'I furrounded it with a hedge,
and, in the mean while, (homing (nine "of the crea-
ture's by day, I (at, my dog to'wgtch it by night,-
vvhich he did ('0 faithfully, that'the' enemies {prion}; ,
the place, and the corn grew and; began, to ripen.
apacc; But" as the begits' :wenenigh1_miaing m:
while my corn was in the blade, fo the birds were
my enemies when it was in the ear; for going along
to fee how my harvelt throve, I faw my little crOp
fur-rounded with fowls- of I know not how many
forts. I let fly among them, and there arofe a litle
cloud of fowl: from the corn itfelf. This touched
me fenfibly, fora fingle grain might be faid, in its
confequence, to be a peck loaf to me. While I
was loading my gun again, I could fee the thieves
upon all the trees round me, waiting for my abfence
and having gone a little way, I turned my head,
and (am them drapping one by one into my com.
I had not patience to {lay till more came, but again
13: off my piece, and having killed three, I uled
them as we do murderers-in England, hanged them
in chains to ferve as a terror to the reft. Not a
fowl afterwards came near my corn, or indeed the
place, as long as my fcarecrows hung there.

When my corn was ripe. I made me a fcythe
with a (word, and cut of none but the ears, which
I rubbed out with my hands. At the end of my
harveli, I gueifed that I had a bufhel of rice, and
two buthels and a half of barley. I kept all this for.
feed, and bore the want of bread with patience, as I
had now a tolerable profpeet of having as much as I
wanted. '

This article of bread was a great difficulty ; I had
neither plough, nor barrow; for the firtt, I made
my {hovel do, and to fupply the place of a barrow,
I went over myfelf, dragging after me the heavy
bough of a tree. And when I came to make bread

5
 

goemson cavsgn. 33;

I' had innumerable wants. I wanted a mill to grind
it, fieves to drer's it, yealt and rah to make it into
bread, and'an oven to bake it. Hon/ever, I had fix
months to contrive all thele l-'aings in. ~

One day after I had drefiEd my dinner, I went a
to put out my fire, and found a piece of one of my
earthen velTels burnt as hard as a (tone, and as red
asa tile; this taught me to burn my pipkins, and 1
(con wanted for no other fort ofearthen veflees; :hey
were ugly enough indeed, being made as childre
make dirt pies; but when I found that I had made
a pot which would hear the fire, I had hardly, pa-
tience to Pray till it was cold, before I (at it on wiih
a piece of kid, in order to make me {ome broth,
which anfwered tolerably well.

I made me a wooden mortar and peiile; and alfo
a fieve out of toms of the leamen's neckcloths, an '
at length made a fort of at even. of a broad ihallow
earthen wild, and a tiled hearth. When I baked,
I drew, the live embers forwards upon this hearth,
till it was very hot; then {weeping them away, I v
fet down my loaves, whelming the earthen pot over
them, which baked my barley bread as well as the

heft oven 1n the world. I now became a complete

paltry cook, and made puddings and cakes; for E
hadno longer need to be {paring of my corn ; for
my next harvcf'c produced twenty bux'heis of bar'ey,
and nearly the fame quantity of rice, which was as
much as I could'confixme in a year.

1V1)! clothes now began to decay; linen I had
bcen without a good while, but the weather was34 Itomns'on causon.

warm. and I had no great need ofclothes, yet I Was
unwilling to be quite naked; befides. the fun
bliltered my flcin, and my head ached if I went
without a hat or a cap; lo I made mylelf two waili-
coats out of tome watch coats, which lulled me a
great while. I made a cap out of a goat's (kin,
with the hair fide outwards, to throw off the ram,
and allo another waillcoat of the lame {kins ; but I
mutt acknowledge that they 'were wretchedly done;
for if I was a bad carpenter, I' was a worle tailor.
I made me too an umbrella, which I could that up
and take abroad with me, and this lecurcd me both
from the heat and the rain.

,Three or four years alter, I made a little boat.
my umbrella ferving both for a malt and an awning.
This I launched for a {ea voyage; but let this be a
warning to all ralh and inconfiderate pilots 5 I put
off, and found a great ledge of rocks lying ahout
two leagues in the (ca, fume above water, and fame
under it, and a great lhoal of {and lying dry for
half a league beyond them, to that I mould be oblis
ged to go a great way out to lea to double the point.
Seeing this, [thought of giving over the enterprife,
and calling anchor, went on (here, when climbin
a deep hill that overlooked the point, I favor the full
extent of it, and that a molt furious current ran to
the call, with a flrong eddy nearer the Iliore, fo
that I had nothing todo but to get out of the cur-
rent, and I thank! prefently be in the eddy. I
therefore refolved to venture.

The wind, however, blowing pretty hard, I lay
here'two days ; and the third day in the morning,
the wind having abated in the night, I found the
[ca calm, and fet fail ; but I no fooner got within
the current, than I found myfelf'n agreat depth of
water, and was carried along with fuch violence,
that all I could do. could not keep the boat on the
edge of it; but I found that it hurried me farther
out from the eddy, which was on the left hand.
There was no wind (lining to help me, and all that
I could do with my paddle fignified nothing. I
now looked back upon my difconfolate folitary
ifland, as the molt pleafant place in the world 5 and
firetched out my hands to it with eager wiflies: 0
happy defert ! laid I, I {hall never fee thee more:
0 miferable creature that I am, whither am Igoing.
Then I reproached myfelf with my unrhankful
temper, and how I had repined at my folitary con.
dition, and now what would I give to be on {hore
there again. I worked hard till my firength was
almcfl exhaufled ; and kept my boat as near as po'f-
fible to that fide of the current on which the eddy
lay; when about noon. I thought I fet a little
breeze of wind in my face, Ahlowing'towards the
more. This revived my {pir'lls, elpecrally when in
about half an hour more it blew a {mall entle gale.
By this time I was got at a frightfgul dillance
from the ifland; and had-the lealt cloud or hazy '
weather interse'ned, 1_ (bank! have been undohe

another way, for I had no compal's on board, and
{huuld never have known how to have lteercd to-
wards the ifland, if I had but once left fight of it 3.
l'ut the weather continuing clear, I fpread my fail,
('1:;nriingau'ay to the north, and got out of the cur-
rent. '1 pm my boat into the'flream of this eddv,
am; zyread my fail to the wind, running cheerfully
hurt: if, nflifled by a ilrong eldy, which carried
11:: Hum a league bazk again, dunflly towards the
iflami, 2rd the breeze l'till continuing, Ireached it
befui e 1139M. I brought my boat clofe to the (here
in a little cove that I found under tome trees, and
being, quite- (pent with the fatigue ofthe voyage, laid
me (ion n to deep. The next morning I made my
way thl"'&l'<<l along the fhore, to fee if there was
no Crt'tk "here I might lav up my boat in {afet ';
when having (oal'te-(l the {here about three miles, I

Vcame to a very good harbour about a mile over,

which ran)" ed till it came to a {mall rivulet,
where I Found a canvenient harbour, and where {he
lay as if {he had been in a little dock made on pur-
pofe lo: her: here I put in, andliaving my boat

, very Life, mm on {hore to fee where films.

I foo>>: 'l'mnd I had but a little pafl'ed the place
where I lad been before, when I travelled on foot
to that {bore : lo taking out of my boat my gun and
my umbrella, I began my march, and reached my
bowu in the evening, where I found every thing
as I left it.

_This dangerous ramble reconciled me to my de-
folate ifland, and refigned me to the dilpenlations
ofProvidence. It would have made a Ptoic {mile
to fee me and my family fit down to dinner; there
was my Majefiy, all alone like a king, attendedAUDlnov ~' \JL'UOVB.

with my fervents. Poll, my favourite, was the
only perfon permitted totalk to me. My dog, who
was grown very old, {3: always at my right hand,
and my two cats, one on the one fide of the table,
and the other on the other.

Ihad at length a great mmd to go to the point of
the ifland, to fee how the fltore lay, and refolved to
travel thither by land. And now, reader, I will
give thee a (hot: {ketch of the figure I made. I had
agreat high {hapelels cap made of goat's fkin, a.
jacket with the fkirts coming down to the middle of
my thighs, and a pair ofopen-kneed breeches of
the fame, with the goat's hair hanging down to the
middle of my leg. Stockings and (bees I had none,
but I had made a pair of fomethings, I (came knew
what to call them, to flap over my legs like {patter-
dalhes; but ofa molt barbarous fhape, and la in-
deed were all the relt of my clothes : I had a broad
belt of goat {kin dried, and in a frog: hung on one
fide 3 RM, and on the other a hatchet. I had
another belt, not {0 broad, faflened over myflmulder;
under my arm hung two pouches for my {hot and
powder; on my back I carried a bafket, on my
{boulder a gun, and over my head a great clumfy
Ugly goat's (kin umbrella. My beard was cut (hurt,
except what grew on my upper lip, whicn I had
trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan WliifliCl'S ;
but as for my figure, I had {0 few to obferve, that
it was of no manner of confequeuce.

In this figure I went my new journey, and wasJ_ u--.-- vv-v_v...-

out five or fix Jays. When I came to the hill. I
was {urprifed to find the {ea all {mooth and quite,
no rippling, no motion,- no current, any more than
in other places ; but in the evening I found a cur-
rent as Before. I ufed frequently to vifit my boat ;
and one day at noon, when I was going to it, I was
exceedingly {urprifed with the print ofa man's foot
on the more, which was plainly to he {can in the
rand. I flood like one thunderfiruck; I liflened,
I looked round me, I could hear nothing, nOr fee
any thing. I went upon arifing ground to look
farther : I walked backwards and forwards on the
there, but I could fee only that one imprefiion: I
went to look at it again, there was plainly a foot,
toes, heel, and every .part very diflinflz How it
came there, I knew not ; but I hurried home to my
fortifications, looking behind me every two or three
flaps, and fancying every tree, bull), and Rump,
to he a man. I had no fleep that night; but my
terror gradually wore off, and I ventured down to
. take mealhre oft'ne foot by my own, but I found it
to be much larger. This filled me again with ri-
diculous whimfies, and when I went home, I began
to double my fortifications, planted my {even mus-
kits on carriages, in the manner of cannon. and
was at the expenk of an infinite deal of labour,
' purely from my apprehenfions of this print of a foot.
And in particular I planteda' vall number of flakes
on the cutiide of my wall, which growing, becameen ._ A a...

r..." a} :1 I'~'_--' ..

ROBINSON causes. 39

a thkk grove, and entirely. concealed the place of...
my retreat, and greatly added to my fecurity.

After I had thus fecured one part of my live Rock,
I went about the whole ifland, and ram-sting more
to the weftern point than I had ever done before, I
was pt'ex'entty convinced that the feeing the print of
a man's foot, was not Inch 3 ttrange thing in the
ifland, as I had imagined; for on my approach--
ing the flmre, I was perfeetly confounded and ama-
zed, nor is'it pothole to exprefs the horror I felt at _
fleeing the (hove {pread weth Ikulls, hands, feet,
and other bones of humm bodies; and particularly
a piace, where, as I t'uppofed, there had been a fire
made, and a circle dug in the earth {or the {avage
wretches to fit down to their inhuman feafl's, on
the bodies of their fellow-creatures. I turned away
my face from the horrid fpeetacle ; my fiomaah grew
fick; I was juit on the point of fainting, amt left
the place as {can as poffible.

W'hen I got a flute out of that part of the ifland,
I looked up with the utmoftatfcetion of foul, and ~
with tears in my eyes gave God thanks for placing
me in a part ot'the wortd where I was difiinguiihed
from fuch wretched creatures as thefe. In this

' frame of thankfu'tnefs I went home to mycaflle,

and began to be much eaficr as to my {afety than I
had been for fome time before; for 'lohferved, that
thefe wretches never came to the iflmd in {are}: of
what they could get. ' ,1 '
One day when I was cagting tome brufllewoot}, I
2. V"W

4-0 ROBINSON CRUSOE.

found behind the bufh I was cutting, a hollow
place, which I was curious to look into, and get-
ting with difficulty into its mouth, I found it was
{uflicient for me to ("and upright in; but looking
farther into the place, which was perleelly dark, I
{aw two broad mining eyes, which twinkled like
two (tars, from a dim light reflected from the mouth
of the cave. At this I went out falter than I got
in; hu.r packing up my courage, I took a great

'fire'orand, and ruflied in a ain with it flamin in
g g

my hand, when I was almolt as much {lighted as
before; forI heard a loud figh, followed by a bro-
ken noile. and then a figh again. I fiepped back,
{truck with luch furprife that it put me in a cold

.fweat. However I recovered refolution enough to

flep forward again, and lifting up my light, I low
lying on the ground a molt monltruous lie-goat
gafping f-sr life.

I now recovered from my fright, and began to
look round me. This cave was about twelve feet

over, and I obF rvel that on the farther lide was an '

opening, intowhich I crept on my hands and knees,
but as I had no other light, I deferred goinglarther
than the entrance till the next day, when I brought
candles of my own m'tking, and crept about ten.
yards, after which the roof role to about twenty feet
high, and the wall rcflefted an hundred thoufand
lights from my two candles. It was a delightful
grvotto, the floor dry and level, no clamp to be felt
nor any noxious creature to be feen. To this<<.t
.95

' . ROBINSON CRUSOE._ '

place. I brOUgl-it my ponder and all my Spare a:
and now kept at my cattle only five guns, 'nh. "
flood ready mounted. ' ' if
lhad now being twenty-two years in the ifland,
and was {0 naturalized to the place. that had "I been
[came as to the favages, I then fancied I could have
been contented to have fiaid in it, till, like the goat,
I had died of mere old age.

One morning, very early, I faw five canoes
of ravages on there. I clambered up my hill,
and by the help of my perfpefiive, difcovered
nogefs than thirty advancing round a fire. I
{00 after {aw two milerable wretches dragged
out of the boats, one of them was immediately
knocked down, but the other {farting from them,
ran with incredible {wiftnefs alorig the lands
towards me. I confels I was horribly frightened
when I face him come my way, imagining he would
be ptarfued by the whole'body 5 however, I kept my
Ration, and quite lofl; my apprehenfions, when I
found but three followed him. He greatly out- ran
them, and was in a lair way ofefcavpiug them all,
when, coming to the creek. he .pimylgedsinto it,
landed, and ran on as fwift as before. - Ol'the three
that fol-lowed, but two entered the water, the other
returning back. I 11:111in fetched my guns from tl-e
loot ofthe ladder, and making a {hurt cue: down the
hill, 1 clapped myfelf in the way heme'en 13%: pur-
{uers and the purified, hallooing'aland to Him that
fled, and beckoning With my hand for him to come
back 5 then milling at once upon the foremmt,

, . D 3 V+2

 

n-"

ROBINSON cavsoz... , . mas-N."-- ....--.wm._. ~~ - 4 --

 

a".

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

knocked him down with the flock of my p'ace e-w-
The other flopped as if frightened;_but when'I
advanced towards him, I perceived he was fitting
his bow to {hoot me, upon which I {hot him dead
direetly. The poor lavage who had fled, was {'0
terrified at the noile of my piece, though he faw his
enemies fallen, that he flood flock llill ; but Iceme'd
rather inclined to fly than to come towards me.
However, when I gave him figns of encourage-
inent, he came nearer, kneeling down every ten or
eleven Reps 5 on his coming clofe to me, he kneeled
down again, laid his head upon the ground, and
placed my loot upon it. But there was more work
to do, the man I knocked down came to himfelf,
and my favage began to be afraid. I then prefent-
ed my piece at the man, when the poor fellow,
whofe lifeI had faved, made a motion for my (word,
which I gave him, and he flruckofl'his enemy's head
atone blow, and in a quarter of an hour buried
both the bodies in the rand. I then took him away
to my cave at the farther part of the ifhnd. Here
I gave him bread, and a bunch of railins to eat,
and a draught of water, which .he wanted much;
and having refreflled him, I made figns for him to
lie down on fome rice flraw, which the poor crea-
ture did (con and went to fleep.

He was a well-made handlome fellow, of about
twenty-fix years of age, of an olive-coloured coma
plexion, with long black hair. He had a {mall
not": that was not flat, and fine teeth as white as
ivory. After he had flept about half an hotzr, he
Waked again, and came running to me in the in.
ciofure,jm"t by where I had been milking my goats.
Then falling down again, he laid his head flat upon
the ground, and fet my other foot upon it, as be-
fore, and after this made all poliible figns ofthank-
fulnefs, fubjse'tion, and fubmiflion. I began to
{peak to him, and to teach him to {peak to me;
and (hit, I made him know that his name lhould
be Friday, which was the day wherein I faved his
life. I taught him to {ay Matter, and let him know
that was to be my name. The next day I gave
him clothes, at which he {eemed pleated. As we
went by the place where he had buried the two
men, he pointed exafily to the place, making figns
that he would dig them up again and eat them; at
this I appeared very angry, and beckoned with my
hand to him to come away, which he did immedi-
ately. , '
Having now more courage, and confequently
more curiofity, I took my man Friday with me,
giving him the (word, with the bow and arrows at
his back, which I found he could me very dexter-
Otifly. I alfo gave him one gun to carry, and tak.
ing two'zfor myfelf, away we marched to the place
where his enemies had been : When I came there,
my; 'blood ran cold in my veins: the place was
covered with human bones, and the ground dyed
with blood : great pieces of flet'h were left here and
there, half eaten, mangled, and lcorched. 1 law
' 5
three fkttlls, fivehands, and the bones of three or
fourulcgs and feet; and Friday, by his figns, made
me underftand, that they brought over four prifan-
ers to feaft upon, that three of them were eaten
up; that he, pointing to himfelf, was the fourth,
and that they had been conquered, and taken pri-
foners in war.

I caufed Friday to colltet the remains ofthis hor-
rid carnage, then to light a fine, and burn them to
allies. When this was done we returned to our
calile. The next day I made a little tent on the
outfide of my fortification, and at night took in my
ladder, that he might not be able to get at me while
Iflept. But there was no need of this precaution,
for never man had a more faithful fervant 5 he had
the fame affec'tion for me as a child has for a father,
and I dare fay, he would have {acrificed his life to
fave mine. I was greatly delighted with him, and
made it my bufinefs to teach him every thing proper
to render him ul'eful; efpecially to fpeak, and un--
derfland me when I tpoke; and he was the aptefl:
{cholar that ever was ; then he was {0 merry, ['0 di-
ligent, and f0 pleated when he could underliand
me, or make me underfiand him, that he" was a
very agreeable companion.

After I had been two or three dayslretnrned to
my caftle, I thought that in order to bring him off
from the relith of human fleih, I ought to let him
tafie other flelli ; (0 I took him out with me one
morning to the woods, in order to take a kid from
my herd; but as I was going, I {aw a {he-goat
lying down in the Grade, and two yOung kids
(rating by her; when making figns to Friday not
to I'cir, I {hot one of the kids.

Having brought home the kid, I cut it out, and
boiling tome of the flefh, made very good broth;
,afver I had eat fome, I gave it to Friday, who
feemed glad of it, and liked it very well. Having
thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I tea-{ted
him the next day with a piece ofroaf'ted kid, hang-
ing s: before the fire with a firing. This Friday ad-
mired very much, and made me at 139: underttand
that he would never eat man's flelh any more,
which I was very glad to hear.

The mid day I fet him to beat out fome corn,
and (if: it; and (can after I let him fee me make
my bread, and bake, and in alittlcfitime Friday was
able to do all'the work for me, as well as I could do
it myfelf. I now found it neceffary to few 3
larger quantity of corn than I ufed to do, and
therefore, with Friday's afliltance, enlarged my
fence. In fhort, this was the plrafantefi year I
had led in the>> i-fland; for as my man began to '
talk pretty well,'i had fame ufe for my tongue
again, and befides the pleafure of talking to him
again, I had a fingular {azisfaetion in his honefty
and afi'celion, which appeared more and more every
day, fo that I began really to love him.

I did not fail to infiruet this poor creature, as
well as I was able, in the principles of religion,
and he lii'tened to me with great attention. One--' L\UD&L'JUJV yuuavn.

day, when I had been talking to him on this fab.-
jeet, he told me, that if our God could hear us
" beyond the fun, he was a greater God than
their Benamukee, who lived but ahttle off, and
yet could'not hear till the Oowokakee, or priefis,
wentup the great mountains, where he dwelt, to
{peak to him..

I defcribed to him the: countries of Europe ; and
particularly England ; how we lived 5 how we
worfliipped God; and how we traded in {hips to
all the parts of the world : I gave him an account
of the wreck I had been on board of, and thawed
him the ruins of our boat, which we loft when we
efcaped, and which I could not (lit with all my
f'crength then, but was now almoft fallen to pieces.
Upon feeing this boat, Friday flood mufing a great.
while, and {aid nothing; when afking what he was"
thinkingvof, he at lalt faid. Mee fee like boat come
to place at my. nation. yVe fave the white man:
from drown. Itthen afked him, if there were any
white mans, as he called them, in the boat P Yes,
he fetid, the boat full of white mans. I afked him
how many? He told me, upon his fingers, {even-
teeiL I then'afked him", what became of them? and
he replied, They live, theydWell atmy natiOn. I pre-
fently imagined, that thele might be the men belonga
ing to the [hip that wascafl awayin light ofmy ifland,
who after the thip had (truck on .a rock, had {aved
themfelves in their boat. I then inquired what
was become of them, and he aflured me that his,countrymen gave them vieluals. I alked him why
they did not kill them and eat them ; He (aid, No
they make brother with him. They no eat mans
but when make the war fight: that is, they never
eat any men but fuch as are taken in battle.

A confidcrable time after this, being on the top of
the hzll at the ealldide of the ifland, from whence I
had dilcovered land, Friday leaked very earnellly
towards it, and, in a kind of lurprife, fell ajump-
ing and dancing, crying, 0 joy! 0 glad! there
fee my counny, there my nation ! I obferved that
his eyes fparkled, and his countenance difcovered
an extraordinary lenfe of pleafure. This ob-
Iervation gave me {ome unealinefs, and I could not
help apprehending, that if he (hould get back to his
own nation, he would not only forget all his reli-
gion, but his obligations to me, and would perhaps
come back with an hundred or two of his country-
men, and make a feall upon me, at which he might
be as merry as he ufed to be with thofe of his ene-
mies when they were taken in war. But I wrong-
ed the poor honefl: creature very much. However,
while my jealoufy lat'ced, I every day endeavoured
to penetrate into his thoughts.

One day, Walking up the fame hill, I called to
him, and laid, Friday, do not you wilh yourfelf
in your own country? Yes, {aid he, I be much a
glad to be at my own nation" What Would you
do there? faid I : Would you eat man's flelh again
and be a favageas you were befoe? He looked"MM

'31.... mm," _ .

Rouxuaun v" .....

' V ' 7
full of concern, and, {baking his head, raid, N0
no, Friday tell them to live good ; tell them to pray
Cod ; tell them to eat com-bread, cattle-flelh.
milk, no eat man's flelh again. Why then, {aid 1
tohim, they will kill you ; He looked graire, and
raid, No, they no kill me, they willing love learn.
He meant they would be willing to learn. I then
told him, that I would makeacanue'lbr him; and
he replied, that he would go, if I would go with
him. I go! {aid I, why they will eat mil" go
there. No. no, fays he, me make them no'eat'you,
the make they much love you. He then told me
how'kind they were to the fevemeen white, or,
bearded men, as he called them, who came 0n
'fhore in difirefs. V
From this'time I had a mind to venture over,
and fee if I could pofiibly join thefe bearded men,
'not fidubting but that we might find tome means of
'efcaping from thence. I therefore went with Fri.
Bay to the other file of the it'land. and [howed him
my boat,, when he getting into it, managed it with
the ,greatell dexterity ; but he thinking it too little,
I afterwards {howed him the firfl boat I had {hale ;
hutLas it had lain two or three and twenty years,
the'fun had l'plit it. I therefore told him, that we
would go and mike one as big as that, and he
{hoold go in it. At this he looked unealy, and I
asked what Was the matter with him To which he
returned, Why you angry, mad with Friday, what
me done 2 I told him I was not angry with him."UBINSUN ULKUDUSLn

N0 angry! no angry ! {211's he, why then (end Frie
flay-1:011: to 11'. v nation. > 'v'Vhy, (-115! I, Frit'J .ay. did
'-':11 (,1 3;) ch wifhn. dyou were there: Yes, yes,
Ihys! re, 311}; be both thus. 1.0 MG: Friday there ,
111-1512113511 "1.6m [go tix 1'8, Fri lay 'Iaid I. Viimi:
{11.11: Id 0 :1. etc? You do 91:2.>>r deal much good,
1335 i1:.}::1:-i:ly,y-.1'1 tuch w1.-J mans be 00m},
11>ific",z11:1:m?.'5 5 on re}' 111cm kr ow God, pray
Gad, sr. ' '15: : .m-v 311:. 'A-: s'. F11d.1y,fa1dl thou

knowczf 11;) 1'.' at t! (11 Hays-13, lam but an ignm an:
1113111113C'11. Ya, yas, 13.35 be, 3.1111 162.1! cc 11: c
g:;cr.'1,)ou feat-a:- hem good. No, :10, Friday,

L. d I vs>>: '1'1. gr. '11. 1:110:11 me, and leave me here;
- .1)1-. as I did mime. I}: Ioc-kedcon-
11112.: ,;':1-.1PS111m'11:;" [0 .- harchez, took it up hafifly,
2.1-1" gz'.' (11117:. '5'1'.. ('mui'.' I do with 11115? Card I.
Your 142 5': {71.1} aj', fags be. $11 1 muff I 1:111
3-911. 1271'? 1.21 .1 I zgzm. H" return: very qu1ck;
Y3. rycu '1'2"f}11d:SS1 awayfo. P Take k112F11day
1111 (and I. 112.521.1211. 51.11:: 6 {poke wifin Inch
aim-fir .13! . 1.11:1? 1'35 111.: teais ilandin ins eyes
Uyg-r. 131': w'rr- '11-: 21: I found b} a}: his d1: cough}
he hr-'e a i'ute- -.-.'?. 211411011 101 me, and U: at nothmg
flu 111d :'zzxt. htm 1': ;m me; {u Hound I! at Ins de-
h e: 1-: 16 mm: 1 21:; cuun 1131135 ~(111>>1'1d: d un 1115a?-
icet: C11 131%.: 1:2 1:326, 2111 i135 hopes of :11'1179; them
good. H we>>: 1 as I had :1 {heng i-T'illl-"nIOn-ii)
111 1ke my dear: , We made. a 1arge canoe ., and havmg
. compietcd '11, 1&1 up a m: it And fail.

Iwas 110w entered 1nto1'e '- 7th year 0. my can-

 

.,...R'osixsow CRUSOE. 51

firity,' xiiid intended [con 'to let fail, when one
morningl bid Friday go to the {en {here to fee if he
Could find a turtle; but he had not l=mg been gone,
when he Came running back like one that fell flat
the ground on wliieli he tied, and before I had r'u'ne
ta (peak, cried, O mafier! 0 (mm: ! (3' ferrowl
0 bad 2 \'Vliat's the matter, Friday ? raid 1'. 0 5011--
der there, laid he, one, two, three! canoe! one,
two, three ! W'ell Friday, {aid I, do not be 'righted :
He wesiliowev'e'r terribly leeredgimagining tlia: may
were Come to 103k for himhggfl would cut him to
pieces and eat him. I alked"'h,i'in; whether if I re-
'f'olved to defend him, he would lland by me, and do
as I hid him. He laid, Me die, when you bid me
"die, mafier. I fetched himh'a good dram ofrum, and
'made him take two fowliiig-pieces, and ldad them
with large {Wan (hot. I then loaded four mulket's
with five {mall bullets each,and each of my'two piltols
with a brace of bullets. I hung my great {word
naked by my fide, and gave Friday his hatchet.

I (lien'mok my perfpeefive glafs, and went up
the lide ofthe hill, when I {aw twenty-one lavagee,
three p'rifoners, and three canoes. They were

. landed at a {mall dilla'nce,' where the {hove was low,
and where a thick wood came almofi clofe dbwg (o
the {eat and I was {0 filled with indignation, theft
'was i'efolved to kill them all. I gave Friclay'bne
pillol to {tick in his girdle, and three guns upon his
flioalder; and took one pifiol'and the other three

. PS5513 mylelf; and having put a line" bottle qf rum

'.in my pocket, I marched out, ordering Eriday ta

' - E 2 '
keep clofe behind me, to be filent, and to do as I
hid him. I then fetched a compai's of near a mile
to come near them, and in this march I recolleeled,
that thougl. they were going to offend the Almighty
by their bloody feafl, I had no right to makemyfelf
the infirument of his vengeance. This thought ale
layed my heat, and I retolved to be no more than a
fpee'tazor of their inhuman banquet.
With this refolution I entered the wood, and
with the utmofi precaution matched with Friday
clofe at my heels, till we came near them, when
mowing Friday a great tree, I bid him {oftly
bring me word what they were doing; he did {0,
and coming back immediately, told me, that they
were all about the fire eating the fiefh ofone of their
. rifoners, and thata bearded man lay bound upon
the {3nd, whom he faid they would kill next. This
news fired my foul, and filled me with horror, and
'going to the tree, I plainly {3997' a white man cloath-
ed, lying .on the beach with his hands and feet tied
with flags. I obferved another tree, and gt little
thicket beyond it', much nearer to them, to which
_I might go undifcov'ered, I therefore took; circqit
=10 it, and came to a little tiling ground where ,I had
a full view of them, at the dillance of about eighty
ards. '
y I had not a moment to lore, {or nineteen of the
horrid wretches {at huddled together on the ground,
and the other two were ltooped down to untie the
.Chrillian in order tomurder him. Now, {aid I,
Friday, do as you (as mode. I laid the mufltets

' "'VVu
down, and took up one, and then we both fired.
Three were killed, and the wounded. The ravages
were in a dreadful conitfernation, and all who were
unhurt jumped up immediately on'their feet, but.
knew not which way to run. riday kept his eyes
clofe upon me. I threw down my pieceland took
up another, and we infiantly let fly at them again ;
_u hen being loaded with {wan (hot, wefound only
{two drop 5 but to many'were wounded, that they
{tart about ltreaming and bleeding. We then rm'hed
out ofthe thicket, with each a muflcet in out
Jmnda, I cut the flags that bound the poor viflin),
and gave him a {word and pifiol, which he had no
{oonec- got than, he flew upon his murderers.
Ta'lcanwhile Friday firing, had killed two, and
Wounded a third, and afterwards fell ugon them
w. ith his hatchet. In (hart, {Eventeen of them were
killed, and {our of them getting into a canoe, got
out to ('ea._ . , ; 4 '- .
I relelved to; purfue them, left they {hould return
with a greater-force to deftroy us, and ran to a
,canoe,;c:al-ling to Friday, to follow me 5 but I was
no fooner in thecanoe, then I found another poor
creature lie there alive, bound hand and foot. I
immediatedy'cut the milled flags, and feeing than he
had been bound {0 tjghtfthat-he was almofi dead;,'I'
gave hint a'dt'am, and ordered Fridayto tell him of
his deliveranCe ; but when the poor fellow looked

in his. face,_3no' heardhim (peak, it, would have
movgd any one to tears, to ave feen'how he kifl'ed,
E 3we,

54 nonmsox causoe.

embraced, hugged him, cried, danced, fang, and
.then cried again. It was fome time before [could
make him tell me what was the matter 5 but when
he came a little tohimfelf, he {aid he was his own
,dear father. He then far down by him, held the
,old man's head clofe to his bofqm, and chafed his
arms and ancles, which were {Eff with binding.
After {ome time I called him,land he came jump-
ing, laughing, and pleafed to the higheft extreme.
:1 gave him a cake of bread for his father, with a
handful of raifins and a dramfor himfelf; but he
carried all to his father, and prefently ran away f9
'iwiltly, that he was in an inttant out of fight,_and
though I called after him,,he never looked back 5
but in a quarter of an hour I {aw him return with fat
jug of freth water, which he gave the old man, who
was ready to die with thirlt. This water was a re-
afrcfhmentfto us all, efpecially to the Spaniard, who,
notwithfianding his having exerted 'bimfelf in the
fight, was npw unable to Rand, his legs were fo
inelled. At my defire, Friday Carried him into the
.canoe, and placed him by his'father 5 they launched
th', paddled them along the fliore, till he hroyght
them nearvmy caflle, while I walked thither. '
As {oon as -I had fecured my two priioners, and

gave them {halter in a kind of hut I {at up for
331mm; I- orderedFriday to take a yearling goat out
'of my flock, and having killed it, I boiled'a'partol it,
and made'fome broth ; 'and in a few days after they
were perfeelly recoVered.' My ifiand was hog55 noxmson pRUSOE.

peopled, and'I thought mj'fekf a king rich - in f 11')--
jeeis; but what was extraordinary; they all owed
their fives to me, and were ready to lay them down
in my fervice. The Spaniard, who had exprefI-ztd the
utmofi gratitude for his deliverance, gave me an
account of the fhipwreck, and she fituation' of his
companions ; and it was refolved that Friday's
father, and the Spaniard (hould go_ in the boat to
fetchithem over ; but the. neceliity of increafiug--
our flock of corn before this was done, made us cle-
lay it for fix months; we all joined in pianting and
fencing, and our next harveit being go: in, they {ct
out in one of the canoes.

About eight days after they were gone, Friday
awaked me one morning, by agingw out, I'vilafler,
they are come. I drefl'ed and hath-d up to the {op
ofthe hill, and plainly difcovercd an Engliih (hip -
lying at anchor. At fix-ft I. M: in my mind a
tumuli of joy, which was-{con turned into fear;
for though I knew them to be my countrymzn, I
had feefon to dread them as enemies} Infiead of
going "towards them as I {honld have done, had it
not been for thefe aiar'ming doubts, I hayed Where
I was, and was foon convinced, that to my wipi.
cions' I owed my fafety. V ' . .

They ran-the boa: a~fliore on the beach, and
eleven-menhnded, three of them umnnedgwho,
by EUR136" gefinres,:-I thenghtito heflgjx;iSSgnefigus;; and
one-of than I could "peic'cii'e u'fing the mcf't pa!-
fionate geflures of entreaty, afilze'zian, and dez'paxr,gosmsox pkvsoz. >> 57

whilc the two others. though their grief, fcemed
lefs extravagam, appeared pleading foif {n.iercy'.' "fit
this fig"! 1 'was. fiifi'ened with lzorsor, ' zfim'd Frid'e'
caned out to mg: in his bpokgn Englifh, Q ifiafieeSS
you (c; Englilhmans eat prifonqrs git well as favage
mans. No; no. {aid I, Friday, I am afraid my
'will murder them ; but you may bg' {urg'th'e'y wbg't
eat them. At this inflap; 1 {av} a villeii} liflfqgljis
arm to kill ,on'e 9f ghe prifqncr's; bgt ht; did not
firik? him. I wifbed ngw for the Sganiagd apgi
Friday's father, who was gqne git!) him. 'Whilp
they had beset! parleying' fith thseiy prifsiners; the
wager had :bbsed may 'fm'm' the boat, 1;?ng hsr
iaground"; 'and I heard on? 9f than: fay so andpher
who was gsfing to it. Why 1;: he: ' .alqne; 13,515.. it
will beaflbglt pgxt flip} (hi; confirqu'tg me that
they five. in)! countrywn- 1 kn??? now to my
grpat ung'afinefs, that they wouid have ten hqbrs to

ramblg abqqt this 'ifland : I therefope djefig'ngd to
'.attack them as {008 as if wasdafle; bufifsw 1:911er
pftcr, as I {aw none; of they) rgmblibg'about, I
imagined theiy .werc afleeps all bur the three dif-
' miffed men who {at undgr" 1h: figeltpr'of a mac, him
1 31%;]: way from me, Td gingm I 'went with my
man infigy, and laid in Spapim, What 'a'rg ydu,
Gentlepjep'? T})SS)' {tart-led gt the n'oif'e; bug: when
they Iew my unco'mh figure, they prepaxcd to fly.
lthen {aid in Englifih, ,Gem'lpmep, pfrhaps yd}:
may have a-friend hear you, whq'm yQu'Htt}: expefi.
He'mpfi be {cut 'di'realy frqm I'i'ca'vgn, {aid one ofW" -SS'n-:'"Mwn--l -,-,..r,v-- w-rvwa. A w A A

"58 110111115611 cnvsoe. _
them, bowing , for our condition is pail the help (if
man. All help is from Heaven, Sir. I replied; I

fee you are in diltrefs, and am willing to' lerve you.
'1 he 11001 man. with a gufh of tears, anfwered, Am

_I talking to a man or an angel? A man, an Eng~
,li lhman, I retutned, read) to aim} and (ave V.ou -

Tell me your cafe. I "as commandet of that (hip,

'he replied; my men have mutinied againlt me, and"
if they'do not murder me, they intend to leave me,
,and there two gentlemen, a-{hore in this defolate

place. They the but in that thicket, and I trem-

_ble tor fearthey have feen you, and heard us (peak:
if they have they will murder us all. I aflced what
.arms they had got, and finding they had but one

piece of fire arms' among them, I tol.1 him, it was

" eafy to kill them all while they were afleep, or take

them prifoners. He replied, that time were two
incon igible villains among them, to whom it would
not be late to {how mercy. I then game each of the
men a mufket, and ad atfedthem to fire among them

at once, but he was cauti 0113 of {hedding biood.
V. In the midfi of our dile0urfe (on: e of them waked,

and two walked from the left. 'I he Captain [3111
he would Uladly {1'are them.. Now, {aid I, it the

ircl't etcape you, it is vo'ur fault. Animated with

this, they went to tl 1e {K-lOK'S, and the Captain te-
l'erving' his own piece,t the two men that one of the

' villains dead, and wounded the other. He who was
' wounded cried out for help, when the C.p.ain
' knocked him down with the flock of his mufket.11031115011; cnusog'. "7 "59
There were three more 111 the company, one _of
Whom was wounded. They begged {01; mercy
("d I coming up, gaye orders for {paring their
fines, or. condition 01 their being bound hand 'and
foot w11i1e they flayed 111 the 11111111.

'11: 1111c we were bmding them, Fuday and Qhe
Captain '5 m'ate fecured tl1eboat,a11d brought away
the 911's and 1311.T11e noife of our guns broaight
three more 11 1':- 'ggling men to 113, and they {111111111-

ing to be b0131h'1,01]1 v flay was eompile'te. We
then confim; d together how to 1ecover _t'11e 1111p,
the1e bemg 11111 twee tyLfix men on bo'a1d.\'-VSSe
11110. Red 2 great 11011; in the bottom 'of 111 e boat,
that they "might not car1y_ j1er away; and 1111112.-
we Were (.101 11g it, We heard the {11p firE _a' gun, 'as a
{1ng for the boat to come on board. A little
bites, 8115!th boat. with ten 'm'efn a1'1d firea1 111.1313"-
poached the {1117"1e" ' 'We had 21' {1'31} v're'w of them
as they came ', the Captam 101d ni'e' {1:11e'e' of them
were peaceable fellbws, - but 1111:1511 were 11613181 11'
wretches The 111011 111pr cious of our p'riibners
were fent bound 11110 the caVe. T~W'o we kept with
us 11111 pinioned, and the mate and a {2111'01' we ven~
tured to take into' 0111 (truce. \Vewerenow {even
men we" armed and (1011:1115 6111112117115 2 match for .
them. As 10011 95' 1111131111 111:: place where the
other heat 121}, they 1311111161 .Eq'e t 011 11:11: beach,
and 1111 came amcxe, T111331 11al1ooed 21151111 fo';
__the1r compa'nions , fee-med 111 the 1111111111 3110111111-
ment at the; de flroetion' oftb'e boat, and ithedi.
'atew retu;'1__1'ec1 11111117011611 from 11113. more , bu't.

1oo ioixN'seN causes.

quickly ~coming back again, (even of them landed.
Jeaeing three in the boat, {who kept at a diflance
frp'in the fibre. We now 101': "all hop'os of recover-
i'n'gthe "{hip; {at we imagined that if we Teized the '
{even men, the rett iivouid return to the (hip, and
the Would fet fail; however, we had no remedy but
phi-ante. , y

_ 'Tho'fe who came aihore kept clofe together.
marching tip the little hill, under Which my habita-
tio'n my. "men at the top, they {booted and'hal-
Joced; but didnot care 'toyenture far from the
fibre, and quickly returned back again. I then
:orde'red Friday and the mate to go to a rifing
groand, and Thomas -.loud as they could. They
'hear'd the 'nbife, and ran tb'Wards it, till they came
"('6 the deck; they then eaned to the boat :6 {et'them
iov'ef. "This 'wfaeiyhat I expeeted. They having
.cr'ofl'ed the creek, left him men in the boat, taking
the 'other with 'tb'ein.' We left Friday and the mate
to 'pnrfue 'theig'bufinefs in decaying the'feildim up
into the fibod's, by {houting and hafiooing, while
We'ftirp'r'ifed the two'tnen they had ieft, one lying
iinfl't'he boat, and the bth'e'r 'afleep oh the more. The
hit fla'rt'ih'g'u p at our approach,theCaptain knocked

' "him down, an'd eailed to him in the boat to yield,0tf

hew'as 'a dead in'a'n. This he didtan'd heartily
joined us: lhev'beihg fine (Sf t'hofe who had been
forced through fear to jointhe mutiny.

"Several heurs after, Friday came back, and told
me'th'et they had heartily ti'ri-jti t'h'e'men, by halluci-
' iii? :6) th'e't'n from different pfa'ces 5 'fcr'he' heard them"complain, they Were {o tired they could notwalk.
At length we faw them all go to the boat, which
Was aground in the creek, the tide having, ebbed
Out. When they law the two men gone, the)? ,.
called to one another in the molt lamentable mane
ner, faying they were got into an enchanted ifland;
that it was either inhabited, and they {hould be
mUrdered, or that there were devils in it, and they'
{hould be devoured. They hallooed and called
their comrades by their names, and then ran about _
(winging their hands like men in defpair; it grew
dark: I drew my ambufcade nearer, and ordered
Friday and the Captain to creep upon their hands
and' feet, that they might not be teen, and to get
very near them' before they fired; but one of the
principal ringleaders of the mutiny, with two ofthe
crew came towards us, and the Captain was {0
eager at having him in his power, that he let fly, and
killed him'and another man on the fpo't; the third
ran for it. I immediately advanced with my whole
army, when the man we took out of the boat, by
my order,' called to one of them by his name, Tom
Smith. The fellow anifwered, Who is that, Robina
{on ? The other returned, Ay, ay, for God's fake,
Tom, throw down your arms and yield, or you are
all dead men this moment. Yield ! who mull we
yield to? fays Smith : Where are they ? Here they
are, fays he, here's our Captain with fifty men with
him 5 the boatfwain and Will Fry are killed, and I
am a prifoner. W'ill they give us quarter, fays
Smith. T he'Captaim then called out, You know

i ' F. my voice, if you lay down your arms and fubmit,
you {hall all have your lives, but \Vill Atkins.
Upon which Vv'ill Atkins called out, For God's fake,
Captain, (pare my life, the refi are as bad as I:
which was not true, for he had ufed the Captain
very ill at the beginning of the mutiny. The
' Captain told him he mull lay down his arms at
dikretion, and trufi tothe Governor's mercy. Upon
which they all fubmitted. and the Captain expoltu-
lated viith them, on their villanous treatment of
him He told them, that the Governor was an
Englifltman, who intended to {end them all to Eng.
land, except Atkins, vi'ho was to he hanged the
next morning, and bid him prepare for death.

It was now determined to t'e'ize the fhip, and the
Captain chofefive of thole he liked belt to allilt him,
while I kept the tell as hoftages for their fidelity.
We then {topped thehreach in the broken boat, and
having manned them both, the Captain went to the
lhip about midnight, got on board, and being faith-
fully (secluded, they knocked down the fecond mate
and carpenter, with the butt-end of their mufketS,
and loan overcame the rail ; killed the rebel
Captain, and fired feveral guns to give me a fignal
of their t'uccefs, which filled me with joy : {can alter
the Captain called to me from the top of the hill, and

I going to him, he embraced me in an ecltafy,
, telling me the t'hip and cargo were all mine.

When I {aw my deliverance thus put in my
lmnls, I was ready to fink with fisrprife; I was
not able to anfwcr one word; but a flood of tears

.i
brought me to myfelf, and a little IWhile after I re-
covered my fpeech. I then, in my turn, embraced '
him as my deliverer, and we rejoiced tOgether.
VVhen we had talkeda while, he called aloud tothe
boat, and bid them bring the governor's prefent
afltore, and indeed it was a prefent fit for a go-
vernor. Among other things, there was a very
good fuit of clothes. with {hirts and neckcloths.
1 drefl'ed myfelf in themfiad then appeared as go-
vernor before the prifonerE. I aflced them what
they had to fay in their Own defence, telling them I
had powerto execute them there. They pleaded
the Captain's promife of mercy, and I told them,
that I intended to go pafl'enger in the (hip, with all
my men ; but that they, if they went, could

_ only go as prifoners; obferving, however,that they
might, if they chol'e it, {lay in the ifland. This
they gladly accepted, and [prepared to go on bond
the next day, the Captain returning to the {hip to
get every thing ready for my reception.

\Vhen he was gone, I talked to the men, told
them my flory, and how I managed all my houl'ehold
bulinefs; left a letter for,thc fifteen Spaniards,and
made them promife to treat them in common with .
themfelves. The next day I went on board the
(hip, taking Friday with me, hut-hid not. weigh
that night; and before we put cfi','itwo of the men
fwam to us from more, defiring to'be taken in, or
they {hould be murdered; to which we agreed, and
they afterwards became very honell: fellows. 011

F 2 . ..; 2..., ,...' .1 ....

64. aomnson causoz.

the other hand, two me'n in the (hip, fearing to he
called to account in England, took the pinnace.
and joined their old comrades on there. Thus I
left the ifland, after being on it twenty-eight years. .
On my arrival in England, I was as perfeet a f
firanger as if I had never been known there; my -
faithful Reward, the widow, was become poor ; my
{titer and mother were dead ; but I had two filters,
and two of the children of one of my brothers
were living. The merchant concerned in the {hip
I had faved, having heard the Captain's {tor-y, in--
vited me to an entertainment, and made me a pre-.
{ent of near zool. I then went to Lifbon, to fee '
after my cited}: in the Brazils, and found the ge- l
nzrous Captain, who had been fo much my friend, ',

 

 

itill alive, and he put me in a way of recovering
the prod uce of my plantation. And a few months
after, there arrived [hips in the Tagus, with eifeels
for my ufe, to the amount of goool. befides wool. .
a year, which I expceted to receive annually from 1
my plantation.
Having converted my money into bills of ex-
change, I refolved to travel to England by land, i
over the Pyrenean mountains. Poor Friday was
terribly frightened when he {aw mountains covered
with (now, and felt cold weather. As we were
travelling, our guide was afl'mlted by two wolves ;
when inl'tead of drawing his piitol, he called out to
us, and I bid Friday haiten to fee what was the
matter; when, like a bold fellow, he rode up and
{hot the wolf" which had fa-ftene'd on the man, and
the other, which had feized on the harle, fled 4--
At the report of his pif'tol we haltened up, and {aw
in what manner he had delivered our guide; when, '
on a fudden, a monfirous bear rufhed out of a
wood, which {urprifed us all, except Friday, who
with joy and courage in his countenance, cried.
O! O! O! matter! you give me leave, me thakete
hand with him, me make you good laugh : You
fool, {aid I,'he'll eat you up. Eateejme up: we
make you good laugh. The bear walked foftly on,
till Friday coming pretty near, calls as if the bear
could underltand him. H'ark ye, hark ye, me
{peakee with you, and then flung a great [tone at
his head. As loan as he felt the lione, he came
after him, with moul'trous long flrides. Away ran
Friday towards us, asiflhe wanted help. Is this your
making us laugh, you dog, {aid I, in a pallion,
mount your horfe that we may {hoot the creature.
No (hoot, no (hoot, {aid he, you get much laugh,
and laying down his gun. he climbed up atree.
The bear {topped to line" at the gun, and Climbed
A the tree after him, When Friday getting toth'efmall
end of a large branch, and the bear about thefmid; _
the of it, he fell a making the bough, Crying, Now
you fee me teachee the bear danee. The creature
turned to fee which way h {hould go back, and
Friday lays,.What you cox .: no farther, you no
come farther, me go, You no come to me, me
come to you. Then bending the bough, down he

1 '..,
flipped offit, and taking up -his gun flood Hill
The bear finding his enemy gone; came with the (t
hinder-end fo'remol't down the tree ; when Friday, s'
clapping the muzzle of his gun to his ear, {hot him
dead. Then tut-hing to us. cried, So we kill bear
in my country. so you kill them, {aid 1, you
rogue; why you have no guns. No, fays he, no
gun, but {hottee great much long arrow. Durin
the tell of this journey we were terribly peliered by
the Wolves, of which we killed {eventy, 1, how,-
ever, arrived fafe at~Dover, with all my wealth
about me, when I placed the good widow, who
had been my fleward, in eafy circumttances.

Some tit'ne afterI married; and not knowing how
to l we without employment, retired into the
country to a little farm; but in the middle of this
felicity my wife died, leaving me three children.
By the lo{,s of my {age counfellor, I became like a
{hip without a pilot, that could only fail before the
wind. One of tny'brother's children I had brought
l up to the fee, and had given him a thin. He was
going a'voyage to China, and came one morning'to
i alk if l would go. with him to fee my beloved
l
l

1-,..-
.V e i W.-.

"'mw ' W...>>
.5, ,

t4

__ <<y 4---- 7
"wt... W1~':m\

.. '__',.._______._....-A *'

., -~..vu.,i....~..-M - nus-4'>>) he"; {AM

.9. in. _-. .

i "it":

"an..." .

in

ifland. -_I had had fuch a romantic fcheme for tome
time in thy thoughts, and therefore readily clcfed
with his propofal. Having made my will, and
fettl'ed my eltate on my children, we fet fail, taking
'with me fome {ervantsi two carpenters, a fmith,
and an ingenious fellow whom I called my Jack,
offal-trades, with a eonfidcrable quantity of all
kinds of neceffaries, for the life of my fubjee'ts on
theifland. . - . >>.

AS- {oon as we came within fight of it, I called to
Friday, and alked him if he knew'where he was,
when clapping his hands, he cried, 0 yes ! 0 there!
and danced and capered like a mad fellow. Now,
Friday, {ays I, we {hall fee your father, at which he
looked very dejected, and, with the tears running
down his face, ifaid, No, no, no. fee him"meze, no
ever more fee again. He long ago die. LOng ago.
fie-much old man. , -

When we went on (here, at the tide of the flood,
the firit man I {aw was the Spaniard, whore life I
had faved. I had ordered that no one {hould land
but myfelf; however, there was no keeping Friday
on board, for he {aw his father, andhe flew like an.
arrow out ofa bow. If there was the fame affection
in our part .of the world, we mould have had no
need of the fifth commandment.

About this' time a great number of favages of'difl~

 

'4 gel-em nations lafided, and fought a battle, in which
3':- thirty~two men were killed upon the (pot. 'Three
: pf the routed party ran" up into theuwoeds,' whq
3 being taken prifoners, they made them their flaves.

Thegr terror of the favage armies made: them all
friends, for fame time; but, about two years after;
they were obliged again to d'ifarm- the turbulenf;
Englilhmen, who had almofi killed one of the flavee;
and {truck at a Spaniard with a hatchet. - . "
i i T hey obliged them how to live in a different pat;
of the ifland, and cultivate the earth for theml'elv'es 5
when the mad rogues, weary of working, took the
canoe, and went among the'favages to get them
{.ervants. The people treated them veryocivilly,
and in exchange for a knife, 3 hatchet, and fix or
{even bullets, gave them eleven men, and five wo-
men, whom they had taken prifoners to eat; and
they were obliged-to hurry away, or they would
have compelled them to begin their inhuman feafi.

Before they came to the ifland, they {ct eight of
their prifoners at liberty. The Spaniards wouu
not marry anyof the women, but each of the Eng-a
l'ifhmen chofe one of them for his wife, and after;
wards became more civilized.

They had now another vilit from the flanges;
they kept clofe while they were in the ifland; but:
when they {aw them embark, had the curiofity to go
to the place where they had been; when, to their
furprife, they found three {at/ages left {aft afleep
upon the fltore. They could not think of killing
there naked wretches, and did not want fervents;
however, they took them prifoners 5 but, unfor-
tunately, one of them made his efcape, and {non
after returned witha large body of his Countrymen.
This fellow had been kept at one of the hats of the
honefi Englifhmen, and thefe two- poor men had
but jult time to remove their wives and children,
before they {aw their houfes in flames, On this
they retreated, and rent a fiave to the Spaniards for
help. They however halted at the entrance of a
thick wood, when two of the flanges runnirg digV.

a

70 ROBINSON cgusoi.

reEHy towards them, they climbed into a high free.
They now faw three following the two, and five
more following at aliulc dil'rance. They let the

' two firft pals, and then fired at the three; the firfl:

they killed, and wounded the {econd, who was the
fugitive prifoner that had brought all this mifchief
upon them. The five behind,teri ified at the report
of the gun, flood (till; but the yells and fcreams
of their wounded companion brought them all in a
huddle about him. Both the Englifhmen now let
fly together, and as the five fell down, they thought
they had killed them all; and therefore, without
charging their pieces, they defcended from the
tree, and went boldly to the place, where they
found four alive, two of them but very little hurt,
and one of them not at all; but they foon put the
wounded men out of their pain with the flocks of
their mufkets ; and then bound the unhurt man

' hand and foot, and left him.

They then Went to the retreat where they had
left their wives, and found that the two firl'c men
had been near the place in fearch of them. Here
{even of the Spaniards came to their alliflance,
bringing with them the lavage whom they had left
bound. E-mboldened by this aflil'tance, they re-
folved to go in quelt of the other favages. They
difcovereal that they had attempted to carry on
their dead, and {con after they faw them all em--
bark.

About {ix months after this, they were invadedby a molt formidable fleet, twenty-eight canoes full
of Images, armed with boots and arrows, great
clubs, and Wooden (words. To oppofe this. force,
/.there were feventeen Spaniarcltl, five Engliflimen,
old Friday, and fix flaves. 1T0 arm thefe, they had
fixtem mufkets, five piftols, three fowling-pieces,
two herds, and three old halberts. To the flames
they gave each a haibert, or along flafi' pointed with
iron, and a hatchet. 'Two of the women would
needs fight, and had bows and arrows, and each a
hatchet. The old Spaniard, whofe life I had faved,
Commanded, and Will Atkins, one of the three
daring Englifhmen, commanded under him.
' The l'avages came forward like lions, and Atkins,
with fix men, being placed behind a thicket, with
orders to let the firl't pats, he {inflated about fifty to
go. and then ordered three of his men to fire theif'
inufkets, which were loaded with fix or {even bullets
a-piece, among the thickel't of them. How many
they killed the}r knew not; but the poor wretche's
{eemed frighted to the lait degree. Then the other
three fired, and after them the firli: three in lefs than
a minute, Had they now retired as they were or-
dered, it would have been well; but l'caying to
charge again, fome favages at a dillance {7 w them,
and lurrounded them behind,wounded Atkins him-
felf, and killed an Englifhman, a Spaniard, and a
gallant Indian flave, who, with no other weapons

but an armed Raff, and a hatchet, killed five men.
~ 'Atkins was then obliged to retire, as were alfo
the Spaniards, who had behaved with great gal-
lantry, killing about fifty of their enemies. Atkins,
though wounded, would have had the governor
march and charge them in a body; but the Spa:
niard replied, Seignior Atkins, let them alone till
morning, when they will be filfl'with their wounds,
and faint with lofs of blood. That's true, Seignior,
reylied Atkins; but {0 {hall I too, andthat's the
reefon why I would go while I am warm. Seignior
Atkins, returned the Spaniard, you have behaved
gallantly, and done your part, and therefore we
will fight for you.-- But it being a clear moonlight
night, they refolved to fall on them then; eight of
them let fly amongft the favages, and then eight
more; loading and firing as fall: as they could.
They then :'an in three parties among them, and
did great execution, killing in the tWo fights one
hundred and eighty. The re", with nimble feet,
got to the {ea-Ede, wheie their canoes lay: but
they could not embark, for it blew a terrible fiorm,
and the next morning the canoes were driven by
the {urge of the fen, to far upon the (hole, that it
required infinite labour to get them off. Will At-
kins now advifed the commander to deflroy their
canoes, and they foon made them unfit for {wim-
ming at lea. This made the poor wretches quite
delperzte; they ran about the ifland, pulled my
plantation at the bower to pieces; trade the com
underfoot, and did our men ineftimable damage,
who were forced to hunt them like wild beafts.

Iieeexer, n hen they 'ere reduced by hunger and

 

l

P

l
v s
i

i3'" '-\ <<H13:

31'"-

"Fire"

. {ROBINSON (211135052. " 7;
flaflgliterto thirty maven in 'n umber, they febmitted,
and'the Spaniards gave them food, with all kindof'

/ii'ecdrarie35, and permitted them to have a planta--

tion. 'Tlieife penp'le {con became civilized, for the
Spariia'rds and E'nglilh went am'o'fig them; though
the Indians-wees forbieden, on pain of death, to
go to their fetelemems. ' ' '

This th the fittlatiOii of the ifland at my arri-
iva'l,' with the additioh of- tfwen'ty little children, for
the Women 'had all been 'firuitful. My coming was
a particular relief, 'becaufe I furniflxed them with
kn'ive's, fii'ovels, pick--axes, and every thing they
could Want. ' f

VVhen the Spaniards and Englifli were all af-
fembled, I told them that I came'm ellablii'h them
there, and not to remove them ; but before I dc-
livcred them the Roses I had brought, I alked them

' one by one, if they could {hake hands with each

Gt'h'er, and engage in a. [hielt friendlhip and union

'ofinterefi, {0 that there might be: no more mifmf-

derftawndiing amongl'l: them' 4 Will Aftkins'fiaid very
frankly; they had met with afilie'cions enough to
make them all fober, and enemies enough to make

- them all friends; than for his part he would live

and die with them, and, if -'I defired it, would afk 7
the Spaniards pardon for the bmti'i'n things he had
done to them; but the Spailiards vfaid, he had be-
haved {o \gallamly in fighting againfl: their cbmmon
enemies, that lie merited being trulted, and they
molt heartily "embraced this 'occazidn cf alluring

L;____
him, that they never withed to have any feparate
interett. Upon there frank declarations of friend-
thip, we made a Splendid feafl', dining all together.
We had fix pieces of beef, 'and four of pork outof
the thip, our punch bowl and materials to fill it; ten
bottles ofclaret, and ten of beer ; and the Spaniards
roafled five whole kids, {ome of which were fent to
our feamen on beard. At this feait we were in-
nocently merry, and then I produced my cargo,
'and prefented the artificers I brought with me. - I
took on {hore with me the young man, whofe mo-
ther was (larved to death, and the maid, with the
French ecclefiaflic we had faved out of the burning
fliip. This 'prief't, who was a very worthy man.
talking to me one day about my ifland, (aid, with
great good manners, that I ought to attempt the
converlion of my favage fubjefits, and to have the
'women lawfully married to the men they lived with;
I told him I could not day for the firlt, and as to
the loft, I would {peak to the meneabout it. He
then (aid, in a kind of ecfiacy, If I would give him
leave, he would fray himfelf on the itland to he
their infirufior; adding, he (hould be thankful if
he Could be the happy inflrument of converting
' thefe thirty-{even favage's, though he never fet foot
off the ifland while he lived,

Some time after this, I converfed wizh my Eng-
liihmen about their wives, tand Will Atkins, as a
{pokefman for the red, (aid, that if any man would
carry him to England, and make him Captain of
the belt (hip in the navy, he would not go without

 

\A aonmsox CRUSOE. 7";
. he might carry his wife and children with him}, '-
/ and that he wc uld be married the next day. if there '
<<fits a clergyman upon the iflandl' I tl-cn told them
that the French gentleman was a minilter, and that ,
they {hould be married the next morning, but be-
fore this pious priell: would perform the ceremony,
he wanted to-perfuade the men to convert their
' . wives; but as they did not underfiand French,
>> i nor be Englilh, I was their interpreter on both fides.

i He told them, that he was afraid they were but in- >>_
different Chril'tians 5 and unlefs they would promife :
to teacu their wives as well as they could, he would

1 net marry them. Lord, Sir, {aid Will Atkins,

= how {hould we teach them religion ? we know
nothing of it- ourfelves. If I was to tell my wife of
God and Chrilt, and heaven and hell, and that:
wicked people went to the devil, {he would afk me
where I intended to go? The prieft faid, let him. "
but repent himfelf, and he'll (can become an excel.
lent preacher to his wife. The poorefellcw feemed
much affected, and {aid he would have fome talk
with her.

While he was gone, the priel'. married the other _
three couple. Will Atkins then came in, and I
began to talk with him, and alked him 'who was his
lather ? He anlivvered, a better man than I (hall ever:
be, he wasa clergyman -, he would have given-me a'
.. good education ; but; like a beafi, Idefpifed all in-
, llruetion. I murdered my poor father, for my

bad behaviour broke his heart. But how - comes
. >> . - G 2 i : '
this to touch you jult now, Will ?' I replied. Why,
{aid he, .you 'fet the-to teach my wife, and {he has
been preaching {nah a ,fermon to me, as I {hail
never forget. I. told he: God had agpointed mar-
riage ; when {he told me, I had no God in my
'country; and when I laughed at 1m for laying {0,
file laid, No laugh; why laugh me ! This nothing
,0 laugh. If God makec me, Why you no tell. me
long ago. Haveyou de great~ God in your country>>,
you no know him! No fay O-to him! No do good
ting fox' him? that no i-mpofsirlxle. I replied it was
very true for all that. Why, faid (he, he no make.
you good live?! You lay me' he is gxeat, can make
kill w hen he will. Why he no makes kill when you
no few-e .him. He no know. Yes, I anfwered,
he knows and feels all things,-and hears =us (peak.
what! manned the, he no hear you Swear, curl-'e,
{peak the great ulamn .P Yes, yes, hears it all, I, cried.

Where he then the muehee great power firong !
He never n'mkee kill, never angry when we do
wicked, then he be no good, himfelf, or no great
able. Yes, my dear, {ays I, he does fomesirnes
yu'nilh in this world, and many; are cut off in their
fins, and then go to hell, wherethey are miferable
for ever. He no makee you dead 3 '(he returned,
and you no tell him rank you for all that! I am an
ungrateful dogrthat's true, I returned. I will; you
makee me know, God, {he replied, I no makee him
angry 5 I no do bad ting. I'll pray to' God to teach
vou, he replied; when (he refumefl. He give all
flog, when he makee me.good,1f1 w1lh to be good,._.,____

"may"
ROBINSON crumbs, 67;,

he {pare me, no makee kill me when I nol'te good;
Me take, tiuk, believe him ted): great God, me
will tank him with you my dear. V Atkins faidgthat
he Could here forbear no longer, but prayed with"
his wife. In a word, the pour woman, after. lame
converfation nizh the prick, in which I was inter-
preter, defired of herfelf to be baptized, which was
done,' and (he was afterwards married; and my
jackmf-all-trades was married to the woman whom
I had faved from (taming.

soon after this, having, by my fovereign au.
thority, divided the lands amongfl then; torprevent
quarrelling, I left the ifland; but I had not been
lrom it three days, when we .difcovered a great
number of canoes, which came very near us, or;
which we made figns for them to put' back, which
they did ; but difcharged about five hundred arrows
at us; and wounded one of our men; being un~
willing to fire upon them, I ordered Friday to {peak
to them, when inl'tantly they dilehargcd another
flight of arrows, that killed poor Friday, no'other
man being in their fight. Enraged- at the lols of
my old fervant, I gave them a broad-flde, {which
ovetfet many of their canoes, and the relt :fled To
(an, that in a. little time there was not one-to he '
feen. ' '

We now fieered lo the Eafl Indies, flayed a few
days at the Cape of Good Hope, where-wetook in
frefh water, and failed to Madagafcar, where the
people behaved with eighty, and traded with our

3 .gliziskxflJi.
. . . ..ul.1...1a:.3p'1..11< . u
, . we>>? a

_
_,.
a
m

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

78
men; but one night, many of the crew heing on
(here, and I inthe boat which aims at anchor very
near it, we heard them fire their guns, and call
aloud for the aliiltance of the boat. We foon
rowed to (here; but our men were in too mueh
battle, and jumped into the water; for they were
purfued by three or four hundred of the natives,
Seven of them we took up, one was killed in the
beginning of the fray, and one was left behind. I
found that this outrage proceeded from the fellow
that was milling, who endeavoured to be rude to a
girl that came to fell them milk. I was unwilling
to go and leave the fellow in the hands of thefe bar-
barians, and therefore the next night we went on '
more. We landed without any noife, but could
not find him we wanted. I was then for going on
board, but they refolved to feek for their companion
in the Indian town, which was'at a little diltance,
nor could I diffuade them from this mad exploit.
Their firlt defign was only plunder; but finding
their comrade mangled, and hung on a tree, they
were {'0 enraged, that they fet fire to the town in
three places. My nephew, who was in the (hip at
a diflance, feeing the flames, came with thirteen
men to the boat where I was. He wasfurprifed to
fee me and the fupercargo in the boat, with no
more than two failors; but, however, he refolved to
go afterhis men, and I went with him. When we
camenear the town, we {aw three women flark
naked, and after them fixteen or fev'ent'een men

flying in the greatelt co'nliernation, purfu'ed by
three of. our Engliflt butchers. My very ~foul
thrunk within me, "and I verily believe, had our
three Englifll faiIOrs continued the purfuit, I (book!
have ordered our men to fire upon them. Some of
the poor flying wretches were miftrably burnt.
Vt'e {oon {aw our boatfwain, who was one of the
forwardeft in thofe 3&5 of cruelty. He {ct up a
{hoot of trium h at feeing me : Captain, noble
Captain 5 I am g ad you are mine, cried he; villains.
hell-hounds, dogs, we have {worn to {pare none of
them 5 I'll kill as many of them as poor Tom' had
hairs. Batharous wretch, cried I, what are you
doing? fiend fliil, or you are a dead man this mi-
nute, V'v'hy, fir, kid he, if you want a xeafon for
what ue luve done, lock herer' Ne then mowed
me the you: fellow hanging by one amt, with his
throat cut. At this fight, my nephew, and thoae
we brought w ith us, Were as enraged as thcfe who
1:;in been in the mallkcre, and went all together to
finial their bisozly work, leaving with me only he
{upercmgo and two Other men, with whom i'
Walked back to the boats and retumed on boar ,

lending the pinnace bail; to fetch the men, who got '

on board in the morning, unhurt, except one of
than being a little leached, and another having
spanned his ane'fle.

I was-exitemfi-ly angry with my nephew, and all
the men, about this elixir; and at tall, on my'fre-
queutly {bowing my abhorrence' of this mall'acre. as
I alwe.ys called it, they mutinied. I was then on
{here *' Regs-5'1, 'and en: and all faid, they would

(it p;

.l ' " WR~ 3'; ,_ nww
2 ROBINSON Causoe. 8:
leave the (hip, if I ever l'et foot in ie. My nephew,
the Captain, was obliged to comply, but {eat me -
money and neceflitries. ' *2" s ; ~ .' . , .
{took a lodging in the houfe oflan Engliilh woman,
where I got acquainted with a rnerchamz;i we bought -
a'thlp, and went a; voyage to China, which" proved
very' fuccefs-fnl, ancl made-another! to * the fpice
ifl'and's, with the like good fortune. \Ve than
boughta large velfcl -, but this purchafe had like to
have felt us Our lives 5 for the people of' whom we
had" bought her, having their Captain. killed on .
{hm-e, hed run away withdhe (hip, and turnede '
pirates; this we heard inthe river Cambodiarwhieh '
obliged 'us to fly, and we>> were purlued by {we 05
the 'Eafi'Indifi Company'o boats, which we kept of?
with our-guns," an'd'm'ad'e \the hell: of our way to
Toniluin, under the'utmofi terror of being feized,
and hanged-ae pirates. Our {hip having fprung a
leak, we there lat-id her down to (top it. "While (he
was in this condition, the natives not feeing our
men, came round usin twelve large boats, fix pooling
it to be a Wreck; we were in an ill pollute for
fighting, all hands heingat work, paying the fliip's '
bottom: we immediately {at about righting the
(hip, but before we could do it, they had boarded
our long boat to make prifoners Come of our men.
The firll: they {eized was an Englilhman, who, in-
ltead of. firing the mut'ket he had in his hand, laid it
. down in the boat, and feizing the fellow by the
ears, he bymain force dal'ned his brains out againtt
the gunnel; while a Dutchman, with the butt end
of the'mufket, knocked down five of them. In the
mean time, a i'cliow who attended the carpenter with
a kettie of boiling pitch, fainted the Pagans with a
Ltd}: cf the hot fluff. which the carpenter feeing,
cried, Well done, Jack, and dipped a mop into
the boiling pitch, iprinkled it protufely over them,
which made them howl mofl: dreadfully; and am).
tfzer kettle of the fame materials gave us a com>>
'lc-te vic'tory, without firing "a gun.

We left this bay the next msming, and failed to.
Nanquin, when, to our great jey, w: {old our vefl'ci
to a merchant of Japan, and afterwards traveflcd
v. ith a large caravan, through China, Siberia, and
Idofcovy, and arrchd at London on the 10th of
jenuar)', I705, having been abfent from England
this laa't time, ten years and nine months. And
now refohring to harafs myfeif no more, I am pre- _
paring for a longer journey than all thofe ; for I
have jited feventym'o years, chequered with in-
finite variety, and hase been taught {uflicientiy the

vaEue of retirement, and the blefiing cf ending my

days in perecze, and in the true worfliip of my Ai-

migtgty Dilivucr.

THE END.Notice is hereby vixen,

A: sl-e PLACE where this 3001c 1113 bought, the." "allowing
may be had .

Tiwznvzruuw BOOKS, viz. Happy Famlly; Anecdotes
- (51' Children; Visible World; Hillary of Pamela; Letter
Writer; fEfop s Fables; Hymns and Moral Songs;
Mother GOufe' 5 Tales; Chrillmas Tai es Wiqum in

Miniature; Moore' 5 Female Fables , Mental lnfi; 1:
tion , Indian Cottage; ()regory' 5 Legacy , Gay's
Fables; Whole Duty of Woman , Dielionary of Loy-;
Death of Abel; Economy of Life; Rochefaucaulrs
'Vlaxims; Qeen Mab, The Mirror.

SxxvraNNY Booxs, viz. Pretty Poems; Primrofe Pretty
Face; . \'lemolrs of a Pea Top ,3 Healing Moralifl;
Be Merry and Wife; Hillary of the Bible; Tom
I'nps Hlflory of Birds 3nd Beaks; Philip Qarll;
Sleepmg Beauty in the Wood; Holiday Prefezrt;
SandfOrd and Me rtpn; H1ft01-y or the Good-
vlllc Family; The Fa1rmg, or Golden Toy; '
The Sugar Plumb; Mrs. Pleafant's Story Book-y-
l':'1mrofe Pretty face; Pleafing Fabulifl; Tales of;
Pant Times by Mother Goofe; Goody T1110 Shoes;
Babes in the Wood , and Valentine Gift.

FOURPENNY Booxs, v1z. Little Charmer; Memo": of
Little Perfonages , Mother Shlpron' 3 Legacy , Ch'mnicle
of the Kings of England, and the Britifh Champion.THREE'PE'NNY Becks, vlz. Child's Flrfi Book; Tom
Thumb's Play 806%; Mother's Gift ; Looking Glafs;
; lnfiruefive Mifcellanyg and New Royal Primer.

TWOPZNNY Booxs, vlz. Lilliputian Mafquerarle- "=--~_\
Skilful; Golden Prefent; hiafier Charles <<
Kitty; Fables for the lnfirufiion of Youth, Jhild's
DeElght; The New Year's Gift; Eaflcr Gift; W'inters'
Amulement; Honey Jug,

PENNY Booxs, v?z. Golden Plaything; Hlflory of
Linle Francis; Tom Thumb; Ple'ture "Gift; Pielure
Alphabet; Golden Alphabet; Whittingron and his
Cat; Goody Two Shoes; TommyTwo Shoes; Riddle-
Book; Roblm'on Crufoe; Babes in the "food; Robin
Hood; Cock Robin; Cinderella; Houfe that Jack
Built; Slfier's Gift; Fables; Enchanted Cattle.
Giant Grumbo; London Cries; Serious Addrefs am;

Catechifms.

Primed 6y '2". "7%): and R. Spmte,
Higb-qutgate, To] .5.