
SIDNEY S PRESS : 

PUBLISHED BY J. BABCOCK & SON, 
New- Haven- ; 

AND S. BABCOCK & CO. 
Charleston, S. C. 


1825 


FRONTISPIECE 



FHE 


ADVENTURES 


or 

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


WITH ENGRAVINGS 



SIDNEYS PRESS : 

PUBLISHED BY J. BABCOCK & SON; 
New-Haven ; 

AND S. BABCOCK & CO. 
Charleston. 


1825 , 


'•^o^oo^^coccoco^ocoooceooceo^ocoec't 

BOOKS FOB CHILDREN, > 

ORNAMENTED WITH PLATES, 

JUST PUBLISHED AND FOR SALE, 

By J. BABCOCK & SON, 

AND 

S. BABCOCK & CO. 


WATTS’ Divine Songs ; Little Goody Two-Shoes ; 
Holiday Sports ; The Little Deserter ; The History 
of Blue Beard ; Robinson Crusoe ; The Riddle Book ; 
Whittington and his Cat ; Pictured Alphabet ; House 
that Jack Built ; Ill-Natured Boy ; Marriage of Cock 
Robin ; Present for Little Girls ; History of Beasts ; 
do. of Birds ; Good-natured Little Boy ; Death of 
Cock Robin. 

J. B. & Son are constantly publishing and add- 
ing to their Stock of Juvenile Books, which they 
offer, at wholesale or retail, on reasonable terms. 


»05 


HOBmSON CRUSOE 


Those who are accustomed in their early 
days to do wrong, will with difficulty be 
persuaded to do right when they shall be 
grow n to the age of maturity. The parents 
of Robinson left him early to the guidance 
of his own will, and, as he loved play bet- 
ter than his book, his youthful days passed 
without any attention being paid to the im- 
provement of his mind. Those hours which 
ought to have been spent in some useful 
study, were squandered away among idle 
boys in the street, to his own detriment, 
and the disgrace of his fond parents. 

One day, as Robinson was walking about 
the port of New-York, the place of his na- 
tivity, he met with one of his old compan- 
ions, whose father was master of a ship, 
and who was then on the point of sailing 
for London. The young sailor persuaded 
Robinson to go with him, which he did 
without taking leave of his parents, and 
thereby committed a rash and wicked ac- 
^ tion. f 

The wind w as favourable, they weighed 
anchor and proceeded on their voyage. — 
Robinson soon lost sight of the land, and 


6 


ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


nothing was left to his view but the ship in 
which he was sailing, the water beneath, 
and the sky above. 

The two following days, the winds and 
weather proved favourable; but, on the 
third, the heavens began to be overcast, 
and every thing seemed to forebode an ap- 
proaching storm. The air sometimes ap- 
peared to be on fire, and dreadful peals of 
thunder followed the vivid flashes of light- 
ning; the rain fell in torrents, and the wind 
blew^ the billows of the ocean to a tremen- 
dous height. One moment the vessel ap- 
peared mounting to the clouds, and the next 
moment as if descending to the lowest re- 
gions : sometimes it lay on one side, and 
sometimes on the other. 

All on a sudden, crack ! crack ! went the 
deck. ‘‘Heaven have mercy on us!” cried 
the sailors, who turned pale with terror, 
and lifted up their eyes to heaven. “What 
is the matter?” said Robinson, who was al- 
ready half dead with fear. “ Ah !” replied 
the seamen, “we are lost; a clap of light- 
ning has shivered our mizen mast to pie- 
ces, and our main mast is equally in dan- 
ger.” “We are lost!” exclaimed another 
voice from the inside of the ship : “we have 
sprung a leak, and we have already four feet 
water in the hold.” 

At these words, Robinson, who was seat- 



8 


ROBINSON CRUSOE* 


ed on the cabin floor, fell into a swoon, and 
entirely lost his senses. All the crew ran 
to the pumps, and exerted all the force they 
were masters of, to keep the ship from sink- 
ing. The captain fired signals of distress, 
which awakened Robinson from his swoon, 
but soon threw him into a worse state, 
when he supposed it to be the noise occa- 
sioned by the ship’s foundering. 

After some time, a large boat came to 
their assistance ; but it was with great dif- 
ficulty, on account of the dreadful waves, 
that they could get on board of it : and 
Robinson must have perished, had not a 
compassionate sailor thrown him on board 
of the boat. They had rowed but a short 
distance from the ship when they saw it 
sink. Fortunately, at this instant, the wind 
abated, otherwise the boat, loaded as it was, 
must have been overwhelmed in the* wa v es. 
However, after many dangers, they reach- 
ed the ship to which the boat belonged, and 
were all taken on board. 

The ship that had received them then set 
sail for England, and, in a few weeks en- 
tered the mouth of the river Thames, and 
soon after anchored in the port of London. 
They then went on shore, happy in the idea 
of having escaped with their lives. 

Robinson amused himself for a few hours 
in review ing some parts of this great city ; 


ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


9 


but Iiis stomach telling him he stood in need 
of something to eat, he went in search of 
the master of the vessel, who received him 
kindly, and made him sit down to the table 
with him. 

After dinner, the captain asked him what 
business brought him to London ; when he 
replied that pleasure was his only motive, 
and at the same time confessed, that he had 
undertaken the voyage unknown to his pa- 
rents. When the captain heard this, he 
appeared much shocked, and advised him 
to return immediately to his native country, 
and at the knees of his parents to implore 
their forgiveness. 

Our imprudent adventurer then took his 
leave of the captain ; but, as he was going 
to enquire for a ship, different ideas crowd- 
ed on his mind. “ If I now return (said he 
to himself,) my parents will punish me for 
leaving them, and my companions will 
laugh at me for having seen only two or 
three streets in London.” 

On reaching the quay, he found no ship 
ready to sail for United States ,* he met 
with the captain of a Guineaman, who very 
kindly invited him to take a cup of tea on 
board of his ship, and Robinson accepted 
the invitation. The consequence of this 
meeting was, that Robinson agreed to go 
to Guinea with the captain : and, at that 


10 


ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


moment, he totally forgot his parents* 
friends, and country. 

They accordingly set sail with every ap- 
pearance of a pleasant passage ,• they had 
passed by Calais, cleared the channel, and 
got into the Atlantic Ocean, without any 
accident. The wind, however, now chang- 
ed, and was so violent, that it blew them on 
the coast of America. 

They had not sailed long on the coast, 
when they heard the report of cannon : and 
as they were at some distance from the 
land, they concluded they were signals of 
some ship in distress. They therefore 
steered their course towards the report of 
the guns, and soon discovered, by a flame 
at a distance, that it was a ship on fire, 
which soon blew up, and nothing more was 
heard or seen of her. The captain, how- 
ever, bent his course that way, and contin- 
ued his signals, hoping he might thereby 
pick up some of the crew, who had proba- 
bly taken to their boats. It fortunately so 
happened, that the crew of the unfortu- 
nate ship, directed by the signal guns of 
the Guineaman, come up with her, and 
were all saved. 

The good and generous captain, having 
safely conveyed to Newfoundland the peo- 
ple he had saved, pursued his voyage to 
Guinea with a favourable wind, and arriv- 


ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


11 


ed safe at Madeira, carrying with him 
thither the crew of another ship he had met 
with irt the greatest distress. 

As the captain was obliged to stop here 
some time, in order to repair his ship, 
which had been damaged by the storm, 
Robinson, in a few days, began to be tired 
of inactivity, and wished for wings that he 
might, as quick as thought, fly over the 
whole universe. 

During this interval, a Portuguese ship 
arrived from Lisbon, bound to Brazil : and 
Robinson, getting acquainted with the cap- 
tain, heard him talk so much of gold and 
precious stones, that he conceived the most 
ardent desire to go there, and load his 
pockets with those valuable articles. 

He then informed his good friend, the 
captain, that he intended to sail in the 
Portuguese ship to Brazil, As the captain 
had just learned from Robinson himself 
that he had left his parents without their 
knowledge, he was very glad to get rid of 
him, fearing he should have no success 
while so impious a youth was on board. He 
therefore gave him leave to depart, gave 
him some money, and the best advice he 
could. Robinson took a kind leave of his 
friend, w^ent on board the Portuguese ship, 
and sailed for the Brazils. 

The voyage proved agreeable for several 


1j2 


ROBIXSOX CRUSOE. 


days ; at last, a violent storm blew from 
the south-east. 

After weathering the storm seven days, 
a sailor cried cut with excess of joy, that 
he saw land, which brought every one on 
deck. This joy, however, was of short du- 
ration ; for they ran upon a bed of sand, 
where they remained fixed, and exposed to 
the furious waves, which rolled over the 
ship in vast bodies. 

All on a sudden the cry was general that 
the ship was filling with water. Every one 
instantly flew on deck, the long boat was 
handed out with incredible haste, and every 
one endeavoured who should first get in. 
The boat was so loaded, that it was easy to 
foresee, that it would never reach the sliore, 
which was at a considerable distance. In 
fact a monstrous wave was seen rolling to- 
wards them, which buried them all in the 
bosom of the deep. 

The boat being thus overset, Robinson 
and the rest of the ship’s company were 
exposed to the mercy of the ocean ; but the 
same wave that overset them carried Cru- 
soe with it and threw him on the shore. He 
was thrown against a piece of rock with 
such violence, that the pain awoke him 
from the swoon into which terror had 
thrown him. He opened his eyes, and see- 
ing himself on land, he exerted all his ef- 
forts to gain the height of the shore. 


13 



14 


ROBINSON CRUSOE* 


When he had recovered himself, lie rose 
to look round. Good God, what a sight! 
The ship, the boat, and his companions, had 
all disappeared ! nothing remained but a 
few planks of the ship, which the waves had 
thrown on shore. Himself was the only 
one who had escaped death. 

Weary and fatigued be wished to find 
some place where he might enjoy a little 
repose ; but no hut was in view, nor could 
he find any place so secure as that of the 
birds, who passsed their evenings in the 
trees. He clambered up into one, and 
there passed the night, having properly se- 
emed himself from falling while sleeping. 

In the morning he descended from the tree, 
in search of food, having eaten nothing the 
preceding day ; but his searches were vain, 
nothing presented itself that the human 
stomach could digest. He threw himself 
on the ground, shed a torrent of tears, and 
wished he had perished in the sea, rather 
than be left to die a miserable death by 
famine. 

He was now forming in his mind by 
what means he should put an end to his mis- 
erable existence, w ithout waiting the tedi- 
ousness of dying with hunger, when he saw 
a sea falcon devouring a fish he had taken, 
and said to himself, “ [f God furnishes 
these birds with food, he will not suffer me 


ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


15 


to die with hunger.** This idea renewed 
his spirits, and he exerted himself to walk 
along the sea shore. 

At last perceiving* some shells lying on 
the sand, he ran to them, and to his inex- 
pressible joy found they were oysters. 

Though these saved him from perishing 
with hunger, yet he knew not where to 
take his nocturnal abode, secure from sav- 
ages and wild beasts, if such were there. 
His last night’s lodging had been so uncom- 
fortable, that he dreaded repeating the ex- 
periment. “ What will it serve,” said he 
to himself, “ that I have escaped the fury of 
the sea, and have found something to keep 
me from dying with hunger, If I am at last 
to be devoured by wild beasts ?** 

“Poor unfortunate wretch that lam!’* 
exclaimed he, at the same time lifting up 
his trembling hands to heaven, “ Is it then 
true, (hat I am separated from all human 
beings, and that I must remain here with- 
out hopes of ever being taken from this 
desert island !” 

His attempts to discover a place where 
he might repose in safety, were for a long 
time ineffectual ; but at last he came to a 
small mountain, the front of which was as 
perpendicular as a wall. He examined this 
side with great attention, and found in it a 
little hollow place, to which the entrance, 
was very narrow. 


16 


ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


As he had neither pick-axe nor chisel, 
with which he might easily have increased 
the dimensions of the hollow place, he set 
his head to work how to supply the want of 
them. He observed that there were sever- 
al willow trees near the spot ; these he 
pulled up by the roots, with great difficulty, 
in order to plant them at the entrance of 
his intended cavern, and thereby make his 
habitation more comfortable and secure. 

He rose the next morning at break of day, 
when he hastened to the shore to appease 
his hunger with oysters, and then return 
to his labours. Having pursued a different 
route this morning, he, in his way to the 
shore, had the good fortune to meet with 
a tree that bore large fruit. He indeed 
knew not what they were, but hoped to find 
them good to eat, and immediately knocked 
down one. 

It was a nut of a triangular form, as 
large as the head of a small child. The 
outer bark was composed of threads, re- 
sembling hemp in appearance. The second 
bark, on the contrary, was as hard as a 
shell of a tortoise ; and Robinson soon dis- 
covered that this would supply the place of 
a bason. The contents were a moist sub- 
stance, which tasted like sweet almonds, 
and in the midst of it, which was hollow, 
something like milk, of a sweet and agreea- 
ble flavour. This was indeed a most glo- 


ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


17 


nous repast to the half famished Robinson. 
It was the cocoa-nut. 

His empty stomach could not be content- 
ed with one single nut, but he knocked 
down a second, which he ate with the same 
eagerness. His joy on this discovery filled 
his eyes with gratitude. The tree was 
very large, but it was the only one he saw 
in the place. 

He carried with him some oysters to 
serve him for his dinner, and he went cheer- 
fully to his labour. He had collected, on 
the borders of the sea, some large shells, 
which served him instead of a spade, and 
which very much accelerated his business. 
He soon afterwards discovered a tree, the 
inner bark of which formed a good substi- 
tute for cords or threads. 

He then continued his work with great 
assiduity, and planted tree against tree un- 
til he had formed a strong palisade before 
his intended habitation. Every night and 
morning he watered his little plantation 
from the neighbouring rivulet, and for that 
purpose made use of the cocoa-nut shell. 
He soon had the pleasure to see his little 
plantation in a thriving condition, and very 
beautiful to the view. 

Having hitherto succeeded to his wishes, 
he began to think in what manner to hollow 7 
out the little cavity in the rock, so as to 


18 


EOBINSOK CRUSOE. 


make it big enough for bis use. As he 
knew it would be in vain to attempt it with 
liis hands alone, he set about looking for 
some tool that might assist him in his ope- 
ration. 

It was not long before he met with a 
large and sharp stone, which not only re- 
sembled a hatchet with a sharp edge, but 
had even a hole in it to receive a handle. 
After repeated trials, he fixed a handle to 
it, and gave it all the appearance of the 
tool so much wanted. — Searching further 
among the stones, he found one that an- 
swered the purpose of a chisel, and others 
that proved excellent substitutes for a mal- 
let. 

By the assistance of these tools his work 
was so far advanced, in the course of a few 7 
days, that he had made sufficient room to 
lie in comfortably. He collected a suffi- 
cient quantity of grass, of which he made 
hay by exposing it to the sun ; and of this 
made his bed. 

Robinson, in order that he might not 
forget the order of the days, and to know’ 
when Sunday returned, invented a new 
kind of Almanack. As he had neither pa- 
per, nor any thing else to write on, he made 
choice of four trees that stood close togeth- 
er, and whose barks were smooth. On the 
largest of the four trees, he every night 


ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


1 


made a mark with a sharp stone, to she\? 
that the day had passed. When seveA 
marks had been made, he made a stroke 
through them all, and this was a mark fir 
a week. Every time that he had maile 
four marks in the second tree, he knew tiafc 
one month had passed, for which he nude 
one mark on the third tree. When he Sad 
mad?? twelve marks on the third tree, he 
then made one on the fourth, which denoted 
the year being completely finished. 

Necessity obliged him to make large ex- 
cursions into the island, in pursuit of the 
indispensable necessaries of life. 

Robinson rose in the morning with the 
sun, and prepared for his tour. He hung 
his pouch to a string, which he threw across 
his shoulders, put his hatchet instead of a 
sword, into his belt, and began his march. 

His first visit was to his cocoa-nut tree, 
on order to supply liis pouch with two nuts. 
Having supplied himself with this excellent 
provision, he went in search of some oys- 
ters ; and being supplied with these matters, 
to be eaten only in case of necessity, he 
took a hearty draft of water, and then pro- 
ceeded on his journey. 

At last he came to a brook, where he re- 
solved to sit down and dine. He seated 
himself under a large tree, w hose spread- 
ing boughs afforded a shade to a great dig- 


20 


ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


tance, and joyfully regailed himself. But 
n the midst of his repast, and all on a sud- 
<en, a distant noise terribly alarmed him. 
Re looked around him on all sides, and at 
last perceived a whole troop of savage ani- 
nnls approaching him, which had some re- 
senblance to our sheep, except that they 
ha4 a hump on their backs, which, on that 
account, made them resemble little camels. 
These are called lamas — they are beasts 
of burden, and peculiar to some parts of 
South America. 

Rcbinson, having killed one of these crea- 
tures with his hatchet, threw it across his 
shoulders, and was carrying it home to his 
cavern, when, in his way thither, to his 
great joy, he discovered seven or eight cit- 
ron trees, whose ripe fruit had fallen to the 
ground. He carefully collected them, and 
carried them home to his habitation. 

With a sharp stone he skinned the lama, 
whose flesh he so far roasted in the sun, as 
to make it eatable ; and some of his citrons 
squeezed into water afforded him an excel- 
lent and refreshing liquor. The skin he 
hung up to dry, and of this hereafter in- 
tended to make himself shoes. 

Robinson slept very soundly this night, 
and was angry with himself for lying so 
long. He was going out in order to make 
war on the lamas, but heaven prevented ; 


ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


21 


for he had no sooner put his head out of 
his cavern, than he was obliged to return. 
It rained so violent that the ground was 
covered with water, and this accompanied 
with the most dreadful thunder, which 
broke with such violence on the rock, that 
it seemed to shake it to the very foundation. 
This so terrified poor Crusoe, who, from a 
want of proper education, was naturally 
timid and superstitious, that he ran out of 
his cavern, and fell down in a swoon. 

He remained for some time in a st^ate of 
insensibility ; but, on recovering himself, 
found the rain, thunder, and lightning, bad 
ceased. 

During the thunder storm, a flash of 
lightning had set fire to a large piece of 
wood, which had kept burning for a con- 
siderable time. Robinson now rejoiced to 
find that he had obtained some fire, and 
even from that very event which had before 
given him so much uneasiness. He im- 
mediately set about to keep up the fire con- 
stantly, and for that purpose built a kind of 
stone chimney, in his new habitation. He 
watched his fire attentively, that it might 
not go out, so that he could now roast the 
flesh of his lamas, in a manner fit for hu- 
man creatures to eat. 

Going one day to the borders of the sea 
to collect oysters, he could find only a few ; 


32 


ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


but, instead of them, discovered what gave 
him infinitely more satisfaction. Though 
he had never eaten of them himself, he had 
heard that they were wholesome and deli- 
cious food. — This was a fine large turtle, 
which weighed nearly an hundred pounds. 

Robinson, with some difficulty, carried 
the turtle home to his habitation, by the as- 
sistance of his hatchet penetrated the under 
shell, dressed a part of it for his dinner, 
and made of it a most sumptuous feast. As 
he could not possibly eat it all at once, he 
was at loss how to preserve it from petre- 
faction. 

Necessity had taught him wisdom ; and, 
as he had neither tub nor salt, he set his 
head to work, in what manner he should 
preserve the delicate food. He found the 
upper shell, which he had not broken, 
would supply the place of a tub, and no- 
thing but salt was wanting. 

64 What a fool, I am !” said Robinson to 
himself, “ here is a plenty of sea-water, 
and that will supply the place of salt.” 
He filled his shell with sea- water, put the 
remainder of the turtle in it, and it was 
thus preserved from putrefaction. 

These happy successes encouraged him 
to exert his genius in greater attempts. 
Wishing to have some living animal about 
him, and the lamas were the only animate 


IlOBINSON CRUSOli. 


23 


beings except the spider, which he had seen 
on this island* But how he should get a 
pair of them alive into his possession was 
a great difficulty to surmount. He deter- 
mined to form one of the ends of his cords 
into a noose, and throw this over the head 
of the first lama that should approach him. 

He rose next morning early, and having 
furnished himself with his hatchet, provis- 
ions, and other things necessary, he pro- 
ceeded in his design of catching lamas alive. 

In the course of his journey he saw a pit 
at a distance, and advancing up to it, he 
found it was full of a white substance, 
How shall I express his joy, when, on 
tasting it, he found it to be excellent salt ! 
lie instantly filled his pockets with it. This 
discovery gave fresh spirits to Robinson, 
and he hastened to the spot where he hoped 
to trap a lama. 

It was not long before he ensnared a fe- 
male lama, which had two young ones, 
who, seeing their dam ensnared, came up 
without any appearance of fear, to Robin- 
son, and licked his hands, meaning there- 
by, perhaps, that they w ished their dam to 
be set at liberty. 

Robinson then dragged the old lama to 
his habitation, and there the tw r o young 
ones of course followed her. On his arri- 
val at his hut, he formed a little stall with 


24 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


25 


bricks, into which he put the lama and her 
young ones. Jt is impossible to express 
the joy Robinson felt on having compan- 
ions, even though they were not human. 

One day as he was sitting full of thought, 
the idea struck him to explore other parts 
of the island, as he had seen but a small 
part of it ; he determined therefore to pro- 
ceed on his tour ; the next morning he load- 
ed one of his lamas with four days provis- 
ions, equipped himself, and having implor- 
ed the divine protection, set out on his jour- 
ney. 

He had reached the centre of the island 
when he saw the impression of human feet 
on the sand, at which he grew pale and mo- 
tionless, concluding that if there were 
inhabitants on the island, they could be 
only savages or cannibals, not less to be 
dreaded than the beasts of the forest. A 
little further he discovered a pit, in which 
were evident marks of a fire extinguished, 
and about it were scattered the hands and 
feet, sculls and other bones of human crea- 
tures, the remains of a horrible and unnat- 
ural repast. 

He returned home and put his* habitation 
in the best state of defence, and cut a sub- 
terraneous passage from his house, through 
which he might escape in case of an attack. 

Some years passed without any thing 


26 


ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


material occurring. One clear and serene 
morning, he perceived the smoke rising at 
a distance ; his fright was followed by cu- 
riosity, and he hasted to the top of the hill, 
at the foot of which was his grotto ; he 
there clambered a high tree, from which 
he discovered several canoes fastened to 
the shore, and savages dancing round a 
great fire ; presently two poor creatures 
were dragged from the canoes, one of the 
savages knocked one of them down, and 
two others fell immediately upmi him to 
cut him to pieces and prepare for a feast. 
The other captive, while the savages were 
butchering his companion, took to flight, 
and ran with great swiftness near to Robin- 
son’s habitation. 

Robinson descended the tree and pro- 
ceeded to the spot where the fugitive had 
concealed himself. Robinson made signs 
for him to follow him, which he did with 
evident marks of fear. In a little time the 
fears of the indian were removed, and he 
made Robinson to understand that he was 
willing to become his slave ,• for though he 
understood not the language of the Indian, 
he was charmed with the sound of a human 
voice, to which lie had long been a stranger. 

As this affair happened on a Friday, 
Robinson gave to his companion the name 
of Friday. He gave him a skin to cover 


27 



A 


£8 


ROB INSOX CRUSOE. 


himself with, and made him set down by 
him. Friday obeyed in the most respectful 
manner, offering a lance to Robinson, and 
holding the point to his own breast, in to- 
ken of absolute submission to his will. 

Robinson, ever since his arrival on this 
island, had experienced no felicity like the 
present; all his fears centered in the idea, 
that the savages might return in quest of 
their victim, and demolish his habitation. 

He therefore set about making his cottage 
as strong as possible, by throwing up en- 
trenchments around it, and fortifying it 
with all the methods he could devise. Dur- 
ing this time Robinson endeavoured to 
learn Friday something of the English 
language, and the man seemed no less de- 
sirous. In less than six months he made 
such progress, that he could make himself 
tolerably well understood. 

One morning as Robinson was walking 
towards the sea-shore, he was much pleas- 
ed with the sight of a ship, though at a great 
distance. Robinson soon perceived her to 
be an American vessel, which was steering 
for the island, and soon came to anchor. 
Surprise, fear, and joy, seized Robinson 
by turns, and also his attendant, Friday. 
The sight of a vessel, which might take 
him off that island, gave him joy ; but this 
was succeeded by surprize and fear, be- 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


29 



cause he could not comprehend the motive 
that could bring a ship on these coasts ; 
but supposed she must have been driven out 
of her course by tempestuous and contrary 
winds. This turned out as Robinson sup- 
posed ; they cast anchor near the island, 
and sent their boat on shore in search of 


30 


ROBINSON CRISOE. 


resh water, and were much surprised at 
finding a white man on an island in so des- 
olate a part of the globe. Robinson was 
quite overjoyed at the prospect he now had 
of once more returning to his native home, 
and the great pleasure he enjoyed in the 
company and conversation of man, from 
whom he had been so long separated. Af- 
ter taking in a small supply of water, they 
set off for the ship, with Robinson and his 
companion. The next day they again went 
on shore for more water : Robinson now 
took from his cabin such things as he thought 
might be useful to him on the passage; he 
then took a last farewell of his habitation, 
and the water cask being filled, they all 
returned on board, and the ship sailed. 

A favourable voyage at length brought 
him in sight of his native country, and the 
heart of Robinson was expanded with joy ; 
when, suddenly, a violent tempest arose 
which in spite of all the efforts of the sea- 
men drove the ship on a sand bank, and 
forced away the keel and part of the hold. 
The water rushed in with such violence, 
that the only chance of escaping was in the 
boat, in which they happily reached the 
shore. 

When he came in sight of his native 
city, he could not help shedding tears. He 
had already learned that his mother, whom 


RORINSOK CRUSOE. 


51 


he so tenderly loved, had paid the debt of 
nature. On his arrival at New- York, he 
hastened to an inn, and thence sent a mes- 
senger to prepare his father for the recep- 
tion of his supposed lost son. The mes- 
senger had orders to tell the father, that a 
person had arrived with news from his son, 
who would be with him in a few days. 
The supposed stranger was introduced, and 
after a short interview, declared himself 
his son. — Let my readers judge, for it is 
impossible to describe, how great was the 
tenderness of this meeting. 

Friday, astonished at scenes so entirely 
new to him, gaped about him in silence, 
without being able to fix his attention on 
any particular object. In the mean time, 
the arrival of Robinson, and his surprising 
adventures, engrossed the conversation of 
all companies ; every one wished to see 
him and hear his history, and he was em- 
ployed from morning to night, in relating 
his adventures. 


FINIS. 


$ 

BOOKS AND STATIC NARY. 


S. BABCOCK & CO. 

329 

KING-STREET, CHARLESTON,?. C. 

* P 

Have on hand and for sale a good assortment of 

BOOKS AND STATIONARY , 

Including BLANK BOOKS, of various descrip- 
tions, and the most useful 

SCHOOL BOOKS, 

TOGETHER WITH 

POCKET BOOKS, PAINTS, LEAD PEN- 
cils, Penknives, Silver and Plated Pencil 
Cases, Pewter, Stone, Glass, and Pock- 
et Inkstands, Foolscap and Letter 
Paper. Quills, Pens, Japan 
and Durable Ink, Wa- 
fers Scaling Wax, 

Matos, &c. &c. 

And a great variety of Children’s Books. 


