Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



3 6105 120 086 462 ^^^^^^^^^S 








robins: .:. 

JENICHIRO 0\ABE» 






• 

• 


5 




m 



ly-V THE Hoo\ LR Library 

ON 

War, Revolution, and Peace 



^^ 



1 .^-.«- 



A JAPANESE 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 



BY 



JENICHIRO OYABE, M.A., B. D. 

ITY, 



HOWARD UNIVBRSITYi YALE UNIVERSITY, ETC 



BOSTON 
CHICAGO 



* • • 

• • • ■< 









202105 



Copyright, 1898 
By Jbnichiro Oyabb 






• • ••• • ,*• •• • • ,■• ••• • ■ _•_ .•^ • • »•• • • •* • 



i 



TO 

THE MEMORY OF 

rny fattier anb rnottjer, 

MY FIRST 

AND BEST TEACHERS, 

THIS BOOK IS GRATEFULLY 

INSCRIBED. 



> U t/S, 5- 



202105 



Copyright, 1898 
By Jbnichiro Oyabb 






^ 



TO 

THE MEMORY OF 

niY ^Jattjcr anb rnottjer, 

MY FIRST 

AND BEST TEACHERS, 

THIS BOOK IS GRATEFULLY 

INSCRIBED. 



PREFACE 



"The kingdom of Nippon," says St. Xavier, 
" is the delight of my soul/* And to one whose 
ideas have been trained in accordance with the 
habits of European civilization, Japan is indeed 
the land of surprises ; not, however, the country, 
but its people. But how can a foreigner know 
about them ? ** Of course, by reading their biog- 
raphies, that is, by means of written language,*' 
must be the answer. But, in the first place, must 
the foreigner learn our language, or shall we study 
his ? The first is more difficult than the last, as 
the Japanese is a language limited to that island 
empire exclusively, while the English or French 
IS almost universal. So, then, in this book let my 
imperfect English triumph over my own mother 
tongue. 

My object in composing this work is partly to se- 
cure the attention and interest of the young people. 
For I see some dangers arising from the effect of 
the wonderful progress of this country in the 
development of machinery, and from the tre- 
mendous power of money. These two are most 
convenient substances, and have saved a great 
deal of time and of human labor. But, on the 

5 



6 PREFACE 

Other hand, they corrupt the hearts of many of 
the younger generation ; leading them to seek 
after pleasure, luxury, and a life without labor. 
The " Japanese Crusoe " will tell them that there 
is nothing which can be bought without a price ; 
even for the Gospel one must pay faith and 
devotion. 

Another reason for this publication is, that in 
the social and religious gatherings to which I have 
been invited during my stay in America, I have 
always been asked by my friends, how I happened 
to leave Japan, what strange experiences I had 
during my roving, and how I was converted? 
When I was a student in the United States, I 
disliked to tell others in public about my early 
adventures. But now I have no objection what- 
ever to relate the story of my wandering life; if 
there be any benefit in it for others. Moreover, 
it would be disloyal in me to bury myself in the 
far East, keeping my unique experience to myself 
and the lesson of it hidden. So I propose to 
write out my story for the use of aspiring young 
people in the future. If any one who reads this 
narrative shall find any lesson of warning or of 
inspiration in my checkered life, and so take it as 
a compass for his life voyage, I shall be truly 
rewarded. 

I entitle this book " A Japanese Robinson 
Crusoe," because my wandering life much re- 
sembles that of the fictitious Robinson Crusoe. 
The difference between the old and the new Crusoe 



PREFACF 7 

consists in this, that the former drifted away un- 
intentionally to a desolate island, while the latter 
wandered purposely from island to island, looking 
for a "land of saints," and finally reached the 
shores of America, leading there, during nine years, 
a struggling life in pursuit of a higher education. 
I take this opportunity to extend most sincere 
thanks to these kind friends for their generous 
assistance during my wanderings : President J. E. 
Rankin, D.D., LL.D., of Howard University; 
Rev. S. M. Newman, D.D., of Washington, D.C. ; 
the late Gen. S. C. Armstrong, LL.D., of Vir- 
ginia; Prof. L. O. Brastow and Prof. G. E. Day, 
of Yale University, New Haven, Conn. ; Rev. 
Secretary O. P. Emerson, Hon. W. F. Frear, Rev. 
E. G. Beckwith, D.D., Hon. A. F. Judd, LL.D., 
of Honolulu ; and many others. 

Jenichiro Oyabe. 

New Haven, Connecticut, 
January, 1898. 



A JAPANESE CRUSOE 



CHAPTER I 



ORIGIN— CHILDHOOD 



Early one summer evening, when the air was 
pure, the earth moist, and graceful old pine trees, 
waving in the breeze, were playing their peculiar 
music together with the surge's roar which broke 
on the cragged beach, " Shipwreck ! shipwreck ! 
fire ! fire ! " was suddenly shouted by the simple- 
hearted fishermen who were mending their nets 
on a peaceful shore. 

While these men were preparing a life-saving 
boat, several strange black vessels rushed, amid 
circling clouds of smoke, into the bay. Soon the 
" stars and stripes ** were flung to the gentle wind, 
and the sailors boldly cast anchor into waters 
where no foreign vessels ever lay before. 

These were the squadron of well-equipped ships 
under the orders of the American expedition to 
Japan in 1853 ; and they were commanded by a 
gallant United States naval officer, Matthew Cal- 



II 



12 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

braith Perry, the young brother of the hero of 
Lake Erie. 

In those days most people in Japan believed 
that Nippon, the land of the Rising Sun, was the 
only divinely blessed country in the world. But 
the formidable appearance of the powerful foreign 
steamers greatly surprised the self-conceited sons 
of the Mikado. With the chief of the feudal 
lords, called Siogun, the United States made a 
treaty, and afterward, though slowly, other coun- 
tries followed her example. These treaties, how- 
ever, did not receive the sanction of the Emperor, 
but were negotiated by the Siogun's independent 
action. Thereupon the imperialists were stirred 
with intense wrath against the Siogun. A civil 
war followed, bringing ruin and desolation. After 
the memorable battle of Fushimi, the Siogun 
made peace with the Emperor, and formally re- 
signed his office. About the same time, the Em- 
peror died at the old Capital. The young Crown 
Prince was thereupon declared sole sovereign, 
and the whole empire was placed under his direct 
rule. The old imperial palace which had been 
the residence of many Mikados was removed to 
Tokyo, formerly Yedo. The old record of dates, 
which had been kept for many centuries, was at 
once changed for the European calendar. An 
excellent system of civil and commercial law was 
adopted from European countries. Post-offices, 
a national bank, and a school system were estab- 
lished. Newspapers were printed and circulated 



ORIGIN^CHILDHOOD 13 

for the first time; the coast was made bright 
with lighthouses ; the first railroads were opened, 
telegraphs connected the important cities, and 
many other features of Western civilization, in- 
cluding the latest army and naval improvements, 
were copied. 

In those busy days of New Japan, amid its 
earliest scenes of splendor, I was born in Akita", 
in the province of Dewa, on the twenty-third 
day of December, third year of Kieoli, according 
to the old Japanese calendar. My great grand- 
father was of noble descent. He was the prince 
of Mogami in the province of Uzen. My grand- 
father was a soldier and a noted teacher of 
fencing, though afterward he was adopted by a 
worthy merchant in Akita. My father was more 
cultured, and had a profound knowledge of law 
and politics. In his early boyhood he was sent 
to a Buddhist high priest in order to obtain phil- 
osophical knowledge. 

One day he was called to his home on account 
of his father's sudden illness. When he arrived 
at home, he found his father lying in bed, and 
dangerously ill. The father grasped the hand of 
his son, and said : " I was born of a noble family, 
but in my boyhood I was treated very unkindly 
by my parents. So, one day, leaving a letter for 
my father, I departed from my father's palace 
without his permission. My desire was to go to 
Satsuma to find the best teacher in philosophy. 
On the way to that province my money was 



14 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

stolen by a highwayman. I became a helpless 
wanderer, and was rescued by a noble-lopking 
traveller. The gentleman advised me to come 
with him to his house. I thought he was a 
Samurai class man ; so I followed. But after I 
arrived at his house, I found that he was a 
wealthy business man. Soon I was adopted as 
his son, and was obliged to marry his daughter.** 

While speaking this, the tears ran down his 
face and he was almost overcome by emotion. 
Still he continued : " But, in the first place, I was 
mistaken in thinking my father cruel and lacking 
in affection ; for was there ever a parent who did 
not love his own children ? My father, the 
prince, chastised me because he wished me to be 
a wiser and better son in the future. My present 
repentance, however, is too late. But take this 
as an example for yourself. Correct your best 
beloved child for his own benefit. For no man 
can understand the truest meaning of a gratifica- 
tion unless he pays the proper price. It should 
be the outcome of toil in his early years. Above 
all, let not your son, as an offspring of my noble 
family, ever disgrace it." 

After giving many such instructions, the poor 
fugitive prince's soul was at rest and the body 
returned to the dust. I realized afterward that 
his last word was the very cause of my long wan- 
dering life. 

My father devoted himself to studying the laws 
and politics which had been newly introduced to 



ORIGIN— CHILDHOOD 15 

our country from the West. His name became 
known to the regent of Iwasaki, and he was invited 
to the palace as a civil adviser. Shortly before 
the civil war broke out my father advised the 
regent to obey the orders of the Mikado. But 
his suggestion was not accepted. My father 
retired from his office and devoted himself again 
to study. 

His silent, cottage life was like a hermit's, and 
even my mother had no idea what his desire for 
the future was. She often asked my father to un- 
dertake some practical work, instead of digging at 
the pages of books. But he did not pay any 
attention to her requests, nor change his mind. 
His habitual reticence enervated my mother and 
caused the sickness which led to her death at the 
early age of twenty-four. I was then only five 
years old. Immediately after her death I was 
taken to my grandmother*s house, because it was 
too much for my patriotic father to take care of 
his young boy himself. 

At about this time political troubles occurred 
between the governments of Japan and Corea. 
A warlike spirit filled the empire. My father 
could no longer stay at his humble cottage. 
"Why do I sit here and study in quiet ? ** he said. 
" This is the time to give my life for my country ! *' 
He started for Tokyo, the capital, leaving his 
aged mother and myself at home. 

Soon my good grandmother sent me to a 
common school where my father*s intimate friend 



i6 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

was the principal. The schoolmaster was very 
kind, and was, indeed, a father to me. He paid 
special attention to me in all branches of knowl- 
edge. But again there came a painful trial upon 
me. It was the death of my grandmother. 
" Though I depart from you, yet my soul will live 
with you until you become a man," was her last 
word to the unfortunate boy, myself. I was then 
taken and cherished by my aunt. 

Although I was born in a heathen family, yet 
it was my chief impulse to become an anti-idolater, 
and it came from the death of my grandmother. 
In the beginning of her last sickness the doctors 
said that she could not live more than a week. 
As soon as I heard this I determined to pray to 
the gods for her life, and even to sacrifice my own, 
as in Japan there is connected with prayer for the 
life of a relative the religious ceremony of offering 
the suppliant's life for that of the sick person. 
It was a cold winter's day when I got up at one 
or two o'clock in the morning to worship in a 
dozen of the Shinto temples, and came back home 
before the people were up. Sometimes I bowed 
down and worshipped gods while the priests poured 
many bucketsful of cold water upon my body 
according to the Shinto custom. 

All my prayers were in vain, as the idols gave 
no answer to them. Finally, my sick grand- 
mother's breath was gone. My patience was dead. 
I said to the idols : " You have eyes, but cannot 
see ; you have ears, but cannot hear ; of what 



ORIGIN— CHILDHOOD 17 

good are you ? *' From that time on, I did not 
worship Shinto or Buddhist idols. 

One day we, the schoolboys, went to the yard 
of a large Buddhist temple. When I saw the 
stone and bronze idols in the yard, I told my 
playmates that the idols were not gods, and those 
who worship them would have severe punishment 
from heaven. I bade the boys break them in 
pieces, perhaps in the same manner as is suggested 
in the book of Psalms : " Thou shalt break them 
with a rod of iron ; thou shalt dash them in pieces 
like a potter's vessel.** Without waiting for any 
one, I went up to a large stone idol and pushed it 
backward with my full strength. It was thrown 
to the ground and broken into pieces by its heavy 
weight. This so pleased the other boys that they 
all followed my example and tried the same way 
with each of those idols. 

Just as we were leaving the yard, we saw two 
priests coming toward us, so we all ran homeward, 
but, unfortunately, two of the youngest were 
caught by them. The next day, an old, dignified 
priest came to my house and told my aunt that 
I was the leader at that notorious sport of 
breaking the idol gods in the temple yard. The 
priest asked her to pay the full expense for the 
damage. 

My aunt was very angry with me. She sent 
me to the house of her country relative, who was 
a Buddhist priest, for punishment. While I was 
there I had a good opportunity for studying the 



l8 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

Buddhist philosophy under the guidance of the 
priest. 

The village was situated at the foot of a high 
mountain. Once a rumor went through the 
village that there was a living god in that mount- 
ain. The hunters and mountaineers told me often 
that they saw the living god clothed with grass 
and leaves. I did not believe the story, for my 
conclusion was that gods were spirits and have no 
shape like man. 

One day, through curiosity, I went up to the 
mountain without speaking of it to my priest. I 
missed the road, and so climbed up the mountain 
through forests, resting in the caves at night and 
seeking after the living god in the day. And, of 
course, I found out that it was nonsense. 

During my absence, however, the priest and his 
people were looking for me all through the village, 
without success. They thought that while I was 
swimming in the river, I had met death by drown- 
ing. So the priest employed a dozen small boats, 
and men with fishing-nets to search the water for 
my supposed dead body. In the midst of this 
great confusion and trouble I came home weary 
and disappointed. When I saw the terrified priest, 
he exclaimed : " Where have you been all these 
days? and what will you do next, I wonder? I 
think I must punish you this time ; back to your 
aunt's house." 

He then sent me to my aunt's with a^ervant. 
When I returned home my aunt's patience was 



ORIGIN^CHILDHOOD 19 

already exhausted. But she welcomed me heart- 
ily, and the very next day she sent me to a gov- 
ernment school, where I enjoyed the study of 
Western art and science, and after being there four 
years, I was graduated. 



CHAPTER II 

LEAVING father's HOUSE 

Most miserable and worthy of most profound 
pity is such a being as a foster-child. I met again 
with inexpressible suffering in the sudden death 
of my good patroness, the aunt. 

In those days I had a desire to come to the 
capital and to devote myself to higher study. 
So I took my share of the property, to which I 
was entitled on the death of my mother, and 
started for the city of Tokyo, a distance of more 
than three hundred miles. I walked all the way. 
As soon as I arrived at the capital, I entered a 
government school under the care of my cousin, 
who was then a resident in that city. 

While I was in Tokyo I read an article in a 
newspaper one day and learned that my father 
had been one of the judges in the Supreme Court 
in Osaka for several years, and was now situated 
at Aidsu, in the northern province. I did not 
know anything about my father until that time ; 
for though he filled so high an office, he had never 
sent me or my relatives any letter; " because,** he 
said long afterward to his friend, " I was afraid to 
spoil my son*s independent thought by his trust- 
ing himself entirely to me." 

20 



LEA VING FA THER 'S HOUSE 2 1 

Soon I wrote and asked him if I might live with 
him and study law under his direction. He 
answered me with a long, affectionate letter, and 
with some money for my travelling expenses, and 
bade me come home as soon as possible. 

It was on a snowy day in November that I 
started for Aidsu, passing over high mountains and 
through rivers without experiencing any difficulty, 
as it was all overcome by the intense hope of see- 
ing my long-forgotten father. 

When I reached the city I could not find the 
residence of my father. I wandered here and 
there, and at last I came to a quiet part of the 
town where I found a middle-aged gentleman 
standing near the gateway of a house. 

" Please tell me where is the residence of Judge 
Oyabe? '* I inquired of him. 

"Judge Oyabe?*' The gentleman repeated my 
word, and looked at me very closely. 

"Yes ! the judge is my own father, " I went on 
with a tone of pride. 

" Ho ! ho ! is this then my only son, Jenichiro ? *' 
he said ; and his eyes were now filled with tears, 
and, hand in hand, speechless for surprise, we en- 
tered the house. 

The very next day my father began to teach 
me the philosophy of Confucius and old Chinese 
poetry. For, at that time, he claimed that Euro- 
pean literature and science were developed only 
objectively, while Oriental literature was more 
subjective. He gave me instruction every day with 



22 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

most wonderful zeal. Very often, when we came 
to discuss certain philosophical questions, our 
bright lamp was burning even until the morning. 
One evening, when he was interpreting to me 
the First Book of Confucius, he stopped at one 
chapter for quite a while, and read it again and 
again very thoughtfully. The following is the 
translation of the verse : 

" Men are partial where they feel affection and 
love ; partial where they despise and dislike ; 
partial where they stand in awe and reverence ; 
partial where they feel sorrow and compassion ; 
partial where they are arrogant and rude. Thus 
it is that there are few men in the world who 
love, and at the same time know the bad qualities 
of the object of their love, or who hate, and yet 
know the excellence of the object of their hatred. 
Hence it is said, in the common adage, * A man 
does not know the wickedness of his son ; he does 
not know the richness of his growing corn.* " 

My father kept a long silence. I could not 
imagine what had happened to his mind ; but after 
that day, as I remember, he treated me coldly, as 
if I were a stranger. 

Besides the heavy tasks of the lessons, my 
father gave me a daily duty, which was to feed his 
little canary bird. One morning I forgot to feed 
tlie bird. The next day, when he found the 
little creature struggling with hunger and thirst 
in the cage, he summoned me immediately, and 
put me into a wardrobe, and locked the door 



LEA VING FA THER *S HOUSE 23 

for a whole day without giving me any food or 
water. When I was released, he said to me very 
tenderly : 

" If your love and kindness do not reach even 
to such a small bird, how can you sympathize with 
men ? But you must not be like that bird, which 
lives in a cage and depends upon its owner's care. 
Because some day when I give my life to my 
country, you must surely suffer from the very next 
day." 

My father began to think that it was not a very 
wise way to educate his son in such a country 
place. He wished me now to see the wide world 
in which the most successful men have had their 
training. So he tried to put me away from him, 
and asked several of his friends in Tokyo and 
Osaka about a good school for his motherless boy, 
myself. 

But in those days he did not tell me anything 
about his plan. So I did not understand exactly 
what was in my father*s mind. But I could see 
by his manner that he was trying to put me away 
somewhere. I thought that I was too poor a 
scholar and had not ability enough to succeed my 
honorable father, and, therefore, he was discarding 
me from his family. 

My heart was now filled with sorrow, and I 
cried like a child, recalling the most unhappy 
state of my life since the death of my beloved 
mother. I thought all earthly hopes were vain ; 
and at the same time, there came to me the 



^4 ^ JAPANESE CRUSOE 

thought of leaving my father, and of devoting my 
life to the Ainos, the uncivilized race of Japan, 
like the Indians of America. 

After some weeks, when I read a book called 
" The Revival of Yoshitsune," a story of a Japan- 
ese prince who fled to Tartary and became the 
world-renowned Genghis Khan, as the Japanese 
and Chinese scholars believe, my heart was strong- 
ly fixed, and my young desires prompted me to 
follow in the track of that old, distinguished hero. 
Thus, from that time, I devoted myself wholly to 
the study of books adapted to my plan, such as 
natural and physical geographies and some agricul- 
tural books instead of to my regular lessons in 
philosophy and law. Of course, that was all un- 
known to my father. 

One morning after my father had gone out to 
the court-house to his official duties, I took my 
books to study as usual. Just as I was copying 
the maps of Manchuria and Siberia, my father 
suddenly came home, on account of some illness. 
As soon as he found the strange books around 
me, he exclaimed : " What are you trying to do 
now ? Are those Confucius* great books of phi- 
losophy? " 

But I kept silence. He suspected that I had 
not spent the time over my lessons during his 
absence every day. 

" What is the meaning of this, and what have 
you to say ? ** repeated the indignant father, his 
anger increasing with every breath. " Do you 



LEA VING FA THER 'S HOUSE 25 

think that I am a blind man ? Certainly, if you 
keep on in this way, you can never be my noble 
forefather's successor ! ** 

Instantly, he rushed into my room and threw 
my desk and bookcases on the ground, and tore 
all my books into pieces. 

" Now speak ! what have you to say to this ? " 
he repeated. 

Still I did not say anything, but stood before 
him like a figure carved in marble. 

" Listen ! if you have nothing to say, I will give 
you two questions from which to choose : First, 
will you devote yourself hereafter strictly to my 
orders ? Second, will you do your own pleasure 
in your own independent way ? ** 

He bade me also give him a definite answer the 
next morning. Then he slowly passed from my 
room, leaving me to make my decision. 

Our proverb says, "A father's love will be 
known after the son becomes the father of a 
child.** I was too young yet to know the true, 
loving heart of my father. That night I could 
not sleep at all. In my wakeful hours I prayed 
for the first time to my unknown but true Father 
in heaven. " Ah, how weak and faulty are all 
human beings ! I obey the word of my heavenly 
Father alone,** I soliloquized. And though at that 
time, I did not know the wonderful verse in the 
Bible: "Get thee out of thy country, and from 
thy kindred, and from thy father*s house, unto 
a land that I will show thee,** yet I had in my 



26 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

mind almost the same feeling as that expressed by 
the inspired Word. 

Now, I made up my mind positively to leave 
my earthly father, to devote myself to work among 
the Aino people, to remove them from their 
miserable island home to somewhere in Manchuria 
or Siberia ; and to rule over them and set up my 
new kingdom on that vast unknown continent. 
That night I prepared for my journey, so that on 
the next morning I could be ready to start from 
my father's house. 

Our old saying is, "A father's heart is more 
stricken than the heart of a cast-off son.*' My 
poor father now was painfully anxious about me. 
Early the next morning he called me to his study 
and asked me kindly about my choice, which he 
fully expected would be to stay at home with him. 
Hence he was the more disappointed when he 
heard my decision to lead an independent life. 

" What, will you leave me here alone ? " the 
poor father exclaimed. 

Soon the crimson of his cheeks was gone, the 
long hidden tears like rain-drops now fell without 
measure. 

Although it was the father's purpose to send 
his beloved son out into the world, yet when the 
reality came, he found it very painful to let him 
go from his bosom. 

" You had better consider it again, my son," 
said he, and entered into his chamber. He wrote 
me, after many years, that when he went into his 



LEA VING FA THER 'S HOUSE 27 

room at the time of my departure, he prayed to 
heaven and asked its guidance for right judgment. 

After about an hour he came out from his 
study and said in great sadness : " Go ; I grant 
thee leave ; be true and do right wherever thou 
goest/* 

Such was the origin of my long, wandering life. 
In an evil hour I started from my father's house, 
on the 1 2th day of July, 17th year of Miiji. 

If this story were written by some one else, the 
author would surely say : " On the whole, I have 
some doubts whether young Jenichiro's manner 
was quite as respectful as it ought to have been to 
one who was older and higher in office than himself. 
I should not recommend my young readers to 
imitate him in this respect.'* But it is my business 
to describe Mr. Jenichiro just as he was and to 
tell exactly what he did. 



CHAPTER III 

AT YEZO ISLAND 

A YOUNG man is naturally strong and vigorous. 
He has a great variety of thoughts and feelings. 
Having many thoughts, his wisdom and wit gush 
forth like a spring of water. Having much feel- 
ing, his heart is easily moved. He has strong 
impulses, therefore he loves an active life rather 
than a quiet one. Truly, youth is like a glorious 
day of spring. It is the time of seed sowing, and 
whether this seed shall grow or decay depends 
upon the care taken of it. There is no other 
season so dangerous for a man as the days of his 
youth. The father or mother needs a strong hand 
to hold the reins straight and direct him safely 
through those hazardous days. 

My father had now given up his hold of the 
bridle and rod, and he left me to run freely the 
wide world over, under the guidance of my greater 
Father in heaven. 

I started from my father's house, and turned 

my feet toward Akita, my native province. When 

I arrived there, the first thing I did was to call 

upon my relative. The old lady was pleased to 

see me and welcomed me kindly, but as soon as 

28 



A T YEZO ISLAND 29 

she heard that I had left my father's house, and 
had become a wanderer, she changed her first 
welcome into coldness. 

" Well, well ! I am, then, a perfect stranger to 
you, and am not your relative any more,*' she 
said briefly. She gave me a little food, wrapped 
in a paper ; " I give you this for my part of hos- 
pitality. I want you to take this and get away 
from here at once ! " 

Such is the real condition of heathen friend- 
ship. " Heaven will reward you openly." I left 
her that word and departed hastily for the Island 
of Yezo, to work and die, as I thought, with the 
poor Ainos. 

Yezo Island is situated in the northeastern part 
of the Japanese empire. Its original inhabitants 
are the Ainos, the uncivilized race that once 
occupied the main Island of Japan. 

The origin of the Ainos is generally believed to 
be the same as that of the Mongols. But they 
are more like the ancient Jewish people. Some 
writer has said : ** The Ainos are the descendants 
of the sailors and gold hunters sent out by King 
Solomon to gain spoil for his temple at Jerusalem." 
They are a good-natured, brave, and faithful 
people, though stupid, it may be. Among them 
there is no alphabet, no writing of any sort, and 
no number above a thousand. During the summer 
months they live in rude huts which are thickly 
covered with bamboo leaves and straw. Their 
daily labor in summer is chiefly fishing and hunt 



30 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

ing to prepare the winter stores ; and when the 
snowy months begin, most of them, excepting the 
chiefs and the more important ones, dwell in 
caves in the mountains. 

" A century ago the Ainos were living in the 
age of stone. They are beyond it now only be- 
cause they have obtained knives from the Japan- 
ese. The stone arrow-heads, which one may pick 
up almost anywhere, even in the ploughed fields of 
Hakodate, have given way to heads of bamboo or 
iron. Their language is still a puzzle ; their 
traditions and myths are scarcely known except to 
a few students. They seem incapable of advance- 
ment. After a century of contact with the Japan- 
ese, they have learned no arts, adopted no improve- 
ments. The hunter to-day shoots the bear with 
poisoned arrow from a bow as primitive as early 
man himself, although the Japanese are famous 
for their archery and weapons.** 

The Ainos, like other savages, refuse to live 
with civilized people. So when the Japanese 
settled a part of the seacoast on Yezo Island, 
they gradually left their own villages and towns 
for the interior, where perhaps no human foot was 
ever planted before. 

On that account, when I arrived at Hakodate, 
the chief seaport of that island, I could not find 
any Aino people near the town. So I decided to 
make a long journey into the interior. I bought 
all necessary things, such as a tent, a small kettle 
and a pan, a pistol, a knife, and some provisions. 



A T YEZO ISLAND 3 1 

I started then toward the northwest, directed by 
my small pocket compass. The journey was a 
painful one. For there was no road, nor were 
there houses to rest in. Moreover, the wild 
animals, such as bears and foxes, troubled me a 
great deal, especially in the night. It was very 
strange, however, that the animals never came 
around my tent, though their noses scented me as 
pleasant game. 

One afternoon, while I was passing through a 
thick forest which was covered with wild grapes 
and thorns, I found two young bears, not more 
than a month old, playing with each other. At 
that time my provisions had grown short and I 
was having a hard time. So I took my pistol and 
fired at one of those little creatures. The ball 
entered his head and he fell dead. The other 
cub became very much frightened. I ran after it 
and caught it with my hands. The cub was just 
like a fat young puppy, with black hair and thick 
clumsy paws. I tied its neck with a rope intend- 
ing to keep it as my pet. Meanwhile the day was 
almost gone ; so I stretched my tent to spend the 
night. I gathered sticks and dried leaves, and 
made a fire. Then I dressed my new game, which 
when nicely cooked was eaten by myself and the 
victim's brother. 

That night, about eleven or twelve o'clock, I 
heard a strange noise as though some one was 
digging around my resting-place. I thought it 
was a mountain robber. I made a small hole in my 



32 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

tent, and looking out, by the bright moonlight I 
saw the large, angry mother-bear just trying to 
enter my tent by digging away the ground. Of 
course, she was going to kill me in revenge for 
killing her son. I was taken unawares, for I had 
forgotten to take my pistol into the tent. But 
at last I found way of escape. Fortunately my 
tent was pitched close to a tall oak tree, so I made 
a hole in the canvas with my knife just large 
enough to crawl through ; then I slipped out and 
climbed up the tree ; thus I escaped from the 
mouth of the malicious animal. More than once 
the bear tried to climb to the place where I was, 
but she was too heavy to come so far. I was in 
the top of the tree until noon the next day, when 
the mother-bear disappeared impatiently with her 
recaptured cub. I then came down with trem- 
bling limbs, gathered all my things, and departed 
with the loaded pistol in my hand. 

My provisions were all gone now. So I often 
went into Aino huts and begged some food to eat. 
" Now I have become a penniless beggar to the 
poorest Ainos whom I desired to help," I said to 
myself with a hearty laugh. Though I had plenty 
of money in my pocket, yet it was useless in the 
interior of the savage island. At last I reached 
a large Aino town. While I was walking round 
the village I met with a young native who could 
speak the Japanese language somewhat. I asked 
him to take me to a good Aino family where 
the host would be willing to give me a room. 



AT YEZO ISLAND 33 

He then kindly took me to the chief*s resi- 
dence. 

The chief was a tall gray-haired man with a 
long white beard. He had a rather white or 
foreign complexion as compared with that of the 
average Aino. I was warmly welcomed by him 
and his family. The old man showed me all his 
precious things which had been handed down from 
generation to generation. He told me that it was 
his great sorrow not to have a son to inherit all 
those things. 

The next day the chief asked me to give a talk 
on the Japanese prince, Yoshitsune, the Aino's 
favorite and one of the supreme gods. That 
night a crowd of natives gathered, in response to 
a notification by the chief. In the open air I 
spoke to them through my native interpreter. 
The chief and all his people seemed much in- 
terested in me. At the close of my speech they 
came to me and asked me if would stay with their 
chief and help him, offering to support me with 
all things necessary as long as I should live. By 
such kind words of the uncivilized, yet good- 
hearted people, I was greatly moved. I thanked 
a kind Providence and temporarily settled myself 
in that native village. 

The honorable judge's only son had now be- 
come a poor Aino, wearing a peculiar kind of cloth 
which was made from the bark of trees ; eating 
mainly salt bear, dried fish and seaweed, with 
a little barley and rice occasionally. My morn- 
3 



34 ^ JAPANESE CRUSOE 

ing labor was fishing and farming; in the evening, 
I taught the alphabet as a basis for writing the 
Aino language. 

My voluntary work became gradually success- 
ful. One day I heard through a native that there 
was a white man named Batchelor, teaching these 
people somewhere on the island. ** How kind !'* 
I said to myself. " Even a foreigner sympathizes 
with our poorest Ainos. How much more should 
we, the Japanese, help these unfortunate breth- 
ren.** From that time, and as the outcome of my 
experience, the question arose in my mind of in- 
troducing some proper religion among these people 
unknown to the world. " Shall I lead them to 
Buddhism ? or Shintoism ? Nay ! I should never 
let these people worship idols, neither introduce 
any religion that has no knowledge of the true 
Father of the universe." 

I believed thoroughly that spiritual progress 
was more needed by these Aino people than mere 
material advance. It was my desire to give them 
a true religion. But in those days I did not know 
what was the true religion. I was like a blind 
man on that subject ; and it was quite impossible 
for a blind man to lead the blind. So I began to 
pray, and to ask my unseen Father which religion 
I should follow. '* Seek after the true Saviour, 
and follow him,** was what I seemed to hear as a 
divine answer within me. 

I was now obliged to give up my intense desire 
to take the Aino race to the continent. Here I 



AT YEZO ISLAND 35 

must confess my ignorance. At that time I 
thought that the great country of Siberia did not 
belong to the Russian Empire, but was independ- 
ent, or without any form of government. I gave 
up my plan of establishing a new kingdom on the 
mainland, and, instead of it, was now seeking most 
diligently after the true spiritual King, and the 
way of building up his kingdom upon the earth. 

Although at" that time I did not know much 
about the " foreign doctrine,** yet when I was at 
school I had read that Christianity is the principal 
religion among the civilized nations, especially in 
the United States of America. 

My question was how I could get to America 
and get a higher education. One beautiful day, 
when I took my old garment out into the sunshine 
to rid it of the mould, I found a map of North 
Siberia and Alaska in one of the pockets. I 
thought it was providentially brought to my hand, 
and I studied it carefully. At last I made up my 
mind to come to the United States of America by 
crossing the Kurile Islands, Kamchatka, North 
Siberia, and then Alaska. Thence I expected to 
reach California, the place so well known all over 
the world for her valuable gold mines. " What a 
strange man I am,** I said to myself, ** for I am 
going to California to dig out the bright golden 
truth instead of the shining dust of the earth ! ** 

I am sure that no traveller in the world had ever 
tried such a queer expedition as I had planned. 
Of course I needed a large quantity of provisions. 



36 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

So I got up every morning about five o'clock and 
went to fish herring and salmon with a company 
of natives within the chiefs dominion. On bright 
days I cut the herring in two, from head to tail, 
and hung them outside and made nice dried fish ; 
and on rainy days I cut them in the same way 
and hung them up in my fireplace and made 
delicious smoked herring. 

It was now the beautiful autumn. The good- 
hearted daughter of the chief kindly picked wild 
grapes for me whenever she went into the forest. 
I did not eat any of the fruit but hung it on the 
sunny side of the house and made a kind of 
raisin. 

" Why don't you help yourself instead of mak- 
ing such dry grapes?" very touchingly she 
demanded of me every time she gave me the 
fruit, and each time my heart was broken ; for the 
poor, loving sister did not know my great truth- 
seeking desire, because of which I was preparing 
the provisions, and because of which I was going 
to bid her a long farewell ! 



CHAPTER IV 

ON TO AMERICA 

The hoar-frost lay glittering over the tender 
grass. The forest leaves had changed their deep 
green color to yellow and red, and the first winter 
-winds were wearily sighing. 

** Oh, how wondrous rare the autumn scenes are ! 
But yesterday the summertide was here, and now 
it is dead. So comes and goes our life. At the 
longest, how short it is ! But though so short and 
so full of meaning, yet here, on this desolate isle, 
for no crime I have done, I find myself a lonely 
exile. I have no relative to comfort me, neither 
do I see any prospect before me but to be pitied 
by the poor Ainos,*' I soliloquized. Then I began 
to pray in a loud voice as though addressing some 
one near my side : " Father in heaven, have mercy 
on me ! Come now and take full possession of my 
soul. And if thou wilt, let me soon leave for the 
land of light and happiness." 

" Why will you forsake us now, and go away for 
the land of light and happiness, you cruel man ? " 
was the sudden, anxious word of the chiefs 
daughter, who had come close to my window and 

37 



38 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

heard the last words of my prayer, and now gazed 
straight into my eyes. 

For a maiden of no more experiences, it was 
natural, perhaps, that she should have such a sus- 
picious idea. But it was a very painful extremity 
for me. Since my arrival at the island, it had been 
my custom to love all people ; and it is the law of 
nature that if we love others, they will return the 
love. Among such people, however, things are 
often misunderstood, such for example as pure af- 
fection for a worldly love ; nobleness for pride ; ser- 
vileness for humility, and for stinginess economy, 
etc. 

" May be so, but you must not mind me at all. 
I have a great duty to undertake for the good of 
the whole community. I must leave here for 
America sooner or later.** I spoke kindly, yet my 
heart was beating fast, and I felt exceedingly sad 
and gloomy. But my intense love of the truth 
overcame all this difficulty. 

" Oh, you wicked, wicked person ! ** she cried. 

Surely she must have thought of me as a cold- 
minded youth, for she was not intelligent enough 
to understand that my plans, as well as my expe- 
rience and education, obliged me to act as one 
indifferent, although my heart was tender and full 
of sympathy. 

" You wicked young man ! I will tell my fa- 
ther all the cruel things that you have spoken to 
me. 

Soon the color flew into her face, and she gath- 



ON TO AMERICA 39 

ered the brown cloak closer about her eyes, and 
ran into her father's house. 

The faithful and noble-looking chief and three 
of his younger brothers walked quietly toward my 
abode. When I said to them " Good afternoon, 
attenas [elders]," they cordially raised their hands 
and stroked their beards, as was the custom of the 
Ainos in their hearty salutations. 

" My young prince/* said the chief, " did I not 
look upon you with favor? and have you any dis- 
agreement with me? I pray you, abide with 
us." 

" Thank you a thousand times. I want you to 
listen now to my speech and hear the reason for 
my departure," I said to him with fervent devo- 
tion. " Just now we have no true religion. The 
dark curtain of immorality and cruelty covers all 
classes of society. Charity is unknown even 
among worthy people. Thus those of the poor 
class are forever poor. The- majority of them 
have no social standing and are treated but little 
better than brutes. For example, see the condi- 
tion of your own people. In this glorious age you 
live as your ancestors lived a thousand years ago. 
Let me ask why ? Because none of our able and 
worthy men ever paid any attention to you, or 
gave any sympathy. Indeed, this proscription, 
this. galling yoke of bondage, must and shall be 
broken, if my heavenly Father will permit me to 
undertake the work. The causes of all these 
things are undoubtedly to be found in Buddhism. 



40 A JAPANESE CkUSOE 

See the condition of the people of India where it 
had its origin. So with Siam, Anam, China and 
Corea, the most prominent Buddhist countries, 
many centuries ago. They are now just dying be- 
fore the superior power of modern civilization. 
Let, then, their wreck be our warning. I must 
save my country from such desolation. And for 
that cause I must leave this country for the land 
of saints to learn first, under the guidance of my 
kind Providence, how to deliver you." 

The amiable old chief and his staff were so much 
excited by my long speech that the tears rolled 
down their cheeks, and they said that I war not a 
man, but an angel sent by the Spirit. 

" Go, my prince, and bring us the precious 
things from the land of saints," was the chief's 
encouraging word to me. 

After a few days I bundled together all the 
things which had been prepared for my long, 
snowy journey, such as a suit of winter clothes, a 
snow cap, a bag which was just large enough to 
put my body into, and one pair of boots — the ma- 
terials of all which were made of bearskin ; plenty 
of dried meat and smoked fish, dried, cooked 
rice, beans and some raisins, etc. The chief 
brought a young native to carry my heavy provi- 
sions, and told me that he could accompany me 
until I reached the very end of the island, where 
I would depart for America. 

A large number of Ainos came to me with 
presents of skin-cloth, shoes, and some dried fish 



ON TO AMERICA 41 

and food, and bade me an affectionate farewell. 
I did not take any gifts, for I had as much of my 
own provisions as we could carry. 

The chill of autumn was in the air, and the 
white flakes of snow covered the tops of the 
mountains. Now, as the wise men followed the 
star, I started with my young native servant from 
the old island home toward the United States of 
America. 

I turned my feet toward the northeast, directed 
by my pocket compass. After about three days 
of hard travelling, we came to a deep valley in 
Kitami. While we were passing through the 
wild, lonesome forest, we saw a dozen human 
skeletons and corpses lying here and there. I 
thought it was a very strange thing to find them 
in such a remote mountainous region. In my 
curiosity I determined to examine the cause of 
it. But my poor Aino servant, buoyant and ad- 
venturous as he was, was greatly frightened and 
began to cry like a child. I encouraged him, and 
we climbed up the wooded mountain. Midway 
up, the day became dark. Still pressing on far 
up, we saw a small light, which at last we reached. 
There we found an old house and a man sitting 
near the fireplace. We quietly walked near to 
the window to see what that man was doing. 

"Hush! hush! my master, the man is preparing 
some poison from Kuma grass. Oh, what a 
devilish look he has ! ** my man whispered to me. 

I knew that the hunters often made some 



42 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

kind of poison to put on the tip of their arrows 
and spears to kill wild animals, yet, at the same 
time, I had some doubt whether the place was 
not, perhaps, a resort of mountain thieves and 
murderers. So I tried to escape without meeting 
with the man. Just then we were discovered by 
two wolfJike dogs. They barked after us very 
loudly, so that the man took notice of it and 
came out to the entrance of the house. 

" Is there any stranger at this time of the 
night ? " the man cried, and when he found us 
outside, he continued in a deep, thoughtful voice : 
** Come in, friends. This is a mountain inn, and, 
if you like, we can give you some warm dishes, 
too.*' 

We had no place in which to hide ourselves, so 
I gave a solemn command to my servant that 
when we went inside the house he must not eat 
or touch anything ; also that we must be very 
careful to guard ourselves from any danger. 

The host seemed to me between forty and 
fifty years old, and he had a repulsive appear- 
ance. When we entered the house, he cleared 
all things away into a closet ; then he served us 
tea and some sweetmeats. We did not touch 
either of them, as we had previously promised. 

After I had narrated several wonderful stories 
of my journey, I remarked to the man that we 
had seen many human skeletons in the valley. 
When he heard this, he broke into a laugh, yet I 
noticed in his face that he looked surprised. 



ON TO AMERICA 43 

" Nothing strange about it, my young fellow. 
Some years ago this place was occupied by two 
men, and they kept it as a lodging house. I 
heard afterward that they were thieves who 
robbed the travellers and murdered them, then 
cast their bodies into the valley. That was what 
you saw, I suppose.** 

He then began to light his old pipe with the 
most spiteful expression of face that I ever saw. 
" Oh, was that all about it ? ** I replied to him, 
but in my heart I doubted whether that man was 
not doing the very same thing. 

After we went to our chamber, my man told 
me, in a very low voice, that the host was surely 
a thief and murderer, as he had heard about him 
before. He then advised me to escape before 
the old man should come to kill us. I, of course, 
agreed with him, and we noiselessly gathered our 
things. After we were ready to start, I threw 
from the window some dried fish and meat to the 
watch-dogs. While they came and were eating 
the food, we jumped out from the window and 
ran directly toward the east without being dis- 
turbed by the dogs or the man. Soon we found 
a good road, and after two days of difficult 
journeying, we reached Nemuro, one of the sea- 
ports on the northeastern coast of Yezo Island. 

Some one, perhaps, will laugh at me because I 
took such a strange way to reach America, since 
there are so many fine steamers on the Pacific now- 
adays. But my nature was such that I desired to 



44 ^ JAPANESE CRUSOE 

do what others did not try. Because of such a pe- 
culiar nature, I have met with many hardships and 
much misery in my life ; but, on the other hand, 
I have acquired a great deal of experience. A 
man cannot learn how to swim without getting wet. 
There is no other way to get wisdom except by 
toil and study. Though a young artist may have 
a serviceable machine to copy and enlarge the 
photograph for his canvas, still let him use freely 
his own hand to draw a portrait from life. So 
must it be with the young business man and the 
scholar. Though he be brought up in a worthy 
family, yet he needs the bitter tonic of the world. 
He will become strong, and get a wisdom out of 
his own experience that the universities cannot 
give. 



CHAPTER V 

CROSSING KURILE ISLANDS 

Now, my next plan was to cross the Kurile 
Islands, North Siberia and Alaska. So I tried to 
discharge my faithful servant, giving him plenty of 
provisions, clothing, and some other things which 
I bought in the town. But my man refused to go 
back to his old home, and asked me to take him 
wherever I went, even to America. I wanted him 
very much, but, on account of the scarcity of pro- 
visions, I dismissed him and urged him to go back 
home and carry my message to the old chief. 

From the port of Nemuro I took passage on a 
small junk to Etorofu Island, one of the largest 
pf the Kurile group. I went there because there 
were no ships going farther than that island from 
the port during the winter season. 

The snow had fallen, and the northern winter 
wind blew sharply, as if it would spear my flesh. I 
was now landed ; and on the way along the half- 
frozen shore, I found a great many salmon with- 
out heads. I imagined that the natives ate, per- 
haps, only the head and threw away the flesh. 
So I picked up one or two of them, expecting to 
use them for my dinner. I heard afterward from 
a native that bears came during the night and 

45 



46 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

caught the salmon out of the water, and ate only 
the head and left the flesh. Foxes, too, were 
plentiful everywhere on the island. They are 
never afraid of a man, even if he is armed. Thus 
I was providentially blessed, and had no trouble 
about provisions while I was wandering on that 
island ; for I could catch game at any time I 
wanted it. 

By an Aino hunter I was introduced to a worthy 
native. He was a very rich fisherman, employing 
hundreds of Japanese and Aino laborers during 
the season of herring and salmon fishing. I was 
kindly made welcome to stay with his family. 

One day I heard that a junk which belonged to 
him was preparing to sail for the neighboring 
island, called Onekotan. I told my host about 
my desire to go farther until I should reach the 
main land. He advised me to wait until the com- 
ing spring. But, in my eager desire after truth, I 
could not control even my own self. After re- 
ceiving his kind permission, I embarked with two 
Aino passengers who were going to that island to 
hunt under appointment of the Japanese govern- 
ment. 

Very soon the junk spread her queer, single sail 
and moved out to sea. That night we had a ter- 
rible storm. The sea became very wild. I was 
very seasick and lay in my bed in an almost dying 
condition. The storm increased with such fury 
that the sailors said they had never seen a worse 
one. 



CROSSING KURILE ISLANDS 47 

We wandered about on the deadly sea for over 
seven days, eating nothing but dried, cooked rice 
and a few dried fish without a single drop of fresh 
water. More than once I saw the master of the 
ship and his crew uniting their hearts and praying 
to their supposed god of the sea for help. The 
scene touched me very strangely ; for I knew well 
that when they were in port they had done all 
sorts of wicked things, and even on the sea, in 
calm weather, they practised most pitiful sports, 
such as fighting with each other, gambling and 
drinking, etc. But now before the wonderful 
works of the Almighty " which alone spreadethjout 
the heavens, and treadeth upon the waves of the 
sea," they returned to their true, original nature, 
and all became God-fearing men. I acknowl- 
edged more and more that we must not give our- 
selves wholly to worldly things, and forget our 
God the Father, recalling him only in the time 
of bitter trial, as these rough sailors did when 
they met such a horrible storm. 

After about seven days of wandering, we an- 
chored in the small bay of Onekotan Island. As 
soon as the junk had discharged her cargo and 
taken some fresh water, she weighed anchor and 
left the bay, leaving behind her the young Japan- 
ese refugee and two Ainos. 

There were no trees on the shore, but the 
ground was covered everywhere with ice and 
snow. On the southern coast of the island, hun- 
dreds of walruses spend their time partly in feeding 



48 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

upon the shell-fish, which they dig up from the bot- 
tom with their tusks, and partly in sleeping upon 
the icy shores. Now the hunters all began their 
work, and I, too, went with them to chase the game. 

Our homes were the old caves in the snowy hill, 
and my bed was the bearskin bag. I had plenty 
of provisions at hand, such as salmon, fox, and seal 
meat, but I suffered from one thing, viz., there 
was not dried wood enough to make a fire to cook 
my food. So I often ate the raw, frozen fox or 
sealv flesh, with which the natives provide them- 
selves on a long winter journey. 

One beautiful morning when I went down to 
the shore, I saw some large plaice and haddock 
swimming near the bottom. I had a line, but 
there was no fish-hook. I just tied a small bit of 
meat on one end of the line and threw it into 
the water. The sea was so clear that I could see 
the fish gathered at the place. Soon one of them 
ate the meat. I waited for six or seven minutes 
after the fish swallowed the bait, then slowly 
pulled the line toward the shore and the fish 
came with it. In that manner, I caught them 
every day. 

Time passes like the wind. I had been on the 
island about eleven days, and though I had kept 
my eyes open for a passing ship, not a single sail 
had I ever sighted. Still I kept up good heart and 
ceased not to pray. One day when I was fishing 
as usual, I saw a schooner coming full speed to- 
ward the island. '* Surely, the heavenly Father 



CROSSING KURILE ISLANDS 49 

has not forsaken me ! ** I screamed for joy. With- 
in a few hours she dropped anchor in the bay, 
and the sailors, who were all foreigners, landed. 
Among them I saw one Japanese. I heard 
through him that the ship was a " secret fishing- 
boat ** which belonged to a Norwegian captain. 
The ship came to the island to get some fresh 
water, as well as to hunt seal, sea-otter and foxes. 

When I saw the captain, I asked him, through 
the Japanese interpreter, if he could take me either 
to Kamtchatka or any of the nearest ports in 
America, saying that I would give him a large 
sea-otter skin, five fox skins and the skins of two 
seals which were killed all by myself since I came 
to that island. The captain told me, in a low 
voice, that the ship had no license for fishing or 
hunting on the Arctic water, so he could not enter 
any of the open seaports. But he was willing to 
give me a passage as far as to the Paramushur 
island if I wished to go. I thought if I missed 
that vessel, it was quite uncertain when I should 
meet with another chance to leave the island. So 
I decided to go with him. I took all my things 
and went on board with the captain. 

The sailors did not hunt any game on that 
island, for they knew that there were some Aino 
hunters, under governmental appointment, sta- 
tioned on the shore. They took plenty of fresh 
water and sailed out of the bay early the next 
morning. 

The captain of the vessel was very kind to me 
4 



50 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

in every respect. When I offered him the sea-ot- 
ter and seal skins for my passage, he told me that 
he would not take them unless he paid me. some 
money. He gave me five pounds in English coin, 
some clothing and necessary provisions. 

The sea became quite wild, a raging wave, 
mountain-like, came rolling astern of us ; but this 
time I had no fears whatever, because the ship was 
very strong, unlike that poor junk in which I 
had taken passage previously. 

After sailing about three days toward N. E. N., 
" Land ! " was shouted by one of the sailors. 
Early next morning we saw the Paramushur 
Island on our right. Almost at the same time, in 
the far distance, we saw an immense smoke and 
three stout masts. The captain, upon report of 
the officer, came out of the cabin with a chart in 
his hand and went up to the bridge. He took the 
glass from the chief officer who held it, and after 
taking a long look at the steamer, turned round 
to the officer, and said : 

" I guess that is the Russian cruiser which is 
watching the coast for the secret fishing boat.'* 

The frightened captain summoned " all hands ** ; 
and after the sailors gathered on deck, he gave a 
loud command, " Heave to ! ** and within a few 
minutes, " First life-boat's crew ! " Soon a small 
boat was afloat on the wild Arctic wave. The 
captain, with his kind presents of food and some 
clothing, sent me ashore on that small boat 
manned by three sailors. 



CROSSING KURILE ISLANDS 5 1 

After the boat and crew returned on board ship 
she sailed immediately toward the southeast, 
leaving behind her the poor young fellow on the 
bare island. And though a brave and adventu- 
rous youth, yet when I got the last sight of the 
vessel which was just sailing homeward, many 
tears rolled out from my eyes I 



CHAPTER VI 

ON RUSSIAN SOIL 

The Paramushur Island — so I spelled the name 
after hearing the pronunciation of the Norwegian 
captain — is located on the southwest of Cape Lo- 
patka in Kamchatka. 

I was now landed alone on that island, and 
walked here and there to see if any house or hu- 
man being existed there. But I could scarcely 
find anything as far to the north and east as the 
eye could range from a snowy hill to a sparkling 
iceberg. 

I took snow and rolled it again and again until 
it became a large snowball about five or six feet 
in diameter. I made dozens of them, and I built 
with them a wall. Then I pitched my tent in the 
midst of them. Soon a violent storm set in and 
dark night came down upon me. I took out my 
bearskin bag, and I put my whole body into it, 
an'd had a horrible dreamy sleep under the little 
snow house. 

When I awoke the next morning, I found nu- 
merous tracks of animals all around my snow 
wall ; and just as I found the animals' footprints, 
I remembered that I had forgotten to bring my 
pistol from the schooner. It gave me great sor- 

52 



ON RUSSIAN SOIL 53 

row, as I now had no weapon with which to chase 
game for my daily food, or to defend myself 
against the wild beasts. 

After I had finished my breakfast of a few dried 
fish and some hard sailor biscuits which the cap- 
tain had given me, and had eaten a little snow in 
place of water, I began to follow the tracks. For 
I thought that the tracks might be dogs', and if 
so, they must be owned by some native dwellers. 
But after about three or four hours' walk, I 
missed the animals' footprints on account of the 
violent storm. 

Now the white flakes of snow were falling con- 
tinually ; and I knew not which way to go. While 
I was wandering here and there, my feet sudden- 
ly sank into a drift and my whole body was nearly 
buried in the vast mass of snow. I was in danger 
of death ; yet I never doubted for an instant that 
the same Providence which had brought me from 
my country, and saved me from the mouth of the 
angry bear, and also from the hand of the spiteful 
mountain robber, was still preserving and watching 
over me. And so it was. Just then I was car- 
rying on my back, together with the provisions, a 
long stick which I used to hold up my tent. By 
that long stick, which I had fixed on my back 
transversely, my body was prevented from sinking 
into the depths. So now, by treading with my 
feet to harden the snow, I came to the surface 
again. With most hearty thanksgiving to my 
Father, I followed back on my old tracks. 



54 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

It was a very unpleasant forenoon, snow- 
squalls rushing in rapid succession down the gulf 
and out of the snowy hills. Now I did not know 
which way I must go ; and while I was standing 
on the icy shore, I saw a smoke coming up be- 
tween the two hills in the distance. I felt happy, 
for I had seen an object of hope, like Columbus 
who found the seaweed floating from the Ameri- 
can coast when he was in a state of great discour- 
agement. 

After eating my little dinner, I began to walk 
toward the smoke. This time I went round along 
the seashore, because I was afraid of slipping again 
into a drift of snow. About noon I reached 
the place, where I found quite a number of dwell- 
lings or snow burrows which were built very 
closely together and formed a little village. 

While yet in the distance, I saw half a dozen 
people walking directly towards me, and when 
they came close to me, I could not tell to what 
nationality or race they belonged. The men 
looked hard and bony with a white-brown com- 
plexion, blue eyes, and dark-brown hair. 

" Zurastway ! zurastway ! *' they shouted to me. 

I did not understand what they meant, but I 
imagined that it must be their salutation to a 
stranger. So I repeated it after them. " Zurast- 
way ! zurastway ! ** This I learned afterward from 
a native, meant " Welcome " or ** Good-day." 

When I repeated thenative word, they laughed 
at me with true savage contempt ; but when they 



ON RUSSIAN SOIL 55 

noticed my long stick, the tent holder which 
looked so much like a spear, they changed their 
tone. 

I could not speak the native language, so they 
simply surrounded me talking to each other and 
laughing. After they had closely examined me, 
an elderly man with a long black garment came 
forward and said something which I could not 
understand ; then he took me to his dwelling in 
a snow burrow. 

The snow house was made out of stone and the 
bones of animals. It consisted of two round 
shaped huts ; the smaller one was the entrance 
and was used as a barn ; the larger one was the 
main dwelling-place. Between these two, there 
was a narrow tunnel just large enough for a man 
to creep through. On the outside these houses 
were all covered with snow and ice. 

When I entered the snow burrow, the old man 
who had lead me in began to talk with me in 
broken Japanese. He said that he was a priest 
of a Greek church in Moscow who came on a 
missionary tour once every year through these 
regions. He told me very kindly that I could 
stay in that house; and soon we became good 
friends. 

One day the old priest said that he was going to 
visit all the native families. He bade me follow 
after him with the " holy box " which contained 
the images of Mother and Child, small round cakes, 
a jug full of water, a rosary, matches and candles, 



S6 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

etc. I carried the box and followed after the 
priest who performed peculiar religious ceremo- 
nies with each family. I had a good opportunity 
to observe the native manners and customs very 
closely. 

In one of the snow houses, I saw a man who 
was entirely different from the ordinary natives. 
"What nation do you belong to?" I asked. 
The man told me that he was an American sailor 
named " Jack." His ship had been wrecked on 
the coast, and he was the only sailor saved ; and 
about a year ago he had arrived at that island in 
a small boat which belonged to the old ship. But 
all the native islanders said that he was a bad man 
who had been banished to that island from " Me- 
rika." So they gave him very little sympathy ; 
yet " Jack " seemed to enjoy the island life. 

Among these people, child marriage was still 
practised. In one family I saw a boy not older 
than eleven or twelve who had a little baby wife 
about nine or ten years old. I did not find very 
many old men or old women. One of the natives 
told me, mostly by gesture, that when the winter 
season begins, only the young people retire to 
their burrows, and the very old folks are generally 
left alone in their old summer cottages, either to 
starve or to be eaten by the hungry beasts. 

Among them there was no writing of any sort, 
neither could they count beyond six or seven. So 
they did not know their own or their children's 
ages. 



On r vssian soil 5 7 

Now my business was not like that of the Arctic 
explorers who seek after a fortune or the advance- 
ment of science, but " On to America ** was my 
only thought. So I could no longer stay on that 
island. I was right sorry, however, to leave the 
comfortable native house, for the snow outside 
was drifting with the gale like a violent ocean 
wave. 

The Russian priest had done his work, and was 
trying to leave the island for Petropaulovsk, the 
only open port in Kamtchatka. He told me that 
he could accompany me to the mainland, if I 
wanted to go. So we packed all our things and 
waited for the chance of a ship passage. 

One moonlight night we heard a great shouting 
of men away beyond the snowy hill. The priest 
and I took our lightest sledges, each of which was 
drawn by two natives ; for our sledge-dogs were 
gone and we could not find them. 

When we reached the place, we saw a company 
of five or six men chasing or rather fighting with 
a large walrus on the half-frozen shore. In a 
minute or two, one man made a feint of thrusting 
a spear at the right side, and, as the animal turned 
toward the threatened attack, another hunter gave 
him the death wound ; and the giant walrus fell 
into the hands of his pursuers. After the bloody 
work was over we went near to the men, and the 
priest talked with them a long time. 

The company were the sailors of a whale-ship 
which was anchored in the bay. The next morn- 



58 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

ing, the old Russian priest went on board to see 
the captain ; and on his return, with happy, smil- 
ing face, he told me that the shipmaster had prom- 
ised him to take us as far as Petropaulovsk. 

We bound together all our things, and the next 
morning we left our snow burrow. We were 
surrounded by the people who came to see our 
departure and to say farewell. 

My friend " Jack," the wrecked American 
sailor, kindly presented me an old rifle for my pro- 
tection. I gave him a little silver watch for our 
friendship and memory. 

The natives came to the priest one by one with 
tears in their eyes, and he put his arms around 
their necks and kissed them. After he had done 
this to nearly all of the natives, he made a touch- 
ing prayer. We then embarked and the ship 
weighed anchor and sailed away towards the 
northeast. 



CHAPTER VII 

SENT BACK TO JAPAN 

Our good ship carried us safely to the port in 
Kamtchatka. It was very near daybreak. The 
moon and the dawning sunh'ght, mingling to- 
gether, made the white sparkling ice cliffs along 
the shore more glittering than a solid diamond 
hill, as Milton imagined it. By its contrasted 
brightness, we saw clearly the harbor's indigo 
horizon, and we entered the port without calling 
a pilot. 

The wind was cold, and every drop of the sea- 
water that came upon the deck froze immedi- 
ately. The ironwork around the vessel became 
so cold in this severe weather that, if we touched 
it with bare hands, it would fasten them tightly, 
and often burn them or take the skin off, as when 
we put our fingers on a red-hot iron poker. 

Some time before the ship entered the port, 
our Russian monk became dangerously ill. When 
she entered port, the sick priest, the captain and 
I went on shore, and the sick man, accompanied 
by the captain, was taken to a military hospital 
on a reindeer sledge. 

59 



6o A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

At that time my appearance must have been 
very strange to the natives. For I wore a heavy 
coat, cap and gloves made of deerskin ; under- 
clothing and shoes of sealskin, and heavy trousers 
of bearskin. Moreover, the provision-bag, to- 
gether with the tent and its holder, were slung 
over my back, and the old rifle which my friend 
** Jack ** had given me was carried across my 
shoulder. 

When I came near to the town I saw a large 
building which looked much like a soldiers' home. 
As I approached the house, I saw a dignified 
officer hurrying toward me. When he came near, 
he said to me something like this : " Koji pai 
joss ? '* The officer repeated the same word again 
and again ; but of course I could not understand 
it. He then summoned another officer who looked 
much like a soldier. They motioned me to fol- 
low them, which I did, and I was taken to a Jap- 
anese interpreter's house. ** Koji pai joss ? " 
Where did you come from? the officer asked 
me again. I told him that I came from Yezo 
Island, and was only a common traveller. But 
it seemed to me that he did not believe my 
words. 

** Why, then, do you carry such a rifle and 
spear ? " said the officer. " You are indeed a very 
doubtful man. You must be either a spy or a 
wrecked pirate ! " 

" Oh, no, no, sir ! " I said, in my excitement. 

Then the officer asked me again : " Have 



SENT BA CK TO JAPAN 6 1 

you any passport signed by your own govern- 
ment ? " 

" No, sir, I have not," was my answer. 

Now the officer could only shake his head ; and 
afterward he said something like this very em- 
phatically : " Pai-joe swai-mister ! " — (You must go 
back to your own country !) 

The officer gave a strict command to the inter- 
preter, and committed me to his hands until fur- 
ther notice. 

After I came to the house of the interpreter, I 
thought that, if I should tell the whole story and 
ask his friendly sympathy, perhaps he would let 
me go. I told him about my plan of going to 
America by crossing the Arctic regions. The 
story, however, terrified him a great deal. He 
told me that he never heard of any man who had 
tried such an expedition before. More than once 
he told me that it was quite impossible to go 
through such a great, snowy country ; not only 
on account of the difficulty of getting provisions, 
but because of the wild animals, such as white 
bears and starving wolves, that would kill me and 
eat me up. 

The next day an official order came, saying 
that I must leave the country as soon as there 
was a chance of a passage. The interpreter told 
me that there was just a chance that I could go 
on a whaling ship which would sail for Hakodate, 
the chief seaport of Yezo Island. He gave me a 
letter addressed to the captain, and urged me to 



62 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

go home directly on that ship. I could not help 
it ; so I obeyed him. A few days after I em- 
barked, the Russian vessel spread her white sails 
and left the port. 

Along the near coast of Yezo Island we saw 
unnumbered whales that appeared off the lar- 
board bow, first throwing up glittering fountains 
of spray, then rolling their great, glossy black 
backs upward. They followed after our ship in 
full strength. It seemed as though they were 
racing with us. The captain ordered his men to 
be ready to launch the boat at a moment's order. 
He then let one of the crew throw a dynamite 
bomb. It was done, and struck right on the head 
of one of the largest whales. The gallant sailors 
set out in the boat with sharp harpoons in their 
hands. The struggling whale now became quite 
mad, diving into the depths, and jumping upon 
the surface of the water. The men followed him, 
paying out the long rope attached to the har- 
poon with which they had stabbed him. At last, 
his strength was exhausted. The sailors towed 
the game back to their ship, cut it into many 
pieces, and took oil from it by boiling it in a large, 
iron pot. 

We spread our sails again and went for- 
ward through a terrible storm. The sea became 
very surgeful ; still the ship was so large that we 
put our trust in her, and had no feeling of danger. 

As we entered the inland sea, the gale died 
away and the water became as tranquil as oil. 



SENT BA CK TO JAPAN 63 

The pilot-boat came, and the ship was towed into 
the harbor of Hakodate. 

Although we arrived there in the early morn- 
ing, and I was set free, I waited until dark before 
landing; for, my outward appearance being so 
strange, I thought the people might wonder at 
me as in the previous port. 

As soon as I landed I went into a second-hand 
store and bought a suit of ordinary clothing and 
changed it for my old skin garments. I then let 
dijinriki man draw me to a hotel. I enjoyed my 
square meal and warm, comfortable bed for the 
first time since I left my father's house. 

The next morning, while yet I was in bed, re- 
calling my unsuccessful adventure, I sunk into 
deep sorrow. In bed, as well as in the parlor, I 
had many struggles with myself as to what 
course I should take, whether I should go home 
or try to go to America once more. 

One day, while I was walking on the busy 
street of Hakodate, " Young master ! young 
master ! " was exclaimed from behind me ; and 
when I turned, I found a man who had been my 
aunt's old house servant many years before. I 
was very glad to find my man in such a remote 
island. After he heard of my stopping-place, he 
told me it was too expensive for me to stay in 
such a big hotel, and advised me to leave there 
and abide with him in his house. 

With full confidence in the old servant's kind 
offer, I moved to his house. But soon after I 



64 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

came to live with him, I found that his former 
character had wholly changed, and that he had 
become a drunkard and a gambler. 

I visited one day a village near the town and 
spent the night there. When I came home the 
next day, the doors were all closed and locked, 
and I could not get in. I went to the neighbor's, 
and asked about the matter. The man told me 
that my mate had carried away everything and 
returned the house-key to its owner and was gone. 
I was greatly surprised. I got a key from the 
owner, and went inside, and there I found that 
my money and clothing were all gone, stolen by 
that miserable fellow ! My manuscript as well as 
the more valuable diary were taken away with 
the other things. And largely on that account, 
I have not been able to give the exact date of my 
early adventures in these chapters. " Confidence 
in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a 
broken tooth, and a foot out of joint.** 

Very suddenly I became a poor man with none 
to help me but my Father in heaven. I learned 
more and more that worldly riches are not .reli- 
able ; but that laying up our treasures in heaven 
is the best thing. For though my old servant 
stole all my earthly property, yet he could not 
take away my inner faith and devotion which are 
truly the source of a man*s outward success. 
Now the more I saw of the condition of this man 
and of the people in general, the more I longed 
to be able to bring light into my native land 



SENT BACK TO JAPAN 65 

rather than to the simple-minded Aino race alone. 
But it was a serious question. 

The poor unfortunate lad did not know what to 
do except to roam around the town. One day, 
climbing up aimlessly to the city park, which was 
situated on a high hill, and taking a bird's-eye 
view of the landscape, I saw more than a dozen 
sailing ships and steamers floating in the harbor. 
While I was watching them, a new idea came to 
me. " I wonder how a traveller can cross the wide 
ocean and visit foreign countries ? ** I asked my- 
self. " Of course, by a ship's passage. But the 
vessel itself cannot sail anywhere unless there are 
men on board. Then there must be some chance 
for me to go abroad if I become one of her crew. 
Though now all my things are stolen and I have 
become the poorest man in the world, yet I must 
not give up my intense desire of visiting^ the 
wonderful country, America," I answered my- 
self. 

Truly, meeting with such obstacles, I suppose 
nine out of ten young men would give up hope. 
Not only so, but demoralization would follow; 
and a robust young fellow would soon be beaten 
by it, and sink into the lowest society to his 
ruin. I came to understand that there is no 
journey upon this earth that a man may not make 
if he sets his heart upon it. There are no mount- 
ains he may not climb ; there are no living 
creatures he cannot control, and there is nothing 
save the impossible that he cannot do. Then, if 
S 



66 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

we work and wait, and are single-minded, we shall 
sooner or later reach our mark. 

'* Sail on ; we've men in this great age 
Now rich who once were poor. 
Why will you fret and waste your time ? 
Up, man 1 to play your part," 

Finally, I determined to come to America as a 
seaman. But there was no chance in Hakodate 
as in Yokohama, the chief open seaport of the 
empire. I wanted now to go to that port. But 
ah, how could I cross the sea with an empty 
purse ? 

A few days afterward, I went to see a friend 
who was a purser in a large mail steamship which 
runs between Hakodate and Yokohama. The 
ship was lying in the harbor, and my friend stayed 
at a hotel. When I met him, I told him about 
my condition, and asked him to take me to Yoko- 
hama. The purser told me that it was a rule of 
the ship not to convey any passenger unless he 
paid the full fare, but if I could stay in his own 
cabin without showing myself to the captain till 
the ship got into the harbor, he would take me 
very willingly. I thanked my friend, and the 
same night I embarked on the big steamer. 

Early the next morning after the deep sounding 
blast of three steam whistles, the mighty machine 
began its work, and with every movement the 
vessel went nearer to the happy home-land. 

" Where there 's a will there 's a way." It was 



SENT BACK TO JAPAN 67 

astonishing to see that whatever I had planned, I 
put immediately into execution, and generally 
succeeded with it. Only a few days ago I was 
only a disappointed wanderer, but was now voy- 
aging to Yokohama on a mail steamer. A man 
can do almost everything if he has thought and 
energy to execute it. 

After the ship arrived in port, my friend took 
me to his residence and kindly told me that if I 
wanted to go to America, in the first place, I 
must study the English language. He gave me 
some money, and promised to send me more when- 
ever I wanted ; then he put me in the Yokohama 
English and Japanese Institute where I took my 
first lessons in a. foreign language. 

Money, as well as an easy life, is a source of 
many temptations. Now I found money always 
in my pocket, which was given me by my friend. 
Moreover, I lived in such a large, bustling city with 
so many luxurious friends, that little by little, my 
heart was corrupted. At last I became a member 
of a young sporting men's club, for which I was 
severely reproved by my faithful friend. 

Indeed, liberty, without a true religious faith, is 
a dangerous thing for a young man. The desire 
to enjoy worldly pleasure and the tastes of a 
gentleman are not a very good stock to begin life 
with. Although I knew that there is my Father 
in heaven, yet I had never heard any direct teach- 
ings of him through his inspired Book. Thus my 
inner foundation was not very strong ; the more I 



68 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

looked back upon myself, the more I craved a 
higher education. 

One vacation day, while I was at my friend's 
house, there occurred a violent political outbreak 
at the Bonin Islands. A well-known Japanese 
steamship company was now preparing to send a 
ship to those islands by order of the government. 
Thereupon, my friend, the purser, highly rec- 
ommended me to that steamship company, and 
I was officially appointed as an assistant paymaster 
on the ship which was to sail for the Bonin 
Islands. 

Soon the ship weighed anchor and went from 
the harbor toward the south, conveying the gov- 
ernment officers and men, together with the young 
wanderer. • 



CHAPTER Vin 

WANDERING ON THE SOUTH SEA 

The Bonin Islands lying in the Pacific extend 
in a direction nearly north and south, between the 
latitudes of 26° 30'' and 27° 4^' north, the centre 
line of the group being the longitude about 142° 
i^" east. The group consists of three large islands, 
Peel, Buckland and Stapleton, or rather, in the 
native names, Father, Mother and Brother. These 
isles were known to the Japanese at a period as 
far back as 1675, and were described by them 
under the name of Bunin Shima, signifying " un- 
inhabited island," whence the English term Bonin. 

The splendid Father Island rises like a sea- 
nymph's castle out of the great deep. The head- 
land and detached rocks have been thrown by 
former convulsions of nature into various odd 
forms, such as towers, fortresses, tunnels and 
strange animals. The noble mountain with its 
thick forest and gleaming cascades and the deep 
valleys with their rich growth of tropical vege- 
tation, are picturesque and beautiful beyond 
description. 

Along the coast, whales are often found, also 
huge crawfish, enormous shells, and an abundance 
of green turtles. Occasionally, one may find on 

69 



70 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

these islands a gigantic turtle about twelve or 
thirteen feet in diameter. Green turtles are to the 
native islanders what cattle and sheep are to a 
New England farmer. The natives catch the 
turtles alive, and feed them in a large pond in 
their own yards ; generally the ships which come 
to the island obtain large supplies of them. 

Without any special danger on our voyage, we 
reached the Peel or Father Island. As soon as 
we came to the mouth of the harbor, two canoes 
appeared, and we were boarded by a native pilot. 
We moved on slowly to an anchorage which was 
within a hundred feet of the northern shore, in a 
position completely landlocked, and sheltered 
from every wind. 

The trouble in the Bonin Islands sprang from 
the lack of provisions. Some time before, when 
two or three whale ships had entered the port for 
Avater and other supplies, the islanders had sold 
all their garden produce, together with the rice 
and corn imported from the motherland. After 
these ships had departed, the natives found a 
painful scarcity of provisions for themselves. So 
they asked the governor of the island to provide 
them with rice and corn which had been stored 
up for use during a possible famine. The request, 
however, was refused. Then the people went 
with weapons and attacked the government 
office, broke open its storehouse and carried away 
the rice. When we entered the harbor, the chief 
leaders were put aboard our vessel, and we were 



WANDERING ON THE SOUTH SEA 71 

ordered by the governor to convey them to 
Tokyo. 

One fine moonlight night, while I was walking 
along the sandy beach, I found a small canoe 
which was made of the hollowed trunk of a tree. 
Inside of it was a sail, two oars and a small fresh- 
water tank or barrel. I did not know to whom 
the canoe belonged, so I took off my shoes and 
left them on the sand where the boat lay, so that 
when its owner came he might know that I had 
borrowed the canoe just for a few hours. Then 
I launched it and set sail. I did not understand 
how to manage the native canoe, but the gentle 
wind which blew from the land side carried my 
boat swiftly outside of the harbor. I said to my- 
self, with the utmost complaisance : " Surely, a man 
can do everything without any previous practice ! " 
I thought I was a pretty good sailor to manage 
a sailing boat without previous trial. I did not 
think that it was not dependent upon my own 
skill, but was carried on by the ebb-tide and a 
favorable breeze. 

When my canoe was far from the land, the 
moon disappeared, and I could hardly see any- 
thing but the twinkling stars. I was a little tired, 
so I attempted to sail back toward the shore. 
But I could not manage the sail, for the wind 
was now in the opposite direction. I took down 
the sail, and tried with all my might to row the 
canoe back toward the port, but I could not move 
it, for the current was too strong. I was now at 



.1 



72 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

the mercy of the waves, and at last I was drifted 
to a small isle not far away from Peel Island. 

I was miserably cast upon a desolate isle, and 
while I was wandering along the shore, the night 
was past. Feeling very hungry, I walked here 
and there to see if I could find anything that I 
could eat. Along the beach I found some large 
eggs of the turtle. I ate three or four of them 
raw. After I was through my breakfast, I 
launched my canoe again, and tried to sail toward 
Peel Island. -But soon the wind's direction was 
changed, and it blew pretty fresh ; the sea became 
so rough that I was obliged to return to the 
shore. 

Although there were plenty of goats, hogs and 
turtles, yet I had no weapon to hunt any of them 
for my sustenance. At last, I found out a way 
to catch the turtle. I dug out a deep hole on 
the sandy shore with the little mast of the canoe ; 
I put some broken eggs on the sand near the 
hole, and then, hiding myself in the pit, I waited 
until the turtle came to eat the bait. As soon as 
the animal came, I caught it by the tail, then 
with both hands turned it upside down so that 
it could not escape. 

I dressed the game with my pocket-knife. At 
that time I smoked tobacco, so there were always 
matches in my pocket. I made a nice fire and 
cooked the meat, but the ashes and sand got all 
over it, and it was not very good. The next day 
I devised a new plan for cooking. With a sharp 



WANDERING ON THE SOUTH SEA 73 

stone I made a hole in a rock about the size of a 
small kettle. I filled this with seawater, and put 
my meat into it. Then I made a big fire and 
placed in it a half dozen small stones. When they 
became red hot, I took them out one by one with 
two dried sticks, and threw them into my newly 
invented kettle. Within a few minutes the meat 
was nicely cooked and the flavor was good, be- 
cause it was boiled with salt water. 

The next day the sea was still rough, so I was 
obliged to stay on that island. Now, I gathered 
some grass and branches of trees, and made a 
little home for myself. One morning, the morn- 
ing of the seventh day, I saw a ship coming to- 
ward the island. " I am to be rescued at last ! ** I 
exclaimed joyously. The minutes seemed hours, 
the hours, days ; and when the vessel came near, 
I found that it was my ship. It was very doubt- 
ful, however, whether the ship was coming to the 
island to save me or whether she was sailing home- 
ward. One o'clock ! two o'clock passed ! and 
when she came close to my island, she imme- 
diately turned her bow toward N. N. W., that is, 
directly towards the home water. I gathered 
dried leaves and wood, and I made a big fire for 
a signal ; I also shouted to her for help, waving my 
hands and coat. But they did not take any notice 
of me, and went away. 

My heart was almost broken, and while I was 
struggling with myself in tears, the ship disap- 
peared artd my hope was dead ! Yet I could not sit 



74 ^ JAPANESE CRUSOE 

down and wait for my death. I must try to save 
myself in some way or other. In the afternoon, 
the wind abated, so I launched my native boat, 
and rowed toward Peel Island. 

Toward evening, while I was wandering on the 
sea, I saw a man in a canoe, looking for green 
turtles with his long harpoon. I cried to him for 
help. " O que qereis? ** the man shouted back to 
me ; but I could not understand his language. So 
I took out a silver dollar from my pocket, and 
held it in one hand, while with the other I pointed 
to myself, then toward the land, thus signifying 
that if he would take me to the port, I would give 
him that dollar. 

Soon the man came close to my canoe, tied it to 
his own boat, and then rowed the two together to 
the shore. He told me in his broken English that 
he was a wrecked Portuguese sailor who had been 
over ten years on the island, and that he lived by 
fishing green turtles. About four or five hours 
after we started the old fisherman whispered to 
me, " O ! Johoney, you'd better hide yourself 
down in the canoe. A big turtle coming ! I will 
kiirm, you see.'* 

On looking some distance away, I saw the ani- 
mal with its big round back shell and its four feet 
and a large round head, swimming toward us. I 
was greatly frightened. The man bade me again 
lie down and hide myself in the canoe, but through 
curiosity, I put up my face on the gunwale, just 
enough to see Ijow he would kill the big turtle. 



WANDERING ON THE SOUTH SEA 75 

The old man kept in position with his steel 
harpoon, waiting simply for the right distance. 
Just about one minute before he was to throw his 
weapon, a human voice was suddenly heard, 

" Look out ! here I am ! ** 

I jumped immediately toward the old man and 
took away his harpoon. " Who art thou ? ** I 
cried to the man in the water. Then, I found that 
the supposed turtle was my best friend, the kind- 
hearted host of my cottage. I stretched out my 
hands and helped him to climb into our canoe. 

The old fisherman gaped upon him in astonish- 
ment. 

" Pois sim ! Little more ye dead man," he 
said to my host, showing him the big, two-edged 
sharp harpoon. 

I gave the fisherman one dollar, as I promised 
him before, and let him go. 

Now, my host rowed the canoe. While we were 
on the way, he told me that he had seen some 
one on the opposite little island, and also a canoe 
along the shore, and thought it must be myself 
with his missing canoe. Thereupon, he took a 
large, round-shaped buoy which was made of cork ; 
he fixed it upon his back and swam out expecting to 
come and deliver me ; and that was how he came 
into danger. 

We soon came to the harbor and landed at the 
foot of his island home. The next day I went 
on board of a Japanese schooner which was lying 
in the harbor. There I heard from the captain 



76 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

of that vessel that, during my absence, the officers 
of my ship searched for me all over the island and 
water. At last they found my hat and shoes on 
the beach. The officers thought that while was 
swimming I had met death by drowning. They 
kindly performed a religious ceremony in behalf of 
the drowned man, and the ship sailed away from 
the island. The captain of the schooner told me 
also that he was going to Ponape and the Liukiu 
Islands, then he would return directly home. Up- 
on my request he promised to give me a free pas- 
sage as far as Yokohama. Four days after I went 
on board, the ship left the Bonin Islands, and sailed 
away in the direction S. S. E. 

After seventeen days of quiet sailing, we reached 
Ponape Island, one of the Caroline group. The 
island is of volcanic formation, having mountains 
2,858 feet in height. On going nearer, we saw a 
white sand beach extending for miles like a field 
of daisies or an unexpected snow field in the trop- 
ics. The flora of Ponape is very rich. The 
splendid jungle of ivory and sago palms, the 
beautiful ferns at the base of the mountains, and 
the most curious mangrove trees growing in the 
salt water along the shore, make the island most 
picturesque and garden-like. 

While the ship was in port, one of the ship's 
officers and I went ashore and stayed in a native 
house, where we were very hospitably treated both 
by the family and the neighbors. I had always 
thought the South Sea Islanders were a most bar- 



WANDERING ON THE SOUTH SEA 77 

barous race, cruel and warlike, and fond of eating 
human flesh, but I found that they were as gentle 
as innocent children, and that human nature in 
the South Sea Isles in very much the same as it is 
elsewhere. The only trouble there is the presence 
and influence of vagrant foreigners. The majority 
of them are wrecked sailors and poor adventurers 
whose characters set at defiance all religious and 
moral laws. They are disliked by the natives, just 
as the natives are disliked by us. 

The native islanders, excepting a few, were 
naked, — covered simply around the loins with 
some kind of dried grass, or a piece of mat. Once 
I saw a worthy American, named " Jame,** about 
forty years of age, walking with a native wife of 
twenty springs or so. He wore a suit of fine Eu- 
ropean clothes, and was walking arm in arm with 
the naked native woman. The scene impressed 
me as though a civilized Adam were walking with 
the Eve of the first creation. 

Our captain was through with his trading, and 
now the sailing order was given. The officers and 
crew were all on board, except the purser's clerk. 
We waited for him two days ; but he did not come. 
The captain informed the governor about him, 
and we were now busy preparing for our long 
voyage. 

The next day I was appointed by the captain 
to fill the place of the missing officer. We then 
spread our sails and departed toward the north- 
west, expecting to reach the Liukiu Islands. 



CHAPTER IX 

AT THE LIUKIU ISLANDS 

We were favored by the southwest trade-wind, 
and had a delightful run of twenty days ; and with 
nothing to interrupt the uniformity of sea life we 
entered Port Napa in Loochoo Island. 

The islands known as the Liukiu group are said 
to be thirty-six in number. They lie between 24® 
10' and 28^ 40' north latitude, and 127^ and 129^ 
east longitude. Formerly these islands were 
ruled by a king who paid an annual tribute both 
to Japan and to China. But in 1878 the whole 
island kingdom was annexed to Japan. 

The Loochoo, where Port Napa and the capi- 
tal are situated, is about sixty miles in length, 
from north to south, with a varying breadth of 
from five to ten miles. It has a great variety of 
scenery. The entire land is covered with the 
richest vegetation of both tropical and temperate 
climates. The harbor which we entered was a 
long, narrow inlet, in an amphitheatre of rocky 
hills, which were covered with picturesque groves 
of pine. The old ruins of stone wall and castle 
stood on the northern end like a natural wharf. 
Several fishing junks and one or two small coast- 
inef steamers were at anchor behind it. 

78 



A T THE LIUKIU ISLANDS 



79 



By permission of our captain, two other young 
officers and I went on shore, and tried to explore 
the interior of the island. We hired a native 
guide, a young fellow, and started toward the 
north with two hunting dogs. In the capital we 
visited the magnificent stone castle which was 
built, so I was told, by Tametomo, a Japanese 
hero who had conquered the kingdom during the 
tenth century, and founded the family of Liukiu 
kings. As we went farther from the capital to- 
ward the northeast, the country became more 
beautiful and fertile. The valleys and hillsides 
were cultivated with care, and the hills were 
crowned with evergreen forests of bamboo, pine, 
banana trees, palms, and vines of all sorts. 

The northern part of the island abounds in 
marshy thickets and hills overgrown with dense 
woodland, and infested with wild boars and poi- 
sonous snakes. After two days of hard journey, 
we came near the little village of Tomie. On the 
way, while we were walking through the thick 
forest, a strange barking of our dogs a short dis- 
tance away, led us to turn our feet in that direc- 
tion. When we came near the place, our guide 
went forward, and in a few minutes exclaimed, 
"Oh, help me! help! help!'' and fell to the 
ground. 

The poor guide was bitten on his face by a 
poisonous snake which had been chased by our 
dogs and had escaped into a tree-top, and when 
the man came near, the snake dropped down from 



8o A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

the tree right into his face, and had bitten him. 
Stones were thrown at the snake and our gallant 
dogs pursued him, and took revenge for their 
injured master. 

The wounded native said, ** I pray you, please 
bite my cheek that was bitten by the snake. I 
will get better soon." But neither of us had 
courage to do it. 

Then he took a pocket-knife and cut away a 

small portion of the flesh, put a little mud on it 

and covered it with a cloth. Some of us wanted 

to go farther, but the poor guide told us that he 

felt very sick, and unable to proceed. We, too, 

were afraid to go any farther. So we returned 

by the same road to Port Napa, then to the 

ship. 

It was very near January. Now I had to buy 

the things needed for our New Year festival, as it 

was my duty to purchase all ship provisions. But 

I did not know anything about the management, 

so I asked our ship-cook about it. 

"Yes, my young officer, the festival is the 
great occasion of the year. I want you to buy 
big things for us this time." 

" But the captain will not permit us to spend 
much money for it," I said to the cook. 

" Never mind the expense ; the ship company 
is large enough to do that, I *m sure," said the cook 
very flatteringly, and he added : " Though I am 
a first-class cook, yet without good materials, I 
cannot show my best hand ; and how ashamed I 



A T THE LIUKIU ISLANDS 8 1 

shall be when the officers complain that I am a 
poor cook ! ** 

Our captain and the purser were not on board, 
so all things were under the direction of our chief 
officer. Soon the old ship-cook was accompanied 
by me to the shore to buy the things for our New 
Year's festival. In the market, I gave him per- 
fect freedom to order whatever he needed. While 
I was staying in a tea-house, the cook went all 
round the market and bought game, fish, meat, 
vegetables, fruits, wine and a great many other 
things and returned to the ship. 

On the next day, as it was the first day of 
January, we had a New Year's dinner in grand 
style, at which the officers and men were sur- 
prised, and our old ship-cook was praised by 
all. 

Two or three days after, when the ship was pre- 
paring to sail from the port, the storekeepers who 
had sold us the articles of food for the New Year 
festival, came on board with their bills. I found 
the total sum was a little over one hundred yen, or 
about fifty dollars. My heart was now greatly 
troubled, because I did not mean to spend so 
much money for the one occasion. But it was too 
late. The only thing was to pay the cash. I 
went to the chief officer's cabin and showed him 
the bills; for the captain and purser were still 
absent. 

" Over one hundred yen ? " the chief officer ex- 
claimed. 
6 



82 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

" Yes, the men are just waiting for your pay- 
ment, sir! " 

" What a careless fellow you are ! It is the 
ship's law not to spend more than fifty cents for 
each man*s rations for one day. The last year, we 
spent about thirty yen all together. Here I give 
you thirty, and for the remainder of the payment 
the ship has nothing to do," the officer said. 

" But I was advised by our ship-cook ; and you 
have had a fine dinner, too, and that was nothing 
but the exact cost. I want you now to pay the 
full bill, sir,'* I replied in the humblest manner 
possible. 

" Cook ! what do I care for the cook ? Being the 
paymaster-clerk, you yourself must have the re- 
sponsibility of that. If I go by the ship's law and 
judge the case, I shall have to punish you, young 



man." 



"What do you mean? Have you any right to 
punish me?" 

" Yes, yes, unquestionably ! I have full power 
to punish you, if I want to." 

" Do n*t threaten me in that way any more ; but 
do tell me how you would punish me." 

" Foolish fellow ! do n't forget that I have the 
power to discharge you right now at this island," 
the old sailor snarled to me. 

" Discharge ? Could you let me go away now ? " 
I asked him. 

At that moment I made up my mind to leave 
the ship ; for I knew that in Port Napa there were 



A T THE LIUKIU ISLANDS Z^ 

many chances either to return to Yokohoma, or 
go to China, where I could more easily find ships 
crossing the Pacific to America. 

" Certainly I can ! Do you want me to do 
so ? ** the officer said, because he believed that I 
would never leave the ship in such a remote island. 

" All right, sir ! From this day, then, I will be 
free from all my ship's duties. Give my regards 
to the captain and the others ; and I say now a 
long good-bye to you, my friend." 

I summoned immediately the native boat which 
was tied on the ship's side ; I jumped into it and 
was rapidly conveyed from the vessel. 

When I got ashore I went into a native friend's 
house, and borrowed a saddled pony, and rode to 
the capital of the island, Shiri, expecting to hide 
myself in that city, for I thought that if the cap- 
tain heard the news, he would send men after me, 
and they would take me back to the ship again. 

The Liukiu pony was small, but exceedingly 
spirited, and, for a stranger, very hard to manage. 
Though I had had no experience in riding a horse, 
yet I tried it, because I was in a great hurry. 
The pony walked very slow, as though he was not 
very well satisfied with an unskilful rider on his 
back. I was not very well satisfied with him 
either ; so I cut a small branch of a tree and used 
it for a whip. The animal now began to gallop, 
plunging with untiring energy and some temper. 
When I came near the big market-place where a 
crowd of natives, men, women and children were 



84 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

gathered, I wanted to stop my pony ; I drew back 
the rein very hard. Then the horse began to run 
faster than ever, and the more I drew back the 
bridle, the more he galloped like a mad animal. 
He went through the market-place in that way, 
dashing down several small stalls, and knocking 
down the men and women and injuring them 
terribly. 

When my pony went through the street, I saw 
two men pursuing me. I was caught by them 
and taken to a police station. The officer asked 
my name and occupation, but I did not tell him 
my own name, for if I should, he might send me 
back to the old ship. I knew also the officer 
would fine me for injuring the people. So, while 
I was in the waiting-room, I put all my paper 
money into the lining of my hat, for as I was a 
helpless wanderer in a strange island, I could not 
pay all my money to the officer. 

When I was summoned again to the office, I 
was sentenced to pay twenty yens fine, or in case 
I could not pay the fine, I must take two months 
hard labor. 

After staying in the station-house two days, a 
native merchant came to the office to supply the 
provisions. When he looked at me, he wondered 
about me, because I was his best customer when 
I was on board ship. The man told me that, 
after I left the ship, the captain and the officers 
searched after me all over the town, but no one 
had any idea that I was in a prison-house. With 



A T THE LIUKIU ISLANDS 85 

great disappointment, they sailed away from the 
port. 

The next day the native merchant came again 
and paid my fine to the officer and delivered me 
from the prison. He told me that my old ship- 
cook left the sum of fifty yen in his hand and bade 
him give me that money when he should meet 
me after the vessel had sailed away, for I quit my 
office and the ship mostly for his sake. 

While I was in the town of Napa there were 
many chances to go to the home-land, but I was 
not in haste to return. For I had an idea of 
visiting the Chinese empire to study the genuine 
philosophy of Confucius and also to observe the 
real heathen customs before leaving my Oriental 
home for America. 

One day a friend came and told me that a 
native junk was going to Ning-Po, China. I went 
with him to the ship and arranged with the ship- 
master to go as a passenger. 

Early the next morning, the old-fashioned junk 
stretched her queer sail and moved away toward 
the ocean ; and in the course of a few hours Liu- 
kiu sank beneath the horizon, and the ship held 
on her way, west by north. 

The sea between Japan and China is very wild 
throughout the year. The giant waves roll like 
mountains and the swift current passes like a 
great wind. One evening, when there was a 
dense fog, with frequent showers of rain, the ship 
struck upon a hidden coral reef, and broke the 



86 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

m 

helm. The wind was blowing fresh, the sea was 
running briskly, and the water rushed into the ship 
immensely. The captain ordered the crew to 
throw away all the ship's cargo except some few 
provisions, so that the junk might float until we 
could get ashore. 

Early the next morning, when the fog cleared 
away, we found that we were in a bay of a small 
isle which is near the coast of China. We were 
all saved. I believed more and more that my 
life was guided by the unseen hand of our 
Father. 

We dropped anchor, and landed in a small boat. 
We were busy at work, cutting down trees to 
fix the helm, and building a hut to rest in, while 
some of us were trying to fish for our sustenance. 

That night, after a day of hard labor, we all 
retired, but about midnight I was awakened by 
a great noise of men. Soon I found that we were 
surrounded by a half dozen Chinamen whose 
appearance was more like a company of pirates. 

The men came on a small boat, each one armed 
with a weapon. They arrested our shipmaster, 
and asked several questions of him. When they 
came to understand that we were honest Liukiu 
sailors, they released the captain. The head man 
of the Chinese party told us that, a few days 
before, a sailing vessel was robbed by pirates on 
the near coast of that island, so the steamer was 
sent by the authorities to search for the pirate ship. 
When the officers of the Chinese cruiser saw our 



A T THE LIUKIU ISLANDS 87 

junk entering the bay of that island, they thought 
that we were the pirates, so they hid themselves 
on the back side of the isle and waited until 
night, so that they might attack us suddenly 
while we were asleep. 

The head man of the company told our captain 
that if he would send some men to the steamer, 
he would give him some provisions. Three men 
and I were chosen to go with them. When we 
got to the steamer, I found that the chief officer 
of the vessel was my countryman. He told me 
that the steamer belonged to the Tien-Tsin cus- 
tom-house, and she would soon sail back to that 
city. I told him about my misery, and asked him 
to let me accompany him to the city of Tien- 
Tsin. He spoke about it to the captain, and by 
his kind permission I was allowed to go on board 
of the steamer to the old " Flowery Kingdom.** 

The captain of the steamer gave plenty of pro- 
visions to the Liukiu junk, and left the bay and 
sailed toward the great Gulf of Pe-chili. After 
two days* cruise, we reached the mouth of the 
Tien-Tsin River. 

My countryman, the chief officer, advised me, 
if I wanted to know the real customs of China, 
and also study the doctrine of Confucius, to go to 
the very heart of the empire. So I made a plan 
to visit the capital. The captain gave me a good 
introductory letter to his friend at Peking, who 
was an eminent scholar and a master of an old- 
style Confucian school. 



88 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

Did this poor refugee, myself, ever become 
satisfied with the old customs, and converted to 
the doctrine of that great Chinese saint, and so 
give up the hope of reaching Christendom ? or 
did the young Oriental still follow the bright star, 
and seek diligently after the new-born Child ? 
Let us go on with other chapters. 



CHAPTER X 

IN THE CHINESE EMPIRE 

A BRIGHT spring day was almost changing the 
appearance of nature into that of a sooty monster, 
the sun showing yet on the far-off western moun- 
tain peak just two or three inches. The evening 
wind, passing through the old pine forest, together 
with the bird's song which echoed among the 
deep glens, made wild music. The far-distant 
hills looked so dark against the sky that they 
could hardly be distinguished from the mass of 
clouds. A silvery cascade hung on the slope of a 
hill like white silk on a weaver's frame ; and a 
long stream flowed about the crooked bases of 
the hills like a gigantic dragon seeking her home. 

In the midst of this grand scene, there came a 
young traveller whose feet betrayed the long, 
weary journey. The traveller was I, the poor 
Japanese refugee, on the way from Tien-Tsin to 
the city of Peking. 

Soon the darkness of night came on ; still I 
kept on until I came to the bank of a large river. 
There was no bridge across the river ; so I went 
here and there to see if any house or dwelling 
could be found along the banks. 

89 



90 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

The silent night grew deeper, and even the 
trees and grasses seemed to enjoy their warm 
night dreams. 

" Bow-wow ! wow ! wow ! " A strange barking 
was suddenly heard at a distance. I was greatly 
startled, for I thought it was a wolf. I quickly 
climbed up a tall tree so that the animal could 
not catch me. But, fortunately, when I reached 
the top of the tree, I saw a little firelight in the 
wood, and I also found that the barking was 
nothing but dogs around a house. I came 
down from the tree, and turned my feet in the 
direction of the firelight. When I reached the 
place, I found a large, flat hut, and a few rude- 
looking Chinamen gathered about the fireplace, 
gambling, talking and laughing. I thought they 
were thieves. " Really, if they are, their want 
would be only money, and when they find out that 
I have none, they will not murder me for nothing,** 
I said to myself. I took off my boots and hid 
all my money in the stockings. Then I went to 
the house and knocked at the door. 

When the door was opened, I found three or 
four men lying along the fireplace, and playing 
cards. I told them that I was a stranger going 
to the capital, and had lost the way. I also 
asked them if I could spend the night with them. 

" Yes, you may, if you do not object to such a 
poor house," was the reply. 

I could not sleep in such a strange cabin ; and 
while I was watching their play, the cock crew 



IN THE CHINESE EMPIRE 91 

and the daybreak came. The rest of the men 
wakened from one corner of their apartment and 
looked at me with surprise. They were living as 
ferry-boat men along these great rivers. 

When I asked them to take me to the other 
side of the river, one of them, gazing upon me, 
^ whispered to the other, "A goot bird! " **Yes, in 
de river oi fix 'm all same ! ** said another in broken 
English, for they thought that I would not under- 
stand that language. 

I quickly caught the point and its meaning, 
though I did not say anything to them. 

Soon I was carried by two men in a small ferry- 
boat. When we came to the middle of the river, 
I suddenly took off my garments, and told them 
that I had no money in my pocket, so they might 
take my coat and some other things instead of 
the fare. 

The ferrymen looked at each other wonder- 
ingly. 

** You young devil, why did you not tell it be- 
fore?** they exclaimed. 

But it was too late, as we were very near the 
other side of the river. They came close to me, 
and searched all my pockets, even my under- 
clothing ; but they did not pay any attention to 
the inside of my boots where my treasure was all 
hidden. Then they asked that on landing I would 
sell my garments to the grogshop keeper and give 
them a good drink for their trouble. 

When we got ashore, I was taken to a small 



92 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

brewery, which was the only house in the great 
wilderness of the Chinese interior. I stripped off 
my overcoat and sold it to the host for a little 
over one dollar, all of which the ferrymen spent 
for native wine, and then departed in the same 
boat for their resort. 

" Riches are kept by the owners thereof to 
their hurt." It is all by his money that a man 
falls into misfortune, or into temptation. My life 
was safe, because I did not show my money to the 
ruffians. 

I took out the hidden treasure from the inside 
of my boots, and paid for my coat which I had 
sold to the host. I was told by the shopkeeper 
that the ferrymen were thieves, and often robbed 
a single passenger on the river and then threw 
him overboard. The old man said that I was the 
first one who had blinded the thieves and escaped 
from the danger. He gave me a warm supper, and 
on the next morning he bade his son accompany 
me until I came into the main road which led 
straight to the capital. I departed thence safely, 
and the next day reached the great Mongol city. 

Peking has often changed its name in the course 
of its long history, having been called in turn, 
Yeou-tcheou, Ki, and Tchong-tou. When, in the 
fourteenth century, the empire had two capitals, 
one of them was called Nanking, and the other 
Peking ; and although these names had no longer 
any meaning after the abandonment of Nanking 
in 1809, the Jesuit had transmitted this name to 



IN THE CHINESE EMPIRE 93 

Europe, and foreigners still speak of the city as 
Peking, or the northern city ; but to the Chinese 
themselves the name of the present capital is 
King-tcheng. 

King-tcheng, or Peking, consists of two cities 
side by side, Nei-ching, and Wai-tching, or Tartar 
and Chinese town. The Chinese town, which 
nestles against the southern rampart of Nei-ching, 
is not so large and picturesque as the Tartar city. 
The streets are narrow, tortuous and dirty ; the 
beggars are numerous and more insolent than 
anywhere else. One of the curious and astonish* 
ing things is the ox-cart sent from Ou-ying-tan* 
Early every mornings the cart passes slowly along 
the streets to pick up the poor dead children, 
mostly female offspring, which are '^ sent to the 
dark " by their heathen mothers, and exposed at 
night in the public thoroughfares. These bodies 
are all taken to the Ou-ying-tan, and at the end 
of every week are buried in a common graven 
There were hundreds of odd customs, such as 
child stealing and selling, slaven* of women, 
opium smoking, cruel punishment for the of- 
fenders, etc., which at once attracted my atten- 
tion. Of cour^, we cannot judge the nation 
»mply by its outward doing, bat it may re^'cal 
no small measure of its character, as the manners 
and cu.^tom^ are the ojtgroTirth of its religion, 
and the visibU: rA^^n of the :>eco!e's heart. 

In the Tartar city. ihir:gs are a little bett^rr, 
tbott^ the cuitonis are siuch the sazEiC every- 



"> 



94 ^ JAPANESE CRUSOE 

where. The most important part of this city is 
the imperial residence, which has lost nothing of 
its antique splendor and majesty. It is not a 
palace, in the European acceptation of the term, 
but a collection of a hundred buildings, such as 
the homes for the emperor, empress, secondary 
wives, princes and princesses of the imperial 
f^^mily ; also homes for the state functionaries, 
the guards, the eunuchs and servants, etc. The 
chief entrance is on the south, by way of what is 
known^as the " Gate of the Great Purity,** guarded 
by two granite lions. On the left hand side of 
the gate, there are many foreign residences. 
Diplomatists, missionaries and the few European 
officers in the service of the Central Custom-house 
of China are the only outsiders allowed to reside 
in the country. They are all grouped together 
in the same quarter with the legations of different 
countries. 

In the Tartar city, outside the imperial palace, 
' there are many old buildings and valuable his- 
torical relics. Among them is the great temple 
of Confucius, which was built by the emperor 
Tching Wang, in the year 1300. The building is 
situated in the northern extremity of the city. 

The residence of my friend, the Chinese school- 
master to whom I was cordially introduced, was 
located opposite the Temple of Confucius. The 
gentleman was over sixty years of age. He had 
no family, nor any relatives but his beloved dis- 
ciples. After reading my introductory letter, the 



IN THE CHINESE EMPIRE 95 

old scholar said he was very happy to receive me, 
and that it was his greatest pleasure to live with 
a foreign pupil. He told me that if I did not 
mind his "humble dwelling," I might stay with 
my fellow-pupils as long as I pleased. I thanked 
him and I soon enjoyed the old Chinese discipline, 
as they express it, " to eat and sleep under the 
same roof with the teacher." 

The old schoolmaster asked me to change my 
customs for those of the Chinese and to wear my 
hair long, which I did. I was much befriended 
by him and all his pupils. Soon I began to study 
the Book of Confucius, Doctrines of Mencius and 
the ancient literature and philosophy in the orig- 
inal; and I became a real Chinaman. 

I had many friends among the Confucian 
scholars, Buddhist priests, Mohammedan teachers 
and Christian missionaries. Thus the city of 
Peking was a good school of comparative religion 
for a young investigator like myself. 

The Mohammedan teacher said : " The Koran 
was given to us through the angel Gabriel and 
accepted by us as the word of God. God rules 
everywhere by his omnipotent energy, and he is 
infinitely exalted above the creature. There is 
no mediator to reveal God to man. Fasting, 
charity and pilgrimage are the only means of 
salvation, and * sword and Paradise * is our 
hope." 

In Mohammedanism there are no original re- 
ligious ideas ; all are mostly derived or borrowed 



96 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

from the Bible. Hence it is well to follow the 
original Scripture instead of the interpretation of 
the Arabian conqueror. 

The next teacher to whom I listened was a Bud- 
dhist high priest. He said : " Seek diligently 
after wisdom. Buddha is the only embodiment of 
wisdom and the supreme ruler of the world and 
heaven. We claim that there is no being with 
greater supernatural power than man can attain to 
by virtue and knowledge. There is no revelation, 
but all things can be discovered by man, by any 
human being who can so far conquer his natural 
self — his affections, desires, fears and wants — as 
to attain to perfect calm, being capable of intui- 
tions which are absolute truth." 

Buddhism was introduced to our country many 
centuries ago ; and we all know its superstitions 
and vices. It, then, was not worthy of being car- 
ried to my home as a religion of the civilized 
nations of this day. Moreover, if the Buddhist 
priest knew the prophecy of Buddha: "After 
three thousand years there will be born a wise 
teacher, Meloku ; and after that, my doctrine 
should have an end,** then this must be the time 
for him to change his old view and follow after 
the new Meloku or the Saviour of the world. 

Now, what is Confucianism ? It can hardly be 
called an organized religious system. The classics 
of Confucius were one supreme source of moral 
culture, before which men bowed as before a deity. 
" A man doing well in this present world, need 



IN THE CHINESE EMPIRE 97 

not care for the other world/* was commonly 
taught by the best Chinese philosopher. 

The more I studied Confucianism, the more I 
found the difficulties of adopting it as my progress- 
ive country's standard religion. For its doctrines 
relate principally to the ethics of political and 
social life, and not to the religious life which teaches 
the existence of a true God. 

One Sunday I went to attend an American 
missionary's preaching service. The preacher 
spoke in the native tongue : ** Religion is a bond 
between God and man. It cannot be restricted 
by geographical limits. Religion has its germ in 
man's sense of God ; that God is, and that he is 
supreme. It comes, however, under two headings, 
namely, true, and false religion ; that is, the wor- 
ship of the true Father of the universe, or the 
service of idols, or supposed gods. And which 
religion is true, and which is false, we can judge 
by its fruit, as ' a good tree cannot bring forth 
evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth 
good fruit.' We have studied and know perfectly 
well the history of each religion. We see the 
Hindoo bowing before his idol, the Turk praying 
toward Mecca, the Chinese kneeling before his 
ancestors, but we see that not one of them 
has reached the truth, for they have not found 
the divine Redeemer revealed in Christianity. 
Jesus of Nazareth is the only divinely appointed 
Redeemer and Saviour of the world. The work 
of Christ meets the demands of the law. In view 
7 



98 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

of it, the believing man is justified. Its special 
object, therefore, is salvation. This is implied 
in his name, Jesus — the Saviour. * This is a faith- 
ful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that 
Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners.* ** 

After I had heard this preaching, my heart 
was greatly moved. I could no longer stay in 
that old country as a pupil of the old Confucian 
school. So I told my schoolmaster, and asked 
permission to leave the school, for I wanted to 
visit America. 

The old schoolmaster who had very liberal ideas, 
and was a broadminded freethinker, seemed 
rather glad of my brave determination. He told 
me that I must write him as soon as I got to 
America, and explain to him all about the condi- 
tion of Christendom, thus expressing his impartial 
opinion to me : " Though I have become old, yet 
I am ready to listen, if the teaching is genuinely 
true and holy.'* 

By such encouraging words my heart longed 
the more earnestly for the truth. I bade farewell 
to my master and to all my friends, packed up my 
books and other things, and departed from the 
old capital of the Chinese empire, and toward the 
serious question, I set my mind again ; — namely, 
how can I get to America ? 



CHAPTER XI 

VOYAGE TO AMERICA 

Courage and perseverance carry all before them. 
I had overcome many difficulties, and had now 
arrived at the city of Tien-Tsin. After I had 
rested two or three days, my friend told me of an 
American merchant ship that was anchored in the 
port. He told the captain all about me, and asked 
him to take me to the United States at the 
cheapest rate possible. 

The captain was a kind-hearted man. He told 
my friend that he would take me to America at 
the cost of my rations. I paid the money and 
remained in the ship, and two days afterward she 
sailed away from the port. I was told by the 
captain that the ship was going to Japan first, and 
from there would start for America. 

Our voyage was very peaceful until we came 
near the coast of Kiushu in Japan. One evening 
we met a terrible storm. The water rose high, 
and the ship rolled like a ball. When she went up 
to the top of the giant wave it looked like ascend- 
ing to the summit of the high mountains, and when 
she went down into the trough of the sea, I felt 
as though she were falling into the deep caverns. 

99 



lOO A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

A grievous thought came to my mind, and I re- 
solved that if I could not go to America this time 
I would either die or go directly home to my 
earthly father, and be like one of his servants, as 
I was not worthy to be called his son, and would 
never run myself into such miseries as these any 
more. 

All this while the storm increased more and 
more, and I heard very suddenly the fire-bell and 
the shouting of men, " Fire ! fire ! ** Soon all the 
sailors came out, and while every effort was being 
made to extinguish the fire which had broken out 
in the lamp-room, the captain ordered the men to 
prepare the Hfe-boats. He now turned the ship's 
bow toward the nearest land. 

After a few hours the ship came along the coast 
of Tani Island. The fire was soon past all con- 
trol and so we jumped overboard. Most of us who 
knew how to swim, got the life-boat which had 
been lowered ; but two men who were not skilled 
in swimming were drowned. 

While we were on the way to the shore, we met 
two life-boats each rowed by four natives. They 
did us great service, and when we got to the shore, 
a crowd of people were watching for us, and 
we were very hospitably treated by the natives. 

We stayed on that island about two days ; 
then we were sent by an official junk to Kagoshi- 
ma, and from there a steamer conveyed us to 
Kob^, one of the five open ports in Japan. In 
that city, our men were all discharged. 









VOYAGE TO AMERiC^- lOl 

After a few days, the chief officer, ."yrho was a 
native of Massachusetts, and I, went tp a Nova 
Scotia ship which was in port and ready *To sail 
for New York within a day or two. He had tojLd 
the captain about our wreck, and asked hinr t^- 
take us to America on his vessel. The captairij':-^ 
a good-hearted old man, at once employed my V.. 
friend as his shipmate, and he promised him that 
he would take me to America free of charge. 

When I heard this news, my heart was filled 
with joy. I thanked the captain and returned to 
the shore to prepare for my departure. At the 
city of Kob^, I visited several noted places and 
old historical spots for my last sight of the loved 
native land, and on the way home, I bought many 
English books, among them an English and Japa- 
nese dictionary and a Bible. 

That night, thinking many things about the 
future, I could not sleep at all until morning. 

To go had been my one desire, but a poor 
stranger with an unknown tongue, how could I 
live, and support myself in that vast mysterious 
world ? Such questions came to my mind. But 
casting myself on the providence of my heavenly 
Father, I left my friend's house and started on my 
search for truth. 

When I came to the end of the wharf, for the 
first time I expressed my unspeakable feeling of 
sorrow and loneliness. " This toil and misery are 
not for my own sake,*' I said, " but all for the 
good of my countrymen, yet none give me any 



1* 

♦■ -_ "- 






I02 -^.Japanese crusoe 

sympathy. yjHat ever. Not only so, but while most 
young, rni^n who are going abroad for study or 
busjnel^, are surrounded by a great many friends 
and 'Jcinsmen who bid them good-by, no one 
. Ji^bifgratulates me/* 

Tlie bell is ringing, 

It bids me hurry away ; 

But love is abiding. 

No one, but thou, O God : 

Thou only knowest my heart 

Of sweet and tender love. 

I left the shore in a small boat, and was cordially 
received on board the schooner by the captain. 
The next morning the ship spread her sails and 
moved out for the great ocean. This was on the 
15th day of June, in the year 1888, according to 
the European calendar. The ship's name was 
" Thomas Perry.** By that name I recalled my 
country's royal friend. Commodore Perry and his 
merit. 

This is all for thee. 
Fairest Queen of the East ! 
Perry, thy honored friend 
Carries thy son away. 
To give thee peace ; 
Farewell ! God will bless thee. 

As I kept no diary during my voyage, I must 
necessarily trust entirely to my memory, giving 
here such facts as were indelibly impressed on my 
mind while on board the schooner on which I 
spent over half of a year. 



VOYAGE TO AMERICA 103 

June i^th. The day was clear and warm. As 
the green mountains of my native country faded 
from my vision and disappeared, very sad thoughts 
filled my heart. I took an empty bottle, put 
some letters into it and tied its mouth with a cork, 
then threw it into the water, expecting that it 
would reach my beloved people. 

June i6th. The weather was quite stormy. 
The captain was very anxious about my seasick 
ness. He gave me some medicine, and told me 
that if I would take some deck work, I would 
have no more seasickness. So I did, and I en- 
joyed it very much. I was also interested to listen 
to the wonderful stories told by the sailors who 
represented almost all nationalities. 

June ijth. The wind blew hard and the sea 
was still wild. I got cold, and my sickness was 
so bad that I could not come to the dinner-table. 
I had a terrible homesickness, too. 

June i8th. I felt much better. I began to 
study English as my daily task until I should 
get to the shore. I had a very fine time with 
my study, for there was nothing to interrupt me 
whatever. 

June igth. The day was very hot. The ship's 
fresh provisions were'all out, such things as meat, 
vegetables and eggs. I asked the captain in what 
month we would get to New York. He said that 
we would reach there perhaps at the end of the 
year. The answer surprised me a great deal, for 
there was nothing to eat save some salt beef and 



104 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

potatoes. The ship-cook encouraged me saying 
that we might catch plenty of fish by and by. 

June 20th. From this day to the first of July, 
there was nothing worthy of mention excepting 
the sight of the blue waters and sky. 

July 1st. We entered the China Sea. The 
weather was cloudy. A strong gale of wind blew 
the whole day, and the sea was very rough. The 
waves often rose higher than our main mast. The 
ship was in a dangerous condition. 

July 2d. The wind was still blowing hard. 
The captain thought that it was best to cut the 
masts, in order to save the ship, or at least the 
lives of the men. The sailors came on deck each 
with an axe, waiting simply the captain's last order 
to cut down the wings of the ship. But God did 
not forsake us. The wind gradually abated, and 
thus we all escaped from the danger of being 
lost. 

Here, my exact records of the diary are ex- 
hausted. I think it was in the last part of August 
that we came to the great Indian Ocean. 

Early one morning, while we were yet asleep, 
" All hands ! ** was suddenly called out by the 
watch officer. Soon the men took in all sail from 
the yards, and while they were doing so, a mon- 
strous waterspout which had a rapid, whirling 
motion rose up just a few yards beyond our vessel. 
Had it struck us, our ship would surely have 
been broken in pieces. But we escaped from it 
as if by a miracle. 



VOYAGE TO AMERICA 105 

When I first came on board, the captain kindly 
advised me to do some deck work because I had 
seasickness. But now the sailors rudely urged me 
to do part of their menial work as my every- 
day duty. One of them especially insulted me 
every time I met him. I endured it for over a 
month. My patience, however, was gone at last, 
and my youthful heart was burning like fire. I 
forgot all my plans for the future. I took the 
pistol which belonged to the captain and had 
been kept in his cabin. I determined to shoot 
the man, and then throw myself into the sea. 

Madness comes like lightning in the night. 
When a man's heart is in the dark, he cannot see 
even himself. But it is just for a moment, and 
after all, he will return to himself and exercise 
judgment of right and wrong. 

When I seized the captain's pistol and went 
near to the man to kill him and then commit 
suicide, my conscience awakened instantly. 
** Nay ! nay ! " I said, ** to demolish a temple is 
easier than to build it. This flesh and blood does 
not belong to nie but to God. I cannot steal it 
nor kill it. I must make myself useful to him 
and to my fellow countrymen ! ** My mind 
turned again to the right course, and thus calmed 
my passions, and I meekly submitted to the in- 
dignity. 

I remember that, during the month of Sep- 
tember, a fresh-water tank was empty, so the 
ship-carpenter opened the other one. That, too. 



lo6 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

he found was empty. The water had leaked out 
from a hole underneath the old iron tank. It 
gave us a surprise and much grief. After we 
discovered it, every rainy day kept us quite busy, 
some carrying the rain-water to fill the empty 
tanks, and others taking the opportunity for 
washing and bathing. 

We now came near the coast of the Cape of 
Good Hope. The tide was very strong around 
here. The ship did not move ahead, but kept in 
almost the same position for over three weeks. 
It was not our ship alone, for we saw three or 
four sailing vessels in a similar condition along 
these waters. 

One evening when I stood on the bow, watching 
the African coast and its beautiful sunset, I saw 
a shoal of man-eating sharks, perhaps eight or 
nine feet long, swimming round our vessel. When 
I saw them, my pragmatic nature moved me to 
fish for them just for fun. 

I got a sharp harpoon and a long cord from the 
carpenter's room. I went to the extreme end of 
the bow and sat upon a wire rope which is called 
a martingale. I tied the cord to the end of my 
harpoon and the other end of it to the ship's 
figurehead. When things were all ready, I cast 
my harpoon at a shark. Just at that moment 
both of my feet slipped down from the wire rope 
and I tumbled overboard. In my fall, I did not 
relax my hold of the cord, and, as soon as I realized 
my position, I knew that my life depended on my 




VOYAGE TO AMERICA 107 

ability to hold to the cord, so inch by inch I 
climbed up into the ship. 

When I was safely on deck and on the way to 
my cabin, my friend, the second mate, asked me : 
" What is the matter with you, Charley ? Your 
face is pale and white." 

I wished to tell him the story, but no voice 
came from my mouth. 

When I got into my cabin, I lay down on the 
floor, offered an earnest prayer to my unseen 
Father, and thanked him for my wonderful deliv- 
erance. In my prayer I made a solemn vow that 
I would give myself hereafter to God and devote 
my whole life for the salvation of mankind, and 
more especially for the poor and needy. 

We came now to the coast of the West Indies. 
We saw many seaweeds floating on the water, and 
I was told by an officer that Columbus was assured 
of the land when he came as far as to these waters 
and found the seaweed floating on the surface. 

As we came farther north, the climate suddenly 
changed. The day became very cold. So I tried 
to make a fire in the stove which was placed in 
our cabin. 

The captain was sitting in an easy chair with a 
chart in his hand, watching me carefully, and 
after I had made a nice fire, he said : ** You can 
make a fire at very short notice. I suppose you 
have a good brain. Do tell me now, Charley, 
what will you do when you get to New York? 
Would n't you like to go with me to Nova Scotia ? " 



lo8 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

I told him that I was going to the United 
States for study. 

He assured me that if I stayed in that country, 
without money or friends, I would starve to 
death. 

" I think you might better come with me to 
my home ; then you will be safe, and my wife 
will teach you the books which you wish to 
study," said the good old commander. 

I thanked him and said that it had long been 
my desire to come to America, so I would rather 
go ashore and die. " I believe that I shall not 
become a helpless wanderer and starve to death 
while the noble spires of the house of God, that 
I have so often read about, stand in the land." 

While I was saying this, a voice by the watch 
office suddenly came from the upper deck, ** A 
pilot-boat coming, sir ! " So the captain left the 
cabin. 

Now, though my faith and patience had been 
painfully tried on the long voyage, yet gladness 
came again, on the joyful Christmas Day, in the 
year 1888, when the good ship, "Thomas Perry," 
carried us safely to our destined port and dropped 
anchor at the foot of the great statue of " Liberty " 
in New York. I was newly born to the American 
home like a Christmas gift from the Orient ! 



CHAPTER XII 

DARKEST AMERICA 

The old Robinson Crusoe was cast upon an 
uninhabited island of the sea, but nature had 
abundantly provided him with food ; the dimate 
was always warm, so that a man would not suffer 
though he had no house or clothing. 

But I, the poor stranger, was now landed in a 
thickly inhabited and most civilized and thriving 
city. My heart was not at ease, for my situation 
was more dangerous than in a bare island where 
one could freely get fruits and game. I had 
far more difficulties than Robinson had, for 
though there were all sorts of things in the mar- 
ket, and homes and restaurants were plentiful, 
yet nobody would welcome mc unless I had my 
pockets full of the almighty dollar, which seemed 
the only deity which many of these people wor- 
shiped. Without it I was not allowed to take 
either fruit or flower, both of which were offered 
to Robinson Crusoe by nature. 

Still, like the other Robinson Crusoe, ** I walked 
about on the shore, lifting up my hands ; and my 
whole being, as I may say, wrapped up in contem- 
plation of my deliverance, making a thousand 

gestures and motions, which I cannot describe/' 

109 



no A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

New York is a stupendous city, the largest in 
the United States ; a city of commercial magnifi- 
cence. The streets are everywhere lively; the 
people are busy, and life is tuned to the key of 
hurry, bustle and excitement. The whole city is 
served with electric and cable-cars. 

The down-town of New York is that part of the 
city usually given up to business, and, in general, 
may be said to consist of the district south of 
Union Square. It is the busiest part of the busiest 
town in the world. Some of the buildings are so 
high that they look like attempts of Jack, of bean- 
stalk fame, to build a step-ladder to heaven. 
When I came to a broad street with my Ameri- 
can friend, the shipmate, he pointed out to me a 
large queer-looking chair which was ornamented 
with shining brass and silver nails, and was placed 
on the side of the open street, and told me to sit 
on it. 

" You ought to sit down on that big, funny- 
looking chair, and not I,** I told him, as a joke. 

" Oh, no, my shoes are too clean just now, 
Charley, you had better do it ; I will pay for 
you,** says my friend. 

" I beg your pardon. I came to this country 
not for a show. You think, because I am a stran- 
ger, that while I am sitting in that chair you will 
exhibit me to the people, and then perhaps you 
will collect some pennies from the spectators,'* I 
said, and refused to do it. 

My friend laughed at me and then he seated 



DARKESt AMERICA . m 

himself in the big chair. Two boys came, black- 
ing-brush in hand, and a cigarette in each little 
mouth, and began to shine my old mate's shoes. 
I understood it then ; so I sat in the other chair, 
when two other boys came, with similar imple- 
ments, and worked upon my boots also. 

" The little children are smoking in Christen- 
dom, and spending their most valuable school 
years in nothing but shining boots. Is it a 
part of their practical Christian education to imi- 
tate the Master in washing one another's feet? *' 
I thought to myself. 

As we left there, my friend said : " You *d 
better be careful, for pickpockets are plentiful all 
round on these streets, you know." 

As soon as I was told so I thrust my hand into 
my pocket to see if my money was safe ; alas ! a 
little purse that contained three gold coins was 
gone somewhere, and I could not find it. 

" Did I not tell you so, Charley ? " says my 
friend. 

" Yes, but your advice has done me no good, as 
you gave it after the purse was stolen. A wonder- 
ful Christendom ! *' I said, as my excited mind 
and eyes first caught a faint view of the facts of 
the case. 

While we were walking on Broadway I met 
with a very odd-looking white man. He wore a 
long yellow overcoat and had on an old silk hat ; 
his face was painted with white and red color. 
He carried two boards, which were covered with 



I J 2 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

white linen and had some inscription on each. 
He hung one board on his chest and the other 
at his back, and he walked very slowly on the 
street. I thought, perhaps, the man was a crimi- 
nal who was condemned to death, and now the 
poor victim was driven away on the public thor- 
oughfares, as I had often heard that such things 
were practised upon the Christians in my old coun- 
try, some two or three hundred years ago. 

My friend explained to me, however, that he 
was a " sandwich-man," an advertiser. 

" The man who uses the image of God for such 
a foolish purpose, and also disturbs the public 
order, is far worse than he who keeps a negro 
slave around his house,*' I whispered within, in 
surprise. 

Everything in America was strange and new to 
me, and my eyes were quite busy looking every- 
where. At one corner of the entrance of a 
house, I saw a very queer-looking figure of a red- 
colored man, with a feather helmet on, and a 
battle-ax in his hand. 

" Oh, a heathen god of war ! Do these Chris- 
tian people worship such an idol, too ? " I 
inquired, and I was told that it was a sign of a 
cigar store. 

" Charley, would n*t you like to stand up there 
with a silk hat on ? " he said, and laughed at me, 
though I did not understand exactly what that 
meant. 

Now the sun was down, and the evening wind 



DARKEST AMERICA 1 13 

was very cold. My friend took me into one of 
the liquor saloons which were so abundant in 
that city. 

The bar was in the cellar. In there I saw more 
than twenty men and women drinking, dancing, 
laughing, talking, and quarreling. The appear- 
ance was that of an insane asylum. When I saw 
the condition of these men and women I grieved 
for their future. What a miserable old age they 
will spend ! For, though they look so young and 
gay now, yet they will go on, one year after 
another, until their hair becomes gray, and, at last, 
unable to work, even for their own living, they 
must starve to death. Knives and pistols are not 
the only weapons that can kill a person ; but the 
fire-water destroys our fellow men by the thou- 
sands. ** O God, curse and sweep away all these 
savage, no, civilized cannibals, these liquors, from 
the face of the earth ! " I cried, and my heart was 
excited with wonder, perhaps in the same manner 
as when the true Crusoe found the skulls, hands, 
feet and other bones of human bodies in the 
place where the savages did their inhuman feast- 
ings. 

Now the moon was shining beautifully, together 
with the gas and electric lights, and the street 
was almost as light as day. Along the Bowery 
we met with several strangely-dressed women. 
When I saw them I thought an old barbarism 
was still practised by these American females, 
for they had holes in their ears and in them they 



114 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

hung bangles and rings ; their necks and shoul- 
ders were covered with furs ; their heads tricked 
out with feathers and dead birds. Some of them 
looked upon us and saluted us with a sweet little 
voice. The language I, a stranger, coultl not un- 
derstand. I thought, however, that it was a very 
sympathetic and polite manner of the women of 
Christendom to give such a welcome word to a 
stranger on the street ! Alas ! I did not under- 
stand their meaning, nor how they led souls down 
to death. 

We soon arrived at a down-town hotel to have 
our dinner. I notice the people never eat their 
meat cooked in small pieces as we do at our home. 
It is carried into the room in large chunks, often 
half raw, and then they cut and slash and tear it 
apart. They eat with knives and prongs, and 
they use an immense quantity of strong liquor. 
After the dinner, when we went into the parlor, 
I saw more than a dozen respectable-looking gen- 
tlemen. They were smoking cigars enough to 
fill the whole parlor with the acrid vapor. One 
of them was sitting on an easy chair, and he put 
his feet up on a side-table, and looked at the il- 
lustrations of a magazine which was printed on 
red paper. I thought if I wished to be like an 
American gentleman, I must smoke a cigar any- 
way, so I went to a tobacco store and bought a 
few cigars. On the way to my place I met with 
a big, fat man who wore a blue uniform with a 
silver badge on his chest. 



DARKEST AMERICA 1 1 5 

" Aee, Jimmie, give me one and a match ; if 
ye say No, oill club yez ; ** and he begged my 
cigar. 

Was he an officer or a rascal ? I did not 
know. I afterwards found he was one of the 
New York policemen. 

When I came home again I sat near the win- 
dow in the hotel parlor, and while I was putting 
my feet up on the table and smoking a cigar, my 
friend came in and looked at me with wonder : 

** Charley, what does that mean ? " 

** Do I not look like an American gentleman ? "I 
said, with an air of superior wisdom. 

" Of course not, you young goose,'* he said 
scornfully. 

About ten o'clock we retired. My bedroom 
was near an old gentleman's apartment. Shortly 
before he retired, he said to himself : " Foolish 
city people ! while we sleep, what need of light?" 

In a minute or two I smelled gas. Soon I 
heard somebody knock at the man's door. I, too, 
got up and went there, and we found the gentle- 
man had blown out the gaslight ; the gas was 
leaking out, and the old man was lying in bed, 
unconscious of danger. I wondered at him and 
said : " Even an uneducated heathen knows how to 
treat the gaslight. What a shame for an Ameri- 
can, who calls himself a civilized man, not to un- 
derstand it." 

One day when I went to Brooklyn, crossing 
the East River by the ferry-boat, I saw quarrel- 



1 16 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

ing between a woman and a ferryman. The cause 
was that the woman had put her boy into a big 
basket and covered it with some clothes and then 
carried it on her head and paid only one fare. 
After she came into the boat, she let the boy 
out of the basket. 

My feeling at that time was as follows: *^I 
heard America was the richest country in the 
world, but here a poor woman carries her young 
boy on her head to save only three cents fare! " 

After a few weeks I went into a barber shop 
to have my hair trimmed : " Aee, John, git out 
from here. Oi do n't cut a Chinaman's hair ! " I 
was scorned by the old barber. I told him that I 
was not such a man, but a Japanese. " Ou, ye 
Javanese, a country of lots coffee ! All right ; 
sit dan, my goot fellar." The barber charged 
me twenty-five cents ; so I gave him a dollar, and 
he paid me the balance of money, which was 
seventy-five cents. 

After I came out, I went into a bookstore to 
buy a map of New York City. I paid for it a 
half silver dollar which the barber had just given to 
me ; but the clerk said that fifty-cent piece was a 
counterfeit, so I brought it back to the barber 
shop and told him so. " No ! oh, no, sar ! Oi 
do n't give you any such bad money. Oi are doin' 
'onest bizinez like de Bible," was the barber's false 
assertion; and the half-dollar piece became for- 
ever useless. This was American civilization ! 

I thought America was the land of Christian 



DARKEST AMERICA \ \ 7 

civilization and general education, but I soon lost 
my confidence in her, for the language was im- 
perfect, the man was knavish and with a strong 
race prejudice, much stronger than in China, a 
pagan kingdom, so called by the Christian mis- 
sionaries. 

The people in America have no sense of dig* 
nity, and they serve woman as their deity* 
Yet the women are to be pitied, too. On festive 
occasions they are compelled to appear almost 
naked before every man who likes to look at them, 
and then they are dragged around a room to the 
accompaniment of noisy music. 

One evening when I went to the theater, ac* 
companied by my friend, I found more horror 
and luxury of this people. When I was in my 
old country I saw some pretty pictures on a 
cigarette box of a half-naked white wom^iif) with a 
fan, lifting her foot and hand. I, who Ut)^won}y 
the modest, graceful Oriental wotn^n, <a^^\4 
hardly believe such a female fi%UfK w^ Aty^/ 
copied from life. But in that hoM^ I t^i^w tiui 
reality ; and also it was a very nitan^^^ ^i^lj^ 4-v 
see the men and women who look ai ^yj^rh ^bui^isi 
dressed in their best, and gazin^f wi^ ni^^iU^ 
wide open. What impression vfimVi tWt*^ ui^ai 
and women get from such fascinatioj^ yh^y v^ i^Ml 
beauties clad in tights and profligate Hki^o^t^i ^ut 
these people of Christendom had ^ jM:4:viiiiM j/iv 
clivity to it, as, in the city of N<jw yvri< mIv'u, 
there were over fourteen hundred 4»ucli liyu^^; 



1 18 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

besides many hundred music-halls, all in full 
operation. 

Next to that was the savage wrestling, two 
stout-necked men fighting each other in a ring until 
one was bruised to helplessness, the spectators, 
both men and women, staking money upon it, as 
in horse-races or cock-fights. It was indeed more 
inhuman than the Spanish bull-fights ; and it was, 
of course, one of the unchristian features of Chris- 
tendom ! 

I had spent over a month in the city, and now 
I was longing after my native food, rice and fish. 
Some of my companions told me that if I went to 
Chinatown I could eat all such food as much as 
I wanted. It is situated in the neighborhood of 
Five Points. The best day to see the place is 
Sunday, when the laundry business is closed and 
the almond-eyed fellow takes things easy after 
the manner of his American customer, and comes 
to that place to disport himself in gambling, 
drinking, and smoking his favorite pipe. When 
I went inside the restaurant I found everything 
was in Chinese fashion. The little images of 
pagan gods were on the shelf with flowers and 
burning incense. I noticed also quite a number 
of young American females, together with the 
pig-tailed men, sitting round a table, eating the 
Chinese macaroni and enjoying the heathen cups. 
What and who were these eccentric damsels? 
Alas ! the women of the demi-monde^ the same with 
those of the opium dens. If the visitor has any 




A.V'nif 



VARICES T AMERICA 119 

curiosity to penetrate into the interior of the cellar, 
he will see three or more rooms divided into 
cabins by thin partitions, and in each cabin three 
or more wooden couches arranged. The smoker 
lies down on one of these couches. He inhales a 
few breaths of the smoke of the burning opium, 
and then is wrapped in a dream-laden atmosphere 
of lethargy. This evil was not practised simply 
by the Chinamen, but there were several such 
houses exclusively for the use of white people. 
They were established in the neighborhood of 
Five Points, and farther up town. These places 
were known as "joints" by the white opium 
smokers. 

Though this is a democracy, yet the people are 
crazy after titles. At the small hotel down town, 
one young man was invariably addressed as 
" General,** and another who lives on his father's 
money, as I was told, was called " King.** Though 
these were only nicknames, yet the tendency thus 
shown is seen to prevail in higher circles. Even 
the educated newspaper editors are addicted to 
this titleism. In the daily papers such items will 
be seen as: "The Hon. E.** and " ex-Secretary of 
State F,,** said this ; " His Excellency the 
Governor of B,** and " General H.** did that ; 
" Madame S.** and " Lady W." organized so and 
so ; " Doctor P.** and " Professor G.*' have re- 
turned from Europe ; " Colonel L,*' and " Captain 
M.** killed so many Indians in such battle, 
etc. College presidents are given the degree of 



liO A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

Doctor of Laws, and Doctor of Divinity is con- 
ferred upon clergymen. " In no country in 
Europe,** says a French writer, " do you hear so 
many titles, or see so many insignia worn.'* 

When I was in my old country, I used to call 
America ** The Home of Christians,** and the 
image of it, as pictured upon my mind, was 
that of a real Paradise. I suffered and toiled, on 
land and sea, for many years simply to come to 
that high ideal home to be educated. Here I was. 
After my brief inspection of all such customs as 
I have mentioned above, I made the following 
note in my memorandum : " Is this the civiliza- 
tion of which we were taught in our home ? I 
was deceived indeed ! Apparently a prosperous 
country, but really going to decay. She has con- 
quered the British and the Southern slaveholder, 
but now luxury and intemperance are restricting 
her liberty. With what shamefacedness should 
the missionaries teach our people about the su- 
periority of Christian civilization over pagan 
countries, and call us miserable sinners and poor 
heathen ! ** My trust in a highly regarded Chris- 
tendom was for the time almost driven away from 
my mind. 

I had had many experiences, however, in strange 
countries long before I had reached the American 
shore, and I knew pretty well about human 
nature and society. As I spent day after day in 
the city, I came to understand gradually that I 
was looking among too low a class of people in 



DARKEST AMERICA 1 2 1 

the American republic. " If such customs were 
universal, how could this be the home of Wash- 
ington, Franklin, Webster, Lincoln, Patrick 
Henry, John Brown, and Ulysses Grant?** I 
said to myself. 

" The eye, which sees all things, cannot see it- 
self.** If I looked at such low-class people in my 
old country, what horrible things should I find ? 
With a beam in my own eye, I was trying to pull 
out the mote out of another man's eye ! That is 
not altogether wise. Truly, I was observing an 
inferior part of society which had been recently 
brought over from the old European countries. 

In the early history of America a multitude of 
black-skinned Hamites had been imported to 
America, while a multitude of white-skinned 
poor descendants of Japheth had come of their 
own accord. The difference in them was this, 
that the former were sent to work for a master, 
while the latter came in freedom to work for 
mammon ; and to some extent both were slaves 
just the same. 

The walls of the vast republic were surrounded 
largely by these people. " Look not upon one's 
outward appearance,** was a very applicable word 
for the Yankee society. And at last I will ad- 
vocate her right with one word : — Judge not the 
honeycomb by its look, for the honey cannot be 
found on the outside. 



CHAPTER XIII 

LIGHT OF AMERICA 

Americans are not an isolated, independent 
race like the Chinese, but embrace peoples of all 
nationalities that have been naturalized or were 
born in the United States. Once I heard a 
speech from a curly-haired black man at the an- 
niversary of Washington's birthday. ** Gent'- 
men! we arede born *Merican citizen, de children 
ov George Washington ! ** The name, American 
citizeriy was a matter of pride even to that black 
man. I knew a young Jew in New York, whose 
father had lived in that city about fifteen or six- 
teen years, who was forbidden to eat pork or any- 
thing that was cooked with lard, and who had no 
knowledge of English. Still, he did a large busi- 
ness in the city, and called himself an American 
citizen. Once I was told that " the newspaper of 
the largest circulation, and of the most unsavory 
reputation, in New York City, is owned by a Jew ; 
and not long ago Boston itself had an Irish 
Catholic as its mayor.'* Even in a small Puritan 
city like New Haven there were Jewish, French, 
German, and English churches, with preaching 
in the mother-tongue of each nationality. It is 

122 



LIGHT OF AMERICA 1 23 

not, therefore, very easy for a stranger to judge 
the great American republic from its exterior. 

But the danger to which superficial travelers 
in the United States are exposed is that they 
" see her by candlelight," and never look into the 
inner heart of the nation. Their note-books are 
filled with references to the corruptions of Ameri- 
can society and the degradation of the Christian 
religion. 

Years ago America was visited by Charles 
Dickens, who subsequently wrote an indiscreet 
book about the country, with glaringly ridicu- 
lous statements. Taine, the French author, also 
has written a book about America after a short 
stay there, and the result was almost equally un- 
fortunate. So with our Japanese observers. 
Some years ago, for example, a company of our 
young students whose acquaintance with the 
Caucasian race in Japan had been mostly with 
missionaries, came to America for study. Until 
the very landing at " Frisco,** these men thought 
that the people in America were all saintly men, 
whose hearts were filled with noble Christian pur- 
poses; who sang hymns from morning till even- 
ing; and that the whole nation praised the Lord 
with harps and horjis, with hosannas, hallelujahs, 
and amens. But soon they saw degraded and 
vicious society, as I have portrayed it in the 
other chapter. The young men were shockingly 
disappointed and began to feel that there must 
be much truth in the statement of the antichris- 



124 ^ JAPANESE CRUSOE 

tians in their home: "Christianity has already 
begun to lose its power in the West.** They all 
reported to their influential newspapers and 
magazines about what they heard and saw in 
America. Gradually, the native theologians and 
the preachers of the gospel began to think that 
they were too restricted by the old theology 
which was far behind the time. The cry " Japan 
for Japanese," became strong ; they tried to es- 
tablish a pure Japanized Christian church in their 
own kingdom. Next to that was a partial refor- 
mation of our girls* education. The old litera- 
ture, poetry, and the suitable housekeeping train- 
ing were abolished ; and instead of it, philosophy, 
German and French languages and sciences took 
the old place. Ungraceful, impudent, and af- 
fected " American ** girlhood was introduced. 
Free marriages and woman*s rights were pro- 
claimed from her sweet little mouth, out of which 
it seemed impossible that such language should 
come. She was walking arrogantly like a man, 
with a foreign bonnet with the back side in front. 
She was proud of her education, and she loved to 
attend political and scientific lectures which had 
little or no connection with her line of work ; and 
with all that she neglected ,her own business, 
which is to win the heart by her natural sweet- 
ness and attraction. 

This state of things was brought about mostly 
by the misleading of one-sided advocates. But 
he who knows thoroughly the true American 



LIGHT OF AMERICA 125 

society would never forget its charming, modest, 
generous, patriotic, and friendly people ; and 
really one cannot avoid a homesickness for that 
land of stars, though he comes back to his own 
native country. 

But to return to my story. My friend, the old 
shipmate, went to sea again ; but some time be- 
fore he departed he placed me in one of the best 
academies in the city, and I was taught there 
daily. 

Although there were so many fine places to 
visit in the city, yet loneliness in the heart is un- 
avoidable to any sojourner in a strange country. 
" Alone ! ** Ah, what more sorrowful word is 
there in the language, than that single one, 
" Alone '* ? Alone I was living among a different 
race of people, with a limited knowledge of their 
language. In the school, no one could teach me 
with the tongue which I learned from my mother's 
lips ; but, word after word, I must struggle with 
my dictionary. In the boarding-house, I could 
not enjoy any of my native food ; and the old 
mistress was scornful if I neglected to pay a 
week's room-rent and board in advance. 

" By lying down and eating, even a mountain 
may be consumed," is a saying common among 
my countrymen. My pocket was growing empty, 
and I was anxious about my future. How could 
I feed and clothe myself when all my money was 
gone ? I knew that if I told my poor condition 
to the hostess, she would be glad to employ me 



126 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

as her house servant ; but I was too proud, and 
would not ask anything as a favor, so the old 
lady did not think of me as a poor young man. 
No one knew of all I suffered save myself and my 
Father in heaven. 

" Skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he 
give for his life. But put forth thine hand now, 
and touch his bone and his flesh," was the sug- 
gestion of Satan to Job's Master. 

My next trial was suffering with a dangerous 
illness. One day, when I walked home from 
school, I got a severe cold. The sickness was 
the first I ever experienced in my life. I spent 
all my money for medicine and for a doctor. 
When I was lying helplessly in bed, my school- 
mate came and asked me why I did not use some 
medicine. I told him that I had spent all my 
money, and now I could not ask the doctor any 
more. He then accompanied me to a dispensary 
at Centre Street, where I was examined kindly 
by a doctor, and medicine was given without 
charge. One morning, when I went there as 
usual, the doctor told me if I wanted to be cured 
quicker, I had better go to the hospital. 

" But, doctor, I have no friend to pay my ex- 
penses,'* I said to him. 

" Never mind that ; we are good friends to 
Japan," he said. 

And that encouraged this helpless patient, my- 
self. He gave me a letter addressed to a head 
officer in the hospital. After I went there my 



LIGHT OF AMERICA 127 

schoolmate removed all my things from the 
boarding-house into his residence, and he visited 
my sick-bed as often as he could. The following 
note was translated from my Japanese pen, which 
was written in my memorandum shortly before I 
left the hospital : 

" Bellevue Hospital is situated on the banks of 
East River, a beautiful eight-storied stone build- 
ing. It has a large fine garden with a view of the 
river. The rooms are nicely decorated and heated 
with steam. When I came here, four weeks ago, 
a doctor examined me first ; then I was put into 
a nice room. Soon two nurses came and taking 
off all my garments, gave me a warm bath, then 
put on me new white clothes. The meals and 
medicine were brought by an attendant. Every 
morning two nurses came and wiped my face 
and hands, and combed my hair, etc. I, the 
motherless refugee, now became a happy child in 
a Christian family. Last Sunday a company of 
children came and sung for us a beautiful hymn, 
* Behold a stranger at the door ! ' My eyes were 
filled with tears, and they ran down and wet all 
my pillow. A wealthy Christian lady has been 
visiting our room quite often, and she gave me 
flowers, cakes, fruits, books, and all necessary 
things. She also told me to come straight to her 
residence when I got well, and she would send 
me to school. I write these lines in this memo- 
randum in honor of the doctors, the kind-hearted 
lady, nurses, and, last of all, the Bellevue Hospital." 



128 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

Time passes like the running water. It was on 
a glorious day in spring, I was made whole, and 
my life was again saved from the fate of death. 
I thanked the Lord and Saviour. My faith, 
which was small as a grain of mustard seed, now 
sprang over into a large portion of my heart, 
and my interest in God*s work grew so strong 
that I forgot everything else, even the kind word 
of the lady who had told me to come to her 
home. With all that I left the hospital like a 
bird which is flying away from a cage. 
• When I met with my old friend, he told me 
that he had provided for me already a nice place 
to work and study. The next day he accom- 
panied me to a government hospital in the city, 
and I was very gladly employed there. The 
officers and men were very kind ; a nice clean 
room was offered me, a library and reading-room 
were furnished freely with new books and period- 
icals, and I could keep up with my studies, too. 

Now, I had no trouble with my own living, and 
I had time enough to observe the very heart of 
Christendom. 

When I was in my old home, I thought my 
country was the center of all beauties, both in 
scenery and custom. Her soil is fertile, climate 
mild, seas deep and mountains high, such as could 
be found nowhere else but in Japan ; and the land 
itself was the very abode of gentlemen and gods. 
But when I saw the banks of the Hudson 
River, moonlight nights on High Bridge and 



LIGHT OF AMERICA 129 

Washington Heights, the interior of New Jersey, 
and Long Island, I was surprised. The pictur- 
esque mountains, solitary lakes, passionate 
streams, pine-clad hills, velvet lawns, and green 
pastures were simply grand. Along the coast of 
Staten Island and Sandy Hook, the water and 
sky are as clear and blue as a maiden's eyes. 
Many fine mansions appear in the woods, and the 
white smoke curls out from each chimney like a 
beauty's forelock. A small house away from the 
crowd is more highly esteemed than a large house 
in the crowd. A white yacht perhaps is sailing 
swiftly with her shadow on the water, which is 
tranquil as a mirror. The full spring moon is 
bright, calm, splendid. On the whole, the scenery 
is more like a picture than a reality. 

Besides these attractive natural views, there 
were many valuable art galleries and fine museums 
in the city. There were also over six hundred 
houses of God whose doors were thrown open on 
every Sabbath. The melodious notes of the 
organ were heard along the aisles of the church, 
and the bells were ringing out sweet notes of 
music. All the stores, even the saloons, were 
closed on that day. The crowded markets now 
became as quiet as a graveyard, and everybody 
seemed busy for churchgoing. These houses 
of God were mostly built of fine stones, broad 
on the ground, with massive columns and high 
spires. The interior of the buildings was beauti- 
fully decorated. The floors and aisles were car- 
9 



130 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

peted, the pews all cushioned, and hymn-books, 
Bibles, and fans provided and laid in these pews. 
The preaching was practical and timely, and the 
singing was very charming. It is a place of 
worship, enjoyment, and public education. 

On the other hand, charity works in that city 
are very active and successful, and are instituted 
to relieve the suffering of a vast number of persons 
of every condition, religion, or want. There are 
almshouses for the needy, societies for the friend- 
less, houses of shelter for the fallen, reformatories 
for the erring, homes for boys and girls, all of 
them watched over and superintended by men 
and matrons who understand their work thor- 
oughly. Free libraries, reading-rooms, night 
schools are opened for everybody without dis- 
tinction of race. Free dispensaries and hospitals 
are plenty on every hand ; and the merciful hand 
of Christ touches all the sick people; not his 
direct hand, but, by his wonderful name, the 
people throw money voluntarily into such work to 
save the millions of poor sick men and women, 
as in the days of their Saviour along the sea of 
Galilee. 

Important auxiliaries in the moral sphere of 
things in the city are the Young Men's Christian 
Association and the Midday Fulton Prayer 
Meeting. The former is on Twenty-third Street, 
and is a large, handsome erection, five stories 
high, with numerous apartments, including halls, 
lecture-rooms, offices, etc. Many young men 



LIGHT OF AMERICA 13 1 

have received good by coming to these rooms ; 
and it is calculated that over seven hundred per- 
sons enter the rooms of the Association every 
day, and that upwards of one hundred thousand 
come to the reading room every year. The Mid- 
day Fulton Prayer Meeting is held in a large 
hall in Fulton Street. Working men, merchants, 
and earnest people in general come here for an 
hour at midday ; they return to their business 
and occupations carrying with them increased 
strength and joy. 

" Oh, what a delightful land, thou Christen- 
dom ! ** was now for the first time impressed upon 
my mind. Soon my pride in the old native country 
was gone, and an idea caught my mind that she 
was yet a whitewashed grave. And little by little, 
my heart was converted to Americanism. Yet let 
me widely wake up and look at these two strange 
people with an impartial eye. 

Although the color of skin is different, yet we 
are the same human beings who live nowhere 
else but on this one small planet beneath the 
marvelous sky, and with a short earthly life less 
than a century long. Then, whoje is a king, or a 
peasant ? It seems to me a man in this world is 
more like an ant which is creeping on a sugar 
bowl. The difference in mind and thought of 
each race chiefly depends upon the religion which 
they believe. We, the Orientals, were led by 
Buddha and Confucius. They taught our people 
a strict obedience to a master, father, and a woman 



132 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

to her husband. Although a man has a heart 
full of gratitude, or of love for another, yet he 
will not express it in words readily, but will wait 
for a chance to show it by his action. ** Please 
guess at and discern my heart," was common to 
use in our conversation. A person is bound to 
do everything under a sense of obligation more 
than for the exact reward of money. On the 
contrary, the Americans are a people of genuine 
sentiment. They are ready to express their feel- 
ings of joy or sorrow in language without any 
form of crookedness or in indirect ways. Hugging 
and kissing his relatives before the eyes of a 
stranger was not contrary to custom. In his 
heart there were nothing but truthfulness, sym- 
pathy, and love. Such a beautiful custom must 
be the result of the religion of Jesus, whose heart 
was filled with truthfulness, sympathy, and love ! 

*' Blest are the men whose feelings move, 
And melt with sympathy and love : 
From Christ the Lord shall they obtain 
like sympathy and love again." 



CHAPTER XIV 

IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 

My academy was strictly Christian ; the prin- 
cipal was a well-known Christian worker in the 
city. In my studies I was interested in my Bible 
above all other books. My service in the govern- 
ment hospital was very prosperous, too. The 
head doctor was a man who took thorough inter- 
est in me and gave me his confidence and love. 
I had no trouble whatever with my living, as I 
was receiving a stated salary from the government, 
besides the nice board, a room, and everything 
else. 

But, once in a while, when I thought of my 
poor Aino people, how they were living in their 
rude cabins in the severe cold weather of the 
northern province of Japan, my heart was sore 
with sympathy. At last I determined that I 
should not stay content with such an easy 
life any longer ; for I came to the United States, 
not to settle down permanently in joy and com- 
fort, but to get a true, Christian education. 
Moreover, I had so many times faced death since 
I resolved to get to America that I realized the 
life which I possessed was not mine but belonged 
to God. Consequently " I do not live to eat, I 

133 



134 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

eat to live ; " and I live not for display nor for 
vain honor, neither for earthly riches. If I can 
do some good, and commend the word and char- 
acter of Christ to the poor young men and help- 
less heathen young women, some time before my 
name is registered in an obituary, I shall be truly 
satisfied, and shall want nothing more. 

But above all, I must first learn how to teach 
and save my fellow men. Over a prima donna, 
princes, emperors, and thousands of listeners 
often rejoice, but we must remember that their 
rejoicing is at the price of her pain. Jesus died 
to give us life ; so with all his apostles and saints. 
The noble churches and all Christian institutions 
are the price of the martyr's blood. And I must 
prepare to shed mine in the future, too. I 
prayed my heavenly Father to guide me into a 
noble Christian institution where I could learn 
the right methods for my future plan. 

I learned about a large industrial school in 
Virginia. It was exactly such an institution as I 
had looked for, and desired to establish for my 
people. I wrote a letter in my broken English 
and forwarded it to the principal of that school. 
After a few days I received his answer, a hand- 
written letter which was filled with the spirit of 
love for his fellow men, and a fatherly affection 
toward this new-found stranger. Part of his 
letter read as follows : 

" I am interested in you and wish to help you 
as much as I can. Now I wish to see you. Please 



IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 135 

meet me at the Everett House,Union Square, New 
York City, next Monday morning. I will talk 
with you, and you can come with me to this 
school/* 

The word, ** I will never leave thee nor for- 
sake thee,'* became real to me. My unseen 
Father had now committed this unrepentant sin- 
ner to the hand of his faithful servant. And, 
except by God*s guidance, who could say such 
accurate and trustful words to a stranger? This 
real man, the servant of God, and the Christlike 
volunteer, was the late General Samuel Chapman 
Armstrong. 

I found now a benefactor, and a light on the 
way of my path. But, ah ! what shall I do with 
my kindhearted superintendent, the head doctor ? 
If I say that I am going to Virginia, what dis- 
appointment will I give him ? " Well ! I will 
rather speak nothing to him, but simply ask him 
for my discharge from the hospital,** I thought. 
Such was the self-restraint of the Oriental mind, 
and such was the Eastern custom ! 

When 1 asked the doctor about my discharge, 

" Oh, no ! no ! no ! what the d 1 now have you 

in your mind ? Certainly, you must stay with 
us,** cried the dignified old officer. 

But I told him my determination, and asked 
him again and again. 

He, at last, sadly said to me : " This is a free 
country. I 've no right to keep you if you have 
made up your mind to go ! " He summoned his 



136 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

high officers into his office, wrote my certificate 
and read it before the council, then handed it to 
me with a parting word. The letter read as 
follows : 

U. S. N. H., Nbw York, Sept. 4, 1889. 
I have the greatest pleasure in certifying to the invari- 
ably estimable, commendable and perfect behavior of J. O., 
during the time he has been in my employ at this Hospital, 
and I have no hesitancy in recommending him as worthy of 
implicit trust and as industrious and zealous in the discharge 
of whatever duty he may undertake. 

A. L/. O. 
Medical Director U. S. N., 
In Charge of Hospital. 

The distinguished senior officer of the United 
States Government crowned me with such words, 
although I had done him very poor service. 
With much feeling of gratitude for his kindness, 
I left the hospital. Then I went to my old 
academy to bid farewell to the friends. The prin- 
cipal gave me a worthy letter of recommenda- 
tion, and told me that he would be glad to help 
me at any time. 

The days slipped by, and then came the 
" Monday morning ** which was the promised day 
to see my unknown benefactor. 

When I went into the Everett House on Union 
Square, I found many persons in the parlor. I 
sat down and waited for the gentleman. Though I 
had never met him before, yet I knew that his title 
was the " General.*' So the appearance of that 



IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 137 

soldier, as pictured in my mind, was of a dignified 
man in full dress uniform with gold medals and 
ornaments. I did not pay attention to any gen- 
tlemen, because there was no such person in the 
parlor. After about half an hour a middle-aged, 
slender looking gentleman in citizen's dress laid 
aside his morning paper, and looked at me closely, 
and then addressed me : " Is this not my young 
man whom I love and am looking for ? " 

His face was rather pale, his mouth was small 
and tight, his eyes were narrow and long ; he had 
no moustache but had a thin beard on both of his 
cheeks, and his hair was almost white. I could 
hardly believe that such a meek man was a gal- 
lant soldier who had smashed the southern army 
into pieces. 

Half in doubt, I answered, " Is this the 
General ? " 

Now he came close to me and shook my hand. 
" Yes, yes ! very happy to meet you, my son. 
Your thought in the letter which you sent to me 
was very fine, too. I will look after you, and pay 
all your school expenses for you so far as I can. 
Come now with me to my home.** 

Was this man a soldier or a saint ? Neither 
name was too good for him. The world bestowed 
on him the title of a " genuine philanthropist.** 

We left the city by the train, and soon arrived 
at his home in Virginia. By his kindness I was 
placed in the agricultural department for practice, 
and also I attended the normal school. 



138 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

I chose agriculture for my trade, because it is 
the source of the country's wealth and because 
it was my purpose to teach it to my pupils who 
would prepare for the ministry and look for a 
foreign field, and also because I could take my 
physical exercise without losing time and money 
for it. By the kindness of the General I was 
specially permitted to take one or two months* 
practice in each section throughout the agricul- 
tural department : such as in the nursery and in 
the barn, out in the field for general farm-work, tak- 
ing care of horses, feeding hundreds of pigs and 
chickens, milking cows, making butter, out in the 
pasture, and in the butchery, etc. 

One morning, while I was working in the corn- 
field along the roadside, I met with two Japanese 
high officials who came to inspect the institution. 
One of them asked me in English: "Will this 
road lead us to the school ? " 

I thought he was a very proud and affected 
person, because he spoke to his countryman in 
English, as, generally, we never do. 

Soon nine o'clock came. I changed my clothes 
in haste, and went to the recitation room, as usual. 
There I met with the Japanese visitors, shook 
hands with them, and began to talk in my mother- 
tongue. The officials were surprised at me, and 
they said that when they met me at the road side, 
they thought I was a black farmer boy. So the 
reader may easily judge how I looked in those 
days. 



IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 139 

Once in a while the General inspected our de- 
partment, and when he found me in the field he 
always encouraged me. ** If all your countrymen 
do like yourself, Japan will soon become a first- 
class nation ! ** It was a golden word to me. 
Truly, if such a method were taken with all young 
men, we could sweep out the ugly words pauper, 
cockney, prodigal, etc., from our dictionary. 

The " industrial school " was well named. The 
General and all his officers were industrious and 
zealous in their work, and it was characteristic of 
the school. There were over fifty young lady 
teachers, besides the numerous male instructors, 
and they were all fresh from New England colleges. 
I had thought that ladies are generally weak, 
feeble, and tender, but here all the misses were 
active, earnest, studious, and sensible, like men. 
" Woman can rule as well as men ** was manifested 
to me without any doubt. One of the school 
dames went to Japan and did splendid work 
among our women and for the empress. She 
came back to her old school in triumph, and wrote 
an admirable book on our girls and women. She 
was indeed a heroine, and certainly she is a prod- 
uct of Christian America. Comparing this lady 
with our Eastern females, whom I used to call 
graceful, tender, and gentle, I find a vast differ- 
ence, and the modest Oriental womanhood can- 
not bring forth any equal. 

All my associations here were Christian, and 
even the dogs and cats in the school grounds 



140 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

seemed to have some idea of religion. I could 
no longer keep my old heathenism ; and at last 
my heart was modeled into Christian shape. By 
the help of the General and other friends, I was 
baptized in the name of the Trinity by our chap- 
lain. I cast off my old garment, and now I was 
clothed with the new raiment of light. 

Once when I was feeding the cows, the director 
of our department came and pointed out to me a 
fine Jersey cow, and told me not to give her any 
food or water for a whole day and night. I 
thought that he was doing so because he disliked 
that cow, or else he was fooling me, for it must be 
hard for any animal to live without food or water 
for a day and night. I pitied her and I could 
not sleep all that night. About ten o'clock in 
the night I went into the barn and gave the 
poor cow plenty of bran, barley, and hay. I re- 
turned to my room with much satisfaction. 

The next morning when I came to the barn I 
found a veterinary doctor, the director, and two 
or three other persons surrounding a dying cow. 

When I saw the director, he asked me : 

" Did you not feed her yesterday after I told 
you not to do so ? ** 

I did not know what answer I should give him. 

Suppose I say No, I will break the divine law ; 
but if I say Yes, what punishment will I get, 
though I did it in sympathy toward the animal ? 
Still I could not keep silent, so I told him the 
truth. 



IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 141 

" I thought so ! I asked you not to feed her 
because we were expecting that she would have a 
calf. Now you have killed both the mother and 
the calf. Two hundred dollars in property has 
gone ! 'Vhe said to me. 

On the following day the cow was dead ; the 
director had reported it to the General. I was 
summoned to his office. My feet stumbled, and 
my face became pale. 

When I went into his office the General stood 
up and closed the door ; then he put his hand 
upon my shoulder and very tenderly said : ** I do 
not regret losing a cow. I am glad you have had 
such a tangible example of the danger of dis- 
obedience by killing an animal. Plenty of people 
in this world are wanting food, but be careful 
with your sympathy. If you think that charity 
is only giving them food and money, and if you 
neglect to give them the bread of life, which is 
the Word of God, you will spoil them.*' Then 
he smiled on me gently, and that smiling face to 
me was worth more than a thousand dollars. 

By the generous treatment of the General and 
all his officers I learned everything very quickly. 
I was privately instructed also in Greek and Latin 
by a kind lady teacher. I observed all I wanted, 
and now I was looking for a higher school. The 
only trouble was the expense. I knew, however, 
that if I should ask the General he would be 
glad to help me and send me to any college or 
university ; but according to my Oriental mind, 



142 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

which was imbued with the doctrines of ancient 
magians, I did not ask him, neither did I consult 
with him about the matter. 

Soon the General went on his annual tour 
round the United States, and he did not come 
home for some time. I felt quite lonesome, though 
I had many good friends all around me. I was 
now trying to go to a higher school to prepare 
for my life work. But who would help me? No 
one ; but my unseen Benefactor was still looking 
after me with the loving word, " I will instruct 
thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt 

go." 

As the result of my earnest prayer I found 

many Christian colleges in Iowa, Oberlin, New 
Haven, Boston, New York, and in Washington 
city. But I could not ask about choosing these 
schools openly of any of my school friends ; at 
least, I feared to injure the feelings of my loved 
teachers ; and such was the peculiar Oriental 
mind, too. 

When a person is desiring or thinking some- 
thing in his mind, and cannot express it to others 
but keeps it all to himself, it gives him anxiety, 
pain, and disquiet. I was perplexed, indeed, 
and was tired from my inexpressible suffering. 
I lay on a sofa, and read Smiles' ** Self Help,** 
and there I found how Grant and his two 
brothers went to search after a fortune, and 
judge the place by lot; that is, they took the 
cane, and stood it before them and they went in 



IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 1 43 

the direction in which it fell, and became rich 
and famous. My heart was wakened again. I 
took a paper and cut it in many pieces ; I wrote 
the name of one school on each paper, and cast 
the lot. The first one which I found was the 
name of Howard University, in the city of Wash- 
ington. But I wanted to go to New Haven for 
my study. So I cast the lot again with most 
hearty prayer to. my unseen Father; and again 
I found the same name, Howard University. 
Thus, now, I decided to go to the university at 
the capital. 

Although I had no superstitious ideas, yet I 
believe divine direction comes to those who seek 
it. I do not believe in the existence of any visi- 
ble angels, but this conscious, yet indescribable 
sense of divine guidance I called an angel, a 
messenger of God to me. So I believe here that 
my way was appointed by my heavenly Father. 

Though I had no friend in the capital, yet by 
faith I made up my mind to go to the university 
as a wealthy young scholar who could help him- 
self. But I was poor, and yet rich spiritually. 
To my eyes, the gold and silver were worth 
nothing more than a piece of rock or stone. Can 
a man carry all his earthly treasures into heaven ? 
Nay ! " Nothing in our hands we bring,** and in 
the same manner we must go ! But how many 
young men are ruined inwardly and spiritually 
by their intense desire to get riches ! Remember 
that the corruption of each nation has sprung 



144 ^ JAPANESE CRUSOE 

from their worship of mammon instead of the 
true God in heaven. See the last days of Baby- 
lonia, Egypt, and the great Roman Empire. So 
must it be with each individual. 

After I made my decision to go to the univer- 
sity in the capital, there came another thought 
that if I lived in Washington until I was through 
with my course of study, I should be benefited 
by finding many new things both in public 
museums and in good society, besides the knowl- 
edge of books ; and it must be a liberal education 
for a heathen convert like myself to be in such a 
city. 

Now I addressed a letter to the President of 
the University, whose name is so well known every- 
where as the author of the famous hymn, " God 
be with you till we meet again," and other fine 
lyrics. I told him what I wanted and asked him, 
" How can I learn Christian civilization among 
these wild Indians? '* 

It is most astonishing to see how the mind and 
heart of the true sons of God are drawn to each 
other, as in the cases of David to Jonathan, and 
Paul to Timothy. Although I never met with 
the president, nor was recommended to him by 
any friend, yet, only by one communication, 
he looked through my heart at once, and knew 
this poor refugee from bottom to top. He an- 
swered my letter with the following words : 

" We have concluded that you can enter one 
of our departments. I need not remind you of 



IN AMERICAN SCHOOLS 1 45 

your duty to your kind teachers there. You 
must secure their assent and approval. You seem 
to understand that very well. It is not certain 
that we can do as well by you as they. But, if 
you come here, we will try and do the best we 
can. You can ask for me. I live on the univer- 
sity grounds. Till I see you, good-bye. 

Yours very truly," etc. 
10 



CHAPTER XV 

AT THE CAPITAL — UNIVERSITY LIFE 

For many days I had wrestled in prayer for 
the higher education, and now I had the answer. 
I could not let go this opportunity, for I had my 
long-cherished plan still in view ; and, also, I heard 
that my father in Japan was getting old and 
waiting for my return. Moreover, the spring 
term of the university had just begun, and my 
promise to the kind-hearted president must not 
be broken. For these reasons I could no longer 
wait for the arrival of the General. I left a letter 
to him, and finished all my business with the 
secretary and with a sad heart left the old Vir- 
ginian home and many good friends. 

I took a river boat and steamed up the Poto- 
mac, and soon arrived at the capital of the nation. 
The first thing that I wondered at was the Wash- 
ington obelisk or national monument, which is 
the loftiest construction of masonry in the world. 
In the city the streets are broad and paved with 
stone or concrete, and everything is nice and 
clean as in a parlor. The trees are planted along 
the sidewalks, and the whole city was decorated 
with a beautiful green. The dwellings and pub- 
lic buildings were fine and large. The char- 

146 



AT THE CAPITAL—UNIVERSITY LIFE 147 

acteristic of the people was a special refinement, 
and it seemed to me that they were not so hurried 
in the street as the New Yorkers or Bostonians. 

To the eyes of .a Washingtonian, my appear- 
ance must have been quite strange, for my old 
black hat had faded into brown, my half-broken 
shoes had not been brushed for many days. I 
was miserably clad in an old worn-out suit, with 
a big satchel in my hand, together with an old 
umbrella and a cane. 

In such a condition I entered the university 
gate. When I appeared at the secretary's office, 

"Johnny, what do you want now? '* asked the 
secretary. 

" I want to see the head man of this university," 
I answered. 

** What ! whom do you mean ? the President ? " 

" Yes, I suppose he is expecting me here." 

" Oh, you are the one whom the Doctor is so 
highly speaking of? You had better sit down 
here, sir ; I will send a boy to the President/* he 
said very courteously. 

My heart was not at ease, for in a minute or 
two I must have audience with a man who had 
the high titles of D.D. and LL.D., and who 
could undoubtedly look through a person's heart 
by one glance of his keen eye ; and whether I 
would be accepted or refused was wholly to de- 
pend on that interview. But, behold, when the 
door of the secretary's office was opened, there 
came in a gentleman somewhere near sixty years 



148 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

of age, with a brisk business air, but clothed with 
meekness and humility. He introduced himself 
to this half-read scholar, and with kind welcome 
words he clasped my hand unusually tight. 

" Why ! " I said to myself, " what country does 
this man belong to ? " And in my heart I an- 
swered, " A Christian country." I asked at once 
for daily Bible study, and was told I should have 
all the Bible I wanted. 

Although it was my first interview with the 
gentleman, yet I soon felt as though I had known 
him for years, and this feeling must have been 
the same with the president, for I noticed it in 
all his ways of talking. He soon accompanied 
me to his residence, and introduced me to his 
family. It was about midday, and after I had 
dined with his family, the kind Doctor invited 
me to his private study. He handed me a family 
Bible and bade me read the twenty-second chapter 
in the book of Proverbs. After I read it, he 
knelt and offered a prayer to God, — the tenderest 
prayer that I ever heard from the voice of man. 

" I know men, and I tell you that Jesus Christ 
was not a man," was the saying of Napoleon 
Bonaparte. So I might say, " I know men, and 
that this president was not simply a man but a 
Christian." Indeed, outside of true Christendom, 
where can we find such a godly race? All 
persons have the same sensibilities ; that is, if a 
white man can test sugar as sweet, a black man 
also will test it the same ; and so through all the 



AT THE CAPITAL— UNIVERSITY LIFE 149 

range of his faculties. Then, we must know that 
every one can tell something about good and 
bad. If Christianity is a bad religion, how is it, 
since its Founder taught only three years, that his 
disciples, who were the meanest fishermen, carried 
it along the shores of Galilee, and finally it has 
spread all over Europe and America, and is 
spreading over Asia and Africa, and all the islands 
of the sea ? Ah, stupid idolaters ! how long will 
they stay in their blindness and keep away from 
Him who is the true Light which came from the 
bosom of our Father in heaven and lighteth every 
man that cometh into the world ? 

A few years ago, at the Chicago World's Fair, 
a company of Japanese Buddhist priests came 
and preached to the American public. In the 
city of Washington the priests had a distinguished 
audience, and among them was the wife of the 
president, and some other leading society ladies. 
After these priests went back to their home land, 
they said that the Americans were eagerly seek- 
ing after the mercy and blessing of Buddha ; and 
they were already tired of the corrupt religion of 
Jesus. I must laugh at these obstinate priests, 
for they could not make a distinction between 
science and religion. A few Americans listened 
to them as lecturers on an ancient philosophy or 
science, and that was all. The priests had not 
sense enough even to understand about the gen- 
erosity of the people of Christendom, who had 
treated them with such brotherly love and cour- 



ISO A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

tesy, not at all as the first Christian missionaries to 
their country were treated, who were cruelly per- 
secuted and put to death. 

Now, my American patron, the president, 
knew my heart better than my own parents ; and 
the close friendship between the Doctor and 
myself was increased day by day. He called me 
" Isaiah," and I was often his page and companion 
whenever he was invited to various noted public 
meetings, and by his introduction, I met with 
several illustrious men of the day. 

One of the great missionary meetings, the 
Moody meeting, is certainly worthy to be recorded 
here. That wonderful man had labored in the 
capital about thirty days. The meeting was held 
in the largest hall in the city. Every time the 
service was opened by the great choir of sixteen 
hundred voices, massed on a rising, semicircular 
platform. Mr. Sankey's solo singing was most 
marvelous. All noise instantly ceased when he 
took the seat to sing. On the platform, beside 
Mr. Moody, were nearly all the leading pastors 
of the city, prominent professional men, members 
of Congress, the president's wife and her lady 
friends. Over six thousand people made up the 
regular evening audience during the thirty days' 
assembly. Every morning, afternoon, and even- 
ing, Mr. Moody preached with mighty power. 
I cannot fully describe this eminent Christian 
soldier. I might say one word, however, that he 
was " a man sent from God," and that would be 



AT THE CAPITAL— UNIVERSITY LIFE 151 

sufficient for him and for all. On the last even- 
ing of the mission over four thousand Christians 
rose to testify that they had been revived ; and I 
was one of them. Soon I was kindly recom- 
mended by President Rankin to a well-known 
pastor in the city, and I became a member of his 
blessed church which has one thousand fellow 
members. It was the church of which he himself 
had been fifteen years pastor. 

The president was always very busy, and had 
no resting-day in the week, not even on Sunday, 
as he preached on that day in the college chapel. 
But whenever he had a vacant hour we both took 
a walk and visited the public places in the city, 
such as the White House, the Capitol, libraries, 
the National Museum, the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, the art gallery, the Zoological Park, and 
various public gardens. The most worthy to 
mention here was the capitol. Here are some 
of my notes about it : " It occupies a lofty seat on 
the western edge of the plateau of Capitol Hill. 
The surrounding park comprises about fifty-two 
acres. The building is 751 feet by 324 feet, in- 
cluding porticos. The whole structure is of the 
Corinthian order. The original building was of 
Potomac Creek freestone, but an enormous mar- 
ble terrace and grand stairway erected on the 
north, west, and south gives the structure an im- 
posing appearance. The interior of the capitol is 
divided into the House of Representatives, the 
Senate Chamber, Supreme Court, Library, Ro- 



152 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

tunda and Statuary Hall, etc. Entering the capitol 
by the east front, a visitor is at once struck with 
the fine appearance of the door. It is all of 
bronze, and cost $30,000." I feel sorry that I can 
describe only the outward building, and cannot at- 
tempt to show the backbone of the capitol, that 
is, the members of the house. But it is enough for 
a person if he knows that the chaplains of the Con- 
gress are both blind men — blind, but they see all 
spiritual things with a most clear eye, and we 
should judge no man by his bodily eyes ! 

The most disappointing thing to a visitor's ex- 
pectation is the White House, the^ official resi- 
dence of the President, comparing it with the 
homes of the emperors and kings in the old 
world. There are no military officials at its gates. 
A stranger may enter without obstruction or 
questions. The mansion is a plain two-storied 
building. But such is the plainness and simplicity 
of the American republic and the home of liberty ! 
Once I saw the inauguration of a new president. 
It was a cold, sleety day in March, yet the new- 
comer rode in his carriage from the capitol to the 
White House with bared head, taking off his silk 
hat almost all the way, as the crowds of people 
cheered him unceasingly. Comparing this to the 
coronation of the present Czar of Russia, which 
was conducted with enormous extravagance, there 
was a vast difference. The characteristics of the 
days of the "Mayflower" and the old Pilgrim 
Fathers are still carried out, and it is the spirit of 



AT THE CAPITAL^UNIVERSITY LIFE 



153 



America ; but if she loses it, her condition will be 
like the salt which has lost its savor. 

The Doctor and I were not only visiting and 
walking together, but for our physical exercise 
we both went to the market every day in the 
early morning before breakfast, to buy a day's 
provisions and other things. One day we bought 
a lawn-mower. I carried it all the way up to our 
house. The Doctor told me to draw it instead of 
carrying it, but I did not obey him. 

" I suppose you have forgotten all your lessons 
in science. The machine has two wheels, and 
you must let them work instead of using your 
hands," was his advice. 

" No, no ! this is my principle, not to depend 
on others, so far as my strength will allow. But, 
of course, for my greater work, such as saving 
men, I must wholly depend upon good-hearted 
benefactors,*' I said to him, and it was more like 
a boy preaching philosophy to Plato. But such 
discussions were always brought up while we were 
walking on the streets of Washington. 

At home, I was the Doctor's pet, but in the 
recitation-room he was a very strict master, and 
often he was pretty hard on me as well as on all 
his pupils, in catechetics and examinations. Some- 
times I appealed to my affectionate mistress, 
and the Doctor was always playfully taken to task 
by the madam for his treatment of his boy. 

In the president's classes I studied moral phi- 
losophy, Christian evidences, and other high 



154 ^ JAPANESE CRUSOE 

branches of science. I had eight other classes to 
attend every day, as my studies were extended 
into two different departments. I liked all the 
professors. The professor of literature and ora- 
tory was the jolliest man I ever met. Once I was 
chosen to speak at the oratorical contest be- 
fore the large public audience, the judges being 
some of the leading men in the capital. The place 
was the college chapel. Everything was in 
grand style. The hall was decorated with colors, 
the band played, and there were six speakers in 
all. After the young scholars presented their em- 
phatic discourses, the chief judge, who was one 
of the editors of the Washington ** Star," an- 
nounced the opinion of his fellow judges. I did 
not get a prize, but he conferred upon me this 
title instead : " Born English orator.** And then, 
the pride of my loving Doctor and the mis- 
tress was very excessive ! All my other public 
speeches, such as those delivered at the anniver- 
sary of Washington's Birthday, presenting the 
president's portrait, which was drawn by myself, 
to the First Congregational Church, and in vari- 
ous missionary meetings in the city, were highly 
spoken of by the Washington papers. Everybody 
was kind to me. With most humble and thankful 
heart, I must return all my honor to my teachers. 
My instructor in drawing and painting was a 
good'hearted, refined lady, whose father had been 
a brigadier-general in the war. 

I drew several portraits of distinguished per- 



AT THE CAPITAL—UNIVERSITY LIFE 155 

sonages, and earned more than a hundred dollars 
during one school year. The ** Standard/' a 
weekly paper, published the following notice : 
" Among the attractions in the University 
Chapel is a new portrait of Professor Bascom, by 
Mr. J. Dyabe of Japan. This young artist has done 
other very fine work, having made three crayons 
of ex-Senator Pomeroy, two of Madame Sono, 
and one of Doctor Rankin. Professor Bascom's 
portrait, too, is a very faithful and excellent one." 

The professor of history and ** dead languages" 
was a very devoted, strict, hard master. If his 
pupil missed one word in a sentence or the exact 
date of a certain event in the pages of history, 
he would not pass his examination. Largely on 
that account, when we reached the end of the 
senior term, there remained only five young 
men, though while we were in the junior year 
there were more than a dozen classmates. 

Although my kind president was looking after 
my interests and all my needs, yet it was my 
nature to hate to ask anything of my friends, or 
to depend at all upon the care of others. So it 
was my usual custom to go out every summer 
vacation to work and earn some money for my 
own expenses. 

One summer vacation day, in the city of New 
York, a friend of mine, who was a member of a 
respectable club, said to me : ** Do prepare for us 
a lecture on Japan. It would be interesting to 
us, indeed ! " I followed his advice, and did pre- 



156 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

pare a lecture entitled " An Evening Trip to 
Japan." He secured many places for me, at 
which I lectured, with good enough success to 
encourage me, though I think my English was 
better written than spoken. 



CHAPTER XVI 

LECTURER — VISITING EUROPE 

The sweet summer was quickly gone, and the 
bright autumn took its place in the world where 
the seasons are like a treadmill. I returned to 
my school again with good health and strength. 
My kind president and the mistress were greatly 
rejoiced when they found me at home again. 
The madam, with her motherly smile, was busy 
ordering her old English lady, the cook, to prepare 
some of the choicest food which I liked the best. 
" The fish and rice is better for *im ! " was the 
cunning joke of a sweet Irish waitress, also in 
the president's house. 

Here I was in my busy life again with all 
branches of study. But whenever I had time, as 
during the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays, 
I delivered my lecture at several public halls 
in the city. The Washington ** Star,'* a largely 
circulated daily paper, published the following 
flattering notice : 

" * An Evening Trip to Japan * was the title of 
a lecture delivered at Carroll Hall last evening 
by J. Oyabe, of Japan. The lecturer is one of 
the brightest of the many clever young Japanese 
gentlemen who have come to this country to 

157 



IS8 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

put a latter-day finish on their education. The 
Japanese history, architecture, art, scenery, cus- 
toms, and daily life were all discoursed upon most 
delightfully, while a large number of choice stere- 
opticon views added pictorial attractiveness to 
the faithful description given by the lecturer. 
Mr. Oyabe, who has many friends in this city, is 
an attractive speaker, who has five dififerent lan- 
guages at his command. He had a large audience, 
who listened attentively to his interesting talk." 

I knew I hardly deserved all that, but it en- 
couraged me. 

I lectured also in Orange, New Jersey, and in 
Pennsylvania, and found many nice friends, and 
earned enough money to pay all my traveling 
expenses at home and abroad. But this is like 
the folly of the great apostle, and must be for- 
given. 

In the following summer vacation I had planned 
to visit Europe, not to take a trip to Paris or 
Berlin, neither to St. Petersburg, but to the old 
European cities generally, not so often visited by 
pleasure-seeking travelers. I decided to go to 
the cities of Portugal, Spain, and some of the 
islands, such as Madeira and the Canaries. I 
also had a plan to journey through the interior of 
England. 

I thought that if I had any companion it 
would be troublesome for me, for I was going 
round the old world with not more than one hun- 
dred and fifty dollars in my pocket. I started 



LECTURER—VISITING EUROPE 159 

alone from New York, even without announcing 
my departujre to my friends, because I wanted to 
save them the trouble of giving me their parting 
words and presents ; and because I did not like 
to let my well-wishers see how humble was my 
departure. 

I bought a cheap ticket for London, and went 
on board the steamer. Soon the swift sailer was 
threading its way under full head of steam, and 
marched over the deep. There was nothing 
worthy to mention on board the steamer except 
the gaily dressed young ladies and thoughtless 
cockneys, arm in arm, drinking and sometimes 
dancing all night. They tried all the luxuries 
they could find on board. If young men and 
women can be prosperous in that way, we, the 
toilful students, are very foolish indeed, but the 
happiest world does not always belong to such 
lazy prodigals. 

Early one morning, after spending seven days 
at sea, sharp whistles announced the arrival of 
the steamer, and we were safely landed at the 
great city of London. 

I made quite a book during my four months' 
trip in Europe. But my limited space allows 
me only to make a little use of it in this narra- 
tive. 

I had a very serious time procuring my lodg- 
ing in London. The reason was that my purse 
did not allow me to stay in a great hotel like the 
Albemarle, Brown's or Charing Cross, and pay 



i6o A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

more than one pound sterling for a room and a 
meal. Instead of going there I found a private 
boarding-house, and for the cost of a night in a 
grand hotel I stayed one whole week, and found 
myself comfortably lodged and well cared for 
during the time I was in London. I visited the 
British Museum, Houses of Parliament, West- 
minster Abbey, St. Paul's Cathedral, Bank of 
England, Kew and Vauxhall gardens. Crystal 
Palace, the Colonial Exhibition, and some other 
public places. I also observed the hidden side 
of London with a dark lantern ; and it was a very 
strange sight for a stranger, too. In the darkest 
quarters, where no sight-seeing traveler or even a 
Salvation Army man could reach, fhere lie many 
an interesting lesson of practical sociology and 
pastoral theology. But how foolish a minister of 
religion who refuses to visit such a place for his 
investigations ! So it seemed to me. 

I spent about six days and was now ready 
to leave the city. Then, for the first time, I visited 
our Japanese Legation and the Japan Society in 
London. One of my countrymen kindly urged 
me to make an engagement to meet friends at the 
club ; but I declined this offer and told him that 
I came to study the kind of society which ordi- 
nary travelers could not observe. I asked him, 
however, to secure for me a hall to deliver one 
lecture, so that I might make a little addition to 
my fund for traveling expenses. After he had 
examined all my American indorsements and 



LECTURER—VISITING EUROPE i6l 

newspaper notices, he arranged for me a public 
hall. I lectured before a good-sized audience, 
and was very well received. 

The next day, I disguised myself again as a 
poor traveler, putting on an old coat, wearing a 
cheap one-shilling hat, and a pair of old boots, 
and started on my long pedestrian journey. 

In the outskirts of the city I went into a res- 
taurant to get my last supper in London. 

The pretty English waitress inquired of me: 
" Are you from Japan, my dear ? *' 

I answered, " Yes." 

** Did you hear the lecture on Japan by one of 
your countrymen last evening at the Music 
Hall ? " she asked me with a soft smile, but her 
gentle words made melody in my heart. 

It was my promise that I would tell nothing 
but the truth in my whole life ; but to her in such 
a case, of course, I could not say that I was the 
very one. So in pretence I put on an air of not 
knowing, and said : 

" Was it ? Then, what do you think about our 
lecturer ? '* 

" Oh, he was just like an angel ! I wish I 
could go to Japan,** was her affable expres- 
sion. 

Although a strict economist, yet I was obliged 

to give her a silver florin for her trouble and 

kind speech while the supper itself cost me not 

more than a shilling. 

From London I started for Plymouth, passing 
II 



i62 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

through Portsmouth and Southampton. Tramp- 
ing through England is wonderfully interesting 
and amusing. There are no negroes to insult, 
neither wild " Injins " to shoot as in the New 
World, but everywhere amiable old folks and 
lovely maidens and angels without wings. The 
scenery is natural and beautiful as it is pictured 
by Birket Foster and other noted artists, and by 
the word-painting of many poets. The hills and 
glens were all covered with old trees, wild flowers, 
and green vines. The ruined castles and old 
cathedrals were robed in ivy and moss. The 
sheep and cows were walking slowly along the 
silent streams in the valleys, the lambs skip- 
ping and playing on the lawns, and the birds 
singing sweetly in the woods. The land itself is 
the mother of Tennyson, Wordsworth, and other 
saints of poetry ! 

A traveler in England will also notice the 
generosity of the simple-hearted country people. 
Once, in the vicinity of Portsmouth, I could not 
find a hotel in which to spend the night. I went 
into a farmhouse and asked for lodging. The 
old mistress of the house welcomed me very 
heartily. She gave me a nice warm dinner and 
the best room in the house. When I started off 
the next morning I paid her some money, but 
she gave it right back, saying courteously : 
" Do n*t trouble yourself. We must thank you 
for your pleasant company." 

She looked poor, but her pocket was full of 



LECTURER— VISITING EUROPE 163 

gold which she earned by her own labor. These 
steady, honest mothers and daughters are the 
corner-stone of Old England. 

A week was spent in visiting Portsmouth, 
Southampton, Salisbury, and Wilton. Then I 
passed on to Plymouth, where I spent the Sab- 
bath at the old St. Andrew's cathedral. One 
beautiful day when I was in Plympton Devon, in 
the near vicinity of Plymouth, and visiting the 
old historical spots, such as the ancient grammar 
school, St. Mary's Church, and the ruined Norman 
Castle, I met with a half-dozen young country 
maidens who had come also to visit the old 
place. 

"Where did you come from?" one of them 
asked me in a polite and very friendly manner. 

" I came from America a few weeks ago. I 
like this country, and certainly I admire it, and 
you can be proud of it, too," I answered. 

"You came from America?" she asked me 
again. 

" Oh, no, Emma, do n't believe him. He did n't 
come from America, because he speaks our lan- 
guage so well," exclaimed another maiden. 

I told her that I was born in Japan, but I had 
lived in America for some time, and that was the 
reason why I could speak English. 

One of them looked at my face very watchfully 
and said: ** Strange ! the Americans use our 
English language, too ! " 

A Columbus is still needed to teach her the 



i64 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

existence of the New World, but such was the 
natural beauty and the childlike simplicity of an 
English lass. 

I visited many old villages and houses where 
the Pilgrim Fathers were hidden during the time 
of the persecution. I left the old city, Plymouth, 
and turned my feet to Liverpool through Bristol 
and Birmingham. From Liverpool I took a 
steamer and crossed the Channel to Oporto in 
Portugal, from which I went to Madrid, the capi- 
tal of Spain, and the old city of Lisbon. I spent 
two days in Lisbon, then took a small coasting 
steamer and sailed for Madeira Island. 

At first when I arrived in America I found 
everything was very different from my Oriental 
home ; but now I came from America to these old 
countries, I found that there was no strangeness 
in them at all. The customs of the old European 
countries are very much the same as in America 
or in England, and it must be familiar to any 
American or English reader. So here I will just 
bring out a few notes from my travels concerning 
the Madeira Island : — 

"The Madeira Island is one of the most charm- 
ing spots in the world. The city, containing 
several old stone buildings, is situated along 
the seashore. The streets of the city are all 
paved with stone. The people use sedan chairs 
and hammocks borne by stalwart natives. Every- 
thing here seems very old, but, at the time of Col- 
umbus, they must have been adding beauty to 



LECTURER— VISITING EUROPE 165 

the new city. Everywhere on this island figs and 
grapes are plentiful. Wine is the principal mer- 
chandise. When the island was first settled by 
the Portuguese, sugar was one of the principal 
commodities, but this was given up after the 
West Indies were brought under culture. Some 
cane is still cultivated, but, instead of making 
sugar, it is all crushed to make fire-water. Along 
the street I met with soldiers and policemen. I 
noticed that their uniform was old and defaced, 
and some of them were walking on the street 
with bare feet. From their appearance I must 
say that the finances of the government must be 
in a poor condition. I was told that the laws are 
easy so long as the heavy taxes are paid. No 
passport is required by the visitor when he lands ; 
but be sure he must get or buy one when he de- 
parts from the island. * Welcome the coming, 
bleed the parting guest,* may be said by the 
Madeira officers.** ' 

All through my European travels, I had prac- 
tised a very close economy, so far as I could. 
At first when I landed in Madeira I found on 
the street a boy who could speak some English. 
I promised to pay him one shilling a day if he 
would guide me through the island. The boy 
was glad to accept it, as he had no. special 
work to do to earn his bread. I told him to take 
me to a bookstore. So he did, and I bought a 
guide-book of Madeira which was translated into 
English. I read it carefully, and directed the 



l66 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

boy to take me from one place to another through- 
out the city and the country. 

** O Master ! you sabe Madeira more better 
me countryman/* said my little guide in surprise. 

One day we took our expedition up to the 
beautiful mount, or mountain, on whose summit 
the old Mount Church is situated. Its trouble- 
some altitude of three hundred feet above sea- 
level makes access difficult. I hired the native 
hammock-men and we were carried up in ham- 
mocks as a wounded soldier is carried by the 
Red Cross men. We visited the Mount Church. 
It was a large stone building in old Roman style. 
When I and my little interpreter went in, I saw 
four monks in their study. I talked to them 
through my interpreter ; the priests took great 
interest in me. They gave me fruits and cakes, 
and showed me all possible kindness. 

One of the elder priests asked me, " Do you 
believe in our Lord Jesus Christ ? ** 

" Yes, sir, I do," I answered. 

" Are you a Catholic ? " he inquired of me in 
earnest. 

" Yes, I am.*' 

I did not mean to say, however, that I was a 
Romanist, but a believer in the Catholic Christian 
Church. But the priest thought I was a Roman 
Catholic. He ordered his monks to light candles 
in the main hall. He put on his priestly robe, 
and took me to the place of worship. There I 
saw many earthen models of human feet, hands, 



LECTURER'-VISITING EUROPE 167 

eyes, noses, and heads which were all hung on 
the walls of the hall. The priest explained to 
me that they were brought up by the patients 
who suffered in their hands or feet or other mem- 
bers of their body and had been made whole by 
the blessed holy water. The influence of the 
holy water on these superstitious people was 
more like the description of the effect of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, which cures diseases of every kind. 
To me, the house looked more like a surgical 
museum than a place of worship. 

Now the priest took me before a gilded figure 
of the Virgin Mary, and told me, through my in- 
terpreter : ** My Catholic young man, worship it 
most reverently in your Catholic way ! " 

But I did not know the manners of worship 
which the Romanists practise ; besides, I would 
never worship a figure though it be the Mother 
of Jesus. So I stood still and looked at the im- 
age, which is the fine work of an old artist. 

" Ho ! young man, do worship respectfully, do 
worship ! " The priest urged me again. 

I told him that I was worshiping God in my 
heart, and that would be all right. The narrow- 
minded monks looked in each other's faces with 
surprise, and one of them said : " Certainly the 
American way of worship must be different from 
ours.** 

After I had stayed about a week in Madeira 
Island, I took a steamer for the old French city, 
Marseilles. We saw several old-fashioned fishing 



l68 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

and coasting vessels tossing upon the surface of 
the Mediterranean Sea. When we met them, we 
shook our hats and handkerchiefs toward them, 
and the sailors saluted us in the same way. 
Human nature is the same everywhere ! Soon 
our steamer was laid beside the great wharf. 
Here again are a few notes from my journal : 

" When the arrival of the steamer was evidently 
near, the sailors were busy concealing the ship's 
cargo of Madeira wine and tobacco. I suppose 
it was because the French customs are very rig- 
orous on these things. Soon a company of cus- 
tom-house officers came on board to examine us. 
But the German captain was too smart for them. 
He invited them all into the saloon to discuss a 
bottle. After a while the officers came on deck 
in a staggering manner. They were hooked by 
the captain's whiskey like a fish on a bait. They 
went on shore with gratitude and understanding. 

" The streets of Marseilles are as clean as in the 
city of Washington, well paved and planted with 
trees. The buildings are fine, and they are 
mostly six or seven stories high. The people in 
general are small, but they are wonderfully smart, 
intelligent, and sociable. The restaurants and 
coffee-shops are plenty everywhere. The hotel 
bills were comparatively cheap ; people ate more 
vegetables and fish, and wine was used in place 
of water. 

" I visited the old palace of Napoleon HI, the 
museum, art gallery, several old castles and 



LECTURER—VISITING EUROPE 169 

forts, and the cathedral of Santa Maria, which I 
may call a stone mountain of human labor. On 
the return to my hotel, I missed my way, and 
wandered from one corner of the street to an- 
other. In that way I passed through several 
nasty, miserable streets, — such places as I saw jn 
England, Spain, and elsewhere. I thanked God 
that I had observed the hind side of the proud 
society and the old civilization.** 

From the port of Marseilles I took a steamer 
and sailed straight to New York. I had been 
through the wonderful Old World, but there was 
none so lovely and attractive as home, sweet 
home ; and my heart went over the sea to my 
old friends and my own American home. 

** Take me back to home and mother, 

I am weary wandering here, 
There can never be another 

Spot on earth that is so dear. 
Tho* I roam 'mid scenes of splendor, 

Yet my heart is filled with pain, 
And a longing, soft and tender, 

Whispers, * Take me home again*.** 



CHAPTER XVII 

STUDYING AT NEW HAVEN 

Though a traveler may not be in a hurry, yet 
he will not feel happy when the steamer in which 
he is taking a trip is running too slowly. Neither 
is it a very pleasant thing to see another steamer 
coming far behind and within an hour or two 
passing his own slow sailer. The boat which I 
took from Marseilles was an extraordinarily sloth- 
ful one. I felt rather sorry for our captain every 
time we came into connection with a fast steamer 
that passed us. In the middle of the Atlantic 
one day, however, we met with the U.S.S. " Lan- 
caster/* an old wooden cruiser on the way from 
her Asiatic station. Here, for the first time, 
our slow steamer overcame her adversary, the old 
American man-of-war. Many of the German sail- 
ors and English passengers laughed at the old 
cruiser. They said that such an antiquated 
wooden vessel was really good for nothing against 
the modern steel warships. An American gen- 
tleman on board the steamer explained to them 
that his government was now preparing to build 
powerful ships for a proposed American navy. 
But I thought it was very foolish talk. If the old 

countries laugh at the New World, let them 

170 



STUDYING AT NEW HAVEN 171 

laugh. America's mission to the world should 
be to teach freedom and everlasting peace, and 
to build up the kingdom of Christ. If this be 
true, then why does she need to increase her sea- 
power in order to be on a level with the old 
kingdoms and empires ? If she wishes, however, 
to go back to the ideas of old monarchical gov- 
ernments, let her first break down Father Wash- 
ington's republic. 

I did not care who condemned America, for my 
heart was fixed upon her as my adopted home. 
When my eyes first caught sight of the Sandy 
Hook light-boat, my heart was filled with joy. 
The progress of the slow steamer seemed to me 
more slow than ever. Soon, however, the enor- 
mous hull of the ship passed between forts 
Hamilton and Tompkins, and within a few hours 
we cast anchor in New York harbor. 

It was a beautiful day in autumn, and it was 
just the opening of the school term. So, without 
delaying a moment, I returned to my old school. 
There my loving old president and the mistress 
of the house were so glad to find me again at their 
home. When the eyes of the mistress first fell 
upon me, she said : " There comes my boy, my 
son, my Isaiah ! ** 

The very next day I was busy again with my 
studies. In every one of our studies we were 
very strictly examined, from term to term, and 
thus we were tried critically as gold and silver 
are tried in the fire. Toward the end of the 



172 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

senior year all unqualified members were left out, 
and there remained only five scholars in the class 
that endured to the end and were saved. When 
the last day of the course came it was my lot to 
speak as the valedictorian of our class. The 
" Washington Post," a standard morning paper in 
the capital published the following notice : 

" There were five graduates, all of whom were 
down for addresses, but Mr. Young. Mr. C. H. 
Edmunds spoke on * Saved by faith ; ' Mr. S. S. 
McKinney, on * Samuel Crowther ; * * The man 
needed to-day,' was earnestly presented by Mr. 
W. P. Bradley ; and Mr. Jenichiro Oyabe, the last 
speaker, and a native of Japan, took for his theme 
' Religions in Japan.* He held the close atten- 
tion of the. audience and called forth much ap- 
plause. Singing by the President's Glee Club 
was interspersed throughout the exercises. The 
diplomas were conferred upon the graduates by 
the President of the University, who also ad- 
dressed fitting words to the class." 

One day, the president came to my room full of 
joy. He handed me " The Advance," a Chicago 
paper, and also a copy of " The Missionary Her- 
ald." He told me that if I read both of these 
papers, I would find some news about my father in 
Japan. I read them carefully, and I found a long 
and interesting article about his conversion and 
baptism. " The Missionary Herald " said that my 
father was first converted by reading a book 
called " Sources of Heavenly Things " which was 



STUDYING AT NEW HA VEN 173 

written in Chinese by Rev. Dr. Martin of Peking 
University, China. Undoubtedly my conversion 
in America, and studies under the care of Chris- 
tian friends, must also have had a strong effect 
upon his heart. 

Shortly afterward I received a letter from an 
American friend, a Washington lady, who went 
to Japan, and was an eyewitness of my father's 
baptism. In that letter she says : 

" And how rejoiced you will be when you re- 
ceive his letter that tells you he is no longer * a 
heathen,* as you called him to me, but a baptized 
Christian ! Your father came up here last Satur- 
day to have a talk with Dr. Davis and others on 
the subject of baptism, and to read to them a 
statement of his belief. The missionaries were 
satisfied with his statement, and the only ques- 
tion was, should he be baptized up here on the 
mountain, or at the little church in the town 
where he lives. He wanted very much to be 
baptized on this mountain, and it was settled that 
the decision should be made by several Japanese 
Christian teachers. They decided he should be 
baptized there. So in the evening of the 9th 
quite a large assembly of Japanese and foreigners 
collected in the chapel tent, and we had a very 
interesting and solemn service. A young theo- 
logical student presided, reading the Bible and 
making a prayer, and then telling the Japanese 
friends the story of your father's conversion. 
Then Dr. Davis told him the meaning of being 



174 ^ JAPANESE CRUSOE 

* baptized into the name of the Father, and of the 
Son, and of the Holy Ghost.* I suppose I can 
little understand what it may cost your father to 
come out boldly on Christ's side. It may lose 
him his place, and his standing in society. But 
God is able to keep him firm.** 

I also received several other interesting reports 
from my American and Japanese friends. In one 
of Dr. Davis* letters he says : 

" It was indeed a wonderful Providence which 
brought your father to come so far and seek 
baptism at my hand ; and his is a wonderful story 
of how God leads a man, and of the power of his 
truth upon the heart. I hope you will study the 
practical side of Christianity, and be ready to 
help push earnest practical spiritual work in 
Japan. It seems to me that, if possible, you had 
better come back this year, on your father's 
account, and it may be better for you not to be 
away from your country too long.** 

Now my question was whether I should go 
back to Japan as I was advised by Dr. Davis, or 
remain in America and spend more time in study. 
It is the impulse of my nature to do what I 
want to do, vehemently, and to complete it thor- 
oughly from the beginning to the end. In the 
previous chapter, the reader will remember how 
I wanted to come to New Haven, at the time 
when I chose my school. Now the time had 
come, and surely I must fulfil my old idea. 

I gave up the plan of going back to Japan for 



STUDYING AT NEW HA VEN 175 

the present, and, instead of it, I made an applica- 
tion to the President of the University in New 
Haven, endorsed by my pastor and a lady friend 
of mine who was President of the W. C. T. U. in 
the city of Washington. In reply, I was per- 
mitted to enter that university as one of the 
members who could receive a scholarship. 

A little over seventy-three miles from the city of 
New York, in the old town of New Haven, stands 
the famous seat of learning known as Yale Uni- 
versity. It was founded in 1701, and in 1718, 
the name of Yale College was given by the 
trustees of the school, in honor of the benefac- 
tions of Elihu Yale. There are thirty-five main 
college buildings, mostly located in "Yale 
Campus.** 

When Goethe first visited the old city of Rome, 
he said : " Now I have reached the capital of the 
whole world.** So when I entered the old Uni- 
versity town, it seemed to me that I had reached 
the university of all universities. The college 
buildings, such as Osborn, White, Vanderbilt, and 
Dwight halls and Battell Chapel were simply 
grand with their Greek and Roman styles of 
architecture. When I arrived, I found my room 
already assigned in one of the dormitories. 
Thus, the very same day I was settled and felt 
perfectly at home. All the professors and students 
were very friendly to me. All whom I met gave 
me the cordial salutation, " I am very happy to 
meet you : I hope you will feel at home here.** 



176 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

Let me describe here very briefly the members 
of the divinity school, which is the comer-stone 
of that university. 

When I first visited the president he asked 
me, " How long have you been in America? " 

I told him that I reached New York in 1888. 

" Oh, you are quite an old American citizen ! 
I wish you could settle yourself right in this city," 
was his remark. 

The senior Doctors, Day, Harris, Fisher, and 
Brastow, were all gray-haired saints. But at heart 
they were more like young schoolboys who care 
for nothing in the world but their studies. In 
their minds, as it seemed to me, there was no idea of 
becoming old. Doctor Day, then the dean of the 
Divinity school, asked me one day to teach him 
Japanese. I told him that it was impossible for 
an old gentleman like himself to study such a 
difficult language. 

" Oh, no, no ! I may go to Japan some day ; 
can I not ? ** was his reply, and yet he was above 
seventy years of age. 

With such youthful energy they instruct their 
pupils. Although there is no prescribed law, 
yet a pupil naturally pays respect and honor to 
these men on account of their manner of truth- 
fulness and humility. Professors Stevens, Por- 
ter, Curtis, Blackman, Fairbanks, and Curry, 
were all middle-aged, fine, useful scholars of this 
day. In the class-room, there was no fixed wall 
between these men and the students. They 



STUDYING AT NEW HA VEN 177 

instructed their pupils, not with vain and assum- 
ing manners, as a dignified professor in his 
scholastic uniform and wig is accustomed to do 
in the old world, but friendliness and cordiality 
were their motto. Often we were invited to a 
" social gathering " in each of these gentlemen's 
families. There the professor, his wife, and their 
children and even the pet dog and cat were all 
gathered in the parlor, and spent most delightful 
evenings with conversation and singing. 

The students, too, were all brotherly to each 
other. It seems to me that they had no idea of 
race prejudice in their minds. I was often asked 
by my classmates about certain questions in our 
daily lessons, or sometimes they would ask me 
the spelling of an English word. If they had 
thought of me as a foreigner, they would not 
have done so ; but, in fact, they did not make any 
distinction of race, but believed in the brother- 
hood of man. Their hearts were broad and 
straight, like a palm tree which has no crooked 
branches on its trunk. But the heart of our 
Japanese students in general is more like a coffee- 
tree which has many small branches on its trunk, 
and fruitful wliile yet in its youth. An American 
student takes more time to grow, and, long after 
his graduation, he brings forth abundant fruits. 

One day I was assigned to preach in the Mar- 
quand Chapel before the Senior class and the 
professor of homiletics and oratory. It was dur- 
ing the war between China and Japan. So I took 
12 



lyS A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

for my subject, " The Chinese- Japanese war and 
Christianity/* After I had delivered my dis- 
course many criticisms were offered by the stu- 
dents. At last, Doctor Brastow, who was the pro- 
fessor of homiletics, rose and addressed the class : 

" Gentlemen ! I sympathize with Mr. Oyabe. 
In this university, we have had several students 
from Japan, but I regard Mr. Oyabe as the second 
Japanese gentleman who speaks fluent English 
that I have ever heard since I took this chair. 
The first one whom I mention was Mr. Nakajima, 
who is now a professor at the Imperial Univer- 
sity in Tokyo." 

The Doctor has known me ever since, and has 
taken great interest in me. 

Once I got the grippe, a peculiar disease prev- 
alent during that year. My health became poor, 
and I was much affected with weakness, which 
increased day after day. Doctor Brastow visited 
my room one day and advised me to take regular 
exercise at the gymnasium every day. Then he 
gave me a note addressed to the director of the 
University gymnasium, and handed me also 
fifteen dollars for the admission fee and some 
other expenses. I went there daily after the 
recitation was closed, and I soon became a skil- 
ful master in some forms of the gymnastic art. 
One day, when I was chosen to play our favorite 
basket-ball, the director of the gymnasium said 
to the captain, " That Jap plays like a regu- 
lar tiger ! " My countryman, the schoolmate, 



STUDYING AT NEW HAVEN 179 

told me, however, that it was too boyish for a 
scholar to play such a thing. But I did not take 
his advice. 

In general, Japanese literary and upper class 
men are small, with feeble health and weak bodies. 
It is partly because they do not take proper care 
of their physical constitution. In their estimate, 
athletic training is too childish. The origin of 
such an idea must have been due to the long 
peace during the Tokugawa dynasties. Until 
the late revolutionary war in Japan, the people 
generally contemned the working class of men. 
Hence, the upper class people used long-sleeved 
garments and fine silken robes. Very likely such 
a custom may have come from their desire to dis- 
tinguish themselves from the poor laboring men. 
Gradually, the physical as well as moral health 
of our nation was ruined by their iuxury and 
carelessness. And, of course, our people cannot 
be proud of it, neither can they say it is the 
highest form of civilization. 

Young Americans seem to understand all these 
weak points of the old world. They are steadily 
trying to develop power both of mind and body. 
Once^I witnessed a great football game between 
our team and the Harvard men. It was the 
greatest game ever fought between the blue and 
crimson. The young and old members of both 
universities yelled many hundred times. Soon 
there appeared a tall, white-faced, blue-eyed, 
Roman-nosed, red-and-brown-haired young man. 



i8o A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

The battle without weapons was begrun; the 
struggle between these men was more like the 
picture of an Olympian contest. Finally, the 
victory was won by our blue team. Yells again 
were given by those who held a small blue flag. 
That evening the men of both universities met 
together in a club-house in a most benign and 
friendly manner. There, the rude boys became 
again respectable young gentlemen. And such 
pleasant-charactered young men are the germs 
that will produce the healthful America, after 
they are developed ! 



CHAPTER XVIII 

VISION OF FUTURE WORK — ORDINATION 

When I was in New Haven I used to preach 
somewhat in the local churches, and also gave 
lectures in the city and in many different towns, 
and thus had a good opportunity of visiting the 
old historical spots in the New England states. 

One vacation day I went to Newport and 
visited the old home of Commodore Perry and 
saw his bronze statue in Touro Park. My heart 
was greatly moved, because he was the first man 
who went to Japan and opened her gates to the 
Western world. And ever since the great Ameri- 
can republic and the empire of Japan have been 
in friendly accord, under the hand of Almighty 
God. " What therefore God hath joined together, 
let not man put asunder." The recent questions 
connected with the Doshisha school and the 
American Board have perhaps injured the feelings 
of the American people, and Japan's faithfulness 
and loyalty to her sister country and to Christian- 
ity have been misunderstood. Yet the Americans 
ought to remember that Japan is one of their 
own children ; for, during Commodore Perry's 
visit to Japan, England and Russia and all 

other powers were jealous about the American 

i8i 



l82 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

expedition. On the other hand, most of the 
Japanese thought that the armed American 
squadron came to take possession of Japan, and 
so every preparation was made to fight with the 
" savage foreigners/* In those perilous days the 
American officer stood bravely from the begin- 
ning to the end, and finally peaceful negotiations 
were made between the two sister countries. 
The commodore was not only a hero in the his- 
tory of the American republic, but he was also 
the friend of our country. It was not enough, 
then, that his countrymen honor and commemo- 
rate his merit with a bronze monument in his 
native town. 

In my future, beside my pastoral work among 
my own rage, I desire to establish a manual train- 
ing institution for aborigines in the Orient, like 
the Hampton and Carlisle institutions in America. 
Let it be truly an organ of all charity organiza- 
tions and benevolent societies. Petty disputes 
concerning theology, denominational jealousy and 
race prejudice should be strictly avoided. "The 
Fatherhood of God and brotherhood of man" 
must be the aim. Let it produce many trained 
native workers, who know something about 
manual labor to support themselves, and scatter 
them everywhere among their own people. 

But, of course, I know that a man's desire can- 
not always be realized, for, in the life of man, 
there lie many difficult mountains and deep seas 
to cross, and there are dangers of sickness and 



VISION OF FUTURE WORK—ORDINATION 183 

calamity. Yet I have stated here boldly my 
future plan, so that in case I cannot complete it 
for any reason, and should die without fulfilling 
this long-cherished hope, some of my kind readers 
may take up this work of philanthropy. To 
undertake such a great work one must expect to 
meet great difficulties, but " God is not unright- 
eous to forget your work and labor of love." A 
man can conquer all difficulty by one word — 
truthfulness. If he has a truthful heart, he can 
move the heart of every creature, though he has 
no special talent. The secret of being a success- 
ful man in this world is therefore to mould his 
heart first to an absolute truthfulness, and then do 
what he can do well. 

In the year 1888 I first landed in America 
with empty hands, and ever since I have not suf- 
fered for anything, but, under the shadow of the 
Almighty's wings, I have been fed, clothed and 
educated. I have suffered because there was no 
chance for me to requite favors which I had re- 
ceived from Christian America. Just at that 
time, the questions of Hawaiian annexation and 
the Japanese laborers were in discussion all over 
the country. Once I read in a newspaper that 
there were more than twenty thousand Japanese 
laborers living in the Hawaiian Islands ; and there 
was an influx of an immense number of pagan 
worshipers or Buddhists from the Orient. One 
of the Pacific papers said : 

" In the present agitation in California concern- 



l84 ^ JAPANESE CRUSOE 

ing the evils to be apprehended from Japanese 
immigration the danger of the ingress of Japanese 
laborers from the Hawaiian Islands has a promi- 
nent place. . . . According to the figures com- 
piled at the office of the Japanese consulate in 
this city (San Francisco) there are at present on 
this coast 3,866 Japanese men and 200 women, 
making over 4,000 in all. But these figures, by 
the admission of the consul's clerk, are only ap- 
proximately correct, and the evidences would 
tend to show that the actual number is much 
larger. They are all Buddhist believers, and so, 
naturally, they bring their idols and heathen cus- 
toms to this country, too," etc. 

Now I thought my first duty would be to go 
to the Hawaiian Islands in order to defend my 
benefactress, America, from the dangers of Bud- 
dhists. ** Truly if they come by the hundreds to 
Christian America through that Pacific island, 
what danger will accrue to the uneducated poorer 
class of American people ? '* I thought. Of course 
I understand that the Americans have sense 
enough to choose the best religion. But among 
seventy millions of her population there must be 
some cranks who would worship the images of 
old Moloch and Buddha in the midst of the chil- 
dren of God. So I determined to go to Hawaii 
to preach and teach the Orientals who live there. 
This act of mine was merely to express my own 
thankfulness for the benefits which I had received 
from America. My schoolmate, a well-known 




VISION OF FUTURE WORK— ORDINATION 185 

Japanese scholar, who was a preacher in Honolulu 
before he came to New Haven, thus advised me, 
after hearing of my decision : 

" Oh, you had better give it up ; for you are 
too good to go to those islands. On the way to 
America I spent there about six months, so I 
know pretty well about it, and I am sure that 
you will repent soon after you get there.** 

" Yes, perhaps so. * Yet even the dogs eat of the 
crumbs which fall from their masters' table,' " 
I answered, and did not change my mind. 

At New Haven I made many good friends 
who belong to the best society ; and I was very 
happy and prosperous. But my old Doctor in 
Washington city had now some suspicions about 
me, although in my heart I always remembered 
him and regarded him as my Christian father. 
Once he wrote me a letter with the following 
words : 

" So you are no longer ' a reed shaken by the 
wind,* but being * brought up in the King's house.' 
I am glad you have all these physical comforts. 
You are now in our old New England school. 
It is not like going to market every morning with 
the old President. But do not despise the day 
of small things. You are the best, very best, 
* boy * I ever had. I am glad you stand by the 
faith once delivered to the saints, and are con- 
tented with what satisfied the apostle Paul. I 
think you and I cannot do better in explaining 
the plan of salvation than he did. And I know 



l86 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

we both need the grace, which he so delighted to 
glorify." 

From the time I first met with the Doctor 
until my departure from America, he wrote me 
about forty-one letters from time to time, and 
all were filled with true Christian love. 

At the end of our spring term, the Doctor 
wrote me to come to Washington once more 
before I left America ; then he would make an 
arrangement for me to be ordained as a Christian 
minister. I accepted his kind invitation, and 
determined to visit the capital as soon as possible, 
because it was now very near summer, and if I 
delayed a little longer all my Washington friends 
would have left the city for their vacation. As 
soon as our last Senior examination was closed, I 
went to see Professor Fisher and explained to 
him the matter. This distinguished American 
scholar gave me the following letter: 

New Haven, Conn., May 19, 1895. 
Mr. J. Oyabe, after going through a course of study at 
the Howard University, entered the Yale University, and 
will receive the degree of B.D. at the approaching com- 
mencement. Mr. Oyabe, during his connection with us, 
has been diligent and faithful as a student, and exemplary 
in his conduct. He is commended to all to whom he has 

occasion to present this note. 

George p. Fisher. 

I went round among my acquaintances to bid 
them farewell. When I saw President Dwight, he 
said : " I congratulate you on the end of your 
school life, but I feel very sorry to miss you now 



\ 



VISION OF FUTURE WORK—ORDINA TION 187 

from our University." This weighty word of 
the grand old president was worth to me more 
than a golden medal. I dined with Doctor Bras- 
tow, and then went to see Doctor Day, my fa- 
vorite professor. He invited, me into his own 
study and advised me very kindly in the follow- 
ing words : 

** It is generally a great temptation for a young 
man to attempt to be a great man soon after his 
graduation. We educate young men simply how 
to study. I want you to remember that you are 
,now just entering into a school of life. A young 
man who wants to climb the ladder of success 
must commence at the lowest round. Do not 
try to be a head man from the beginning. If 
you do, the others will try to check you, and 
they will all push down your head so that you 
will not lift it up. But, on the contrary, if you 
keep your humble place, the others will soon find 
you and try to lift you up. Such is human 
nature the world over." 

The professor also told me about his early ex- 
perience in the late civil war : 

" We, then the youthful college men, marched 
South, and when we came as far as to Maryland, 
most of our gallant boys, as they called them- 
selves when they started from home, were about 
jaded out ; but we, the steady boys who were 
called cowards, were strong as ever, and fought 
many battles until the end. You are going now 
into the Christian battle ; and I command you to 



i88 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

do the same as we, the coward boys, did in those 
old days." 

He wrote me a humbling, commendatory 
letter, and told me : 

" I do not praise you with sounding words. I 
estimate you in this letter much cheaper than 
your own price. I do so because I want you to 
have more experience ; then, by and by, after the 
old folks are all dead, to fill up their place." 

I left the old college town and soon arrived at 
the city of Washington. There, my old Doctor 
and his wife were glad to find their long-missed 
boy again at home. The madam led me into the 
very best apartment in the house, and told me : 
" Remember, this will always be your room j and 
you must not go away from here any more." 
The Doctor was now busy making arrangements 
for my ordination service as grand as he could 
manage. 

For a brief account of my ordination, I will 
copy from the minutes made out by the board of 
the examining committee : 

" Mr. J. Oyabe was then called upon and made 
a verbal statement concerning his birth and his 
conversion. Questions were then propounded to 
the candidate by Rev. J. E. Rankin, D. D., LL. D., 
Rev. H. P. Higley, D. D., Rev. R. Nourse, 
Rev. B. N. Seymour, and Rev. J. H. Jenkins. 
The candidate then, by request, retired from the 
room for a short time. On motion by Rev. R. 
Nourse, Rev. J. E. Rankin, D.D., LL. D., and 



VISION OF FUTURE WORK— ORDINATION 189 

Rev. S. M. Newman, D. D., were asked to state 
what they knew of the education, piety, and char- 
acter of the candidate, which was done. The 
candidate was then recalled and examined further 
by different members of the council. On motion 
by Rev. B. N. Seymour the council was then in 
session by itself. Each member having expressed 
his views regarding the candidate, on motion by 
Rev. B. N. Seymour, it was unanimously voted 
that the paper presented by the candidate and 
the examination which had been made be con- 
sidered sustained, and that the council proceed to 
arrange for the ordination service.*' 

Quite a large number of people were present. 
Delegates were invited from all the leading 
churches in the vicinity. There were also many 
distinguished people as delegates at large, and the 
commendatory letters from Professor Fisher, and 
Professor Day of New Haven were read. The or- 
dination service took the place of the regular even- 
ing service on Sunday at the First Church, one of 
the largest and finest churches in the capital. 
The ordination sermon was preached by my old 
President from the text : ** A man sent from 
God." The sermon was published by " The 
Pulpit," of June, 1895. The house was well filled, 
and there were more than a thousand people who 
came to be eye-witnesses of the ordination ser- 
vice, as well as to hear the eminent President. 
In his conclusion of the ordination sermon he 
said: 



igo A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

** You know something about American civil- 
ization. You have been in American families and 
American churches. Imperfect as America is, it 
is the best and freest country on the earth. 
What has made her what she is, is the prevalence 
of human freedom and the fearless study of God's 
truth. Freedom of thought alone makes infidel 
nations. Loyalty to the truth as God has re- 
vealed it, whether in matters of religion or of life, 
is a nation's only safeguard against free thought. 
It is as witnesses to the truth that men come who 
are sent from God. 

" Your career may be short ; do not draw back 
from it on this account. Those of us who have 
learned to know you and love you hope it will 
not be. But the ardor of your nature, the eager- 
ness of your aspirations suggest this possibility. 
You may do in a day what other men do only in 
threescore years and ten. But, the sooner death, 
the sooner heaven. Your duty now, however, is 
to live. Your duty is to live as long as you can." 




CHAPTER XIX 

DEPARTURE FROM AMERICA 

Some time before I came to Washington I 
made an application for service under the Hawai- 
ian Board of Missions and forwarded it to my 
friend in Honolulu, who was its secretary. The 
secretary in his answer officially requested me to 
come to the island as a missionary of the Hawaiian 
Evangelical Association. "The Lord is nigh 
unto all them that call upon him, to all that call 
upon him in truth. He will fulfil the desire of 
them that fear him," are words that now became 
real to me. I thanked the Lord that my prayer 
had been heard. 

The occasion, however, obliged me now to leave 

my adopted American home and my Christian 

parents. The Doctor took me one day to market 

as we used to go together some years ago. Then 

he told me that if I asked him for anything which 

I would like to have he would buy and give it to 

me as a parting present. I recalled at once the 

old story of Solomon who asked the Lord : 

" Give me now wisdom and knowledge." I asked 

the president : " Give me now a large Webster's 

dictionary." This he did, and sent it by express 

as far as San Francisco. 

191 



192 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

All my preparations for departure were made, 
and many of my kind friends gave me worthy 
introductory letters to their friends in Chicago, 
San Francisco, and in Honolulu. The Doctor 
offered to give me a good introductory letter to 
the Hawaiian Board. I told him that I had two 
letters to it already from some of my friends. 
The Doctor considered a moment, and said, 
" All right ; then I will introduce you to the best 
man of all.'* He wrote a worthy letter of intro- 
duction to the President of the Hawaiian republic ; 
then handed it to me and said : ** Now, look here, 
my son, I have got ahead of all your friends ! " 

I bade good-bye to all my beloved people, and 
left the old sweet home with inexpressible sorrow. 
Soon the sharp whistle of the express train sepa- 
rated us. 

When our train came to the state of Ohio, and 
stopped at a certain railway station, a gentleman, 
with two little baby-girls about five and seven 
years old, entered the parlor car where I was. 
After the train had started, the children looked 
at me with a sweet smile, and pointing their 
fingers toward me told their father that they 
would like to take a seat with me. The father 
politely asked my permission and let them take 
the seat at my side. The red-cheeked and round- 
faced little ones enjoyed themselves very much, 
and talked to me very familiarly as to a little 
companion. When we came to another station 
in the same state the gentleman tried to leave 



DEPA R TURE FROM AMERICA 1 93 

the car, but his little ones began to cry and urged 
him to take me to their home. The father, who 
became now quite friendly with me, kindly said 
to me that if I was not in a hurry it would be a 
great pleasure for him to take me to his residence 
to spend an evening with him. I accepted his 
offer and went with them to their home and 
spent a delightful evening. Early the next morn- 
ing, while the little ones were still in bed, I left 
the house and took a train for Chicago. 

Chicago is situated on the south shore of Lake 
Michigan, more than one thousand miles of 
railway journey from Boston. It is one of the 
largest railway centers and grain markets in the 
world. In 1871 the city was largely destroyed 
by fire ; but already the grander city of new 
Chicago had sprung from the ashes of the old 
town. The black smoke from steam-cars and 
ships and from the forest of long chimney-tops 
tells at onCe the story of her great industries. 

When I arrived in that marvelous city, I did 
not know what I should do, because the streets 
were so bustling everywhere, and the weather 
was intensely hot. It was the month of June. 
In the middle of the day the thermometer went 
up as high as 109°. I went all round the city to 
find a cool, nice house to stay in, but I could 
not find any. While I was wandering about the 
streets I saw a fine, large stone church on the 
corner of a public park. On the door I found a 
sign on which was inscribed the name and address 
13 



194 ^ JAPANESE CRUSOE 

of the pastor. A new idea came to me, that if I 
should go and ask that Christian minister about 
a stopping-place he would give me good advice. 
Then I wandered about the busy streets to find 
the pastor's residence. The house was found at 
last ; I rang the door-bell, which was responded 
to by a house-maiden, and I was taken before the 
minister. The gentleman seemed to me above 
sixty years old, and a gray-haired, tall, stout-look- 
ing person. He asked me what I wanted. So I 
showed him my general introductory letters, and 
asked him kindly to advise me about a good 
boarding-house in a cool place in the city. 

The noble-looking old minister looked at me 
very coldly and said: " Oh, well, I do not know 
anything about such matters; and that is all 
I can say to you." Then standing up he said, 
" That is all ; good-bye, sir ! *' 

I was obliged to stand up and repeated the 
same word to him and left the house. " Aim not 
at great things, or you will fail, but aim at a 
kindly heart and a brotherly individualism and 
you are sure to succeed," may be a good text 
for him to remember. 

After I left the old minister's house I went to 
the railroad depot where my trunk was, and took 
out some introductory letters which had been 
given to me by my friends. Among them a 
letter for Hon. J. N. H., of Chicago was the best 
one. I took it and went to the gentleman's 
business office in the city. I was very kindly 




DEPARTURE FROM AMERICA 195 

received by him, and was taken to his country 
residence at Evanston, which is not very far away 
from the city. 

While I was in Chicago I visited almost all the 
public places, such as the city museum, art 
gallery, Northwestern and Chicago universities, 
hospitals, and even the famous stockyard. I 
observed the Sabbath at the Central Church, 
and enjoyed the eloquent preaching of the pastor. 
During the whole day, Sunday, the noisy city 
was a quiet and peaceful paradise. While I was 
in other cities the people all said that Chicago 
was a woefully bad and infidel city ; and that 
" dollars are the voice of prayer in the morning, 
and the voice of thanksgiving at night ; " but 
when I came there and spent a Sabbath, I found 
that she is an angel among the stars. Not longer 
ago than sixty years there was only one church 
building in Chicago. Now there are somewhere 
about three hundred churches and places where 
Sunday services are conducted. On the question 
of education Chicago is awake. Like the 
churches the public schools have grown with the 
growth of the new Chicago itself. The city was 
new, and a large majority of the people were 
money-worshipers, but they kept their eyes 
strictly toward one object, namely, " God and 
liberty," which is the Yankee spirit. The Amer- 
ican republic will never die so long as she has 
the true religious backbone covered with a flesh 
of education. 



196 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

After spending a week in the city I took a 
train for Ogden. When we crossed the Rocky 
Mountains we met with a severe snow-storm, 
though it was in the month of June. The moun- 
tain was well named, for there were no trees, but 
rocks all the way along. The vast plain was 
wastefully laid out ; for there were no houses, 
nor Indian wigwams, but a few remaining snow- 
white bones of dead animals, and many empty 
whiskey bottles along the railroad tracks. 

Soon we came to Ogden in Utah. I left the 
train and spent a day visiting Indian camps and 
villages in the near vicinity. While I was visit- 
ing there, an intelligent-looking Indian grasped 
my hand and said : 

" I congratulate you, my brother, for you have 
beaten China." 

I was glad to hear such words from such a 
strange man. I asked him how he knew about 
the China- Japan war, while he was living in such 
a distant, mountainous place. 

" Oh, I *m an Indian chief, you know, and I 
love your country very much." 

Trulyj I sympathize with his people ; and cer- 
tainly all Christians must help them with kind- 
ness and love. Guarding them with guns and 
cannons, and surrounding their wigwams with 
armed soldiers is not the Christian way of treat- 
ing these unfortunate images of God. 

From Ogden I took a special train for Salt 
Lake City, which is remarkable as the home of 



. DEPARTURE FROM AMERICA 197 

the Mormons. These peculiar religious people 
occupy fertile valleys at the western base of the 
Wasatch Range, and carry on an extensive agri- 
culture by means of irrigation. The main street 
of the city is broad and pleasant. The houses 
are in the old style, with beautiful flower-gardens 
and old trees in each yard. The Mormon Temple 
and the Tabernacle are two of the most notable 
objects in the city. The Temple is built of 
stone, and it has four noble spires, and is said to 
be the highest structure in America. The house 
is walled with double fences, and no one is 
allowed to enter except their own church mem- 
bers. The Tabernacle, which is freely opened 
for strangers, is a very peculiar style of architec- 
ture. It is a one-storied, large, flat, and egg- 
shaped building. The heavy roof is sustained by 
its wall, and inside of the building there are no 
pillars to support it. My guide told me that all 
these wonderful buildings, and even the city it- 
self, had been planned and constructed by their 
honored president, Brigham Young. I thought 
if Young was such an intelligent and careful man, 
there must be some truth in Mormonism. I de- 
sired now to meet with a Mormon prophet to 
discuss their theology. 

After I had visited the old home of Brigham 
Young, his grave, and many old residences of his 
wives and the prophets, the University of Utah, 
the new City Hall, and the great Salt Lake, I 
asked my guide to take me to the residence of a 



198 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

leading Mormon prophet. While I was asking 
this, there came along a gentleman whom my 
guide introduced to me as a deacon of the Mor- 
mon church. The guide asked him to take me 
to a prophet's house. The deacon was a very 
friendly person. He took rne to a residence 
which was situated near the tabernacle, and in- 
troduced me to the prophet. In our first inter- 
view the prophet asked me, in a very gentlemanly 
way, how I would like to preach the Mormon 
doctrine. 

I thanked him and said : " If you educate your 
preachers in the New Testament theology, and 
leave out the system of polygamy, not outwardly 
but entirely from the leaves of your book, I may 
have a little sympathy with you. But I think I 
will take hold of the gospel which was taught in 
the New Testament and nothing else." 

He was not offended by my reply, and very 
patiently said to me : 

" Yes ; but it was foretold by Isaiah that even 
women and children will preach in later days. 
So every one has a right to preach indeed. The 
Father of the race has the only right to a voice 
in the sexual union of his children. Although 
polygamy is not practised by us now, yet it is 
right so far as the voice of the Almighty is con- 
cerned.** 

" Do you remember how Christ trained his 
disciples? Without training a man you cannot 
make him a teacher of men. Again, if polygamy 



DEPARTURE FROM AMERICA 199 

is the revealed law of God, why will you not 
practise it now openly ? " I said to the prophet. 

" Because the law of the United States govern- 
ment will not allow it," he answered me with an 
uneasy manner. 

" Which do you think is right and honorable, 
to keep your faith in God and obey his law until 
your death by martyrdom, or to obey the laws 
of man and have a short period of earthly com- 
fort and die as a false prophet ? " 

The gentleman gave me no answer, so we 
turned our conversation to another subject. 

The next day was the Sabbath. I went to the 
tabernacle to see the Mormon service. There 
were over fifteen hundred in the audience already 
when I went into the hall. The singing was very 
charming, the music was sweet. The people were 
proud of their organ, which was manufactured in 
their own city. They claimed that it was the 
largest and finest one in America. I heard the 
address of Joseph F. Smith, a descendant of the 
martyred prophet. After the meeting was over, 
my friend, the deacon, introduced me to the 
Mormon president. He seemed to me above 
seventy years of age. His hair was white ; he 
had no moustache but a thick beard all round his 
chin, as in the old style of a New England farmer. 
He was large and fat, but not very tall in stature. 

While I was in Salt Lake City, I stayed at a 
comfortable hotel in Hot Springs, a few miles 
away from the city. I enjoyed the fine hot spring 



200 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

bath which is noted for the curing of almost every 
disease. After spending about four days there, 
I took a train and started for the city of San 
Francisco. 

When I arrived at San Francisco, I visited the 
editor of " The Pacific," to whom I was intro- 
duced by the Doctor in Washington. At his 
office, I found a large Webster's Dictionary which 
was sent to me as a parting present from the same 
Doctor. 

Until the year 1848 San Francisco was nothing 
but a fishers* village. But after the discovery of 
shining particles of gold, emigration began from 
all parts of America, and even from Europe and 
Asia. Soon houses were erected and streets 
were laid out, and from that, like the grain of 
mustard seed, grew up a beautiful city. But I 
must say that her mental progress was a little 
too slow. It was said that, for a time, lawless- 
ness reigned supreme. Even to this day, the 
almighty gold is much worshiped. And in this 
city most of our young Japanese students, who 
came to dig the shining golden truth, have been 
ruined or fascinated by Mammon worship ; and 
on account of these men America has been un- 
fortunately discussed and slandered as a whole. 

I spent about a week in San Francisco, and ob- 
served both the pleasant and unpleasant places in 
the city, as well as the hearts of the people in 
both high and low classes. The grand mint, city 
hall, hospitals, museums, art gallery, which was 




DEPARTURE FROM AMERICA 201 

the former residence of Mark Hopkins, univer- 
sities and schools, public gardens and main streets, 
including California and Market streets, were 
among the most pleasant places that I ever visited 
in any city. But the disfiguring signs of liquor 
saloons, beer halls, gambling quarters, the mass 
of beggars in rainy days, beautiful but degraded 
creatures around hotels at evening, down cellars 
in Chinatown, and the horrible night scenes at 
Mary, Sacramento, Dupont, and Martin streets, 
etc., belong to the most unpleasant things that I 
ever witnessed in a land of Christian civilization. 

The editor of " The Pacific " asked me what I 
thought about the city. 

I answered him : " Your city expresses just ex- 
actly human nature without Christ. Perhaps you 
need more men who could dig out the golden 
truth." 

The middle and upper-class people in that city 
were very pleasant, refined and sociable. While 
I was there, I found many good Christian friends 
and by them I was treated very kindly. Several 
of these good people gave me introductory letters 
to their friends in Honolulu. 

From San Francisco I took the steamer " Aus- 
tralia " which makes regular trips between that 
city and Honolulu. On the iSthday of June in 
the year 1895, I left the American shore and 
sailed away for another foreign country, the 
Hawaiian Islands. 



CHAPTER XX 

AT THE HAWIIAN ISLANDS — RETURN TO 

AMERICA 

Tall, strange-looking tropical trees, cocoanut 
and palms, are growing on the shore where burning 
lava once flowed like water and ran to the base of 
a horrible fire mountain. The natives are living 
very much like those in the South Sea Islands, 
and have grouped together their palm-thatched 
huts which characterize their native villages. 
Each village has one or more niorais, which are 
enclosures serving for cemeteries. In the middle 
is a temple, where the priests alone have a right 
to enter. They contain several idols of wood, 
rudely sculptured. At the feet of these images 
are deposited and left to putrify the offerings of 
the people, consisting of dogs, pigs, fowls, vege- 
tables, etc. The respect of these savages for their 
priests extends almost to adoration. The im- 
mense number also of low-class Japanese and 
Chinese on the island are worshiping their own 
idol gods with offerings and burning incense. 
The natives enjoy their little island home, and 
are living a quiet and easy life in a climate which 
is genial and wholesome and upon a soil whose 
fertility supplies them, in return for but little 

202 



A T THE HA W All AN ISLANDS 203 

labor, with all they want to eat and drink. ** If 
Paulton*s * Lazy Society * still exists somewhere 
on this earth, all its members ought to make their 
annual excursion to such an island as I am visit- 
ing ! " I thought to myself. Such was my vision 
concerning the Sandwich Islands until landing in 
Honolulu. 

Soon Diamond Head came to view, and within 
a few hours, the " Australia *' lay beside the great 
Honolulu wharf. My old friend. Secretary 
Emerson of the Haiiwaan Board, came to meet 
me on board the steamer ; and in his carriage I 
was taken to his residence, where I enjoyed the 
privilege of " talking and eating together " with 
this good, beloved brother. 

Honolulu is the capital of the Hawaiian 
Islands, and the commercial emporium of the 
entire group. The city is very attractive with 
many American and European residences, sur- 
rounded by large, beautiful velvet lawns and 
flower gardens, shaded by many graceful old trees. 
Electric light and telephone wires are stretching 
in various directions like a spider-net. Tram- 
cars run through the principal streets, and steam- 
cars will take tourists to the neighboring localities. 
The government buildings, Queen's Hospital, 
Bishop Museum, Oahu College, Kamehameha 
School, Central Union Church and other leading 
churches, hotels and private residences are all in 
American and European style. If an American 
tourist should ascend Punchbowl Hill and get a 



204 ^ JAPANESE CRUSOE 

complete bird's-eye view of the city, he would 
soon feel that he was wandering in one of his own 
Southern states, and hardly believe that he was 
on a small tropical island about two thousand and 
one hundred miles away from San Francisco. 

Soon after my arrival in Honolulu, I went to 
the lolani Palace with my Doctor's introductory 
letter, and met the President of the Hawaiian 
republic. He is a tall, fine-looking gentleman 
somewhere near fifty years of age, and has a 
thick mustache and long beard. He wore a black 
morning coat and white vest and trousers. His 
voice was low and his way of talking was very 
careful and courteous. We talked about the 
present condition of the new republic and Jap- 
anese laborers on the plantations, and some 
other general subjects. The President invited 
me to call at his private residence and meet his 
wife. 

" I hope you will soon feel at home, and find 
many comforts and a good home right in this 
city," was his affable remark when I left his of- 
ficial chamber. 

I made several calls on American residents in 
the city to whom I was kindly introduced by my 
friends. Besides President Dole, I met Chief 
Justice Judd, Justice Frear, Rev. Dr. Hyde, Rev. 
Messrs. Gulick and Emerson, and many other 
leading persons in the capital. They are kind, 
amiable, sympathetic and good-hearted men or 
angels, who will undoubtedly get wings by and 



A T THE HA WAIT AN ISLANDS 205 

by in the other world. But, ah ! their too good 
Christian character gave me a great disappoint- 
ment. For my first plan of coming to the 
Hawaiian Islands was to defend Christian Amer- 
ica from the dangers of heathen idolaters who 
live in that country. And for that reason I spent 
my precious time and money to reach the very 
spot to labor. 

When I met the chief justice, who was also the 
president of the Hawaiian Board of Missions, and 
had a long talk about the Hawaii which was 
thoroughly Christianized, and also the conditions 
of her peaceful Chinese and Japanese subjects, 
my old anxieties faded away, because Hawaii 
can defend America as a strong fortress without 
any assistance from a Japanese-blooded little 
Yankee like myself. For this and many other 
reasons, after observing the Japanese residents 
in Honolulu, I decided that I would not stay in 
such a Christian island. 

" Shall I go back to America, or return to 
Japan ? ** I questioned with myself. But the 
suggestion was too late for me, for I was now 
officially employed by the Hawaiian Board as 
one of their workers. And thus I was obliged to 
remain on the island. 

One day the Secretary told me to present my- 
self before the meeting of the Hawaiian Board. 

" Why do they need to see me ?*' I asked. 

" Oh, the Board will appoint you to take charge 
of the Lyceum Church in Honolulu as a pastor ; 



2o6 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

then we will fix your salary," he said to me 
with a happy, friendly expression. 

" No, indeed ; no, I thank you. I rather prefer 
to be a country preacher somewhere in a quiet 
homelike island,** I said to my good old friend. 
At the same time, I remembered the kind advice 
of the old New Haven Professor, Dr. Day, " Be 
as a coward, and progress step by step ; " and 
also the story of Lot, how he covetously chose 
the city and destroyed himself. 

The Secretary kindly advised me, however, to 
stay with him in Honolulu, but I did not agree to 
stay. Soon I was taken before the meeting of 
the Board. The Secretary reported my request 
to the officers ; and at last I was ordered to take 
charge of a mission on the island of Maui. 

I had shaken ofif the dust from my sandals, and 
left the busy capital by a small coasting steamer 
" Claudine," and started for my new home on 
Maui, accompanied by a gentleman who was 
specially sent from the Hawaiian Board. 

When we arrived at the island of Maui, I asked 
my companion where we should go first to rest 
ourselves and get our meal. 

" Oh, we are going first to the residence of 
Rev. Dr. Beckwith," he said. 

" What ! a reverend Doctor in such a pumpkin- 
like island ? *' I replied. 

" Yes, sir ; I tell you that he is one of the 
ablest men in this country. He was the founder 
and the pastor of the Central Union Church in 



A T THE HA W All AN ISLANDS 207 

Honolulu. The Doctor retired from his busy 
public life only because of. his advancing age," 
said my friend. 

My heart was somewhat strengthened by it, 
for, though I had become now a lonely exile, yet 
I could get some comfort and instruction from 
such a good old minister. 

My friend and I soon arrived at the Doctor's 
beautiful residence in Paia. We both were cor- 
dially welcomed by the gray-haired old Amer- 
ican gentleman, whose appearance to my eyes 
was like Saint John on the Island of Patmos. 
We were introduced by him to his family — a 
tender-hearted wife, and a charming daughter 
who became afterward the good, humble Mrs. 
St. Knox. 

At the dinner the young lady served for us a 
delicious muskmelon. I was taken by surprise, 
because, when I left California, I bought plenty 
of seeds of it and intended to be called the first 
man who brought the seeds of the muskmelon to 
the island. 

"Where did you get such foreign fruit?'* I 
asked. 

" Dear me ! such fruit is plenty everywhere 
on these islands, and you can eat them all you 
want," she said. 

If she had known my heart she would never 
have spoken in that way and given me more dis- 
appointment. A young man is very apt to make 
plans without thinking very deeply about the 



2o8 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

result. But by such rashness many good things 
are sometimes done ! My visit to Hawaii, and 
also the introducing of muskmelon seeds were a 
failure, but from it I learned many lessons which 
the universities could not teach. 

By the kindness of the old gentleman I met 
with several American friends on the island. 
Among them I found two of my American rela- 
tives ; one was the Doctor's wife, Mrs. Beckwith, 
who was a dear sister of my first patron, the 
late General Armstrong ; the other was a lovely 
Christian lady, Mrs. H. P. Baldwin, who was the 
cousin of Rev. Dr. Martin, the author of a Chinese 
book which my father read, and from which he 
was first led to the Christian faith. Truly, we 
must be kind one to another, and try to do good 
to all people always, for, wherever we go, we will 
meet unexpectedly with relatives and friends. A 
man cannot be altogether a recluse even though 
he stays in a small isle of the sea ! 

The Hawaiian Islands are situated under the 
tropic of Cancer, and so the country must be hot. 
But the heat produced by a tropical sun is mit- 
igated by the trade-winds, which blow over a 
wide extent of ocean, and also by the cooled 
current which returns from the region of Behring 
Straits. There is no summer or winter, but a 
delightful spring climate always. To foreigners, 
and particularly to consumptive people, the cli. 
mate has proved of the most salubrious nature. 
A tourist should not forget to visit Punchbowl 



L 



AT THE HAWAIIAN ISLANDS 209 

Hill, Diamond Head, Pali and Waikiki, on the 
island of Oahu ; Wailua and Hanapepe Falls, 
Waiokanaloa and two other wonderful caves on 
Kauai ; lao Valley, great Haleakala Mountain, 
Baldwin Villa in Olinda, Makawao Seminary 
and sugar mills and plantations, on Maui; the 
world-renowned leper settlement on Molokai, if 
he can secure permission from the Board of 
Health ; and on the island of Hawaii, Kaawaloa, 
the monument of Captain Cook, Kilauea, tlie 
largest volcano in the world, boiling lakes and 
beautiful little Cocoanut Island, etc. 

In such a real " Paradise of the Pacific " I 
made a temporary home ; and for the first time 
since my mother's death I enjoyed quiet, peace- 
ful home life, although in my new house there 
was none but myself and my cook, whose name I 
used to call " Friday." It was not because my 
old brother Crusoe called his servant by that name, 
but because Friday was my resting day in the 
week, and generally I visited my American friends 
and took my square meals with them. So call- 
ing him " Friday," I let my man understand 
that on that day he need not cook anything for 
me. 

One Friday noon I took a long ride to Haiku, 
and spent the evening with an American family. 
While we were taking dinner, there arose a con- 
versation about a turtle. I told the mistress that 
in some islands in Japan there was a big turtle 
a great deal larger than her dining-room table, 
14 



2IO A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

The lady and the good old gentleman were greatly 
astonished and told me very distinctly that they 
could not believe such a story. I was surprised, 
too, because I told this to amuse the old friends 
and to comfort their lonely island life. 

Soon after our dinner, the mistress said to her 
husband : " Now, George, you go to the other 
room and get for me all the books on natural 
history, encyclopedias, and Webster's Dictionary." 
The books were brought before her, and she 
was busy finding out about the turtle which she 
was told was as big as her dining-room table. At 
last, she said : ** Listen to me, please ! Webster 
and all other scholars and scientists do not men- 
tion such turtles as you have told us about." 

Although such a gigantic animalis occasionally 
found in the Bonin Islands from which I drifted 
away some years ago, yet now I could not make 
her believe it. I had now a perplexity in my 
heart, and it troubled my mind very greatly. A 
sensible daughter of the house looked on my face 
very resentfully and said : 

" Now, my friend, please do keep on, do keep 

on ; do n*t let my mamma call you a story-teller ! " 

Soon the good-hearted Christian maiden's eyes 

were moist, and her cheeks were in color. But I 

could not convince her mother, because Webster 

and others were all on the mistress' side, and to 

i prove mine there was none. And so, after that 

j time, I was called " a fish-story teller." 

' " The tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity." 




A T THE HA W All AN ISLANDS 2 1 1 

I had a very comfortable cottage on a hill. I 
called my place "The Eden without Eve." I 
took that name because there was no woman in 
my house — neither mother, nor wife, nor sisters, 
nor maid servants. And of course there was no 
reason to follow after the misleading idea of 
" The Eden without Adam," which was founded 
by an American woman doctor somewhere in the 
State of Illinois. I shall say that that organiza- 
tion was simply miserable, though it may be a 
Paradise for an aged single lady. 

The cry " Equality with man " is one of the 
mischiefs among modern college women. Some 
of them are trying to do exactly the same sort of 
work as the men both in study, gymnastic exer- 
cise, public services and even in drinking and 
smoking habits. A century ago, in Japan, there 
was a peculiar fashion that the men tried to be- 
come like graceful women. And the result was 
public weakness and destruction. The American 
way of to-day is the reverse. Can a hen crow, 
and a cock feed chicks, or a cow fight with her 
horns, and a bull gently take care of a calf ? Cer- 
tainly not. We have hands and feet in the same 
body, but their work is entirely different one from 
the other. So the woman's mission must be dif- 
ferent from the man's though we may both have 
equal rights as human beings. 

Well, discussing an entirely different subject 
and forgetting to tell my own story is as unwise 
as the woman-question itself. 



212 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

Once I heard from my father in Japan that he 
had a bad attack of rheumatism. He told me 
that he would soon come to my island home, be- 
cause the doctor advised him to change his place 
of residence to some warmer country. I was glad, 
and I had prepared all things for my long-forgot- 
ten father. I also decided that if he came to the 
islands I should remain in Hawaii until my old 
father's last breath. I bought a piece of coffee-land 
with a little cottage in a beautiful valley, also a 
small carriage and horse. When all things were 
ready for my father, and I was daily expecting 
his arrival, there came suddenly an obituary re- 
port of that grand old Judge! Now all plans 
for my father were vainly gone. Still, one hope 
remained for me. I am ready to die for the 
Christian cause ; as Paul could say, " I am now 
ready to be offered, and the time of my departure 
is at hand.'* 

Although I was resting in a comfortable little 
island home, and enjoying a peaceful life, yet 
every time I saw the vile conduct of some of my 
countrymen on these islands my heart was pained 
with sympathy, but not so much for these people 
as for their mother country. I could not help 
crying : " What a foolish man I am ! I have 
become a true coward ! For I am trying to get 
pure water by cleaning the lower part of the 
river. It would be wise to go up to its source, if 
I want to have a nice clean-watered river. In 
other words, I am trying to destroy a corrupt 



A T THE HA WAIIAN ISLANDS 213 

tree by cutting its leaves and branches, and not 
going to cut its root ! ** 

One day I received a letter from my old Doc- 
tor in Washington. In that letter he said : " It 
IS unfortunate that the Hawaiian Islands are so 
small, while you are so large. There seems to 
be a misfit somewhere. But perhaps the islands 
will increase in size, or Jenichiro grow smaller." 

As he is a philospher and poet, his language is 
very poetical ; but such anxiety is very natural 
for an old gentleman who has been a teacher 
and companion with me for years. 

As the climate of the island is warm all the 
year round, one can spend a whole year while he 
thinks that he is just enjoying one short summer 
month on a vacation. I had now spent over two 
years on the island, scarcely knowing that I had 
been there so long. 

One rainy night, while I sat in my lonely study, 
burning the midnight lamp, this thought came 
to my mind, and, as was my custom, I noted it 
down in my memorandum : 

" Though a mountain is high, yet it is worth- 
less if it has no forest or trees. Though this 
world is large, yet if it is not inhabited by man 
it is useless. Though a man possess physical 
beauty, yet without the actions of a gentleman 
there is nothing worthy of admiration. To-day, 
as twenty-five hundred years ago, the saying of 
Confucius holds good : * A gentleman you can 
tell by his actions only ! * Modern civilization is 



214 ^ JAPANESE CRUSOE 

progressing wonderfully year after year. But at 
the same time, great evils are found in every 
phase of life. Every civilized country is building 
mighty war-ships and making terrible weapons^ 
for wholesale butchery. A sociologist claims 
that all religious teachings, including Christianity, 
arc impossible of adaptation to modern society 
because each man must possess property for the 
support of himself and his family. ' If we give 
away what we have, according to the teachings 
of the old religion,* says a noted sociologist^ 
* practically, we should not have any property. 
We must gather as much money as we can for 
the support of our wives and children. Charity 
should begin at home ! * 

" The result of such teachings naturally would 
be selfishness, insincerity, callousness and cor- 
ruption. 

** Saints and moralists are disregarded, and hyp- 
ocrites and rascals have the controlling power 
over modern society. There are, however, no 
other men so needful for us to-day as true phi- 
lanthropists. Count Tolstoi is a Russian noble- 
man of high rank, yet he lives among the common 
people, and is preaching the salvation of man. 
John Howard, whose last words were, * Let me 
be forgotten,' was a good physician for poor 
sinners. So with Lord Shaftesbury, Peter Cooper, 
and Abraham Lincoln. And Jesus himself was 
the teacher of all. A man's earthly life is short. 
I must give this body and soul for the salvation 




A T THE HA WA 11 AN ISLANDS 2 1 5 

of the poor and needy, and let my mouth speak for 
those people who cannot themselves tell their 
needs." 

Such was my thought, And I made up my 
mind then to leave the Hawaiian Islands, for my 
island life was too easy and too comfortable for me. 

Soon the news of my proposed departure 
spread among my friends. Many of them urged 
me to stay with them. But I could not do so, of 
course. I called my people to our meeting-house, 
and addressed them ; then followed the Lord's 
Supper, and my farewell. After giving all my 
household property to my " Friday," the faith- 
ful servant, I started for Honolulu. 

Warm friendship and kind hospitality were 
shown by my American and Japanese friends in 
Honolulu. Mr. Shimamura, the Japanese min- 
ister to Hawaii, gave me an official letter of rec- 
ommendation to his government. A part of the 
letter read as follows : " He came to these Islands 
and preached the Christian doctrine, and his suc- 
cess has been so remarkable that he has been 
highly praised constantly both by the Japanese, 
and by foreigners in this country." 

October 14th, 1897, I sailed from Honolulu for 
America in the steamer ** Alameda," for I had 
a desire to study a special branch of science at 
my favorite old University in New Haven. 

The sea was calm and peaceful, and I enjoyed 
the good company of the passengers. After 
seven days on board the steamer, the " Alameda " 



2 1 6 A JAPANESE CR USOE 

brought us safely to San Francisco, on the 2ist 
day of the same month. Soon I took a fast train 
for New York by way of Washington so that I 
might see my good old friend, Dr. Rankin, in the 
capital. 

" Why, here is our Jenichiro ! ^ow did you 
get here?" was his surprised greeting when I 
called at his residence. 

" You ought to know of my coming, for I sent 
you a letter from Honolulu a day before I left 
there," I replied. 

But the Doctor told me that he had not re- 
ceived any letter. The reason was that I arrived 
at his house before the first mail came. 

**Your quick movements are like a flying 
cherub. Tell me about the country and what 
good news you have of your work in Hawaii," 
said the old gentleman. 

"The islands are beautiful; the climate is 
lovely, the people are kind and generous, and 
lastly, my work was successful," I said, and 
showed him a little bundle of commendatory 
letters. One of them read as follows : 

Maui, H. I., October 9, 1897. 

To Whom it may Concern : — ^This is to introduce my dear 
friend and Christian brother, the Rev. J. Oyabe, to any good 
willing folk to whom this letter may come. I bespeak for 
him such kind consideration and fraternal helpfulness as it 
may be in any one's power to render. He has been the 
faithful pastor of the Japanese church in the parish under 
my pastoral care and under the support of the church to 



A T THE HA WAIT AN ISLANDS 217 

which I minister. His labors among his cotmtrymen here 
have been greatly blessed. He goes from us, to our g^eat 
regret, to pursue a more extended course of study with a 
view to a wider field of usefulness in his native land. 
Receive him in the Lord, as becometh saints. 

E. G. Beckwith, 
Pastor of the Foreign Protestant 
Church of Makawao, 

" Well done, my boy ! well done ! The Lord 
be with you! He will take care of you/* was the 
Doctor's kind word to me. 

I spent an evening with him, and early the 
next morning I started for New York, and 
thence to New Haven. 

The ** City of Elms '* is as grand as ever, and 
the great University stands in the midst of it as 
a mother of the nation. Since I left there in 
1895, two fine college buildings have been added, 
namely, Phelps and Pierson Halls. All my pro- 
fessors seem the same as they did when I was 
here some years ago. 

I devoted myself now to the study of sociology 
and the more advanced branches of theology, at 
the University. I have spent also much time in 
the study of the American Indians. For I have 
a peculiar interest in these people, so similar to 
those in my country. 

Many years ago, when I read the lives of 
William Carey, Robert Morrison, and David 
Livingston, I was greatly puzzled over the ques- 
tion as to how they ever got such queer notions of 
going among the savages and heathen. But how 



2l8 A JAPANESE CRUSOE 

strange that I have now the same enthusiastic 
missionary zeal which those men had ! " I have 
one passion, and it is He, He alone," I cried, as 
Count Zinzendorf of the Moravian mission ex- 
claimed from his pulpit. 

I cannot tell why I have such a peculiar desire, 
except that I have naturally a strong sympathy 
for those who are weak and neglected, and also a 
profound admiration for a strong and manly 
character. This has led me to love Christ with 
all my heart, and also the helpless aborigines in 
my country. Dr. Mackay, a missionary in For- 
mosa, was passionately desirous of " going to the 
heathen," when he was in the seminary. So was 
the Rev. John Batchelor, a most devoted mis- 
sionary in Yezo. If we ask these gentlemen why 
they had such uncommon notions, I am sure that 
their answer would be the same as mine. 

In Japan *' the harvest truly is plenteous, but 
the laborers are few," and while I should most 
earnestly desire to work among the people here 
the more urgent call comes to me from my native 
land, for the present condition of Christian 
churches there presses heavily upon me ; yet it is 
my sincere prayer to bring those unhappy men 
toward the light of civilization. May the grace 
and mercy of the Lord rest upon these people 
ever and for evermore ! 

Almost fourteen years ago I wandered away 
from my father's house as a poor heathen, yet 
with a strong desire to go to America and to 



A T THE HA W A II AN ISLANDS 2 19 

secure a Christian education. And now I have 
successfully carried out the purpose with which 
I started. 

Here I have written my long story in English, 
which I did not learn from my mother's lips. In 
this narrative, however, I have not explained how 
I got money to feed and clothe myself in the 
different countries, and among the foreign peoples. 
No one but God knows how I have managed 
during my wandering life. How was Daniel pro- 
tected in the lions* den ? God alone knows. So 
with my life. 

" Whence came I ? Memory cannot say. 

What am I ? A substance of God's hands. 
Bound whither ? return and away 
To His hand and heaven." 



^wd fipfi^is book should be returned on 




o-^efV'j 



1 







is book should be returned on 



iwm, 



s= 



7002 



^ 



O ■ "i e-'A 'J 




'(Awd &^f|Jh}s book should be returned on 



k 



n-'IF'Vj 




