


Digitized by Google 


Digitized by Google j 



ADVENTURES 

O F 

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 





**% - 


Digitized by 




' '»>* ‘» n ' v * . ,x< »,* 
■ 1 ,'V 




v / - — t 


K O M A 

\<Pv — / 

VsTK-r-r V . 


Digitized by Google. 


THE 

I F 


(V^ZSr x)/ffl™ 0ST SURPRISING 

v 3%>K5V 




ADVENTURES 


O F 


ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

of York, Mariner; 

Who lived eight and twenty years in an un- 
inhabited ifland on the coaft of America, near 
the mouth of the great river Oroonoque. 


With an account of his deliverance thence , and his 
after furpriling adventures. „ 

#% 
fqo- p n , ( v^\- 

\&\ K °MA )Vc] 

• /> >/ 

•p ~ & ./ 




PARI S: 

Printed by J. G. A/'S toute; 

{ J. N. Pissot, -v 

and 1 BookfellcrSa 

B ARRO IS, junior, J 
Quai des Auguftins. " ? •#/ X 


M. DCC. LX XX; 


tj ‘ J j f A jl 
y \ s //v 




Digi 


i Google 





PREFACE. 


Xf ever the ftory of any private man’s ad- 
ventures in the world were worth making 
public , and were acceptable when published , 
the editor of this account thinks this will be fo. 

The wonders of this man’s life exceed all 
that (he thinks) is to be found extant; the 
life of one man being fcarce capable of a 
greater variety. 

The {lory is told with modefty, with fe- . 
rioufnefs, and with a religious application of 
events to the ufes to which wife men always 
apply them, vi to the inftru&ion of others 
by this example , and to juftifj’- and honour 
the wifdom of Providence in all the variety 
of our circumflances , let them happen how 
they will. 

The editor believes the thing to be a juft 
hiftory of faft ; neither is there any appea- 
rance of fiftion in it : and though he is well 
aware there are many, who on account of 

a 3 


Digitized by Google 


6 The PREFACE. 

the very lingular prefervations the author 
met with , will give it the name of a romance ; 
yet , in which-ever of thefe lights it shall be 
viewed , lfe imagines , that the improvement 
of it, as well to the diverfion , as to the in- 
Rruftion of the reader , will be the fame ; 
and as fuch , he thinks , without farther com- 
pliment to the world , he does them a great 
Service in the publication. 


THE 



LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

O F 

• ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

I ■was born at York, in the year 163a, of a repu« 
table family. My father was a native of Bremen , 
■who , by merchandizing at Hull for fome time » 
gained a very plentiful fortune. He married my 
mother at York, who received her firft breath in that 
country: and as her maiden name was Robinfon , I 
was called Robinfon Kreut\natr ; which not being 
ealily pronounced in the En gl ish tongue, we are com- 
monly known by the name of Crufoe. 

I was the youngeft of three brothers. The eldeft 
was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart’s regiment, but ' 
flain by the Spaniards : what became of the Other, I 
could nfiver learn. 

No charge nor pains were wanting in my educa- 
tion. My father defigned me for the law ; yet no- 
thing would ferve me but I mufi go to fea , both a- 
gainli the will of my father , the tears of my mother, 
and the entreaties of friends. One morning my fa- 
ther expoftulated very warmly with me. What rea- 
fon, fays he , have you to leave your native country, 
where there muft be a more certain profjpeft of con-' 

A4 . 



Digitized by Googl( 


S LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
» tent and happinefs, to enter into a ■wandering coil- 
dition of uneafinefs and uncertainty? He recommend- 
ed to me Augur’s wish , Neither to defire poverty nor 
riches ; that a middle ftate of life was the moft hap- 
py and that the high towering thoughts of railing 
our condition by wandering abroad , werefurround— 
ed with mifery and danger , and oftefl ended with 
confulion and difappointment. I entreat you , nay, 
I command you, (fays he), to delift from thefe inten- 
tions. Conlider your eldeft brother , who laid dowtji 
his life for his honour, or rather loft it for his dif- 
obedi^ce to my will. If you will go, (added he),my 
mfcycrs shall however be offered for your prefervati- 
on ; but a time may come , when , defolate , oppref- 
fed, or forfaken , you may wish you had taken your 
poor defpifed fagher’s counfel. — He pronounced 
thefe words ^fqjpjuch a moving and paternal elo- 
quence , yrhile floods of tears ran down his aged 
cheeks , tnf t it feeraed to ftera the torrent of my re- 
folutions. But this foon wore off, and a little after 
I informed my mother , that I could not fettle to any 
bulinefs , my refolutions were fo ftrong to fee the 
world •, and begged she would gain my father’s con- 
sent only to go one voyage; which, if it did not prove 
profperous , I would never attempt a fecond. But my 
delire was as vain as my folly in asking. My mother 
pallionately expreffed her diflike of this propofal , 
telling me , that as she Jaw I was bent upon my own 
definition , contrary to their will and my duty , she 
would fay no more , but leave me to my f elf to do w kat- 
foever 1 pleafed % 


/ 


Digitized by Google 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9 

1 vas then, I think, nineteen years old , when one 
time being at Hull, I met a fchool-fellow of mine , 
going along with his father , who was matter of a ship, 
to London-, and acquainting him with my wandering 
defires , he affured me of a free paffage, and a plenti- 
ful share of what was neceffary. Thus , without im- 
ploring a blefling , or taking farewell of my parents, 
I took shipping on the firft of September 1651. ¥e 
fet fail foon after; and our ship had fcarce left the 
Humber aftern , when there arofe fo violent a ftorm , 
that, being extremely fea-fick, I concluded the judg- 
ments of God defervedly followed me for mydifobe- 
dience to my dear parents. It was then I called to 
mind the good advice of my father ; how eafy and 
comfortable was a middle ftate of life ; and I firmly 
refolved , if it pleafed God to fet me on dry land 
once more , I would return to my parents , implore 
their forgivenefs , and bid a final adieu to my wan- 
dering inclinations. 

Such were my thoughts while the ftorm continued; 
but thefe goodrefolutions decreafed with the danger; 
more efpecially when my companion came to me ,* 
clapping me on the shoulder : What , Bob ! faid he , 
Jure you was not frightened lajl night with fcarce a cap- • 
full of wind?- And do you, cried I, call fuch a vio- 
lent fiorm a capfull of wind ? A Jlorm , you fool you , 
faid he , this is nothing : a good ship and fea-room al- 
ways baffles fuch a foolish fquawl of wind as that ; but 
you’re a fresh-water fail or : come boy , turn out , fee 
what fine weather we have now , and a good bowl of 
punch will drown all your paft forrows. In short , the 

A j 


i 1 


Digitized by Google 


io LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
punch was made , I was drunk , and in one night’s 
time drowned both my repentance and my good re- 
solutions , forgetting entirely the vows and promifes 
I made in my diftrefs : and whenever any reflexions 
would return on me , what by company, and what 
by drinking, I foon mattered thofe fits, as I deriding- 
ly called them. But this only made way for another 
trial , whereby I could not but fee how much I was 
beholden to kind providence. 

Upon the fixth day we came to an anchor in Har- 
wich road, where we lay wind bound with fome New- 
caftle ships *, and there being good anchorage , and 
©ur cables found , the feamen forgot their late toil 
and danger , and fpent the time as merry as if they 
had been on shore. But on the eighth day there arofe 
a brisk gale of wind , which prevented our tiding it 
up the river ; and ftill increafing , our ship rode fore- 
cattle in , and shipped feveral large feas. 

It was not long before horror feized the feamen 
themfelves , and I heard the matter exprefs tjiis me- 
lancholy ejaculation , Lord have mercy upon us , we 
shall be all lofi and undone ! For my part , lick unto 
death, I kept my cabin, till the univerfal and terribly 
dreadful apprehenfions ofour fpeedy fate made me get 
upon deck : and there I was affrighted indeed. The 
fea went mountains high : I could fee nothing but 
diftrefs around us : two ships had cut their mails on 
board , and another was foundered : two more that 
had loft their anchors were forced out to the mercy 
of the ocean and , to fave our lives, we were forced 
to cut our foremaft and mainmaft quite away. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. n 

' "Who is there fo ignorant as not to judge of my 
dreadful condition ? I was but a fresh-water failor , 
and therefore it feemed more terrible. Our ship was 
very good, but over loaded; which made the failorS 
often cry out , she would founder : words I then was 
ignorant of. All this while the llorm continuing , 
and rather increaling , the mailer and the more fober 
part of his men went to prayers , expedling death 
every moment. In the middle of the night one cried 
out , we had fprung a leak : another , that thete was 
four foot water in the hold. I was juft reader to ex- 
pire with fear, when immediately all hands were call- 
ed to the pump ; and the men forced me alfo in that 
extremity to share with them in their labour. While 
thus employ ed, the mailer efpying fome light colliers, 
fired a gun as a lignal of dillrefs ; and I not under- 
flanding what it meant, and thinking that either the? 
ship broke, or fome dreadful thing happened , fell 
into a fwoon. Even in that common condition of 
woe , nobody minded me, excepting to thrullme 
fide with their feet , thinking me dead , and it was a! 
great while before I recovered. 

Happy it was for us, when , upon the fignal given, 
they ventured out their boat to faVe our lives. All 
our pumping had been in vain, and Vain had all one 
attempts been , had they not come to our ship’s fide^ 
and our men call them a rope over the fternwith a. 
buoy to it, which after great labour they got hold of, 
and we haling them to us , got into their boat , and 
left our ship,which we perceived fink within left than 
a quarter of an hour •, and thus 1 learned what was 1 

A 6 


Digitized by Google 


il LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

meant by foundering at fea. And now the men in- 
ceffantly laboured to recover their own ship-, but the 
fea ran fo high , and the wind blew fo hard , that 
they thought it convenient to hale within shore-. 
Which , with great difficulty and danger , at laft we 
happily effe&ed, landing at a place called Cromer,not 
far from Winterton light-houfe from whence we all 
walked to Yarmouth, where, as objects of pity, many 
good people furnished us with neceffaries to carry us 
either to Hull or London. 

Strange , that after all this , like the prodigal fon , 
I did not return to my father who , hearing of the 
ship’s calamity, for a long time thought me intombed 
in the deep. No doubt but I should have shared in 
his fatted calf, as the feripture expreffeth it : but my 
ill fate ftill pushed me on , in fpite of the powerful 
convi&ions of reafon and confcience. 

When we had been at Yarmouth three days, I met 
my old companion, who had given me the invitation 
to go on board along with his father. His behavi- 
our andfpeech was altered, and in a melancholy man- 
ner asked me how I did, telling his father who I was, 
and how I had made this voyage for a trial only to 
proceed farther abroad. Upon which the old gentle- 
man turning to me gravely, faid , Young man , you ought 
never to go to fea any more , but to take this for a certain 
fign that you will never profper in a feafaring condition. 
Sir , anfwered /, will you take the fame refolution ? It 
is a different cafe , faid he , it is my calling , and confe - 
quently my duty } but as you have made this voyage for 
0 trial , you fee what ill fuccefs heaven has fet before your 


I 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 13 

tyes i and perhaps our miferies have been on your account % 
like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. But pray what are 
you , and on what account did you go to fea ? Upon 
which I very freely declared my whole ftory ; at the 
end of which he made this exclamation: Ye facred 
powers ! what had I committed , that fuch a wretch 
should enter into my ship , to heap upon me fuch a 
deluge of miferies! But foonrecolle&ing his paflions. 
Young man , faid he , if you do not go back , depend up- 
on it , where-ever you go , you will meet with difafiers 
and difappointments till your father's words are fulfil- 
led upon you. And fo we parted. 

I thought at firft to return home ; but shame op- 
pofed that good motion, as thinkingl should be laugh- 
ed at by my neighbours and acquaintance. So ftrange 
is the nature of youth , who are not ashamed to fin , 
but yet ashamed to repent ; and fo far from being a- 
shamed of thofe a&ions for which they may be ac- 
counted fools , they think it folly to return to their 
duty , which is the principal mark of wifdom. In 
short, I travelled up to London, refolvingupona voy- 
agejand a voyage I foon heard of, by my acquaintance 
with a captain who took a fancy to me , to go to the 
coaft of Guinea. Having fome money, and appearing 
like a gentleman , I went on board not as a common 
failor or foremaft-man ; nay , the commander agreed 
I should go that voyage with him without any ex- 
pence •, that I should be his mefs-mate and compa- 
nion, and I was very welcome to carry any thing with 
me , and make the beft merchandife I could. 

I blefled my happy fortune, and humbly thanked 


. Die 


i by Coogle 


*4 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

my captain for this offer; and acquainting my friends 
in Yorkshire, forty pounds werefentme, thegreateft 
part of which my dear father and mother contri- 
buted to , with which I bought toys and trifles , as the 
captain dire&ed me. My captain alfo taught me navi- 
gation , how to keep an account of the ship’s courfe, 
take an obfervation , and let me into the knowledge 
of feveral ufeful branches of the mathematics. And 
indeed this voyage made me both a failor and a mer- 
chant ; for I brought home five pounds nine ounces 
of gold dull for my adventure , which produced , at 
my return to London , almoft three hundred pounds.' 
But in this voyage I was extremely lick , being 
thrown into a violent calenture through exccllive 
heat , trading upon the coaft from the latitude of 
fifteen degrees north even to the line itfelf. 

Butalas ! my dear friend the captain foon departed 
this life after his arrival. This was a fenfible grief 
to me •, yet I refolved to go another voyage with his 
mate, who had now got command of the ship. This 
proved a very unfuccefsful one for though I did not 
carry quite a hundred pounds of my late acquired 
wealth, (fo that 1 had two hundred pounds left, which 
I repofed with the captain’s widow, who was an ho- 
neftgentlewoman,)yetmy misfortunes in this unhap- 
py voyage were very great. For our ship failing to- 
wards the Canary iflands . we were chafed by a Sallee 
rover ; and in fpite of all the hafte we could make, by 
crouding as much canvas as our yards could fpread , 
or our mails carry, the pirate gained upon us, fo that' 
we prepared ourfelves to fight. They had eighteen 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ij 

guns , and we had but twelve. About three in the 
afternoon there was a defperate engagement, where- 
in many were killed and wounded on both fides : but 
finding ourfelves overpowered with numbers , our 
ship difabled, and ourfelves too impotent to have the 
leaft hopes of fuccefs, we were forced to furrender ; 
and accordingly were all carried prifoners into the 
port of Sallee. Our men were fent to the Emperor’s 
court to be fold there -, but the pirate captain taking 
notice of me , kept me to be his own Have. 

In this condition, I thought myfelf the moftmifer- 
able creature on earth,and the prophecy of my father 
came afresh into my thoughts. However, my condi- 
tion was better than I thought it to be , as will foon 
appear. Some hopes indeed I had that my new pa- 
tron would go to fea again , where he might be taken 
by a Spanish or Portuguefe man of war , and then I 
should be fet at liberty. But in this I was miftaken % 
for he never took me with him , but left me to look 
after his little garden , and do the drudgery of his 
houfe, and when he returned from fea , would make 
me lie in the cabin , and look after the ship. 1 had 
no one that I could communicate my thoughts to , 
which were continually meditating my efcape ; no 
Englishman , Irishman , or Scotfman here , but my- 
felf-, and for two years I could fee nothing pra&i- 
cable , but only pleafed myfelf with the imagination. 

After fome length of time, my patron , as I found, 
grew fo poor , that he could not fit out his ship as u- 
fual : and then he ufed conftantly , once or twice a- 
week , if the weather was fair , to go out a-fishiug , 


Digitized by Google 


i6 


LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

taking me and a young Morefco boy to row the boat; 
and fo much pleafed was he with me for my dexte- 
rity in catching the fish , that he would often fend 
me with a Moor , who was one of his kinfmen , and 
the Morefco youth , to catch a dish of fish for him. 

One morning, as we were at the fport, there arofe 
fuch a thick fog, that we loft fight of the shore : and 
rowing we knew not which way, we laboured all the 
night , and in the morning found ourfelves in the 
ocean , two leagues from land. However, we attain- 
ed there at length , and made the greater hafte , be- 
caufe our ftomachs were exceeding sharp and hun- 
gry. In order to prevent fuch difafters for the future, 
my patron ordered a carpenter to build a little ftate- 
room or cabin in the middle of the long-boat , with a 
place behind it to fteer and hale home the main 
sheet, with other conveniencies to keep him from the 
weather, as alfo lockers to put in all manner of pro- 
vifions , with a handfome shoulder-of-mutton fail , 
gibing over the cabin. 

In this he frequently took us out a-fishing ; and 
one time inviting two or three perfons of diftindfion 
to go with him, made provifion extraordinary, provi- 
ding alfo three fufees with powder and shot, that they 
might have fome fport at fowling along the fea-coaft. 
The next morning the boat was made clean , her an- 
cient and pendants out, and every thing ready ; but 
their minds altering, my patron ordered us to go a- 
fishing, for that his guefts would certainly fup with 
him that night. 

And now 1 began to think of my deliverance in- 


Digitized by Googl 


y 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. i7 

deed. In order to this I perfuaded the Moor to get 
fome provifions on board , as not daring to meddle 
■with our patron’s ■, and he taking iriy advice, we fto- 
red ourfelv^s with rusk bifeuit, and three jars of wa- 
ter. Befides , 1 privately conveyed into the boat a 
bottle of Brandy, fome twine, thread.a hammer, hat- 
chet , and a faw ; and , in particular , fome bees wax, 
which was a great comfort to me,andfervedtomake 
candles. I then perfuaded Muley (forfo was the Moor 
called) to procure fome powder and shot, pretending 
to kill fea curlieus, which he innocently and readily 
agreed to. In short , being provided with all things 
neceffary , we failed out , refolving for my own part 
to make my efcape , tho’ it should coft me my life. 

When we had paffed the caftle , we fell to fishing j 
bu^, though I knew there was a bite , I diffembled the 
matter , in order to put further out to fea. Accord- 
ingly we ran a league further ; when giving the boy 
the helm , and pretending to ftoop for fomething , I 
feized Muley by furprife, and threw him overboard. 
As he was an excellent fwimmer, he foon arofe , and 
made towards the boat •, upon which , I took out a 
fufee, and prefented it at him : Muley , faid 1,7 never 
yet defigned to do you any harm , and feek nothing now 
but my redemption. I know you are able enough to fwim 
to shore , and fave your life ; but if you are refolved to 
follow me , to the endangering of mine , the very moment 
you proceed , 7 will shoot you through the head. The 
harmlefs creature,atthefe words, turnedhimfelf from 
me, and I make no doubt got fafe to land.Then turn- 
ing to the boy Xury , I perceived he trembled at the 


Digitized by Google 


*8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
a&ion ; but I put him out of all fear , telling hint, 
that if he -would be true and faithful to me , I would 
do well by him. And , therefore , faid I , you mu ft ftroke 
your face to be faithful , and , as the Turks have learned 
you yfwear by Mahomet , and the beard of your father , 
or elfe I will throw you into the fea alfo. So innocent 
did the child then look , and with fuchan obliging 
fmile contented that I readily believed him, and 
from that day forward began to love him entirely. 

We then purfued our voyage; and, left rhey should 
think me gone to the Streights mouth , I kept to the 
fouthward to the truly Barbarian coaft ! but in the 
duskof the evening, Ichanged my courfe, and fleer- 
ed dire&ly S. and by E. that I might keep near the 
shore ; and, having a fresh gale of wind, with a plea- 
fant fmooth fea , by three o’clock next day I was 150 
miles beyond the Emperor of Morocco’s dominions. 
Yetftill having the dreadful apprehenfionof being re- 
taken,! continued failing for five days fucceflively,till 
fuchtime as the wind shifting to the fouthward.made 
me conclude , that if any veffel wasln chace of me , 
they would proceed no farther. After fo much fa- 
tigue and thought , I anchored at the mouth of a lit- 
tle river , I knew not what , or where : neither did I 
then fee any people. What I principally wanted was 
fresh water ; and I was refolved about the dusk to 
fwim ashore. But no fooner did the gloomy clouds of 
night begin to fucceed the declining day , than we 
heard fuch barking , roaring , and howling of wild 
creatures , that one might have thought the very 
flraageft monfters of nature, or infernal fpirits , had 


Digitized by 




OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 19 

their refidence there. Poor Xury , almoft dead with 
fear , entreated me not to go on shore that night. 
Suppofing I don't , Xury , faid I , and in the morning we 
should fee men who are worfe than thofe we fear , what 
then ? 0 den we may give dem de shoot gun , replied Xu- 
ry , laughing , and de gun make dem all run away. The 
wit , and broken English which the boy had learned 
among the captives of our nation, pleafed me entire- 
ly; and, to add to his cheerfitlnefs , I gave him a dram 
of the bottle: we could get but little fleep all the night 
for thofe terrible bowlings they made ; and, indeed, 
we were both very much affrighted , when , by the 
rollings of the water , and other tokens , we juftly 
concluded one of thofe monfters made towards our 
boat. I could not fee till it came within two oars 
length, when taking my fufee , I let fly at him/Whe- 
ther I hit him or no , I cannot tell ; but he made to- 
wards the shore , and the noife of my gun increafed 
the ftupendous noife of the monfters. 

The next morning I was refolved to go on shore 
to get fresh water , and venture my life among the 
beafts or favages, should either attack me. Xury faid, 
he would take one of the jars , and bring me fome. I 
asked him why he would go , and not I ? The poor 
boy anfwered , If wild mans come , they eat me , you go 
way. A mind fcarcely now to be imitated , fo con- 
trary to felf-prefervation , the moft powerful law of 
nature ! This indeed increafed my affettion to the 
child. W dl , dear Xury , faid I , we will both go ashore , 
both kill wild mans , and they shall eat neither of us. So 
giving Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a dra*^ 


T 


Digitized by Coogle 


ao LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

we waded ashore , carrying nothing with us but out 
arms , and two jars for water. I did not go out of 
light of the boat , as dreading the favages coming, 
down the river in their canoes -, but the boy feeing a 
low defcent or vale about a mile in the country , he 
wandered to it-, and then running back to me with 
great precipitation , I thought he was purfued by 
fome favage or wildbeaft •, upon which I approach- 
ed, refolving to perish or proteft him from danger. 
Ashe came nearer to me , I fawfomething hanging 
over his shoulders , which was a creature he had shot, 
like a hare , but different in colour , and longer legs; 
however , we were glad of it, for it proved whoie- 
fome and nourishing meat ; but what added to our 
joy was.niy boy allured me there was plenty of wa- 
ter , and that he fee no wild mans. And greater ftill 
was our comfort, when we found fresh water in the 
creek where we were when the tide was out, without 
going fo far up into the country. 

In this place I began to confider that the Canary 
and Cape do Verde illands lay not far off; but having 
no inflrument, I knew not what latitude, or when to 
Hand off to fea for them ; yet my hopes were, I should 
meet fome of the English trading veffels, who would 
relieve and take us in. 

The place I Was in was no doubt that wild coun- 
try , inhabited only by a few , that lies between the 
Emperor of Morocco’s dominions and the Negroes. 

It is filled with wild beafts , and the Moors ufe it for 
hunting chiefly. From this place I thought I faw 
me top of the mountain Teneriffe in the Canaries; 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. it 

Which made me try twice to attain it ; but as often 
was I drove back, and fo forced to purfue my fortune 
along shore. 

Early one morning we came to an anchor under a 
little point of land , but pretty high ; and the tide be- 
ginning to flow , we lay ready to go further in. But 
Xury, whofe youthful and penetrating eyes were 
sharper than mine, in a foft tone , defiredme to keep 
far from land , left we should be devoured. For look 
yonder , may ter , faid he , and fee de dreadful Monfier fafi 
ajleep on de fide ofde hill. Accordingly looking where 
he pointed , I efpied a fearful monfter indeed. It was 
a terrible great lion that lay on shore , covered as it 
were by a shade of a piece of the hill. Xury , faid I, 
you shall go on shore and kill him. But the boy looked 
amazed; Me kill him , fays he , he eat me at one mouth ; 
meaning one mouthful. Upon which I bid him lie 
Rill , and charging my biggeft gun with two flugs , 
and a good charge of powder , I took the beft aim I 
Could to shoot him through the head •, but his leg ly- 
ing over his nofe , the flug broke his knee-bone. 
The lion awaking with the pain, got up,but foon fell 
down , giving the raoft hideous groan 1 ever heard : 
but taking my fecond piece , I shot him through the 
head , and then he lay ftruggling for life. Upon this 
Xury took heart and defired my leave to goon shore. 
Go then .faid I. Upon which , taking a little gun in 
one hand , he fwam to shore with the other, and co- 
ming clofe to the lion , put a period to his life , by 
shooting him again through the head. 

But this was fpending our ammunition in vain , the 


-t* 


•gifcftv.A r .'v\i 



M LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

flesh not being good to eat. Xury was like a chain-* 
pion , and comes on board for a hatchet, to cut off 
the head of his enemy •, but not having ftrengrh to 
perform it , he cut off and brought me afoot. I be- 
thought me however that his skin would be of ufe. 
This work coft Xury and me a whole day ; when 
Spreading it on the top of our cabin, the hoc beams of 
the fun effeftually dried it in two days time , and it 
afterwards ferved me for a bed to lie on. 

And now we failed foutherly , living fparingly on 
out provifions,and went no oftener onshore than we 
Were obliged for fresh water.My defign was to make 
the river Gambia or Senegal, or anywhere about the 
Cape de Verde , in hopes to meet fome European 
ship. If Providence did not fo favour me , my next 
courfe was to feek for the iflands , or lofe my life a- 
mong the negroes. And in a word , I put my whole 
ftrefs upon this , « Either that I muft meet with fome 
»» ship , or certainly perish m. 

One day as we were failing along, we faw people ftand 
on the shore looking at us ; we could alfo perceive' 
they were black and ftark naked. I was inclined to 
go on shore, but Xury cried. No, no ; however, I ap- 
proached nearer.and I fbundthey run along the shore 
by me a good way. They had no weapons in their 
hands, except one, who held a long flick, which Xu- 
ry told me was a lance, with which they could kill at 
a great di fiance. I talked to them byflgns, and made 
them fenfible I wanted fomething to eat ; they bec- 
koned to me to flop my boat , while two of them ran 
up into the country , and in lefs than half in hour 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. *J 

came back, and brought with them two pieces of dry 
flesh, and fome corn, which we kindly accepted : and 
to prevent any fears on either fide , they brought the 
food to the shore, laid it down,then went and flood a 
great way off till we fetched it on board , and then 
came clofe to us again. 

But while we were returning thanks to them , be- 
ing all we cpuld afford , two mighty creatures came 
from the mountains , one as it were purfuing the o- 
ther with great fury , which we were the rather in- 
clined to believe , as they feldom appear but in the 
night ; and both thefe fwiftly palling by the negroes , 
jumped into the fea , wantonly fwimming about , as 
though the diverfion of the waters had put a flop to 
their fiercenefs. At laft one of them coming nearer to 
my boat than I expe&ed or defired , I shot him di- 
re&ly through the head ; upon which he funk imme- 
diately, yet riling again, would have willingly made 
to the shore; but between the wound and the ftrang- 
ling of the water , he died before he could reach it. 

It is impoffible to exprefs the confternation the 
poor negroes were in at the firing of my gun; much 
lefs can I mention their furprife , when they percei- 
ved the creature to be llainbyit.Imade figns to them 
to draw near it with a rope, and then gave it to them 
to hale on shore. It was a beautiful leopard , which 
made me defire its skin : and the negroes Teeming to 
covet the carcafe , I freely gave it to them. As for 
the other leopard , it made to shore , and ran with a 
prodigious fwiftnefs out of fight. The negroes ha- 
ving kindly furnished me with water , and with wha$ 

§ 




Digitized by Google 


24 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

roots and grains their country afforded , I took my 
leave, and, after eleven days fail , came in fight of 
the Cape Verde, and thofe iflands called by its name. 
But . the great diftance I was from it , and fearing con- 
trary winds would prevent my reaching them , I be- 
gan to grow melancholy and dejefted , when , upon a 
fudden , Xury cried out , Maytcr ! mayterl a ship with 
. a fail ! and looked as affrighted as if it was his mailer's 

ship fent in fearch of us. But I foon difeovered she 
was a Portuguefe ship , as I thought , bound to the 
coaft of Guinea for negroes. Upon which I ftrove 
for life to come up to them. But vain had it been* 
if through their perfpe&ive glaffes they had not per- 
ceived me , and shortened their fail to let me come 
up. Encouraged at this, I fet up my patron’s ancient , 
and fired a gun , both as fignals of diftrefs •, upon which 
they very kindly lay to , fo that in three hours time I 
came up with them.They fpoke to me in Portuguefe t 
Spanish , and French , but neither of thefe did I un- 
derftand •, till at length a Scots failor called , and then 
I told him I was an Englishman , who had efcaped 
from the Moors at Sallee ; upon which they took me 
kindly on board , with all my effects. 

Surely none can exprefs the inconceivable joy I felt 
at this happy deliverance ; who, from being a late mi- 
serable and forlorn creature, was not only relieved , 
but in favour with the mailer of the ship , to whom , 
in return for my deliverance , I offered all I had. God 
forbid , faidhe, that 1 should take any thing from you. 

. Every thing shall be delivered to you when you come to 
Brazil, If I have faved your life , it is no more than I 
* should 




OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. a* 

should expect to receive my/elf from any other , when , in 
the fame circumfiances , 1 should happen to meet the like 
deliverance. And should I take fromyou what you have , 
and leave yon at Brazil , why , this would be only taking 
away a life I have given. My charity teaches me bet- 
ter. Thofe- effects you have will fupport you there , and 
provide you a pajfage home again. And indeed , he. 
a&ed with the ftri&efl juftice in what he did , taking 
my things into his poffeffion , and giving me an exaCfc 
inventory, even to my earthen jars. He bought my 
boat of me for the ship’s ufe , giving me a note o£ 
eighty pieces of eight , payable at Brazil ; and if any 

I body offered more , he would make it up. He alfo 
gave me fixty pieces for my boy Xury. It was with 

( great reluctance I was prevailed upon to fell the child’s 
liberty, who hadferved me fofaithfully * but the boy 
was willinghimfelf ; and it was agreed, that after ten 
years he should be made free, upon his renouncing 
Mahometauifm , and embracing Chriftianity. 

Having a pleafant voyage to the Brazils, we arrived 
in the Bay de Todos los Santos , or All-Saints Bay, 
in twenty-two days after. And here I cannot forget 
the generous treatment of the captain. He would take 
nothing for my paflage , gave me twenty ducats for 
the leopard’s skin , and thirty for the lion’s. Every 
thing he caufed to be delivered , and what I would 
fell he bought. In short , I made about 220 pieces of 
my cargo ^ and with this flock I entered once more , 
as I may fay , into the feene of life. 

Being recommended to an honeft planter , I lived 
with him till fuch time as I was informed of the man- 

B 


Digitized by Googlf 


S6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ner of their planting and making fugar ; and feeing 
how well they lived , and how fuddenly they grew 
rich , I was filled with a defire to fettle among them, 
and refolved to get my money remitted to me , and 
to purchafe a plantation. 

To be brief, Iboughtafettlement next door to an 
honeft and kind neighbour , bornatLifbon,-ofEng-» 
lish parents , whofe plantation joining to mine , we 
improved it very amicably together. Both our flocks 
Were low,and for two years we planted only for food: 
but the third year we planted fome tobacco , and each 
of us drelTed a large piece ofground the enfuingyear 
for planting canes. But now I found how much l 
wanted afliflance , and repented the Iofs of my dear 
boy Xury. 

Having none to affift me , my father’s words came 
into my mind *, and I ufed to ask myfelf , if what I 
fought was only a middle ftation oflife, why could it 
not as well be obtained in England as here? when I 
pondered on this with regret, the thoughts of my late 
deliverance forfook me. 1 had none to converfe with 
but my neighbour •, no work to be done but by my 
own hands ; it often made me fay my condition was 
like to that of a man caft upon a defolate ifland. So 
unhappy are we in our refledions,fo forgetful of whafc 
good things we receive outfelves, and fo unthankful 
for our deliverance from thofe calamities that others 
endure. 

I was in fome meafure fettled , before the captain , 
who took me up, departed from the Brazils. One 
day 1 went to him , and told him what flock I had in 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. Vj 
London, defiring his afliftance in getting it remitted ; 
to "which the good gentleman readily confented, but 
would only have me fend for half my money , left it 
should mifcarry •, which , if it did , I might ftill have 
the remainder to fupport me : and fo taking letters of 
procuration from me , bid me trouble myfelf no far- 
ther about it. 

And , indeed , wonderful was his kindnefs towards 
me ; for he not only procured the money I had drawn 
for upon my captain’s widow, but fert me overafer- 
vant with a cargo, proportionable to my condition. 
Hea'fo fent me over tools of all forts, iron work, and 
utenfils neceffary for my plantation , and which pro- 
ved of the greateft ufe to me in my bufinefs. 

Wealth now accumulating on me, and uncommon 
fuccefs crowning my profperous labours , I might 
have refted happy in that middle flate of life my fa- 
ther had fo often recommended ; yet nothing would 
content me , fuch was my evil genius , but I mull 
leave this happy ftation , for a foolish ambition in ri- 
ling •, and thus, once more , I call myfelf into the 
deepeft gulf of mifery that ever poor creature fell in- 
to. Having lived four years in Brazil , I had not only 
learned the language , but contracted acquaintance 
with the moil eminent planters ,and even the mer- 
chants of St Salvadore to whom , once , by way of 
difcour fe.having given an account of my two voyages 
to the coaft of Guinea , and the manner of trading 
there for mere trifles, by which we furnish our plan- 
tations with negroes, they gave fuch attention towhat 

1 faid , that three of them came one morning to me , 

B* 


u 


Digitized by Google 


18 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and told me they had a fecret propofal to make. Af- 
ter enjoining me to fecrecy, (it being an infringement 
on the powers of the kings of Portugal and Spain) 
they told me they had a mind to fit out a ship to go 
to Guinea , in order to flock the plantation with ne- 
groes, which,as they could not be publicly foldjthey 
would divide among them -, and if I would go their 
fupercargo in the ship , to manage the trading part, I 
should have an equal share of the negroes , without 
providing any flock. The thing indeed was fair e- 
nough , had I been in another condition. But I , 
born to be my own deftroyer, could not refill the pro- 
pofal, but accepted the offer, upon condition of their 
looking after my plantation. So making a formal 
will, I bequeathed my effefts to my good friend the 
captain , as my univerfal heir ; but obliged him to 
difpofe of my effe&s as direfled , one half of the pro- 
duce to himfelf ,and the other to be shipped to Eng- 
land. 

The ship being fitted out , and all things ready , we 
fet fail the firft ofSeptember 1659, being the fame day 
eight year I left my father and mother in Yorkshire, 
We failed northward upon the coafi,in order to gain 
Africa , till we made Cape Auguftine •, from whence 
going farther in the ocean , out of fight of land , we 
fleered asthoughwe were bound for the ifle Fernand 
de Norenba, leaving the iflands on the eaft ; and then 
it was we met with a terrible tempeft , which conti- 
nued for twelve days fucceflively , fo that the winds 
carried us wherefoeverthey pleafed. In thisperplex- 
ity one of our men died , and one man and a boy 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 29 

Vere -washed overboard. When the weather cleared 
up a little, we found ourfelves eleven degrees north 
latitude , upon the coaft of Guinea. Upon this the 
captain gave reafons for returning-, which I oppofed, 
counfelling him to {land away for Barbadoes , which, 
as I fuppofed , might be attained in fifteen days. So 
altering our courfe, we failed north-weftand by weft, 
in order to reach the leeward iftands but a fecond 
ilorm fucceeding , drove us to the weftward; fothat 
we were juftly afraid of falling into the hands of cruel 
favages , or the paws of devouring beads of prey. 

In this great diftrefs , one of our men , early in the 
morning , cried out ,Land, land ! which he had no 
fooner cried out, but our ship ftruck upona fand, and 
in a moment the fea broke over her in fuch a man- 
ner , that we expected we should all have perished 
immediately. We knew nothing where we were , or 
upon what land we were driven ; whether an ifland 
or the main , inhabited or not inhabited ; and we 
could not fo much as hope that the ship would hold 
out many minutes , without breaking in pieces . ex- 
cept the wind by a miracle should turn about imme- 
diately. While we flood looking at one another , 
expedling death every moment, the mate lays hold o£ 
the boat , and with the help of the reft got her flung 
over the ship’s fide, and getting all into her , being 
eleven of us , committed ourfelves to God’s mercy, 
and the wild fea. And now we faw that this laft ef- 
fort would not be a fufficient protection from death; 
fo high did the fea rife, that it was impoflible the boat 
should live. As to making fail, we had none neither 

» 1 


by Google 


3 o LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

if we had , could we make ufe of any. So that when 
we had r*>wed , or rather were driven about a league 
and a half , a raging wave , like a lofty mountain » 
came rolling aftern of us , and took us with fuch fu- 
ry , that at once itoverfet the boat. Thus being fwal- 
lowed up in a moment, we had hardly time to call 
upon the tremendous name of God : muchlefs to imr 
plore , in dying ejaculations , his infinite mercy to 
receive our departing fouls. 

Men are generally counted infenfible, when ftrug- 
gling in the pangs of death •, but while I was over- 
whelmed with water , I had the mod dreadful appre- 
henfions imaginable. For the joys of heaven and the 
torments ofhell,feemed to prefent themfelves before 
me in thefe dying agonies, and even fmall fpace of 
time , as it were , between life and death. I was go- 
ing, I thought , I knew not whither , in a difmal gulf 
unknown , and as yet unperceived , never to behold 
my friends , nor the .light of this world any more I 
Could I even have thought of annihilation, or a total 
diffolution of foulaswell as body, the gloomy thoughts 
©fhaving no further being,no knowledge ofwhatwe 
hoped for , but an eternal quietus , without life or 
fenfe •, even that, I fay, would have been enough to 
ftrike me with horror and confufxon! I ftrove how- 
ever to the laft extremity, while all my companions 
were overpowered and in tombed in the deep : and it 
was with great difficulty I kept my breath till the 
wave fpent itfelf, and retiring back , left me on the 
shore half dead with the water 1 had taken in. As 
foon as I got on my feet , 1 ran as faft as 1 could , left 


\ 


Digitized by Google 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 31 

another wave shouldpurfue me, and carry me back a- 
gain. But, for all the hafte I made , I could^not avoid 
it; for the fea came after me like a high mountain, 
pr furious enemy; fo that my bufinefs was to hold my 
breath , and by railing my felf on the water , prefer ve 
it by fwimming. The next dreadful wave buried me 
at once twenty or thirty feet deep , but at the fame 
time carried me with a mighty force and fwiftnefsto* 
.ward the shore ; when railing myfelf , J held out as 
well as pollible , till at length the water having fpcnt 
itfelf, began to return, at which I ftruck forward f 
and feeling ground with my feet , I took to myheel^ 
again. Thus being ferved twice more , I was at laft 
dashed againft a piece of a rock , in fuch a manner as 
; left me fenfelefs ; but recovering a lit .le before the 
.return of the wave , which , no dqubt , would then 
Jhave overwhelmed me , I held fall by the rock till 
•thofe fucceeding waves abated; and then fetching 
another run , was overtaken by a fmall wave, which 
was foon conquered. But before any more could o- 
vertake me, I reached the main land, where clamber- 
ing up the clifts of the shore , tired and almollfpent, I 
fat down on the grafs , free from the dangers of the 
foaming ocean. 

No tpngue can exprefs the ecllalies and tranfports 
that my foul felt as this happy deliverance. It was 
like a reprieve to a dying malefactor, with the halter 
about his neck , and ready to be turned off. I was 
wrapt up in contemplation , and often lifted up my 
hands, with the profoundeft humility, to the divine 
powers, for faying my life, when the reft of my comr 

B 4 




Digitized by Google 


31 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
panions ■were all drowned. And now I began to caft 
my eyes around , to behold what place 1 was in , and 
what I had next to do. I could fee no houfe nor peo- 
ple : I was wet, yet had no clothes to shift me ; hun- 
gry and thirfty ,yet had nothing to eat or drink-,no wea- 
pon to deftroy any creature for my fuftenance.nor de- 
fend myfelf againft devouring hearts •, in short , I had 
nothing but a knife , a tobacco-pipe , and a box half 
filled with tobacco. The darkfome night coming up- 
on me , increafed my fears of being devoured by wild 
creatures •, my mind was plunged in defpair , and ha- 
ving no profpeft , as I thought, of life before me, I 
prepared for another kind of death than what I had 
lately efcaped. I -walked about a furlong to fee if I 
could find any fresh water, which I did , to my great 
joy •, and taking a quid of tobacco to prevent hunger, 
1 got up into a thick bushy tree, and fearing my felf fo 
that I couldnot fall, a deepfleep overtook me,andfor 
that night buried my forrows in a quiet repofe. 

' It was broad^ay the next morning before I awa- 
ked ; when I not only perceived the tempeft was 
ceafed , but faw the ship driven almoft as far as the 
rock before mentioned, which the waves had dashed 
me againft , and which was about a mile from the 
place where I was. When I came down from my 
apartment in the tree,I perceived the ship’s boat two 
miles diftant on my right hand , lying on shore , as 
the waves had caft her. 1 thought to have got to 
her •, but there being an inlet of water of about half 
a mile’s breadth between it and me , I returned again 
towards the ship, as hoping to findfomething for my 


Digitized by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 33 
more immediate fubfiftence. About noon , when the 
fea was calm , that I could come within a quarter of 
a mile of her , it was to my grief I perceived, that, if 
we had kept on board, all our lives had been faved, 
Thefe thoughts , and my folitude , drew tears from 
my eyes , though all in vain. So refolving to get to 
the ship , I ftripped and leaped into the water ; when 
fwimming round her I was afraid I should not get 
•any thing to lay hold of-, but it was my good fortune 
to efpy a fmall piece of rope hang down by the fore- 
chains , fo low , that , by the help of it, though with 
great difficulty, I got into the forecaftle of the ship. 
Here I found that the ship was bulged, and had a great 
deal of water in her hold •, her ftern was lifted up a- 
gainft a bank , and her head almoft to the water. All 
her quarter , and what was there , were free and dry.' 
The provifions I found in good order , with which I 
crammed my pockets ; and, lofing no time, ate while 
I was doing other things •, I alfo found fome rum , of 
which I took a hearty dram ; and now I wanted for 
nothing except a boat, which indeed was all, to carry 
away what was needful for me. 

Neceffity occafions quicknefs of thought. We had 
feveral fpare yards , a fpare topmaft or two , and two 
or three large fpars of wood. With thefe 1 fell to 
work , and flung as many of them over board as I 
• could manage , tying every one of them with a rope 
that they might not drive away. This done , I went 
down the ship’s fide, and tied four of them faft toge- 
ther at both ends , in form of a raft , and laying two 
or three short pieces of plank upon them crofswife,! 


34 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

found it would bear me , but not any considerable 
weight. Upon which I went to work again , cutting 
a fpare topmafl into three lengths , adding them to 
my raft with a great deal of labour and pains. I then 
confidered what I should load it with, it being not 
able to bear a ponderous burden. And this I foon 
thought of, firfl laying upon it all the planks and 
boards I could get ; next I lowered down three of the 
feamen’s chefts , after I had filled them with bread, 
rice, three Dutch cheefes , five pieces of dried goats 
flesh , and Some European corn.what little the rats had 
fpared •, and for liquors , I found feveral cafes of bot- 
tles belonging to our skipper , in which were Some 
cordial waters, and four orfive gallons of rack, which 
I flowed by themfelves. By this time the tide begin- 
ing to flow , I perceived my coat , waiflcoafl , and 
shirt fwim away , which I had left on the shore ; as 
for my linen breeches and flockings , I fwam with 
them onto the ship: but I Soon found clothes enough, 
though I took no more than I wanted for the prefent. 
My eyes were chiefly on tools to work with ; and, 
after long fearch , I found out the carpenter’s chefl , 
which I got Safe down on my raft. I then looked for 
arms and ammunition , and in the great cabin found 
two goodfowling pieces, two piflols, feveral powder- 
horns filled, a fmall bag of shot , and two old rufty 
fwords. I likewife found three barrels of powder , 
two of which were good, but the third had taken wa- 
ter, alfo two or thee broken oars, two faws , an axe, 
and a hammer. I then put to fea , and in getting to 
shore had three encouragements, i* A fmooth calm 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 35 

fea. The tide riling and fetting in to the shore. 
3. The little wind there was blew towards land. Af- 
ter I had failed about a mile , I found the raft to drive 
a little diftance from the place where I firft landed ; 
and then Iperceived a little opening of the land, with 
a ftrong current of the tide running into it ; upon 
which I kept the middle of the ftream. But great 
was my concern , when on a fudden the forepart o£ 
my raft ran aground : fo that had I not , with great 
difficulty, for near half an hour, kept my back ftrain- 
ing againft the chefts to keep my effetts in their 
places , all I had would have gone into the fea. But 
after fome time , the rifmg of the water caufed the 
raft to float again , and coming up a little river with 
land on both ftdes , I landed in a little cave , as near 
the mouth as poflible, the better to difeover a fail , if 
any fuch providentially palled that way. 

Not far off, I elpied a hill of a ftupendous height , 
furrounded with leffer hills about it, and thither I was 
refolved to go and view the country, that I might fee 
what part was bell to fix my habitation in. Accord- 
ingly, arming myfelf with a piflol , a fowling-piece , 
powder and ball , I afeended the mountain. There 
I perceived I was in an ifland, encompaffedby the 
fea •, no diftant lands to be feen , but fcattering rocks 
• that lay. to the weft : that it feemed to be a barren 
place, and, as I thought, inhabited only by wild 
beafts. I perceived abundance of fowls , but igno- 
rant of what kind, or whether good for nourishment. 
I shot one of them at my return , which occafioned a 
confufed fcrcaming among the other birds j and I 

B $ 


36 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

found it, by its colours and beak, to be a kind of a 
hawk , but its flesh was perfeft carion. 

When I came to my raft , I brought my effe&s on 
shore , which work fpent that day entirely ; and fear- 
ing that fome cruel beafts might devour me in the 
night time while I flept, I made a kind of hut or bar- 
ricade with the chefts and boards I had brought on 
shore. That night I flept very comfortably ; and the 
next morning my thoughts were employed to make 
a further attempt on the ship , and bring away what 
neceflaries I could find , before another ftorm should 
. break her to pieces. Accordingly , I got on board as 
before, and prepared a fecond raft , far more nice than 
the firft j upon which I brought away the carpenter’s 
flores , two or three bags full of nails , a great jack- 
fcrew , a dozen or two of hatchets, and a grindftone. 
I alfo took away feveral things that belonged to the 
jgunner , particularly two or three iron crows , two 
barrels of musket bullets , another fowling-piece , a 
fmall quantity of powder , and a large bagful of 
fmall shot. Befides thefe, I took all the men’s clothes 
I could find , a fpare foretop-fail , a hammock , and 
fome bedding ; and thus completing my fecond car- 
go, I made all the hafte to shore I could, fearing fome 
wild beaft might deftroy what I had there already. 
But I only found a little wild cat fitting on one of 
the chefts , who not feeming to fear me , or the gun 
that I prefented at her, I threw her a piece of bifcuit, 
which she ioftantly ate , and departed. 

When I had gotten thefe effetts on shore , I went 

$0 work , in order to make me a little tent with the 


i 

i 


Digitized by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 37 

fail and fome poles which I had cut for that purpofe; 
and having finished it , what things might be dama- 
ged by the weather I brought in, piling all the empty 
chefts and casks in a circle , the better to fortify 
it againft any fudden attempt of man or beaft. After 
this, I blocked up the doors with fome boards, and an 
empty cheft turned the long way out. I then charged 
my gun and piftol, and, lay ing my bed on the ground, 
flept as comfortably , till next morning , as though I 
had been in a Chriftian country. 

Now , though I had enough to fubfift me a long 
time, yet defpairing of a fudden deliverance , or thaf 
both ammunition and provifion might be fpent before 
’ fuch thing happened I coveted as much as I could ; 
and fo long as the ship remained in that condition , I 
daily brought away one neceffary or other , particu- 
larly the rigging , fails , and cordage , fome twine , a 
barrel of wet powder , fome fugar , a barrel of meal , 
three casks of rum , and , what indeed was moll wel- 
come to me , a whole hogshead of bread. 

The next time I went, I cut the cables in pieces, 
carried off a hawfer whole , with a great deal of iron 
work , and made another raft with the mizen and 
fprit-fail-yards ; but this being fo unwieldy , by the 
too heavy burden I had upon it, and not being able 
' fo dexteroufly to guide it, as the former , both my 
cargo and I were overturned. For my part , all the 
' damage I fuftained was a wet skin*, and at low water, 
after much labour in diving , I got moll of the cables, 
and fome pieces of iron. 

Thirteen days had I now Jieen in the illand , and 


Digitized by Coogle 


3$ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

eleven times on board , bringing away all that was 
poffible •, and , I believe, had the weather been calm, 
I should have brought away the whole ship, piece by 
piece. As I was going the twelfth time , the wind 
began to rife •, however, I ventured at low water, and 
rummaging the cabin , in a locker I found feveral ra- 
zors, fcilTars , and fome dozens of knives and forks ; 
and in another thirty fix pounds in pieces of eight , 
lilver and gold. Ah ! fimple vanity , faidl, whom this 
world, fo much dotes on , where is now thy virtue , thy 
excellency to me ? You cannot procure me one thing need- 
ful , nor remove me from this defolate ijland to a place 
of plenty. One of thefe knives , fo meanly efteemed , is 
.to me more preferable than all this heap. E’en there- 
fore remain where thou art , to fink in the deep as un- 
regarded , even as a creature whofe life is not worth 
preferving. Yet , after all this exclamation , I wrapt it 
•up in a piece of canvafs, and began to think of making 
another raft ; but I foon perceived the wind begin to 
arife, a fresh gale blowing from the shore, and the sky 
overcaft with clouds and darknefs ; fo, thinking a raft 
to be in vain , I let myfelf into the water with what 
things I had about me, anditwaswith much difficulty 
I got ashore , when , foon after , it blew a fearful 
florm. . 

That night I flept very contentedly in my little 
■tent, furrounded with allmyeffe&s; but, when I 
looked out in the morning, no more ship was to be 
■ feen. This much furprifed me for the prefent : yet , 
when I confidered I had loft no time, abated no pains, 
and had got every thing ufefulout of her,.LcpmfQited 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 39 

jnyfelf in the beft manner , and entirely fubmitted to 
the will of Providence. 

My next thoughts were , how I should defend and 
fecure myfelf from favages and wild beafts , if any 
fuch were in the ifland. At one time , I thought of 
digging a cave,at another I was for ere&inga tent-, and, 
at length, I refolved to do both : the manner or form 
of which will not, I hope , be unpleafing to defcribe. 

"When I confidered the ground where I was , that 
it was moorish , and had no fresh water near it , my 
refolutions were to fearch for a foil healthy and well 
watered , where I might not only be sheltered from 
the fun’s fcorching heat : but be more conveniently 
. fituated , as well to be fecured from wild men , and 
beafts of prey , as more eafily to difcover any diftant 
fail , should it ever fo happen. 

And, indeed, it was not long before I had my defire. 
I found a little plain near a rifing hill , the front to- 
wards which being as fteep as a houfe-fide , nothing 
could defcend on me from the top. On the fide of 
this rock was a little hollow place, refembling the en- 
trance or door of a cave. Juft before this place , on 
the circle of the green , I refolved my tent should 
ftand. This plain did not much exceed a hundred 
yards broad , and about twice as long , like a delight- 
ful green before my door, with a pleafing, though ir- 
regular, defcent every way to the low grounds by the 
fea-fide, lying on the N. N. W. fide of the hill,fo that 
it was sheltered from the exceflive heat of the fun 
After this I drew a femicircle, containing ten yards in 
its femidiaineter, and twenty yards in the whole* 



Digitized by Google 


4<5 LITE AND ADVENTURES 

driving down two rows of ftrong flakes not fix inches 
from each other. Then with the pieces of cable 
which I had cut on board , I regularly laid them in the 
circle between the piles up to their tops, which were 
more than five feet out of the earth , and after drove 
another row ofpiles looking within fide againft them, 
between two and three feet high, which made me con- 
clude it a little impregnable caftle for men and beafts. 
And for my better fecurity I would have no door, but 
entered in and came out by the help of a ladder , 
which I alfo made. 

Here was my fence and fortrefs , into which I car- 
ried all my riches , ammunition , and ftores. After 
which, working on the rock , what with the dirt and 
ftones I dug out , I not only raifed my ground two 
feet ,but made a little cellar to my manfion-houfe ; 
and this coft me many days labour and pains. One 
day in particular a shower of rain falling, thunder and 
lightening enfued , which put me in terror left my 
powder should take fire, and not only hinder my ne- 
'ceflaryfubfiftence, by killing me food, buteven blow 
lip me and my habitation, To prevent which , I fell 
to making boxes and bags, in order to feparateit , ha- 
ving by me near 150 weight. And thus being efta- 
‘ blished as King of the ifland , every day I went out 
with my gun to fee what I could kill that was fit to 
cat. I foon perceived numbers of goats, but very shy; 
yet having watched them narrowly, and feeing I could 
better shoot off the rocks than when in the low 
grounds, I happened to shoot a she goat fuckling a 
young kid ; which not thinking its dam ilain , flood 


Digitized by Googl 


1 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 4* 

by her unconcerned-, and when I took the dead crea- 
ture up, the young one followed me even to the in- 
clofure. I lifted the kid over the pales , and would 
willingly have kept it alive-, but finding it could not 
be brought to eat , I was forced to flay it alfo for 
my ownfubfiftence. 

Thus entered into as ftrange a fcene of life as ever 
any man was in , I had moA melancholy apprehen- 
fions concerning my deplorable condition; and ma- 
ny times the tears would plentifully run down my 
face, when I confidered how I was debarred from all 
communication with humankind. Yet while thefe 
defponding cogitations would feem to make me ac- 
cufeProvidence, other goodthoughtswouldinterpofe 
und reprove me after this manner : "Well , fuppofing 
you are defolate, is it not better to be fo than totally 
perish ? Why were you Angled out to be faved, and 
the reftdeftroyed? Why should you complain,when 
not only your life is preferved , but the ship driven 
even into your reach, in order to take what was ne- 
ceflary out of her for your fubfiftence ? But to pro- 
ceed. It was , by the account I kept , the 30th of 
September when I firft landed on thisifland. About 
.twelve days after , fearing left I should lofe my rec- 
koning of time , nay , even forget the Sabbath-days, 
for want of pen, ink, and paper, Icarvedwithaknife 
upon a large poft , in great letters, and fet it up , in 
the fimilitude of a crofs , on the fea-shore where I 
landed , I came on shore Sept. 30. 1659. Every day I 
cut a notch with my knife on the fides of this fquare- 
poft , and that on Sabbath was a long again as the 


Digitized by Google 


4* LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
reft •, and every firft day of the month as long again 
as that long one. In this manner I kept my calen- 
dar, weekly, monthly , or yearly reckoning oftime. 
But had I made a more ftrifl: fearch , ( as 1 did after- 
wards) , I need not have fet uo this mark. For among 
the parcels belonging to the gunner , carpenter, and 
Captain’s mate , I found thofe very things I wanted-, 
particularly pens , ink , and paper •, alfo I found two 
or three compaffes.fome mathematical inftruments, 
dials, perfpe&iveglaffes, books of navigation, three 
English Bibles , and feveral other good books which 
I carrefully put up. Here I cannot but call to mind 
our having a dog and two cats on board , whom I 
made inhabitants with me in my caftle. Though 
one might think I had all the neceffaries that were de- 
ferable , yet Bill I found feveral things wanting. My 
ink was daily wafting : I wanted needles , pins , and 
thread to mend or keep my clothes together ; and 
particularly a fpade , pick-axe , or shovel, to remove 
the earth. It w'as a year before I finished my little 
bulwark and having fome intervals of relaxation, 
after my daily wandering abroad for provifion,Idrew 
up this plan , alternately , as creditor and debtor, to 
remind me of the miferies and bleffings of my life - , 
under fo many various circumftances. 

Good. 

But yet I am prefer- 
red , while my companions 
are perished in the raging 
ocean. 

Yet fet apart to be f pared, 


) 

■ J 

Digitized by Google 


Evil. - 

lam cafi upon a defolate 
if and , having no hopes, no 
profpeci of a welcome deli- 
verance. 

How miferably am I fin- 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 4$ 


Evil. 

fled out from the enjoy- 
ment or company of all 
mankind. 

Like an hermit ( rather 
should I fay a lonely ancho- 
rite ) am I forced from hu- 
man converfation. 

My clothes after fome 
time will he worn out ; and 
then I shall have none to 
cover me. 

When my ammunition is 
wafled , then shall I re- 
main without any defence 
eigainfi wild men and beafts. 

_ I have no creature , no 
foul to fpeak to ; none to 
beg affiflance from. Some 
comfort would it be to re- 
found my woes where I am 
under flood , and beg affl fi- 
ance where I might hope 
for relief. 


Good. 

from death. And he, who has 
fo preferved me, can deli- 
ver me from this condition • 

However , I have food 
to eat , and even a happy 
prof peel of fubfiftence whilfi 
life endures. 

At prefent I enjoy what 
is abfolutely needful ; and 
the climate is fo hot , that 
had I never fo many , i 
should hardly wear them. 

Yet if it does , I fee no 
danger of any to hurt me t 
as in Africa : And what 
if I had been caflaway upon 
that coafi. 

Is there not God to cort* 
verfe to , and is not he able 
to relieve thee ? Already 
has he afforded thee fuftc* 
nance , and put it in thy 
power to provide for thy - 


felf till he fends thee a de 
liverance. 


And now eafing my mind a little by thefe reflec- 
tions , I began to render my life as eafy as poflible. 

Imufthereadd , to the defeription I have given of 
.my habitation , that having raifed a turf-wall againft 
the outfide of it j I thatched it fo clofe,as might keep 


\ 


Digitized by Google 


44 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

it from the inclemency of the weather ; I alfo impro- 
ved it within , enlarged my cave , and made a paf- 
fage and door in the rock , which came out beyond 
the paie ofmy fortification. I nextproceedcd to make 
a chair and table , and fo began to ftudy fuch mecha- 
nical arts as feemed to me pra&icable. "When I 
wanted a plank or board, I hewed down a tree with 
my hatchet, making it as thin withmy axe aspofiible, 
and then fmooth enough with an adze to anfwer my 
defigns : yet though I could make no more this way 
than one board out of a tree, in length of time I got 
boards enough to shelter all my ftores , every thing 
being regularly placed , and my guns fecurely hang- 
ing againft the fide of the rock. This made it a 
very pleafant fight to me , as being the refult of vaft 
labour and diligence-, which leaving for a while, and 
me to the enjoyment of , Ishall give the reader an ac- 
count of my Journal from the day of my landing * 
till the fixing and fettling of my habitation , as here^ 
tofore shewn. 

JOURNAL. 

SEptember 30th, 1659 , 1 unhappy Robinfon Crufoe, 
having fuffered shipwreck , was driven on this 
defolate Ifland, whichl named the Defolate Ifland of 
Defpair , the reft being fwallowed up in the tempe- 
ftuous ocean. The next day I fpent in confideration 
of my unhappy circumftances •, having no profped 
but of death , either to be ftarved with hunger, or de- 
voured, by beafts or mercilefs favages. 


4 


Digitized by Googfe" 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 45 

O&ob. i. That morning, with great comfort , I be. 
held the ship drove ashore. Some hopes I had , that 
when the ftorm was abated , I might be able to get 
fome food and neceffaries out of her ; which I con- 
ceived were not damaged , becaufe the ship did Band 
upright. At this time 1 lamented the lofs of my com- 
panions , and our misfortune in leaving the veffel. 
When I perceived the ship as it were lie dry , I wa- 
ded through the fands , then fwam aboard , the wea- 
ther being very rainy, and with fcarcely any wind. 

To the 14th of this month , my time was employ- 
ed in making voyages , every tide getting what 
I could out of the ship. The weather very wet and 
uncertain. 

Ottob. zo. My raft and all the goods thereon were 
overfet ; yet I recovered moft again at low water. ^ 
O&ob. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and day, 
when the ship went in pieces , fo that nothing was 
feen of her but the wreck at low water. This day 
I fecured my goods from the inclemency of the 
weather. 

O&ob. 26. 1 wandered to fee where I could find 
a place convenient for my abode. I fixed u, on a rock 
in the evening , marked out a half-moon , intending 
to erett a wall, fortified with piles, lined within with 
pieces of cables , and covered with turf. 

Nov. 1 1 erefted my tent under a rock , and took 
up my lodgings very contentedly in a hammock 
that night. 

Nov. 2. This day I fenced myfelf in with timber, 
chefts , and boards, ; 


46 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Nov. 3 . 1 shot two wild fowls refembling ducks, 
which were good to eat , and in the afternoon made 
me a table. 

Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the morn- 
ing I allowed myfelftwo or three hours to walk out 
with my gun; I then worked till near eleven o’clock 
and afterwards refreshed myfelf with what 1 had to 
eat. From twelve to two I would lie down to fleep. 
Extreme fultry weather. In the evening got to work 
again. 

' Nov. 5. "Went out with my gun and dog , shot a 
wild cat with a foft skin , but her flesh was good for 
nothing. The skins of 'hofe 1 killed , I preferved. In 
my return , I perceived many wild birds,and was ter- 
rified by fomefeals which made off to fea. 

Nov. 6. Completed my table. 

Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked till the 12th , 
but omitted the nth, which , according to my calcu- 
lation , I fuppofed to be Sunday. 

Nov. 13. Rain in abundance , which, however, 
much cooled the earth ; with thunder and lightening, 
caufed in me a terrible furprife. The weather clear- 
ing , I fecured my powder in feparate parcels. 

Nov. 14.-16 . 1 made little boxes for my powder, 
lodging them in feveral places.- I alfo shot a large 
fowl , which proved excellent meat. 

Nov. 17. 1 began to dig in the rock , yet was obli- 
ged to deftfi: for want of a pick-axe , shovel and 
whi el-barrow. Iron crows I caufed to fupply the 
place of the firfl; but with all my art I could not 
make a wheel-barrow. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 47 

' Nov. 18. It was my fortune to find a tree, refem- 
faling what the Brazilians call an iron tree. I had like 
to have fpoiled my a^e with cutting it , being very 
hard and exceeding heavy •, yet , with much labour 
and induftry , I made a fort of a fpade out of it. 

Nov. 13. Thefe tools being made, I daily carried 
on my bufinefs ; eighteen days I allowed for enlarging 
my cave,that it might ferve me.not only for a ware- 
houfe , but kitchen, parlour, and cellar. I commonly 
lay in the tent, unlefsthe weather was rainy that I 
could not laelie dry. So wet would it be at certain fea- 
fons , that I was obliged to cover all within the pale 
with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning a- 
gainft the rock, and load them with fligs and large 
leaves of trees, refemblinga thatch. 

Dec. 10. No fooner did I think my habitation fi- 
nished, but fuddenly a great deal of the top broke in, 
fb that it was a mercy I was not buried in the ruins. 
This occafioned a great deal of pains and trouble to 
me , before I could make it firm and durabfe. 

Dec. 17 . 1 nailed up fome shelves and drove nails 
and fiaples in the wall , and polls to hang things out 
of the way. 

• Dec. 20. Every thing I got into its place , then 
made a fort of a drefler , and another table. 

Dec. 14. 25. Rain in abundance. 

Dec. 26. Very fair weather. 

• Dec. 27 . 1 chanced to lightonfome goats, shot one, 
wounded another. I led it home in a firing , bound 
up his leg , and cured it in a little time ; at length , it 
became fo tame and familiar as to feed before the 


48 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

door , and follow me where I pleafed. This put mg 
in mind to bring up tame creatures , in order to fup- 
ply me with food after my ammunition was fpent. 

Dec. z8 , 29 , 30. The weather being exceflive hot, 
with little air, obliged me, for the moft part, to keep 
within doors. 

Jan. 1. Still fultry. However , obliged by necef- 
fity, I went out with my gun, and found a great ftore 
of goats in the valleys; they were exceedingly shy, 
nor could my dog hunt them down. 

- Janv. 3 , to 14. My employment this time was to 
finish the wall before defcriLed.and fearch the ifland* 
I difcovered a kind of pigeons like our houfe-pigeons 
in a neft among the rocks. I brought them home • 
nurfed them till they could fly, and then they left me 
After this,I shot fome, which proved excellent food. 
Some time I fpent vainly in contriving to make a 
cask ; I may well >ay it was vain , betaufe I could 
neither join the ftaves,or fix the heads, fo as to make 
it tight : fo , leaving that , I rook fome goats tallow 
I had by me , and a little okum for the wick, and 
provided myfelf with a lamp , which ferved me in-, 
ftead of candles. . : 

But now a very ftrange event happened.. For be- 
ing in the height of my fearch, what should copie in- 
to my hand , but a bag , which was ufed to hold corn 
(as 1 fuppofed ) for the fowls : fo immediately revol- 
ving to put gunpowder in it , I shook all the husks 
and dirt upon one fide of the rock , little expe&ing 
what the confequence would be. The rain had fal- 
len plentifully a few days before; and,about a month 

after. 


Digitized by Googl 






OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 49 

after , to my great amazement , fomething began to 
look out very green and flourishing : and when I 
came to view it more nicely , every day as it grew, 
I found about ten or twelve ears of green barley ap- 
peared in the very fame shape and make as that in 
England. 

I can fcarce exprefs the agitations of my mind at 
this fight. Hitherto I had looked upon the attions 
of this life no otherwife than only as the events of 
blind chance and fortune. But now , the appear- 
ance of this barley , flourishing in a barren foil, and 
my ignorance in not conceiving how it should come 
there , made me conclude , That miracles were not yet 
ceafed : nay , 1 even thought that God had appointed 
it to grow there without any feed , purely for my 
fuftenance in this miferable and defolate ifland. And 
indeed fuch great effe£t this had upon me , that it often 
made me melt into tears, through a grateful fenfe of 
God’s mercies; and the greater ftill was my thankful- 
nefs, when I perceived about this little field of barley, 
fome rice ftalks , alfo wonderfully flourishing. 

While thus pleafed in mind , I concluded there, 
muft be more corn in the ifland ; and therefore made 
a diligent fearch narrowly among the rocks : butnot 
being able to find any , on a fudden it came into my 
mind, how 1 had shaken the husks of corn out of the 
bag , and then my admiration ceafed, with my grati- 
tude to the divine Being , As thinking it was but natu- 
ral, and not to be conceived a miracle ; tho’ even the 
manner of itsprefervation might have made me own 
it as a wonderful event of God’s kind providence, 

C 




Digitized by Google 


p LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

It was about the latter end of June when the ears, 
of this corn ripened , whichllaid up very carefully 
together with ao or 30 ftalks of rice , cxpe&ing one 
day 1 should reap the fruit of my labour \ yet four 
years were expiredbeforel could allow my felf to eat 
any barley bread , and much longer time before lhad 
any rice. After this , with indefatigable pains and 
induftryfor three or four months-, at laft I finished 
my wall on the 14th of April , having no way to go 
into it, but by a ladder againftthe wall. 

April 16 . 1 finished my ladder , and afcended it v 
afterwards pulled it up , thenletitdown on the other 
fide and dcfcended into my new habitation, where I 
had fpace enough, and fo fortified, that nothing could 
attack me , without fcaling the walls. 

But what does all human pains and induflry avail, 
if the bleffing of God do not crown our labours ? Or, 
•who can ftand before the Almighty , when heftretch- 
eth forth his arm ? For one time , as I was at the en- 
trance of my cave, there happened fuch a dreadful 
earthquake, that not only the roof of the cave came 
tumbling about my ears, but the polls feemed to crack 
terribly at the fame time. This put me in great a- 
jnazement •, and running to the ladder , and getting 
over the wall, 1 then plainly knew it was an earth- 
quake , the place I Hood on fuftaining three terrible 
shocks in lefs than three minutes. But judge of my 
terror when I faw the top of a great rock roll into the 
fea ■ I then expefted the ifland would be fwallowed 
up every moment : And what made the fcene Hill 
more dreadful, was to fee the fea thrown into the moft 


Digitized by Google 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 51 

violent agitations and diforders by this tremendous 
accident. 

For my part , I flood like a criminal at the place of 
execution ready to expire. At the moving of the 
earth , I was , as it were , fea-fick •, and very much a- 
fraid left the rock , under which was my fence and 
habitation , should overwhelm me and it in a lafting 
tomb. 

. When the third dreadful shock had fpent itfelf, my 
fpirits began to revive •, yet ftill I would not venture 
to afcendthe ladder, but continued fitting, not know 
ing what I should do. So little grace had I then, as only 
to fay , Lord, have mercy upon me ! and no fooner was 
the earthquake over, but that pathetic prayer leftme. 

It was not long after , when a horrible tempeft a- 
rofe , at the fame time attended with a hurricane of 
wind. The fea feemed mountains high , and the 
waves rolled fo impetuoufly , that nothing could be 
perceived but froth and foam. Three hours did this 
ftorm continue, and in fo violent a manner , as to tear 
the very trees up by the roots , which was fucceeded 
by abundance of rain. When the tempeft was over t 
I went to my tent ; but the rain coming on in a fu- 
rious manner, I was obliged to take shelter in the 
cave , where I was forced to cut a channel through 
my fortification to let the water out. It continued 
raining all that night , and fometime the next day. 
Thefe accidents made me refolve,asfoon as the wea- 
ther cleared up , to build me a little hut in fome open 
place , walled round to defend me from wild crea- 
tures and favages ; not doubting but , at the next 

Ci 


■ 


♦ 


5a LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
earthquake , the mountain would fall upon my habi- 
tation and me , and fwallow up all in its bowels. 

April 16-20. Thefe days I fpent in contriving 
how and in what manner I should fix my place of a- 
bode. All this while I was under the moft dreadful 
apprehenfions. When Ilooked round my habitation, 
every thing 1 found in its proper place. 1 had feveral 
refolutions whether I should move or not : but at 
length l refolved to flay wherelwas , till I foundout 
a convenient place where I might pitch my tent. 

• April 22. When I began to put my refolutions in 
praftice , I was ftopt for want of tools and inftru- 
ments to work with. Moft of my axes and hatchets 
wereufelefs, occafioned by cutting the hard timber 
that grew on the ifland. It took me up a full week 
to make my grindftone of ufe to me ; and at laft I 
found out a way to turn it about with my foot , by 
help of a wheel and a ftring. 

. April 28 , 29. Thel'e days were fpent in grinding 
my tools. 

April 30. My bread falling short , I allowed myfelf 
but one bifcuit a day. 

May 1. As I walked along the fea-shore , I found 
a barrel of gunpowder , and feveral pieces of the 
wreck , which the fea had flung up. Having fecured 
thole ,1 made to the ship , whofe ftern was torn off, 
and washed a great diftance ashore ;but the reft lay 
in the lands. This I fuppofe was occafioned by the 
earthquake. I now refolved to keep my old piace of 
abode : and alfo to go to the ship that day , but then 
found it impafiible. 


jitized by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. . ' jj 

May $. This day I went on board, and with my 
faw fawed off one of the beams, which kept her quar- 
ter deck. I then cleared the fand till flood. 

May 4. I caught fome fish , but they were not 
wholefome. The fame day I alfo catched a young 
dolphin. 

€ May $. This day I alfo repaired to the wreck, and 
fawed another piece of timber and when the flood 
Came, I made a float of three great planks , which 
were driven ashore by the tide. 

May 6, 7, 8 , 9. Thefe days 1 brought off the iron 
bolts , opened the deck with the iron crow, and car- 
ried two planks to land , having made away into the 
very middle of the wreck. ’ ■ > 

May 10 , 11 , ii , 13 , 14. All this time I fpent in 
bringing off great quantities of iron and timber. ! 

May is. Took with me two hatchets on purpofe 
to cut off fome lead of the roll, but all in vain , for 
it lay too low under water. 

, May 16 . 1 omitted going to the wreck this day ; ; 
for employing my felf in looking for pigeons , I out.- 
ftaid my time. 

May 17 . 1 perceived feveral pieces of the wreck- 
blown ashore , which I found belonged to the head 
of the ship. 

May 24. To this day I worked on the wreck , and 
with great difficulty loofened fome things fo much 
with the crow , that at the firft flowing tide feveral 
casks floated out , and many of the feamens chefts y, 
yet that day nothing came to land but pieces of tim-» 
bcr , and a hogshead which had fome Brazil pork ip * 

C 3 


Digitized by Google 


u LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

it. I continued working to the ijth of June •,'( ex- 
cept neceflary times for food and reft ) and had 1 
known how to have built a boat , I had timber and 
planks enough: I had alfo near ioo weight of sheet lead. 

June 16. As I was wandering towards the fea-fide, 

I found a large tortoife or turtle , being the firft I had 
feen on the iftand , though , as I afterwards found , 
there were many on the other fide of it. 

June 17. This day I fpent in cooking it , found in 
her threefcore eggs , and her flesh the moft favory 
and pleafant I ever tafted in my life. 

• June 18 . 1 ftaid within this day, there being a con- 
tinual rain •, and it was fomething more chilly and 
cold than ufual. 

June 19. Exceeding bad, taken with a trembling 
and shivering. 

June 10. Awake all night , my head racked with 
pain, and feverish. 

June 21. Sick unto death , and terrified with the 
difmal apprehenfions of my condition. Prayed to 
God more frequently, but very confufedly. 

June 22. Something better , but ftill uneafy in my 
mind 

June 23. Again relapfed much as before. 

June 24. Mended a fecond time. 

June 2j. A violent ague for feven hours , cold and 
hot fits , fucceeded with faint fweats. 

- June 26. Better , but very weak ; yet I fcrambled 
out , shot a she-goat , brought it home , and broiled 
fbme of it : I would willingly have ftewed it , and 
made Come broth , but had no pot. 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. JJ 

June 27. All this day 1 -was affli&ed with an ague ; 
thirfty , yet could not help myfelf to water : prayed 
to God in thefe words ; Lord, in pity , look upon me : 
Lord have mercy upon me ; have mercy upon me ! Af- 
ter this I fell afleep, whichlfound hadmuch refresh- 
ed me when I awaked. I fell afleep a fecondtime, and 
fell into thisftrange and terrible fort of dream. 

Methought I was fitting on the fame fpot of ground 
at the outfide of the wall where I fat when the florin 
blew after the earthquake •, and that I faw a man de- 
fending from a great black cloud , and light upon the 
ground. He was all over as bright as a flash of fire 
that a little before furrounded him •, his countenance 
inconceivably terrible ; the earth as it were trembled 
■when he ftept upon the ground , and flashes of fire 
feemed to fill all the air. No fooner I thought him 
landed upon the earth, but witha long fpear.or other 
■weapon , he made towards me ; but firft afcending a 
fifing ground, his voice added to my amazement, when 
I thought 1 heard him pronounce thefe dreadful 
Words Unhappy wretch ! 1 feeing all thefe things have not 
brought thee to repentance , thou shalt immediately die . 
In pronouncing this dreadful fentence , I thought he 
Went to kill me with the fpear that was in his hand. 

Any body may think it impoflibleforme to express 
the horrors ofmy mind at this vifiony and even when 
1 awaked, this very dream made a deep impreflion up- 
on my mind. The little divine knowledge I had , I 
received from my father’s inftruttions , and that was 
Worn out by an uninterrupted feries offeafaring im- 
piety for eight years fpace. Except what fickneft 

C 4 


L. 


Digitized by Googl 


j6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

forced from me, I do not remember Iliad one thought 
of lifting up my heart towards God •, but rather had 
a certain ftupidity of foul , not having the leaft fenfe 
of fear of the Omnipotent Being when in aiftrefs, nor 
of gratitude to him for his deliverances. Nay , when 
I was on the defperate expedition on the defert Afri- 
can shore , I cannot remember I had one thought of 
•what would become of me, or to beg his confolation 
and afliftance in my fufferings and diftrefs. When 
the Portugal captain took me up,and honourably ufed 
me : nay , farther , when I was even delivered from 
drowning by efcaping to this ifland, I never looked 
upon it as a judgment , but only faid I was an unfor- 
tunate dog ,and that’s all. Indeed, fome fecrettranf- 
ports of foul I had, which was not through grace, but 
only a common flight of joy , that I was yet alive, when 
my companions were all drowned , and no other joy 
could I conceive but what is common with the failors 
over a bowl of punch, after they have efcapedthe 
greateft dangers. ■ . v ' . r 

The likelihood of wanting for neither food nor 
conveniencies , might have called upon me for a 
thankful acknowledgment to Providence. Indeed , 
the growth of my corn touched me with fome fenfe* 
but that foon wore off again. The terrible earth- 
quake pointed to me , as it were , the finger of God f 
but my dreadful amazement continued no longer 
than its duration. But now , when my fpirits began 
to fink under the burden of a ftrong diftemper, 
and I could leifurely view the miferies of death pre- 
fent themfelves before my eyes , then my awakened 


Dig 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOEi ft 
confluence began to reproach me with my paft life, in. 
whichlhad fo wickedly provoked the juftice of God 
to pour down his vengeance upon me. 

Such reflections as thefe oppreffed me even in the 
violence of my diftemper. Some prayers I uttered , 
■which only proceeded from my fear of death. But 
when Iconfideredmy fathers advice and prophecy , 
I could not forbear weeping ; for, he told me , That * 
if I 'did. perfift in my folly , I should not only be deprived 
of God's blefling , but have time enough to reflect upon 
my defpifing his inflections , and this in a -wretched 
time , when none could help me. And now , concluding 
it to be fulfilled , having no foul in the ifland to ad- 
minifter any comfort to me, I prayed earneftly to the 
Lord, that he would help me in this my great calami- 
ty. And this , I think , was the firft time I prayed 
in finceriry for many years. But now I mult return 
to my journal, 

June 28. Something refreshed with fleep , and the 
fit quite off, I got up. My dreamftill occafionned in 
me a great confternation; and, fearing that the ague 
might return the fucceeding day , I concluded it 
time to get fomething to comfort me. I filled a cafe 
bottle with water , and fet it within the reach of my 
bed, and , to make it more nourishing and lefs chilly, 
1 put fome rum in it. The next thing I did was to 
boil me a piece of goat flesh, of which I ate but lit- 
tle, I was very weak-, however, walked about dread- 
\ ing the return of my diftemper •, and at night 1 flip- 
ped on three of the turtle’s eggs, which 1 roafted an4 
ate , begging God’s blefling therewith. 

Cj 


iifc. 


Digitized by Google 


J8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

After I had eaten , I attempted to walk again out' 
of doors with my gun ; but was fo weak , that I fat 
down, and looked at the fea , which was fmooth aha 
calm. While I continued here , thefe thoughts came 
into my mind. 

In what manner is the production of the earth and 
fea, of which I have feen fo much ? From whence 
came myfelf , and all other creatures living , and of 
What are we made ? 

Our beings were affuredly created by fome almigh- 
ty invifible power, who framed the earth, the fea, and 
air , and all therein. But what is that power ? 

Certainly it mult follow , that God has created it 
all. Yet , faid I , if God has made all this , he mull 
he the ruler of them all , and what is relating there- 
to ; for certainly the power that makes , mult indis- 
putably have a power to guide and direft them. And 
if this be fo ( as certainly it mult) nothing can hap- 
pen without his knowledge or appointment. Then , 
fur ely , if nothing happenswithoutGod’s appointment, 
certainly God has appointed thefe my fufferings to 
lefal me. And here I fixed my firm belief, that it 
Was his will that it should be fo; and then proceeded 
to inquire , why should God deal with me in this 
manner ? Or what I had done thus to deferve his 
indignation ? 

Here confcience flew in my face, reprehending me 
as a blafphemer ; crying , with a loud and piercing 
Voice , Unworthy wretch ! dare you ask what you have 
done ? Look upon your pafi life , and fee what you have 
left undone ? Ask thyfelf , why thou wert not long 


OF ROBINSON. CRUSOE. 59 

figo in the mercilefs hands of death ? Why not 
drowned in Yarmouth roads , or killed in the fight, 
when the ship was taken by the Sallee man of war ? 
Why not entombed in the bowels of wild beads on 
the African coaft , or drowned here when all thy 
companions fuffered shipwreck in the ocean ? 

Struck dumb with thefe reflexions , I rofe up in a 
penfive manner,beingfo thoughtful that I could not 
go to fleep ; and fearing the dreadful return of my 
diftemper,it caufed me to remember, that the Brazi- 
lians ufe tobacco for almoft all difeafes. I then went 
to my cheft. in order to find fome, where heaven, no 
doubt , direXed me to find a cure for both foul and 
body, tor there 1 found one of the bibles, which, till 
this time, I hadneither leifure nor inclination tolook 
into; I took both the tobacco and that out of the 
cheft , and laid them on the table. Several experi- 
ments did 1 try with the tobacco: Firft , I took a 
piece of leaf, and chewed but it being very green 
and ftrong , almoft ftupified me. Next I fteeped it 
in fome rum an hour or two , refolving when I went 
to bed to take a dofe of it ; and , in the third place , I 
burnt fome over a pan of fire , holding my nofe over 
it fo long as I could endure it without fuffocation. 

In the intervals of this operation , though my head 
was giddy and difturbed at the tobacco , 1 took up 
the bible to read. No fooner did I open it , but there 
appeared to me thefe words. Call on me in the day of 
trouble , and I will deliver thee , and thou shalt glorify me. 

At firft this fentence made a very deep impreflion 
©n my heart , but it foon wore off again , when 1 

C 6 


Digitized by Google 


to LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

confidered the word deliver was foreign to me, And 
as the children of Ifrael faid , when they were pro- 
mifed flesh to eat , Can Godfpread a table in the wil- 
demefs ? In like manner I began to fay , Can God 
himfelf deliver me from this defolate ifland ? How- 
ever , the words would ftill return to my mind , and 
afterwards made a greater impreflion upon me. As 
it now was very late, and the tobacco had dozed my 
head, I was inclined to fleep •, but before I would lie 
down, I fell on my knees , and implored the promife 
that God had made to me in the holy fcriptures , 
that , If 1 called upon him in the day of trouble , he 
would deliver wzc.With much difficulty I after drank 
the rum , wherein I had fteeped the tobacco; which 
flying into my head , threw me into fuch a profound 
fleep , that it was three o’clock the next day before 
I awaked ; or rather, I believe , I flept two days, ha- 
ving certainly loft a day in my account , and I could 
never tell any other way. When I got up , my fpi- 
rits were lively and cheerful; my ftomach much bet- 
ter, being very hungry ; and, in short, no fit returned 
the next day , which was the 29th , but I found my- 
felf much altered for the better. 

The 30th , I went abroad with my gun , but not 
far, and killed afea-fowl or two, refembling a brand- 
goofe , which , however , I cared not to eat when I 
brought them home , but dined on two more of the 
turtle’s eggs. In the evening I renewed my medicine, 
excepting that I did not take fo large a quantity , 
neither did I chew the leaf, or hold my head over the 
Cooke : but next day , which was the ift of July , ha* 


Digitizes Dy CjiTogltH 


' N 

X. 

OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 61 

vlng a little fpice of the cold fit , I again took my 
medicine as I did the firft time. ' 

July The fit quite left me, but very weak. In 
this condition, I often thought ofthefe words, I will 
deliver thee; and while at fome times I -would think 
of the impoflibility of it , other thoughts would re- 
prehend me, for difregarding the deliverances I had 
received , even from the moil forlorn and difirefled 
condition. I asked myfelf, what regard havelhad to 
God for his abundant mercies? Have I done my part ? 

Jie has delivered me, but I have not glorified him as 
if I had faid , I had not owned and been thankful for 
thefeasdeliverances,andhowcouldI expedl: greater? 

So much did thisfenfibly touch my heart, that I gave 
God thanks for my recovery from ficknefs in the 
moil humble proftration. 

July 4. This morning I began ferioufiy to ponder 
on w r hat is written in the New Teftamcnt, refolving 
to read a chapter every morning and night as long 
as my thoughts would engage me. As foon as I fet 
about this work ferioufiy , I found my heart deeply 
affe&ed with the impiety of my paftlife-,thefe words 
that l thought were fpoken to me in my dream revi- 
ved , All thefie things have not brought thee to repen- 
tance. After this , I begged of God to afiill me with 
his Holy Spirit in returning to my duty. One day , 
in perufing the fcriptures , I came to thefe words , 

He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour , to give repentance , 
and to give remijfton : immediately I laid down tho 
book , and, with uplifted hands to heaven, loudly 
cried, 0 blcjfied Jefus , thou fort o/David , Jefns thou ex- 


Digitized by Google 


6 i LITE AND ADVENTURES 

alted P rinoe and Saviour , give me repentance l And 
now indeed I prayed with a true fenfe of my conditi- 
on, and a more certain hope •, founded on the word 
of God. Now I had a different fenfe of thefe words. 
Call on me , and I will deliver thee , that is , from the 
dreadful load of guilt, which oppreffed my fmful 
foul, and not from a folitary life which might rather 
be called a bleffing , (feeing I wanted neither food 
nor raiment), when compared with living among the 
human race , furrounded with fo much oppreflion, 
mifery , and afflidfion : In a word , I came to this con* 
clufion , that a deliverance from fin was a much greater 
bleffing than a deliverance from affli&ion. But again 
I proceed to my journal. 

: To the 14th of July.I walked about with my gun, 
little and little at a time , having been reduced to the 
greateft extremity of weaknefs. The applications 
and experiments I ufed were perfedHy new ; neither 
could I recommend them to any one’s pra&ice. For 
though it carried off the fit it very much weakened 
me ; and I had frequently convulfions in my nerves 
and limbs for fome time. From hence I learned , 
that going abroad in rainy weather , efpecially when 
it was attended with ftorms and hurricanes of wind 
Was moft pernicious to health. I had now been above 
ten months in the ifland ; and as I never had feen 
any of the human kind , I therefore accounted myfelf 
as foie monarch; and as I grew better, having fecured 
my habitation to my mind , I refolved to make a tour 
round my kingdom,in order to make new difcoveries. 

- . The 1 j th of July I began my journey, I firft went 


Digitized by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 6j 

to the creek, -where I had brought my rafts on shore 
and travelling farther, found the tide went no higher 
than two miles up.where there was a little brook of 
running water, on the bank of which were many plea- 
fant favannas or meadows,plain,fmooth, and cover- 
ed with grafs. On the riling parts, where I fuppofed 
the water did not reach , I perceived a great deal of 
tobacco growing to a very ftrong ftalk. Severalother 
plants I likewife found, the virtues of which I did not 
underftand. I fearched a long time for the Caflava 
root , which I knew the Indians in that climate made 
their bread of-, but all in vain. There were feveral 
plants of aloes, though at that time I knew not what 
they were •, likewife I faw feveral fugar-canes , but 
imperfect for want of cultivation. "With thefe few 
difcoveriesl came back that night , and llept content- 
edly in my little caftle. 

The next day, being the 16th, going the fame way 
but farther than the day before, I found the country 
more adorned with woods and trees. Here I percei- 
ved different fruits in great abundance. Melons in 
plenty lay on the ground, and clufters of grapes, ripe 
and very rich, fpread over the trees. You may ima- 
gine I was glad of this difcovery , yet ate very fpa- 
ringly , left I should throw myfelf into a flux or fever. 
The grapes I found of excellent ufe ; for when I had 
dried them in the fun,which preferved them as dried 
raifins are kept.they proved very wholefome and 
nourishing , and ferved me in thofe feafons when no 
grapes were to be had. 

Jhe night drawing on apace, I afcended up a tree. 


Digitized by Google 


64 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and flept very comfortably, though it was the firft 
time I had lain out of my habitation. And when the 
morning came , I proceeded with great pleafure on 
my way , travelling about four miles •, as I imagined 
by the length of the valley, dire tting my courfe north- 
ward, there being a ridge of hills on the fouth and 
north fide of me. At the end of this valley I came 
to an opening where the country feemed to defcend 
to the weft-, there I found a little fpring of fresh wa- 
ter, procecdingoutof thefideofahill,with its cryftal 
ftreams running direttly eaft. And indeed here my 
fenfes were charmedwith the mod beautiful landfcape 
nature could afford: for the country appeared fo flou- 
rishing , green, and delightful , that to me it feemed 
like a planted garden. I then del'cended on the fide 
of that delicious vale, when I found abundance of co- 
coa , orange , lemon , and citron trees, but very wild 
and barren at that time. As for the limes, they were 
delightful and wholefome , the juice of which I after 
ufedto mix in water,whichmadeit very cool and re- 
freshing. And now I was refolved to carry home and 
lay up aflore of grapes, limes, and lemons, againft the 
approaching wet feafon. So laying them up in fepa- 
rated parcels , and then taking a few of each with me * 
I returned to my little caftle , after having fpent three 
days in this journey. Before I got home, the grapes 
were fo bruifed that they were utterly fpoiled -, the 
limes indeed were good , but of thefe I could bring 
only a few. 

July 19. Having prepared two bags , I returned 
thither again} but, to my great furprile , found all the 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 65 

grapes fpread about , trod to pieces , and abundance 
eaten , which made me conclude there were wild 
beafts thereabouts. To prevent this happening againl 
gathereda large quantity of the grapes, and hung them 
upon the out- branches ofthe trees , both to keep them 
unhurt;and that they might cure and dry in the funzand 
having well loaded myfelf with limes and lemons , I 
returned once more to my old place of relidence. 

And now contemplating on the fruitfulnefs of this 
valley , the pleafantnefs of its fituation , its fecurity 
from fforms , and the delightfulnefs of the adjacent 
woods , I concluded I was fettled in the word part of 
the country , and therefore was thinking to remove 
,my habitation. But when I confidered again , that 
though it was pleafant , it was off from the fea-fide 
where there was a pofiibility , fome time or other,a 
ship might either be driven or fail by, and that to 
inclofe myfelf among hills and woods muff certainly 
put an end to my hopes of deliverance •, I refol ded 
to let my caftle remain whereProvidence had fr ft af- 
figned it. Yet fo ravished was I with this place, that 
I made me a little kind of bower, furrounding it with 
a double hedge, as high as I could reach , well ffaked 
and filled with bulrushes ; aud having fpent a great 
part of the month of July, I think it was the firft of 
Auguft before I began to enjoy my labour. 

Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry , I took 
themfrom the trees, and they proved excellent good 
raifms of the fun : the moil of which I carried to my 
cave ; and happy for me l did fo, by which I faved 
the beft part of my winter food. 


\ 


66 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Aug. 14. This day it began to rain ; and though I 
had made me a tent like the other , yet having no shel- 
ter of a hill to keep me from ftorms,nor a cave behind 
me to retreat to , I was obliged to return to my old 
caftle. The rain continued more or lefs every day , 
till the middle of o&ober ; and fometimes fo violently, 
that I could not ftir out of my cave for feveral days. 
This feafon I found my family to increafe ; for one 
of my cats that ran away from me,and who I thought 
had been dead, returned about Auguft , with three 
kittens at her heels, like herfelf; which I thought 
ftrange , becaufe both my cats were females , and the 
wild catsoftheiflandfeemedto be of a different kind 
from our European cats •, but fromthefe cats proceed- 
ed fuch numbers.that I was forced to kill and deftroy 
them as I would do wild beafts or vermin. 

To the 2.6th of this month , I could not ftir out, it 
raining in ceffantly -,w'hen beginning to want food, 
I was compelled to venture twice , the firft of which 
I shot a goat, and afterwardsfound a very large tor- 
toife. The manner of my regulating my food was 
thus : A bunch of raifins ferved me for breakfaft ; a 
piece of goat’s flesh or turtle broiled for my dinner, 
and two or three turtle eggs for my fupper. "While 
the rain lafted , I daily worked two or three hours at 
enlarging my cave , and by degrees worked it on 
towards one fide.till I came to the outfide of the hill, 
and made a door or way out , which came beyond my 
fence or wall , and fo I came in and out this way* 
But after I had done this , I was troubled to fee my- 
felf thus expofedi'though I could not perceive any 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 67 
tiling to fear, a goat being the biggeft creature I had 
feen upon this ifland. 

Sept. 30. Calling up my notches on my poft,which 
amounted to 365, Iconcluded this to be the anniver- 
fary of my landing-, and, therefore, humbly proftra- 
ting myfelf on the ground , confelfing my fins , ac- 
knowledging God’s righteous judgments upon me , 
and praying to Jefus Chrift to have mercy upon me, I 
failed for twelve hours till the going down of the fun ; 
and then eating a bifcuit and a bunch of grapes , laid 
me on the bed , and with great comfort took my 
night’s repofe. Till this time I never had diftinguish- 
ed the Sabbath day -, but now 1 made a longer notch 
than ordinary for the days of reft , and divided the 
•weeks as well as I could , though I found I had loft 
a' day or two in my account. My ink failing foon af- 
ter , I omitted in my daily memorandum things of an 
indifferent nature , and contented myfelf to write 
down only the moll remarkable events of my life. 
The rainy and dry feafons appeared now regular to 
me , and experience taught me how to provide for 
them , yet , in one thing I am going to relate , my ex- 
perience very much failed me. You may call to 
mind what I have mentioned offome barley and rice 
which I had faved -, about thirty ftalks of the former 
and twenty of the latter -, and , at that time , the fun 
being in its fouthern pofition , going from me , toge- 
ther with the rains, made me conclude it a very pro- 
per feafon to fow it. Accordingly I dug up a piece 
of ground , with my wooden fpade , and dividing it 
in two parts, fowed about two-thirds ofmy feed,pre- 


Digitized by Google 


68 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ferving by me about a handful of each. And happy 
it was I did fo ; for no rains falling , it was choked 
up , and never appeared above the earth till the wet 
feafon came again , and then part of it grew , as if it 
had been newly fown. 

- I was refolved ftill to make another trial ; and 
feeking for a moifter piece of ground near my bower 
I there fowed the reft of my feed in February, a little 
before the vernal equinox which having the rainy 
months of March and April to water it , yielded a 
noble crop , andfprung up very pleafantly. I had ftill 
laved part of the feed, not daring to venture all •, 
and by the time I found out the proper feafons to 
low in, and that I might expeft every year two feed- 
times and two harvefts , my flock amounted to above 
half a peck of each fort of grain. 

No fooner were the rains over , but the flakes 
which I had cut from the trees,shotout like willows 
the firft year after lopping their heads. I was igno- 
rant of the tree I cut them from : but they grew fo 
regularly beautiful, that they made a moft lively ap-» 
pearance,and fo flourished in three years time, that 1 
refolved to cut more of them-, and thefefoon growing, 
made a glorious fence , as afterwards I shall obferve. 

And now I perceived that the feafons of the year- 
might generally be divided , not into fummer and 
•winter , as in Europe, but into wet and dry feafons t 
as in this manner. 

{ February , 

March , 

April, ' 


| Rainy ,fun coming near the Equinox. 


J 





OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 69 


April t 
V May 
Half/ June 

I July 
K. Augu fi 

{ Augufl 
September 
October 
October , 
November 
Half^ December 
January . 
.February , 


> Dry , fun getting north of the line. 


tptember, > Wet, 
ctober , J 


the fun being then come back . 



fun running fouth of the line , 


The -wet feafons ■would continue longer or shorter 
as the winds happened to blow. But having found 
the ill confequences of being abroad in the rain , I 
took care beforehand to furnish myfelf with provi- 
fions : and , during the wet months , fat within doors 
as much as poflible. At this time I contrived to make 
many things that I wanted , though it coft me much 
labour and pains , before I could accomplish them. 
The firft I tried was to make a basket ; but all the 
twigs I could get proved fo brittle , that I could not 
then perform it. It now proved of great advantage 
to me , that, when a boy , I took great delight in 
Handing at a basket maker’s in the fame town where 
my father lived , to view them at work ; and , like 
other boys,curious to fee the manner of their work- 
ing thcfe things,and very officious to afliit, I perfect- 
ly learned the method of it , and wanted nothing but 
the tools. And it coming into my mind, that the 


Digitized by Google 


70 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

twigs of that tree of which I made my Hakes , might 
be as tough as fallow , willow, or ofiers, growing in 
England, I refolved to make an experiment, and went 
the next day to my country-feat, and found fome fit 
for my turn •, and after cutting down a quantity with 
my hatchet , I dried them in my pale , and , when fit 
to work with, carried them to my cave , where I em- 
ployed myfelfin making feveral forts of baskets, in- 
fomuch that I could put in whatfoever I pleafed. It 
is true, they were not cleverly made,yetthey ferved 
my turn upon all occafions. 

Butftill I wanted two neceflary things. I had no 
cask to hold my liquor , except two rundlets almofl 
full of rum , a few bottles of an ordinary fize , and 
fome fquare cafe bottles ; neither had I a pot to boil 
any thing in , only a large kettle , unfit to make 
broth , or ftew a bit of meat : I wanted likewife at the 
beginning of this dry feafona tobacco-pipe ; but for 
this I afterwards found an expedient. 

I keptmyfelfemployed in planting my fecond row 
of fiakes. But remembering that when I travelled up 
to the brook, I had a mind to fee the whole ifland,I . 
now refumed my intention, and taking my dog, gun, 
hatchet , two bifcuit-cakes, a great bunch ofraifins , 
with a larger quantity of powder and shot than ufual, 

I began my journey. Having paffed the vale where 
my bower flood, I came within view of the fea lying 
to the wefl ; when , it being a clear day , I fairly de- 
feried land , extending from the W. to the S. W. a- 
bout io or 1 5 leagues , as I concluded ; but could not 
fay whether it was an ifland or a continent. Neither 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 71 

tould I tell what this place might be ; only thought 
it was part of America, and where I might have been 
in amiferable condition , had I landed. Again I confi- 
dered , that if this was the Spanish coaft , certainly, 
one time or other , I should fee l'ome ship pafs by ; 
and if it was not , then it muft be the Savage coaft , 
between the Spanish country and Brazil, which 
abounds with cannibals or man-eaters. 

As I proceeded forward , I found this fide of the 
ifland much more pleafant than mine j the fields fra-\ 
grant, adorned withfweet flowers and verdant grafs* 
together withfeveral very fine woods. There were 
parrots in plenty , which made me long for one to be 
my companion •, but it was with great difficulty I 
could knock one down with my flick; and I kept him 
at home fome years , before I could get him to call 
me by my name. 

I9 the low grounds I found various forts of hares 
and foxes as I took them to be , but much different 
from thofe in England. Several of thefe I killed, but 
never ate them •, neither indeed had 1 any occafion j 
For, abounding with goats, pigeons,turtle, and grapes, 
lcould defy Leader hall market to furnish me a bet-. 

ter table. In this journey I did not travel above two 
miles a day , becaufe I took feveral turns and wind- 
ings, to fee what difcoveriesl could make, returning 
Weary enough to the place where I defigned to reft all 
night, which was either in a tree , or to a place which 
, 1 furrounded with flakes, that no wild creature might 
fuddendly furprife me.When 1 came to the fea shore, 
1 was amazed to fee the fplendor of it. Its ftrand 


72 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

■was covered with shells of the moft beautiful fish, and 
conftantly abounding with innumerable turtles , and 
fowls of many kinds, which I was ignorant of, except 
thole called Penguins. I might have shot as many 
as I pleafed , but was fparing of my ammunition, ra- 
ther chufing to kill a she goat, which 1 did with 
much difficulty , on account of the flatnefs of the 
country. 

Now , though this journey produced the moft plea- 
ling fatisfa&ion , yet my habitation was fo much to 
my liking , that I did not repine at my being feated 
on the worft part of the ifland. I continued my jour- 
ney , travelling about twelve miles further towards 
the eaft, where I fet a great pile on the shore for amark 
concluding that my next journey should bring me to 
the other fide of the ifland , eaft from my caftle , and 
fo round till .1 came to my poll again. As I had a 
conftant view of the country , I thought I could not 
mifs my way, but fcarce had I travelled three miles, 
when Idefcended into a very large valley , fo fur- 
rounded with hills covered with wood , that I having 
no guide but by the fun, nor even then. unlefs I knew 
well the pofition of the fun at that time of the day; 
and, to add to my misfortune , the weather proving 
very hazy , I was obliged to return to my poft by the 
fea fide, and fo backwards the fame way I came. In 
this journey my dog furprifed a kid , and would have 
killed it, had I not prevented him. As I had often 
been thinking of getting a kid or two , and fo railing 
a breed of tame goats to fupply me after my ammu- 
nition was fpent , I took this opportunity of begin- 
ning : 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ff 

fling : and , having made a collar for this little crea- 
ture , ■with a firing made of rope-yarn , I brought it to 
my bower , and there inclofed and left him ; and, ha- 
ving fpent a month in this journey , at length I re- 
turned to my old habitation. 

Nobody can doubt of my fatisfaftion , when I re- 
turned to my little caftle , and repofed myfelf in my 
hammock. After my journey I refted myfelf a week, 
which time I employed in making a cage for my 
pretty Poll. I now began to confider of the poor kid 
I had left at the bower , and I immediately went to 
fetch ithome. When I came there , I found the young 
creature almoft ftarved; I gave itfome food , and tied 
it as before : but there was no occafion , for it follow- 
ed me like a dogv and, as I conftantly fed it, it became 
fo loving , gentle , and fond , that it commenced 
one of my domeftics > and would never leave me^ 

The rainy feafon of the autumnal equinox being 
now come, I kept the 30th of September in the moll 
folemn manner , as ufual , it being the third year of 
my abode in the ifiand. I fpent the whole day in ac- 
knowledging God’s mercies , in giving him thanks 
for making this folitary life as agreeable, and lefs fin- 
ful , than that of human fociety ; and for the com- 
munications of his grace to my foul , in fupporting, 
comforting , and encouraging me to depend upon his 
providence , and hope for his eternal prel'ence in the 
world to come. 

Indeed, I often did confider how much more happy 
I was, in this ftate of life, than in that accurfedman- 
»er of living I formerly ufed : andfometimes whei\ 

D 


Digitized by Google 


74 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
hunting , or viewing the country , the anguish of my 
foul would break out upon me , and my very heart 
would fink within me, to think of the woods , the 
mountains , the deferts I was in and how I was a 
prifoner locked up within the eternal, bars and bolts 
of the ocean , in an uninhabited wildernefs, without 
hopes , and without redemption. In this condition,! 
would often wring my hands, and weep like a child : 
And even fometimes in the middle of my work this 
fit would take me ; and then I would fit down and 
figh j looking on the ground for an hour or two toge- 
ther, till fuch time as my grief got vent in a flood of 
tears. 

One morning , as I was fadly employed in this 
manner , I opened my Bible , when immediately I 
fixed my eyes upon thefe words,/ will never leave 
thee , nor forfake thee ! Surely , thought I , thefe 
words are direfted to me •, or elfe why should they 
appear juft at a moment when I am bemoaning my 
forlorn condition ? and if God does not forfake me , 
what matters it , fince he can make me more happy 
in this ftate of life, than if I enjoyed the greateft 
fplendor in the world? But while I was going to re- 
turn God thanks for my prefent ftate , fomething 
feemed to shock my mind, as if it had thus faid s 
Unworthy wretch ! can you pretend to be thankful 
for a condition, from which you would pray to be 
delivered ! Here I ftopt ; — and though I could not 
fay , I thanked the divine Majefty for being there , 
yet I gave God thanks for placing to my view my 
former wicked courfe of life , and granting me a true 


— — 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 75 

knowledge of repentance. And whenever I opened 
or shut the Bible , I bleffed kind Providence , that di- 
refted my good friend in England to fend it among 
my goods without my order, and for aflifting me to 
fave it from the power of the raging ocean. 

And now beginning my third year , my feveral 
daily employments were thefe : Fir ft , My duty to 
Heaven, and diligently reading the holy Scriptures, 
which I did twice or thrice every day. Secondly , 
Seeking provifion with my gun , which commonly 
took me up , when it did not rain , three hours every 
morning. Thirdly , The ordering , curing , prefer- 
ving , and cooking what I had killed , or catched for 
my fupply , which took me up a great partof the day: 
for , in the middle of the day , the fun being in its 
height , it was fo hot , that I could not ftir out •, fo 
that I had only but four hours inthe evening to work 
in: and then the wantof tools, of affiftance, and skill, 
wafted a great deal of time to little purpofe. I was 
no lefs than two and forty days making a board fit 
for a long shelf, which two fawyers, with their tools 
and faw-pit , would have cut out of the fame tree in 
half a day. It was of a large tree , as my board was 
to be broad. I was three days in cutting it down, and 
two more in lopping off the boughs , and reducing it 
to /a piece of timber. This I hacked and hewed off 
each fide, till it became light tomove ; thenlturned 
it , made one fide of it fmooth and flat as a board 
from end to end, then turned it downward , cutting 
the other fide , till I brought the plank fo be about 
three inches thick , and fmooth on both Tides, A- 

D a 


Digitized by Google 



76 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ny body may judge my great labour and fatigue itf 
fuch a piece of work-, but this I went through with 
patience , as alfo many other things that my circum« 
ilances made neceffary for me to do. t 

The harveft months, November and December , 
were now at hand,in which lhad the pleafing profpefl 
of a very good crop. But here I met with anew mifr 
fortune -, for the goats and hares , having tailed of 
the fweetnefs of the blade, kept it fo short , that it 
had not ftrength to shoot up into a flalk. To pre- 
vent this , I inclofed it with a hedge , and by day shot 
fome of its devourers i and my dog, which I had 
tied to the field-gate , keeping barking all night , 
fo frightened thefe creatures , that I got entirely rid 
of them. 

But , no fooner did I get rid of thefe , than other 
enemies appeared , to wit, whole flocks of feveral 
forts of birds , who only waited till my back was 
turned , to ruin me. So much did this provoke me, 
that I let fly , and killed three of the malefactors ; 
and afterwards ferved them as they do notorious 
thieves in England, hung them up in chains as a 
terror to others. And, indeed, fo gopd an effeCt had 
this, that they not only forfook the corn, but all that 
part of the ifland, fo long as thefe criminals hung 
there. 

My corn having ripened apace , the latter end of 
December, which was my fecond harveft, I reaped it 
•with a fey the , made of one of my broad fwords. I 
had no fatigue in cutting down my firft crop , it was 
Xp flender . The ears I carried home ina basket, rub- 


ogle* 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 77 

ting it out with my hands , inftead of threshing it ; 
and when my harveft was over , found my half peck 
of feed produced near two bushels of rice, and two 
bushels and a half of barley. And now I plainly 
forefaw , that , by God’s goodnefs , I should be fur- 
nished with bread ; but yet I was concerned, becaufe 
I knew not how to grind or make meal of my corn, 
nor bread , neither knew how to bake it. I would 
not , however , tafte any of the crop , refolved to 
preferve it againft next feafon , and , in the mean 
while , ufe my belt endeavours to provide myfel£ 
with other food. 

• But where were my labours to end ? The want of 
a plough to turn up the earth , or shovel to dig it , I 
conqueredby making mea wooden fpade. The want 
Of a harrow I fupplied my felf,with dragging over the 
corn a great bough of a tree. "When it was growing^ 
I was forced to fence it; when ripe , to mow it* 
carry it home , thresh it , part it from the chaff , and 
fave it. And , after all, I wanted a mill to grind it, 
iieve to drefs it , yeft and fait to make it into bread, 
and an oven to bake it. This fet my brains on work 
tofindfome expedient for every oneofthefeneceffa-* 
ries againft the next harveft. 

* And now having more feed , my firft care was to 
prepare me more land. I pitched upon two large flat 
pieces of ground near my caftle,fot thatpurpofe, in 
which I fowed my feed , and fenced it with a good 
hedge. This took me up three months *, by which 
time the wet feafon coming on , and the rain keeping 
me within doors, I found feveraloccaftons to employ 

D3 


Digitized by Google 


78 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

myfelf ; and , -while at work, ufed to divert myfelf 
with talking to my parrot, learning him toknow and 
fpeak his own name Poll , the firft welcome word l 
ever heard fpoke in the ifland. I had been a long 
timeconrriving how to make earthen veffels, which 
I wanted extremely; and , when I confidered the 
lieat of the climate , I did not doubt but if I could 
find any fuch clay , I might botch up a pot , ftrong 
enough, when dried in the fun. to bear handling, anti 
to hold any thing that was dry , as corn , meal, and 
other things. 

To be short , the clay I found ; but it would occa* 
fion the moft feriousperfon tofmile, to fee what awk- 
ward ways I took , and what ugly mishapen things 
I made ; how many either fell out or cracked by the 
violent heat of the fun , and fell in pieces when they 
were removed; fo that I think it was two months 
lime before I could perfect any thing : and even then 
but two clumfy things , in imitation of earthen jars. 
Thefe,however , I very gently placed in wicker baf-» 
Jcets , made on purpofe for them , and between the 
pot and the baskets , fluffed it full of rice and barley 
ftraw : and thefe , I prefumed, would hold my dried 
corn , and perhaps the meal , when the corn was brui- 
fed. As for the fmaller things , I made them with 
better fuccefs ; fuch as little round pots , flat dishes ,• 
pitchers , and pipkins , the fun baking them very 
hard. ' ' 

Yetftill I wanted one thing abfolutely neceffary, 
and that was an earthen pot , not only to hold my li- 
quid , but alfo to bear the fire , which none of thefe 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 79 

Could do. It once happened , that as I -was putting 
out my fire , I found therein a broken piece of one of 
mv veffels burnt hard as a rock , and red as a tile. 
This made me think of burning fome pots ; andha- 
vingno notion of a kiln, or of glazing them with lead* 

1 fixed three large pipkins, and two or three pots in a 
pile one upon another. The fire I piled round the 
outfide , and dry wood on the top, till I faw the pots 
in theinfide red-hot, and found that they did not 
crack at all-, and when Iperceived them perfectly red* 
I let one of them ftand in the fire about five or fix 
hours, till the clay melted by the extremity of the 
heat, and would have run to glafs , had I f affered it ; 
upon which I flacked my fire by degrees , till thered- 
nefs abated •, and watching them till the morning, I 
found I had three very good pipkins, and two earthen 
pots , as well burnt and fit for my turn as I could 
defire. 

No joy cou Id be greater than mine at this difcove- 
ry. For after this , I may fay , I wanted for no fort 
of earthen ware. I filled one of my pipkins with wa- 
ter to boil me fome meat, which it did admirably well,' 
and with a piece of kid I made me fome good broth , 
as well as my circumftances would afford me at that 
time. 

The next concern I had was to getme a ftone-mor-' 
tar to beat fome corn in , inftead of a mill to grind it.' 
Here indeed I was at a great lofs , as not being fit for' 
a ftone cutter; and many dayslfpent to find out a 
great ftone big enough to cut hollow and make fit for' 
a mortar , and ftrong enough to bear, the weight of a- 

D 4 


Digitized by Google 



So LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

% » 

peftle , that would break the corn without filling it 
with fand. But all the ftones of the ifiand being of 
a mouldering nature , rendered my fearch fruitlefs ; 
and then I refolved to lookout a great block of hard 
Wood; which having foon found, I formedit with my 
axe and hammer , and then with infinite labour made 
a hollow in it, juft as the Indians of Brazil make their 
canoes. When I had finished this ,1 made a great 
peftle of iron wood, and then laid them upagainft my 
fucceeding harveft. 

■ My next bufinefs was to make me a fieve , to fift 
my meal , and part it from the bran and husk. Having 
no fine thin canvafs to fearch the meal through, I- 
could not tell what to do. What linen I had was 
reduced to rags : I had goats hair enough , but nei- 
ther tools to work it, nor did I know how to fpin it. 
At length I remembered I had fome neckcloths o£ 
callicoe or muflin of the failors, which I had brought 
out of the ship , and with thefe I made three fmall 
fieves, proper enough for the work. 

I come now to confider the baking part. The 
■want of an oven I fupplied by making fome earthen 
pans very broad , but not deep. When I had a mind 
to bake, I made a great fire upon my hearth , the tiles 
of which I had made myfelf ; and when the wood was - 
burnt into live-coals , I fpread them over it, till it be* 
came very hot; thenfweeping them away, I fet down 
my loaves, and whelming down the earthen pots upon 
them , drew the ashes and coals all around the outfide 
of the pots to continue the heat ; and in this manner 
1 baked my barley-loaves , as well as if I had been a 



Digitized by GoogI 


1 


©F ROBINSON CRUSOE. 81 
complete paftry-cook,and alfo made of the rice feve- 
ral cakes and puddings. 

It is no wonder, that all thefe things took me up 
the bed part of a year, fince what intermediate time 
I had was bellowed in managing my new harveft 
and husbandry •, for in the proper feafon I reaped my 
corn, carried it home, and laid it up in the ear in my 
large baskets , till I had time to rub , inilead of 
threshing it. And now indeed my corn increafed fo 
much , that it produced me about twenty bushels of 
barley , and as much of rice , that I not only began 
to ufe it freely , but was thinking how to enlarge 
my barns , and refolved to fow as much at a time as 
would be fufficient for me for a whole year. 

All this while , the profpeft of land , which I had 
feen from the other lide of the ifland , ran in my 
^nind. I Hill meditated a deliverance from this pla- 
ce , though the fear of greater misfortunes might 
have deterred me from it. For allowing that I had 
attained that place , I run the hazard of being killed 
and eaten by the devouring cannibals ; and if they 
were not fo , yet I might be llain , as other Euro- 
peans had been , who fell into their hands. Not- 
withdanding all this, my thoughts ran continually 
upon that shore. I now wished for my boyXury, 
and the long boat , with the shoulder of mutton fail : 
• 1 went to the ship’s boat , that had been call a great 

way on the shore in the late dorm. She was remo- 
ved but a little ; but her bottom being turned up by 
the impetuofity and fury of the waves and wind , I 
fell to work with all the ftrength 1 had , and with 

D 5 


Digitized by Google 


Si LIFE AND ADVENTURES' 
levers and rollers I had cut from the wood, to turn' 
her , and repair the damages she had fuftained. This 
worktook me up three or four weeks , when finding 
my little ftrength all in vain , I fell to undermining 
it by digging away the fand , and fo to make it fall 
down, fetting pieces of wood to thruft and guide it 
in the fall. But after this was done , I was ftill un- 
able to ftir it up , or to get under it , much lefs to 
move it forwards towards the water , and fo I was 
forced to give it over. 

This difappointment, however, did not frighten me. 
I began to think , whether it was not poffible for me 
to make a canoe or Perigua , fuch as the Indians 
make of the trunk of a tree. But here I lay under par- 
ticular inconveniencies ; want of tools to make it , 
and want of hands to move it in the water when it 
was made. However , to work I went upon it* 
flopping all the enquiries I could make , with this 
very Ample anfwer I made to myfelf. Let’s firft make 
it , I'll warrant I’ll find fome way or other to get it 
along when it is done. 

I firft cut down a cedar-tree , which was five feet 
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the flump, 
and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of 
twenty two feet, after which it leffened for a fpace, 
and then parted into branches. Twenty days was I 
a hacking and hewing this tree at the bottom , four- 
teen more in cutting off the branches and limbs , and 
a whole month in shaping it like the bottom of a 
boat. As for the infide , I was three weeks with a 
mallet and chiffel , clearing it in fuch a manner , as 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


S3 

that it -was big enough to carry 26 men, much big- 
ger than any canoe I everfaw in my life, and confe- 
quently fufficient to tranfport me and all my effe&s 
to that wished-for shore I fo ardently defired. 

Nothing remained now , but, indeed , the greateft 
difficulty , to get it into the water, it lying about 100 
yards from it. To remedy the firft inconvenience , 
which was a rifmg hill between this boat and the 
creek , with' wonderful pains and labour I dug into 
the furface of the earth , and made a declivity. But 
when this was done , all the ftrength I had was as in- 
fufficient to move it , as it was when I attempted to 
move the boat. I then proceeded to meafurethe di? 
Ranee of ground , refolving to make a canal , in or- 
der to bring the water to the canoe , lince I could not 
bring the canoe to the water. But as this feemed 
to be impra&icable to myfelf alone , under the fpace 
of eleven or twelve years , it brought me into fome 
fort of confideration : fo that I concluded this alfo 
to be impoffible , and the attempt altogether vain. I 
now faw , and not before , what ftupidity it is to be- 
gin work before we reckon its cofts , or judge right- 
ly our own abilities to go through with its perform- 
ance. * ; ; 

In the height of this work , my fourth year expi- 
red , from the time I was call on this ifland. At 
this time I did not forget my anniverfary ; but kept 
it with rather greater devotion than before. For now 
my hopes being frullrated , I looked upon this world 
as a thing I had nothing to do with ■, and very well 
might I fay , as father Abraham faid untq. Dives , Be- 

D 6 


S4 LIFE AND ADVENTURES' 

tween me and thee there is a gulf fixed. And indeed 
I wasfeparated from its wickednefs too , having nei- 
ther the luft of the flesh , the luft of the eye , nor the 
pride of life ; I had nothing to covet, being lord, king, 
and emperor over the whole country I had in poffef- 
fion , without difpute , and without controul : I had 
loadings of corn , plenty of turtles , timber in abun- 
dance , and grapes above meafure. What was all the 
reft to me ? The money I had lay by me as defpica- 
bledrofs,whichI would freely have given for a grofs 
of tobacco pipes , or a hand-mill to grind my corn t 
In a word , the nature and experience of thefe things 
di&ated to me this juft reflexion, That the good 
things of this world are no farther good to us , than 
they are for our ufe;and that whatever we may heap 
up to give others , we can but enjoy as much as we 
ufe , and no more. . . 

Thefe thoughts rendered my mind more eafy than 
nfual. Every time I fat down to meat , I did it with 
thankfulnefs, admiring the providential hand of God, 
who , in this wildernefs, had fpread a table to me. And 
now I confidered what I enjoyed , rather than what 
I wanted •, compared my prefent condition with what 
1 at firft expected it should be ; how I should have 
4one , if I had got nothing out of the ship •, that I 
muft have perished before I had caught fish or tur-. 
ties ; or live4, had I found them , like a mere fa- 
vage , by eating them raw, and pulling them in pie- 
ces with my claws , like a beaft. I next compared 
my ftation to that which I deferved; how undutiful 
I had been to my parents j how deftitute of the fear 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. SJ 

Of God ; how void of every thing that was good ; 
and how ungrateful for thofe abundant mercies I had 
received from heaven , being fed, as it were , by a 
miracle, even as great as Elijah’s being fed byravensj 
and call on a place where there were no venemous 
creatures to poifon or devour me •, in short , making 
God’s tender mercies matter of great confolation , I 
relinquished all fadnefs , and gave way to content- 
ment. 

As long as my ink continued , which with water I 
made laft as long as I could , I ufed to minute down 
the days of the month , on which any remarkable 
thing happened. And, 

Firft , I obferved , that the fame day I forfook 
my parents and friends, and ran away to Hull, in order 
to go to fea, the fame day afterwards, in the next year 
I was taken and made a Have by the Sallee rovers : 

That the very day I efcaped out of the wreck of 
the ship in Yarmouth roads, a year after, on the fame 
day , I made my efcape from Sallee in my patron’s 
fishing-boat : 

And, that on the 30th of September , being the day 
of the year I was born on , on that day twenty fix 
after , was I miraculoufly faved , and caft ashore on 
this ifiand. 

• The next thing that wafted after my ink , was the 
bifeuit which I had brought out of, the ship: and 
though I allowed myfelf but one cake a day for above 
a twelvemonth , yet I was quite out of bread for near 
a year , before I got any corn of my own. 

In the next place , my clothes began to decay, and 


86 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

my linen had been gone long before. However , ^ 
had preferved about three dozen of the failors che- 
quered shirts , which proved a great refreshment tQ 
me , when the violent beams of the fun would not 
fuffer me to bear any of the leamens heavy watch- 
coats which made me turn tailor, and , after a mw 
ferable botching manner , convert them to jackets. 
To preferve my head , 1 made me a cap of a goat- 
skins , with the hair outwards to keep out the rain j 
which indeed ferved me fo well , that afterwards I 
made me a waiftcoat and open-kneed breeches of the 
fame : and then I contrived a fort of an umbrella , 
covering it with skins , which not only kept out the, 
heat of the fun, but the rain alfo. Thus being eafy 
and fettled in my mind, my chiefell happinefs was to 
converfe with God, in moll heavenly and comforta- 
ble ejaculations. 

For five years after this I cannot fay any extraordi- 
nary thing occurred to me. My chief employment 
was to cure my raifins, and plant my barley and rice, 
of both which I had a year’s provifion before-hand. 
But though I was difappointed in my firft canoe , I 
made it , at intermediate times , my bufinefs to make 
a fecond , of much inferior fize *, and it was two years 
before I finished it. But as I perceived it would no- 
wife anfwer my defign of failing to the other shore, 
my thoughts were confined to take a tour round the 
illand, to fee what further difcoveries I could make. 
To this intent , after having moved her to the water , 
and tried how she would fail , I fitted up alittle.maft, 
to my boat , and made a fail qf the ship’s fail that lay 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 87 

by me. I then made lockers or boxes at the end of 
it, to put in neceffaries , provifions, and ammunition, 
which would preferve them dry either from rain, or 
the fpray of the fea -, and in the infide of the boat , I 
cut me a long hollow place to lay my gun, and to keep 
it dry made a flag to hang over it. My umbrella I 
fixed in a ftep in the ftern, like a mail , to keep the 
heat of the fun off me. And now refolving to fee the 
circumference of my little kingdom, I victualled my 
ship for the voyage , putting in two dozen of my bar- 
ley-bread loaves, an earthen pot full of parched rice, a 
little bottle of rum , half a goat, powder and shot, and 
two watch-coats. It was the 6th of November, in 
the fixth year of my reign, or captivity ,thatl fet 
out on this voyage •, which was much longer than I 
expeCted, being obliged to put farther out, by reafon 
. of the rocks that lay a great way in the fea. And in- 
deed fo much did thefe rocks furprife me , that I was 
for putting back, fearing that if I ventured, farther, it 
would be out of my power to return : In this uncer- 
tainty I came to an anchor juft off shore ,,tcr which I 
waded with my gun on my shoulder, and then climb- 
ing up a hill, which overlooked that point, I faw the 
full extent of it , and fo I refolved to run all ha- 
zards. 

In this profpeCl from the hill , I perceived a violent 
current running to the eaft, coming very clofe to the 
point , which I the more carefully obferved, thinking 
it dangerous , and that when I came to it , I might be 
drove into the feaby its force, and not able to return 
to the ifland j and certainly it muft have been fo , ha<f 


. Digitized by Google 


Sfr LIFE AND ADVENTURES^ 

I not made this obfervation ; for on the other fide wasr 
the like current, with this difference, that it fet off at 
a greater diftance; and I perceived there was a ftrong 
eddy under the land; fo that my chief bufinefs was to 
work out ofthefirftcurrent,and conveniently get in- 
to the eddy. Two days I ftaid here , the wind blow- 
ing v ery briskly E. S. E. which being contrary to the 
current , leaves a great breach of the fea upon the 
point; fo it was neither fit for me to keep too near the 
shore, on account of the breach; nor ftand at too great 
a diftance, for fear of the ftreams. That night the 
wind abating , it grew fo calm , that I ventured out ; 
and here I may be a monument to all rash and igno- 
rant pilots: For I was no foonercome to the point, and 
not above the boat’s length from shore, but I was got 
into a deep water , with a current like a mill , which 
drove my boat along fo violently, that it was impofli- 
blefor me to keep her near the edge of it, but forced 
me more and more outfromtheeddyto the left of me; 
and all I could do with my padlers was ufelefs , there 
being no wind to help me. 

- Now I began to look upon myfelf as quite loft , 
fince , as the current ran on both fidesof the iftand , I 
was very certain they muft join again, and then I had 
no hopes but of perishing for want in the fea , aftef 
what provifion I had was fpent, or before, if a ftortn 
should happen to arife. 

Who can conceive the prefe nt anguish of my mind - 
at this calamity ? With longing eyes did I look up 
on my little kingdom , and thought the iftand the 
pleafanteft place in the uniyerfe. Happy , thrice hap- 


Digitized by Googlej 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. $9 

py defert , and faidl, shall I never fee thee more ? 
Wretched creature ! whither am I going ? Why did 
I murmur at my lonefome condition , when now I 
would give the whole world to be thither again } 
While I was thus complaining, I found myfelf to 
be driven about two leagues into the fea ; however, I 
laboured till my ftrength was far fpent , to keep my 
boat as far north as poflibly I could , to that fide of 
the current where the eddy lay on. About noon I 
perceived a little breeze of wind fpring up from thq| 
S. S. E. which overjoyed my heart ; and I was ftill 
more elated , when , in about half an hour , it blew a 
gentle fine gale. Had any thick weather fprung up, 
I had been loft another way : for having no compafs 
on board, I should never have found the way to fleer 
towards the ifland, if once it had difappeared ; but it 
proving the contrary, I fet up my maft again, fpread 
my fail, and flood away northward , as much as I 
could , to get rid of the current. And no fooner did 
the boat begin to ftretch away, but I perceived, by 
the dearnefs of the water , a change of the current 
was near ; for , where it was ftrong , the water was 
foul; and, where it was clear, the current abated. 
To the eaft I foon faw, about half a mile , a breach 
of the fea upon fome rocks , which caufed it again to 
feparate *, and as the main force of it drove away 
more fouthwardly , leaving the rocks to the north- 
eaft, fo the other came back by the repulfe of the 
rocks, making a sharp eddy, which returned backa- 
gain to the north-weft with a very fwift ftreara. 

They who have experienced what it is to be re- 


Digitized by Google 


90 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

prievedupon the ladder, or to befaved from thieves, 
juft going to take away their lives , or fuch as have 
been in the like calamities with my own, may guefs 
my prefent excefs of joy, how heartily I run my boat 
into the ftream of this eddy, and how joyfully I 
fpread my fail to the refreshing wind, {landing cheer- 
fully before it , with a fmart tide under foot. By the 
afliftance of this eddy , I was carried above a league 
home again , when , being in the wake of the ifland, 
betwixt the two currents , I found the water to be in 
a fort of a ftand. A bout four o’clock in the afternoon, 
I reached within a league of the ifland, andperceived 
the points of the rock , which caufed this difafter t 
ftretching out, as I obferved before, to the fouthward, 
■which , throwing off the current more fouthwardly, 
had occafioncd another eddy to the north. But ha- 
ving a fair brisk gale, I ftretched acrofs this eddy,and 
in an hour came within a mile of the shore , where I 
foon landed, to my unfpeakable comfort;and after an 
humble proftration,thankingGod for my deliverance, 
■with a refolution to lay all thoughts ofefcapingafide, 
I brought my boat fafe to a little cove , and laid me 
down to take a welcome repofe. When I awoke , I 
was confideringhowlmight get my boat homeland 
coafting along the shore, I came to a good bay, which 
ran up to a rivulet or brook, ■where , finding a fafe 
harbour , I ftowed her as fafe as if she had been in a 
dry dock made on purpofe for her. 

I now perceived myfelf not far from the place 
where before I had travelled on foot ; fo taking no-, 
thing with me, except my gun and umbrella , I began 


Digitized by Googl^. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 91 

Jtiy journey, and in the evening came to my bower , 
where I again laid me down to reft. I had not flept 
long before 1 was awakened in great furprife , by a 
ftrange voice that called me feveral times , Robin , 
Robin , Robin Crufoe , poor Robin ! Where are you, Ro- 
bin Crufoe? where are you ? where have you been ? 

So faft was I afleep at firft , that I did not awake 
thoroughly : but half afleep and half awake , I 
thought I dreamed that fomebody fpoke to me. But , 
as the voice repeated Robinfon Crufoe feveral times , 
being terribly affrighted , I ftarted up , in the utmoft 
confufion •, and, no fooner were my eyes fully open, 
but I beheld my pretty Poll fitting on the top of the 
hedge , and foon knew that it was he that called me ; 
for juft in fuch bewailing language I ufed to talk and 
teach him;which be fo exa&ly leamed.that he would 
fit upon my finger, and lay his bill clofe to my face, 
and cry , Poor Robinfon Crufoe , where are you ? where 
have you been ? how come you here ? and fuch like 
prattle I had conftantly taught him. But even though 
I knew it to be the parrot , it was a great while be- 
fore I could adjuft myfelf ; being amazed how the 
creature got thither, and that he should fix about that 
place , and no where elfe. But now , being afiured it 
could be no other than my honeft Poll, my wonder 
ceafed; and reaching out my hand, and calling fa- 
miliarly Poll , the creature came to me, and perched 
upon my thumb , as he was wont , conftantly prating 
to me , with Poor Robinfon Crufoe , and how did I come 
here , and where had I been ? as if the bird was overjoyed 
to fee me ; and fo I took him home along with me. 


Digitized by Google 


LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

I was now pretty well cured of my rambling to 
fea •, yet I could wish my boat , which had coft me fo 
much trouble and pains , on this lide the ifland once 
jnore, but which indeed was imprafticable. I there- 
fore began to lead a very retired life , living near a 
twelvemonth, in a very contented manner , wanting 
for nothing except converfation. As to mechanic 
labours, which my neceflities obliged me to, I fancied 
I could , upon occafion , make a tolerable carpenter , 
were the poor tools I had to work withal but good. 
Befides, as I improved in my earthen ware , 1 contri-r 
Ved to make them with a wheel, which I found much 
eaiier and better , making my work shapely , which 
before was rude and ugly. But , I think I was neve* 
fo elevated with my own performance or projett, as 
for being able to make a tobacco-pipe, which, though 
it proved an awkward clumfy thing , yet it was very 
found , and carried the fmoke perfectly well , to my 
great fatisfa&ion. . 

1 alfo improved my wicker ware .making me abun- 
dance of neceffary baskets , which , though not very 
handfome , were very handy and convenient to fetch 
things home in , as alfo for holding my (lores, barley* 
rice , and other provifions. 

My powder beginning to fail , made me examine 
after what manner I should kill the goats or birds to 
live on, after it was all gone. Upon which I con- 
trived many ways to enfnare the goats , and lee if I 
could catch them alive , particularly a she goat with 
young. At laft I had my delire for, making pit-falls 
and traps , baited with barley and rice , I found 4 one, 


Digitized by Googli 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9 $ 

morning , in one of them , an old he goat , and in the 
other three kids , one male , the other two females. 

' So boifterous was the old one , that I could not 
bring him away. But I forgot the old proverb , that 
hunger will tame a lion : for, had I kept him three or 
four days without vi&uals, and then given him fome 
water, with a little corn, he would have been as tame 
as a young kid. The other creatures I bound with 
firings together ; but I had great difficulty before I 
could bring them to my habitation. It was fome 
time before they would feed ; but, throwing them 
-fweet corn , it fo much tempted them , that they be- 
gan to be tamer. From hence I concluded , that if I 
defigned to furnish myfelf with goats flesh, when my 
ammunition was fpent, the tamely breeding them up, 
like a flock of sheep , about my fettlement , was the 
only method I could take. I concluded alfo I muft 
feparate the wild from the tame , or elfe they would 
always run wild as they grew up; and the beft way 
for this , was to have fome inclofed piece of ground, 
well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep them 
fo effectually , thatthofe within might not breakout 
or thofe without break in. Such an undertaking 
was very great for one pair of hands;butas there was 
an abfolute neceflity for doing it, my firft care was to 
find a convenient piece of ground where there was 
likely to be herbage for them to eat, water to drink, 
and cover to keep them from the fun. 

; Here again I gave another inftance of my igno- 
rance and inexperience, pitching upon apiece of mea- 
4ow land fo large , that had I inclofed it , the hedge 


Digitized by Google 


94 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

or pale muft have been at leaft two miles about. In- 
deed , had it been ten miles , I had time enough to do 
it in •, but then I did not confider that my goats would 
be as wild in fo much compafs , as if they had had 
the whole ifland, and confequently as difficult forme 
to catch them. This thought came into my head , af- 
ter I had carried it on, I believe, about fifty yards : 
I therefore altered my fcheme,and refolvedto inclofe 
a piece of ground about 150 yards in length , and 
100 in breadth, fufficient enough for as many as would 
maintain me, till fuch time as my flock increafed, and 
then I could add more ground. I now vigoroufly pro- 
fecuted my work, and it took me about three months 
in hedging the firft piece ; in which time I tethered 
the three kids in the beft part of it , feeding them as 
near me as poffible , to make them familiar : and in- 
deed I very often would carry fome ears of barley, or 
a handful of rice, and feed them out of my hand ; by 
which they grew fo tame,that when my inclofurewas 
finished, a(fd I had let them loofe , they would run 
after me for a handful of corn. This indeed anfwer- 
ed my end ; and in a year and a half’s time I had a 
flock of about twelve goats, kids and all-, and in two 
years after, they amounted to forty-three,befideswhat 
I had taken and killed for my fuflenance. After which 
I inclofed five feveral pieces of ground to feed them 
in, with pens to drive them into , that I might take 
them as I had occafion. ; 

In this projeft I like wife found additional bleffings; 
for I not only had plenty of goats fl esh, but milk too, 
which, in my beginning , I did not fo much as think 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9 f 

of. And , indeed , though I never had milked a cow , 
much lefs a goat, or feen butter or cheefe made, yet, 
after fome effays and mifcarriages , I made me both , 
and never afterwards wanted. 

How mercifully can the omnipotent Power comfort 
his creatures , even in the midft of their greateft cala- 
mities ? How can he fweeten the bittereft providen- 
ces , and give us reafon to magnify him in dungeons 
and prifons? "What a bounteous table was here fpread 
in a wildernefs for me , where I expetted nothing at 
firft but to perish for hunger ? 

Certainly a Stoic would have fmiled to have feen 
me at dinner. There fat my royal majefty , an abfo- 
lute prince and ruler of my kingdom, attended by my 
dutiful fubjetts •, whom , if I pleafed , I could either 
hang, draw, quarter, give them liberty , or take it 
away. When I dined, I feemedaking , eating alone, 
none daring to prefume to do fo till I had done. Poll , 
as if he had been my principal court favourite , was 
the only perfon permitted to talk with me. My old, 
but faithful dog , now grown exceeding crazy , and 
who had found no fpecies to multiply his kind upon, 
continually fat on my right hand •, while my two cats 
fat on each fide of the table , expetting a bit from my 
hand, as a principal mark of my royal favour. Thefe 
were not the cats I had brought from the ship ; they 
had been dead long before, and interred near my ha- 
bitation by mine own hand. But one of them , as I 
fuppofe, generating with a wild cat, a couple of their 
young I had made tame *, the reft run wild into the 
woods , and in time grew fo impudent as to return 


Digitized by Google 


96 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and plunder me of my ftores , till fuch time as l 
shot a great many, and the reft left me without trou- 
bling me any more. In this plentiful manner did I 
live , wanting for nothing but converfation. One 
thing indeed concerned me , the want of my boat ; 
1 knew not which way to get her round the ifland-. 
One time I refolved to go along the shore by land to 
her ; but had any one in England met fuch a figure, 
it would either have affrighted them, or made them 
burft into laughter ■, nay , I could not but fmile my- 
felf at my habit, which I think in this place will be 
very proper to defcribe. 

The cap I wore upon my head was great, high, and 
shapelefs , made of a goats-skin, with a flap or pent- 
houfe hanging down behind , not only to keep the 
fun from me , but to shoot the rain off from running 
into my neck, nothing being more pernicious than 
the rain falling upon the flesh in thefe climates. I 
had a short jacket of goats-skin , whofe hair run 
down fuch a length on either fide , that it reached 
down to the calves of my legs. As for shoes and 
ftockings , I had none , but made a refemblance of 
fomething,I know not what to call them ; they were 
made like buskins, and laced on the fides like fpatter- 
dashes, barbaroufly shaped like the reft of my habit. 

I had a broad belt of goats-skin dried , girt round me 
with a couple of thongs , inftead of buckles ; on each 
of which , to fupply the deficiency of fword and dag- 
ger , hung my hatchet and faw. I had another belt , 

* * not fo broad, yet fattened in the fame manner, which 

hung over my shoulder , and at the end of it > under 

my 


Dig 


4j 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 97 

my left arm , hung two pouches , made alfo of goats- 
skin , to hold my powder and shot. My basket I car- 
ried on my back, and my gun on my shoulder ; and 
over my head a great clumfy ugly goat-skin umbrella 
which , however , next to my gun , was the moft ne- 
ceffary thing about me. As for my face , the colour 
was not fofwarthy as the Mulattoes, or as might have 
been expetted from one who took fo little care of it, 
in a climate within nine or ten degrees of the Equinox. 
At one time my beard grew fo long that it hung down 
above a quarter of a yard •, but as I had both razors 
and fciffars in {lore , I cut it all off, and fuffered none 
to grow, except a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, 
the like of which I had feen worn by fome Turks at 
Sallee, not long enough indeed to hang a hat upon, 
but of fuch a monftrous fize , as would have amazed 
any in England to have feen. 

But all this was of no confequence here, there be-* 
ing none to obferve my behaviour or habit. And fo , 
without fear and without controul,I proceeded on my 
journey , the profecution of which took me up five 
or fix days. I firft travelled along the fea shore , di- 
reftly to the place where I firftbrought my boat to an 
anchor , to get upon the rocks •, but having now no 
boat to take care of, I went over land a nearer way to 
the fame height that I was before upon •, when look- 
ing forward to the point of the rock, which lay out , 
and which I was forced to double with my boat, I was 
amazed to fee the fea fo fmooth and quiet , there be- 
ing no ripling motion , nor current , any more than 
in other places. This made me ponder fome time to 

E 


i 


Digitizec 


*- 


I by Google 


V 


$5 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

guefs the reafon of it , when at laft I was convinced i, 
that the ebb fetting from the weft and joining with 
the current of water from fomc great river on shore 
null be the occafion of thefe rapid ftreams ; and that, 
confequently , as the winds blew more weftwardly , 
or more Southwardly, fo the current came the nearer, 
or went the farther from shore. To fatisfy my curiofi- 
ty , 1 waited there till evening , when the time of ebb 
being made, I plainly perceived from the rock the cur- 
rent again as before, with this difference, that it ran 
farther off, near half a league from the shore; where- 
as, in my expedition, it fet clofe upon it, furioufly 
hurrying me and my canoe along with it , which at a- 
nother time it would not have done. And now I 
was convinced , that , by obferving the ebbing and 
flowing of the tide , I might eafily bring my boat 
round the iftand again. But when I began to think 
of putting it in pra&ice , the remembrance of the late 
danger ftruck me with fuch horror , that I changed 
my resolution, and formed another , which was more 
fafe, though more laborious; and this was to make an- 
other canoe, and fohave one for one fide of the iftand, 
and one for the other. 

I had now two plantations in the iftand*, the firft 
my little fortification, fort, or caftle, with many large 
and Spacious improvements : for by this time I had 
enlarged the cave behindme with feverallittle caves, 
one within another , to hold my baskets , corn , and 
ftraw. The piles with which I made my wall were 
grown fo lofty and great as obfcured my habitation. 
And near this commodious and pleafant fettlement , 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. -99 

lay my well cultivated and improved corn ifields , 
which kindly yielded me its fruit in the proper fea- ✓ 
fon. My fecond plantation was that near my coun- 
try-feat, or little bower, wheremy grapes flourished, 
and where, having plantedmany flakes , I made inclo- 
fures for my goats, fo ftrongly fortified by labour and 
time, that it was much ftronger than a wall , and con- 
fequently impoflible for them to break through. As 
for my bower itfelfil kept it conftantly in repair, and 
cut the trees in fuch a manner , as made them grow 
thick and wild , and form a moft delightful shade* In 
the centre of this flood my tent , thus ere&ed. I had 
driven four piles in the ground , fpreading over it a 
piece of the ship’s fail •, beneath which I made me a 
fort of a couch with the skins of the creatures I had 
flain,and other things •, and having laid thereon one of 
the failor’s blankets, which I had fa ved from the wreck 
of the ship , and covering myfelf with a great watch- 
coat , I took up this place for my country-retreat. 

Very frequently from this fettlement did I ufe to 
vifit my boat , and kept her in very good order. And 
fometimes I would venture in her a call or two from 
shore , but no farther , left either a ftrong current , a 
fuddenflormy wind, or lome unlucky accident, should 
hurry me from the ifland as before. But now l en- 
treat your attention , whilft I proceed to inform you 
ofa new,but moft furprifing feene of life which here 
befel me. 

You may eafily fuppofe , that , after having been 
here fo long , nothing could be more amazing titan 
to fee a human creature. One day it happened , that, 

El 


Digitized by Google 


r 


too LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

going'to my boat, I faw the print of a man’s nakel 
foot on the shore , very evident on the fand , as the 
toes , heels , and every part of it. Had I feen an ap- 
parition in the moft frightful shape, I could not have 
been more confounded. My willing ears gave the 
ftri&eft attention. I caft my eyes around , but could 
fatisfy neither the one nor the other. I proceeded al- 
ternately to every part of the shore , but with equal 
effeft; neither could I fee any other mark, though the 
fand about it.was as fufceptible to take impreffion, as 
thatwhich was fo plainly Ramped. Thus, ftruck with 
confufion and horror , I returned to my habitation, 
frightened at every bush and tree, taking every thing 
for men •, and poffefled with the wildeft ideas. That 
night my eyes never clofed. I formed nothing but the 
moft difmal imaginations , concluding it muft be the 
mark of the devil’s foot which I had feen. For other- 
wife how could any mortal come to this ifland ? 
Where was the ship that tranfported them ? and what 
ftgns of any other footfteps ? Though thefe feemed 
veryftrong reafons for fuch a fuppofition,yet(thought 
I ) why should the devil make the print of his foot to 
no purpofe , as I can fee, when he might have taken 
otherwaystohave terrified me?Why shouldhe leave 
his mark on the other fide of the ifland , and that too 
on the fand , where the furging waves of the ocean 
might foon have erafed the impreffion. Surely this 
a&ion is not confiftent with thefubtility of Satan.faid 
I to myfelf •, but rather muft be fome dangerous crea- 
ture, fome wild favage of the main land over againfi: 
me , that , venturing too far in the ocean , has been 


Digitized by Google 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 101 

driven here, either by the violent currents or contrary 
winds ; and not caring to ftay on this defolate ifland , 
has gone back to fea again. 

Happy indeed, thought I to myfelf,that none of the 
favages had feen me in that place : yet I was not al- 
together without fear, left , having found my boat , 
they should return in numbers and devour me , or at 
leaft carry away all my corn, and deftroy my flock of 
tame goats. In a word, all my religious hopes vanish- 
ed , as though I thought God could not now prote& 
me by his power , who had fo wonderfully preferved 
me fo long. 

"What various chains of providence are there in the 
life of man ? How changeable are our affe&ions , ac- 
cording to different circumftances ? We love to-day , 
what we hate to-morrow ; we shun one hour , what 
we feek next. This was evident in me in the mod 
confpicuous manner: for I , who before had fo much 
lamented my condition , in being banished from all 
humankind , was now even ready to e xpire , when I 
confidcred that a man had fethis foot on this defolate 
ifland. But, when I confidered my ftation of life, de- 
creed by the infinitely wife and good providence of 
God , that I ought not to difpute my Creator’s fove- 
reignty , who had an undoubted right to govern and 
difpofe of his creatures as he thinks convenient ; and 
that his juftice and mercy could either punish or deli- 
ver me : I fay, when I confidered all this, I comfort- 
ably found it my duty to truft fincerely in him , pray 
ardently to him, and humbly refign myfelf to his di- 
vine will, 

E3 


Digitized by Google 


102 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

One morning, lying on my bed, thcfe words of the 
facred writings came again into my mind , Call upon 
me in the day of trouble , and I will deliver thee , and 
thou shalt glorify me. 'Upon this fentence , riling 
more cheerfully from my bed , I offered up my pray- 
ers in the mod heavenly manner: and , when I had 
done, taking up my Bible to read, thefe words appear- 
ed firft in my light : Wait on the Lord , and be of good 
cheer , and he shall Jlrengthcn thy heart : Wait , I fay , 
on the Lord. Such divine comfort did this give me , 
as to remove all caufe of fadnefs upon that occalion. 

Thus , after a world of apprehenlions and fears, for 
three days and nights, I at laft ventured out of my 
caftle, and milked my goats, one of which was almoft 
fpoiled for want of it. I next ( though in great fear ) 
vilited my bower , and milked my flocks there alfo j 
when, growing bolder.I went down to the shore again, 
and meafuring the print of the foot to mine , to fee 
perhaps whether I myfelf had not occalioned that 
mark , I found it much fuperior in largenefs •, and fo 
returned home,now abfolutely convinced, that either 
fome men had been ashore , or that the illand mull be 
inhabited; and therefore that I might be furprifed be- 
fore I was aware. 

I now began to think of providing for my fecurity, 
and revolved in my mind many different fchemes for 
that purpofe. I firft propofed to cut down my inclo- 
fures , and turn my tame cattle wild into the woods , 
that the enemy might not find them, and frequent the 
illand in hopes of killing the fame. Secondly , I was 
for digging up my cornfields for the very famereafon. 




# 


Digitized by Google 

k 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 103 

And, laftly , I concluded to demolish my bower , left, 
feeing a place of human contrivance, they might come 
farther , and find out and attack me in my little caftle. 

Such notions did the fear of danger fuggeft to me; 
and I looked , I thought , like the unfortunate king 
Saul , when not only oppreffed by the Philifiines, but 
alfo forfaken by God himfelf. And, it is ftrange, that 
a little before, having entirely refigned myfelfto the 
will of God , I should now have little confidence in 
him , fearing thofe more who could kill this fading 
body , than he who could deftroy my immortal foul. 

Sleep was an utter ftranger to my eyes that night ; 
yet nature , fpent and tired , fubmitted to a filent re- 
pofe the next morning. And then , joining reafon 
with my fear , I coufidered , that this delightful and 
pleafant ifiand might not be fo entirely forfaken as I 
might think; but that the inhabitants from the o- 
ther shore might fail, either with defign , or from ne- 
ceflity , by crofs winds ; and , if the latter circum- 
ftance , I had reafon to believe they would depart the 
firft opportunity. However , my fear made me think 
of a place for retreat upon an attack. I now repent- 
ed that I had made my door to come out beyond my . 
fortification ; to remedy which , I refolved to make 
me afecond one : I fell to work, therefore, and drove 
betwixt that double row of trees , which I planted a- 
bout twelve years before, feveral ftrong piles, thick- 
ening it with pieces of timber and old cables , and 
ftrengthening the foot of it with earth which l 
dug out of my cave ; I alfo made me feven holes, 
wherein I planted my muskets like camion , fitting 
r' E4 


Digitized by Google 


104 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

them into frames refembling carriages. This being 
finished with indefatigable induftry , for a great way 
every where, I planted flicks of ofier like a wood , a- 
bout twenty thoufand of them , leaving a large fpace 
between them and my wall , that I might have room 
to fee an enemy,and that they might not be sheltered 
among the young trees , if they offered to approach 
the outer wall. And , indeed , fcarce two years had 
paffed over my head , when there appeared a lovely 
shady grove, and in fix years it became a thick wood 
perfe&ly impaffable. For my fafety I left no avenue 
to go in or out •, inflead of which I fet two ladders , 
one to a part of the rock which was low , and then 
broke in, leaving room to place another ladder upon 
that ; fo that when I took thofe down , it was impof- 
fible for any man to defcend without hurting himfelf; 
and if they had , they would flill be at the outfide of 
my outer wall. But while I took all thefe meafures 
of human prudence for my own prefervation , I was 
not altogether unmindful of other affairs. To pre- 
ferve my flock of tame goats , that the enemy should 
not take all at once , I looked out for the moll retired 
part of the ifland , which was the place where I had 
loft my felf before mentioned, and there finding a clear 
piece of land , containing three acres , furrounded 
with thick woods , I wrought fo hard , that, in lefs 
than a month’s time, I fenced it fo well round , that 
my flocks were very well fecured in it , and I put 
therein two he-goats and ten she-ones. 

All this labour was occafioned purely by fearful 
apprehenfions , on account of feeing the print of a 


Digitized by Googl^ 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 105 

man’s foot. And not contented yet with what I 
had done , I fearched for another place towards the 
weft point of the ifland , where I might alfo retain 
another flock. Then wandering on this errand more 
to the weft of the ifland than ever I had yet done , 
and cafting my eyes towards the fea , methought I 
perceived a boat at a great diftance *, but could not 
poflibly tell what it was for want of my perfpc&ive 
glafs. I confidered then it was no ftrange thing to fee 
the print of a man’s foot ; and , concluding them can- 
nibals, blefled God for my being caft on the otherfide 
of the ifland, where none of the favages, as I thought, 
ever came. But when I came down the hill to the 
shore, which was the S. W. point of the ifland , I was 
foon confirmed in my opinion nor can any one de- 
fcribe my horror and amazement , when I faw the 
ground fpread with fculls , hands, feet, and bones of 
human bodies ; and particularly , I perceived a fpace 
like a circle , in the midft of which had been a fire , 
about which Iconje&ured thefe wretches fat, and un- 
naturally facrificed and devoured their fellow crea- 
tures. 

The horror and loathfomenefs of this dreadful fpec- 
tacle , both confounded my fcnfes, and made me dif- 
chargc from my ftomach in an exceflive manner. I 
then returned towards my habitation; and, ;n my way 
thither, shedding floods of tears , and falling down on 
my bended knees , gave God thanks for making my 
nature contrary to thefe wretches, and delivering me 
fo long out of their hands. 

Though reafon and my long refidence here had af- 

Ej 


lo6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fured me , that thefe favages never came up to the 
thick woody parts of the country , and that I had no 
reafon to be apprehenfive of a difcovery ; y et fuchan 
abhorrence did I ftill retain, that, for two years after, 
I confined myfelf only to my three plantations I 
mean my caftle , country feat , and inclofure in the 
woods. And though , in procefs of time , my dread- 
ful apprehenfions began to wear away , yet my eyes 
were more vigilant for fear of being furprifed , and I 
was very cautious of firing my gun, lefi, being heard 
by thofe creatures.they should proceed to attack me. 
I refolved, however, manfully to lofe my life if they 
did , and went armed with three piftols ftuck in my 
girdle •, which , added to the defcription I have given 
of myfelf before , made me look with a very formi- 
dable appearance. 

Thus my circumfiances for fome time remained 
very calm and undifturbed ; and when I compared 
my condition to others , I found it far from being 
miferable. And , indeed , would all perfons compare 
their circumfiances , not with thofe above them, but 
with thofe innumerable unhappy obje&s beneath 
them , I am fure we should not hear thofe daily mur- 
murings and complainings that are in the world. 
For my part , I wanted but few things. Indeed , the 
terror which the favages had put me in , fpoiled 
fome inventions for my own conveniencies. One of 
my proje&s was to brew me fome beerja very whimfi- 
cal one indeed , when it is confidered , that I had nei- 
ther casks fufficient, nor could I make any to preferve 
it in i neither had I hops to make it keep , yeft to 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 107 

make it work , nor a copper or kettle to make it 
boil. Perhaps , indeed , after fome years , I might 
bring this to bear , as I had done other things. But 
now my inventions were placed another way ; and 
day and night I could think of nothing but how I 
might deftroy fome of thefe cannibals , when pro- 
ceeding to their bloody entertainments •, and fo fa- 
ving a vi&im from being facrificed, that he might af- 
ter become my fervant. Many were my contrivan- 
ces for this purpofe , and as many more objections 
occurred , after I hatched them. I once contri- 
ved to dig a hole under the place where they made 
their fire , and put therein five or fix pounds of gun- 
powder, which would confequently blow up allthofe 
that were near it ; but then I was loth to fpend fo 
much upon them , left it should not do that certain 
execution I could defire , and but only affright , and 
not kill them. Having laid this defign afide , I again 
propofed to myfelf to lie privately in ambush , in 
fome convenient place , with my three guns double 
loaded , and let fly at them in the midft of their 
dreadful ceremony •, and having killed two or three 
of them at every shot, fall upon the reft fuddenly with 
my three piftols, and not let one mother’s fon efcape. 
This imagination pleafed my fancy fo much , that I 
ufed to dream of it in the night time. To put my 
defign in execution , I was not long feeking for a 
place very convenient for my purpofe, where unfeen 
1 might behold every a&ion of the favages. Here I 
placed my two muskets, each of which was loaded 
with a brace of flugs , and four or five fmaller bul- 

E 6 


Digitized by Google 


10S LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

lets about the fize of piflol bullets ; the fowling- 
piece was charged with near a handful of the largeft 
fwan shot ; and in every piftol were about four bul- 
lets. And thus all things being prepared , no fooner 
•would the welcome light fpread over the element , 
but , like a giant refreshed with wine , as the fcripture 
has it, would I iffue forth from my caftle , and from 
a.lofty hill , three miles diftant , view if I could fee 
any invaders approach unlawfully to my kingdom. 
But having waited in vain two or three months , it 
not only grew very tirefome to me , but brought me 
into fome confideration , and made me examine my« 
felf , what right I had to kill thefe creatures in this 
manner. 

If ( argued I to myfelf ) this unnatural cuftom of 
theirs be a fin offenfive to heaven , it belongs to the 
divine Being , who alone has the vindi&ive power in 
his hands , to shower down his vengeance upon 
them. And perhaps he does fo , in making them be- 
come one another’s executioners. Or, if not, if God 
thinks thefe doings juft , according to the knowledge 
they conceive , what authority have I to pretend to 
thwart the decrees ofProvidence, which has permitted 
thefe adlions for fo many ages, perhaps from almoft the 
beginning of the creation ? They never offended me ; 
what right have I then to concern myfelf in their 
shedding one another’s blood ? And , indeed , I have 
fince known, they value no more to kill and devour a 
captive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox , or eat 
„ mutton. I thdn concluded, it neceffarily followed , 
that thefe people were no more murderers then Chri- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 109 

Rians, who many times put whole troops to the fword, 
after throwing down their arms. Again I confidered , 
that if I fell upon them , I should be as much in the 
wrong as the Spaniards , who had committed the 
greateft barbarities upon thefe people who never had 
offended them in their whole lives ; as if the kingdom 
of Spain was eminent for a race of men without com- 
mon companion to the miferable , a principal fign of 
the moft generous temper, Thefe confiderations 
made me paufe , and brought me to think I had taken 
wrong meafures in my refolution; I now argued with 
myfelf, that it was better for me never to attack, but 
to remain undifcovered as long as poffibly I could j 
that an oppofire conduft would certainly prove de- 
ftrudlive •, for, as it was fcarcely to be fuppofcd I could 
kill them all, I might either be overpowered by the 
remaining , or that fome efcaping , might bring thou- 
sands to my certain deftru&ion. And, indeed, religion 
took their parffo much asto convince me how contra- 
ry it was to my duty to be guilty of shedding human 
blood,innocent as to my particular , whatever they are 
to one another ; that I had nothing to do with it , but 
leave it to the God of all power and dominion , as I 
Said before, to do therein what feemed convenient to 
his heavenly wifdom. And , therefore, on my kneesl 
thanked the Almighty for delivering me from blood- 
guiltinefs, and begged his prote&ion that I might ne- 
ver fall into their hands. 

Thus giving over an attempt which I had rashly be- 
gun , I never afeended the hill on that occafion after- 
wards i I only removed my boat, which lay on the or 


- * *■*- 


Digitized by Google 


no LIFE AND ADVENTURES 


ther fide of the ifland , and every thing that belonged 
to her , towards the eaft , into a little cove, that there 
mightnotbethe leaftshadow ofdifcovery ofany boat 
near , or habitation upon the ifland. My caftle then 
became my cell, keeping always retired in it, except 
when I went out to milk my she-goats, and order my 
little flock in the wood , which was quite out of dan- 
ger •, for fure I was , that thefe favages never came 
here with expe&ations to find any thing , and confe- 
quently never wandered from the coaft •, however, as 
they might have feveral times been on shore, as well 
before as after my dreadful apprehenfions , 1 looked 
back with horror to think in what ftate I might have 
been, had I fuddenly met them flenderly armed , with 
one gun only loaded with fmall shot •, and how great 
would have been my amazement, if, inftead of feeing 
the print of one man’s foot, I had perceived fifteen or 
twenty favages, who,havingonce fet their eyes upon 
me , by the fwiftnefs of their feet , would have left 
me no poflibility of efcaping ? Thefe thoughts would 
fink my very foul, fo that I would fall into a deep me- 
lancholy, till fuch time as the confideration of my gra- 
titude to the divine Being moved it from my heart, 
I then fell into a contemplation of the fecret fprings 
of Providence ; and how wonderfully we are deliver- 
ed, when infenfible of it ; and when intricated in un- 
certain mazes or labyrinths of doubt or hefitation,what 
fecret hint dire <3s us in the right way, when we intend- 
ed to go out of it •, nay , perhaps , contrary to our bu- 
finefs,fenfe,or inclination. Upon which, I fixed with- 
in me this as a certain rule, never to difobey thofe fe* 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. m 

cret imprefllons of mind , to the a&ing or not aiding 
any thing that offered , for which I yet could aflign 
no reafon. But let it be how it will , the advantage 
of this conduct very eminently appeared in the latter 
part of my abode on this ifland ; lama ftranger in 
determining whence thefefecret intimations of Pro- 
vidence derive : yet methinks they are not only fome 
proof of the converfe of fpirits , but alfo of the fe- 
cret communications they are fuppofed to have with 
thofe that have not paffed through the gloomy vale 
of death. 

Thefe anxieties of mind , and the care of my pre- 
servation-, put a period to all future inventions and 
contrivances, either for accommodation or conveni- 
ence. I now cared not to . drive a nail , chop a 
flick, fire a gun , or make a fire, left either the noife 
should be heard , or the fmoke difcover me And on 
this account I ufed to burn my earthenware private- 
ly in a cave which I found in the wood , and which I 
made convenient for that purpofe ; the principal 
caufe that brought me here was to make charcoal , fo 
that I might bake and drefs my bread and meat with- 
out any danger. At that time a curious accident hap- 
pened me , which I shall now relate. 

"While 1 was cutting down fome wood for making 
my charcoal , I perceived a cavity behind a very 
thick branch of underwood. Curious to look into it, 
I attained its mouth , and perceived it fufficient for 
me to ftand upright in it. But when I had entered , 
and took a further view , two rolling shining eyes , 
like flaming ftars , feemed to dart themfelvcs at me j 


in LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

r 

fo that I made all the hafte out that I could , as not 
knowing whether it was the devil or a monfter that 
j had taken is refidence in that place. When I re- 
covered a little from my furprife , I called myfelf a 
thoufand fools , for being afraid to fee the devil one 
moment, who had now almoft lived twenty years in 
the mod retired folitude. And therefore refuming 
all the courage I had, 1 took up a flaming firebrand, and 
in I rushed again. 1 had not proceeded above three 
fteps , when I was more affrighted than before, for 
then I heard a very loud figh , like that of a human 
creature in the greateft agony , fucceeded with a bro- 
ken noife, refembling words half expreffed, and then 
a broken figh again. Stepping back , Lord ! ( thought 
I to myfelf) , where am I got ? Into what inchanted 
place have I plunged myfelf, fuch as are reported to 
contain miferable captives , till death puts an end to 
their forrow ? And , indeed , in fuch a great amaze- 
ment was I , that it ftruc^me into a cold fweat •, and 
had my hat been on my head , I believe my hair 
•would have moved it off. But again encouraging 
myfelf with the hopes of God’s protection , I pro- 
ceeded forward , and , by the light of my firebrand , 
perceived it to be a monftrous hc-goat , lying on the 
ground , gafping for life , and dying of mere old age. 
At firft I flirred him , thinking to drive him out , 
and the poor ancient creature ftrove to get upon his 
feet , but was not able •, fo I e’en let him lie Hill, to 

affright the favages should they venture into this cave. 

I now looked round me , and found the place but 
finall and shapelefs. At the farther fide of it 1 per- 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. nj 

fceived a fort of an entrance , yet fo low , as muft 
oblige me to creep on my hands and knees to it ; fo, 
having no candle , I iufpended my enterprife till the 
next day , and then I came provided with two large 
ones of my own making. 

Having crept upon my hands and feet through this 
ftrait, I found the roof rofe higher up , I think about 
twenty feet. But furely never mortal faw fuch a glo- 
rious fight before ! The roof and walls of this cave 
reflected a hundred thoufand lights to me from my 
two candles , as though they were indented with 
shining gold, precious ftones, or fparkling diamonds. 
And indeed it was the moft delightful cavity or grot- 
to of its kind that could be defired , though entirely 
dark. The floor was dry and level , and had a kind 
of gravel upon it; no naufeous venomous creatures 
to be feen there , neither any damp or wet about it, I 
could find no fault but in the entrance, and I began 
to think that even this might be very neceffary for 
my defence , and therefore refolved to make it my 
moft principal magazine. I brought hither two 
fowling-pieces and three muskets , leaving only five 
pieces at my caftle , planted in the nature of cannon. 
In a barrel of gun-powder , which I took up out of 
the fea , I brought away about fixty pounds of good 
powder , which were not damaged ; and thefe , with 
a great quantity of lead for bullets , I removed from 
my caftle to this retreat , now fortified both by art 
and nature. 

I fancied myfelf now like one of the giants of old , 
who were faid to live in caves and holes among the 




114 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

rocks , inacceflible to any but themfelves, or, at leafE, 
moft dangerous to attempt. And now I defpifed 
both the cunning and ftrength of the favages , either 
to find me .out or to hurt me. 

But I muff not forget the old goat, who caufed my 
late dreadful amazement. The poor creature gave 
lip the ghoft the day after my difeovery •, and it being 
very difficult to drag him out , I dug his grave, and 
honourably intombed him in the fame place where 
he departed, with as much ceremony as any "Welch- 
goat that has been interred about the high mountain 
Penmenmourc. 

I think I was now in the twenty-third year of my 
reign, and my thoughts much eafier than formerly , 
having contrived feveral pretty amufements and di- 
verfions to pafs away the time in a pleafant manner. 
By this time my pretty Poll had learned to fpeak 
English , and pronounce his words very articulately 
and plain •, fo that for many hours we ufed to chat 
together after a very familiar manner , and he lived 
with me no lefs than twenty-fix years. My dog , who 
was nineteeny ears old,fixteen of which he lived with 
me, diedfometime ago of mere old age. As for my 
cats , they multiplied fo faft , that I was forced to kill 
or drive them into the woods , except two or three, 
which became my particular favourites. Befides 
thefe, I continually kept two or three houfehold kids 
about me, whom I did learn to feed out of my hand , 
and two more parrots who could talk indifferently , 
and call Robinfon Crufoe , but not fo excellently as 
the firft, as not taking that pains with them. I had 


Digitized by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 115 

alfo feveral fea-fowls which I had wounded and cue 
their wings •, and growing tame , they ufed to breed 
among the low trees about my caftle-walls ; all which 
made my abode very agreeable. 

But what unforefeen events fuddenly deftroy the 
enjoyments of this uncertain ftate of life , when we 
leaft expett them ! It was now the month of Decem- 
ber , in the fouthern folftice , and particular time of 
my harveft , which required my attendance in the 
fields-, when going out pretty early one morning, be- 
fore it was day-light, there appeared to me, from the 
fea-shore , a flaming light , about two miles from me, 
at the eaft end of the ifland , where I had observed 
fome favages had been before , not on the other fide, 
but to my great affli&ion it was on my fide of the 
ifland. 

Struck with a terrible furprife , and my ufual ap- 
prehenfions, that the favages would perceive my im- 
provements , I returned direiflly to my caftle, pulled 
up the ladder after me, making all things look as wild 
and natural as poflibly I could. In the next place , I 
put myfelf in a pofture of defence , loading my muf- 
kets and piftols , and committing myfelf to God’s 
protection , I refolved to defend myfelf till my laft 
breath. Two hours after, impatient for intelligence, 
I fet my ladder up to the fide of the hill , where there 
was a flat place , and then pulling the ladder after me , 
afeended to the top , where laying myfelf on my bel- 
ly, with my perfpeftive glafs,Iperceived no lefs than 
nine naked favages, fitting round a fmallfire, eating , 
as I fuppofed , human flesh , with their two canoes 


Digitized by Google 


Its LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

haled on shore , waiting for the flood to carry them 
off again. You cannot eafily exprefs the confterna- 
tionl was in atthis fight, efpecially feeing themnear- 
me; but when I perceived their coming muft be al- 
ways with the current of the ebb , I became more ea- 
fy in my thoughts, being very fully convinced, that I 
might go abroad with fecurity all the time of flood , 
if they were not before landed. And , indeed , this 
proved juft as I imagined ; for no fooner did they all 
take boat and paddle away , but the tide made N. W. 
Before they went off, they danced, making ridiculous 
poftures and geftures , for above an hour T all ftark 
naked ; but whether men or women, or both , I could 
notperceive. WhenI fawthem gone, Itooktwoguns 
upon my shoulders , and placing a couple of piftols 
in my belt, with my great fword hanging by my fide * 
I went to the hill , where at firft I made a difeovery 
of thefe cannibals, and then faw there had been three 
canoes more of the favages on shore at that place , 
which , with the reft , were making over to the main 
land. 

But nothing could be more horrid to me , when go- 
ing to the place of iacrifice , the blood, the bones, and 
other mangled parts of human bodies appeared in my 
fight •, and fo fired was I with indignation , that I was 
fully refolved to be revenged on the firft that came 
there , though I loft my life in the execution. It 
then appeared to me, tha t the vifits which they make 
to this ifland are not very frequent , it being fifteen 
months before they came again : but ftill I was very 
uneafy , by reafon of the dilmal apprehenfions I had 


‘Digitized by Googlfc 1 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 117 

of their furprifing me unawares; nor dared I offer to 
fire a gun on that fide of the ifland where they ufed 
to appear , left, taking the alarm , the favages might 
return with many hundred canoes, and then God 
knows in what manner I should have made my end. 
Thus was I a year or more before I faw any of thefe 
devouring cannibals again. 

But to wave this , tl>e following accident , which 
.demands attention , for a while , eluded the force of 
my thoughts in revenging myfelf on thofe Heathens. 

On the 1 6th of May ( according to my wooden ca- 
lendar) the wind blew exceeding hard, accompanied 
with abundance of lightening and thunder all day , 
and fucceeded by a very ftormy night. The feeming 
anger of the heavens made me have recourfe to my 
Bible. Whilft I was ferioufly pondering upon it , I 
was fuddenly alarmed with the noife of a gun , which 
I conje&ured was fired upon the ocean. Such an 
unufual fufprife made me ftart up in a minute, when, 
with my ladder afcending the mountain as before , 
that very moment a flash of fire prefaged the report 
of another gun , which I prefently heard , and found 
it was from that part of the fea where the current 
drove me away. I could not but then think , that 
this muft be a ship in diftrefs , and that thefe were 
the melancholy fignals for a fpeedydeliverance.Great, 
indeed , was my forrow upon this occafion ; but my 
labours to aflift them muft have proved altogether 
vain and fruitlefs. How r ever, I brought together all 
the dry wood that was at hand, and making a pretty 
large pile , fet it on fire on the hill. I was certain 


Digitized by Google 


liS LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

*1 

they plainly perceived it, by their firing another gun 
as foon as it began to blaze , and after that feveral 
more from the fame quarter. All night long 1 kept 
up my fire ; and when the air cleared up , I perceived 
fomething a great way at fea , dire&ly E. but 
could not difiinguish what it was , even with my 
glafs , by reafon the weather was fo very foggy out 
at fea. However, keeping my eyes dire&ly fixed up- 
on it, and perceiving it not to ftir, I prefently conclu- 
ded it muft be a ship at anchor, and fo very hafty I 
was to be fatisfied , that , taking my gun , I went to 
the S. E. part of the ifland , to the fame rocks where 
I had been formerly drove away by the current •, in 
which time the weather being perfe&ly cleared up , 
to my great forrow , I perceived the wreck of a ship 
call away upon thofe hidden rocks I found when I 
was out with my boat ; and which , by making a 
kind of an eddy , were the occafion of my prefer- 
vation. 

Thus , what is one man’s fafety is another’s ruin ; 
for undoubtedly this ship had been driven on them in 
the night , the wind blowing ftrong at E. N, E. Had 
they perceived the ifland, as I now guefied they had 
not , certainly, inftead of having fired’their guns for 
help, they would rather have ventured in their boat, 
and faved themfelves that way. I then thought, that 
perhaps they had done fo, upon feeing my fire , and 
were caft away in the attempt ; for I perceived no 
boat in the ship. But then I again imagined , that , 
perhaps, they had another veffel in company, which, 
upon fignal, faved their lives , and took the boat up : 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ug 

or that the boat might be driven into the main ocean , 
where thefe poor creatures might be in the moft mife- 
rable condition. But as all thefe conjeGures were 
very uncertain, I could do no more than commiferate 
their diftrefs, and thank Godfor delivering me, in par- 
ticular , when fo many perished in the raging ocean. 

When I confidered ferioufly every thing concerning 
this wreck.and could perceive no room tofuppofe any 
of them faved, I cannot explain,by any pollible force 
of words, what longings my foul felt upon this fight , 
often breaking out in this manner : O that there had 
been but two or three , nay even one perfon faved , 
that we might have lived ^sgether, converfed with, 
and comforted one another ! And, fo much were my 
defires moved , that when I repeated thefe words , 
«Oh! that there had been but one! » my hands 
would fo clench together , and my fingers prefs the 
palms of my hands fo clofe , that , had any foft thing 
been between, it would have crushed it involuntarily 
while my teeth would ftrike together, and fet againfl 
each other fo ftrong, that it required fome time for me 
to part them. 

Till the laft year of my being on this ifland , I ne- 
ver knew whether or not any had been faved out of 
this ship. I had the afflidfion , fome time after , to fee 
the corpfe of a drowned boy come on shore , at the 
end of the ifland which was next the shipwreck; there 
was nothing on him but a feaman’s waiftcoat , a pair 
of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt ; 
but no particular mark to guefs what nation he was 
of. In his pocket were two pieces of eight, and a to- 


Digitized by Googl 


no LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

bacco pipe , the laft of which I preferred much more 
than I did the firft. And now the calmnefs of the fea 
tempted me to venture out in my boat to this wreck, 
not only to get fomething neceffary out of the ship , 
but, perhaps, fome living creature might be on board* 
whofe life I might preferve. This had fuch an influ- 
ence upon my mind , that immediately I went home* 
and prepared every thing neceffary for the voyage , 
carrying on board my boat pro vifions of all forts, with 
a good quantity of rum , fresh water, and a compafs : 
fo putting off, I paddled the canoe along the shore » 
till I came at laft to the north-eaft part of the ifland , 
from whence 1 was to l^inch into the ocean ; but 
here the currents ran fo violently , and appeared fo 
terrible , that my heart began to fail me ; forefeeing , 
that if I was driven into any of thefe currents, I might 
be carried not only out of the reach or fight of the 
ifland , but even inevitably loft in the boiling furges 
of the ocean. 

So oppreffed was I at thefe troubles , that I gave 
over my enterprife , failing to a little creek on the 
shore, where , ftepping out , I fat me down on a rifing 
hill , very penfivc and thoughtful. I then perceived 
that the tide was turned , and the flood came on % 
which made it impra&icable for me to go out for fo 
many hours. To be more certain how the fets of 
the tides or currents lay when the flood came in , I 
afcended a higher piece of ground , which overlook- 
ed the fea both ways i and here I found , that as the 
current of the ebb fet out clofe by the fouth point of 
the ifland , fo the current of the flood fet in clofe by 




OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. tit 

the shore of the north fide ; and all that I had to 
do , was to keep to the north of the ifiand in my re- 
turn. 

That night I repofed myfelf in my canoe covered 
with my watch-coat infiead of a blanket , the heavens 
being my teller. I fet out with the firlt of the tide 
full north, till I felt the benefit of the current, which 
carried me at a great rate eaftward,yet hot with fuch 
impetuofity as before, as to take from me all govern- 
ment of my canoe ; fo that in two hours time I came 
up to the wreck, which appeared to me a moll me- 
lancholy fight. It feemed to be a Spanish veflel by 
its building, (luck fall between two rocks-, her ftern 
and quarter beaten to pieces by the fea-,her mainmaft 
and foremaft were brought off by the board that is, 
Broken short off. As I approached nearer , I percei-* 
-ved a dog on board, who , feeing me coming, yelped 
and cried ; and no fooner did I call him , but the poor 
creature jumped into the lea , out of which 1 took 
him up , almolt famished with hunger and thirft; fo 
-that when I gave him a cake of bread , no ravenous 
wolf could devour it more greedily : and he drank to 
that degree of fresh water, that he would have burll 
himfelf, had I fuffered him. . 

■ The full fight I met with in the ship , were two 
men drowned in the cook-room or forecaft’e. inclo- 
fed in one another’s arms ; hence I very probably 
fuppofed , that when the vcffel firuck in the llorm , 
fo high and inceffantly did the waters br :akinand 
over her , that the men , not being able to bear it t 
were ftrangled by the confiant rushing in of the 


W. LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

waves. There were feveral casks of liquor , whether 
wine or brandy I could not be pofitive, which lay in 
the lower hold , as were plainly perceptible by the 
ebbing out of the water, yet were too large for me to 
pretend to meddle with: likewife,I perceivedfeveral 
cherts ^ which I fuppofed to belong to the feamen , 
two of which I got into my boat , without exami- 
ning what was in them. Had the ftern of the ship 
been fixed, and the fore part broken off, I should 
have made a very profperous voyage ;fince , by what 
I after found in thefe two cherts , I could not other- 
wife conclude, but that the ship muft have abundance 
of wealth on board; nay, if 1 muft guefs by the courfe 
she fleered, she muft have been bound from the Bue- 
nos Ayres , or the Rio de la Plata , in the fouthern 
part of America , beyond the Brazils , to the Havan- 
nah, in the gulph of Mexico,and fo perhaps to Spain. 
What became of the reft of her failors.I could not cer- 
tainly tell; and all her riches fignified nothing at that 
time to any body. 

Searching farther , I found a cask , containing a- 
bout twenty gallons , full of liquor , which , with 
fome labour , I got into my boat ; in a cabin were 
feveral muskets , which 1 let remain there, but took 
away with me a great powder horn, with about four 
pounds of powder in it. I took alfoa fire shovel 
and tongs , two brafs kettles, a copper pot to make 
chocolate , and a grid-iron ; all which were ex- 
tremely neceffary to me, efpedally the fire shovel and 
tongs. And fo with this cargo , accompanied with 
my dog , I came away, the tideYerving for that pur- 


'H 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. li% 

pofe •, and the fame evening , about an hour within 
night, I attained the iftand , after the greateft toil an4 
fatigue imaginable. 

That night I repofed my wearied limbs in tha 
boat , refolving the next morning to harbour what I 
had gotten in my new found fubterraneous grotto ( 
and not carrying my cargo home to my ancient ca- 
ille Having refreshed myfelf , and got all my ef- 
fects on shore, I next proceeded to examine the par- 
ticulars ; and fo tapping the cask , I found the liquor 
to be a kind of a rum , but not like what we had at 
the Brazils , nor indeed near fo good. At the open- 
ing of the cheft , feveral things appeared very ufefuf 
to me •, for inftance , I found in one a very fine cafe 
of bottles , containing the fineft and beft forts of cor* 
dial waters ; each bottle held about three pints , cu- 
rioufly tipt with filver. I found alfo two pots full 
of the choiceft fweetmeats, and two more which the 
water had utterly fpoiled. There were likewife fe- 
veral good shirts , exceeding welcome to me, and a- 
bout one dozen and a half of white linen hanker- 
chiefs and coloured neckcloths , the former of which 
were abfolutely neceffary forwipingmy facein a hot 
day *, and , in the till , I found three bags of pieces of 
eight , about eleven hundred in all, in one of which^ 
decently wrapt up in a piece of paper , were fix dou*- 
bloons of gold , and foirte fmall bars and wedges of 
-the fame metal , which I believe might weigh near a 
pound. In the other cheft , which I gueffed to belong 
to the gunner’s mate, by the mean circumftances that 
attended it ,1 only found fome clothes of very little 

F % 


Digitized by Google 


H4 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

value, except about two pounds of fine glazed powder* 
in three flasks, kept , as I believe, for charging their 
fowling-pieces on any occafion;fo that, on the whole, 

I had no great advantage by this voyage. The^ mo- 
ney was indeed as mere dirt to me, ufelefs and un- 
profitable, all which I would have freelyparted with 
for two or three English pair of shoes and ftockings, 
things that for many years I had not worn , except 
lately thofe which 1 had taken off the feet of thofe un- 
fortunate men I found drowned in the wreck, yet not 
fogood as English shoes.either for eafe or fervice. I 
alfo found in the Teaman’s chefi about fifty pieces of 
eight in rials , but no gold ; fo concluded that what I 
took from the firft belonged to an officer , the latter 
appearing to have a much inferior perfon for its own- 
er. However , as defpicable as the money Teemed, I 
likewiTe lugged it to my cave, laying it up Tecurely, 
as I did the reft of my cargo; and after I had done 
all this , I returned back to my boat , rowing or pad- 
dling her along till I came to my old harbour, where 
I carefully laid her up , and fo made the beft of my 
way to my caftle. "When I arrived there, every thing 
feemedfafe and quiet ; fo that now my only bufinefs 
was to repofe myfelf after my wonted manner, and 
take care of my domeftic affairs. But though I might 
have lived very eafy,as wanting for nothing abfolute- 
ly needful ; yet ftill I was more vigilant than ufual 
upon account of the favages , never going much a* 
broad;or, if I did, it was to the eaft part of the ifland, 
where I waswell allured that the favages never came, 
and where Imight not be troubled to carry that heavy 




OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. iaj 

load ofweapons for my defence,as 1 was obliged to 
do if I went the other way. > 

_ Two years did I live in this anxious condition , in 
all which time, contrary to my former refolutions,my 
head was filled with nothing but projects and defigns, 
how I might efcapefromthisifland,andfomuchwere 
my wandering thoughts bent on a rambling difpofi- 
tion , that had I had the fame boat that 1 went from 
Sallee in , I should have ventured once more to the 
uncertainty of the raging ocean. * 

t I cannot however butconfidermyfelfasoneofthe 
unhappy perfons, who makethemfelves wretchedfcy 
their diffatisfa&ion with the Rations which God has 
placed them in ; for , not to take a review of my pri- 
mitive condition , and my father's excellent advice % 
(the going contrary to which was , as I may fay, my 
original fin) , the following miftakes of the fame na- 
ture certainly had been the means of my prefent un- 
happy Ration. What bufinefs had I to leave a fettled 
fortune, and well-ftocked plantation, improving and 
increafing, where , by this time , I might have been 
worth a hundred thoufand moidores , to turn fuper - 
cargo to Guinea , to fetch negroes , when time and 
patience would have fo much enlarged my flock at 
home , as to be able to employ thofe whofe more im- 
mediate bufinefs it was to fetch them home, even to 
my own door ? i i 

• But as this is commonly the fate of young heads , 
fo a ferious refle&ion upon the folly of it ordinarily 
attends the exercife of future years , when the dear- 
Jjought experience of time teaches us repentance,- 

*3 


Digitized by Google 


**6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Thus was it with me *, but notwithttanding , the 
thoughts of my deliverance ran fo ftrongly in my 
mind , that it feemed to check all the dittates of rea- 
fon and philofophy. And now to usher in my kind 
leader with great pleafure to the remaining part of 
my relation , I flatter myfelf it will not be taken a- 
mifs , to give him an account of my firft conceptions 
of the manner of efcaping , and upon what foundation 
1 laid my foolish fchemes. 

Having retired to my cattle , after my late voyage 
to the ship , my frigate laid up and fecured , as ufual, 
and my condition the fame as before, except being 
richer , though I had as little occasion for riches as 
the Indians of Peru had for gold , before the cruel 
Spaniards came among them : One night in March , 
being the rainy feafon , in the four and twentieth 
year of my folitude , I lay down to deep , very well 
in health , without diftemper , pain , or uncommon 
uneafmefs, either of body or mind ; yet notwith- 
fianding, I could not compofe myfelf to fleep all the 
night long. All this tedious while , it is impoffible 
to exprefs what innumerable thoughts came into my 
bead. I traced quite over the whole hiftory of my 
life in miniature , from my utmoft remembrance of 
things till I came to this ifland j and then proceeded 
toexamine every a&ion and pafiage that had occurred 
fince I had taken poffeflion of my kingdom. In my 
jrefle&ions upon the latter , I was comparing the 
happy pofture of my aflairs in the beginning of 
my reign , to this of anxiety , fear , and concern , 
fince I had difcovered the print of a foot in the fandj 


Digitized by Googl 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 117 

-that while I continued without apprehenfion , I was 
incapable of feeling the dread and terror I now fuf- 
fered. How thankful rather ought 1 to have been 
for the knowledge of my danger , fince the greateft 
happinefs one can be poffeffed of is to have fuSicient 
time to provide againft it ! How fiupendous is the 
goodnefs of providence , which fets fuch narrow 
bounds to the fight and knowledge of human nature, 
that while men walk in themidfl of fo many dangers 
they are kept ferene and calm, by having the events 
of things hid from their eyes , and knowing nothing 
of thofe many dangers thatfurround them, till per-* 
haps they are diffipated and vanish away. 

When I came more particularly to confidet of the 
real danger I had for fo many years efcaped how I 
had walked about in the greateft fecurity and tran- 
quility , at a time , perhaps , when even nothing but 
the brow of a hill , a great tree , or the common ap- 
proach of night , had interpofed between me and the 
deftru&ive hands of the cannibals.who would devour - 
me with as good an appetite , as I would a pigeon 
or curlieu •, furely all this , I lay , could not but make 
me fincerely thankful to my great Prel'erver, whofe 
fingular prote&ion I acknowledged with the greateft 
humility , and without which I muft inevitably have 
fallen into the cruel hands of thole devourers. 

Having thus difcuffed my thoughts in the cleareft 
manner , according to my weak underfianding , I 
next proceeded to confider the wretched nature of 
thefe deftroying favages , by feeming , though with 
great reverence , to enquire , why God should give 

F 4 



128 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

up any of his creatures to fuch inhumanity , even t<k 
brutality itfelf , to devour its own kind. But as this 
was rather matter of abftrufe fpeculation, and as my 
miferable fituation made me think this of mine the 
mod uncomfortable fituation in the world , I then 
began rather to enquire what part of the world thefe 
Wretches lived in ; how far off the coaft was from 
whence they came ; why they ventured over fo far 
from home ; what kind of boats conveyed them hi- 
ther \ and why I could not order myfelf and my bu- 
finefs fo , that I might be as able to attain their coun- 
try , as they were to come to my kingdom ? 

But then , thought I , how shall I manage myfelf 
when I come thither ? what will become of me if 
I fall into the hands of the favages ? or how shall I 
-efcape from them , if they make an attempt upon me ? 
andfuppofing I should not fall into their power, what 
shalll do for provifion,or which wayshall I bendmy 
courfe? Thefe counter- thoughts threw me into the 
-greateft horror and confufion imaginable ; but then 
I ftill looked upon my prefent condition to be the 
mod miferable that pofiibly could be, and that nothing 
could be worfe, except death. For (thought I) could 
I but attain the shore of the main , I might perhaps 
meet withfome relief, or coaft it along, as I did with 
my boy Xury , on the African shore , till I came to 
fome inhabited country , where I might meet with 
fome relief , or fall in with fome Chriftian ship that 
might take me in ; and if I failed, why then I could 
but meet with death , which would put an end to all 
my miferies, Thefe thoughts , I mud confefs, were 


'Digitized by Googte 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 119 

the fruit of a diftemperedmind, an impatient temper 
made defperate , as it were , by long continuance of 
the troubles and the difappointments I had met with 
in the wreck, where I hoped to have found fome living 
perfon to fpeak to , by whom I might have known in 
what place I was , and of the probable means of my, 
deliverance. Thus , while my thoughts were agitated, 
myrefignation to the will of heaven was entirely fuf- 
pended;fothatI had no power to fix my mind to any 
thing , but to the project of a voyage to the main 
land. And indeed fo much was I inflamed upon this 
account, that it fet my blood into a ferment, and my 
pulfe beat high, as though I had been in a fever , till 
nature being, as it were , fatigued and exhaufted with 
the very thoughts of it , made me fubmit myfelf to 
a filentrepofe. 

In fuch a fituation , it is very ftrange, that I did not 
dream of what I was fo intent upon •, but , inftead of 
it, my mind roved on a quite different thing, altoge- 
ther foreign. I dreamed , that as I was ifluing from 
my caftle , one morning , as cuftomary , I perceived 
upon the shore, two canoes, and eleven favages, co- 
ming to land, who had brought with them another In- 
dian, whom they defigned to make a facrifice of , in 
order to devour ; but juft as they were going to give 
the fatal blow , methought the poor defigned vi&im 
jumped away , and ran direftly into my little thick 
grove before my fortification, to abfeond from his e- 
nemies; when perceiving that the others did norfbl- 
lowhim that way , I appeared to him •, that he hum- 
bly kneeled down before me, feeming to pray formy 

" 'r s ” - - 


\ 




Digitized by Google 


130 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

affiftance ; upon which I shewed him my ladder , 
made him afcend, carried him to my cave , and he 
became my fervant; and when I had gotten this man, 
Ifaid to my felf , Now fur ely I may have fome hopes to 
attain the main-land ; for this fellow will ferve me as 
a pilot , tell me what to do , and where I mud go for 
provifions ; what places to shun, what to venture to, 
and what to efcape. But when I awaked , and found 
all thefe inexpreffible impreflions of joy entirely va- 
nished, I fell into the greateft dejedlionoffpirit ima- 
ginable. . • 

Yetthis dream brought me torefleft, thatonefure 
way of efcaping was to get a favage ; that after I had 
ventured my life to deliver him from the bloody jaws 
of his devourers , the natural fenfe he might have of 
fuch a prefervation , might infpire him with a lading 
gratitude and mod fincere affedtion. But then this 
objedlion reafonably interpofed : How can I effedl 
this ( thought I) without I attack a whole caravan of 
them, and kill them all ? why should I proceed on fuch 
a defperate attempt , which my fcruples before had 
fuggefted to be unlawful ? and indeed my heart trem- 
bled at the thoughts of fo much blood , tho’ it were a 
means to procure my deliverance.’Tis true, Imight rea- 
fonably enough fuppofe thefe men to be real enemies 
to my life, men who would devour me,wasitin their 
power ; fo that it was felf-prefervation in the higheft 
degree to free myfelf, by attacking them in my own 
defence, as lawfully as if they wereaftually affaulting 
- me.Though all thefe things, I fay,feemed to me to be 
t >£ the greateft weight , yet, as I juft faid before, the 


. Digitised by Google 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 131 

dreadful thoughts of shedding human blood , ftruck 
fuch a terror to my foul , that it was a long time be- 
fore I could reconcile myfelf to it. 

, But how far will the ardency of delire prompt us 
on ? For , notwithftanding the many difputes and 
perplexities I had with myfelf, I at length refolved, 
right or wrong , to get one of thefe favages into my 
hands, coft what it would , or even though I should 
lofe my life in the attempt. Infpired with this firm 
refolution , I fet all my wits at work, .to find out 
what methods I should take to anfwer my defign : 
this , indeed , was fo difficult a task, that I could not 
pitch upon any probable means to execute it : I , 
therefore, refolved continually to be in a vigilant po- 
fture , to perceive when the favages came on shore , 
ond to leave the reft to the event , let the opportuni- 
ties offer as they would. 

Such were my fixed refolurions •, and accordingly 
I fet myfelf upon the fpout , as often as I could r till 
fuch time as I was heartily tired of it. I waited for 
•above a year and a half, the greateft part of which 
time I went out to the weft , and fouth weft corner 
of the ifiand , almoft every day , to look for canoes ; 
but none appeared. This was a very great difco.u- 
ragement •, yet .though I was very much concerned , 
the edge of my defire was as keen as ever , and the 
longer it feemed to be delayed , the more eager was 
I for it : in a word , I never before was fo careful to 
shun the loathing fight of thefe favages , as 1 was 
•now eager to be with them : and I thought myfelf 
fufficiently able to manage one , two , or three f«v»- 

F 6 


Digitized by Google 


131 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ges, if I had them, fo as to make them my entire 
Raves , to do whatfoever I should direCl them , and 
prevent their being able at any time to do me a mif- 
chief. Many times did I ufe to pleafe myfelf with 
thefe thoughts , with long and ardent expectations; 
but nothing prefenting , all my deep projected 
fchemes , and numerous fancies , vanished away , as 
though, while I retained fuch thoughts, the decree 
of Providence was fuch , that no favages were to 
come near me. 

About a year and a half after, when I was ferioufly 
muling of fundry other ways howl should attain my 
end, one morning early I was very much furprifed by 
feeing no lefs than five canoes all on shore together on 
my fide the ifland, and the favages that belonged to 
“them all landed , and out of my fight. Such a num- 
ber of them difconcerted all my meafures; for, feeing 
fo many boats, each of which would contain fix , and 
fometimes more, I could not tell what to think of it , 
or how to order my meafures , to attack twenty or 
thirty men fingle handed : upon which , much difpi- 
rited and perplexed, I lay ftill in my caftle ; which, 
however, I put in a proper pofture for an attack •, and, 
having formerly provided all that was neceffary,was 
foon ready to enter upon an engagement, should they 
attempt it. Having waited for fome time , my impa- 
’tient temper would let me bear it no longer ; 1 fet my 
guns at the foot of my ladder , and , as ufual , afcend- 
ed up to the top of the hill at two ftages , {landing , 
however, in fuch a manner, that my head did not ap- 
pear above the hill, fo that they could not eafily per** 


1 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 13* 

ceive me : and here , by the afliftance of my perfpec* 
tive glafs , I obferved no lefs than thirty in number 
around a fire feafting upon what meat they had drefT- 
ed : how they cooked it , or what it was, I could not 
then perfeftly tell ; but they were all dancing and 
capering about the flames , ufing many frightful and 
barbarous geftures. 

But while, with a curious eye, I was beholding thefe 
wretches^ my fpirits funk within me , when I percei- 
ved them drag two miferable creatur es from the boats, 
to aft afresh the dreadful tragedy, as I fuppofed they 
had done before. It was not long before one of them 
feil upon the ground , knocked down , as I fuppofe , 
with a club or wooden fword, for that was their man- 
ner •, while two or three others went immediately to 
work, cutting him open for their cookery , and then 
fell to devour him as they had done the former ; 
whilethelaft unhappy captive was leftbyhimfelf, till 
-fuch time as they were ready tor him. The poor 
creature looked round him with a wishful eye, trem- 
bling at the thoughts of death ; yet , feeing himfelf a 
little at liberty, nature, that very moment, as it were, 
infpiredhim with hopes of life : he ftarted away from 
them,, and ran , with incredible fwiftnefs , along the 
fands , direftly to that part of the coaft where my an^ 
cient and venerable caflle flood. * 

You m ay well imagine, I was dreadfully affrighted, 
upon this occafion, when, as I thought, they purfued 
him in a whole body, all running towards my palace. 
And now, indeed , I expefted, that part of my dream 
~$ras going to be fulfilled, and that he would certainly 


Digitized by Google 


l?4 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fly to my grove for protedlion ; but , for the reft of 
my dream , I could depend nothing on it, that the fa* 
vages would purfue him thither , and find him there. 
However, my fpirits beginning to recover, I ftill kept 
upon my guard •, and I now plainly perceived, there 
were but three men out of the number that purfued 
him. I was infinitely pleafed with what fwiftnefs the 
poor creature ran from his purfuers , gaining fomuch 
ground of them , that I plainly perceived , could he 
thus hold it for half an hour, there was not the leaft 
<lou b t but he would fave his life from the power of his 
enemies. 

Between them and my caftle there was a cfeek,that 
.very fame which I failed into with all my effe&s from 
the wreck of the ship , on the fteep banks of which I 
very much feared the poor vidim would be taken, if 
he could not fwim for his efcape : But foon was I out 
of pain for him , when I perceived he made nothing 
of it , though at full tide , but , with an intrepid cou- 
rage , fpurred on by the fenfe of danger , he plunged 
into the flood, fwimming over in about thirtyftrok.es, 
^nd then landing, ran with the fame in credible ftrength 
and fwiftnefs as before. 'When the three purfuers 
came to the creek , one of them , who I perceived 
could not fwim, (happily for his part) , returned back 
to his company, while the others , with equal cou- 
rage, but much lefs fwiftnefs, attained the other fide, 
as though they were refolved never to give over their 
purfuit. And now or never I thought was the time 
for me to procure me a fervant, companion, or affilb- 
ant ; and that I was decreed by Providence to be the 


I 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 135 

Inftrument that should fave this poor creature’s life. I 
immediately defcended my two ladders with the great- 
eft expedition ; 1 took up my two guns, which, I faid 
before, were at the bottom of them: and, gettingupa- 
gain with the fame hafte towards the hill,Imade near- 
er the fea. In a word, taking a short cut downthehill, 
I interpofed between the purfuers andpurl'ued,halloo- 
ing aloud to the latter , who, venturing to look back, 
was , no doubt, at firft, as much terrified at me as I at 
them. I beckoned to him, with my hand, to return 
back , in the mean time advancing towards the pur- 
fuers , and rushing on the foremoft , I knocked him 
down with the ftock of my piece , and laid him flat 
on the ground. I was very unwilling to fire, left the 
reft should hear , though , at that diftance , Iqueftio- 
ned whether they could or no; and, being out of fight 
of the fmoke, they could not eafily have known what 
to make of it. The other favage feeing his fellow fall , 
Hopped as if he had been amazed -, when , advancing 
towards him,I could perceive him take his bow from 
his back , and, fixing an arrow to it, was preparing to 
shoot at me, and, without difpute, might have lo dged 
the arrow in my breaft •, but , in this abfolutely ne- 
ceflary cafe offelf prefervation , 1 immediately fired 
at him, and shot him dead , juft as his hand was going 
to draw the fatal firing. All this while,the favage who 
had fled before flood ftill , and had the fatisfaflion to 
fee his enemies killed , as he thought , who defigned 
*0 take away his life : fo affrighted was he with the 
fire and noife of my piece , that he flood as it were 
Tike Lot's wife, fixed and immoveable, without either 


Digitized by Googlf 


136 tlFE AND ADVENTURES 

fenfe or motion. This obliged me to halloo to him 
again, making theplaineft fignsl could to him to draw 
nearer. I perceived he underftood thefe tokens by his 
approaching to me a little way , when , as if afraid I 
should kill him too ., he flopped again. Several times 
did he advance , and as often flop in this manner , till, 
coming more to my view, I perceived him trembling, 
as if he was to undergo the fame fate. Upon which 
I looked upon him with a fmiling countenance, and 
ftill beckoning to him; at length he came clofe to me, 
and kneeled down , kiffed the ground , laid his head 
upon it, and taking me by the foot; fet it upon 
his head : and this , as I underftood afterwards , was 
a token of fwearing to be my {lave for ever. I took 
him up , and , making much of him , encouraged him 
in the beft manner I could. But my work was not 
yet finished;for I perceived the favage whom 1 knock- 
ed down , was not killed, but ftunned with the blow, 
and began to come to himfelf. Upon which I pointed 
to my new fervant , and shewing him that his enemy 
was not yet expired, hefpoke fome words to me, but 
which I could not underftand ; yet being the firft 
found of a man’s voice I had heard for above twenty - 
five years , they were very pleafing to me. But there 
was no time for reflexion now, the wounded favage. 
recovering himfelf fo far as to fit upon the ground, 
which made my poor prifoner as much afraid as be- 
fore ; to put him out of which fear, I prefented my Or 
ther gun at the man, with an intent to shoot him; but 
my favage, for fo I muft now call him, prevented my 
firing , by making a motion to me, to lend him my; 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 137 

fword , which hung naked in a belt by my fide. No 
fooner did I grant his requeft, but away he runs to his 
enemy, and at one blow cut off his head as dexterouf- 
ly as the mod accomplished executioner in Germany 
could have donerfor, it feems,thefecreaturesmakeufe 
of wooden fwords made of hard wood,which will bear 
edge enough to cut off heads and arms at one blow. 
When this valorous exploitwas done, he comestome 
laughing , as a token of triumph , delivered me my 
fword again , with abundance of furprifing geftures , 
laying it along, with the bleeding and ghaftly head of 
the Indian at my feet. > 

The greateft aftonishment that my new fervant con* 
ceived, was the manner of killing the favage at fucha 
difiance , without a bow and arrow : and fuch was his 
longing defire to know it, that he firft pointed to the 
dead carcafe , and then made figns to me to grant him 
leave to go to him. Upon which I bid him go , and , 
as well as I could, made him fenfible I granted his 
requeft. But when he came there , how wonderfully 
was he ftruck with amazement ! Firft he turned him 
.on one fide , then on another , wondering he could 
perceive no quantity of blood, he bleeding inwardly; 
and after fufficiently admiring the wound the bullet 
had made in his breaft,he took up his bow and arrows, 
and came back again •, upon which I turned to go a- 
way , making many figns to him to follow , left the 
reft miffing their companions , might come in purfuit 
of him. And this I found he underftood very well , 
by his making me underftand that his defign was to 
bury them , that they might not be feen if it happen-- 


Digitized by Google 


t;9 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

cd *, and which by figns again I made him fenfible I 
very much approved of. Immediately he fell to work, 
and never was grave digger more dexterous in the 
world than he was j for in an inftant , as I might fay , 
he fcraped a large hole in the fands with his hands , 
fufficient to bury the firft in ■, there he dragged him , 
and without any ceremony he covered him over •, in 
like manner he ferved the other : fo that I am fure no 
undertaker could be more expert in his bufinefs; for 
all this was done in lefs than a quarter of an hour. I 
then called him away , and inftead of carrying him 
dire&ly to my caftle at firft , 1 conveyed him to my 
cave on the farther part of the ifiand : and fo my 
dream was not fulfilled in that particular , that my 
grove should prove an afylum or fan&uary to him. 

Weary and faint , hungry and thirfty , undoubted- 
ly muft this poor creature be , fupported chiefly by 
that vivacity of fpirit , and uncommon tranfports of 
joy that his deliverance occafioned. Here I gave him 
bread and a bunch of raifins to eat , and water to 
drink,onwhichhe fed very cheerfully, to his exceed- 
ing refreshment. I then made him a convenient bed, 
with a parcel of rice ftraw , and a blanket upon it , 
(abedwhichl ufed myfelffometimes),andthen point- 
ing to it, made figns for him to lie down to fleep,up- 
on which the poor creature went to take a welcome 
repofe. 

Indeed he wasa very comelyhandfomeyoung feU 
low , extremely well made , withftraight long limbs, 
not too large , tall and well shaped , and , as near as I 
could reckon , about twenty-fix years of age. His 


Digitized by Googl 



OF ROBINSON CRUSO& 13$ 

Countenance had nothing in it fierce or furly, but 
rather a fort of majefty in his face ; and yet , efpe- 
cially when he fmiled , he had all the fweetnefs and 
foftnefs of an European. His hair was not curled 
like wool , as many of the blacks are, but long and 
black , with the moft beautiful , yet carelefs , treffes 
fpreading over his shoulders. He had a very high 
and large forehead, with a great vivacity and fpark- 
ling sharpnefs in bis eyes. His skin was not fo tawny 
as the Virginians , Brazilians, or other Americans? 
but rather of a bright dun olive colour, that had 
fomething agreeable in it , though not very eafy to 
give a defcription of. His face was round and plump, 
with a fmall nofe , very different from the flatnefs of 
the negroes , a pretty fmall mouth , thin lips , fine 
teeth , very well fet, and white as the driven fnow. 
Ia a word , fuch handfome features , and exaft fym- 
metry in every part , made me confider , that I had 
faved the life of an Indian prince , no lefs graceful 
and accomplished than the great Oroonoko , whofe 
memorable behaviour and unhappy contingencies of 
life have charmed the world , both to admiration of 
his perfon , and compafiion to his fufferings. 

But let him be either prince or peafant , all my 
happinefs centered in this , that I had now got a good 
fervant or companion , to whom , as he deferved , I 
was refolved to prove a kind matter and lafting 
friend. He had not , I think , flept above an hour , 
when he awakened again , and while I was milking 
nay goats hard by, out he runs from the cave towards 
me in my inclofure , and laying himfelf down on the 


Digitized by Google 


r 


h 


*40 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ground in the lowcft probation , made all the antifr 
geflures imaginable , to exprefs his thankfulnefs to 
me for being his deliverer. I confefs, though the 
manner of his behaviour feemed to be ludicrous e- 
nough to occafion laughter ; yet I was very much 
moved at his affeXion , fo that my heart melted with- 
in me, fearing he might die away in excefs of joy , 
like reprieved malefaXors •, efpecially as I was inca- 
pable either to let him blood , or adminifter phyfic.. 
It were to be wished, that Chriftians would take ex- 
ample by this Heathen , to have a lading remem-i 
biance of the benefits and deliverances they have re- 
ceived, by the kind mediation and powerful interpo- 
lation of their benefactors and deliverers ; and , it 
would likewife be happy for mankind, were there no 
occafion to blame many , who , inftead of thankfully 
acknowledging favours and benefits, rather abufe and 
contemn thofe who have been the infiruments to fave 
them from deftruXion. A i 

But , leaving thefe juft reflexions , I return to the 
objeX that occafioned them ; for my man , to con- 
clude the laft ceremony of obedience , laid down hi* 
head again on the ground , clofe to my foot, and fet 
my other foot upon his head, as he had done before , 
making all the figns of uibjeXion, fervitude, and fub- 
miflion imaginable , to let me underhand he would 
ferve me as long as his life endured. As I under- 
flood him in many things , I made him fenfible I was 
very well pleafed with him *, and , in a little time , I 
began to fpeak to him , and learn him how to talk 
to, me again. In the firft place., I made him un- 


Digitized by C 


Google | 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. t*t 

derftand his name was to be Friday , becaufe it was 
upon that day I faved his life : then I taught him to 
fay Mafter , which I made him fenfible was to be my 
name. I likewife taught him to fay Yes and No, 
and to know what they meant. I gave him fome 
milk in an earthen pot , making him view me while 
I drank it before him , and foaked my bread in it ■, I 
gave him a cake of bread, andcaufed him to foak it 
likewife, to which he readily confented , making 
figns of the greateft fatisfa&ion imaginable. 

All that night did I keep him there •, but no fooner 
did the morning light appear , when I ordered him to 
arife , and come along with me, with certain tokens 
.that I would give him fome clothes like mine, at which 
he feemed very glad , being ftark naked , without the 
leaft covering whatever. As we paffed by the place 
.where the two men hadbeen interred, my manpointed 
dire&ly to their graves.shewing me the marks that he 
had made to find them again , giving me to underftand , 
•by figns, that we should dig them upland devour them, 
AtthisI appeared extremely difpleafed,exprefled my 
utmoft abhorrence, as if I would vomit at the appr ehen- 
lions of it , beckoning with my hand to come away, 
whichhe did with the greateft reverence and fubmif- 
.fion. After this I conduced him to the top of the hill , 
to view if the reft of the favages were yet remaining 
there-, but whenllookedthroughmyperfpeiftiveglafs, 
I couldfee no appearance of them.nor of their canoes; 
fo that it was very evident they never minded their de» 
ceafed companions whom wehadflain ; which if they 
had, they would furely have fearfched for, or left one 


u% LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
boat behind for them to follow , after they returned 
from their purfuit. 

- v Curiofity , and a defire of (atisfa&ion, animating md 
jrith courage to fee this fcene of barbarity, I took my 
man Friday with me , putting a fword into his hand , 
with the bow and arrows at his back , which 1 per- 
ceived he could ufe very dextroufiy , caufing him to 
carry one gun for me , and I two for mylelf ; afl d 
thus equipped againft all attacks , away we marched 
dire&ly to the place of their bloody entertainment. 
But when I came there , I was (truck with the utmoft 
horror at fo dreadful a fpettade , whilft Friday was 
.no way concerned about it , being no doubt in his 
turn one of thefe devourers. Here lay feveral hu- 
man bones , there feveral pieces of mangled flesh , 
half eaten, mangled and fcorched , whilft ftreams of 
blood ran promifcuoufly as waters from a fountaiil. 
As I was mufing on this dreadful fight , Friday took 
- ,all the pains he could , by particular figns , to make 
me underftand , that they had brought over four 
prifoners to feaft upon , three of whom they had 
■eaten up , and that he was the fourth , pointing to 
himfelf : that there having been a bloody battle be- 
tween them and his great king , in the juft defence 
of whom he was takeaprifoner, with many others ; 
all of thefe were carried off to different places , to be 
devoured by their conquerors ; and that it was his 
misfortune to be brought hither by thefe wretches 
for the fame purpofe. 

' After 1 was made fenfible of thefe things , I caufed 
Friday to gather tliofe horrid remains , and lay them 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

together upon a heap , which I ordered to be fet oft 
fire, and burnt them to ashes : my man, however, fti.1l 
retained the nature of a cannibal , having a hanker^ 
ing ftomach after fome of the flesh : but fuch aa 
extreme abhorrence did I exprefs at the leaft appear* 
ance of it , that he durft not but conceal it : for I 
made him very fenfible , that if he offered any fuch 
thing , I would certainly shoot him. 

This being done , I carried my man with me to mjf 
caftle , and gave him a pair of linen drawers , which 
I had taken out of the poor gunner’s cheft before 
mentioned : and which , with a little alteration, fitted 
him very well : in the next place , I made him a jer- 
kin of goat-skin , fuch as my skill was able to ma- 
nage , and indeed I thought niyfelf then a tolerable 
good tailor. I gave him alfo a cap , which I made 
of a hare’s skin , very convenient and fashionable. 
Thus being clothed tolerably well , my man was no 
lefs proud of his habit , than I was in feeing him in 
it. Indeed he went very awkwardly at firft, the 
drawers being too heavy on his thighs , notufed to 
bear any weight , and the fleeves of the waiflcoat 
galled his shoulders , and the infide of his arms ; but 
by a little eafing where he complained they hurt him, 
and by ufing himfelf to them , at length he took to 
them very well. 

My next concern was , where I should lodge him : 
and that I might do well by him , and yet be perfect- 
ly eafy myfelf , I ere&ed a tent for him in the vacant 
place between my two fortifications, in the infide of 
the laft , and the outfide of the firft : and as there was 






Digitized by Google 


<44 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

an entrance or door Into my cave , I made a formal 
frame door-cafe , and a door to open on the infide ; 
I barred it up in the night time , taking in my lad- 
ders too , fo that , was my man to prove treacherous , 
there could be no tray to come at me in the infide of 
my innermoft wall, without making fo much noife in 
getting over , that it muft needs waken me •, for my 
firft wall had now a complete roof over it of long 
poles , fpreading over my tent, and leaning up to the 
fide of the mountain , which was again laid crofs 
with fmaller flicks inftead of laths , and thatched over 
a great thicknefs with the rice ftraw , which was as 
flrong as reeds ; and at the hole of the place, left on 
purpofe to go in or out by the ladder , I had placed a 
kind of a trap-door, which , if it had been attempted 
on the outfide, would not have opened at all, but have 
fallen down , and made a great noife ; and as to my 
weapons, every night I took them all to my bed fide. 
/ But there was no occafion for this precaution ; for 
furely never matter had a more fincere , faithful , and 
loving fervant than Friday proved to me. Without 
pafiion , fullennefs , or defign , perfeftly obliging and 
engaging , his affe&ions were as much tied to me , as 
thofe of a child to his parents ; and I might venture to 
fay , he would have facrificed his life for the faving 
mine , upon any occafion whatfoever. And indeed 
the many teftimonies he gave me of this , fufficiently 
convinced me that I had no occafion to ufe thefe pre- 
cautions. And here I could not but refleft , with 
great wonder , that however it hath pleafed the Al- 
mighty in his providence , and in the government of 

the 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. * 4 f 

creation, to take from fo great a part of the -world 
of his creatures, the nobleft ufes to which their facul- 
ties, and the powers of their fouls are adapted yet 
that he has beftowed upon them the fame reafon, af» 
feXions, fentiments of kindnefs, and obligation, paf- 
fions of refentment , fincerity , fidelity , and all the 
capacities of doing and receiving good that he has 
given us *, and that when he is gracioufly pleafed tck 
offer them occafions of exerting thefe, they areas 
ready, nay, more ready , to apply them to the proper 
ufes for which they were beftowed , than j we often, 
are. Thefe thoughts would make me melancholy , 
efpecially when I confidered how mean a ufe we 
make of ail thefe.even though we have thefe powers 
enlightened by the Holy Spirit of God , and by the 
knowledge of his word , as an addition to our under- 
ftanding-,and why it has pleafed the heavenly wifdont 
to conceal the like faving knowledge from fo many 
millions of fouls, who would certainly make a much 
I better ufe of it than generally mankind do at this 
time. Thefe reflexions would fometimes lead me fo 
far , as to invade the fovereignty of Providence, and, 
as it were , arraign the juftice of fuch an arbitrary 
flifpofition of things , that should obfcure that light 
from fome , and reveal it to others , and yet expeX a 
like duty from all. But I clofed it up , checking my 
thoughts whith this conclusion \firft , That we were 
ignorant of that right and law by which theie sh ould 
be condemned ; but that as the almighty was necef- 
farily, and by the nature of his effence, infinitely juft 
and holy 5 fo it could not be other wife , but that 

G 


■’-'V 


Digitized by Google 


t$> LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

thefe creatures were all deftined to abfence from him* 
felf , it was on account of finning againft that light, 
which,as the fcripture fays, was a law to themfelves, 
and by fuch rules as their confciences would acknow- 
ledge to be juft , though the firft foundation was not 
difeovered to us. And , fecondly , that ftill as we 
were the clay in thehand of the potter, no vefiel could 
thus fay to him , Why haft thou fashioned me after 
this manner ? 

■ I had not been above two or three days returned to 
my caftle, but my chief defign was , how I should 
bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding-, and, 
to take from him that inhuman relish he by nature 
had been accuftomed to, I thought it my duty to let 
hint tafte other flesh, which might the rather tempt 
him to the fame abhorrence I fo often exprefled a- 
gainft their accurfed way of living. Upon which, one 
morning I took him out with me , with an intention 
to kill a kid out of the flock , and bring it home , and 
drefc it. As 1 was going , 1 perceived a she-goat ly- 
ing down in the shade, and two young kids fitting by 
her. Immediately I catchedhold of my man Friday , 
and bidding him ftand ftill , and not ftir , I prefented 
my piece, and shot one of the kids.My poor fervant , 
who had at diftanee perceived me kill his adverfary, 
and yet did not know by what means, or how it was 
done, flood trembling and furprifed, and looked fo a- 
ttazed, that I thought he would have funk into the 
earth. He did not fee the kid I aimed at, or behold I 
had killed it , but ripped up his waiftcoat to fee if he 
was not wounded, thinking my resolution was to kill 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 147 

fiim; for coming to me, he fell on his knees, earneft- 
ly pronouncing many things which I did not under- 
ftand the meaning of •, which at length I perceived 
was , that I would not t ake away his life. 

Indeed I was much concerned to fee him in that 
condition , where nature is upon the fevereft trial, 
when the immediate hand of death is ready to put for 
ever a period to this mortal life : and indeed fo much 
compaffion had I to this creature, thatit was with dif- 
ficulty I refrained from tears. But , however, as ano- 
ther fort of countenance was neceffary, and to convin- 
ce him that I would do him no harm , I took him, fmi- 
ling , by the hand , then laughed at him , and pointing 
to the kid whichlhad (lain, made figns tahim to fetch, 
it, which accordingly he did. No lefs curious was, 
he in viewing how the creature was killed , than he 
had been before inbeholdingtheIndian;which, while 
he was admiring at, I charged my gun again,and pre- 
fently perceived a great fowl like a hawk .perching 
Upon a tree within shot ;and , therefore, to let Friday 
underftand what I was going to do, I called him to me 
again, pointing at the fowl,whichIfound to be a parrot. 

I made him underftand that I would shoot and kill that 
bird ; accordingly I fired , and bade him look , when 
immediately he faw the parrot fall down. Again he 
flood like one amazed , notwithftanding all I had faid 
to him; and the more confounded he was, becaufehe 
did not perceive me prft any thing into my gun. Un- 
doubtedly a thing fo utterly ftrange , carrying death 
along with it, far or near,either to man or beaft, mull * 

certainly create the greater aftonishment to one who 

G 2 


Digitized by Google I 


14 * LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

never had heard of fuch a thing in his whole life:an<f 
really his amaze ment continued fo long,thathad I al« 
lowed it, he would have proftratedhimfelf before me 
and my gun, with the greateft worship and adoration. 
As for the gun in particular , he would not fo much as 
fuffer his fingers to touch it for feveral days after j 
but would come and communicate his thoughts to it , 
and talk to it , as if the fenfelefs piece had underfiood 
and anfwered him : all this I could perceive him do, 
when he thought my back was turned, the chief in- 
tent of which was , to defire it not to kill him , as I 
afterwards came to underftand. 

I never ftrove to prevent his admiration, nor hin- 
der him from thofe comical geftures he ufedon fuch 
occafions-, but when his aftonishment was a little o- 
ver , I made tokens to him to run and fetch the par- 
rot that I had shot-, which he accordingly did, flaying 
Come time longer than ufual , by reafon the bird, not 
being quite dead , had fluttered fome way farther 
from the place where she fell. In the mean time , as 
he was looking for her, I took the advantage of char- 
ging my gun again , that fo I might be ready for any 
other mark that offered ; but nothing more occured 
at that time. So I brought home the kid , and the 
fame evening took off the skin , and divided the car- 
cafe as well as 1 could. Part of this flesh I ftewed 
and boiled, in a pot I had for this purpofe. And then 
fpreading my table, I fat down, giving my man fome 
of it to eat , who was wonderfully pleafed,and feem- 
ed to like it very well; but what was moft furprifing 
to him was to fee me eat fait with it : upon which he 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 14$ 

mademe tounderftand ,that the fait -was verybadfor 
me : -when putting a little into his mouth, he Teemed 
to naufeate it in fuch a manner, as to fpit and fputter 
at it .and then washed his mouth with fresh water: 
but to shew him howcontrary his opinionwas to mine, 
I put Tome meat into my mouth without fait , and 
feigned to fpit and fputter as much for the want of it* 
as he had done at it : yet all this proved of no figni* 
fication to Friday ; and it was a long while before he 
tould endure fait in his meat or broth, and even then 
but a very fmall quantity. 

. Thus , having fed himfufficiently with boiled meat 
and broth at that time , the next day I was refolved 
to feaft him with a roafted piece of the kid. And 
havingnofpitto fallen it, nor jack to turn it , I made 
ufe of rhat common artifice which many of the people 
of England have , that is , to fet two poles upon each 
fide of the fire, and one crofs on the top, hanging the 
meat thereon witha firing, and fo turning round con* 
tinually , roaft it in the lame manner as we read 
bloody tyrants of old cruelly roafted the holy mar* 
tyrs. This pra£lice caufed great admiration in my 
man Friday , being quite another way than that to 
which the favages were accuftomed. But when he 
came to tafte the fweetnefs and tendernefs of the flesh, 
he expreffed his entire fatisfattion above a thoufand 
different ways. And as I could not but underftand 
his meaning , you may be fure I was as wonderfully 
pleafed , efpeciatly when he made it alfo very plain 
to me , that he would never , while he lived , eat 
man’s flesh more. 

Ci 


jj© LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

It is now high time I should fetmy fervant to 
■work; fo, next day, 1 put him to beat out fome corn, 
and fift it in the fame manner as I had done before; 
And really the fellow was very quick and handy in 
the execution of any thing I ordered him to go about. 
1 made him underftand that it was to make bread for 
us to eat , and afterwards let him fee me bake it. In 
short, he did every thing as I ordered him , in a little 
time, as well as I could perform it myfelf. 

But now confidering that Ihadtwomouths to feed 
inftead of one , it was neceffary that I muft provide 
more ground for my harveft , and plant a larger quan- 
tity of corn than I commonly ufed to do; upon which 
I marked out a larger piece of land , fencing it in, in 
the fame manner asl had done before ;in the execu- 
tion of which I muft give Friday this good word f 
that no man could work more hardy, or with better 
will than he did : and when I made him fenfible thae 
it was for bread to ferve him as well as me , he then 
very paflionatelymade me underftand,that he thought 
I had much more labour on his account, than I had 
for myfelf ; and that no pains or diligence should be 
wanting in him , if I would but direft him in thofe 
works wherein he might proceed. 

I muft certainly own , that this was the moft plea- 
fant year I ever had in the ifland;for, after fome time, 
Friday began to talk pretty well , and underftand the 
names of thofe things which I was wont to call for , 
and the places where I ufed to fend him. So that my 
long filent tongue , which had been ufelefs fo many 
years , except in an exclamatory manner, cither for 


r 






Digitize 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ijl 

deliverance or bleflings,now began tobe occupied in 
teaching , and talking to my man Friday ; for indeed 
1 had fuch a fingular fatisfadlion in the fellow him- 
felf, fo innocent did his Ample and unfeigned honefty 
appear more and more to me every day , thatl really 
began entirely to love him •, and for his part , 1 be- 
lieve there was no love loft , and that' his nature had 
been more charmed with my exceeding kindnefs,and 
his affettions more placed upon me , than any other 
objeift whatfoever among his own countrymen. X 
bncehadagreatmindtotry if he had any hankering 
inclination to his own country again : and by this 
time having learned him Englishfo well, that he could 
give me tolerable anfwers to any queftion which 
1 demanded , I asked him.whether that nation to 
which he belonged , ever conquered in battle? This 
queftion made Friday to fmile , and to which he 
anfwered yes , yes , we always Jight the better ; as much 
as to fay , they always got the better in fight. Upon 
which we proceeded on the following difeourfe 
You fay, faid I , that you always fight the better; 
why then , Friday , how came you to be taken 
priloner ? 

Friday. But for all that, my nation beat much. 

Majler. How , fay you, beat ! if your nation beat 
them , how came you to be taken ? 

Friday. They more many mans than my nation in 
the place where me was , they take one, two , three 
and me : my nation much overbeat them in the yon- 
der place where me no was , there my nation mans 
beat one , two , three great toufand.. 

G 4 


Digitized by Google 


lyz LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Majler. Then why did not your men recover yon 
from the hands of your enemies ? 

- Friday. They run one , two , or three , and me ; 
they make all go in the canoo ; my nation have no 
canoo that time. 

. Majler. ’Tis very "well, Friday; but what does 
your nation do with the prifoners they take?Do they 
carry them away and eat them as thefe have done ? 

Friday. Yes , yes , my nation eat mans too , eat 
up all. 

Majler. To what place do they carry them to be 
devoured ? 

Friday. Go to other nations where they think. 

Majler. Do they bring them hither ? 

Friday. Yes , come over hither , come over other 
place. 

Majler. And have you been with them here , Fri- 
day. 

Friday. Yes, me been here , ( pointing to the north- 
wejl of the ijland , being the fide where they ufed to 
land). 

Thus having got what account I could from my 
man I plainly underftood , that he had been as bad 
as any of the reft of the cannibals , having been for- 
merly among the favages who ufed to come on shore 
on the far theft part of the ifland,upon the fame bloody 
occaftonsas he was broughthither fortandfome time 
after I carried him to that place where he pointed ; 
and no fooner did he come there , but he prefently 
knew the ground , fignifying to me that he was once 
there when they ate up twenty men,two women^d 


Digitized by Googl Cj 


* -1 


\ 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 155 

a young child •, but as he could not explain the num- 
ber in English , he did it by fo many Rones in a row, 
making a fign to me to count them. 

This paflagelhave the rather mentioned , becaufe 
it led to things more important and ufeful for me to 
know : for alter I had this fatisfa&ory difcourfe with 
him, my next queftion was, how far it was from the 
ifland to the shore, and whether the canoes were not 
often loft in the ocean ? to which he anfwered. There 
was no danger ; that no canoes were ever loft ; but 
that after a little way out to the fea , there was a 
ftrong current, and a wind always one way in the af- 
ternoon. This I thought at firft to be no more than 
the fets of the tide , of going out or coming in •, but 
I afterwards underftood it was occafioned by the great 
draught and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko , 
in the mouth orgulf of which I imagined my king- 
dom lay ; and that the land which I perceived to the 
W. and N. W. mud be the great ifland Trinidad, on 
the north of the river. A thoufand queftions ( if that 
would fatisfy me) did I ask Friday , about the nature 
of the country , the fea, the coafts , the inhabitants 
and what nations were neareft them •, to which que- 
ftions the poor fellow declared all he knew, with the 
greateft opennefs , and utmoftfincerity. When I de- 
manded of him the particular names of the various 
nations of his fort of people, he could only anfwer 
me in general , that they were called Carahc. Hence 
it was I confidered that thefe muft be the Caribbees , 
fo much taken notice of by our maps , to be on that 
part of America , which reaches from the mouth of 1 - 

GJ 


I?4 life and adventures 

the river Oroonoko to Guiania , and fo on to St Mars 
tha. Then Friday proceeded to tell me , that , up a 
great way beyond the moon, as much as to fay, beyond 
the fetting of the moon, which muft be W. from their 
country , there dwelt white-bearded men , fuch as I 
Was, pointing to my whiskers, and that they kill much 
mans. I -was not ignorant with what barbarity the 
Spaniards treated thefe creatures fo that I prefently 
concluded it muft be them, whofe cruelties hadfpread 
throughout America , to be remembered even tofuc- 
ceeding generations. 

"Well, you may be fure, this knowledge, which the 
imperfett information of my man had led me to , was 
very comfortable to me , and made me fo curious as 
to ask him , how I might depart from this ifland , and 
get among thofe white men ? He told me , Yes ,yes , 1 
might go in two canoes. In two canoes ; thought I , 
what does my man mean? Surely he means one for 
himfelf , and another for me ; and if not , how muft 
two canoes hold me without being joined , or one 
part of my body being put in one, and another in the 
other ? And , indeed, it was a long while before I un- 
derftood his meaning , which was , that it muft be a 
large boat , as big as two canoes , able to bear with 
the waves , and not fo liable to be overwhelmed as 
one muft be. 

I believe there is no ftate of life but what may be 
happy , if people would but endeavour for their part 
to make it fo. He is not the happieft man that has 
the raoft riches , but he that is content with what he 
hath. Before I had my fervant , I thought myfelf 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE; 155 

miferable till I had him •, and now that I enjoyed the 
happy benefits of him , I ftill complained, and begged 
a deliverance from a place of retirement, eafc , and 
plenty, where Providence had fufficiently blefied me. 
In a word, from this time I entertained fome hopes , 
that one time or other I might find an opportunity to 
make my efcape from this ifland , and that this poor 
favage might be a great furtherance thereto. 

• All the time fince my man became fo intelligent as 
to under ftand and fpeak to me, Ifpared no pains nor 
diligence to inftruifl: him , according to my poor share 
of knowledge, in the principles of religion , and the 
adoration that he ought to pay to the Tiue God. One 
time, as I very well remember, I asked him who made 
him ? At firft the innocent creature did not under* 
ftand what I meant , but rather thought I asked him 
who was his father? Upon which I took another way 
to make him fenfible, by demanding from him an an- 
fwer to this queftion. Friday , faid I , who is it that 
made the fea , this ground whereon we walk , and all 
thefe hills and woods which we behold ? And here , 
indeed , I did not mifs of my intention; for he told 
me, it was old Benamuckce (the God whomlfuppofed 
thefe favages adored) who lived a great way beyond 
all. But as for his attributes, poor Friday was an 
utter ftranger. He could deferibe nothing of this 
great perfon -, and all that he could fay was , that he 
was very old , much older than the fea and land , the 
moon , or the ftars. Friday , ( faid I again ) , if this 
great and old perfon has made all things in the world . 
how comes it to pafs , that all things , as you in par*. 

G <j 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 157 

Which the dire&ions of God’s Holy Spirit aflifted me. 
I lifted up my hands to heaven, and pointing thereto, 
told him , that the great Maker of heaven and earth 
lived there : that as his infinite power fashioned this 
world out of a confufed chaos , and made it in that 
beautiful frame which we behold, fo he governs and 
preferves it by his unbounded knowledge, fovereign 
greatnefs,and peculiar providence: that he was omni- 
potent, could do every thing for us, give every thing 
to us, and take everything away from us: that he was 
a rewarder and punisher of good and evil a<ftions:that 
there was nothing but what he knew, no thoughts fo 
fecret but what he could bring to light ; and thus , by 
degrees , I opened his eyes , and defcribed to him the 
manner of the creation of the world , the fituation of 
paradife,the tranfgrefiion of our fir ft parents, the wic- 
kednefs of God’s peculiar people, and the univerfal 
fins and abominations of the whole earth. ‘When, 
thefe things were implanted in his mind , I told him , 
that as God’s juftice was equal to his mercy, he refol- 
ved to deftroy this world , till his Son Jefus Chrift in- 
terpofed in our behalf; and, to procure our redemption, 
obtained leave of his heavenly father to come down 
from heaven into the world, where he took human na- 
ture upon him , inftrufted us in our way to eternal 
life , and died as a facrifice for our fins •, that he was 
now afcended into heaven,mediating for our pardon,, 
delivering our petitions, and obtaining all thofe good 
benefits which we ask in his name , by humble and 
hearty prayers, all which were heard at the throne of 
fceaven. As very frequently I ufed to inculcate things 


Digitized by Google 


r 


i*S LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

into his mind , Friday one day told me, that if out* 
great God could hear us beyond the fun, he muft fure- 
]y be a greater God than their Benamuckee, who lived 
but a little way off , and yet could not hear them till 
tlieyafcended the great mountains where hedwelt.to 
fpeaktohim. What, faid I , Friday , did you go thi- 
ther to fpeak to him too? He anfwered, No, they ne- 
ver went that were young men, none but old men cal- 
led their Oowakakee , meaning the Indian priefts , who 
■went to fay 0, (fohe called faying their prayers), and 
they returned back , and told them what Benamuc* 
foe faid. From hence , I could not but obferve how 
happy we Chriftians are, who have God’s immediate 
revelation for our certain guide; and that our faith is 
neither mifled, nor our reafon impofed upon, by any 
fet of men , fuch as thefe Indian impoftors. 

But , to clear up this palpable cheat to my man Fri- 
day , I told him , that the pretence of their ancient 
men going up to the mountain to fay O to their God 
Benamuckee was an impofture , and that their bring- 
ing back an anfwer was a sham , if not worfe ; for* 
that, if there was any fuch thing fpoken to them.fure- 
ly it muft proceed from an infernal fpjrit. And here 
1 thought it neccft'ary to enter into a long difeourfe- 
with him , which 1 did after this manner. 

Friday, (faid I) , you muft know , that before this 
world was made, there was an Almighty Power exift-: 
ing,by whofe power all things were made.and whofe* 
Majefty shall have no end. To be glorified and ado-- 
red by beings of a heavenly nature, he created angels 
and arch-angels , that is , glorious fpirits referabling. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 159 

himfelf , to encompafs his throne , eternally finging 
forth his praife in the mod heavenly founds and di- 
vine harmony. And, among this heavenly choir, Lu- 
cifer bore a great fway , as being then one of the pe- 
culiar favourites of thefe celeftial abodes •, but he , 
contrary to that duty he owed his heavenlySovereign, 
With unbounded ingratitude to his divine Creator, 
not only envied him that adoration which was his 
due , but thought to ufurp that throne which he had 
neither power to keep , nor title to pretend to. He 
raifed a diffenfion and civil war in heaven, and had 


a number of angels to take his part. Unbounded fol- 
ly ! ftupendous pride ! thus to hope for victory , and 
afpire above his powerful Creator ! The Deity , not 
fearful offuch an enemy, yet juftly provoked at this 
rebellion, commiflions his arch-angel Michael to lead 
forth the heavenly hoft, and give him battle ; the 
advantage of which was quickly perceived, by Satan’s 
being overthrown , and the prince of the air , ( for fo 
the devil was called) with all his fallen angels.driven 
headlong into a difmal place , which is called Hsll. 

The recital of this truth made my man give the 
greateft attention , and he expreffcd a great fatisfac- 
tion by his geftures , that God had fent the devil into 
the deep hole. And then I defiredhim to give great 
heed to what I had further to fay. 

No fooner (proceeded I) was God freed from , and 
the heavens clear of this arch-traitor , but the Father 
fpeaks to the Son and Holy Spirit , who belonged to 
his effence,and were equal to him in power and glory," 
C ome let us make man , ( faid he ) in our own intake , after 


Digitized by Google 


160 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

our own likcnefs , Gen. i. 26. to have dominion over 
the creatures of the world which we have created. 
And thefe he intended should glorify him in heaven , 
according to their obedience in this ftate of probation 
on earth , which was , as it were , to be the fchool to 
train them up for thefe heavenly manfions. Now , 
Satan feeing him foiled; yet , that God had not ta- 
ken the power from him as prince of the air , which 
power Heaven ddigned he should retain , whereby 
his creatures might be tried ; in revenge for the dif- 
grace he had received, he tempts Adam’s wife , Eve , 
to tafte of the tree of knowledge of good and evil , 
which God had forbidden. He appears to her in the 
shape of a ferpent, then a moft beautiful creature , 
and tells her . that it was no better than an impofi- 
tion which God had put upon her and her husband , 
not to eat of that fair fruit which he had created ; 
that the tafte thereof would make them immortal like 
God himfelf ; and confequently as great and power- 
ful as he. Upon which she not only eat thereof her- 
felf , but made her husband eat alfo , which brought 
them both under the heavenly difpleafure. 

Here Friady exprefled a great concern ; Ah , poor 
pians ! ( cried he ) naughty womans ! naughty devil ! 
nuke God not love de mans , make mans like devil him- 
/elf 

Friday, faid I, Godftill loved mankind ; and tho’ 
the devil tempted human nature fo far, he would not 
fuffer him to have an abfolute power over them. I 
have told you before of his tender love to his people, 
till they , like Lucifer , difobeyed his commands and 


Digitized by Goog|e 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. .161 

Rebelled againfthimi and even then, how Jefus Chrift, 
his only Son , came to fave linners. But ftill every 
man that lives in the world is under temptation and 
trial. The devil has yet a power , as prince of the 
air, tofuggeft evil cogitations into our minds, and 
prompt us on to wicked a&ions , that he might glory 
in our deftru&ion. Whatever evil thoughts we have 
proceed from him ; fo that God , in this our diftrefs, 
expe&s we should apply ourfelves to him by fervent 
prayer for fpeedy redrefs. He is not like Benamuchee , 
to let none come near him but Oowakakee , but fuffers 
the people as well as priefts to offer themfelves at his 
feet , thereby to be delivered from the power and 
temptation of the devil. 

But though at firft my man Friday exprefled fome 
concern at the wickednefs of Lucifer , I found it not 
fo eafy to imprint the right notions of him in his 
mind , as it was about the divine effcnce of God : for 
there nature aflifted me in all my arguments, to shew 
to him plainly the ncceflity of a great firft caufe, and 
over-ruling governing power , of a fecret directing 
Providence , and of the equity and reafonablenefs of 
paying adoration to our Creator ■, whereas there ap- 
peared nothing of all this in the notion of an evil 
fpirit, of his firft beginning, his nature, and, above all, 
of his inclination to evil aftions , and his power to 
tempt us to the like. And indeed this unlearned 7n- 
dian , by the mere force of nature , puzzled me with 
one particular queftion, more than ever I could have 
expetled. 

1 had , it feems , one day , been talking to him of 


Digitized by Google 



i6i LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

the omnipotent power of God, and his infinite abhor- 
rence of fin , infomuch that the fcriptures ftyled him 
a confuming fire to all the workers of iniquity ; and 
that it was inhis power, whenever he pleafed, to de- 
ttroy all the world in a moment , the greater part of 
which are continually offending him. 

"When , with a ferious attention , he had liftencd a 
great while to what I faid, after I had been telling 
him how the devil was God’s enemy in the hearts o£ 
men , and ufed all his malice and skill to defeat the 
good defigns of Providence, and deftroy the kingdom 
of Chrift in the world , and fo forth : Very well , ma- 
tter , faid Friday , you fay God is fo ftrong , fo great y 
is he not much ftrong ,, much mightier than the 
Haughty devil ? To be fure , Friday , faid I , God is 
more wife, and ftronger than the ferpent: he is above 
the devil, which makes us pray to him, that he would 
tread down Satan under our feet , enable us to refill 
his violent temptations , and quench his fiery darts. 
Why then , anfwered Friday quickly , if God , as you 
fay , has much ftrong , much might as the devil , why God 
no kill devil , make no more tempt , no more do wicked. 

You may be certain , I was ftrangely furprifed at 
this queftion of my man’s •, and , though an old man y 
1 was but a young doftor , and confequently very ill 
qualified for a cafuift, or a refolver of intricate doubts 
in religion. And , as it required fome time for me to 
ftudy for an anfwer , l pretended not to hear him , 
nor to ask him what he faid : But , fo earneft was he 
for an anfwer, as not to forget his queftion-, which he 
repeated in the very fame broken words as above. 


Digitized by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 163 

When I had recovered myfelf a little, Friday, i aid I, 
God will at laft punish him fcverely , being rejerved for 
judgment , and is to be caft into the bottomlcfs pit , to 
remain in fire everlafling. But all this did not fatif- 
fy Friday ; for , returning upon me , he repeated my 
words, RESERVE AT LAST, me no undcrfiand ; but , 
why not kill devil now , not kill devil , great , great while 
ago ? Friday , faid I , you may as well ask me why 
God does not kill you and me, when, by our wicked 
a&ions , we fo much offend his Divine Majefty ? He 
gives us time to repent of our fins , that thereby we 
may obtain pardon. At thefe words , obtain pardon , 
Friday mufed a great while ; and , at laft , looking me 
ftedfaftly in the face , Well , well , faid he , that’s very 
well ; fo you , I , devil , all wicked mans , all preferve i 
repent , God pardon all. 

- Indeed , here I was run down to the laft extremity, 
when it became very evident to me, how mere natu- 
ral notions will guide reafonable creatures to the 
knowledge of a Deity, and to the homage due to the 
fupreme being of God •, but, however, nothing but 
divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jefus 
Chrift , and of a redemption purchafed for us , of the 
Mediator of the new covenant , and of an intercefior 
at the footftool of God’s throne-, and, therefore, the 
gofpel of our Lord and Saviour Jefus Chrift that is , 
the Word and Spirit of God , promifed for the guide 
and fanttifier of his people, are the moft neceflary in- 
ftruttors of the fouls of men, in thefaving knowledge 
of the Almighty, and the means to attain eternal hap- 
pinefs. ' 


Digitized by Google 


j64 life and adventures 

And new I found it neceffary to put an end to this 
difeourfe between my man and me ; for which pur. 
pofe I rofe up haftily , and made as if 1 had fome oc- 
cafion to go out, fending Friday for fomething that 
was a good way off. I then fell on my knees , and 
befeeched God that he would infpire me fo far as to 
guide this poor favage in the knowledge of Chrift, to 
anfwer his queftions more clearly, that his cqnfcience 
might be convinced , his eyes opened, and his foul 
faved. When he returned again , I entered into a 
very long difeourfe with him,upon the fubjeft of the 
world’s redemption by the Saviour of it , and the 
dottrine of repentance preached from heaven, toge- 
ther with an holy faith in ourbleffed Redeemer Jefus 
Chrift: and then I proceeded to explain to him , ac- 
cording to my weak capacity, the reafon why ourSa-? 
viour took not on him the nature of angels , but ra- 
ther the feed of Abtaham ; and how the fallen angels 
had no benefit by that redemption ; and , laftly, that 
he came only to the loft sheep of the houfe oiIfrael % 
and the like. God know's I had more fincerity than 
knowledge in all the ways I took for this poor In- 
dian's inftru&ion ; and , I muft acknowledge , what I 
believe every body that afts upon the fame principle 
will find, that in laying heavenly truths open before 
him, I informed and inftruftedmyfelf in many things, 
that either I did not know , or had not perfe&ly con- 
sidered before; fo that , however this poor creature 
might be improved by my inftru&ion , certain it is , 
that I myfdf had great reafon to be thankful to Pro- 
vidence for fending him to me. His company allayed 


Digitizec 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. t6y 

»y grief, and made my habitation comfortable •, and , 
when I refle&ed , that the folitary life to which I had 
been fo long confined , had made me to look further 
towards heaven, by making me the inftrument, under 
Providence , to fave the life , and for aught I know, 
the foul of this poor favage , by bringing him to the 
knowledge of Jefus Chrift , it caufed a fecret joy to 
fpread through every part of my foul •, and I fre- 
quently rejoiced.that ever I was brought to this place, 
which I once thought the moll miferable part of the 
world. 

: In this thankful frame of mind did I afterwards 
continue , while I abode on the ifiand , and for three 
years did my man and I live in the greateft enjoyment 
of happinefs. Indeed , I believe the favage was as 
good a Chriftian as I *, and I hope we were equally 
penitent-, and fuch penitents as were comforted and 
reftored by God’s Holy Spirit •, for now we had the 
word of the Lord to inftruft us in the right way , as 
much as if we had been on the English shore, 
t By the conftant application I made of the Scrip- 
tures , as I read them to my man Friday , I earneftly 
endeavoured to make him underftand every part ofit, 
as much as lay in my power. He alfo , on the other 
hand , by his very ferious queftions and inquiries , 
made me a much better proficient in fcripture know- 
ledge , than I should have been by my own private 
reading and ftudy. I mud not omit another thing , 
proceeding from the experience I had in my retire- 
ment 4 It was that infinite and inexpreffible bleffing , 
the knowledge of God through Jefus Chrift , which 


Digitized by Googl 


1 66 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

was fo plain and eafy to be underftood, as immediate* 
ly to diredl me to carry on the great work of fincere 
repentance for my fins , and laying hold of a Saviour 
for eternal life, to a pra&icai ftated reformation , and 
obedience to all God’s inftitutions, without the afiift- 
ance of a reverend and orthodox divine •, and efpe- 
cially by this fame inftru&ion, fo to enlighten this fa- 
vage creature , as to make him lo good a Chriftian t 
as very few could exceed him. And there was only 
this great thing wanting, that I had no authority to 
adminifter the holy facrament, that heavenly parties 
pation of Chrift’s body and blood ; yet, however, we 
refted ourfelves content, that God would accept our 
defires, and according to our faith, have mercy on us. 

But what we wanted one way , was made up in a- 
nother , and that was univerfal peace in our little 
church. We had no difputes and wranglings about 
the nature and equality of the holy , bleffed , and un* 
divided Trinity •, no niceties in do&rine , or fchem.es 
of church government j no four andmorofe dilfen- 
ters to impofe more fublimated notions upon us ; no 
pedant fophifters to confound us with unintelligible 
myfteries : but , inftead of all this , we enjoyed the 
moft certain guide to heaven ; that is , the word o£ 
God ; befides which , we had the comfortable views 
of his Spirit leading us to the truth , and making us 
both willing and obedient to the inftru&ion of his. 
word. As the knowledge and practice of this are 
the principal means of falvation , 1 cannot fee what 
it avails any Chriftian Church, or man , in the world, 
to amufe himfelf with fpeculations and opinions, ex* . 


Digitized by-Gofciglg 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 167 
cept it be to difplay their particular vanity and affect 
tation. 

You may •well fuppofe , that , by the frequent dif- 
courfe we. had together, my man and me became moll 
intimately acquainted , and that there was but very 
\ittle that I could fay , but what Friday underftood ; 
and, indeed, hefpoke very fluently, though it was but 
broken English. I now took a particular pleafure in 
relating all my adventures, efpecially thofe that oc- 
curred fince my being call on this illand. I made 
him underftand that wonderful myftery , hs he con- 
ceived , of gun powder and bullet , and taught him 
how to shoot. I alfo prefented to him a knife, which 
pleafed him exceedingly , making him a belt, with a 
frog hanging thereto , like thofe in which we wear 
hangers in England •, and , inflead of a hanger to put 
in the frog, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only 
a good, but even a better weapon upon many occali- 
ons. In a word , my man thus accoutred , looked up- 
on himfelf as great as Don Quixote , when that ce- 
lebrated champion went to combat the windmill. 

I next gave him a very particular defcription of 
the territories of Europe , and in a particular manner 
of Old England , the place of my nativity. I laid be- 
fore him the manner of our worshipping God , our 
behaviour one to another, and how we trade in ships 
to every part of the univerfe. I then told him my 
misfortunes in being shipwrecked , showing him , as 
near as I could , the place where the ship lay , which 
had been gone long before •, but I brought him to the 
ruins of my boat , which before my whole ftrength 


k68 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

could not move , but now was almoft rotten , and 
fallen to pieces. I obferved my man Friday to view 
this boat with an uncommon curiofity ; which,whea 
he had done , he flood pondering a great while , and 
faid nothing. At lalt , laid I, Friday, what makes 
you ponder fo much ? He replied, 0 mafttr , me ft t 
like boat come to place at my nation. 

It was fome time,indeed,before I underftood what 
my man meant j but examining ftridlly into it , I 
plainlyfound that fuch another boat, refembling mine, 
had come upon the country where he dwelt ; that is 
to fay , by his farther explanation , that the boat was 
driven there through violentftorms and ftrefs of wea- 
ther. It then came into my mind , that fome Euro- 
pean ship having been call away, the poor diftreffed 
Creatures were forced to have recourfe to the boat to 
fave their lives ; and being all , as 1 thought , drown- 
ed , I never concerned myfelf to ask any thing con- 
cerning them , but my only inquiry was about the 
boat, and what defeription my man could give of it. 

Indeed Friday anfwered my demands very well, 
making every thing very plain to my underflanding; 
but beyond meafure was I fatisfied, when he told me, 
With great warmth and ardour , O mafttr , we favc 
white mans from drown ; upon which I immediately 
asked him , if there were any white mans , as he called 
them , in the boat ; Yes , yes , faid he , the boat full , 
very full of white mans. How many , Friday ? faid I. 
Hereupon he numbered his fingers , and counted fe- 
venteen. And when I asked him what became of 
them all, and whether they lived or not ? he replied. 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 169 

Yes , mafter , they all live , they he live among my nation. 
This information put fresh thoughts into my head , 
that thefe muft be thofe very men who before I con- 
cluded had been fwallo wed up in the ocean, after they 
had left their ship , that had ftruck upon the rocks of 
my kingdom, and after efcaping the fury of the deep, 
landed upon the wild shore , and committed them- 
felves to the fury of the devouring Indians. 

The manner of their cruelties to one another, which 
confequently, as I thought, muft be a&ed with greater 
barbarity to ftrangers , created in me a great anxiety, 
andmademeftill more curious toask Friday concern- 
ing them.He told me he was fure they ftill lived there, 
having refided among them above four years , and 
that the favages gave them viftuals to live upon. But 
pray, Friday, faid I, whence proceeded all this good 
nature and generoftty ? How came it to pafs that they 
did not kill and eat them , to pleafe their devouring 
appetites •, and occafion fo fplendid an entertainment 
among them ? No , no , faid Friday , they not kill ’em , 
they make brother with ’em ; by which I underftood 
there was a truce between them. And then I had a 
more favourable opinionof the Indians, upon Friday’s 
littering thefe words : My nation , t ’ other nation no eat 
mans , but when mans make war fight ; as though he 
had faid , that neither thofe of his kingdom , nor any 
other nations that he knew of, ever ate their fellow- 
creatures , but fuch as their law of arms allowed to 
be devoured-, thatis, thofe miferable captives, whofe 
misfortune it should be to be made prifoners of war. 

Some confiderable time after, upon a very pleafant 

H 


Digitized by GoogltJ 


170 LITE AND ADVENTURES 

day , in nioft ferene weather , my man and I flood up 
on the top of a hill , on the eaft fide of the iiland ; 
whence I had Once before beheld the continent of 
America. 1 could not tell immediately what was the 
matter; for fuddenly Friday fell a jumping and dan- 
cing as if he had been mad ; and upon my demand- 
ing thereafon of his behaviour, 0 joy, faidhe, 0 glad, 
there fee my country , there my nation , there lire white 
mans gether. And indeed fuch a rapturous fenfe of 
pleafure appeared in his countenance , that his eyes 
had an uncommon fparlding and brightriefs, and fuch 
a flrange eagerniefs , as if he had a longing defire to 
be in his own country again. This made me not fo 
Well fatisfied with my man Friday as before ; for by 
this appearance , I made no difpute, but that if he 
could get back thither again , he would nOt only be 
unmindful of what religion I had taught him , but 
likewife of the great obligation he owed me for his 
wonderful deliverance : nay, that he would not only 
inform his countrymen of me , but accompany hun- 
dreds of them to my kingdom , and make me a mi- 
ferable facrifvce like thofe unhappy wretches taken 1 
in battle. . 

Indeed I was very much to blame to have thefe I 
Cruel and unjuft fufpicions , and mull freely own 1 I 
Wronged the poor creature very much, who was of a 
quite contrary temper. And had he had that difeern- 
ittg acutehefs which manyEuropeans have, he would 
certainly have perceived my coldnefsandindifferen- 
ce.andalfo have been very much concerned upon that 
account ; as l was now more circumfped , 1 had 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 171 

much leffened my kindnefs and familiarity with him, 
and while this jealoufy continued , I ufed that art- 
ful way ( now too much in fashion , the occaflon of 
ftrife and dflfention ) of pumping him daily, thereby 
to difcover whether he was deceitful in his thoughts 
and inclinations t but certainly he had nothing in 
him but what was confiftent with the beft principles, 
both as a religious Chriftian and a grateful friend \ 
and, indeed, I found every thing he faid was fo inge-r 
nuous and innocent, that I had no room forfufpicion, 
and , in fpite of all uneaflnefs , he not only made me 
entirely his own again , but alfo caufed me much to 
lament that I ever conceived one ill thought of him. 

As we were walking up the fame hill another day, 
when the weather was fo hazy at fea , that I could 
l not perceive the continent , Friday, faid I, don’t you 
1 wish yourfelf to be in your own country , your own 
1 nation , among your old friends and acquaintances ? 
I Yes , faid he , me much O glad to he at my own nation * 
j And what would you do there , Friday ? "Would you 
i turn wild again , eat mans flesh , and be a favage as 
l you w ere formerly ? No , no , ( anfwered he , full of 
concern , and shaking his head ) , Friday now tell them. 

I to live good , tell them pray God , tell them to eat corn- 
1 bread , cattle flesh , milk , no eat man again. But furely , 
replied I, if you should offer to do all this , they will 
kill you ; and to manifeft their contempt of fuch in- 
ftruftion, eat you up when they have done. He then 
put on a grave , yet innocent and fmooth counte- 
nance , faying , No , they no kill me , they willing love 
learn ; that is , that they would be very willing to 

Hi 


Digitized by Google 


172 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

learn : adding withal , that they had learned much of 
the bearded mans that come in the boat. 'Will you , 
faid I , go back again , Friday ? He fmiled at that , and 
told me, that he could not fwim fo far. But , faid I , I 
will make a canoe for you : Yes , mafier , faid he , me 
go if you go , me no go if you flay. I go , Friday ! why , 
would you have them eat me up , and devour your 
kind mailer ? No , no , faid he , me make them not eat 
mafier , me make they much love you ; that is , he would 
tell them how I had flain his enemies , and thereby 
faved his life, for which reafon he would make them 
love me : and then he related to me , as well as he 
was able, how exceeding kind thofe of his nation 
were to the white, or bearded men, as he called them , 
who , in their great calamity , were driven into their 
country. 

It was from this time , indeed , I had llrong incli- 
nations to venture over , and ufe my utmoft efforts , 
if poflible, to join thefe white bearded men, who un- 
doubtedly were Spaniards orPortuguefe-, for, thought 
I, it muft be certainly a better and fafer way to efcape 
when there is a good company , than for me alone , 
from an ifland forty miles off the shore , and without 
any afliftance. Some days after , Friday and I being 
at work, asufual, at the fame time diverting ourfelves 
with various difcourfes, I told him I had a boat which 
I would bellow upon him, whenever he pleafed to re- 
turn to his own nation : aud to convince him of the 
tr uth of what I faid , I took him with me to the other 
fide of the ifland, where my frigate lay, and then ta- 
king it from under the water , ( for I always kept it 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 173 

fuhk for fear of a difcovery ) we both went into it to 
fee how it would manage fuch an expedition. 

And really never could any be more dexterous in 
rowing than my faithful fervant, making the boat go 
as fall again as I could. Well , now , Friday, faid I , 
shall we now go to your fo much defired nation ? But 
inftead of meeting with that cheerfulnefsl expedited, 
he looked very dull and melancholy at my faying fo; 
which indeed at firft furprifed me , till he made me 
fenfible , that his concern was about the boat’s being 
too fmall to go fo far a voyage. Upon which I let 
him underftand I had a much bigger; and, according- 
ly, the next day went to the place where the firft boat 
lay , which I had made , when all the ftrength I had , 
or art I could ufe , failed me in my attempt to get it 
into the water ; but now it having lain in the fun 
two and twenty years, and no care being taken of it 
all that while , it became in a manner rotten. My 
man told me , that fuch a boat would do very well to 
the purpofe , fufficient to carry enough vittle , dring , 
bread , for that was his manner of talking. In short , 
my mind being ftrongly fixed upon my defign of go- 
ing over with him to the continent, I very plainly 
told him , that we would both go and make a boat full 
as big, and more proportionable than that, wherein he 
might fafely return to his own nation. 

Thefe words made Friday look fo very penfive , 
that I thought he would have fallen at my feet. It 
was fome time before he could fpeak a word, which 
made me ask him , what was the matter with him ? 
He replied, in a very foft and moving tone, What has 

H 3 


Digitized by Google 


174 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

poor Friday done ? why a'e you angry mad with poor fer- 
vent ? what me done , O what me done ? Friday , laid I , 
you never yet have offended me : what makes you 
think I am angry with you , when I am not angry at 
all ? You no angry , no angry , faid he feveral times ; if 
you be no angry , why den fend Friday over great water 
to my own nation ? Why , furely, Friday, anfwered I, 
did younot wish to be there, when, from a mountain, 
you beheld the place where you was born ? and is it 
not to fatisfy your defires that I am willing to give 
you leave to return thither ? Yes , yes , faid Friday , me 
wish be there fure enough , but mt den wish mafter there 
too : no wish Friday there , no mafter there. In short , 
he could not endure the thoughts of going there with- 
out me. I go there , Friday , faid I , what shall I do 
there ? — He anfwered very quickly , O mafter, you 
do great deal much good , you teach all de wild mans to be 
good tame mans : you learn dem to be fober , live good 
life , to know God, and pray God. Alas ! poor Friday, 
faid I , what can I do againft their prieftjof Bena- 
muckee, or indeed what good canlmake your nation 
fenfible of, when I myfelf am but a poor ignorant 
man ? No , no , mafter , faid he , you be no ignorant , you 
teachee me good , you teachee dem good. You shall go 
without me , Friday , faid I , for I don’t care to ac* 
company you thither •, I would rather live in this fo- 
litude than venture among fuchinhuman favages.Go 
your way, fince you defire it, and leave me alone by 
myfelf, as I was before I faved your life. 

Never was any creature more thunder-ftruck than 
Friday was at thefe words. Go mt away , leave mafter 


Google 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 175 

away , faidhe, after a longfilence, no, no, Friday die , 
Friday live not , mafieT gone, as though he had faid, 
I neither can nor will live , if my mafter fends me 
from him. And here I cannot but take notice of the 
ftrqng ties of friendship , which many times lurpafs 
thofe of confanguinity: For often we find a great dis- 
agreement among kindred; and , when there is any 
feeming regard for each other, it is very Seldom true, 
and Scarce ever lafting , if powerful intereft does not 
bear the fw ay ; and that alone is often the occafion 
of the greateft hatred in the world, which is to defire 
the death of parents and relations, for the fake of ac- 
quiring their fortunes. But there was no fuch thing 
between my Servant and me : inftead of which there 
was the greateft gratitude, and the moftfincere love; 
he found me not only his deliverer, but his preferver 
and comforter ; not a fevere and cruel tyrant , but a 
kind, loving, and affable friend. He wanted for no 
manner of fuftenance ; and , when he was ill , or out 
of order,.! was his phyfician, not only for his body , 
but his foul ; and therefore no wonder was it , that 
fuch an innocent creature, long fince diverted of his 
former natural cruelty , should have an uncommon 
concern at fo cruel a Separation from me , which 
pierced him to the very foul , and made him defire 
even to die , rather than live without me. 

After I had told Friday , in a very carelefs manner, 
that he should be at his liberty as foon as the boat was 
made , the language of his eyes ertpreffed all imagi- 
nable confufion ; when immediately running to one 
of his hatchets , which he ufed to wear as a defenfive 

H 4 


Digitized by Google 


vj6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

weapon , he gives it into my hand , with a heart fo 
full , that he could fcarcely fpeak. Friday , faid I , 
what is it you mean ? What mull I do with this ? 
Only kill Friday , faid he , Friday care not live long. 
But what mull I kill you for ? replied 1 again. Ah ! 
dear mafier , what made you Friday fare from eat a me 
up , fo keep long Friday , make Friday love God , and not 
love Benamuckee , and now Friday fend away , never 
fee Friday more. As though the poor creature had 
faid , Alas , my deareft kind mafter , how comes it to 
pafs, that, after having ventured your precious life to 
fave me from the jaws of devouring cannibals like 
myfelf , after fuch a tender regard to provide for me 
fuch a comfortable nourishment , and continuing fo 
long a kind mafter , and a moft ftneere friend ; and 
after making me forfake the falfe notion of an Indian 
deity , and worship the true God in fpirit and in 
truth : after all this , how comes it now, that you are 
willing to fend me away to my former courfe of li- 
ving, by which means undoubtedly we shall be dead 
to each other ; but greater mull be my misfortune j 
-that I shall never behold my beft friend I have in the 
world any more. And this undoubtedly, though he 
could not exprefs himfelf fo clearly, mud be his fen- 
timents •, for the tears ran down his cheeks in fuch a 
plentiful manner , that I had much ado to refrain 
from weeping alfo, when I beheld the poor creature’s 
affe&ion ; fo that I was forced to comfort him in the 
beft manner I could , which I did, by telling him , if 
he was content to abide with me , I should be ever 
willing to keep him. 




t Google 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 177 

After Friday’s grief was fomething abated, more 
fully to convince me of his affe&ion, he faid , O ma~ 
fier , me not care to be in my nation , leave you here : me 
defire nation learn good , that’s all ; meaning , that his 
defire was for the converfion of that barbarous people. 
But as I had no apoftolic million , nor any concern 
about their falvation •, fo I had not the lead intention 
or defire of undertaking it : and the ftrength of my 
inclination, in order to efcape.proceeded chiefly from' 
my late difcourfe with Friday, about thefe feventeen 
white bearded men , that had been driven upon the 
barbarian coaft, whom I defigned to join, as the only 
means to further our efcape.- To which intent my 
man and I went to fearch for a proper tree to fell , 
whereof we might make a large periagua or canoe, 
to undertake the voyage : and, indeed, we were not _ 
long in finding one fit for our purpofe , there being 
enough of wood in the ifland to have built a fleet of 
large veflels , but the thing we principally wanted 
was , to get one fo near the water , that we might 
launch it after it was finished , and not commit fo 
horrid a miftake as I had done once before. 

'Well , after a great fearch for what was beft and 
moil convenient , Friday at laft, whofe judgment in 
fuch affairs was much fuperior to mine, pitches upon 
a kind of wood the moil fitting for it. To this 
day I cannot tell the name of the tree , nor defcribe 
it any other way , than only by faying, that it is very 
like what we call fuftic, or betwixt that and the Ni- 
caragua wood , being much of the fame colour and 
fmell. But though my man exceeded me in thje 

hi . 


178 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

knowledge of the.moft proper tree, yet I shewed him 
a much better and cleaner way to make a canoe than 
ever he knew before : for he was for burning the 
hollow or cavity of the tree , in order to make this 
boat ; but I then told him how we might do it with 
tools , learning him at the fame time how to ufe 
them, which indeed he did very dexteroufly ; fo that 
in a month’s labour we finished it , making it very 
handfome , by cutting the outfide into the true shape 
of a boat. After this it took us a full fortnight before 
we could get her into the water, which we did , as it 
were, inch by inch, upon great rollers : but when she 
was in, she would have carried twenty men, with all 
the eafe imaginable. 

As 1 was very well pleafed, you may be fure, at the 
launching of this man of war of mine , I was no lefs 
amazed to behold with what dexterity my man would 
manage her , turn her, and paddle her along. Well , 
Friday, faid I, what do you think of it now ? Do you 
think this will carry us over ? Yes , mafter , faid he, 
me venture over well , though great blow wind. But my 
defign was yet farther , which he was infenfible of; 
and that was to make a mail and fail , and to provide 
her with an anchor and cable. As to a mall , that 
was no difficult thing at all to procure ; fo I fixed 
Upon a llraight young cedar-tree, which I found near 
the place , great plenty of it abounding in the illand ; 
and fetting Friday to cut it down , I gave him parti- 
cular direftions how to shape and order it; but as to 
the fail , that I managed myfelf. I very well knew I 
had fome old ones , or pieces of fails enough , which 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 179 

had lain fix and twenty years by me ; but not being 
careful to preferve them , as thinking I should have 
no occafion to ufe them any more , when I qame to 
look them over, I found them alrnofl all rotten , ex- 
cept two ; and with thefe I went to work , and after 
a great deal of pains and awkward tedious Hitching 
for want of needles, at length I finished a three-cor- 
nered ugly thing like what we call in England a 
shoulder of mutton fail, to go with a boom at bottom, 
and a little fmall fprit at the top , like thofe which 
our longboats ufe, and which I very well knew how 
to manage ; efpecially finee it was like that winch 
I had in my patron’s fishing boat , when , with my boy 
Xury , I made my efcape from the Barbarian shore. 

It was near two months, I think , before I comple- 
ted this work , that is , the rigging , and fitting nvy 
mail and fails ; and indeed they were nicely done 
having made a fmall ftay, and a fail , or forefail to it ,* 
to aflift , if we should turn to the weftward ; and , 
which was ftill more, I fixed a rudder to the ftern of 
her , to fleer with and though I was but a very in- 
different shipwright , yet , as I was fenfible of the 
great ufefulnefs and abfoluteneceflity of a thing like 
this , I applied myfelf to it with fuch a conftaut ap- 
plication , that at laft I accomplished my defign •, but 
-what with the many dull contrivances I had about it, 
and the failure of many things, it cofl me as much pains^ 
an ordering as in making the boat. Befides , when al 
this was done, 1 had my man to teach what belonged 
to its navigation: for though he very well nnderflood 
how to paddle a canoe along , he was an utter flran. 

H 6 


Digitized by Google 



180 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 


ger to a fail and a rudder , and was amazed when he 
faw me work the boat to and again in the fea , by 
them , and how the fail gibbed and filled this way or 
that way , as the courfe we failed changed. After 
fome time , and a little ufe , I made all thefe things 
very familiar to him , fo that he became an expert 
failor , except in relation to the compafs , and that I 
could make him underftand but little of.But.as it hap- 
pened, there were feldom occafion for it, there being 
but little cloudy weather, andfcarce ever any fog in 
thofe parts -,the ftars were always vifible in the night, 
and the shore perfpicuous by day, except in the rainy 
feafon , which confined every one to his habitation. 

Thus entered in the feven and twentieth year of 
my reign , or captivity , which you pleafe , ( the laft 
three of which , bleffed with the company of my man 
Friday , ought not to be reckoned ) , I kept the anni- 
verfary of my landing here, with the fame thankful- 
nefs to God , for his tender mercies , as I did before ; 
and certainly , as I had great caufe for a thankful ac- 
knowledgment for my deliverance at firft, I had 
much greater now , for fuch Angular and additional 
teftimonies of the care of Providence over me, in all 
my diftreffes both of body and mind , and the great 
hopes I had of being effeftually and fpeedily deliver- 
ed; for I had a ftrong impreffion upon my mind , 
that I should not be another year in this ifland. But , 
however , I ftill continued on with my husbandry , 
digging , planting , and fencing , as ufual ; gathering 
and curing my grapes , and doing all other things 
. that were neceffary. 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. xSi 

And now the rainy feafon beginning to come on , 
obliged me to keep the longer within doors •, but be- 
fore this , I brought my new veflel into the creek, 
where I had landed my rafts from the ship, and ha- 
ling her up to the shore , I ordered my man Friday to 
dig a dock fufficient to hold her in , and deep enough 
to give her water, wherein she might float; and then, 
when the tide was out, we madeaflrong dam crofs 
the end of it, to keep out the water; by which means 
she lay dry , as to the tide from the fea ; and to keep 
the rain from her , we thatched her over , as it were , 
with boughs of trees, like a houfe; and fo we waited 
forthe months of November andDecember,in which 
1 defigned to venture over the ocean. 

No fooner did the feafonable weather begin to draw 
near , but fo much was I elevated with this new de- 
figned adventure , than I daily prepared for the voy- 
age. The firft thing I thought on was , to lay by a 
certain quantity of provifions , as a fufficient ftore for 
fuchan expedition, intendingina weekor fortnight’s 
time to open the dock , and launch out the boat for 
that purpofe. But one morning- as I was very bufy 
upon fomething neceffary for this occafion , I called 
Friday to me , and bid him go to the fea shore , and 
fee if he could find a turtle or tortoife , a thing which 
we commonly had once a week , as much upon ac- 
count of the eggs, as for the fake of the flesh. He 
had not been long gone , but he came running back , 
as though he was purfued for life , and as itwere flew 
over my outward wall, or fence, like one that felt not 
the ground , or fteps he fet his feet on ; and before I 


\$i LIFE AND ADVENTURES 


had time to enquire the reafon of his precipitation , 
he cries out , O dear mafier , 0 forrow ! forrow ! Bad ! 
O bad! "Why , what’s the matter , Friday ? faid I, 0, 
yonder , yonder , faid he , there be one , two , or three 
canoes ! two , three. Surely (thought I ) there muftbe 
fix, by my man’s way of reckoning but , on a ftri&er 
inquiry , I found there were but three. Well.Friday, 
faid I , don’t be terrified , I warrant you we will not 
only defend ourfelves againft ’em , but kill the moil 
of thefe cruel favages. But though I comforted him 
in the beft manner I could, the poor creature trembled 
fo , that I fcarce knew what to do with him : O , Ma- 
fier , faid he, they come look Friday , cut pieces Friday * 
cut a me up. Why , Friday , faid I , they will eat me 
up as well as you , and my danger is as greatas yours. 
But fince it is fo , we mull refolve to fight for our 
lives. What fay you ? can you fight , Friday , ? Yes, 
faid he very faintly , me shoot , me kill what I can , but 
there come great many number. That’s no matter t 
faidl again, our guns will terrify thofe that we do not 
kilhl am very willing to fland by you to the laft drop 
of my blood. Now, tell me , if you will do the like by 
me , and obey my orders in whatfoever I command? 
Friday then anfwered, O mafier , me lofe life for you ,mc 
die when you bid die. Thus concluding all queft ions 
concerning his fidelity , immediately I fetched him a 
good dram ofrum , (of which I had been a very good 
husband ) , and gave it him to comfort his heart. 
After he had drank it , I ordered him to take the two 
fowling pieces , which we always carried , and toad 
them with large fwan shot, as big as-fmall piftol bul- 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1S5 

lets; then I took four muskets, and loaded them with 
two flugs , and five {mall bullets each ; charging my 
twopiftols each with a brace, I hung my great {'word, 
as cuftomary , naked to my fide , and gave Friday his 
hatchet , as a mod excellent weapon for defence. 

Thus prepared , I thought as well of myfelfas any 
knight errant that ever handled a fword and fpear. I 
took my perfpe&ive glafs , and went up to the fide of 
the hill, to fee what I could difcover; and I perceived 
veryfoon,by my glafs, that there were one and twen- 
ty favages , three prifoners , and three canoes •, and 
that their chief concern feemed to be the triumphant 
banquet upon the three poor human bodies , a thing 
which by this time I had obferved was very common 
with them. I alfo remarked , that they did not land 
at that place from whence Friday made his efcape , 
but nearer to the creek , where the shore was low , 
and where a thick wood came very clofe to the fea. 
My foul was then filled with indignation and abhor- 
rence at fuch inhuman wretches , which put a period 
to all my former thoughts in their vindication ; nei- 
ther would I give myfelf time to confider their right 
of conqueft , as I had done before ; but defeending 
from the mountain , I came down to Friday, and told 
him , I was refolved to go fpeedily to them and kill 
them all ; asking him again , in the fame breath , if he 
would ftand by me ? When by this time being reco- 
vered from his fright, and his fpirit much cheer ed with 
the dram I had given him , he was very pleafant ; yet 
ferioufly telling me, as he did before , When I bid die, 
he would die , 


1 84 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

And now it was , having fixed my refolution in fo 
flrong a manner , that nothing could divert my breaft 
ofirs uncommon fury. I immediately divided the 
loaded arms betwixt us. To my man Friday I gave a 
piftol to flick in his girdle , with three guns upon his 
shoulder , a weight too great I confefs to bear but 
whatmuft a poor king do, who has but onefoldier in 
the world ? But to shew I made him bear no more 
than what I would lay on myfelf , I ftuck the other 
pirtol in my girdle , and other three guns upon my 
shoulders •, nay fomething more , but that was like 
iEfop’s burden , a fmall bottle of rum , which was 
foon lightened to our exceeding refreshment. Thus 
we marched out , under a ponderous load of armour, 
like two invincible champions , with a quantity of 
powder and bullets to ftand our battle, and load again, 
when the pieces were discharged. And now my or- 
ders being to be obeyed , I charged Friday to keep 
clofe behind me , and not to ftir , or shoot, or attempt 
any thing till I commanded him-, and.in the interim, 
not to fpeak fo much as one word. It was in this or- 
derl fetched a compafs to the right hand , of near a 
mile , as well to get over the creek, as to attain the 
wood ; and by this, I thought to come within shot of 
them before I could be difeerned , as I found by my 
glafs , would not be difficult to accomplish. 

But how fickle and wavering is the mind of men-, 
even in our greateft fury and ftrongeft inclination.! 
For while Iwas taking this march , my refolution be- 
gan to abate, not through fear of their numbers, who 
were a parcel of naked unarmed wretches , but thefe 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOEf. 1S5 

reflexions occurred to my thoughts : What power 
was I commiflioned with , orwhatoccafion or necef- 
fity had I to go and imbrue my hands inhuman blood, 
and murder people that had neither done nor intend- 
ed to do me any wrong ? They were innocent in par- 
ticular as tome ; and their barbarous cuftom was not 
only their misfortune , but a fign that God had left 
them in the moft immenfe flupidity ; but yet did not 
warrant me to be a judge of their aXions, much lefs 
an executioner of his righteous judgments : That, on 
the contrary, whenever he thought fit, he would take 
vengeance on them himfelf , and punish them in a 
national way , according to their national crimes; but 
this was nothing at all to me , who had no concern 
with them. Indeed my man Friday might juftify him- 
felf , becaufe they were his declared enemies, of that 
very fame nation that went to facrifice him before; 
and , indeed, it was lawful for him to attack them , 
which I could not fay was fo with refpeX to me. So 
warmly did thefe things prefs upon my thoughts all 
the way I went, that I only refolved to place myfelf 
fo as to behold their, bloody entertainment, without 
falling upon them , ex cept fomething more than or- 
dinary, by God’s fpecial direXion, should oblige me 
thereto. 

Thus fixed in my refolution , I entered into the 
thick wood ( my man Friday following me clofe be- 
hind) , when , with all poflible warinefs and filence,I 
marched till I came to the skirt of it, on that fide 
which was the neareft to them, for only one end of the 
wood interpofed between me and them. Upon which 


Digitized by Google 


186 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 


I called very foftly to Friday j and shewing him a 
great tree , that was juft at the corner of the wood, I 
ordered him to repair thither, and bring me word, if 
he could plainly perceive their actions: Accordingly, 
he did as I commanded him ..and came back with 
this melancholy ftory,that they were allabout their 
fire , eating the flesh of one of their prifoners ; and 
that another lay bound upon the fand , a little diftant 
from them, which they defignedfor their next facri- 
fice j and this , he told me , was not one of their na- 
tion , but one of thofe very bearded men , who was 
driven by a ftorm into their country , and of whom 
hehad fooften talked to me.about. You may be fure, 
that upon hearing this , my foul was ready to fink 
within me ; when afcending up into a tree , I faw 
plainly , by my glafs , a white man , who lay upon 
the beach of the fea , with his hands and feet ty’d 
with flags, or things refembling rushes, being cover- 
ed with clothes , and feemed to be an European . 
From the tree where I took this profpeft, I perceived 
another tree , and a thicket beyond it , about fifty 
yards nearer to them, than where I was ; which , by 
taking a lmall circle round , I might come at undif- 
covered , and then I should be within half a shot of 
thefe devourers. And this confideration alone.to be 
more perfe&ly revenged upon them, made me with- 
hold my paflion, though I was enraged to the higheft 
/ degree imaginable ; when going back about twenty 
paces ,~I got behind fome bushes, which heldall the 
way till I came to the other tree •, and then I afcend- 
ed to a little riling ground, not above eighteen yards 


Digiti; 


j by Google 


* 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 187 

diftance , and there I had a full view of thefe crea- 
tures , and I could perceive all their actions. 

Such a light did then appear, as obliged me not to 
lofe a moment’s time. No lefs than nineteen of thefe 
dreadful wretches fat upon the ground, clofe huddled 
together, exprefling all the delight imaginable at fo 
barbarous an entertainment ; and they had juftfent 
other two to murder this poor unhappy Chriftian, and 
bring him limb by limb to their fire ; for they were 
juft then going to untie the bands from his feet , in 
order for death, as fetters are knocked off the feet of 
malefactors before they go to the place of execution. 
Hereupon , immediately turning to my man , Now , 
Friday , faid I , mind what I fay , f iil in nothing , but 
do exaCtly as you fee me do. All which he promi- 
sing he would perform, I fet down one of my muskets, 
and the fowling piece upon the ground, and Friday 
did the fame by his j and with the other musket I 
took my aim at thefavages, bidding him do the like : 
Are you ready, faid I? Yes , majler , faid he. "Why 
then fire at them , faid I ; and that very moment I 
gave fire likewife. 

I only killed one , and wounded two ; but my man 
Friday , taking his aim much better than I , killed 
two, and wounded three. You may be fure they 
were in a dreadful confternation , at fuch an unex- 
pected difafter •, and thofe who yethad'efcaped our 
penetrating shot , immediately jumped upon their 
feet, but were in fuch confufion, that they knew not 
which way to run orlookjnotknowing from whence 
their destruction came. We then threw down our 


Digitized by Google 


1 


i8S LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

pieces , and took up others , giving a fecond dreadful 
volley, but as they were loaded only with fwan-shot, 
or fmall piftol bullets, we perceived only two of them 
fall •, though many were wounded , who run yelling 
and fcreaming about like mad creatures. Now, Fri- 
day , faid I , lay down your piece , and take up the 
xnusket , and follow me. He did fo , with great cou- 
rage, whenshewing ourfelves to the fa vages, wegave a 
great shout, and made direftly to the poor vi£Hm,who 
would have been facrified , had not our firft fire obli- 
ged the butchers , with three others.to jump into a 
canoe. By my order , Friday fired at them , at which 
shot Ithoughthe had killed them all, by reafon of their 
falling to the bottom of the boat ; however, he killed 
two, and mortally woundeda third. In the mean time, 
,1 cut the flags that tied the hands andfeetof the poor 
creature , and lifting him up , asked him in the Por- 
tuguife tongue , Tfhat he was ? He anfwered me in 
Latin , Chriflianus ; but fo very weak and faint , that 
he could fcarce ftand or fpeak. Immediately I gave 
him a dram , and a piece of bread to bherish him , 
and asked him, what countryman he was ? He faid , 
Efpaniola , and then uttered all the thankfulnefs 
imaginable for his deliverance. Signior ,( faid I , 
with as much Spanish as I was matter of) , let us 
talk afterwards, but fight now; here, take this fword 
and piftol , and do what you can. And, indeed, he 
did fo with fuch courage and intrepidity, that he cut 
two of them to pieces in an inftant , the favages not 
having the power to fly for their lives. I ordered Fri- 
day to run for thofe pieces we had left at the tree > 


Digitized by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1S9 

Which he brought me with great fwiftnefs , and then 
I gave him my musket , while I loaded the reft. But 
now there happened a fierce encounter between the 
Spaniard and one of the favages , who had made at 
.him with one of their wooden fwords •, and though 
the former was as brave as could be expe&ed,having 
twice wounded his enemy in the head ; yet, being 
weak and faint , the Indian had thrown him upon the 
ground , and was wrefting my fword out of his hand, 
which the Spaniard very wifely quitting drew out his 
piftol ,and shot him through the body before I could 
come near him though I was running to his affift- 
ance. As to Friday , he purfued the flying wretches 
with his hatchet, difpatching three , but the reft were 
too nimble for him. The Spaniard taking one of the 
fowling-pieces, wounded two, who running into the 
wood , Friday purfued and killed one ; but the other , 
notwithftanding his wounds , plunged himfelf into 
the fea , and fwam to thofe two who were left in the 
canoe, which.with one wounded, were all thatefcaped 
out of one and twenty. The account is as follows : 


Killed at firfi shot from the tree 3 

At the fccond shot, . 

By Friday in the boat 

Ditto , of thofe firjl wounded ... 2 

Ditto , in the wood , I 

- By the Spaniard 3 


Killed or died of their wounds 4 

Ef taped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not fain , 4 


Total 21 


190 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

The favages in the canoe worked very hard to get 
out of our reach , and Friday was as eager in pur- 
fuing them •, and indeed , I was no lefs anxious 
about their efcape , left , after the news had been 
carried to their people , they should return in mul- 
titudes , and deftroy us. So being refolved to pur- 
file them , I jumped into one of their canoes , and 
bid Friday follow me ; but no fooner was I in, than , 
to my furprife, I found another poor creature, bound 
hand and foot for the (laughter , juft as the Spaniard 
had been , with very little life in him. Immediately 
I unbound him , and would have helped him up; but 
he could neither ftand nor fpeak , but groaned fo pi- 
teoufly,as thinking he was only unbound in order to be 
flain. Hereupon I bidFriday fpeak to him, and tell him 
of his deliverance jwhen pulling out my bottle,I made 
the poor wretch drink a dram, which, with the joyful 
news he had received, fo revived his heart,thathe fat 
up in the boat. As foon as Friday began to hear him 
fpeak , and look more fully in his face, it would have 
moved any one to tears to perceive his uncommon; 
tranfports of joy ; for he kifled , embraced him , 
hugged him , cried , laughed , halloed, jumped about, 
danced , fung , then cried again , wrung his hands , 
bent his face and head , then fung and jumped about 
again, like a diftrafted creature: fo that it was a 
great while before I could make him fpeak to me , 
or tell me what was the matter with him ; but 
when he came to the liberty of his fpeech , at laft he 
told me it was his father. 

Here-iudeedl was infinitely moved to fee that du« 


OF ROBINSON CR.USOE. 


I 9 t 

tifal and tender affe&ion this poor favage had to this 
aged parent.- He would lit down by him in the boat , 
open his bread, and hold his father’s head clofe to his 
bofom , half an hour together, to cherish it : then he 
took his arms and ancles , which were ftiff and num- 
bed with binding , and chafed and rubbed them with 
his hand •, by which means , perceiving what the cafe 
was , I gave him fome rum , which proved of great 
benefit to him. 

While we were bufy in this a&ion,the favages had 
gotten almoft out of light •, and happy it was we did 
hot purfue them •, For there arofe from the north- 
weft, which continued all night long, fuch a violent 
{form , that I could not fuppofe other wife but that they 
were all drowned. After this , I called Friday to me, 
and asked him , if he had given his father any bread ? 
He shook his head , and faid , None , not one bit , me 
eat a up all ; fo I gave him a cake of bread out of a 
little pouch I carried for this end. I likewife gave 
him a dram for himfelf , and two or three bunches of 
railins for his father. Both thefe he carried to him, 
for he would make him drink the dram , to comfort 
him. 

Away he then runs out of the boat as if he was be- 
witched , with fuch an extraordinary fwiftnefs, that 
he was out of fight as it were in an inftaftt ; but , 
at his return , I perceived him llacken his pace , be- 
caufe he had fomething in his hand. And this I 
found to be , as he approached nearer , an earthen 
jug with fome water to his father , with two more 
cakes of bread , which he delivered into my hands. 


X 9 1 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Being very thirfty myfelf, I drank fome of the wa- 
ter , of which when his father had drunk fufficient- 
ly , it more revived his fpirits than all the rum I had 
given him. 

I then called Friday to me , and ordered him to 
carry the Spaniard one of the cakes, andfome water, 
who was repofing himfelf upon a green place under 
the shade of a tree , but fo weak , that though he 
exerted himfelf , he could not Hand upon his feet. 
Upon which I ordered Friday to rub and bathe his 
ancles with rum, as lid* did his father’s. But every 
minute he was empIoyed\, in this , he would call a 
wishful eye towards the boat , where he left his fa- 
ther fitting ; who fuddenly difappearing , he flew 
like lightning to him , and finding he only laid him- 
felf down to eafe his limbs., he returned back to 
me prefently, and then I fpoke to the Spaniard to 
let Friday help him , ,and lead him to the boat, in 
order to be conveyed to my dwelling , where I would 
take care of him. Upon which Friday took him 
upon his back , and fo carried him to the canoe , 
fetting him clofe by his father ; and prefently ftep- 
ping out again , launched the boat off, and paddled 
it along the shore fafter than I could walk , though 
the wind blew very hard too-, and having brought 
them fafe to the creek , away he runs to fetch the 
other canoe , which he brought to the creek al- 
moft as foom-as I got to it by land , when wafting 
me over , he took our new guefts out of the boat 
but fo weak were they , that I was forced to make 
a kind of a hand-barrow ; and when I came to my 

caftle. 




OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 195 

caftle , not being willing to make an entrance into 
my wall , we made them a handfome tent , covered 
with old fails ,and boughs of trees, making two good 
beds of rice ftraw , with blankets to lie upon and 
cover them. Thus , like an abfolute king , over 
fubje&s who owed their lives to me , I thought 
myfelf very confiderable , efpecially as I had now 
three religions in my kingdom , my man Friday be- 
ing a Proteftant , his father a Pagan , and the Spa- 
niard a Papift : but I gave liberty of confcience to 
them all. 

To get provifions for my poor weak fubjedls , I 
ordered Friday to kill me a yearling goat *, which 
when he had dong , I cut off the hinder quarters, and 
chopping it into fmall pieces , boiled and ftewed it , 
putting barley and rice into the broth. This I car- 
ried into their tent , fet a table , dined with them my- 
felf, and encouraged them. Friday was my inter- 
preter to his father , and indeed to the Spaniard too , 
who fpoke the language of the favages pretty well. 
After dinner l ordered Friday to fetch home all our 
arms from the field of battle, and the next day to 
bury the dead bodies , which he did accordingly. 

And now I made Friday enquire of his father whe- 
ther he thought thofe favages had efcaped the late 
ftorm in their canoe ;and if fo , whether they would 
not return with a power too great for us to refill > 
He anfwered , that he thought it impoflible they 
could outlive the ftorm •, or if they were driven 
fouthwardly, they would come to a land where they 
would as certainly be devoured , as if they wer« 

1 


Digitized by GooqI( 


194 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

drowned iu the fea. And fuppofe they had attained 
their own country , the ftrangenefs of their fatal and 
bloody attack , would make them tell their people , 
that the reft of them were killed by thunder and 
lightening , not by the hand of man , but by two. 
heavenly fpirits (meaning Friday andme) who where 
fent from above to deftroy them. And this , he faid , 
he knew , becaufe he heard them fay the fame to one 
another. And indeed he was in the right on’t ; for I 
have heard lince , that thefe four men gave out, that 
whoever went to that inchanted ifland.would be de- 
ftroyed by fire from the gods. 

Nocanoes appearing fome time after,as I expe&ed, 
my appreher.fions ceafed : inftead of which my form* 
er thoughts of a voyage took place , efpecially when. 
Friday's father affured me I should have good u- 
fage in his nation. As to the Spaniard , he told me » 
that fixteen morfe of his countrymen, andPortu- 
guefe , who had been shipwrecked , made their e- 
fcape thither j that though they were in union with 
the favages, yet they were very miferable for want 
of provifions and other neceflaries. When I asked 
him about the particulars of his voyage , he an- 
fwered , that their ship was bound from Rio dc la 
Flata to the Havannah ; that when the ship was loft, 
only five men perished in the ocean the reft having 
faved themfelvesinthe boat, were now landed on the 
main continent. And what do they intend to do 
there ? faid I. He replied , they have concerted mea- 
fures to efcape , by building a veffel , but that they 
trad neither tools nor provifions , fo that all their de- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 19? 

figns came to nothing. Suppofing ( faid I ) I should 
make a propofal , and invite them here , -would they 
not carry me prifoner to New Spain ? He anfwered r 
noj for the knew them to befuch honeftmen, as 
would fcorn to aft fuch inhuman bafenefs to their de- 
liverer : Thatif Ipleafed, he andtheoldfavage would 
go over to them , talk with them about it , and bring 
me an anfwer: That they should all fwear fidelity to 
me as their leader , upon the holy facrament ; and v 
for his part , he would not only do the fame , but 
ftand by me to the laft drop of his blood,should there 
fie occafion. 

; Thefe folemn affurances made me refolve to grant 
them relief, and to fend thefe two over for that 
purpofe : but when every thing.was ready, the Spa- 
niard raifed an objeftion , which carried a great deal 
of weight in it: You know , Sir, faid he, that ha- 
ving been fome time with you , I cannot but be fenfiblc 
of your flock of rice and corn , fufpcimt , perhaps , for us 
at prefent , but not for them , should they come overpre - 
fently j much lefs to victual a veffel for an intended 
vpyage. W ant might be as great an occafion for them 
to difagree and rebel , as the children of Ifrael did a- 
gainft God himfelf , when they wanted bread in the 
wiLdernefs, And, therefore , my advice is , to wait ano- 
ther harvefl, and. in the mean time cultivate and im- 
prove fome more land , whereby we may have plenty of 
pxoviflons , in order to execute our defign. 

This advice of the Spaniard’s I approved extreme- 
ly •, and fo fatisfied was I of his fidelity, thatlefteem- 
ed him , eves after. And thus we all four went to 

u 



Digitized by Googl 


196 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

work upon fome more land , and againft feed-time 
•^e had gotten fo much cured and trimmed up,fuffici- 
ent to fow 22 bushels of barley on , and 16 jars of 
rice, which was in short all the feed we had to fpare. 
As we were four in number, and by this time all in 
good health, we feared not a hundred Indians, should- 
they venture to attack us : and while the corn was 
growing , I pitched upon fome trees , fit to build us a 
large veffel , in cafe the Spaniards came over ; which 
being marked , I ordered Friday and his father to cut 
them down , appointing the Spaniard who was now 
my privy counfellor, to overfee and direft the work. 
I Iikewife encreafed my flocks of goats , by shooting 
the wild dams , and bringing home their kids to my : 
inclofure : Nor did I neglett the grape-feafon , but 
cured them as ufual , though I had fuch a quantity 
now , as would have filled 80 barrels with raifins. 
And thus, all of us being employed, they in working, 
and I in providing for them , till harveft came , God 
Almighty bleffed the encreafe of it fo much, that from 
twenty-two bushels of barley, we threshed out two 
hundred and twenty , and the like quantity of rice , 
fufficient to vi&ual a ship fit to carry me and all the 
Spaniards to any part of America. 

Thus the principal obje&ion being anfwered , by 
a fufficient flock of provifion , I fent my two am- 
bafladors over to the main - land , with a regal au- 
thority to adminifter the oaths of allegiance and 
fidelity , and have an inftrument figned under their 
hands, though I never asked Whether they had pen, 
ink, or paper *, when giving each of them a musket,- 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ic , 7 

t 

eight charges of powder and ball , and provifion e- 
nough for eight days , they failed away with a fair 
gale , on a day when the moon was at full. 

Scarce a fortnight had palled over my head ; but , 
impatient for their return , I laid me down to fleep 
one morning , when a ftrange accident happened, 
which was ushered in by my man’s coming run- 
ning to me, and calling aloud, Mafter , mafter , they 
art come , they are come. Upon which , not dream- 
ing of any danger , out I jumped from my bed , put 
on my clothes , and hurried through my little grove’, 
when looking towards the fea , I perceived a boat 
about a league and a half diftant , {landing in for 
the shore , with the wind fair. I beheld they did 
not come from the fide where the land lay on , but 
from the fouthermoft end of the ifland: So thefe 
being none of the people we wanted , I ordered Fri- 
day to lie fiill , till fuch time as I came down from 
the mountain, which, with my ladder, I now amend- 
ed, in order to difeover more fully what they were : 
and now, with the help of my perfpedlive glafs , 
plainly perceived an English ship, which I conclu- 
ded it to be, by the fashion of its long boat-, ai. d. which 
filled me with fuch uncommon tranfports of joy , that 
I cannot tell how to deferibe ; and yet fome fecret 
doubts hung about me , proceeding from I know not 
what caufe , as though I had reafon to be upon my 
guard. And , indeed , I would have no man contemn 
the fecret hints and intimations of danger , which 
very often are given , when he may imagine there is 
no poflibility of its being real ; for , had not I been 

13 



198 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

■warned by this filent admonition , I had been m a 
worfe fituation than before , and perhaps inevitably 
ruined. 

Not long it was , before I perceived the boat to 
approach the shore , as though they Jooked for a 
place where they might conveniently land ; and at 
laft they ran their boat on shore upon the beach , 
about half a mile’s diftance ; which proved fo mucji 
the happier for me , fince , had they come into the 
creek , they had landed juft at my door , and might 
not only have forced me out of my caftle , but plun- 
dered me of all I had in the world. Now I was fully 
convinced they were all Englishmen , three of which 
were unarmed and bound; when immediately the firft 
four or five leaped on shore, and took thofe three out 
of the boat as prifoners ; one of whom I could per- 
ceive ufed the moft pallionate geftures of entreaty , 
affliction , and defpair , while the others , in a leffer 
degree , shewed ahundance of concern. 

Not knowing the meaning of this , I was very 
much aftonished , and I beckoned to Friday , who was 
below , to afcend the mountain , and likewife view 
this fight. O mafler , fays he to me , you fee English 
mans eat prifoners as well as Savage mans. And do you 
think they will eat them , Friday ? faid I. Yes , faid 
Friday , they eat a all up. No , no , faid I , Friday , I 
am much more concerned left they murder them ; 
but as for eating them up , that I am fure they will 
never do. 

And now I not only lamented my misfortune in 
not having the Spaniard and Savage with me , but 


Digitized by Google 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. m 

alfo that I could not come within shot of them un- 
perceived , ( they having no fire arms among them ) 
and fave thefe three men, whom I thought they were 
going to kill with their fwords. But fome comfort 
it was to me, that I perceived they were fet at liber- 
ty to go where they pleafed , the rafcally feamen 
fcattering about as though they had a mind to fee 
the place : and fo long did they negligently ramble, 
that the tide had ebbed fo low , as to leave the boat 
aground. Nor were the two men that were in her 
more circumfpeft : for having drunk a little too 
much liquor , they fell faft afleep •, buc one of them 
waking before the other , and perceiving the boat 
too fed aground for his ftrength to move it , he hal- 
looed out to the reft , who made all poffible expedi* 
tion to come to him : but , as Providence ordered 
it, all their force was ineffc&ual to launch her , when 
I could hear them fpeak to one another , Why , let 
her alone , Jack , can’t ye , she'll float next tide ; by 
which words I was fully convinced they were my 
own countrymen. All this while I lay very quiet , 
as being fully fenfible it could be no lefs than ten 
hours before the boat would be afloat , and then it 
would be fo dark, as that they could not eafvly per- 
ceive me , by which means I should be at more li- 
berty to hear their talk , and obferve all their mo- 
tions : not but that I prepared for my defence : yet 
as I had now another fort of enemies to combat with, 
I afted with more caution. I took two fufees on 
my shoulders , and gave Friday three muskets ; be- 
sides , my formidable goat-skin coat , and mohftrous 

14 


• -Bigitized by Google 



aoo LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

cap, made me look as fierce and terrible as Hercules 
of old, efpecially when two piftols were ftuck in my 
belt , and my naked fword hanging by my fide. 

It was my defign at firft not to make any attempt 
till it was dark •, but it being now two o’clock , in 
the very heat of the day , the failors were all ftrag- 
gling into the woods , and undoubtedly were lain 
down to fleep. The three poor diftreffed creatures , 
too anxious to get any repofe , were , however , 
feated under the shade of a great tree , about a 
quarter of a mile from me. Upon which , without 
any more ado , I approached towards them, with my 
man following behind me , and , before I was percei- 
ved , I called aloud to them in Spanish , What are ye M 
Gentlemen ? 

At thefe words , they ftarted up in great confu- 
flon , when they beheld the ftrange figure I made ; 
they returned no anfwer,but feemed asifthey would 
fly from me ; Gentlemen , (faidl in English ) don’t be 
afraid, perhaps you have a friend nearer than you expect* 
He mull be from heaven, faid one of them , gravely 
pulling off his hat , for we are paft all help in this 
world. All help is from Heaven , faid I •, but , Sir , as 
1 have perceived every action between you and thefe brutes 
fince your landing , only inform me how to affift you , and 
I will do it to the utmoft of my power. 

Am I talking with God or man , faid he , in melt- 
ing tears. Are you of human kind , or an angel ? 
Sir , faid l , my poor habit may tell you 1 am a man i 
and an Englishman , willing to affift you , having but 
this fervant only i. here are arms and ammunition : tell 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 2 ot 

freely your condition , can we fave you ? The ftory , 
faid he , is too long to relate , fince our butchers 
are fo near: but, Sir, I was matter of that ship, 
my men have mutinied , and it is a favour they have 
put my mate , this paffenger, and me, on shore with- 
out murdering us , though we expeft nothing but 
perishing here. Are your enemies gone ? faid I. No , 
replied he ( pointing to a thicket ) , there they lie , 
while my heart trembles, left, having fecn and heard 
us, they should murder us all. Have they fire-arms ? 
faid I. They have but two pieces , faid he , one of 
which is left in the boat. He alfo told me , there 
were two enormous villains among them , that were 
the authors of this mutiny, who, if they were killed 
or feized , might induce the reft to return to their 
obedience. Well, well, faid I, let us retire farther 
under the covering of the woods ; and there it was I 
made thefe conditions with him. 

I. That, while they ftaid in the ittand, they should 
not pretend to any authority ; but should entirely 
comform to my orders, and return me the arms which 
I should put into their hands. 

II. That , if the ship was recovered , they should 
afford Friday and myfelf our paffage gratis to Eng- 
land. 

When he had given me all the fatisfa&ion I could 
deftre , I gave him and his two companions each of 
them a gun , with powder and ball fufHcient , advi- 
fing them to fire upon them as they lay fteeping. 
The captain modeftly faid , that he was forty to kill 
them ; though , on the other hand , to let thefe vil- 

IJ 


Digitized by Google 


201 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

lains efcape , who were the authors of his mifery , 
might be the ruin of us all. Well , faidhe , do as you 
think fit : and fo accordingly I fired , killing one of 
the captain’s chiefeft enemies , and wounding the 
other, who eagerly called for afliftance; but the cap- 
tain (who had referved his piece) coming up to 
him , Sirrah , faid he , ’tis too late to call for ajfijl - 
once , you should, rather cry to God to pardon your vil- 
lany ; and fo knocked him down with the flock of 
his gun : three others were alfo flightly wounded , 
who, at my approach, cried out for mercy. This, the 
captain granted , upon condition that they would 
fwear to be true to him in recovering the ship, which 
they folemnly did: however, I obliged the captain to 
keep them bound. After which I fent Friday and the 
captain’s mate to fecure the boat, and bring away the 
oars and fail •, when , at their return , three men co- 
ming back , and feeing their late diftrefled captain , 
now their conqueror , fubmitted to be bound alfo. 
And then it was , that having more liberty, I related 
the adventures of my whole life , which he heard 
with a ferious and wonderful attention. After this , 
I carried him and his two companions into my little 
fortified caftle, shewed them all my conveniences, 
and refreshed them with fuch provifions as I could 
afford. When this was over , we began to confider 
about regaining the ship : he faid , that there were 
twenty-fix hands on board, who, knowing their lives 
were forfeited by the law , for confpiracy and mu- 
tiny , were fo very hardened , that it would be dan- 
gerous for our final! company to attack them. This 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 203 

Was a reafonable inference , indeed ; but fomething 
We muft refolve on , and immediately put in exe- 
cution : we , therefore , heaved the boat upon the 
beach fo high that she could not shoot off at high 
water mark , and broke a hole in her not eafily to bO 
flopped •, fo that all the fignals they gave for the 
boat to come on board were in vain. This obliged 
them to fend another boat ashore , With ten men 
armed, whofe faces the captain plainly defcried , the 
boatfwain being the chief officer ; but he faid there 
were three honeft lads among them , Who were for- 
ced into the confpiracy. Hereupon I gave him fresh 
courage (for I had perceived he was in concern) •, in 
the mean while fecuring our prifoners, except two, 
whom we took to our affiftance,we thought ourfel ve$ 
able enough to adventure a battle. "When the failorS 
landed, and beheld their boat in that condition, they 
not only hallooed, but fired, for their companions to 
hear, yet they received no anfwer. This (truck them 
with horror and amazement , thinking their compa- 
nions were murdered , they made as if they would 
return to the ship. I could perceive the captain’s 
countenance change at this , till , of a fudden thr?e 
men were ordered to look after the boat , while the 
Other feven leapt on shore, in order to fearch for their 
companions : and , indeed , they came to the brow of 
the hill , near my ancient caftle , from whence they 
Could fee to a great diftance in the woods , and there 
shouting and hallooing till tired and weary , they ae 
length feated themfelves under a fpreading tree. My 
opinion was , that nothing could be done rill night ; 

16 




j by Google 


204 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

when I might ufe fome artifice to get them all out of 
the boat •, but, of a fudden, they ftarted up, and made 
to the fea fide *, hereupon I ordered Friday and the 
captain’s mate to go over the creek, and halloo as loud 
as they could, and fo decoying them into the woods* 
come round to me again. And this , indeed , had good 
effeft •, for they followed the noife, till coming weft- 
ward to the creek, they called for their boat to carry 
them over , and taking one of the men out of her , 
left two to look after her, having faftened her to the 
ftump of a little tree on shore. Hereupon immedi- 
ately the captain and our party palling the creek, out 
of their fight, we furprifedthem both, by the captain’s 
knocking down one.and ordering the other to furren- 
der upon pain of death, and who, being the honefteft 
of them all , fincerely joined with us. By this time it 
was pretty late •, when , the reft , returning to their 
boat , which they found aground in the creek * the 
tide out , and the men gone , they ran about , wring- 
ing their hands , crying it was an inchanted ifland , 
and that they should be all murdered by fpirits or 
devils. My men would willingly have fallen upon 
them , but I would not agree to hazard any of our 
party. But, to be more certain, Friday and the 
captain crawled upon their hands and feet , as near 
as poflible*, and , when the boatfwain approached in 
fight , fo eager was the captain , that he fired , and 
killed him on the fpot j Friday wounded the next 
man , and a third ran away. Hereupon I advanced 
with my whole army ; and , it being dark , I ordered 
the men we had furprifed in the boat, to call them. 


1 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. aoj 

by their names , and to parley with them. Accord- 
ingly he called out aloud , Tom Smith , Tom Smith ! 
He anfwered , Who’s that ? Robinfon ! anfwered the 
Other, For God’s fake + Tom, furrender immediately , 
or you’re all dead men. Who muft we furrender to ? 
fays Smith. To our captain and ffty men here , who 
have taken me prifoner , wounded Will Frye , and kill- 
ed the boatfwain. Shall we have quarter then ? faid 
he. Hereupon the captain calls out , You , Smith , 
you know my voice , furrender immediately , and you 
shall aU. have your lives granted , except Will. Atkins. 
Hereupon Atkins cries out. What have 1 done , Cap- 
tain , more than the rejl , who have been as bad as me ? 
but that was a lie , for he was the perfon that laid 
hold of him , and bound him. However , he was or- 
dered to fubmit to the governor’s mercy , for fuch 
was I called. And fo , laying down their arms , we 
bound them all , and feized on their boat. 

After this , the captain expoftulated with them , 
telling them , that the governor was an Englishman, 
who might execute them there-, but he thought they 
would be fent to England, except Will. Atkins , who 
was ordered to prepare for death , next morning. 
Hereupon Atkins implored the captain to intercede 
for his life , and the reft begged that they might not 
be fent to England. This anfwered our projeft for 
feizing the ship. For afrer fending Atkins, and two 
of the worft , faft bound to the cave , and the r ft 
being committed to my bower , I fent the captain to 
treat with them in the governor’s name, offering 
fhem pardon if they would aflift in tecovering th$ 


1 



-ii. ' . D igitized by Google | 


io 6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ship. Upon -which they all promifed to ftandbyhinl 
till the laftdropof their blood; and whoever afted 
treacheroufly , should be hanged in chains upon the 
beach. They were all releafed on thefe aflurances 
and then the captain repaired the other boat , making 
his paffenger captain of her, and gave him four men 
well armed ; while himfelf , his mate , and five 
more , went in the other boat. By midnight they 
came within call of the ship, when the captain or- 
dered Robinfon- to hail her , and tell them , that with 
great difficulty they had found the men at laft. But 
while they were difcourfing , the captain , his mate, 
and the reft entered, and knocked down the fecond 
mate and carpenter , fecured thofe that were upon 
the deck , by putting them under hatches , while the 
other boat’s crew entered and fecured the forecaftle; 
they then broke into the round-houfe , where the 
mate , after fome refiftance , shot the pirate captain 
through the head , upon which all the reft yielded 
themfelves prifoners. And thus the ship being re- 
covered , the joyful fignal was fired , which I heard 
with the greateft joy imaginable : nor was it long be- 
fore they brought the ship to an anchor at the creek’s 
mouth , where coming to me unawares , There , fays 
he , my dearefi friend and deliverer, thtre is your ship , 
and we are your fcrv ants i a comfort fo unfpeakable, 
as made me fwoon in his arms , while , with grati- 
tude to heaven > we were tenderly embracing each 
other. 

Nothing now remaining , but to confult what we 
should do with the prisoners , whom he thought 4 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 107 

was not fafe to take on board. Hereupon , concert- 
ing with the captain, I dreffed myfelf in one othis 
fuits , and fending for them , told them , That as I 
.was going to leave the ifland with all my people , i£ 
they would tarry there, their lives should be fparedy 
if not , they should be hanged at the firft port they 
came at. They agreed to ftay. Hereupon I told 
them my whole Rory, charging them to be kind to 
the Spaniards that were expe&ed , gave them all my 
arms , and informing them of every thing neceflary 
for their fubfiftence , I and my man Friday went on 
hoard. But the next morning two of the men came 
fwimming to the ship’s fide , defiring the captain to 
take them on board , though he hanged them after- 
wards , complaining mightily how barbaroufly the 
others ufed them. Upon which I prevailed with the 
captain to take them inland being feverely whipt and 
pickled , they proved more honeft for the future. 
And fo I bid farewell to this ifland , carrying along 
with me my money, my parrot, umbrella , and goat- 
skin cap-, fetting fail December 12. 16S6, after 
.twenty eight years , two months , and nineteen days 
refidence , that fame day and month that I efcaped 
.from Salee, landing in England , June 11. 1687 , after 
five and thirty years abfence from my own country. 
Which rendered me altogether a ftranger there. 

Here I found my firft captain’s widow alive, who 
had buried a fecond husband , but in very mean cir- 
oumftances , and whom I made mighty eafy upon 
jny account. Soon after I went down to Yorkshire , 
.yhere all jny family were expired , except two 


208 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fitters , and as many of one of my brother’s children^ 

I found no provifion had been made for me , they 
concluding I had been long flnce dead ; fo that I 
was but in a very {lender ftation. Indeed the cap- 
tain did me a great kindnefs , by his report to the 
owners, how I had delivered their ship on the defo- 
late ittand , upon which they made me a prefent of 
aoo /. Sterling. I next went to Lifbon , taking my 
man Friday with me , and there arriving in April , I 
met the Portuguefe captain , who had taken me on 
board on the African coaft ; but being ancient , he 
had left off the fea , and rettgned all his bufinefs to 
his fon , who followed the Brazil trade. So altered 
both of us were , that we did not know each other at 
firft , till I difeovered myfelf more fully to him. Af- 
ter a few embraces , I began to enquire of my con- 
cerns ; and then the old gentleman told me , that it * 
was nine years lince he had been at Brazil, where my 
partner was then living , but my truttees were both 
dead ; that he believed I should have a good account 
of the prodwft of my plantation ; that the imagina- 
tion of my being lott ,h3d obliged my truttees to give 
an ettimate of my share to the procurator-fifcal.who, 
in cafe of my not returning , had given one third to 
the king , and the reft to the monaftery of St Augu- 
ftine-, but if I put in my claim , or any one for me’, 
it would be returned , except the yearly produft, 
which was given to the poor. I then defired him to 
tell me what improvement he thought had been madfe 
of my plantation , and whether he imagined it was 
s«rorth my while to look after .it ? He anfwered , his 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 109 

did not know how much it was improved ; but this 
he was certain of, that my partner was grown vaftiy 
rich upon Jys half of it •, and that he had been in- 
formed , that the king had 200 moidores per annum 
for his third part. He added , that the furvivors of 
my truftees were perfons of an ingenuous charaftcr j 
that my partner could witnefs my title , my name 
being regiftered in the country , by which means I 
should indifputably recover confiderable fums of 
money. But , anfwered I , how could my truftees 
difpofe of my effefts, when J made you only my heir? 
This , he faid,was true •, but, there being no affidavit 
made of my death, he could not aft as my executor. 
However, he had ordered his fon ( then at Brazil) to 
aft by procuration upon my account, and- he had ta- 
ken poffeflion of my fugar-houfe , having accounted 
himfelf for eight years with my partner and truftees 
for the profits, of which he would give me a very 
good account. 

And , indeed , this he performed very faithfully , in 
a few days , making himfelf indebted to me 470 moi- 
dores of gold , over and above what had been loft at 
fea , after I had left the place. And then he re- 
counted to me what misfortunes he had gone through 
which forced my money out of his hands to buy 
part in a new ship : but , fays he ,you shall not want , 
take this , and when my fon returns , every farthing 
shall be paid you. Upon which he put into my hand 
a purfe of 1 jo moidores in gold, as likewife the inftru- 
ment , containing the title to the ship which his fon 
was in , and which he offered as fecurity for the re- 




Digitized by Google 


Ho LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

mainder. But really -when I law fo much goodnefs , 
generofity , tendernefs.and real honefiy , I had not 
the heart to accept it , for fear he should ftraiten 
himfelf upon my account. It is true , faid he , it may 
be fo 'y. but then the money is yours , not mine , and you 
may have the greatefi occafion for it. However , I 
returned fifty of them back again , promifing , that 
I would freely give him the other hundred when I 
got my effetts in my hands , and that I defigned to 
go myfelf for that purpofe. But he told me he 
could fave me that trouble, and fo caufed me to en- 
ter my name , with a public notary , as likewife my 
affidavit , with a procuration affixed to it ; and this 
he ordered me to fend in a letter to one of his ac- 
quaintance , a merchant in Brazil : and , indeed , no- 

• thing could be more faithfully and honourably ob- 
ferved-, for, in feven months time , I hada very faith- 
ful account of all my effe&s , what fums of money 
were raifed , what expended , and what remained for 
my ufe : in a word, I found myfelf to be worth 5 000 /. 
Sterling, and 1000/. per annum. Nor was this all ; 
for my partner congratulated me upon my being a- 
live , telling me how much my plantation was im- 
proved, what negroes were at work, and how many 
Avc Marias he had faid to the virgin Mary for my 
prefervation, defiring me to accept kindly fome pre- 
fents he had fentme,which I found shewed the great- 
efi generofity. 

No fooner did the ship arrive,, but I rewarded my 1 
faithful captain , by returning him the hundred moi* 
dores; and not only forgiving him all he owed me, 

• * 


Digitized by Googl 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. an 

I allowed him yearly a hundred more, and fifty to his 
fon , during their lives. And now being refolved to 
450 to England : I returned letters of thanks to the 
prior of St Auguftine , and in particular to my old 
partner , with very Ratable prefents. By the capain’s 
advice , I was perfuaded to go by land to Calais , 
and there take paffage for England ; when , as it hap- 
. pened,I got a young English gentleman, a merchant’s 
fon at Lisbon , to accompany me, together with two 
English , and two Portuguefe gentlemen-, fo that 
with a Portuguefe fervant, an English failor,and my 
.-man Friday , there were nine of us in number. 

. Thus armed and equipped, we fet out , and came to 
Madrid, when the fummer decaying , we haftenH to 
Navarre , where we were informed , that there was 
Scarcely any palling , by reafon of the prodigious 
quantity of fnow ; fo that we were obliged to abide 
■near twenty days at Pampeluna,and at laft to take 
.a guide to conduft us fafe towards Tholoufe. And 
;now twelve other gentlemen joining with us , toge- 
ther with their fervants, we had a very jolly company. 
Away our guide led us by the frightful mountains,and 
through fo many intricate mazes and windings , that 
we infenlibly paffed them, which , as we travelled 
along, ushered us into the profpeft of the fruitful and 
charming provinces of Languedoc and Gafcoigne. 

But now came on two adventures, both tragical 
and comical. Firft , our guide was encountered by 
three wolves and a bear , who fet upon him and his 
horfe , and wounded him in three places -, upon which 
piy manriding up to his affiftance , shot one of them 


L. 


Digitized by Googl 


an LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

* 

dead upon thefpot, which made the others retire to 
the woods. But the pleafanteft adventure was , to 
behold my man attack the bear. ’Tis fuch a crea- 
ture, that if you let himalone, he will never meddle 
with you : and this my man very well knew , and fo 
begging leave of me , in broken English , he told us 
he would make good laugh. "Why , you filly fool , faid 
I , he’ll eat you up at a mouthful. Eatee me up , re- 
plied he , by way of fcorn , me not only eatee him , but 
make much Good laugh. Upon which , pulling off 
his boots , he claps on his pumps , and running after 
themonfirous heart , he called out , that he wanted 
to difeourfe with him ; and then throwing, ftones on 
purpofetoincenfehim, the heart turnsabout in fury ., 
and with prodigious ftrides , shufHes after him. But 
though he was not fwift enough to keep up pace 
with Friday , who made up to us as it were for help, 
yet being angry , You dog , faid I , immediately takt 
horfe , and let us shoot the creature. But he cried , 
Dear mafier , no shoot , me make you laugh much. And 
fo he turned about,making figns to follow, while the 
bear ran after him , till coming to a great oak he 
afeended in a minute, leaving his gun at the bottom 
of it. Nor did the bear make any difficulty of it , 
but afeended like a cat , though his weight was very 
great. You muft confider I was not a little amazed 
at the folly of my man , as not perceiving any thing 
to occafion our laughter, till fuch time as we rode 
up nearer , and beheld the beaft mounted upon the 
oak, on the beginning of the fame branch , to which 
Friday clung at the farther end, where the bear durft 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 113 

Hot come. Hereupon Friday cried out, Nowmafler , 
me make much laugh , me make de bear dance. Upon 
■which he fell a shaking the bough , which made the 
creature look behind him , to fee how he could re- 
treat. Then , as if the bear had underftood his ftam- 
mering English •, Why you no come farther , Mr Bear ? 
faid he , pray , Mr Bear , come farther : and then in- 
deed we allburft into laughter , efpecially when we 
perceived Friday drop like a fquirrel upon the ground, 
leaving the beaft to make the beft of his way down 
the tree. And now thinking it the moil convenient 
time to shoot the creature , Friday cried out , O dear 
mafter , no shoot , me shoot by and by ; when taking up 
the gun , Me no shoot yet , faid he , me make once more, 
much laugh. And , accordingly , he was as good as his 
word ; for the creature defeending backwards from 
the tree very leifurely, before he could lay one foot 
on. the ground , Friday shot him through the ear , 
ftone dead : and looking to fee whether we were 
pleafed, he burft out into a hearty laughter , faying , 
So we keU. de bear in my country , not with the gun , 
but with much long arrows. Thus ended our diver- 
lion , to our great fatisfa&ion ; efpecially in a place 
where the terrible howlings ftruck us with a conti- 
nual terror. But the fnows now growing very deep, 
particularly on the mountains, the ravenous creatures 
were obliged to feek for fuftenance in the villages, 
where coming by furprife on the country-people , 
they killed feveral of them , befides a great number 
©f their sheep and horfes. 

Our guide told us , we had yet one more danger* 


Digitized by Google 



214 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ous place to pafs by; and if there were any more? 
wolves in the country , there we should find them. 
This was a fmall plain , encompaffed with woods, to- 
get through a long lane , to the village where we 
were to lodge. When we entered the wood , the fun 
was within half an hour of fetting ; and a little after 
it was fet , we came into the plain, which was not 
above two furlongs over, and then wepcrceivedfive 
great wolves crofs the road , without taking notice 
of us , and fo fwift as though they were purfuing af- 
ter their prey. Hereupon our guide , believing there 
were more coming , defired us to be upon our 
guard. Accordingly our eyes were very circumfpeft.* 
till about half a league farther , we perceived a dead 
horfe , and near a dozen of wolves devouring its car- 
cafe. My man Friday fain would have fired at them,- 
but I would not permit him nor had we gone half 
over the plain , but we heard dreadful howlings in a 
wood on our left , when prefently we faw an hun* 
dred come up againft us , as though they had been 
an experienced army. This obliged us to form our-. 
felves in the beft manner ; and then I ordered that 
every other man should fire , that thofe who did not, 
might be ready to give a fecond volley, should they 
advance upon us; and then every man should make 
ufe of his piftols. But there was no neceflity for 
this ; for the enemy being terrified, flopped at the 
noife of the fire; four of them were shot dead, and 
feveral others being wounded , went bleeding away, 
as we could very plainly difcover by the fnow. And' 
now remembering whathadbeen often toldme , that 




Digitized by Googli 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. nj\. 

fuch was the majefty of a man’s voice, as to flrike 
terror even into the fierce!! creatures , I ordered all 
our companions to halloo as loud as poflible : and in 
this notion l was not altogether miftaken; for they 
immediately turned about upon the firft halloo , and 
began to retire; upon which, ordering a fecond vol- 
ley in their rear , they galloped into the woods 
with great precipitation. 

Thus we had fome fmall time to load our pieces 
again , and then made all the hafte we could on our 
way ; but we had not rode far , before we were 
obliged to put ourfelves in a pollute of defence as 
before , being alarmed with a very dreadful noife in 
the fame wood, on our left hand, the fame way as we 
were to pafs , only that it was at fome diftance from 
us. By this time the darkfome clouds began to 
fpread over the elements , and the night grow- 
ing very dusky , made it fo much the more to our 
difadvantage ; but Hill the noife increafing , we were 
fully affured , that it was the howling and yelling 
of thofe ravenous creatures ; when prefently three 
troops of wolves, on our front, appeared to our fight, 
as though a great number of them had a defign to fur- 
round us and devour us in fpite of fate. But as they 
did not fall upon us immediately , we proceeded on 
our journey in as fwift a manner as the roads would 
permit our horfes , which was only a large trot. It 
was in this manner we travelled , till fuch time as we 
difcovered another wood, and had the profpedt of its 
entrance through which we were to pafs , at the far- 
theft fide of the plain. But furely none can exprefs 


Digitized by Googl 


216 


LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

the terror we were in, when, approaching the lane 
we perceived a confufed number of the fierceft wol- 
ves Handing , and , as it were , guarding its entrance. 
Nor were we long in this amazement, before another 
occafion of horror prefented itfelf ; for fuddenly we 
heat4the report of a gun at another opening into the 
wood, and, looking that way, out ran a horfe bridled 
and faddled, flying with the greateft fwiftnefs, and no 
lefs than fixteen or feventeen wolves purfuing after 
him, in order to devour the poor creature : and un- 
queftionably they did fo , after they had run him 
down, not being able to hold out that fwiftnefs with 
which he at firft efcaped them. 

"When we rode up to that entrance from whence 
the horfe came forth, there lay the carcafes of another 
horfe and two men , mangled and torn by thefe de- 
vouring wolves : and undoubtedly one of thefe men 
was the perfon who fired the gun which wehad heard, 
for the piece lay by him •, but, alas ! moft of the upper 
part of his body and his head were entombed in the 
bowels of thefe ravenous creatures. 

What courfe to take, whether to proceed or retreat, 
we could not tell ; but it was not long before the 
wolves themfelves made us come to a refolution: for 
fuch numbers furrounded us, every one of whom ex- 
pefted their prey, that, were our bodies to be divided 
among them , there would not be half a mouthful 
apiece. But happy, very happy it was for us,that but 
a little way from the entrance, there lay fome very 
large timber trees , which I fuppofed had been cut 
down and laid there for fale j amongft which I drew 

my 


» 


- Digitized by Google 


T OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. *17 

tny little troop , placing ourfelves in a line behind 
one long tree , which ferved us for a breaft work , 
when defiring them to alight , we flood in a triangle, 
or three fronts , inclofing our horfes in the centre , 
the only place where we could preferve them. . 

Never certainly was there a more furious charge 
than what the wolves made upon us in this place ; 
and the fight of the horfes , which was the principal 
prey they aimed at, provoked their hunger , and add . 
ed to their natural fiercenefs. They came on us 
with a moft dreadful noife, that made the woods ring 
■again ; and beginning to mount the pieces of timber, 
I ordered every other man to fire as before directed: 
and, indeed, fo well did they take their aim, that they 
killed feveral of the wolves at the firft volley j but 
flill we were obliged to keep a continual firing , by 
reafon they came on like devils, pushing one another 
with the greateft fury. But our fecond volley fome- 
thing abated their courage, when, flopping a little, 
we hoped they would have made the beft of their 
way ; however , it did not prove fo , for others made 
a new attempt upon us : and though in four firings 
we killed feventeen or eighteen of them , laming 
twice as many , yet they feveral times fucceflively 
came on , as though they valued not their lives for 
the fake of their prey. 

Unwilling was I to fpend our laft shot too fudden- 
ly, and therefore called my other fervant, and giving 
him a horn of powder , bid him lay a large train 
quite along the timber , which he did , while Friday 
was charging my fufee and his own, with the greatefi 

K 


Digitized by Googl 


*i* LIFE AND ADVE N TURES 

dexterity. By this time the wolves coming up the 
timber , I fet fire to the train , by fnapping a dif- 
charged piftol clofe on the powder. This fo fcorch- 
cd and terrified them , that fome fell down , and 
others jumped in among us •, but thefe we imme- 
diately difpatched , when all the reft , frighted with 
the light, which the darkfome night caufed to appear 
more dreadful, began at length to retirejupon which, 
ordering out laft piftols to be fired at once , giving at 
the famelimea great shout, the wolves were obliged 
to have recourfe to their fwiftnefs , and turn tail ; 
and then we fallied out upon twenty lame ones , cut- 
ting them in pieces with our fwords , which obliged 
them to howl lamentably , to the terror of their fel- 
lows , who refigned to us the field as vi&orious con- 
querors. And, indeed , I queftion whether Alexander 
king of Macedonia , in any of his conquefts , had more 
occafion for triumph than we had •, for he was but at- 
tacked by numerous armies of foldiers ; whereas our 
little army was obliged to combat a legion of devils , 
as it were, worfe than the cannibals , who , the fame 
moment had they flain us , would have facrificed us* 
to fatisfy their voracious appetites. 

Thus ended our bloody battle with the beafts , ha- 
ving killed threefcore of them , and faved our lives 
from their fury. Ve ftill had a league farther to go , 
When as we went , our ears were faluted with their 
moft unwelcome howlings , and we expefted every 
moment another attack. But , in an hour’s time , we 
arrived at the town where we were to lodge ; and 
here we found the place ftri&ly guarded , and all in 




OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 119 

terrible confufion , as veil they might , for fear of 
the bears and wolves breaking into the village , ia 
order to prey upon their cattle and people. The 
next morning we were obliged to take a new guide , 
by reafon the other fell very bad of his wounds , 
which he had received , as before mentioned. After 
we had reached Tholoufe , we came into a warm , 
pleafant, and fruitful country, not infefted with 
wolves , nor any fort of ravenous creatures ; and 
when we told our ftory there, they much blamed our 
guide , for conducing us through the foreft at the 
Foot of the mountains, in fuch a fevere feafon, when 
the fnow obliged the wolves to feek for shelter in the 
woods. When we informed them in what manner 
weplacedourfelves,andthehorfes in the centre, they 
exceedingly reprehended us , and told us , it was an 
hundred to one , but we had all been deftroyed ; for 
that it was the very fight of the horfes, their fo much 
defired prey, that made the wolves more ragingly fu- 
rious than they wouldhave been, which was evident, 
by their being at other times really afraid of a gun j 
but then being exceeding hungry and furious , upon 
that account , their eagernefs to come at the horfes 
made them infenfible of their danger ; and that , if 
we had not, by a continual fire, and at laft by the cun- 
ning ftratagem of the train of powder, got the better 
of them , it had been great odds if their number had 
not overpowered us;befides,it was a great mercy wo 
alighted from our horfes , and fought them with that 
courage and conduft , which , had we failed to do , 
every man of us, with our beafts, had been devoured* 

K 2 


I 

I 


Digitized by Google 


110 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and, indeed, this was nothing but truth ; for never, in 
my life , was I fo fenfible of danger, as when three 
hundred devils came roaring upon us , to shun 
whofe unwelcome company , if I was fure to meet a 
ftorm every week , I would rather go a thoufand 
leagues by fea. 

I think I have nothing uncommon in my paffage 
through France to take notice of, fince other travel- 
lers of greater learning and ingenuity , have given a 
more ample account than my pen is able to fet forth* 
From Tholoufe I travelled to Paris , from thence to 
Calais , where I took shipping , and landed at Dover 
the 14th of January , in a very cold feafon. 

Thus come to the end of my travels , I foon dis- 
covered my new found eftate , and all the bills of 
exchange I had brought were currently paid. The 
good ancient widow , my only privy counfellor , 
thought no pains nor care too great to procure my 
advantage *, nor had I ever occafion to blame her 
fidelity , which drew from me an ample reward. I 
was for leaving my effetts in her hands, intending to 
fet out for Lisbon , and fo to the Brazils i but as in 
the Defolate IJland I had fome doubts about the Ro~ 
mish religion , fo I knew there was little encourage- 
ment to fettle there, unlefs I would apoftatize from the 
orthodox faith, or live in continual fear of thelnqui- 
fition. Upon this account, I refolved to fell my plan- 
tation i and, for that intent, I wrote to my old friend 
at Lisbon, who returned me an anfwer to my great 
fatisfa&ion •, which was, that he could fell it to good 
account : however, if I thought it convenient to give 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. mi 

him liberty to offer it in my name to the two mer- 
chants , the furvivors of my truftees , refiding at the 
Brazils , who confequently underftood its intrinfic va- 
lue , having lived juft upon the fpot , and who I was 
fenfible were very rich, and, therefore, might be the 
more willing to purchafe it ; he did not in the leaft 
doubt , but that I should make four or five thoufand 
pieces of eight more of it, than I could do , if I dif- 
pofed of it in any other manner whatfoever. 

You may be fure I could not but agree with this 
. kind and ingenuous propofal •, and immediately I fent 
him an order to offer it to them , which he accord- 
ingly did •, fo that, about eight months after, the ship 
being in that time returned , he gave me afatisfa&ory 
account , that they not only willingly accepted the 
offer , but that they had alfo remitted 33,000 pieces 
of eight to a correfpondent of their own at Lisbon, in 
order to pay for the purchafe. 

Hereupon, inreturn,Ifignedthe inftrumentoffale 
according to form, which they had fent from Lisbon, 
and returned it again to my old friend, he having fent 
me, for my eftate, bills of three hundred twenty-eight 
thoufand pieces of eight , referving the payment of 
one hundred moidores per annum , which I had al- 
lowed him during life, likewife fifty to his fon during 
life alfo, according to my faithful promife, which the 
plantation was to make good as a rent-charge. 

And thus having led my reader to the knowledge 
of the firft part of my life, fo remarkable for the ma- 
ny peculiar providences that attended it , floating in 
an ocean of uncertainty anddifapoointment,of adver- 

K* 


112 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fity and profperity, beginning foolishly, and yet end- 
ing happily ; methinks , now that I am come to a fafe 
and pleafant haven , it is time to caft out my anchor , 
and , laying up my veffel , bid , for a while , adieu to 
foreign adventures. I had no other concerns to look 
after , but the care of my brother’s two fons , which , 
with the good widow’s perluafions , obliged me to 
continue at home feven years. One of thefe children 
I bred up a gentleman , and the other an expe- 
rienced Tailor, remarkable for his courage and brave- 
ry. Befides this, I married a virtuous young gentle- 
woman , of a very good family , by whom I had two 
fons and one daughter. But my dear and tender 
wife leaving this earthly ftage , ( as in the fecondpart 
of my life you will hear ) , which rent my foul as it 
were afunder, my native country became weary and 
tirefome to me : and my nephew happening to come 
from the fea, tempted me to venture another voyage 
to the Eaft Indies , which I did in the year 1694 , at 
which time I vifited my ifland , and informed my- 
felf of every thing that happened fince my depar- 
ture. 

One might reafonably imagine , that what I had 
fuffered , together with an advanced age , and the 
fear of lofing , not only what I had gotten , but my 
life alfo, might have choakedup allthefeedsofyouth- 
ful ambition and curiofity , and put a lading period 
to my wandering inclinations. But as nothing but 
death can fully allay the attive part of my life, no lefs 
remarkable for the many various contingencies of iti 
you will next perceive how I vifited my little king- 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 12 % 

dom , Saw my Succeffors the Spaniards , had an ac- 
count of the ufage they met with from the English- 
men , agreeing and difagreeing , uniting and Separa- 
ting, till at laft they were Subje&ed to the Spaniards, 
who yet ufed them very honourably , together with 
the wonderful andfuccefsful battles overthe Indians,' 
who invaded , and thought to have conquered the 
ifland, but were repelled by their invincible courage 
and bravery , having taken eleven men and five wo- 
men prifoners, by which, at my return, 1 found about 
twenty young children on my little kingdom. Here I 
Raid twenty days , left them fupplies of all neceffary 
things , as alfo a carpenter and Smith , and shared the 
iflandintoparts, referving the whole property to my- 
felf. Nor will you be infenfible , by the account of 
theSe things , of Several new adventures I have been 
engaged in , the battles I have fought , the deliveran- 
ces I have met with : and while, in the furprifing re- 
lation of Such remarkable occurrences , I shall de- 
scribe many of God’s kindeft providences to me in 
particular, no leSs conspicuous in the Same goodneSs, 
power, and majefty of our great Creator, shewn, one 
way or other , over the face of the earth , if duly ad- 
verted to. 


224 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 


The further Adventures of Robinfon Crufoe , 
wherein are contained feveral Jlrange and fur- 
prifing accounts of his travels , and the moft 
remarkable tranfaElions both by fea and land ; 
with his wonderful vifion of the Angelic W orld. 

hen ve confider the puiffant force of Na- 
ture , and what mighty influence it has many ti- 
mes over the temper of the mind , it will be no 
fuch great wonder to think, that my powerful rea- 
fon should be overcome by a much ftronger incli- 
nation. My late acquired kingdom ran continually 
in my thoughts all the day , and I dreamed of it 
in the night j nay , I made it the continual fubjeft 
of my talk , even to impertinence , when I was 
awake. I had fuch vapours in my head , that I ac- 
tually fuppofed myfelf at my caftle ; that I not only 
perceived Friday's father , but the old Spaniard, and 
the wicked failors , but that I talked and difcourfed 
with them about their manner of living •, that I heard 
thefe things related to me , which I found afterwards 
to be but too true ; and that I executed my judg- 
ments with the greateft feverity upon the offenders. 
And, indeed , this anticipating all the pleafing joys of 
my life , fcarcely afforded me one pleafant hour: my 
dear and tender wife could not but take notice of it, 
which drew thefe affeflionate fpeeches from her : 
My dear , faid she , I am really perfuaded that fome 
fecret impulfe from heaven occasions in you a determina. - 


Digitized by Gc 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* nj 

tion to fee the if and again : nor am I lefs fenfible , but 
your being engaged to me , and thefe dear children , is the 
only hinderance of your departure. I know , my dear , if 
I was in the grave , you would not long continue at home; 
prevent not your happinefs upon my account , whofe only 
comfort centers in you. dll that I can object is , that 
fuch an hazardous undertaking is no way Confiftent with 
a perfon of your years ; but if you are refolved to go % 
added she , ■weeping , only permit me to bear you company , 
and that is all that I defire. 

Such endearing tendernefs , graced with the moft 
innocent , and yet moft powerful charms , brought 
me infenfibly into my right underftanding ■, andwhen 
I conftdered all the tranfadions of my life , and par- 
ticularly my new engagement; that I had now one 
child already born, and my wife big of another ; and 
that I had no occafion to feek for more riches , who 
already was bleffed with fufficiency , with much 
ftruggling I altered my resolutions at laft, refolving 
to apply myfelf to fome buftnefs or other , which 
might put a period to fuch wandering inclinations. 
Hereupon I bought a little farm in the county of 
Bedford , with a refolution to move rhithqr : upon 
this there was a pretty convenient houfe, furrounded 
with land, very capable of improvement, which fuit- 
ed my temper as to planting, managing and cultivat- 
ing. Nor was I long before I entered upon my new 
fettlement , having bought ploughs , harrows , carts, 
waggons , horfes , cows , and sheep ; fo that I now 
led the life of a country gentleman , and as happy in 
my retirement as the grcateft monarch in the world, 



Digitized by Google 


aa6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

And what made me think my happinefs the greater 
was , that I was in that middle ftate of life , which my 
father had fo often recommended , much refembling 
the felicity of a rural retirement , which is elegantly 
defcribed by the poet in thefe lines ; 

Free from all vices , free from care , 

jigc has no pain , and youth no fnare. 

But , in the midft of this my happinefs , I was fud- 
denly plunged into the greateft forrow that I could 
poflibly endure : for , when I leaft expe&ed it , my 
dear and tender wife was forced to fubmit to the ir- 
reflftible power of death , leaving this tranfitory life 
for a better. It is impoflible for me to exprefs the 
beauties of her mind , or the lovelinefs of her perfon i 
neither can I too much lament her lofs , which my 
Jateft breath shall record: her influence was greater 
over me , than the powers of my own reafon, the im- 
portunities of friends, the inftru&ions of a father , or 
the melting tears of a tender and difconfolate mo- 
ther : in a word , she was the fpirit of all my affairs, 
and the center of my enterprifes. But now , fince 
the cruel hand of death had dofedmy dear eft’s eyes, 
I feemed in my thoughts a ftranger to the world ; my 
privy counfellor being gone , I was like a ship with- 
out a pilot , that could only run before the wind* 
And when I looked around me in this bufy world , 
one part labouring for bread, and the other fquander- 
ing away their eftates ; this put me in mind how I had 
lived in my little kingdom , where both reafon and 
religion dictated to me , that there was fomething 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 117 

that certainly was the reafon and end of life .which 
was far fuperior to what could be hoped for on this 
fide the grave. My country delights were now as in* 
fipid and dull , as mufic or fcience to thofe who have 
neither tafte nor ingenuity. In short , refolving to 
'leave off houfe keeping, I left my farm, and, in a few. 
months , returned to London. 

But neither could that great city , fo famous for its 
variety of entertainment , afford me any agreeable 
delight ; a fiate of idlenefs I fouud to be the very 
dregs of life , and moft hurtful to body and foul. It 
was now the beginning of the year 1694, at which 
time my nephew (who , as I before obferved , had 
been brought up to the fea, and advanced to be cap- 
tain of a ship ) was returned from a short voyage to 
Bilboa , the firfi he had made in that Ration. He 
comes to me one morning , telling roe , that foroe 
merchants of his acquaintance hadpropofedtohim to 
go a voyage for them , to the Eaft Indies and China , 
in the manner of private traders : and now , uncle , 
faid he , if you'll accompany me thither , I’ll engage to 
land you upon your old ljland , to vijit the J late of your 
little kingdom. 

Juft before he came in, my thoughts were fixed 
to get a patent for its poffefiion, and then to fill it 
with inhabitants. After I had paufed a little while , 
and looked ftedfaftly on him , What devil , or fpirit % 
faid I , fent you with this unlucky errand ? He ftarced 
at firft -, but recovering himfelf , when he perceived 
I was not offended ; Sir , replied he , what I have 
propofed cannot , 1 hope , b$ ftyled unlucky , fines 

K6 


Digitized by Google 


ai8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

certainly you muft be defirous to fee your little ter- 
ritory , "where you reigned with more content than 
any of your brother-kings in the univerfe. Nephew, 
faid I , if you will leave me there , and call for me as 
you come back , I care not if I give my confent : 
but he anfwered , that the merchants would not al- 
low their vefiel , loaden with an infinite value , to re- 
turn there again , which was a month’s fail out of the 
way :befides, Sir , faid he , if I should mifcarry, was 
your requeft granted , why then you would be locked 
up as before. This , indeed , carried a great deal of 
reafon in it ; but we found out a remedy , and that 
was to carry a framed floop on board, ready to be 
fet up in the ifland, by the affiftance of fome carpen- 
ters , which we should carry with us , that might be 
fitted in a few days to go to fea. I was not long in 
forming my refolution, which over-fwayed my good 
friend the widow’s perfuafions , and the natural affec- 
tion I bore to my young children. I made my will , 
and fettled my eftate in fuch a manner, that I was 
perfe&ly fure that my poor infants would havejuftice 
done them. The good widow not only undertook to 
make provifion for my voyage , but alfo took the char- 
ge of my dome ftic affairs, and to provide for my chil- 
dren's education and indeed no mother could take 
more care, or underftood that office better-, for which 
I lived to reward, and return her my hearty thanks. 

The beginning of January 1694-5 , my nephew 
being ready to fail , I and Friday went on board in 
the Downs on the 8th , having , befide that floop al 
ready mentioned , a very confiderable cargo for my 


Digitized by Google 



r~" ' . " 

i 

OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ia$ 

new colony. Firfi , I had fome fervants , whom I pro- 
pofedtoleave there as inhabitants, or to workwhile 
I Raid there , as they should appear willing : there 
were two carpenters , a fmith , and a very ingenious 
fellow who was Jack of all trades; for he was not on- 
ly a cooper by trade , but alfo he was dexterous at 
making wheels and hand-mills to grind corn, likewife 
a good turner , and a good pot-maker. I alfo carri- 
ed a tailor , who confented to flay in my plantation, 
and proved a moft neceflary fellow in the ifland. 
As to my cargo , it confifted of a fufficient quantity 
of linen, and English fluffs, for clothing the Spa- 
niards that I expedled to find there ; as likewife 
gloves , hats , shoes , ftockings ; together with beds, 
bedding , and houfehold fluff, efpecially kitchen uten- 
fils , with pots, kettles , pewter ,brafs ,&c. alfo nails, 
tools of all forts , ftaples , hooks , hinges , and all o- 
thers things neceffary ; all which , I think , coft mea- 
bout three hundred pounds. Nor was this all; for 
I carried an hundred fpare arms , muskets, andfufees, 
befides fome piftols , a confiderable quantity offeveral 
forts of shot , two brafs cannon , befides fwords , cut- 
laffes , and the iron part for fome pikes and halberts. 

I made my nephew take with us two fmall quarter 
deck guns , more than he had occafion for in his ship, 
to leave behind , if there was a neceflity ; that fo we 
might build a fort there , and man it againft all op- 
pofers whatfoever . 

‘ "Well ,we put out to fea ; and though I can’t fay 
this voyage was fo unprofperous as my others had 
been, yet contrary winds drove us fo far northward, 





Digitized by Google 


*30 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

that we were obliged to putin at Galway in Ireland , 
where we lay wind bound two and twenty days. Here 
indeed our provifions were very cheap , and we add- 
ed to our ship’s ftores , by taking in feveral live 
hogs , two cows and calves, which I then refolved to 
put on shore in my ifland , if our neceffities did not 
call for them. On the 5th of February we failed 
from Ireland , with a very fair gale , which lafted for 
fome days ; and I think it was about the 20th of 
the fame month , late in the evening , when the mate 
informed us that he faw a flash of fire , and heard 
a gun fired •, and when he was fpeaking , a boy came 
in , and told us , that the boatfwain had heard ano- 
ther. Upon which we all ran to the quarter-deck , 
from whence in a few moments we perceived a ter- 
rible fire at a difiance. We had immediately re- 
courfe to our reckonings , in which we were all of o- 
pinion , that there could be no land that way , it ap- 
pearing to be at N. N. W. Hereupon we conclu- 
ded that fome ship had taken fire at fea , and that 
it could not be far off , by the report of the guns 
which we had heard. We made up dire&ly to it, 
and in half an hour’s time , the wind being fair, we 
could plainly perceive a great ship on fire in the 
middle of the fea. Touched with this unhappy 
difafter , and confidering my former circumftances , 
when the Portuguefe captain took me up , I imme- 
diately ordered five guns to be fired, that the poor 
creatures , not feeing us , it being dark , (though we 
could perceive their flame) , might be fenfible there 
jvas deliverance at hand , and confequently might eu- 


t 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 231 

deavour to fave themfelves in their boat. Nor -was 
it long before the ship blew up in the air , and the 
fire was extinguished in the ocean. But fuppofing 
them all to be in their boats , we hung out our lan- 
terns , and kept firing till eight o’clock in the morn- 
ing ; when , with our perfpefHves', we beheld two 
boats, full of people, making towards us, though 
the tide was againft them : then fpreading out our 
ancient , and hanging out a waft, as a fignal for them 
to come onboard, in half an hour’s time , we came 
up to them , and took them all in , there being no 
lefs than fixty four men , women , and children. It 
Was a French merchant ship of 300 tons , homeward 
bound from Quebec, in the river of Canada.The ma- 
iler informedmehow, by the negligence of the fteerf- 
man , the fieerage was fet on fire : that , at his out- 
cry for help , the fire was, as they thought , totally 
extinguished; but , that fome fparks getting between 
the timber, and within the ceiling , it proceeded into 
the hold , where there was no refilling, it : that then 
they got into their boats, as creatures in the laft 
extremity, with what provifion they had, together 
with oars , fails , and a compafs , intending to go back 
to Newfoundland , the wind blowing at S. E. and by 
E though there were feveral chances againft them , 
as ftormstooverfetandfounder them,rain^nd colds . 
to benumb and perish their limbs, and contrary winds 
to keep them back and ftarve them ; but , faid he, 
in this our great diftrefs , we heard the welcome re- 
port of your guns, when, with unfpeakable joy, ta- 
king] down our mails and fails., we were refolved to 


1 = 


Digitized by Google 




*3* LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

lie by till morning •, but perceiving your light , we 
fet our oars at work to keep our boat a-head, the 
fooner to attain your ship, the happy infirument of 
our deliverance. 

• Indeed, no one can exprefs the joy of thefe poor 
creatures on this occafion •, fear and grief are eafily 
fet forth ; lighs and tears , with a few motions of the 
hands and head , are all’the demonftrations of thefe 
paffions ; but an excefs of joy , carries in it a thoufand 
extravagancies •, especially , I think , amongft the 
French, whofe temper is allowed to be more volatile, 
paftionate,fprightly , and gay, than that of otherna- 
tions. Some were weeping , tearing themfelves in 
the greateft agonies of forrow, and running ftark 
mad about the ship, while the reft were ftamping 
with their feet , wringing their hands , iinging , 
laughing , fwooning away , Vomiting , fainting , with 
a few returning hearty thanks to the Almighty, and 
crofting themfelves. I think, if I am not miftaken , 
our furgeon was obliged to let. thirty of them blood. 
But among the pafiengers , there were two priefts , 
the one an old , and the other a young man ; but 
what amazed me more was , that the oldeft was in 
the worft plight •, for no fooner did he perceive him- 
felffreed^-om danger , but he dropt down , as it were 
withoutffe , and , to every one’s appearance , quite 
dead •, but the furgeon , chafing and rubbing his arm. 
Opened a vein , which at firft dropped , and then 
flowing more freely, the old man began to open his 
eyes , and in a quarter of an hour was well again. 
But foon remembering his happy change ,the joy o£ 


X 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 233 

which whirled his blood about fafter than the veffels 
could convey it, he became fo feverish, as made him 
more fit for bedlam than any other place •, but the 
furgeon giving him afleepy dofe , he was perfectly 
compofed the next morning. 

Remarkable, indeed, was the behaviour of the young 
prieft. At his entrance on board the ship , he fell 
on his face in the moft humble proftration to the Al- 
mighty. I thought , indeed , he had fallen into a 
fwoon , and fo ran to help him up ; but he modeftly 
told me , he was returning his thanks to the Al- 
mighty , defiring me to leave him a few moments , 
and that , next to his Creator , he would return me 
thanks alfo. And, indeed, he did fo, about three 
minutes after , with great ferioufnefs and affeftion, 
while the tears flood in his eyes , which convinced 
me of the gratitude of his foul. Nor didhe lefsshew 
his piety and wifdom , in applying himfelf to his 
country people, and labouring to compofe them, by 
the moft powerful reafons , arguments , and perfua- 
fions. And when indeed, thefe people had taken 
their night’s repofe , in fuch lodgings as our ship 
would allow , we found nothing but the beft of man- 
ners, and the moft civil acknowledgments, for which 
the French are eminently remarkable. The next day 
the captain and one of the priefts defired to fpeak with 
me, and my nephew the commander. They told us , 
that they hadfaved fome money and valuable things 
out of the ruined veflel , which was at our fervice : 
only that they defired to be fet on shore fome where 
in our way. At the firft , my nephew was for accep- 


Digitized by Google 


- 


434 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ting the money ■, but I (who knew how hard my cafe 
would have been, had the Portuguefe captain ferved 
me fo) perfuaded him to the contrary •, and therefore 
told them, that as we had done nothing but what we 
were obliged to do, by nature and humanity, and what 
we ourfelves might expe&from others infuch calami- 
ty ; fo we took them up to fave them, not to plunder 
them , or leave them naked upon the land , to perish 
for want offubfiftence, and therefore wouldnot accept 
their money : but as to landing them, that was a great 
difficulty ; for , being bound to the Eaft Indies , it 
was impoflible wilfully to change our voyage upon 
their particular account, nor could my nephew (who 
was under charter-party to purfueitby way of Brazil) 
anfwer it to the freighters. All that we could do, was 
to put ourfelves in the way of meeting fome ships 
homeward bound from the Weft Indies, that, if pof- 
fible , they might get a paffage to France or England. 
Indeed , they were very thankful for our firft kind- 
nefs •, but were under great concern , efpecially the 
paflengers , at their being carried to the Eaft Indies. 
They begged, therefore, I would keep on the banks of 
Newfoundland, where, probably , they might meet 
with fome ship or Hoop to carry them to Canada , 
whence they came. As this was but a reafonable 
requeft, I was inclined to grant it , fince it was no 
breach of charter-party , and that the laws of God 
and nature obliged us to do what good we could to. 
our fellow-creatures •, and befides , the danger we 
ourfelves should be in for want of provifions : fo we 
confented to carry them to Newfoundland , if wind 


Digitized by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 135 

ind weather would permit ; if not , that we should 
carry them to Martinico in the Weft Indies. But as 
it happened , in a week’s time , we made the banks of 
Newfoundland, where theFrenchpeoplehired a bark 
to carry them to France. But the young prieft being 
defirous to go to the Eaft Indies , I readily agreed to 
it, becaufe I liked his converfation, and two or three 
oftheFrenchfailorsalfo entered themfelves onboard 
our ship. 

Now , dire&ing our courfe for the Weft Indies » 
fleering S. and S. by E. about twenty days , with lit- 
tle wind, another adventure happened, to exer cife our 
humanity. In the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes 
north , the 19th of March 1694-5 , we perceived a 
fail , ( our courfe S. E. and by S. ) , which bore up 
to us , and then she appeared to be a large veffel t 
having loft her main top-maft, fore-maft, and bolt- 
fprit ; when firing a gun , as a fignal of diftrefs , wind 
N. N. W. we foon came to fpeak with her. She 
was a ship of Briftol, bound home , from Barbadoes, 
out of which road she had been forced by a hurricane 
to the weft ward , in which they loft their mafts. 

They told us, their expectations were to fee the Ba- 
hama iflands , but were driven away by a ftrong 
wind at N. N. W. and having no fails to work the ship 
with , but the main courfe , and a kind of fquare fail 
upon a jury fore-maft , becaufe they could not come 
near the land , were endeavouring to ftand for the 
Canaries ; nay , what was worfe, befides all their fa- 
tigue, they were almoft ftarved for wantofprovifion, 
having ate nothing for eleven days ; all that they 


Digitized by Google 


itf. LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

had aboard was fugar , a barrel of fresh water , and 
feven casks of rum. In this ship were three paffen- 
gers, a youth, his mother , and a maid fervant , who 
were in a moft deplorable condition for want of food. 
If 1 had not gone on board their ship, the knowledge 
of their mifery had been concealed from me,and they 
would have inevitably perished, though, indeed, their 
fecond mate (who was captain, by reafon the true 
captain was not on board when the hurricane hap- 
pened ) had before informed me that there were fuch 
perfons on board, whom he fuppofed to be dead, be- 
ing afraid to enquire after them , becaufe he had no- 
thing to give them for relief. Hereupon we refolved 
to let them have what we could fpare , ordering the 
mate to bring fome of his men on board us , which 
he did accordingly •, as he and they looked like ske- 
letons , when meat was fet before them , I ordered 
them to eat fparingly. But, however , they foon fell 
fick •, which obliged the furgeon to mix fomethingin 
their broth , which was to be to them both food and 
phyfic. When they were fed , we ordered our mate 
to carry them a fack of bread , and four or five 
pieces of beef •, but the furgeon charged them to fee 
it boiled , and to keep a guard on the cook-room , to 
pffcvent the men from eating it raw, and confequent- 
ly killing themfelves with what was defigned for 
their relief. But , particularly , I defired the mate to 
fee what condition the poor paffengers were in, and 
the furgeon gave him a pitcher of the fame broth 
which he had prepared for the men. And being cu- 
rious to fee tills fcene of mifery my f elf , I took the 


Digitized by ( 




OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 25I 

ieaptain (as we called the mate of the ship) in our own 
b oat , and failed after them. 

Here was a fad light indeed ! fcarce were the vic- 
tuals half boiled in the pot , but they were ready to 
break open the cook-room door. To ftay their fto- 
machs , the mate gave them bifcuits , which were 
dipped in , and foftened with the liquor of the meat, 
which they call Breuifc ; telling them , it was for 
their own fafety ; that he was obliged to give them 
but a little at a time : and fo feeding them gradually , 
their bellies were comfortably filled, and the men did 
very well again. But when they came to the poor 
gentlewoman in the cabin, who, for feveral days, had 
continued without food, giving what she had to her 
fon , they found her as it were in the arms of death. 
She was fitting upon the floor of the deck , with her 
.back up againft the fides, between two chairs, which 
were lashed fall , and her head shrunk between her 
shoulders , like a fenfelefs corpfe. Nothing was 
wanting in my mate to revive and encourage her ; 
opening her lips , and putting fome broth into her 
mouth with a fpoon. But not having ftrength to 
fpeak,she lifted up her head with much difficulty, in- 
timating that it was now too late , at the fame time 
pointing to the youth her fon , as though she defired 
him to do what he could to fave the lad ; and , in a 
little after , she died. 

The youth , indeed, was not fo far gone , yet lay 
ftretched out in a cabin bed , like one that had fcarce 
any life. In his mouth was a piece of an old glove , 
the reft of which he had ate up. At firft he vomited 


Digitize* 


*3* LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

tlrhat the mate had given him ; but a length begat! 
fenfibly to revive, though in the greateft concern for 
the death of his tender mother. 

As to the poor maid , she lay by her miftrefs , like 
one in the laft pangs of death : her limbs were diftort- 
ed , one of her hands was clafped round the frame of 
a chair , which she griped fo hard , that it was with 
fome difficulty we feparated her from it : her other 
arm lay over her head , and her feet lay both toge- 
ther, fet faft againft the frame of the cabin table : not 
only being ftarved with hunger , but overcome with 
grief for the lofs of her miftrefs, whom she loved moft 
tenderly. It was a great while before the furgeon 
could bring her to life , and a much longer time be- 
fore she came to her fenfes. 

After we had failed with them fome days , wefent 
them five barrels of beef , one of pork , two hogf- 
heads of bifcuit, with peafe , flour, and other things ; 
taking three casks of fugar , fome rum , and fome 
pieces of eight for fatisfaftion, we left them, but took 
the youth and maid with us , with all their goods. 
The lad was about feventeen years old , very hand- 
fome , modeft, fenfible , and well bred , but mightily- 
concerned for the lofs of his honoured mother , ha- 
ving loft his father at Barbadoes but a few months 
before. He befeeched the furgeon to intercede with 
me to take him out of the ship •, for that the failors , 
not fparing a fmall fuftenance , had ftarved his mo- 
ther. But hunger has no bounds , no right , and 
confequently is incapable of any compaffion. When 
the furgeon told him , that our voyage might put 


, Gc 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 239 

him in bad circumftances , and farther from his 
friends ; he anfwered , he did not care , fo he was 
delivered from that terrible crew : that as the captain 
{ meaning me ) had faved him from death , fo he 
was fure he would do him no harm ; and as for the 
maid , when she was reftored to her fenfes , she 
would be no lefs thankful , let us carry them where 
we would. And , indeed , the furgeon fo reprefented 
their cafe to me, that I confented , and took them on 
board, with all their goods, except eleven hogsheads 
of fugar ; but the youth having a bill of lading , I 
made the commander oblige himfelf to deliver a let- 
ter and the deceafed widow’s goods to Mr Rogers , 
a merchant in Briftol ; but I believe the ship was loft 
at fea , for we could never hear what became of her 
afterwards. We were now in the latitude of 19 
deg. 32 min. having as yet a tolerable good voyage. 
But , palling by feveral little incidents relating to 
wind and weather , I shall relate what is moft re- 
markable concerning my little kingdom , to which I 
was then drawing near. I had great difficulty in 
finding it •, for as I came to, and went from it before, 
on the fouth and eaft fide of the ifiand , as coming 
from the Brazils •, fo now approaching between the 
main and the ifiand , not having any chart for the 
coaft , nor land-mark , it obliged us to go on shore 
feveral iflands on the mouth of the river Oroonoko, 
but to no purpofe. This I perceived , that what I 
thought was a continent before , was no fuch tfjing, 
but a long ifiand , or rather a ridge of fands. On one 
of thefe iflands 1 found fome Spaniards , but they 


Digitized by Googlt 


f 


240 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

belonged to the Ifle de Trinidad , who came hither 
in a (loop to make fait , and to try to find fome pearl 
mufcles. But , at length , I came fair on the fouthfide 
of my ifiand , and then I prefently knew the counte- 
nance of my little kingdom , fo we brought the ship 
fafe to an anchor , broadfide within the little creek, 
where flood my ancient and venerable caftle. 

No fooner did I fee the place , but calling for Fri- 
day , I asked him where he was ? But when he look- 
ed a little , he clapped his hands , crying , O joy , O 
there , O yes , O there ! pointing to our old abode , and 
then fell a dancing and capering as if he was mad , 
and I had much ado to keep him from jumping into 
the fea , to fwim ashore. Friday , faid I , what do you 
think , shall we go fee your father ? At the men- 
tioning his father’s name, the poor affettionate crea- 
ture fell a weeping : No , no , fays he , me fee him no 
- more , never fee poor father more ! he long ago die , die 
long ago ; he much old man. You don ’t know that, 
Friday , faid I , but shall we fee any body elfe ? He 
looks about, and pointing to the hill above my houfe 
cries out , We fee , we fee , there much men and 
there ! which, though I could not perceive them with 
my perfpettive glafs , was true , by what the men 
themfelves told me the next day. 

When the English ancient was fpread , and three 
guns fired as a fignal of friendship , we perceived a 
fmoke rife from the creek ; upon which I ordered 
the boat out , taking Friday with me , and hanging 
out a white flag of truce , I went on shore , accom- 
panied alfo by the young friar , to whom I had rela- 
ted 


-Ccfigkl 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 24* 

ted the hiftory of the firft part of my life : b elides, we 
had lixteen men well armed, in cafe we had met with 
any oppolition. 

After we had rowed dire&ly into the creek , the 
firft man I fixed my eye upon , was the Spaniard , 
whofe life I had faved , and whofe face I perfeftly 
well knew. I ordered them all to ftay in the boat 
for a while ; but Friday perceiving his father at a 
diftance , would have jumped into the fea , had they 
not let the boat go. No fooner was he on shore, 
but he flew like a fwift arrow out of a bow , to em- 
brace his aged father. Certainly it would melt a 
man of the firmeft refolution , into the fofteft tears, 
to fee with what uncommon tranfports of joy he fa- 
luted him : he firft killed him , then ftroked his face* 
took him in his arms , laid him under a shady tree, 
fat down by him , then looked as carnefl at him , as 
one would do at a picture , for a quarter of an hour 
together. After this , he would lie upon the ground , 
ftroke his legs , and kifs them , then get up and flare 
at him , as though he was bewitched : but the next 
day one could not forbear laughter to fee his behavi- 
our, for he would walkfeveral hours with his father 
along the shore , leading him by the hand, as though 
he was a lady ; while , every now and then he would 
run to the boat , to get fomething for him , as a 
lump of fugar , dram , bifcuit , or fomething or other 
that was good. His frolics ran in another channel 
in the afternoon •, for when he fet old Friday on the 
ground , he would dance round him , making comi- 
cal poftures and geftures : and all this while would 

L 


*4* LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

be telling him one ftory or other of his travels and 

adventures. 

It was on the 10th of April , anno 169 j , that I fet 
tny foot upon the ifland a fecond time. When my 
faithful Spaniard > accompanied Dy one more , ap- 
proached the boat , he little knew who I was , till I 
difcovered myfelf to him : Seignior , faid I , in Por- 
tugu'efe, don’t you know me? he fpoke never a word, 
but giving his musket to his attendant, extended his 
arms, and faying Something in Spanish, that I did not 
then underftand , he came forward, and embraced 
me, faying , he was inexcufable, not to know his de- 
liverer •, who , like an angel fent from heaven , had 
faved his life. He then beckoned to the man to call 
out his companions , asking me , if I would walk to 
my own habitation y and take poffefiion , where I 
Should find fome mean improvements : but indeed 
they were extraordinary ones •, for they had planted 
fo many trees fo clofe together , that the place was 
like a labyrinth , which none could find out , except 
themfelves , who knew its intricate windings. I ask- 
ed him the meaning of all thefe fortifications ; he 
told me he would give me a large account of what 
had pafled fince my departure to this time , and how 
he had fubdued Tome English , who thought to be 
their murderers , hoping I would not be difpleafed, 
fince neceflity compelled them to it. As I knew 
they were wicked villains , fo I told him , that I was 
not only far from finding fault with it, but was ra- 
ther heartily glad that they had fubdued them, 
tyhile we were thus talking , the man whom he. had 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 14} 

Cent returned , accompanied by eleven more , but ia 
fuch habits , that it was impoftible to tell what na- 
tions they were of. He firft turned to me , and 
pointing to them Thefe , Sir , faid he , are fome of 
the gentlemen who owe their lives to your goodnefs; 
then turning to them , and pointing to me , he made 
them fenfible who I was : and then indeed they fa- 
luted me one by one ; not as ordinary men , but as 
though they had been ambaftadors or noblemen, and 
1 a triumphant conqueror •, for their behaviour not 
only agreed with a manlike majeftic gravity , but, at 
the fame time was fo obliging and courteous, as made 
them admirable to the laft degree. 

Before I relate the hiftory of the tranfa&ions of 
my kingdom , as I had it from the Spaniard’s own 
mouth, I mufthere infert what I omitted in my fori- 
mer relation. The matter is thus : Juft before we 
weighed anchor to fet fail , there happened a quarrel 
on board the ship , which had like to have occaftoned 
a fecond mutiny, till fuch time as the courageous cap- 
tain , taking two of the moft refrattory prifoners y 
laid them in irons , threatening , as they were con- 
cerned in the former diforders , to have them hang- 
ed in England , for running away with the ship. 
This frightened fome of the reft, as thinking the cap- 
tain would ferve'them in the fame manner, though 
he feemed to give them good words for the prefent. 
But the mate having intelligence of this , made me 
Acquainted with their fears ; fo that , to make them 
more eafy, and ourfelvesmorefafefrom their confpfc> 
racies , I was obliged to go down , and pafs my ho- 

Li 


244 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

nour’s -word for it, that, upon their good behaviour, 
all that was paft should be pardoned; in teftimony of 
which I ordered the two men’s irons to be taken off, 
and themfelves forgiven. But as this had brought 
us to an anchor that night.in which there was a calm, 
the two men that had been in irons , ftole each of 
them a musket , and fome other weapons , and taking 
the ship’s pinnace , not yet haled up , ran away to 
their brother rogues. The next morning we fent 
the long boat , with men to purfue them ; but all in 
vain ; the mate, in revenge , would have demolished 
my little caftle , burnt its furniture , and deftroyed 
their plantations ; but having no orders for it he did 
not put it in execution. And thus there were five 
Englishmen in the ifland , which caufed great differ^ 
•ences , as my faithful Spaniard gave me a perfett ac- 
count of it in the following manner. 

You cannot , Sir , but remember the embaffy you 
fent me about , and what a difappointment we met 
with , by your abfence , at our return. There is but 
little variety in the relation of our voyage , being 
bleffed with calm weather , and fmooth fea. Great t 
indeed , was the jpy of my countrymen to fee me 
alive , having a&ed as the principal man on board , 
•the captain of the shipwrecked veffel dying before; 
nor was their furprife lefs , as knowing I was taken 
prifoner by the favages of another nation , they 
thought me long fince entombed , in their monftrous 
bowels. But when I shewed them the arms , ammu- 
nition , and provifions 1 had brought for them , they 
looked upon me as a fecond Jofeph advanced in 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 241 

• \ , 

Pharaoh’s court, and immediately prepared to come 
along with me. Indeed, they were obliged to trefpafs- 
upon their friendly favages , by borrowing two of 
their canoes . under a pretext for fishing : and they 
came away the next morning , but without any pro- 
vifions of their own , except a few roots , which 
ferved them inftead of bread. After three weeks 
abfence , we arrived ar your habitation. Here we 
met with three English Tailors , who , I confefs , gave 
us provifions , and that letter of dire&ions you had 
left for us , which informed us how to bring up tame 
goats , plant corn , cure grapes , make pots •, and , itt 
short , every thing that was neceffary for our ufe ; 
as, in particular , I knew your method belt, fo taking 
Friday’s father to affift me , we managed all the af- 
fairs •, nor were the reft of the Spaniards wanting in 
their kind offices /drefling food for the Englishmen , 
who did nothing but ramble and divert themfelves in 
the woods, either shooting parrots, or catching tortoi- 
fes. But we had not been long ashore, before we were 
informed of two more Englishmen, unnaturally turn- 
ed out of their common place of refidence by the 
three others above mentioned : this made my Spa- 
niards and me ( whom they now looked upon as 
their governor in your abfence J endeavour to per- 
fuade them to take them in, that we might be as 
one family •, but all our entreaties were in vain •, fo 
that the poor fellows , finding nothing to be done 
without induftry , pitched their tents on the north 
fide of the ifland , a little inclining to the weft , for 
fear of favages. Here they built two huts , one 


046 LIFE AND ADVENTURES- 

to lodge , and the other to lay their ftores in ; for 
jny good natured Spaniards giving them fome feeds, 
they dug and planted as I had done , and began to 
live prettily. But while they were thus comfortably 
going on, the ^hree unnatural brutes , their country- 
men, in a mere bullying humour , infulted them , 
by faying , the governor ( meaning you ) had given 
them poffeflion of the ifland , and d-mn ’em , they 
should build no houfes upon their ground , without 
paying rent. The two honeft men ( for fo let me 
now diftinguish them) thought their three country- 
men only jefted , and one of them invited them in , 
to fee their fine habitations \ while the other face- 
tioufly told them , that fince they built tenements , 
with great improvements, they should, according to 
the cuftom of landlords , give them a longer leafe ; 
at the fame time defiring them to fetch a fcrivener 
to draw the writings. One of the wretches fwear— 
ing he should pay for the jeft, fnatches up a fire- 
brand ; and clapping it to the outfide of their hut , 
very fairly fet it on fire, which would foon have con- 
fumed it , had not the honeft man thruft him away , 
and trod it out with his feet. Hereupon the fellow 
returns with a pole , with which he would have 
ended his days , had not the poor man avoided the 
blow ; when , fetching his musket , he knocked down 
the villain that began the quarrel. The other two 
coming to aflift their fellow , obliged the honeft man 
to take his musket alfo , and both of them prefenting 
their pieces , bid the villains ftand off j and if they 
did not lay down their arras, death should decide tho.. 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. *4? 

dispute one way or other. This brought them to a 
parley , in which they agreed to take their wounded 
man and be gone \ but they were ip the wrong that 
they did not difarm them when they had the power,' 
and then make their complaint to me and my Spa* 
niards for juftice , which might have prevented their 
farther defigns againft them. And indeed fo many 
trefpaffes did they afterwards commit, by treading 
down their corn , shooting their young kids and 
goats , and plaguing them night and day , that 
they refolved to come to my caftle, challenge all 
the three , and decide their right by one plaii> 
battle , while the Spaniards flood by to fee fair play. 
One day it happened , that two of my Spaniards (one 
of whom underftood English) being in the woods, 
were met by one of the honeft men , who complain-* 
ed how barbarous their countrymen had beep in 
deftroying their corn , killing their milch-goat , and 
three kids, which deprived them of their fubfiftencej 
that if we did not grant them relief, they muft be 
inevitably ftarved •, and fo they parted : but when 
my Spaniards came home at night , and fupper being 
on the table , one of them began to reprehend the 
Englishmen, but in a very mannerly way, which they 
refenting , replied , What bufinefs had their country* 
men there without leave , when it was none of their 
ground ? Why , faid my Spaniard , calmly , Inglefe , 
they muft not ftarve •, but they replied , Let them 
ftarve and be d-mn’d, they should neither plant nor 
build , and d-mn them they should be their fer-* 
yants, and work for them, for the ifland was theirs » 




Digitized by Googli 


%4$ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and they would burn all the huts they should find 
in the land. By this rule , faid my Spaniard , fmiling tl 
We shall be your fervants too. Aye , by G-d , and 
fo you shall , replied the impudent rafcal. Upon 
which, ftarting up, "Will. Atkins cries, Come , Jack , 
let’s have t’other brush with them ; who dare to 
build in our dominions ? Thus leaving us fomething 
heated with a juftpaflion, away they trooped, every 
man having a gun, piftol, and fword, muttering fome 
threatening words, that we could then but imperfe&Iy 
underftand. That night they defigned to murder their 
two companions, and flept till midnight in the bower, 
thinking to fall upon them in their deep : nor were 
the honeft men lefs thoughtful concerning them ; 
for , at this juncture , they were coming to find them 
out, but in a much fairer way. As foon as the 
villains came to the huts , and found nobody there , 
they concluded that I and my Spaniards had given 
them notice , and therefore fwore to be revenged on 
us. Then they demolished the poor mens habita- 
tion ; not by fire , as they attempted before , but 
pulled down their houfes , limb from limb , not lea- 
ving flick nor ftone on the ground where they ftoodj 
broke their houfehold fluff in pieces , tore up their 
trees , fpoiled their indofures , and, in short, quite 
ruined them of every thing they had. Had thefe 
people met together, no doubt but there would have 
been a bloody battle •, but Providence ordered it for 
the better for juft as the three were got thither , 
the two were at our caftle ; and, when they left us, 
the three came back again , but in a great rage , 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. *49 

fc'offingly telling us -what they had done •, when one 
taking hold of a Spaniard’s hat , twirls it round , fay- 
ing , And you , Seignior , Jack Spaniard , shall have the 
fame fauce , if you don’t mend your manners. My Spa- 
niard , a grave , but courageous man , knocked him 
down with one blow of his fift > at which another 
villain fired his piftol , and narrowly miffed his body , 
but wounded him a little in the ear. Hereat enraged, 
the Spaniard takes up the fellow’s musket whom he 
had knocked down , and would have shot him , if I 
and the reft had not come out , and taken their arms 
from every one of them. 

Thefe Englishmen, perceiving they had made all of 
us their enemies, began to cool - , but , notwithftand- 
ing their better words , the Spaniards would not re- 
turn them their arms again, telling them, they would 
do them no manner of harm , if they would live 
peaceably, but, ifthey offered any injury to the plan- 
tation or caftle , they would shoot them as they 
would do ravenous beafts. This made them fo mad, 
that they went away raging like furies of hell. They 
were no fooner gone , but in came the two honeft 
men , fired with the jufteft rage , if fuch can be , ha- 
ving been ruined as aforefaid. And , indeed , it was 
very hard , that nineteen of us should, -be bullied 
by three villains , continually offending with impu- 
nity. 

It was a great while, Sir, before we could perfuade 
the two Englishmen from purfuing, and undoubtedly 
killing them with their fire arms •, but we prOmifed 
them juftice should be done them, and in the mean 

L 5 


Digitized by Google 


2jo LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

time they should refide -with us in our habitation. 
In about five days after, thefe three vagrants, almoft 
ftarved with hunger , drew near our grove, and per- 
ceiving me , the governor , and two others, walking 
by the fide of the creek , they very fubmiflively de- 
fired to be received into the family again. "We 
told them of their great incivility to us , and of their 
unnatural barbarity to their countrymen •, but yet 
we would fee what the reft agreed to , and in half 
an hour’s time would bring them word. After fome 
debate, we called them in , where their two coun- 
trymen laid a heavy charge againft them , for not 
only ruining , but defigning to murder them , which 
they could not deny. But here I was forced to 
interpofe as a mediator, by obliging the two English- 
men not to hurt them , being naked and unarmed ; 
and that the other three should make them reftitu- 
tion , by building their two huts , and fencing their 
ground in the fame manner as it was before. 'Well , 
being in a miferable condition , they fubmitted to 
this at prefent , and lived fome time regularly enough, 
except as to the working part , which they did not 
care for, but the Spaniards would have difpenfed 
with that, had they continued eafy and quiet. Their 
arms being given them again , they fcarce had them 
a week , when they became as troublefome as ever; 
but an accident happening foon after, obliged us to 
lay afide private refentments , and look to our com- 
mon prefervation. 

One night , Sir , I went to bed , perfe&ly well in 
.health, and yet by no means could Icompofe myfelf 


Digitized by Google 



r 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

tb fleep. Upon which, being very uneafy , I got up 
and looked out-, but it being dark, I could perceive 
nothing but the trees around our caftle. I went to 
bed again •, but , it was all one , I could not fleep ; 
•when one of my Spaniards , hearing me walk about, 
asked who it was up ? I anfwered , It is I. "When 
I told him the occalion ; Sir , faid he , fuch things 
are not to be flighted ; for certainly there is fome 
mifchief plotting near us. Where are the English- 
men? faid I. He anfwered, in their huts; for they 
lay feparate from us. Sir, fince the laft mutiny. Well, 
faid I , fome kind fpirit gives this information , for 
our advantage. Come , let us go abroad, and fee if 
any thing offers to juftify our fears. Upon which I 
andfome of my Spaniards went up the mountain, not 
by the ladder , but through the grove ; and then we 
were flruck with a panic fear , on feeing a light , 
as though it were a fire , at a very little diftance ,. 
and hearing the voice of feveral men. Hereupon we 
retreated immediately , and railing the reft of our 
forces , made them fenfible of the impending danger; 
but , with all my authority ,. I could not make them 
ftay where they were , fo earneft were they to fee 
how things went. Indeed, the darknefs of the night 
gave them opportunity enough to view them (by 
the light of the fire ) undiscovered. As they were 
in different parties , and draggling over the shore , 
we were much afraid that they should find out our 
habitations , and deftroy our flocks of goats. To 
prevent which , we fent an Englishman and two Spa- 
niards to drive the goats into the valley where the 


Digitized by Google 


aji LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

cave lay ; or , if there was occafion , into the cave 
itfelf. As to ourfelves, refuming our native courage , 
and prudent conduft, had we not been divided , we 
durft venture to attack an hundred of them ; but , be- 
fore it was yet light, we refolved to fend out Friday’s 
father as a fpy , who, immediately, Gripping himfelf 
naked , gets among them undifcovered , and , in two 
hours time , brings word , that they were two parties 
of two different nations, who lately having a bloody 
battle with one another , happened to land , by mere 
chance, in the fame ifland, to devour their miferable 
prifoners : That they were entirely ignorant of any 
perfon’s inhabiting here; but rather, being filled with 
rage and fury againft one another, he believed , that , 
as foon as day-light appeared, there would be a terri- 
ble engagement. Old Friday had fcarce ended his 
relation , when we heard an uncommon noife , and 
perceived , that there was a horrid engagement be- 
tween the two armies. 

Such was the curiofity of our party , efpecially the 
Englishmen, that they would not lie clofe , though 
Old Friday told them, their fafety depended upon it ; 
and that , if we had patience , we should behold the 
favages kill one another. However, they ufed fome 
caution , by going further into the woods, and pla- 
cing themfelves in a convenient place to behold the 
battle. 

Never could thefe be a more bloody engagement, 
nor men of more invincible fpirits, and prudent con- 
duct, according to their way and manner of fighting. 
It lafted near two hours, till that party which was 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. in 

near eft to our caftle began to decline . and , at laft , to 
fly from their conquerors. We were undoubtedly 
put into a great confternation on this account, left / 
they should run into our grove , and confequently 
bring us into the like danger. Hereupon we refolved 
to kill the firft that came, to prevent difcovery ; and 
that too with our fwords , and the butt end of our 
muskets , for fear the report of our guns should be 
heard. 

And fo indeed , as we thought , it happened : for 
three of the Vanquished army crofting the creek, ran 
dire&ly to-the place, as to a thick wood , for shelter j 
nor was it long before our fcout gave us notice of it ; 
as alfo , that the vi&ors did not think fit to purfue 
them. Upon this I would not fuffer them to be 
flain , but had them furprifed and taken by our par- 
ty : and afterwards they proved very good fervants 
to us , being ftout young creatures , and able to do a 
great deal of work. The remainder of the conquer- 
ed favages fled to their canoes, and put out into the 
ocean, while the conquerors, joining together,shout- 
ed by way of triumph : and about three in the after- 
noon , they alfo embarked for their own nation. 
Thus we were freed at once from the favages and 
our fears , not perceiving any of thefe creatures for 
fome confiderable time after. We found two and 
thirty men dead in the field of battle ; fome were 
flain with long arrows , which we found flicking in 
their bodies •, and the reft were killed with great un- 
weildy wooden fwords , which denoted their vaft 
ftrength , and of which we found feventeen , befides 


a?4 LIFE AND ADVENTURES'* 

bows and arrows : but we could not find one wound-? 
ed creature among them alive ; for they either kill 
their enemies quite, or carry thofe wounded away 
with them. 

This terrible fight tamed the Englishmen for fome 
time , confidering how unfortunate they might have 
been, had they fallen into their hands, who would not 
only kill them as enemies , but alfo for food , as we 
do cattle ; and, indeed , fo much did this naufeate. 
their ftomachs, that it not only made them very lick, 
but more tradable to the common necefiary bufinefs 
pf the whole fociety , planting, fowing, and reaping,, 
with the greateft figns ot amity and friendship : fo 
that now, beingall good friends, we began to confider 
of circumftances in general *, and the firft thing we 
thought of, was, whether, as we perceived, the rava- 
ges haunted that fide of the ifland , and there being 
more retired parts of it, and yet as well fuited to our 
manner of living , and equally to our advantage , we 
ought not rather to move our place of refidence , and 
plant it in a much fafer place, both for the fecurity of 
our corn and cattle. 

After a long debate on this head , it was rcfolved, 
or rather voted , nemine contradicente , not to remove 
our ancient caftle, and that for this very good reafon, 
that , fome time or other , we expeded to hear from 
our fupreme governor , ( meaning you , Sir ) whofe 
meffengers not finding us there , might think the 
place demolished, and all his fubjeds deftroyed by 
the favages. 

, As to the next concern , relating to our corn and*. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ajj 

Rattle , we confented to have them removed to the 
valley where the cave was , that being moft proper 
and fufiicient for both. But yet, when we conli- 
dered further , we altered one part of our refolution j 
which was , to remove part of our cattle thither, and 
plant only part of our corn there; fo that in cafe 
one part was deftroyed, the other might be preferved. 
Another refolution we took, which really had a great 
deal of prudence in it ; and that was , in not trufting 
the three favages whom we had taken prifoners , 
with any knowledge of the plantations which we 
had made in that valley, of what number of cattle we 
had there, much lefs of the cave, wherein were kept 
feveral arms , and two barrels of powder you left for 
us , at your departure from this ifland. But though 
we would not change our habitation , we refolved 
to make it more fortified, and more fecret. To this 
end. Sir, as you had planted trees at fome difiance 
before the entrance of your palace ; fo we , imita- 
ting your example , planted and filled up the whole 
fpace of ground, even to the banks of the creek, nay, 
into the very ooze , where the tide flowed , not lea- 
ving a place for landing : and among thofe I had 
planted , they had intermingled fo many short ones, 
all of which growing wonderfully faft and thick , a 
little dog fcarcely could find a pafiage through them. 
Nor was this fufiicient , as we thought ; for we did 
the fame to all the ground, to the right and left hand 
, of us , even to the top of the hill , without fo much 
as leaving a pafiage for ourfelves, except by the lad- 
der : which being taken down, nothing but what had 


a 5 S LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

•wings or witchcraft coulffpretendto come near us^ 
And , indeed , this was exceedingly well contrived , 
efpecially to ferve that occafion, for which we after- 
wards found it neceflary. 

Thus we lived two years in a happy retirement, 
having , all this time , not one vifit from the favages. 
Indeed , one morning , we had an alarm , which put 
us in fome amazement ; for a few of my Spaniards 
being out very early, perceived no lefsthan twenty 
canoes, as it were coming on shore •, upon which re- 
turning home, with great precipitation, they gave us 
the alarm , which obliged us to keep at home all that 
day, and the next, going out only in the night-time, 
to make our obfervations : but, as good luck wbuld 
have it, they were upon another delign, and did not 
land that time upon the illand. 

But now there happened another quarrel between 
the three wicked Englishmen , and fome of my Spa- 
niards. The occafion was this : One of them being 
enraged at one of the favages , whom he had taken 
prifoner , for not being able to comprehend forne- 
thing which he was shewing him , fnatched up a 
hatchet in a great fury , not to corredl , but to kill 
him ; yet miffing his head , gave him.ftich a barba- 
rous cut in the shoulder , that he had like to have 
flruck off his arm •, at which one of my good-natured 
Spaniards interpofing between the Englishman and 
favage, befeeched the former not to murder the poor 
creature •, but this kindnefs had like to have coft 
the-Spaniard his life , for the Englishman ftruck at 
him in the fame manner which he nimbly and 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. aj7 
wifely avoiding , returned fuddenly upo n him with hi s 
shovel, (being all at workabout their corn-land),and 
very fairly knocked the brutish creature down. 
Hereupon , another Englishman , coming to his fel- 
low’s afliftance, laid the goodSpaniard on the earth ; 
when immediately two others coming to his relief, 
were attacked by the third Englishman , armed with 
an old cutlafs , who wounded them both. This up- 
roar foon reached our ears , when we , rushing out 
upon them , took the three Englishmen pj-ifoners : 
and then our next queftion was, what should be done 
to fuch mutinous and impudent fellows , fo furious , 
defperate , and idle , that they were mifchievous to 
the higheft degree, andconfequently not fafe for the 
fociety to let them live among them. 

Now , Sir , as I was governor in your abfence , fo 
I alfo took the authority of a judge-, and, having 
them brought before me , I told them , that if they 
had been of my country, I would have hanged every 
mother’s fon of them but , fince it was an English- 
man ( meaning you , kind Sir) to whom we were in- 
debted for our prefervation and deliverance, I would 
in gratitude , ufe them with all poffible mildnefs but, 
at the fame time , leave them to the judgment of the 
other two Englishmen, who, I hoped, forgetting their 
refentments , would deal impartially by them. 

Hereupon , one-of his countrymen flood up : Sir , 
faidhe , leave it not to us , for you may be fenfible we 
have reafon to fentence them to the gallows : befides , 
Sir , this fellow , Will. Atkins , and the two others , 
propofed to us , that we might murder you all in your 


Digitized by Google 


ayfr EIFE AND ADVENTURES? 

fieep , which we would not confent to ; but , knowing 
their inability , and your vigilance , we did not think 
Jit to difcover it before now. 

How , Seignior , faid I , do you hear what is alled- 
ged againft you ? What can you fay to juftify To hor- 
rid an a&ion , as to murder us in cold blood ? So far , 
Sir , was the wretch from denying it , that he fwore , 
d— n him but he would do it ftill. But what have 
ve done to you , Seignior Atkins , faid I , or what 
will you gain by killing us ? What shall we do 
to prevent you ? Muft we kill you , or you kill us * 
Whywill you , Seignior Atkins , (faid I finding) , pur 
us to fuch an unhappy dilemma , fuch a fatal neceili-’ 
ty ? But fo great a rage did my fcoffing, and yet fe- 
vere jeft , put him into, that he was going to fly at 
tne , and undoubtedly had attempted to kill me if he 
had been poffefled of weapons, and had not been pre- 
vented by three Spaniards. This unparallelled and 
villainous carriage , made us ferioufly confider whar 
was to be done. The two Englishmen and the Spa- 
niard , who had faved the poor Indian’s life, mightily- 
petitioned me to hang one of them , for an example 
to the others, which should be him that had twice at- 
tempted to commit murder with his hatchet , it being 
at that time thoughtimpoffible the poor flave should 
recover. But they could never gain my confent to 
put him to death , for the reafons above mentioned, 
fince it was an Englishman (even yourfelf) who was 
my deliverer : and as merciful counfels are mod pre- 
vailing, when earneftly preffed , fo I got them to be 
of the fame opinion as to clemency. But to prevent* 


Digitized by GoogI< 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

their doing us any farther mifchief , we all agreed , 
that they should have no weapons , as fword , gun , 
powder, or shot , but be expelled from the Society, to 
live as they pleafed, by themfelves •, that neither the- 
two Englishmen, nor the reft of the Spaniards, should 
have converfation with them upon any account what- 
soever: that they should be kept from coming within 
a certain diftance of our caftle ; and if they dared to 
offer us any violence , either by Spoiling , burning, 
killing , or deftroying any of the corn , plantings, 
buildings , fences , or cattle belonging to the Society,' 
we would shoot them as freely as we would do beafts 
of prey , in whatsoever places we should find them^ 
This Sentence Seemed very juft to all but them-' 
Selves', when , like a merciful judge , I called out to 
the two honeft Englishmen , faying , You muft confi- 
der they oughtnot to be£arved neither ; and fince it 
trill be Some time before they can raife corn and cat- 
tle of their own , let us give them Some corn to laft 
them eight months , and for feed to Sow , by which 
time they’ll raife Some for themfelves : let us alfo be- 
ftow upon them fix milch-goats , four he-ones , and 
fix kids , as well for their prefent Support , as for a 
further increafe with tools neceffary for their work, 
as hatchets , an axe , Saw , and other things conveni- 
ent to build them huts : all which were agreed to ; 
but before they took them in pofiefiion, I obliged 
them Solemnly to Swear , never to attempt any thing 
againft us or their countrymen for the future. Thus 
difmifiing them from our Society , they went away , 
fullenandrefra&ory , as though neither willing to get 


Digitized by Google 


a6o LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

nor flay : however . feeing no remedy , they took 
what provifion was given them , propofing to chufe 
a convenient place, where they might live by them- 
felves. 

About five days after , they came to thofe limits 
appointed , in order for more vi&uals , and fent me 
word by one of my Spaniards, whom they called to, 
where they had pitched their tents.and marked them- 
felves out an habitation , and plantation , at the N. E. 
and moll remote part of the ifland. And indeed 
there they built themfelves two very handl'ome cot- 
tages ,refembling our little caftle , being under the 
fide of a mountain , with fome trees already growing 
on three fides of it j fo that planting a few more , it 
would be obfeured from fight , unlefs particularly 
fought for. When thefe huts were finished , we gave 
them fome dry goat skins for bedding and covering; 
and upon their giving us fuller afiurances of their 
good behaviour (or the future , we gave them fome 
peafe , barley , and rice for fowing , and whatever 
tools we could fpare. 

Six months did they live in this feparate condition, 
in which they got their firft harveft in , the quantity 
of which was but finall , becaufe they had planted 
but little land : for indeed, all their plantations be- 
ing to form , made it the more difficult , efpecially as 
it was a thing out of their element : and when they 
were obliged to make their boards and pots &c. they 
could make little or nothing of it. But the rainy 
feafon coming on, put them into a greater perplexity 
for want of a cave to keep their corn dry,and prevent 


Digitized by Goo 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 161 

it from fpoiling : and fo much aid this humble them, 
that they begged of my Spaniards to help them, , to 
which the good-natured men readily consented, and, 
in four days lpace, worked a great hole in the fide of 
the hill for them , large enough for their purpofe^ to 
fecure their corn and other things from the rain, tho* 
not comparable to ours, which had feveral additional 
apartments. 

But a new whimpoffeffed thefe rogues about three 
quarters of a year after , which had like to have ru- 
ined us, and themfelves too : for , it feems be.ng tired 
and weary of this fort of living, which made them 
work for themfelves,without hopes of changing their 
condition.nothing would ferve them, but they would 
make a voyage to the continent , and try if they could 
Seize upon fome of the favages , and bring them over 
■as flares , to do .their drudgery , while they lived at 
eafe andpleafure. 

Indeed the projeft was not fo prepoflerous , if they 
; had not gone farther; but they neither did , nor pro- 
posed any thing , but what had mifchief in the de- 
sign , or the event. One morning , thefe three fellows 
came down to the limited fiation , and humbly defi- 
red to be admitted tq talk with us , which we readi- 
ly granted ,;, they told us , in short , that, being tired 
of- their manner of living and the labour of their 
hands , in fqch, employments , not being fufficient to 
procure the necefl'aries of life , they only defired one 
of the canoes we came over in , with fome arms and 
ammunition , for their defence , and they would feek 
their fortunes abroad, and never trouble us any morq 


a 6z LIFE AND ADVENTURES 


To be fure , we were glad enough to get rid of fucfc 
Wretched plagues; but yet honefty made us ingenu- 
oufly reprefent to them , by what we ourfelves had 
fuffered , the certain deftru&ion they were running 
into , either of being ftarved to death, or murdered 
by the favages. To this they very audacioufly re- 
plied . that they neither could nor would work ; and 
consequent y , that they might as well be ftarved a- 
broad as at home : and as to their falling into the 
hands of the favages , why, if they were murdered , 
that was nothing to us , there was an end of them ; 
neither had they any wives or children to cry after 
them ; nay , fo intent were they upon their voyage, 
that if the Spaniards had not given them arms , fo 
they had but the canoe, they would have gone without 
them. t 

■ Though we could not well fpare our fire-arms, ra- 
ther than they should go like naked men, we let them 
have two muskets, a piftol , a cutlafs,and three hat- 
chets . which were thought very fufficient : we gave 
•them alfo goats flesh a great basket full of dried grapes, 
a pot of fresh butter , a young live kid , and a large 
canoe fufficient to carry twenty men. And thus, 
with a maft.madeof a long pole, -and a fail of fix 
large goats skins dried .having a fair breeze, and a 
•flood tide with them , they merrily failed away , the 
Spaniards calling after them Bon veyajo , no man ever 
^expefting to fee them more. ^ - 

When they were gone , the Spaniards and English- 
•men would often fay one to another , O how peace - 
ably do we now live , fince thofe. turbulent fellows have 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

left us ? Nothing could be farther from their 
thoughts , than to behold their faces any more •, and 
yetfcarcc two and twenty days hadpaffed over their 
heads , but one of the Englishmen , being abroad ar 
planting , perceived, at a diftance, three men , well 
armed , approaching towards him- Away he flies 
with fpeed to our caftle , and tells me and the reft t 
that we were all undone, for that ftrangers weie 
landed upon the ifland , and who they were he could 
not tell ; but added, that they were not favages , but 
men habited , bearing arms. "Why then , faid I , we 
have the lefsoccafton to be concerned, fince, if they 
are not Indians , they muft be friends ; for I am fore 
there is no Chriftian people upon earth , but what 
Will do us good rather than harm. But while we 
were confidermg of the event , up came the three 
Englishmen , whofe voices we quickly knew, and fo 
all our admiration of that nature ceafed at once. And 
our wonder was focceeded by another fort of enqui- 
ry ,which was , what could be the occafion of their re- 
turriing fo quickly to the ifland , when we little ex- 
pe&ed , and much lefs defired their company ? But 
as this was better to be related by themfelves , I or- 
dered them to be brought in , when they gave me 
the following relation of their voyage. 

After two days fail, or fomething lefs , they reach- 
ed land, where they found the people coming to give 
them another fort of reception than what they ex- 
pe&ed or defired : for as the favages were armed 
with bows and arrows : they durft not venture on 
shore, but fleered, northward,fix or feven hours , tijl 


164 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

they gained an opening , by which they plainly per- 
ceived , that the land that appeared from this place , 
was not the main land , but the ifland. At their en- 
trance into the opening of the fea , they difcovered 
another ifland , on the right hand northward , and 
feveral more lying to the weftward j but being re- 
folved to go on shore fome where or other , they 
put over to one of the weftern iflands. Here they 
found the natives very courteous to them , giving 
them feveral roots and dried fish •, nay , even their 
women too were as willing to fupply them with what 
they could procure them to eat, bringing it a great 
way to them upon their heads. Among thefe ho- 
fpitable Indians they continued fome days enquiring 
by ligns and tokens, what nations lay around them ; 
and were informed , that there were feveral fierce 
and terrible people lived every way , accuftomedto 
eat mankind : but for themfelves , they never ufed 
fuch diet , except thofe that were taken in battle,and 
of them they made a folemn feaft. . 

The Englishmen enquired how long it was fince 
they had a feaft of that kind ? they anfwered , about 
two moons ago pointing to the moon ; and then 
to two fingers i that , at this time , their king had two 
hundred prifoners , which were fattening up for the 
flaughter. The Englishmen were mighty defirous 
of feeing the prifoners, which the others miftaking, 
thought that they wanted fome of them for their own 
food : upon which they beckoned to them, pointing 
to the rifing , and then to the fetting of the fun ; 
meaning , that by the time that it appeared in the eaft 

next 


r 


1 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

■next morning they -would bring them fome : and 
indeed they were as good as their word ; for by that 
time they brought eleven men and five women, juft 
as fo many cows and oxen are brought to fea port 
towns, to visual a ship. But as brutish as thefe 
Englishmen were , their ftomachs turned at the fight. 
What to do in this cafe , they could not tell : to re- 
fufe the prifoners , would have been the higheft af- 
front offered to the favage gentry •, and to difpofe of 
them , they knew not in what manner : however, they 
refolved to accept them , and fo gave them , in re- 
turn , one of their hatchets , an old key ,»a knife , 
and fix or feven of their bullets : things which thof 
they were wholly ignorant of, yet feemed entirely 
contented with ; and dragging the poor wretches in- 
to the boat , with their hands bound behind them^ 
delivered them to the Englishmen. But this obliged 
, them to put off as foon as they had thefe prefents , 
left the donors should have expe&ed two or three of 
them to be killed , and to be invited to dinner the 
next day : and fo taking leave with all poflible re- 
fpeft and thanks , though neither of them underftood 
what the others faid , they failed away back to the 
firft ifland , and there fet eight of the prifoners at 
liberty. In their voyage they endeavoured to com- 
fort , and have fome converfation with the poor cap- 
tives •, but it was impoflible to make them fenfible of 
any thing ; and nothing they could fay , or give or 
do for them , could make them otherwife perfuaded, 
but that they were unbound only to be devoured : if 
they gave them any food, they thought it was only 


ized by Google 


266 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fo fatten them for the (laughter ; or looked at any 
one more particularly , the poor creature fuppofed 
jtfelf to be the firft facrifice •, and even when we 
brought them to our ifland , and began to ufe them 
with the greateft humanity and kindncfs , yet they 
pxpe&ed every day that their new inafters would 
devour them. 

And thus , Sir , did thefe three ftrange wanderers 
conclude their unaccountable relation of their voyage 
which was both amazing and entertaining. Here- 
upon , I asked them , where their new family was ? 
"They told me, they had put them into one of their 
huts , and they came to beg fome vidluals for them. 
This , indeed , made us all long to fee them •, and 
taking Friday’s father with us , leaving only two at 
pur caftle , we came down to behold thefe poor 
.creature?, , 

When we arrived at the hut , ( they being bound 
again by the Englishmen , for fear of efcaping) , we 
/found them dark naked , expe&ing their fatal tra- 
gedy : there were three lufty men, well shaped, with 
flraight and fair limbs , between thirty and five and 
thirty years old; andfive women, two of them might 
be from thirty to forty , two more not above four and 
twenty ;and the laft a comely tall maiden of about fe- 
•venteen.Indeed,all the women were very agreeable, 
both in their proportion and features , except that 
they were tawny, which their modeft behaviour and 
.other graces, made amends for, when they afterwards 
came to be clothed. 

This nakedappearance , together with their mifer- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 267 

able circumflances , was no very comfortable fight 
to my Spaniards , who , for their parts , I may ven- 
ture, Sir, without flattery, to fay, are men of the 
beft behaviour , calmeft tempers, and fweeteft na- 
ture , that can pofiibly be ; for they immediately or- 
dered Friday’s father to fee if he knew any of them, 
pr if he underftood what they could fay. Nofoon- 
er did the old Indian appear , but he looked at them 
with great ferioufnefs ; yet , as they were not of his 
nation , they were utter ftrangers to him , and none 
could underftand his fpeech or figns , but one wo- 
man. This was enough to anfwer the defign , 
which was to affure them they would not be killed , 
being fallen into the hands of Chriftians , who ab- 
horred fuch barbarity. "When they were fully fals- 
ified of this , , they exprefled their joy by fuch 
ftrange geftures , and uncommon tones , as it is not 
poflible for to medefcribe. But the woman, their 
interpreter , was ordered next to inquire , whether 
they were content to be fervants, and would work 
for the men , who had brought them hither to fave 
their lives ? Hereupon , (being at this time unbound) 
they fell a capering and dancing , one taking this 
thing upon her shoulders , and the other that , inti- 
mating , that they were willing to do any thing for 
them. But now , Sir , having women among us , and 
dreading that it might occafion fome ftrife , if not 
blood , I asked the three men what they would do , 
and how they intended to ufe thefe creatures , whe- 
ther as fervants or women } One of them very pert- 
ly and readily anfwered , they would ufe them as 

Mi 


Digitized by Google 


16$ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

both. Gentlemen , faid I , as you are your ownma* 
Hers , I am not going to reftrain you from that •, but, 
xnethinks , for avoiding diftentions among you , I 
Would only defire you to engage, that none of you 
Trill take more than one for a woman or a wife, and 
that having taken this one, none elfe should prefume 
to touch her ; for though we have not a prieftly au- 
thority to marry you , yet it is but reafonable , that 
whoever thus takes a woman , should be obliged to 
maintain her : fitice nobody elfe has any thing to do 
With her: and this, indeed, appeared fo juft to all pre- 
fent , that it was unanimoufly agreed to. The En- 
glishmen then asked my Spaniards, whether they 
defignedto take any of them ? but they anfwered , 
No ; fome declaring they had already wives in Spain ; 
and others , that they cared not to join with infidels. 
On thereverfe , the Englishmen took each of them a 
temporary wife , and :o fet up a new method of 
living. As to Friday’s father , the Spaniards , and 
the three favage fervants we had taken in the late 
battle , they all lived with me in our ancient caftle ; 
and indeed we fupplied the main part of the ifland 
with food , as neceflity required. But the moft re- 
markable part of the ftory is,how thefe Englishmen, 
who had been fo much at variance , should agree a- 
bout the choice of thefe women ; yet they took a 
way good enough to prevent quarreling among 
themfelves. They fet the five women in one of 
their huts , and going themfelves to the other , drew 
lots which should have the firft choice. Now, he 
that had the firft lot went ttf the hut , and fetched 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. a6<) 

out her he chofe ,and it is remarkable, that he took 
her that was the moft homely andeldeft of the num- 
ber , which made the reft of the Englishmen exceed* 
ing merry i the Spaniards themfelves could not but 
Emile at it : but , as it happened , the fellow had the 
beft thought , in chuling one fit for application and 
bufinefs : and indeed she proved the beft wife of all 
the parcel. 

But when the poor creatures perceived themfelves 
placed in a row, and feparated one by one, they were 
again feized with an unfpeakable terror , as now 
thinking they were going to be {lain in earneft : and 
*when the Englishman came to take the firft , the reft 
fet up a lamentable cry , clafped their arms around < 
her neck, and hanging about her, took their laft 
farewell , as they thought , in fuch trembling ago- 
nies , and affe&ionate embraces, as would have 
foftened the hardeft heart in the world , and made 
the dryeft eyes melt into tears ; nor could they be 
perfuaded , but that they were going to die , till fuch 
time as Friday’s father made them fenfible that the 
Englishmen had cholen them for their wives, which 
ended all their terror and concern upon this occa- 
sion. 

"Well , after this , the Englishmen went to work, 
and being affifted by my good natured Spaniards , in 
a few hours they erefted every one of them anew 
hut or tent , for their feparate lodging , fince thofe 
they had already were filled with tools ; houfehold 
fluff, and provifion. They all continued on the 
north shore of the ifland, but feparate as before; 

M 3 


-i Digitized by Google' 


XJO LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

the three wicked ones pitching farther off, and the 
two honeft men nearer our caftle; fo that the ifland 
feemed to be peopledin threeplaces, three towns be- 
ginning to be built for that purpofe. And here I 
cannot but remark , what is very common , that the 
two honeft men had. the worft wives , (I mean as to 
induftry , cleanlinefs , and ingenuity ) , while the 
three reprobates enjoyed women of quite contrary 
qualities. ; r , - - , 

But another obfervation I made was , in favour of 
the two honeft men , to shew what difparity there is 
Between a diligent application to bufinels , on the 
one hand , and a flothful , negligent , and idle tem- 
per , on the other. Both of them had the fame par- 
cel of ground laid out , and corn to fow , fufficient 
for them ; but both did not make the fame improve- 
ments , either in their cultivation or in their plant- 
ing. The two honeft men had a multitude of young 
trees planted about their habitations , fo that when 
you approached near them , nothing appeared but a 
wood , very plealing and delightful. Every thing 
they didprofperedand flourished; their grapes plant- 
ed in order, feemed as though managed in a vineyard, 
and were infinitely preferable to any of the others. 
Nor were they wanting to find out a place of retreat, 
but dug a cave in the moft retired part of a thick wood, 
to fecure their wives and children , with their provi- 
fion,andchiefeftgoods,furroundedwithinnumerabj e 
flakes , and having a moft fubtile entrance , in cafe 
any mifchief should happen , either from their fellow 
countrymen , or the devouring favages. 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ift 

As to the reprobates , ( though I muft own they 
were much more civilized than before) , infteadof af 
delightful wood furrounding their dwellings , we 
found the words of King Solomon too truly verified ; 
I went by the vineyard of the Jlothful , and it was all 
overgrown with thorns. In many places their crop 
was obfeured by weeds ; the hedges having feveral 
gaps in them , the wild goats had got in , and eaten: 
up the corn , and here and there was a dead bush 
to flop in thofe gaps for the prefent , which was no 
more than shutting the {table-door after the {teed 
was ftolen away. But as to their wives , they ( as I 
obferved before ) were more diligent, and cleanly 
enough, efpecially in their vi&uals, being inftru&cd 
b y one of the honeft men , who had been a cook’s 
mate on board a ship : and very well it wasfo •, for 
as he cooked himfelf, his companion and their fa- 
milies lived as well as the idle husbands, who did 
nothing but loiter about , fetch turtles eggs, catch 
fish and birds , and do any thing but work , and 
lived accordingly, while the diligent lived very hand- 
fomely and plentifully , in the molt comfortable 
manner. 

And now , Sir, I come to lay before your eyes, a: 
feene quite different from any thing that ever hap- 
pened to us before, and perhaps ever befel you in all 
the time of your refidence on this ifland. I shall inform 
you of its original in the following manner. 

One morning , Sir , very early, there came five or 
fix canoes of Indians on shore , indifputably upon 
their old cufiom of devouring their prifoners, All 

M 4 



*7* LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

that we had to do upon fuch an occafion , was to lie 
concealed , that they , not having any notice of in- 
habitants , might depart quietly , after performing 
their bloody execution : whoever firfl difeovered 
the favages , was to give notice to all the three 
plantations to keep within doors, and then a proper 
icout was to be placed to give intelligence of their 
departure. But , notwithftanding thefe wife mea- 
fures , an unhappy difafter difeovered us to the fa- 
vages , w hich was like to have caufed the defolation 
of the whole ifland : for, after the favages were 
gone off in their canoes, fome of my Spaniards and 
1 looking abroad , and being inflamed with a curio- 
sity to fee what they had been doing , to our great 
amazement , beheld three favages faft afleep on the 
ground , who , either being gorged , could not awake 
when the others went off , or having wandered too 
far into the woods , did not come back in time. 

What to do with them at firfl , we could not tell ; 
as for flaves , we had enough of them already ; and as 
to killing them , neither Chriftianity nor humanity 
■jvouldfuffer us to shed the blood of perfons who ne- 
ver did us wrong. We perceived they had no boat 
left them to tranfpor t them into their own nation; and 
that , by letting them wander about , they might dif- 
cover us , and inform the firfl favages that should 
happen to land upon the fame bloody occafion , 
which information might entirely ruin us; and there- 
fore I counfelled my Spaniards to fecure them , and 
fet them about fome work or other , till we could 
better difpofe of them. 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 273 

- Hereupon we all went back , and making them a- 
Wake , took them prisoners. It is impollible to ex- 
prefs thehorror they were in,efpecially when bound 
as thinking they were going to be murdered and 
eaten , but we foon eafed them of their fear as to that 
point. Ve firft took them to the bower , where 
the chief of our country-work lay , as keeping goats, 
planting corn , &c. and then carried them to the two 
Englishmens habitation , to help them in their bufi- 
nefs : but happy it was for us all , we did not carry 
them to our caftle , as by the fequel will appear. 
The Englishmen , indeed, found them work to do ; 
but whether they did not guard them ftri&ly , or 
■ that they thought they could not better themfelves , 
I cannot tell i but certainly one of them ran away into 
the woods , and they could not hearofhim for a long 
time after. 

, Undoubtedly, there was reafon enoughto fuppofe 
he got home in fome of the canoes , the favages re- 
turning in about four weeks time , and going off in 
the fpace of two days. You may be certain , Sir, 
this thought could not but terrify us exceedingly , 
and make us juftly conclude , that this favage would 
inform his countrymen of our abode in theifland , 
•how few and weak we were in companion to their 
numbers •, and we expe&ed it would not be long 
before the Englishmen would be attacked in their 
habitations : but the favages had not feen their place s 
of fafety in the woods , nor our caftle , which it was 
a great happinefs they did not know. 

Nor were we miftaken in our thoughts upon this 

M s 


Digitized by Google 



274 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
occafion •, for , about eight months after this , fix ca» 
noes , with about ten men in each canoe , came fail- 
ing by the north fide of the ifland , which they were 
never accuftomed to do before , and landed about an 
hour after fun-rife , near a mile from the dwelling of 
the two Englishmen , who , it feems , had the good 
fortune to difcover them about a league off; fothat 
it was an hour before they could attain the shore, and 
fome longer time before they could come at them. 
And now , being confirmed in this opinion , that they 
were certainly betrayed, they immediately bound the 
two Haves which were left, caufing two of the three 
men, whom they brought with the women,and who 
proved very faithful , to lead them with their wives, 
and other convemencies into their retired cave in 
the wood, and there to bind the two fellows hand and 
foot , till they had further orders. They then open- 
ed their fences ■, where they kept their milch goats, 
and drove them all out , giving the goats liberty to 
ramble in the woods , to make the favages believe 
that they were wild ones *, but the Have had given a 
truer information , which made them come to the 
very indofures. The two frighted men fent the 
other Have of the three , who had been with them by 
accident , to alarm the Spaniards , and defire their af- 
iiftance ■, in the mean time , they took their arms 
and ammunition , and made to the cave where they 
Jiad fent their wives, and fecuring their flaves , feated 
themfelves in a private place , from whence they 
might behold all the a&ions of the favages. Nor 
had they gone far , when afcending a riling ground, 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 17; 
they could fee a little army of Indians approach to 
their beautiful dwelling , and , in a few moments 
more, perceive the fame, and their furniture,to their 
unfpeakable grief , burning in a confuming flame t 
and when this was done , they fpread here and there, 
fearching every bush and place for the people , of 
whom , it was very evident , they had information. 

Upon which the two Englishmen, not thinking them- 
felves fecure where they flood, retreated about half 
a mile higher in the country, rightly concluding , 
that the farther the favages ftrolled , there would be 
leflfer numbers together : upon which they next took 
their fland by the trunk of an old tree , very hollow 
and large , whence they refolved to fee what would 
offer -, but they had not flood long there, before two 
favages came running diredlly towards them , as 
though having knowledge of their being there, who 

fcemed refolved to attack them ; a little farther weve '• - 

three more, and five more behind them again , aft 
running the fame way. It cannot be irhagined what 
perplexity the poor men were in at this fight, think- 
ing that if afliftance did not fpeedily come , their 
cave in the wood would be difeovered , and confe- 
quently all therein loft : fo they refolved to refill 
them there, and , when overpowered , to afeend to 
the top of the trees .Where they might defend theni- 
felves as long as their ammunition lafted, and fell 
their lives as dear as poflible to thofe devouring 
favages. Thus fixed in their refolution , they next 
confidered, whether they should fire at the firft two, 
or wait for the three , and fo take the middle party , 

JVI 6 


Digitized by Google 


276 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

by which the two firftand the five laft would be 
feparated. In this regulation the two favages alfo 
confirmed them , by turning a little to another part 
of the wood ; but the three , and the five after them, 
came dire£lly towards the tree. Hereupon they re- 
folved to take them in a direft line, as they approach- 
ed nearer , becaufe perhaps the firft shot might hit 
them all three ; and , upon this occafion , the man 
"who was to fire, charged his piece with three or four 
bullets. And thus , while they were waiting , the fa- 
vages came on , one of them was the runaway who 
had caufed all the mifehief ; fo they refolved he 
shouldnot efcape,if they bothfiredat once. Buthow- 
ever, though they did not fire together , they were 
ready charged ; when the firft that let fly , was too 
good a markfman to mifs his aim ; for he killed the 
foremoft outright, the fecond (who was the runaway 
Indian ) fell on the ground , being shot through the 
body, but not dead, and the third was a little wound- 
ed on 'the shoulder .who, fitting down on the ground, 
fell a fereaming in a moft fearful manner. The noife 
of the guns , which not only made the moft refound- 
- jng echoes , from one fide to another , but raifed 
the birds of all forts , fluttering with the moft con- 
fufed noife, fo much terrified the five favages behind, 
that they flood ftill at firft like fo many inanimate 
images. But when all things were in profound filen- 
ce , they came to the place where their companions 
lay •, and here , not being fenfible that they were 
liable to the fame fate , flood over the wounded 
plan , undoubtedly enquiring the occafion of his fad 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 177 
calamity ; and, ’tis as realonable tofuppofe , he told 
them , that it came by thunder and lightening from 
the gods , having never l'een nor heard of a gun be- 
fore, in the whole courfe of, their lives. By this 
time the Englishmen , having loaded their pieces , 
fired both together a fecond time, when feting them 
all fall immediately on the ground , they thought 
they had killed every creature of them. This made 
them come up boldly before they had charged their 
guns, which , indeed , was a wrong ftep •, for , when 
they came to the place , they found four alive , two 
of them very little wounded, and one not at all, 
which obliged them to fall upon them with their 
muskets : they firft knocked the runaway favage 
on the head, and another that wasbut a little wound- 
ed in the arm , and then put the other languishing 
wretches out of their pain : while he that was not 
hurt , with bending knees, and uplifted hands , made 
piteous moans, and fignsto them to fpare his life : 
nor, indeed, were they unmerciful to the poor wretch, 
but pointed to him to fit down at the root of a tree 
hard by •, and then , one of the Englishmen , with a 
piece of rope twine he had in his pocket by mere 
chance, tying his two feet faft together , and his two 
hands behind him , they left him there , making all 
the hade they could after the other two, fearing they 
should find out their cave-,but though they could 
not overtake them , they had the fatisfa&ion to per- 
ceive them , at a diftance ,crofs a valley towards the 
fea , a quite contrary way to their retreat; upon 
,which they returned to the tree , to look after their 


digitized by Google 


17$ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
prifoner ; but when they came there , he was gone, 
leaving the pieces of rope-yarn wherewith he was 
bound , behind him. 

"Well, now they were as much concerned as ever, 
as not knowing how near their enemies might be, or 
in what numbers. Immediately they repaired to their 
cave , to fee if all was well there , and found every 
thing fafe except the women , who were frighted 
upon their husbands account, whom now they loved 
entirely. They had not been long here, before feven 
of my Spaniards came to affift them ; while the other 
ten, their fervants, and Friday’s father, were gone to 
defend their bower , corn and cattle, in cafe the fa- 
vages should have rambled fo far. There accom- 
panied the feven Spaniards , one of the three favages 
that had formerly been taken prifoner ; and with 
them alfo , that very Indian whom the Englishmen 
had, a little before, left under the tree •, for, itfeems, 
they paffed by that way where the {laughter was 
made , and fo carried along with them that poor 
wretch that was left bound. But fo many prifoners 
now becoming a burthen to us , and fearing the 
dreadful confequence of their efcaping , moll of the 
Spaniards and English urged the abfolute neceffity 
there w'as of killing them for our common preferva- 
tion : but , Sir , the authority I bore , as a governor , 
over-ruled that piece of cruelty ; and then I ordered 
them to be fent prifoners to the old cave in the valley, 
bound hands and feet, with two Spaniards to guard 
them. 

So much encouraged were the Englishmen at the 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 279 
approach of the Spaniards , and fo great was their fu- 
ry againft the favages , for deftroying their habita- 
tions , that they had not patience to ftay any longer; 
but , taking five Spaniards along with them , armed 
with four muskets, a piftol, and a quarter-ftaff, away 
they went in purfuit of their enemies. As they paf- 
fed by the place where the favages were flain, it was 
very eafy to be perceived that more of them had been 
there, having attempted to carry off their dead bodies, 
but found it impradlicable. From a rifing ground, 
our party had the mortification to fee the fmoke that 
proceeded from the ruins ; when coming farther in 
fight of the shore, they plainly perceived that the fa- 
vages had embarked in their canoes, and were putting 
out to fea. This they were very forry for , there be- 
ing no coming at them to give them a parting falute ; 
but, however, they were glad enough to get clear of 
fuch unwelcome guefts. 

Thus the twohoneft, but unfortunate, Englishmen, 
being ruined a fecond time , and their improvements 
quite deftroyed , moft of my good-natured Spaniards 
helped them to rebuild , and we all aflifted them with 
needful fupplies; nay, whatis more remarkable, their 
three mifchievous countrymen, when they heard it, 
(which was after all thefe dilafters were over,theyfi. 
ving remote eaftward ) very friendly fympathifed 
with them, and worked for them feveral days : fothat, 
in a little time, their habitation was rebuilt , their 
neceffities fupplied , and themfelves reftored to their 
former tranquillity. 

Though the favages had nothing to boaft of in 


/ 


Digitized by Google 


2Sa LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
this adventure, ( feveral canoes being driven ashore, 
followed by two drowned creatures , having un- 
doubtedly met with a ftorm at fea that very night 
they departed! yet it was natural to be fuppofed,that 
thofe whofe better fortune it was to attain their na- 
tive shore , would inflame their nstion to another 
ruinous attempt , with a greater force , to carry all 
before them. And , indeed , fo it happened ; for , 
about feven months after, our ifland was invaded with 
a moft formidable navy, no lei's than eightand twen- 
ty canoes full of favages,armed with wooden fwords, 
monftrous clubs , bows and arrows , and fuch like 
inftruments of war , landing at the eaft fide of the 
ifland. 

You may well , Sir , imagine , what conflernation 
our men were in upon this account , and how fpeedy 
they were to evecute their refolution, having only 
that night’s time allowed them. They knew , that 
fince they could not withftand their enemies , con- 
cealment was the only way to procure their fafety : 
and, therefore, they took down the huts that were 
built for the two Englishmen , and drove their flock 
of goats, together with their own at the bower, to the 
old cave in the valley, leaving as little appearance of 
inhabitants as poflible ; and then polled thcmfelves , 
with all their force, at the plantation of the two men. 
As they expe&ed, fo it happened-, for, early the next 
morning, the Indians, leaving their canoes at the eaft 
end of the ifland , came running along the shore , 
about two hundred and fifty in number, as near as 
$ould be gueffed. Our army was but little indeed $ 


IJ 

h 

t 

* 

J : 

mi 

iti 


:c 

e$ 

eo 

ex 

;ai 

ras 

rfi 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 181 

and what was our greater misfortune, we had not 
arms fufficient for them. The account , as to the 
men , Sir , is as follows : 


1 7 Spaniards. 


II Muskets . 

5 Englishmen. 


5 PifloLs. ' ' 

I Old Friday. 


3 Fowling-pieces. 

3 The three favages , ta- 

*«* 

* 

2 Swords. 

ken with the women , 

% 

3 Old halberts. 

who proved faithful 

-c 

w 

j Muskets , or fowling- 

fervants. 

5 

pieces , taken from the 

■ 3 Other flaves , living 

r O 

failors whom you re- 

with the Spaniards. 


duced. 


As to our flaves , we gave three of them halberts , 
and the other three long flaves , with great iron 
fpikes at the end of them , with hatchets by their 
fldes: we alfo had hatchets flicking in our girdles , 
befides*the fire-arms : nay , two of the women, in- 
fpired with Amazonian fortitude , could not be dif- 
fuaded from fighting along with their deareft huf- 
bands, and if they died, to die with them. Seeing 
their refolution, we gave them hatchets likewife-, but 
what pleafed them beft , were the bows and arrows 
(which they dexteroufly knew how to ufe) that the 
Indians had left behind them , after their memorable 
battle one againft another. 

Over this army, which, though little, was of great 
intrepidity . I was conftituted chief general and com- 
mander -, and knowing Will. Atkins, though ..x.eed- 
ing wicked , yet a man of invincible courage , I gave 
him the power of commanding under me : he and 


Digitized by Google 




a8i LIFE AND ADVENTURE 5 

fixmen, with their muskets loaded, with fix or feveii 
bullets a-piece, were planted juft behind a fmall thick- 
et of bushes, as an advanced guard, having orderi 
to let the firft pafs by *, and then , when he fired into 
the middle of them ,- make a nimble retreat round 
part of the wood, and fo come in the rear of the 
Spaniards , who were shaded by a thicket of trees : 
for though the favages came on with the fiercenefs of 
lions , yet they wanted the fubtilty of foxes , being 
cut of all manner of order, and ftraggiing in heaps 
every way : and, indeed, when Will. Arkins, after fifty 
of the lavages had pafled by, had ordered three of his 
men to give fire , fo great was their confternation , to 
fee fo many men killed and wounded , and hear fuch 
a dreadful noife , and yet not know whence it came , 
that they were frightened to the higheft degree ; 
and when the fecond volley was given , they con- 
cluded no lefs but that their companions were flain 
by thunder and lightening from heaven. In this no- 
tion they would have continued , had Will. Atkins 
and his men retired, as fcon as they fired, according 
to order : or had the reft been near them , to pour 
in the r shot continually, there might have been a 
complete vittory obtained ; but flaying to load their 
pieces again, difcovered the whole matter. They 
were perceived by fome of the fcattering favages at a 
diftance , who let fly their arrows among them , 
Wounded Atkins himfelf , and killed his fellow Eng- 
lishman, and one of the Indians taken with the wo- 
men. Our party did not fail to anfwer them , and in 
their retreat killed about twenty favages. Here I can- 


Digitized by Google 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 2S3 

not but take notice ofour poof dying flave,who,tho’ 
ftopt from his retreat by a fatal arrow , yet with his 
ftaff and hatchet defperately and gallantly affailed the 
purfuers , and killed five of the favages , before his 
life fubmitted to a multiplicity of wounds. Nor is 
the cruelty or malice of the Indians to be lefs re- 
marked , in breaking the arms , legs , and heads of 
the two dead bodies with their clubs and woodea 
fwords , after a moft wretched manner. As Atkins 
retreated, our party advanced, tointerpofe between 
him and the favages ; but , after three volleys , we 
were obliged to retreat alfo : for they were fo nume? 
rous and defperate , that they came up to our very 
teeth, shot their arrows like a cloud, and their wound- 
ed men , enraged with cruel pain , fought like mad- 
men. They did not , however , think fit to follow 
us , but drawing themfelves up in a circle , they gave 
two triumphant shouts in token of viftory , though 
they had the grief to fee feveral of their wounded 
men bleed to death before them. 

After I had , Sir , drawn up our little army toge- 
ther upon a rifing ground, Atkins, wounded as he 
was, would have had us attack the whole body of the 
favages at once. I was extremely well pleafed with 
the gallantry of the man *, but , upon confideration, I 
replied , You perceive , Seignior Atkins , how their 
wounded men fight ; let them alone till morning , when 
they will be faint , ftiff, and fore , and then we shall 
have fewer to combat with. To which Will. Atkins , 
fmiling replied. That’s very true , Seignior , and fo 
shall I too i and that’s the reafon / would fight them 


Digitized by GoogI 


2S4 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

now I am warm. We all anfwered , Seignior Atkins , 
for your part, you have behaved very gallantly; and, 
if you are not able to approach the enemy in the 
morning, we will fight for you , till then we think it 
convenient to wait , and fo we tarried. 

By the brightnefs of the moon that night, we per? 
ceived the favages in great diforder about their dead 
and wounded men. This made us change our refiot- 
lution, and refolve to fall upon them in the night, 
if we could give them one volley undifcovered. This 
we had a fair opportunity to do , by one of the two 
Englishmen’s leading us round , between the woods 
and the fea-fide weftward , and turning short fouth , 
came privately to a place where the thickeft of them 
were. Unheard and unperceived , eight of us fired 
among them , and did dreadful execution ; and , in 
half a minute after , eight more of us let fly , killing 
and wounding abundance of them ; and then divi- 
ding ourfelves into three bodies, eightperfons in each 
body, we marched from among the trees to the very 
teeth of the enemy, fending forth the greateft shouts 
and acclamations. The favages hearing a different 
noife from three quarters at once , flood in the ut- 
mofl confufion ; but coming in fight of us , let fly a 
volley of arrows , which wounded poor old Friday, 
yet happily it did not prove mortal. We did not, 
however,give them afecond oppor tunity;but rushing 
in among them, we fired three feveral ways,andthen 
fell to work with our fwords , flaves , hatchets , and 
the butt end of our muskets , with a fury not to be 
refilled ; fo that , with the mofldifmal fcreaming and 


Digitized by Gooq 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOR. iSf 

howling, they had recourfe to their fetft, to fairs their 
lives by a fpeedy flight. Nor mull -we forget the va- 
lour of the two women-, for they expot'ed themfel ves 
to the greateft dangers, killed many with their arrows, 
and valiantly dertroyed feveral more with their hat- 
chets. 

In fighting thefe two battles , we were fo much 
tired, that we did not then trouble ourfelves to pur- 
fue them to their canoes, in which we thought they 
wouldprefently put to the ocean •, but there happen- 
ing a dreadful ftorm at fea, which continuing all that 
night, it not only prevented their voyage, but dashed 
feveral of their boats to pieces againft the beach , 
and drove the reft fo high upon the shore , that it 
required infinite pains to get them off. After our 
men had taken fome refreshment and a little repofe^ 
•they refolved early in rhe morning to go towards the 
place of their landing , and fee whether they were 
gone off , or in what pofture they remained. This 
neceflarily led them to the place of battle , where 
Several of the favages were expiring : a fight no way 
pleafing to generous minds, to delight in their mifery, 
though obliged to conquer them by the lawof.arms: 
but our own Indian flaves put them out of theirpain , 
by difpatching them with rheir hatchets. At length , 
•coming in view of the remainder of rheir army , we 
found them leaning upon their knees , which were 
bended towards their mouth, and the head between 
the two hands. Hereupon , coming within musket- 
shot of them , I ordered two pieces to be fired with- 
out ball , iq order to alarm them, that we might 


*T 


Digitized by Google 


*86 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

plainly know, whether they had the courage to ven- 
ture- another battle , or were utterly difpirited from 
fuch an attempt , that fo we might accordingly ma- 
nage them. And, indeed, the proje& took very well} 
for, no fooner did the favages hear the firft gun , and 
perceive the flash of the fecond , but they iuddenly 
ftarted upon their feet, in the greateft confternation; 
and when we approached towards them , they ran 
yowling and fcreaming away up the hill into the 
country. 

We could rather , at firft , have wished , that the 
weather had permitted them to have gone off to the 
fea -, but when we confidered, that their efcape might 
occafionthe approach of multitudes, to our utter ruin 
and diffolution , we were very well pleafed the con- 
frary happened : and Will. Atkins ( who , though 
wounded , would not part from us all this while) ad- 
vifed us not to let flip this advantage , but clapping 
between them and their boats , deprive them of the 
capacity of ever returning to plague the ifland : I 
know , (faid he) there is but one objection you can make t 
ivhich is , that thefe creatures , living like beafts in the 
wood . , may make excurfions , rifle the plantations , and 
deftroy the tame goats : but then confider , we had better 
to do with an hundred men , whom we can kill , or make 
flaves of, at leifure , than with an hundred nations, whom 
it is impojjible we should fave ourf elves from , much left 
fubdue. This advice , and thefe arguments being ap- 
proved of ,we fet fire to their boats; and though they 
■were fo wet that they would not burn entirely, yet 
we made them incapable for fwimming in the feas. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. *87 

As- Toon as the Indians perceived what we were doing, 
many of them ran out of the woods , in fight of us , 
and, kneeling down piteoufly, cried out, Oa y oa , Wa- 
ramakoa , intimating , I fuppofe , that , if we would 
but fpare their canoes , they would never trouble us 
again. 

But all their complaints , fubmiflions , and entiea- 
ties, were in vain : for felf prefervation obliging us 
to the contrary, we deftroy ed every one of them that 
had efcaped the fury of the ocean. When the In- 
dians perceived this , they raifed a lamentable cry, 
and ran into the woods , where they continued ran- 
ging about , making the woods ring with their la- 
mentation. Here we should have confidered, that 
making thefe creatures thus defperate , we ought, a(; 
the fame time , to have fet a fufficient guard upon 
the plantations : for the favages , in their ranging 
about , found out the bower , deftroyed the fences , 
trod the corn down under their feet , and tore up 
the vines and grapes. It is true, we were always able 
to fight thefe creatures ; but , as they were too fwift 
for us, and very numerous, we durft not go out fingle, 
for fear of them ; though that too was needlefs, they 
having no weapons, nor any materials to make them; 
and, indeed, their extremity appeared in a little time 
.after. 

Though the favages , as already mentioned , had 
deftroy ed our bower , and all our corn , grapes , &c . 
yet we had ftill left our flock of cattle in the valley 
J>y the cave ; with fome little corn that grew there, 
and the plantation of Will. Atkins and his com* 


488 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

panions , one of whom being killed by an arrow , 
they were now reduced to two : it is remarkable , 
that this was the fellow who cut the poor Indian with 
his hatchet, and had a defign to murder me and my 
countrymen the Spaniards. As our condition was 
fo low , we came to the refolution to drive the rava- 
ges up to the farther part of the ifiand, where no In- 
dians landed : to kill as many of them as we could , 
till we had reduced their number ; and then to give 
the remainder fome corn to plant, and to teach them 
how to live by their daily labour. Accordingly , we 
purfued them with our guns , at the hearing of 
which , they were fo terrified , that they would fall 
to the ground. Every day we killed and wound- 
ed fome of them , and many we found ftarved to 
death , fo that our hearts began to relent at the fight 
of fuch miferable objefts. At laft , with great diffi- 
culty , taking one of them alive , and ufing him with 
kindnefs and tendernefs , we brought him to Old 
Friday , who talked to him , and told him , how 
good we would be to them all , giving them corn 
and land to plant and live in , and prefent nourish- 
ment, provided they would keep within fuch bounds 
as should be allotted them , and not do prejudice to 
others : Go then , faid he , and inform your countrymen 
of this i which , if they will not agree to , every one of 
then shall be fain. 

The poor creatures, thoroughly humbled, being 
reduced to about thirty-feven, joyfully accepted the 
offer , and earneftly begged for food ; hereupon wfl 
‘ Cent twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well arm- 
ed, 


1 


! Google 





OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

fed, together with Old Friday, and three Indian flaves 
who marched to the place where they were. The 
flaves were loaded with a large quantity of bread , 
and rice cakes , with three live goats : and the poor 
Indians being ordered to fit down on the fide of the 
hill, they ate the viftuals very thankfully , and have 
proved faithful to the laft , never trefpafling beyond 
their bounds , where, at this day , they quietly and 
happily remain , and where we now and then vilit 
them. They are confined to a neck of land about 
a mile and a half broad , and three or four in length, 
on the fouth-eaft corner of the ifland , the fea being 
before, and lofty mountains behind them , free from 
the appearance of canoes , and indeed their country- 
men have never made any enquiry after them. "We 
gave them twelve hatchets, and three or four knives; 
have taught them to build huts , make wooden fpa des , 
plant corn , make bread , breed tame goats , and 
milk them , as likewife to make wicker-work , in 
which, I muft ingenuoufly confefs , they infinite- 
ly out-do us , having made themfelves feveral pretty 
neceffaries and fancies , as baskets , fieves , bird ca- 
ges , and cupboards , as alfo ftools, beds, and couch- 
es , no lefs ufeful than delightful ; and now they live 
the moft innocent andinoffenfive creatures that ever 
were fubdued in the world , wanting nothing but 
wives to make them a nation. 

Thus , kind Sir , have 1 given you , according to 
my ability, an impartial account of the various tranfi* 
a&ions that have happened in the ifiand fince your 
departure , to this day : and we have great reafon to 

N 


Digitized by Google 


393 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

acknowledge the kind providence of heaven in our 
merciful deliverance. When you infpetf your little 
k:ngdom,youwill find in it fomelittle improvement, 
your flocks increafed, and your fubje&s augmented: 
lb that from a defolate ifland, as this was before your 
wonderful deliverance upon it , here is a vifible pro- 
fpe£I of its becoming a populous and well governed 
little kingdom , to your immortal fame and glory. 

The end of the Spanish governor's relation . 

The continuation of the life o/'Robinfon Crufoe , 
both of thofe pajfages that happened during the 
time of his continuance on the ifland , and after 
his departure , till he arrived again in his native 
country. 

'X' HERE is no doubt to fuppofe , but that the 
precedent relation of my faithful Spaniard was 
very agreable , and no lefs furprifing to me , to the 
young prieft, andto all who heardit : nor were thefe 
people lefs pleafed with thofe neceffary utenfils that 
I brought them , fuch as the knives , feiffars, fpades, 
shovels, and pick-axes, with which they now adorn 
their habitations. So much had they addi&ed them- 
felves to wicker-work, prompted by the ingenuity of 
the Indians , who aflifted them , that when I viewed 
the Englishmen’s colonies, they feemed at a diftance 
as though they had lived like bees in a hive : for 
Will. Atkins , who was now become a very indu- 


I 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. igr 

ftrious and fober man , had made himfelf a tent of 
basket-work round the outfide;the walls were work- 
ed in as a basket , in pannels or ftrong fquares of 
thirty-two in number , ftanding about feven feet 
high : in the middle was another , not above twen- 
ty-two paces round , but much ftronger built, being 
of an o&ogonal form , and in the eight corners flood 
eight ftrong pofls , round the top of which he laid 
ftrong pieces , pinned with wooden pins, from which 
he raifed a pyramid for the roof , mighty pretty, I 
affure you, and joined very well together with iron 
fpikes , which he made himfelf ; for he had made 
him a forge , with a pair of wooden bellows and 
charcoal for his work , forming an anvil out of one 
of the iron crows , to work upon , and in this manner 
would he make himfelf hooks , flaples , fpikes, bolts, 
and hinges. After he had pitched the roof of his 
innermoft tent , he made it fo firm between the raf- 


ters with basket-work , thatching that over again 
with rice-ftraw,and over that a large leaf of a tree,that 
his'houfe was as dry as if it had been tiled orflated. 
The outer circuit was covered as a lean-to quite 
round this inner apartment , laying long rafters from 
the thirty-two angles , to the top-pofts of the inner 
houfe, about twenty feet diftant : fo that there was a 
fpace like a walk betwixt the outer and inner wall , 
near twenty feetin breadth. The inner placehe par- 
titioned off with the fame wicker-work , dividing it 
into fix neat apartments , every one of which had a 
door,firft into the entry of the main tent-, and another 
into the fpaceand walk that was round it , not only 

N a 



j by Google 


29* LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

convenient for retreat, but for family neceflaries.' 
■Within the door of the outer circle,there -was a paffage 
dire&ly to the door of the inner houfe; on either fide 
was a wicker-partition, and a door, by which you go 
firft into a large room twenty two fee t wide, and about 
thirty long.and through that into another of a fmaller 
length , fo that in the outward circle were ten hand- 
fome rooms , fix of which were only to be come at 
through the apartments of the inner tent , ferving as 
retiring rooms to the refpe&ive chambers of the inner 
circle , and four large warehoufes , which went in 
through one another , two on either hand of the paf- 
fage that led through the outward door to the inner 
tent. In short, nothing could be built more ingenioufly, 
kept more neat , or have better conveniencies ; and 
here lived the three families, Will. Atkins.his compa- 
nion, their wives and children,and the widow of the 
deceafed. As to religion , the men feldom taught 
their wives the knowledge of God , any more than 
the failors cuftom of fwearing by his n^me. The 
greateft improvement their wives had , was , they 
taught them to fpeak English, fo as to be underftood. 

None of their children were then above fix years 
old •, they were all fruitful enough •, and , I think, the 
cook’s mate’s wife was big of her fixth child. 

When I enquired of the Spaniards about their cir- 
cumftances while among the favages , they told me, 
that they abandonedthemfelves to defpair, reckoning 
themfelves a poor and miferable people , that had no 
means put into their hands , and confequently muft 
foon be ftarved to death. They owned f however , 


4 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 295 

that they were in the wrong to think fo , and for re- 
futing the afliftance that reafon offered for their fup- 
port , as well as future deliverance , confefling that 
grief was a moil infignificant paflion , as it looked 
upon things as without remedy, and having no hope 
of good things to come ; all which verified this noted 
proverb , 

- In trouble to be troubled , 

Is to have your trouble doubled. 

Nor did his remarks end here : for, making obfer- 
vations upon my improvements , and on my condi- 
tion at firft , infinitely worfe than theirs, he told me, 
that Englishmen had,m their difirefs, greater prefence 
of mind than thofe of any other country that he had 
met with ; and that they and the Portuguefe were 
the worft men in the world to ftruggle under mif- 
fortunes. When they landed among the favages , 
they found but little provifion . except they would 
turn cannibds, there being but a few roots and herbs, 
with little fubftance in them, and of which ;he na- 
tives gave them but very fparingly. Many were 
the ways they took to civilize and teach the favages, 
but in vain: for they would not own them to be 
their inftru&ors , whofe lives were owing to their 
bounty. Their extremities were very great , many 
days being entirely without food , the favages there 
being more indolent and le r s devouring than thofe 
who had better fupplies. When they went out to 
battle , they were obliged to aflift thefe people , in 
one of which my faithful Spaniard being taken , had 
like to have been devoured. They had loft their am- 

Nj 


Digitized by Googli 


* ^ ' 


194 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

munition , which rendered their fire-arms ufelefs j 
nor could they «fe the bows and arrows that were 
given them : fo that while the armies were at a di- 
ftance , they had no chance •, but when clofe , then 
they could be of fervice with halberts and sharpened 
Ricks , put into the muzzles of their muskets. They 
made themfelves targets of wood, covered with the 
skins of wild beads; and when one happened to be 
knocked down, the reft of the company fought over 
him till he recovered : and then ftanding clofe in a 
line, they would make their way through a thoufand 
favages. At the return of their friend , who they 
thought had been entombed in the bowels of their 
enemies, their joy was inconceivable. Nor were they 
lefs furprifed at the fight of the loaves of bread I had 
fent them , things that they had not feen for feveral 
years , at the fame time crofting and blefling it , as 
though it was manna fent from heaven : but when 
they knew the errand, and perceived the boat which 
was to carry them to the perfon and place from 
whence fuch relief came , this ftruck them with fuch 
a furprife of joy as made fome of them faint away , 
and others burft out into tears. 

This was the fummary account that I had from 
them. I shall now inform the reader what I next 
did for them, and in what condition I left them. As 
we were all of opinion that the favages would fcarce 
trouble them any more , fo we had no apprehenfions 
on that fcore. I told them I was come purely to e- 
llablish , and not to remove them ; and , upon that 
occafion, had not only brought them necefiaries for 




Digiti 


M 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 195 

convenience and defence , but alfo artificers , and o- 
ther perfons, both for their neceffary employments , 
and to add to their number. They were all to- 
gether when I thus talked to them ; and before I 
delivered to them the ftores I had brought , 1 asked 
them one by one , if they had entirely forgot their 
firft animofities , would engage in the ftri&eft friend- 
ship , and shake hands with one another ? On this 
Will. Atkins, with abundance of good humour » 
faid , they had affli&ions enough to make them all 
fober,and enemies enough to make them all friends : 
as forhimfelf, he would live and die among them, 
owning , that what the Spaniards had done to him ; 
his own mad humour had made neceffary for them 
to do. Nor had the Spaniards occafion to juftify 
their proceedings to me; but they told me, that, fince 
Will. Atkins had behaved himfelf fo valiantly in. 
fight, and at other times shewed fuch n regard to 
the common intereft of them all , they had not only 
forgotten all that was paft , but thought he oughr as 
much to be trufted with arms and neceffaries as any 
of them , which they teftified by making him next 
in command to the governor: and they mod hear- 
tily embraced the occafion of giving me this fo emn 
affurance , that they would never feparate their inte- 
reft again as long as they lived. 

After thefe kind declarations of friendship, we ap- 
pointedall of us to dine together the next day; upon 
this I caufed the ship’s cook and his mate , come on 
shore for that purpofe , to aflift in drefling our din- 
ner. We brought from the ship fix pieces of beef , 

N 4 


396 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and four of pork , together with our punch-bowl > 
and materials to fill it and, in particular, 1 gave them 
ten bottles of French claret , and ten of English beer. 
Which was very acceptable to them. The Spaniards 
added to our feaft five whole kids, which being roaft- 
ed , three of them were fent as fresh meat to the 
lailors,on board,and the other two we ate ourfelves. 
After our merry and innocent feaft was over , I 
began to diftribute my cargoe among them. Firft , I 
gave them linen fufficient to make every one of them 
four shirts , and at the Spaniards requeft made them 
up fix. The thin English fluffs I allotted to make 
every one a light coat like a frock, agreeable to the 
climate , and left them fuch a quantity , as to make 
more upon their decay ; as alfo pumps , shoes , hats, 
and fiockings. It is not to be expreffed, the pleafing 
fatisfattion which fat upon the countenances of 
thefe poor men , when they perceived what care I 
took of them , as if I had been a common father 
to them all; and they all engaged never to leave 
the ifland, till I gave my confent for their depar- 
ture. I then prefented to them the people I brought, 
to wit , the tailor , fmith , and the two carpenters ; 
but my Jack of all trades was the moft acceptable 
prefent I could make them. My tailor fell imme- 
diately to work , and made every one of them a 
shirt ; after which , he learned the women how to 
few and flitch , thereby to become the more helpful 
to their husbands. Neither were the carpenters 
lefs ufeful , taking in pieces their clumfy things , 
inftead otwhich , they made convenient and hand- 


Digitiz 


GoogI? 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 197 

fome tables , ftools , bedheads , cupboards , lockers 
and ^shelves. But when 1 carried them to fee Will. 
Atkins’s basket-houfe , they owned they never faw 
fuch a piece of natural ingenuity before : I am 
fure , faid one of the carpenters, the man that bu It 
this has no need of us ; you need , Sir , do nothing but 
give him tools. 

I divided the tools among them in this manner ; 
to every man I gave a digging lpade, a shovel and a 
rake, as having no harrows or ploughs ; ancbto eve- 
ry feparate place a pick axe , a crow , a broad axe , 
and a faw, with a ftorefor a general fupply , should 
any be broken or worn out. I left them alfo nails , 
ftaples , hinges , hammers , chiffels , knives , fcilTars, 
and all forts of tools and iron work ; and , for the ufe 
of the fmith , gave them three tons of unwrought 
iron for a fupply : and as to arms and ammunition , 
I ftored them even to profufion •, or, at leall,to equip 
a fufficient little army againft all oppofers .whatfo- 
ever. 

The young man (whofe mother was unfortunately 
ftarved to death ) , together with the maid , a pious 
and well educated young woman , feeing things fo 
well ordered on shore (fori made them accompany 
me f, and confidering they had no occafion to go fo 
far a voyage as to the Eali-Indies , they both dciired 
of me , that I would leave them there , and enter 
them among my fubje&s. This I readily agreed to , 
ordering them aplat of ground, on which were three 
little houfes eretted , environed with basket-work, 
pallifadocd like Atkins’s , and adjoining to his planta- 

N j 


t • .0 


Digitized by Google 


298 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

tion. So contrived were their tents , that each of 
them had a room apart to lodge in , while the mid- 
dle tent was not only their ftore-houfe , but their 
place for eating and drinking. At this time the two 
Englishmen removed their habitation to their former 
ftjpj-place •, fo that now the ifland/divided into three 
colonics \firft , Thofe I have juft now mentioned ; 
fecondly. That of Will. Atkins, where there were four 
families of Englishmen, with their wives and children, 
the widow and her children : the young man , and 
the maid , who , by the way , we made a wife of 
before our departure ; three favages , who were fla- 
vesjthe tailor, fmith, (who ferved alfo as a gunfmich)* 
and my other celebrated perfon called Jack of all 
trades. Thirdly , My chief colony , which confifted 
of the Spaniards, with Old Friday, who ftill remained 
at my old habitation , which was my capital city : 
andfurely never was there fuch a metropolis, it now- 
being hid in fo obfcure a grove , that a thoufand 
men might have ranged the ifland a month, and 
looked purpofely for it , without being able to find 
it, though the Spaniards had enlarged its boundaries, 
both without and within , in a mod furprifing man- 
ner. 

But now I think it high time to fpeak of the 
young French prieft of the order of St Benedict , 
"whofe judicious and pious difcourfes upon fundry 
occaftons , merit an extraordinary obfervation ; nor 
can his being aFrench Papift priefV, I prefume , give 
offence to any of my readers , when they have this 
affurance from me , that he was a perfon of the moft 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ic 9 

courteous difpofition, extenfive charity, and exalted 
piety. His arguments were always agreeable to 
reafon , and his converfation the mod acceptable 
of any perfon that I had ever yet met with in my 
life. 

Sir , faid he to me one day , fince , under God (at the 
fame time croffing his breaft) you have not only fared 
my life ; hut , by permitting me to go this voyage , have 
granted me the happinefs of free converfation , I think 
it my duty , as my profejfion obliges me , to fare what 
fouls I can , by bringing them to the knowledge of fume 
Catholic doctrine , nccef'ary to falvation ; and ,fncethcfe 
people are under your immediate government , in gra- 
titude , jujlice , and decency for what you have done for 
me , I shall offer no farther points in religion , than what 
shall merit your approbation . Being pleafed with the 
modefly of his carriage , I told him he should not be 
the worfe ufedfor being of a different perfuafion,if, 
upon that very account , we did not differ in points 
of faith , not decent in a part of the country .where 
the poor Indians ought to beinftru&ed in the know- 
ledge ofthe true God , and his fon Jefus Chrift. To 
this he replied, that converfation might eafily be fepa- 
rated from difputes-,that he would difeourfe with me 
rather as a gentleman than a religious but that , 
if we did enter upon religious arguments , upon my 
defiring the fame , I would give him liberty to de- 
fend his own principles. He farther added , that' he 
would do all that became him in his office , as a 
prieft as well as a Chriftian , to procure the happi- 
nefs of all that was in the ship ; that though be 

N 6 


Digitized by Google 


300 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

could not pray with , he would pray for us , on all 
occafions ; and then he told me feveral extraordi- 
nary events of his life , within a few years pail ; but 
particularly in this laft , which was the moil re- 
markable : that , in this voyage , he had the misfor- 
tune to be five times shipped and unshipped : his firil 
defign was to have gone to Martinicoffor which, ta- 
king ship at St Malo , he was forced into Lisbon by 
bad weather, the veffel running aground in the mouth 
of the Tagus : that from thence he went on board a 
Portuguefe ship , bound to the Madeiras, whofe ma- 
iler being but an indifferent mariner , and out of his 
reckoning , they were drove to Fial, where felling 
their commodity, which was corn , they refolved to 
take in their loading at the Ifle of May , and to fail 
to Newfoundland ; at the banks of which, meeting a 
French shi p bound to Quebec,in the river of Canada, 
and from thence to Martinico , in this ship he em- 
barked ; the mailer of which dying at Quebec , that 
voyage was fufpended: andlaftly , shipping himfelf 
for France , this laft ship was deftroyed.by fire , as 
before has been related. 

At this time we talked no further •, but another 
morning he comes to me, juft as I was going to vifit 
the Englishmens colony , and tells me , that , as he 
knew the profperity of the illand was my principal 
defire , he had fomething to communicate agreeable 
to my defign , by which perhaps he might put it , 
more than he yet thought it was , in the way of the 
benedi&ion of heaven. How , Sir ? faid I , in a fur- 
prife, are we not yetin the way of God’s blefiing, at- 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 301 

ter all thefe fignal providences and deliverances, of 
which you have had fuch an ample relation ? He re- 
plied , I hope, Sir, you are in the way , and that your 
good defign will profper : but ftill there are fome 
among you that are not equally right in their adions: 
and remember , I befeech you , Sir , that Achan , by 
his crime , removed God’s blefling from the camp of 
the children of Ifrael ; that though fix and thirty were 
entirely innocent, yet they became the ob}efts of di- 
vine vengeance , and bore the weight of the punish- 
ment accordingly. 

So fenfibly was I touched with this difeourfe, and 
fo fatisfied with that ardent piety that inflamed his 
foul , that I defired him to accompany me to the 
Englishmens plantations, which he was very glad of, 
by reafon they were the fubjetts of what he de- 
figned to difeourfe with me about ■, and while we 
walked on together , he began in the following man- 
ner : 

Sir,faidhe, I muft confefs it is a great unhappi- 
nefs that we difagree in feveral dottrinal articles of 
religion ; but , furely both of us acknowledge this , 
that there is a God , who having given us fome 
Rated rules for our fervice and obedience, we ought 
not willingly and knowingly to offend him , either 
by neglecting what he has commanded , or by doing 
what he has forbidden. This truth every Chriftiaa 
owns , that whenever any one prefumptuoufiy fins 
againft God’s command , the Almighty then with- 
draws his blefling from him ; every good man there- 
fore ought certainly to prevent fuch negle& of, or 


Digitized by Google 


3oi LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fin againft God and his commands. I thanked ther 
young priefi for exprefiing fo great a concern for us, 
and defired him to explain the particulars of what he 
had obferved, that , according to the parable of 
Achart , I might remove the accurfed thing from 
among us. Why then , Sir , faid he, in the firft 
place , you have four Englishmen , who have taken 
favage women to their wives , by whom they have 
feveral children , though none of them are legally 
married ,as the law of God and man requires •, they, 

I fay, Sir, are no lefs than adulteres , and as they 
Rill live in adultery , are liable to the curfe of God. 
I know , Sir , you may objedf the want of a prieft, or 
clergyman of any kind ; as alfo , pen , ink , and 
paper , to write down a contratt of marriage , and 
have it figned between them. But neither this , nor 
what the Spanish governor has told you of their 
chufing by confent , can be reckoned a marriage , 
nor any more than an agreement to keep them from 
quarrelling among themfelves ; for , Sir, the efTence 
or facrament of matrimony (fo he called it) not only 
confifts in mutual confent , but in the legal obliga- 
tion, which compels them to own and acknowledge 
one another , to abftain from other perfons, the men 
to provide for their wives and children, and the wo- 
men to the fame and like conditions , mutatis mutandis , 
on their fide : whereas , Sir , thefe men, upon their 
own pleafure , on any occafion , may forfake thofe 
women , and marry others , and by difow;ning their 
children , fuffcr them utterly to perish. Now , Sir , 
added he , can God be honoured in fuch an unlawful 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 303 

liberty as this? how can a blefling fucceed the beft en- 
deavours , if men are allowed to live in fo licentious 
a way ? I was indeed ftruck with the thing myfelf , 
and thought that they were much to blame , that no 
formal contract had been made , though it had been 
but breaking a ftick between them , to engage them 
to live as man and wife, never to feparate , but love, 
cherish , and comfort one another all their lives •, 
yet , Sir , faid I , when they took thefe women , I 
•was not here •, and if it is adultery , it is part my re- 
medy, and I cannot help it. True , Sir, anfwered 
the young prieft , you cannot be charged with that part 
of the crime which was done in your abfence ; but 1 be - 
feech you , don’t flatter yourjclf , that you are under no 
obligation now to put a period to it i which if you ne- 
glect to do , the guilt will be entirely on you alone , fince 
it is certainly in nobody’s power but yours , to alter 
their condition. I mull confcfs , I was fo dull , that I 
thought he meant I should part them , and knowing 
that this would put the whole ifland in confufion , I 
told him I could not confent to it upon any account 
whatfoever. Sir, faid he, in a great furprife, Ido 
not mean that you should feparate , but marry them , by 
a written contract , figned by both man and woman , 
and by all the witnejfes prefent , which all the European 
laws decree to be of fufficient efficacy. Amazed with 
fuch true piety and fincerity, and confidering the va- 
lidity of a written contratt , I acknowledged all that 
he faid to be very juft and kind ; and that I would 
difeourfe with the men about it ; neither could I fee 
Vhat reafon they could have not to let him marry 


Digitized by Google 


304 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

them, whofe authority in that affair is owned to be a$ 
authentic as if they were married by any of our cler- 
gymen in England. 

The next complaint he had to make to me was 
this , that though thefe English fubjefts of mine had 
lived with thefe women feven years , and though 
they were of good unde -. Handing , and capable of in- 
ffruclion, having learned not only to fpeak , but to 
read English , yet all this while they had never 
taught them any thing of the Chriftian religion, or 
the knowledge of God , much lefs in what manner 
he ought to be ferved. And is not this an unaccount- 
able neglect ? faid he warmly. Depend upon it , God 
Almighty will call them to account for fuch contempt. 
And tho ’ I am not of your religion , yet I should be glad 
to fee thefe people releafed from the devil’s power , and 
be faved by the principles of the Chriftian religion , the 
knowledge of God , of a Redeemer, the refurrection , and 
of a future Jlate. But , as it is not too late , if you pleafe 
to give me leave to infirucl them , 1 doubt not but I 
shall fupply this great defect , by bringing them into the 
great circle of Chrifiianity , even while you continue in 
the if and. 

I could hold no longer , but embracing him , told 
him, with a thoufand thanks, I would grant whatever 
he requeued, anddefired him to proceed in the third 
article , which he did in the following manner : 

Sir , faid he , it should be a maxim among all Chri- 
ftians , That Chriftian knowledge ought to be propagated 
by all po()ible means , and on all occafeons. Upon this 
account our church fends miffionaries into Pcrfia, 




Digitiz 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 30J 

India, and China ; men who are willing to die for the 
fake of God and the Chriftian faith, in order to bring 
poor Infidels into the way of falvation. Now, Sir , as 
here is an opportunity to convert feven and thirty 
poor favages , I wonder how you can pafs by fuch an 
occafion of doing good, which is really worth the ex- 
pence of a man’s whole life. 

I muft confefs I was fo confounded at this difcourfe 
that I could not tell how to anfwer him. Sir, faid 
he , feeing me in diforder , I shall be very forry if I 
have given you offence. No , Sir , faid I, I am rather 
confounded ; and you know my circumftances, thar, 
being bound to the Eaft Indies in a merchant ship , I 
cannot wrong the owners fo much , as to detain the 
ship here , the men lying at vi&uals and wages on 
their account. If I flay above twelve days , I muft 
pay 3 /. Sterling per diem demurrage , nor muft the 
ship ftay above eight days more ; fo that I am unable 
to engage in this work , unlefs I would leave the 
ship , and be reduced to my former condition. The 
prieft , though he owned this was hard upon me, yet 
laid it to my confcience , whether the blefling of 
favingfevenandthirtyfouls was not worth venturing 
all that I had in the world ? Sir , faid I , it is very 
true : but as you are an eccleftaftic , it naturally falls 
intoy our profeflion: why, therefore, don’t you rather - 
offer to undertake it yourfelf , than prefs me to it ? ? 

Upon this he turned about, making a very low bow, 

I moft humbly thank God and you , Sir , faid he , for 
fo bleffeda call;and moft willingly undertake fo glo- 
rious an office, which will fufficiently compenfate all 


Digitized by Google 


306 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

the hazards and difficulties I have gone through In a 
long and uncomfortable voyage. 

While he was thus fpeaking , I could difcover a 

rapture in his face , by his colour going and coming ; 

at the fame time his eyes fparkled like fire , with all 

the figns of the mod zealous tranfports. And when 

I asked whether he was in earneft ? Sir , faid he , it 

was to preach to the Indians , 1 confented to come 

... 

along with you-, thefe infidels , even in this little 
iflftnd , are infinitely of more worth than my poor 
life : if fo that I should prove the happy inftrument 
of faving thefe poor creatures fouls , I care not if I 
never fee my native country again. One thing I 
only beg of you more , is , that you would leave 
Friday with me , to be my interpreter , without 
whofe afliftance neither of us will underftand each 
other. 

This requeft very fenfibly troubled me; firft, upon 
Friday’s being bred a Proteftant and , feccndly , for 
the affe&ion I bore to him for his fidelity : But , im- 
mediately the remembrance of Friday’s father coming 
into my head , I recommended him to him as having 
learned Spanish , which the prieft alfo underftood: 
and fo was thoroughly fatisfied with him. 

When we cameto the Englishmen , after Ihad told 
them what neceffary things I had done for them , I 
talked to them of the fcandalous life they led , told 
them what notice the clergyman had taken of it, and 
asked them if they were married men or bachelors ? 
They anfwered , two of them were widowers , and 
the other three fingle men. But, faid I, with what 


Digitized b^Googl^ 





OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 307 

Confidence can you call thefie your wives, by whom 
you have fo many children, and yet are not lawfully 
married ? They all faid, that they took them before 
the governor as fuch, having nobody elfe to marry 
them , which they thought as legal , as if they had 
had a parfon. No doubt, faid I, but in the eye of 
God you are fo : but unlefs I am allured of your ho- 
ned intent $ never to defert thefe poor creatures , I 
can do nothing more for you , neither can you ex- 
pert God’s bleffing while you live in fuch an open 
courfe of adultery. Hereupon , Will. Atkins , who 
fpoke for the reft , told me , That they believed their 
wives the moft innocent and virtuous creatures in the 
world: that they would never for fake them while they 
had breath ; and that , if there was a clergyman in the 
ship , they would be married to them with all their 
heart. I told you before . faid I , that I have a mini- 
fter with me, who shall marry you to-morrow morn- 
ing , if you are willing ; fo I would have you confult 
to-night , with the reft , about it. I told him the 
clergyman was a Frenchman , and knew not a word 
of English , but that I would aft as a clerk between 
them. And indeed this bufinefs met with fuch fpee* 
dyfuccefs, that they all told me, in a few minutes 
after, that they were ready to be formally married,as 
foon as I pleafed; with which informing the prieft,he 
was exceedingly rejoiced. 

Nothing now remained , but that the women 
should be made fenfible of the meaning of the thing ; 
with which being well fatisfied, they, with their hufi- 
bands , attended at my apartment the next morning : 


Digitized by Googl 


30 $ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

there was my prieft , habited in a black veft, fome- 
thing like a caffock , with a fash round it , much re- 
fembling a minifter, and I was his interpreter. But 
the ferioufnefs ofhis behaviour, and the fcruples he 
made of marrying the women , who were nor bap- 
tized, gave them an exceeding reverence for his per- 
fon ; nor indeed would he marry them at a'l , till he 
obtained my liberty to difeourfe both with the men 
and women, and then he told them , That, in the 
fight of all indifferent men , and in the fenfe of the 
laws of fociety , they had lived in open adultery , 
which nothing now , but their confent to marry , or 
final reparation , could put an end to ■, and even here 
was a difficulty with refpeff to the laws of Chriftian 
matrimony , in marrying a profeffed Chriftian to a 
heathen idolater , unbaptized , but yet there was 
time enough to make them profefs the name of 
Chrift , without which nothing could be done : that, 
befides.he believed themfelves very indifferent Chri- 
ftians : and confequently had not difeoutfed with 
their wives upon that fubieft ; and that unlefs they 
promifed him to do fo , he could not marry them , as 
being exprefsly forbidden by the laws of God. 

All this they heard attentively, and owned readily; 
But , Lord , Sir ! faid Will. Atkins to me , how should 
we teach them religion , who know nothing of it our - 
felves ? How can we talk to our wives of God , Jefus 
Chrift , heaven and hell ? why they would only laugh 
at us , who never yet have praAifed religion , but on the 
contrary , all manner of wickednefs. Will. Atkins, faid 
I cannot you tell your wife she is in the wrong , 


Digitized by Google 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3 c* 

and that her gods are idols , which can neither hear , 
fpeak , nor underftand ; but that our God , who has 
made , can deftroy all things ; that he rewards the 
good , and punishes the wicked •, and at laft will 
bring us to judgment ? cannot you tell her thefe 
things ? That’s true , faid Atkins , but then she’ll tell 
me , it is utterly falfe , fince I am not punished and 
fent to the devil, who hath been fuch a wicked crea- 
ture. Thefe words I interpreted to the prieft ! O 1 
faid he , tell him , his repentance will make him a 
very good minifter to his fpoufe , and qualify him to 
preach on the mercy and long-fuffering of a merciful 
Being , who defires not the death of a finner , and 
even defers damnation to the laft judgment ; this 
will lead him to the do&rine of , and will make 
him an excellent preacher to his wife. I repeated 
this to Atkins , who , being more than ordinary af- 
fefted with it, replied , I know all this , Sir , and a 
great deal more •, but how can I have the impudence 
to talk thus to my wife , when my confcience wit- 
neffes againft me ? ALAS ! faid he , ( with tears in 
his eyes , and giving a great figh ) , as for repenting , 
that is for ever paft me. Paft you ! Atkins , faid I , 
what do you mean ? You know well enough, faid he, 
what I mean ; I mean it is too late. 

When I told the prieft what he faid , the poor af- 
fe&ionate man could not refrain from weeping ; but 
recovering himfelf , Pray , Sir , faid he , ask him if he 
is contented that it is too late ; or is he concerned , and 
wishes it were not fo ? This queftion I put fairly to. 
Atkins , who replied in a pafiion , How can l be eafy 


— 


■< 


310 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

in a ft ate which I know mu ft terminate in my ruin ? for 
1 really believe , fome time or other , I shall cut my throaty 
to put a period both to my life and to the terrors of my 
confidence. 

At this the clergyman shook his head. Sir, faid 
he , pray tell him it is not too late : Chrift will give 
him repentance , if he has recourfe to the merit of his 
paftion. Does he think he is beyond the power of di- 
vine mercy ? there may indeed be a time when provoked 
mercy will no longer Jlrive , but never too late for men 
to repent in this world. I told Atkins every word the 
prieft had faid, who then parted from us to talk to 
his wife , while we difeourfed with the reft. But 
thefe were very ftupid in religious matters , yet all 
of them promifed to do their endeavours to make 
their wives turn Chriftians •, and upon which promi- 
fes the prieft married the three couple. But as At- 
kins was the only fincere convert , and of more 
fenfe than the reft , my clergyman was earneltly in- 
quiring after him : Sir , faid he , let us walk out of 
this labyrinth , and I dare fay we shall find this poor 
man preaching to his wife already. And indeed we 
found it true ; for coming to the edge of the wood , 
weperceived Atkins andhis favage wife littingunder 
the shade of a bush , in very earneft difeourfe ; he 1 
pointed to the fun , to the quarters of the earth , to 
himfelf,toher, the woods, and the trees. Immediately 
we could perceive him ftart upon his feet , fall down 
upon his knees , and lift up both his hands ; at which 
the tears ran down my clergyman's cheeks *, but our 
great misfortune was , we could not hear one word 


Digitized by Google 


1 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3 n 

that paiTed between them. Another time he would 
embrace her , wiping the tears from her eyes, killing 
her with the greateft tranfports, and then both kneel 
down for fome minutes together. Such raptures of 
joy did this occafion in my young prieft , that he 
could fcarcely contain himfelf : And a little after this, 
we obferved by her motion , as frequently lifting up 
her hands , and laying them on her breaft , that she 
was mightily affe&ed with his difeourfe, and fo they < 
withdrew from our light. 

When we came back , we found them both wait- 
ing to be called in •, upon which we agreed to exa- 
mine him alone, and fo I began thus to difeourfe him. 
Prithee , Will. Atkins , faid I , what education had 
you ? What was your father ? 

W. A. A better man than ever 1 shall be ; he was 
Sir, a clergyman , who gave me good inftru&ion, or 
corre&ion , which l defpifed , like a brute as I was , 
and murdered my poor father. 

Pr. Ha ! a murderer ! 

[ Here the priejl ftarttd and looked palt , as think- 
ing he had really killed his father. ] 

R. C. What , did you kill him with your hands ? 

W. A. No , Sir , I cut not his throat , but broke his 
heart , by the moll unnatural turn of difobedience 
to the tendereft and belt of fathers. 

R. C. Well , I pray God grant you repentance ; I 
did not ask you to extort a confelfion-, but I asked you, 
becaufe I fee you have more knowledge of what is 
good , than your companions. 

W, A. O, Sir, whenever I look back upon my part: 



Digitized by Google 


jia LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

life, confcience upbraids me with my father : the fins 
againft our parents make the deepeft wounds, and 
their weight lies the heavieft upon the mind. 

R. C. You talk , Will, too feelingly and fenfibly 
for me ; I am not able to bear it. 

W. A. You bear it , Sir ! you know nothing of it. 

, R. C. But yes, Atkins, I do •, and every shore, val- 
ley, and tree in this ifland, witnefs the anguish of my 
» foul for my undutifulnefs to my kind father, whom I 
have murdered Iikewife; yet my repentance falls in- 
finitely short of yours. But , Will, how comes the 
fenfe of this matter to touch you juft now ? 

W. A. Sir , the work you have fet me about , has 
occafioned it ; for talking to my wife about God and 
religion , she has preached me fuch a fermon , that I 
shall retain it in lafting remembrance. 

R. C. No, no, it is your own moving pious argu- 
ments to her , has made confcience fling them back 
upon you. But pray , Atkins , inform us what paffed 
between you and your wife, and in what manner did 
you begin. 

W. A. I talked to her of the laws of marriage , the 
reafon of fuch compacts, whereby order and juftice is 
maintained •, without which ,• men would run from 
their wives and children, to the diffolution of families 
or inheritances. 

R. C. Well , and what did she.fay to all this ? 

W. A. Sir, we began our difcourfe in the following 
manner, which I shall exa&ly repeat according to my 
mean capacity , if you think it worth your while to 
honour it with your attention* 

Xhf 



OF ROBJNSON CRUSOE. jij 

The DIALOGUE between Will. Atkins and 
his Wife in the wood. 

Wife^O. o u tell me marriage God appoint , have 
you God in your country ? 

W. A. Yes , child , God is in every nation. 

Wife. No ; great old Benamuckee god is in my 
country , not yours. 

W. A . My dear, God is in heaven, which he made; 
he alfo made the earth, the fea, and all that is therein. 

Wife. Why you not tell me much long ago ? 

W , A. My dear, I have been a wicked wretch, ha- 
ving a long time lived without the knowledge of God 
in the world. 

Wife. What , not know great God in own nation > 
No do good ting? No fay O to him ? that’s ftrange ! 

W. A. But , my dear , many live as if there was no 
God in heaven for all that. 

Wife. Why God fuffer this ? why makee not live 
■well? 

W. A. It is our own faults , child. 

Wife. But if he much great, can makee kill, why no 
makee kill when no ferve him ? No be good mans , no 
cry O to him ? 

W. A. That’s true , my dear, he may ftrike us dead, 
but his abundant mercy fpareth us. 

Wife. Did not you tell God tankee for that ? 

W. A. No, I have neither thanked him for his mer- 
cy , nor feared him for his power. 

Wife. Then me not believe your God be good, nor 
makee kill , when you makee him angry, 

O 



j/4 LIFE ANI> ADVENTURES 

W. A. Alas ! muft my wicked life hinder you from 
believing in him ? 

Wife, How can me think your God live there ? 

( pointing to heaven.) Sure he no ken what you do 
here. 

W. A. Yes, yes , my dear, he hears us fpeak , fees 
what we do , and knows what we even think. 

Wife. Where then makee power ftrong , when he 
hears you curfe , fwear de great damn ? 

W. A. My dear, this shews he is indeed a God and 
not a man , who has fuch tender mercy. 

Wife, Mercy ! what you call mercy ? 

W. A. He pities and fpares us : as he is our great 
Creator , fo is he alfo our tender father. 

Wife. So God never angry, never kill wicked, then 
he no good , no great mighty. 

W. A. Q my dear , don’t fay fo , he is both ; and 
many times he shews terrible examples of his judge- 
ment and vengeance. « 

Wife. Then you makee de bargain with him •, you 
do bad ting , he no hurt you , he hurt other mans. 

( W. A. No, indeed, my fins are all prefumptions upon 
his goodnefs. 

Wife. Well , and yet no makee you dead ? and you 
give him no tankee neither ? 

W. A. It is true , I am an ungrateful , unthankful 
dog , that I am. 

Wife. Why , you fay he makee you , why makee 
you no much better then. 

W. A. It is I alone that have deformed myfelf, and 
abufed his goodnefs. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 31s 

Wife. Pray makee Godknow me, me no makee him 
angry , no do bad ting. 

W. A. You mean, my dear , that you defire I would 
teach you to know God : alas ! poor dear creature •, 
he muft teach thee , and not I. But I’ll pray earneftly 
to him to direft thee, and to forgive me , a miferable 
{inner. ( Hereupon he went a little di fiance , and kneel- 
ing down, prayed earneftly to God to enlighten her mind , 
and to pardon hit fins ; when this was done , they con . 
tinned their difcourfe thus. ) 

Wife. What you put down knee for ? For what hold 
up hand ? Who you fpeak to ? 

W. A. My dear , I bowed in token of fubmiffion to 
him that made me , and prayed that he would open 
your eyes and underftanding. 

Wife. And can he do that too ? And will he hear 
what you fay ? 

W. A. Y es, my dear, he bids us pray, and has given 
us promife that he will hear us. 

Wife. When did he bid you pray ? What, do you 
hear him fpeak ? 

W. A. No, my dear , but God has fpoken formerly 
to good men from heaven : and by divine revelation 
they have written all his laws down in a book. 

Wife. O where dat good book ? 

W. A. I have it not now by me : but one time or 
other I shall get it for you to read. Then he embraced 
her with great affection. 

Wife. Pray tell a mee did God teachee them write 
that book? 

W.A. Yes , and by that rule we know him to be God. 

Ox 


316 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Wife. "What -way , what rule you know him ? 

W. A. Becaufe he teaches what is good f juft , and 
holy ; and forbids all wicked and abominable aftions 
that incur his difpleafure. 

Wife. O me fain underftand that , and if he do 
all thingsyou fay he do , furely he hear me fay O to 
him; he makee me good if I wish to be good ; 
lie no kill me if I love him ; me tink , believe him 
great God ; me fay O to him , along with you ,my 
dear. 

Here the poor man fell upon his knees and made - her 
kneel down by him , praying with the greatcft fervency 
that God would injlruct her by his Holy Spirit ; and 
that God hy his providence would fend them a Bible for 
both their infl.ruB.ions. And fuch was the early piety 
of this new convert , that she made him promife never 
toforfake God any more , left , being made dead, as she 
called it , she should not only want her inftruclor , but 
himfelf be mifcrable in a long eternity . 

Such a furprifing account as this was, proved very 
affe£Ung to us both , but particularly to the young 
Clergyman , who -was mightily concerned he could 
not talk to her himfelf. Sir , faid he, there is fome- 
thing more to be done to this woman than to marry 
her : I mean that she ought to be baptized. To 
this I prefently agreed : Pray , faid he again , ask her 
husband, whether he has ever talked to her of Jefus 
•; Chrift , the falvation of linners , the nature of faith, 
and redemption in and by him , of the Holy Spirit, 
the refurre&ion , laft judgment , and a future ftate : 
but the poor fellow melted into tears at this queftion 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 317 

faying , that he had faid fomething to her of thefe 
things , but his inability to talk of them , made him 
afraid left her knowledge of them , should rather 
make her contemn religion , than be benefited by 
it : but that, if I would difcourfe with her , it would 
be very evident my labour would not be in vain. 
Accordingly I called her in , and placing myfelf as 
interpreter between the religious prieft and the wo- 
man , I entreated him to go on: but furely never was 
fuch a fermon preached by any clergyman in thefe 
latter days , with fo much zeal , knowledge, and fin- 
cerity; in short, he brought the woman to embrace 
the knowledge ofChrift, and of redemption by him, 
with fo furprifing a degree of underftanding , that 
she made it her own requeft to be baptized. 

He then performed his office in the facrament of 
baptifm, firft,by faying fome words over to himfelf 
in Latin , and then asking me to give her a name, as 
being her godfather, and pouring a whole dish full 
of water upon the woman’s head , he faid , Mary , 
I baptize thee in the name of the Father , and of the 
Son , and of the Holy Ghoft ; fo that none could 
know of what religion he was. After this he pro* 
nounced the benediftion in Latin. Thus the woman 
being made a Chriftian, he married her to 'Will. At- 
kins-, which being finished, he affe&ionately exhorted 
him to lead a holy life for the future *, that fince rite 
Almighty , by the convi&ions of his confcience, had 
honoured him to he the inftrument of his wife’s 
converfion , he should not dishonour the grace of 
God, that while the favage was converted, the in- 

' O? 


3iS LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ftrument should be call away. Thus ended a cere- 
mony , to me the moll pleafant and agreeable I ever 
palTed in my life. 

The affairs of the illand being fettled , I was pre- 
paring to go on board , when the young man (whofe 
mother was llarved) came to me, faying , that as he 
Underflood I had a clergyman with me , who had 
married the Englishmen with favages , he had a 
match t© -make between two Chrillians which he 
defired mighti?e finished before I departed. .Think- 
ing that it was he himfelf that had courted his mo- 
ther’s maid , I perfuadecf him not to do any thing 
rashly upon the account of his folitary circumflancesj 
that die maid was an unequal match for him , both 
in refpefl to fubllance and years; and that it was very 
probable he would live to return to his own country, 
■where he might have a far better choice. At thefe 
words , finding , he interrupted me , thanking me for 
my good advice ; that as he had nothing to beg of 


me , but a fmall fettlement, with a fervant or two,or 
fome few neceffaries, fo he hoped I would not be un- 
mindful of him when I returned to England, but give 
his letters to his friends ; and that when he was re- 
deemed , the plantation , and all its improvements * 
however valuable , should be returned to me again. 
But, as for the marriage he propofed, that it was not 
himfelf , but that it was between my Jack of all 
trades, and the maid Sufan. 

1 was indeed agreeably furprifed at the mentioning 
this match, which feemed very fuitable.the one being 
a very ingenious fellow , and the other an excellent, 


) 


. 

Digitized by Goo glc j 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ' 319 

dexterous , and fenlible houfe-wife , fit to be gover- 
nefs of the -whole ifland : fo we married them the 
fame day •, and as I was her father , and gave her 
away , fo I gave her a handfome portion , appoint- 
ing her and her husband a convenient large fpace of 
ground for their plantation. The sharing out of the 
land I left to Will. Atkins , who really divided it 
very juftly, to every perfon’s fatisfa&ion: they only 
defired one general writing under my hand for the 
whole , which I caufed to be drawn up , figned and 
fealed to them , fetting out their bounds, and giving 
them a right to the whole poffefiion of their refpec- 
tive plantations , with their improvements , to them 
and their heirs , referving all the reft of the ifland as 
my own property, and a certain rent for every par- 
ticular plantation, after eleven years. As to their laws 
and government, Iexhorted them to love one another: 
and as to the Indians who lived in a nook by themfel- 
ves,I allotted three or four of them plantations , and 
the reft willingly chofe to become fervants to the 
other families,by which means they were employed 
in ufeful labour, and fared much better than they 
did before. Befides , the favages being thus mixed 
with the Chriftians , the work of their converfion 
might be fet on foot by the latter , in the clergyman’s 
abfence , to our equal fatisfa&ion. The young prieft, 
however , was a little anxious left the Chriftians 
should not be willing to do their parts in inftru&ing 
thofe poor Indians : I therefore told him , we should 
call them all together ; that he should fpeak to the 
Spaniards who were Papifts , and I to the English 

04 




Digitized by Google 


jio LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

■who were Proteftants , and make them promife that 
they would never make any diftin&ion in religion , 
but teach the general true knowledge of God, and 
hisfon Jefus Chrift, in order to convert the poor 
favages. And this , indeed , they all promifed us ac- 
cordingly. 

When I came to Will. Atkins’s houfe , I found his 
baptized wife, and the young woman newly married 
to my Jack of all trades , were become great inti- 
mates , and difcourfing of religion together. O , Sir, 
fays Will. Atkins, when Godhasfinners to reconcile 
to himfelf , he never wants an inftruftor : I knew I 
was unworthy for fo good a work , and therefore 
this young woman has been fent hither as it were 
from heaven , who is fufficient to convert a whole 
ifland of favages. The young woman blushed , and 
was going to rife: but I defired her to fit ftill , and 
hoped that God would blefs her in fo good a work , 
and then, pulling out a Bible , (which I brought on 
purpofe in my pocket for him), Here , Atkins , faid I, 
here is ah afliftant that perhaps you had not before. 
So confounded was the poor man , that it was fome 
time before he could fpeak at laft , turning to his 
wife , My dear , he faid , did I not tell you that God 
could hear what we faid ? Here’s the book I prayed 
for , when you and I kneeled under the bush : God 
then heard us , and now has fent it. The woman was 
furprifed, and thought really God had fent that indi- 
vidual book from heaven •, but I turned to the young 
woman, and defired her to explain to the new convert, 
ihatGod may properly be faid to anfwer our petitions. 


Digitized 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 311 

when, in the courfe of his providence,fuch particular 
things come to pafs as we petitioned for. This the 
young woman did effettually ; but furely Will. At- 
kins’s joy cannot be exprefied no man being more 
tlftnkful for any thing in the world , than he was for 
his Bible , nor delired it from a better principle. 

After feveral religious difcourfes, I delired the 
young woman to give me an account of the anguish 
she felt when she was ftarving to death for hunger •, 
to which she readily coiifented, and began in the 
following manner : 

« Sir , faid she , « all our victuals being gone, 
after 1 had faded one day , my ftomach was very 
fickish, and, at the approach of night , I was inclined 
to yawning , and fleepy. When I flept upon the 
couch three hours , I awakeda little refreshed : three 
hours after, my ftomach being more and more lickish, 
I lay down again , but could no: fteep , being very 
faint and ill. Thus I pafted the fecond day with a 
ftrange variety , firft hungry , then fick again, with 
Teachings to vomit : that night I dreamed I was at 
Barbadoes , buying plenty of provifions , and dined 
heartily. But when I awaked , my fpirits were ex- 
ceedingly funk , to findmyfelfin the extremity of 
famine. There was but one glafs of wine , which 
being mixed with fugar , I drank up •, but for want 
of fubftance to digeft upon , the fumes of it got into 
my head , and made me fenfelefs for fome time. The 
third day I was fo ravenous and furious, that I could 
have eaten a little child if it had\come in my way ; 
during which time , 1 was as mad as any creature in 

O 5 




Digitized by Coogle 


32 Z LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

bedlam. In one ofthefe fits I fell down , and ftruck 
my face againft the corner of a pallet bed , where my 
miftrefs lay: the blood gushed out of my nofe, but by 
my exceflive bleeding, both the violence of the fever, 
and the ravenous part of the hunger abated. Afjpr 
this , I grew fick again , ftrove to vomit , but could 
not-, then bleeding a fecond time, I fwooned away as 
dead-, when I came to myfelf,I had a dreadful gnawing 
pain in my ftomach , which went off towards night, 
with a longing defire for food. 1 took a draught of 
water and fugar , but it came up again-, then I drank 
water without fugar , and that ftaid with me. I laid 
me down on the bed , praying God would take me a- 
way -, after I had flumbered , I thought myfelf a-dying, 
therefore recommended my foul to God, and wished 
fomebody would throw me into the fea. All this 
while my departing miftrefs lay by me •, the laft bit 
of bread she had , she gave it to her dear child , my 
young mafter. The morning after , I fell into a vio- 
lent paffion of crying, and after that into hunger. 1 
efpied the blood that came from my nofe in a bafon, 
Which I immediately fwallowed up. At night I had 
the ufual variations , as pain in the ftomach , fick , 
fleepy , and ravenous ; and I had no thought but that 
1 shoulddie before morning. In the morning came 
on terrible gripings in my bowels. At this time , I 
heard my young matter’s lamentations , by which I 
underftood his mother was dead. Soon after, the Tai- 
lors cried , A fail ! a fail ! hallooing as if they were 
diftra&ed, for joy of that relief, which afterwards we 
received from your hands >*, 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 323 

Surely never was a more diftindt account of Var- 
ying to death than this But to return to the difpoii- 
tion of things among my people , I did not take any 
notice to them of the Hoop that I had framed, neither 
would l leave them the two pieces of brafs cannon , 
or the two quarter-deck guns that I had on board , 
left, upon anydifguft, they should have feparated, 
or turned pirates , and fo made the iflaud a den of 
thieves, inftead of a plantation of fober pious people: 
but leaving them in a flourishing condition , with a 
promife to fend them further relief from Brazil, as 
sheep, hogs , and cows , (being obliged to kill the lat- 
ter at fea , having no hay to feed them ) , I went on 
board the ship again , the flrft of May 1693 , after 
having been twenty days among them : and next 
morning, giving them afalute of five guns at parting, 
we fet fail for the Brazils. The third day , towards 
evening, there happening a calm, and the current 
being very ftrong.we were drove to the N. N. E. to- 
wards the land. Some hours after we perceived the fea 
covered as it were with fomething very black , not 
eafily at firft to be difcovered : upon which our chief 
mate afeending the shrouds a little way , and taking 
a view with a perfpe&ive glafs,he cries out, an Army! 
An army , you fool , faid I , what do you mean ? Nay, 
Sir , faid he , don’t be angry, I afliire you it is not 
only an army , but a fleet too •, for I believe there are 
athoufand canoes paddling along , and making with 
great hafte towards us. 

Indeed every one of us werefurprifed at this rela- 
tion: and my nephew the captain could not tell what 

O 6 


324 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

to think of it, but thought we should all be devoured* 
Nor was I free from concern, when I confidered how 
much we were becalmed , and what a ftrong current 
fet towards the shore : however , I encouraged him 
not to be afraid , but bring the ship to an anchor, as 
foon as we were certain that we mull engage them. 
Accordingly we did fo , and furled all our fails : as to 
the favages , we feared nothing , but only that they 
might fet the ship on fire •, to prevent which I order* 
ed them to get their boats out , and fallen them , one 
clofe by the head , and the other by the Hern , well 
manned , with skeets and buckets to extinguish the 
flames , should it fo happen. The favages foon came 
up with us , but there were not fo many as the mate 
had faid , for inllead of a thoufand canoes, there were 
only one hundred and twenty, too many indeed foe 
us , feveral of their canoes containing about fixteea 
or feventeen men. 

As they approached us , they feemed to be in the 
greatell amazement, not knowing what to make of us. 
They rowed round the ship , which occafioned us to 
call to the men in the boats , not to fuffer them to 
come near them. Hereupon they beckoned to the 
favages to keep back , which they accordingly did v 
but at their retreat they let fly about fifty arrows a- 
mong us, and very much wounded one of our men in 
the longboat. 1 called to them not to fire upon any 
account , but handing them down fome deal-boards; 
the carpenters made them a kind of a fence to shield 
them from the arrows. In half an hour after they 
came fo near afiern of us , that we had a perfect fight 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 31* 

of them ; then they rowed a little farther out , till 
they came direCtiy along fide of us, and then approach- 
ed fo near as they could hear us. fpeak : this made 
me order all our men to keep clofe , and get their 
guns ready. In the mean time I ordered Friday to 
go out upon deck , and ask them in his language 
what they meant ? No fooner did he do fo, but fix 
of the favages, who were in the foremoft canoes,ftoop- 
ing down, shewed us their naked backfides, as much 
as to fay in English , Kijs our — : but Friday quickly 
knew what this meant , by immediately crying out 
they wer& going to shoot ; unfortunately for him * 
poor creature! who fell under the cloud of three hun- 
dred arrows , no lefs than feven piercing through his 
body, killing one of the beft of fervants,and faithful- 
left of companions in all my folitudes and afflictions* 
So enraged was I at the death of poor Friday, that 
the guns, which before were charged with only pow- 
der , to frighten them , I ordered to be loaded with 
fmallshot; nor did the gunners fail in their aim, but 
at this broadfidefplitandoverfet thirteen or fourteen 
of their canoes , which killed numbers of them , and 
fet the reft a fwimming : the others , frightened out 
of their wits, little regarding their fellows drowning, 
fcoured away as faft as they could.One poor wretch 
our people took up , fwimming for his life , an hour 
after. He was very fullen at firft , fo that he would 
neither eat nor fpeak: but I took a way to cure him, by 
ordering them to throw him into the fea, which they; 
did , and then he came fwimming back like a cork ; 
calling in his tongue , as I fuppofe , to fave him. So. 


y.6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

we took him on board, butit was a long time before 
we could make him fpeak or underftand English-, yet 
when we hadtaught him,he told us, they were going 
with their kings to fight a great battle rand when we 
asked him , what made them come up to us ? he laid, 
to makee de great wonder look : w r here , it is to be 
noted, that thofe natives, and thofe of Africa, always 
add two e’s at the end of English words , as makee , 
takee , and the like , from which it is a very difficult 
thing to make them break off. 

Being now under fail, we took our laft farewell of 
poorhoneft Friday, and interred him with all poffible 
decency and foleranity ; putting him into a coffin , 
and committing him to the deep , at the fame time 
caufing eleven guns to be fired for him. Thus ended 
the life of one of the raoft grateful , faithful, honeft, 
and affectionate fervants , that ever any man was 
bleffed with in the world. 

Having now a fair wind for Brazil, in about twelve 
days time wemadeland in the latitude offivedegrees 
fouth of the line. Four days we kept on S. by E. in 
fight of shore, when we made cape St Auguftine,and 
in three days we came to an anchor off the bay of 
All Saints . I had great difficulty here to get leave to 
hold correfpondenceon shore; for neither the figure 
of my partner , my two merchant truftees , nor the 
fame ofmy wonderful prefervation intheifland,could 
procure me the favour, till fuch time as the prior of 
themonaftery oftheAuguftines (to whom Ihadgiven 
500 moidores) obtained leave from the governor, for 
me personally, with the captain and one more , toge* 


w 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 317 

ther with eight Tailors, to come on shore ; upon this 
condition ,that we should not land any goods out of 
the ship, or carry any perfon away without licence : 
I found means however to get on shore three bales of 
English goods , fuch as fine broad cloths , fluffs , and 
Tome linen, which I brought as a prefent for my part- 
ner,who had Tent me on board a prefent of fresh pro- 
vifions , wine , andfweatmeats , worth above thirty 
moidores , including Tome tobacco , and three or four 
fine gold medals. 

Here I delivered my partner in goodsto the value 
of 100 1 . Sterling , and obliged him to fit-up the floop 
I bought , for the ufe of my ifland , in order to fend 
them refreshments: and foaftive was he in this mat- 
ter , that he had the veffel finished in a few days , to 
the matter of which I gave particular inftruttions to 
find the place. 1 foon loaded him with a froall car- 
go: and one of our failors offered to fettle there, upon 
my letter to the Spanish governor , if I would allot 
him tools and a plantation. This I willingly grant- 
ed , and gave him the favage we had taken prifoner 
to be his flave. All things being ready for the voy- 
age , my old partner told me , there was an acquain- 
tance of his, a Brazil planter , who having fallen un- 
der the difpleafure of the church , and in fear of the 
Inquifition, which obliged him to be concealed, would 
be glad of fuch an opportunity to make his efcape , 
■with his wife and two daughters ; and if I would al- 
lot them a plantation in my ifland , he would give 
them a fmall flock to begin with , for that the officers 
bad already feized his effects and ettate , and left him 



Digitized by Google 


5 


3i$ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

nothing but a little houshold fluff, and two flaves. 
This requeftl prefently granted, concealing him and 
his family on board our ship , till fuch time as the 
(loop ( where all the effedts were ) was gone out of 
the bay , and then we put them on board , who car* 
ried fome materials , and plants for planting fugar- 
canes , along with them. By this floop, among othef 
things, I fent my fubjedts 3 milch cows and five cal ves, 
about 22 hogs , 3 fows big with pig , 2 mares and a 
flone horfe. I alfo engaged three Portugal women 
to go for falce of the Spaniards, which, with the per- 
fecuted man’s two daughters , were fufticient, fince 
the reft had wives of their own , though in another 
country •, all which cargo arrived fafe , no doubt to 
their exceeding comfort , who , with this addition , 
Were about fixty or feventy people, befldes children. 

At this place, my truly honeft and pious clergyman 
left me -, for a ship being ready to fet fail for Lisbon, 
he asked me leave to go thither *, but I affure you, it 
was with the greateft reludlancy I parted from a per- 
fon , whofe virtue and piety merited the greateft 
efteem. 

From the Brazils, we made diredtly over the Atlantic 
ocean, to the Cape of Good Hope, having a tolerable 
good voyage , fleering for the moft part S. E. We 
were on a trading voyage , and had a fupercargo on 
board , who was to diredt all the ship’s motions after 
she arrived at the Cape , only being limited to a cer- 
tain number of days , for flay , by charter party , at 
the feveral ports she was to go to. At the Cape , we 
only took in fresh water , and then failed for the* 




OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3*9 
coaft of Coromandel; we were there informed, that a 
French man of war of 50 guns , and two large mer- 
chant ships , were failed for the Indies , but we heard 
no more of them. 

- In our paffage , we touched at the ifland of Mada- 
gafcar , where , though the inhabitants are naturally 
fierce and treacherous, and go conftantly armed with 
- bows and lances , yet for fome time they treated us 
civilly enough ; and, in exchange for knives, fciffars, 
and other trifles, they brought us eleven good fat bul- 
locks, which we took partly for prefent fresh vi&uals, 
and the remainder to fait for the ship’s ufe. 

So curious was I to view every corner of the world 
where I came to , that I went on shore as ofren as I 
could. One evening when on shore , we obferved 
numbers of the people ftand gazing at us at a di- 
ftance. We thought ourfelves in no danger , as they 
had hitherto ufed us kindly. However , we cut three 
boughs out of a tree , flicking them at a diftance from 
us, which, it feems, in that country, is not only a to- 
ken of truce and amity , but when poles or boughs 
are fet up on the other fide , it is a fign the truce is 
accepted. In thefe treaties , however, there is one 
principal thing to be regarded , that neither party 
come beyond one another’s three poles or boughs; fo 
that the middle fpace is not only fecure, but is alfo 
allowed as a market for traffic and commerce : when 
the truce is thus accepted, they flick up their javelins 
and lances at the firft poles , and come on unarmed ; 
but, if any violence is offered, away they run to their 
poles , take up their weapons , and then the truce is 


Digitized by Google 


330 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

at an end. This evening , it happened that a greater 
number of people than ufual, both men and -women, 
traded among us for fuch toys as we had , with fuch 
great civility , that we made us a little tent of large 
boughs of trees , fome of the men refolving to lie 
onshore all night: But, for my part, I and fome 
others took our lodging in the boat, with boughs of 
trees fpread over it, having a fail fpread at the bottom 
to lie upon. About two o’clock in the morning , we 
were awakened by the firing of muskets , and our 
men crying out for help , or elfe they would all be 
murdered. Scarce had we time to get the boat ashore, 
when our men came plunging themfelves into the 
water , with about four hundred of the iflanders at 
their heels. We took up feven of the men , three of 
them very much wounded, and one left behind killed, 
while the enemy poured their arrows fo thickamong 
us , that, we were forced to make a barricade , with 
boards lying at the fide of the boat, to shield us from 

I* 

danger •, and , having got ready our fire arms , we re- 
turned them a volley,which wounded feveral of them, 
as we could hear by their cries. In this condition 
we lay till break of day , and then making fignals of 
diftrefs to the ship , which my nephew the captain 
heard and underftood, he weighed anchor, and flood 
as near the shore as poflible, and then fent another 
boat with ten hands in her to afiift us ; but we called 
to them not to come near , informing them of our 
unhappy condition. However, they ventured; when 
one of the men taking the end of a tow line in his 
one hand, and keeping our boat between him and our 


Digitized by Goc 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 331 

adverfaries , fwam on board us , and made faft our 
line to the boat ; upon this, flipping our cables , they 
towed us out of the reach of their arrows, and quick- 
ly after , a broadflde was given them from the ship, 
which made a moft dreadful havock among them. 
When we got on board, we examined into the occa- 
fion of this fray j the men who fled informed us, that 
an old woman , who fold milk within the poles, had 
brought a young woman with her, who carried roots 
or herbs , the fight of whom fo much tempted our 
men, that they offered rudenefs to the maid,at which 
the old woman fet up a great cry ; nor would the 
failors part with the prize •, but carried her among 
the trees , while the old woman went, and brought a 
whole army down upon them.At the beginning of the 
atcack,one of our men was killed with a lance, and the 
fellow who began the mifchief, paid dear enough for 
his miftrefs , though as yet we did not know what 
had become of him ; the reft luckily efcaped. The 
third night after the adion , being curious to under- 
ftand how affairs flood, I took the fupercargo , and 
twenty flout fellows with me, and landed about two 
hours before midnight, at the fame place where thofe 
Indians flood the night before, and there we divided 
our men into two bodies, the boatfwain commanding 
one , and I another. It was fo dark , that we could 
fee nobody , neither did we hear any voice near us : 
but by and by the boatfwain falling over a dead bo- 
dy, we agreed to halt till the moon should rife, which 
we knew would be in an hour after. We perceived 
here no fewer than two and thirty bodies upon the 


Digitized by Google 


331 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ground, whereof two were not quite dead. Satisfied 
with this difcovery, I was for going on board again •, 
but the boatfwain and the reft told me , they would 
make a vifit to the Indian town, where thofe dogs, fo 
they called them, refided, asking me at the fame time 
to go along with them •, for , they did not doubt , 
befides getting a good booty, but they shouldfindTont 
Jeffery there, for that was the unhappy man we mif- 
fed. But I utterly refufed to go , and commanded 
them back, being unwilling to hazard their lives , as 
the fafety of the ship wholly depended upon them. 
Notwithftanding all I could fay to them, they all left 
me but one, and the fupercargo : fo we three return- 
ed to the boat, where a boy was left, refolving toftay 
till they returned. At parting I told them I fuppofed 
moft of them would run the fame fate with Tom 
Jeffery. To this they replied , Come , boys, come along, 
we'll warrant we'll come off fafe enough : and fo away 
they went, notwithftanding all my admonitions , ei- 
ther concerning their own fafety, or the prefervation 
of the ship. Indeed , they were gallantly armed , 
every man having a musket, bayonet, and a piftol.be- 
fides cutlaffes , hangers , pole-axes , and hand grana- 
does. They came to a few Indian houfes at firft , 
which not being the town they expe&ed, they went 
farther , and finding a cow tied to a tree , they con- 
cluded that she would be a fufficient guide , and fo it 
proved ; for, after they untied her , she led them di- 
reftly tothe town,which conlifted of above two hun- 
dred houfes, feveral families living infome of the huts 
together At their arrival , all being in a profound 



r 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 333 

Beep , the Tailors agreed to divide themfelves into 
three bodies , and fet three parts of the town on 
■fire at once , to kill thofe that were efcaping , and 
plunder the reft of the houfes. Thus defperately re- 
folved , they went to work ; but the firft party had 
not gone far, before they called out to the reft , that 
they had found Tom Jeffery-, whereupon they all ran 
up to the place , and found the poor fellow indeed 
hanging up naked by one arm , and his throat cut 
almoft from ear to ear : in a houfe that was hard by 
the tree they found fixteen or feventeen Indians, who 
had been concerned in the fray, two or three of them 
being wounded , who were not gone to fleep ; this 
houfe they fet on fire firft, and, in a few minutes after, 
fiveor fixplacesmoreinthetown appeared in flames. 
The conflagration fpread like wild fire, their houfes 
being all of wood , and covered with flags or rushes. 
The poor affrighted inhabitants endeavoured to run 
out to fave their lives, but they were driven back in* 
to the flames by the Tailors, and killed without mer- 
cy. At the firft houfe above mentioned, after theboat- 
fwain had flain two with his pole-axe , he threw a 
hand-granado into the houfe, which burfting , made a 
terrible havock, killing and wounding moft of them ; 
and their king and moft of his train , who were then 
in that houfe , fell vi&ims to their fury , every crea- 
ture of them being either fmothered or burnt. All 
this while they never fired a gun, left the people should 
awaken fafter than they could overpower them. But 
the fire awakened them faft enough , which obliged 
our fellows to keep together in bodies. By this time 


Digitized by Google 


334 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

the whole town was in a flame, yet their fury rather 
increased , calling out to one another to remember 
Tom Jeffery. The terrible light of this conflagration 
made me very uneafy , and roufed my nephew the 
captain , and the reft of his men , who knew nothing 
of the matter.Whcnheperceived the dreadful fmoke, 
and heard the guns go off, he readily concluded his 
men were in danger •, he , therefore, takes another 
boat , and comes ashore himfelf , with thirteen men 
well armed. He was greatly furprifed to fee me and 
only two men in the boat , but more fo when I told 
him the ftory ■, but though I argued with him , as I 
did with his men 4 about the danger of the voyage , 
the interefts of the merchants and owners , and the 
fafety of the ship, yet my nephew, like the reft, de- 
clared, that he would rather lofe the ship, his voyage, 
his life , and all , than his men should be loft for want 
of help : and fo away he went. For my part , feeing 
him refolved to go , I had not power to ftay behind. 
He ordered the pinnace back again for twelve men 
more , and then we marched dire&ly as the flame 
guided us. But furely never was fuch a fcene of hor- 
ror beheld, or more difmal cries heard, except when 
Oliver Cromwell took Drogheda in Ireland , where 
he neither fpared man , woman , or child. 

The firft objeft , I think , we met with , was the 
ruins of one of their habitations , before which lay 
four men and three women killed , and two more 
burnt to death among the fire , which was now de- 
caying. Nothing could appear more barbarous than 
this revenge : none more cruel than the authors of it. 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


33 ? 

As we went on, the fire increafed , and the cry pro- 
ceeded in proportion. We had not gone much far- 
ther , when we beheld three naked women, follow- 
ed by fixteen or feventeen men , flying with the 
greateft fwiftnefs from our men , who shot one of 
them in our fight. When* they perceived us , whom 
they fuppofed alfo their murtherers.they fet up a moft 
dreadful shriek , and both of them l’wooned away in 
the fright. This was a fight which might have foft- 
ened the hardeft heart : and , in pity , we took fome 
ways to let them know we would not hurt them , 
while the poor creatures, with bended knees, and lift- 
ed up hands, made piteous lamentations to us to fave 
their lives. I ordered our men not to hurt any of 
the poor creatures whatfoever ; but being willing to 
underftand the occafion of all this , I went among 
v thefe unhappy wretches, who neither underftood me, 
nor the good I meant them. However , being re- 
folved to put an end to this barbarity , I ordered the 
men to follow me. We had not gone fifty yards 
before we came up with the boatfwain , with four 
of our men at his heels , all of them covered with 
blood and duft , and in fearch of more people to fa- 
tiate their vengeance. As foon as we faw them , we 
called out, and made them underftand who we 
were •, upon which they came up to us , fetting up a 
halloo of triumph, in token that rhore help was come. 
Noble captain, faidhe to my nephew. I’m glad you’re 
come : we have not half done with thefe villanous 
hell-hound dogs , we’ll root out the very nation of 
them from the earth, and kill more than poof Tom 



336 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

has hairs upon his head : and thus he went on till I 
interrupted him. Blood-thirfty dog ! faid I, will your 
cruelty never end ? I charge you touch not one crea- 
ture more •, flop your hands, and ftand ftill, or you’re 
a dead man this moment. Why , Sir , faid he , you 
neither know whom you are prote&ing , nor what 
they have done : but , pray, come hither, and behold 
an inftance of compaffion , if fuch can merit your cle- 
mency ; and with that he shewed me the poor fellow 
with his throat cut , hanging upon the tree. 

Indeed , here was enough to fill their breafts with 
rage , which , however , I thought had gone too far, 
agreeable to thefe words of Jacob to his Tons Simeon 
and Levi ; Curfed be their anger , for it was fierce ; 
and their wrath , for it was cruel. But this fight 
made my nephew and the reft as bad as they •, nay i 
my nephew declared , his concern was only for his 
men ; as for the people , not a foul of them ought to 
live. Upon this , the boatfwain and eight more di- 
rectly turned about , and went to finish the intended 
tragedy -, which being out of my power to prevent, I 
returned back both from the difmal fight, and the pi- 
teous cries of thofe unfortunate creatures, who were 
made victims to their fury. Indeed , it was an egre- 
gious piece of folly in me to return to the boatwith 
but one attendant •, and I had very near paid for it , 
having narrowly efcaped forty armed Indians , who 
had been alarmed by the conflagration j but having 
palled the place where they flood, I got to the boat^ 
accompanied with the fupercargo , and fo went on 
board , fending the pinnace back again , to aflift the 

men 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 337 

men in what might happen. When I had got to the . 
boat , the fire was almoft extinguished, and the noife 
abated ; but I had fcarce been half an hour on board 
the ship , when l heard another Volley given by our 
failors , and a great fmoke , which , as I afterwards 
found , was our men falling upon thofe houfes and 
perfons that flood between them and the fea : but 
here they fpared the wives and children , and killed 
only the men , to the number of about fixteen or fe- 
venteen. By the time they got to the shore, the pin- 
nace and the ship’s boat were ready to receive them, 
and they all got fafe on board , not a man of them 
having received the leaft hurt , except two , one of 
whom drained his foot, and the other burnt his hand 
a little ; for they met with no refiftance, the poor In- 
dians being unprepared , amazed , and confounded. 

I was extremely angry with every one of them,’ 
but particularly with the captain , who , inftead of 
cooling the rage of the men , had prompted them on 
to further mifchief : nor could he make me any 
other excufe, but, that as he was a man , he could not 
matter his paflions at the fight of one of his men 
fo cruelly murdered. As for the reft , knowing they 
were not under my command , they took no notice 
of my anger ; but rather boafted of their revenge. 
According to all their accounts, they killed or de- 
flroyed about one hundred and fifty men , women . 
and children , befides burning the town to ashes. 
They took their companion Tom Jeffery from the 
tree, covered him with fome of the ruins , and fo left 
him. But , however this action of our men might 

e 


Digitized by Google 


33« LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

feera to tliem juftifiable , yet I always openly con* 
demned it with the appellation of the Maffacre of 
Madagafcar. For , though they had flain this Jeffe- 
ry, yet certainly he was the firft aggreffor , by at- 
tempting to violate the chaftity of a young innocent 
woman , who venturing down to them , on the faith 
of the public capitulation, which was fo treacheroufly 
broken. 

■While we were under fail , the boatfwain would 
often defend this bloody a&ion, by faying , that the 
Indians had broke the truce the night before , by shooting 
one of our men without juft provocation : and what if 
the poor fellow had taken a little liberty with the wench t 
he ought not to have been murdered in fo villanous « 
manner : and that they had acled nothing but what the 
divine laws commijjfloned to be done to fuch homicides . 
However, I was in the fame mind as before, telling 
them that they were murderers, and bid him depend 
Upon’t , that God would blaft their voyage for fuch 
an unparallclled piece of barbarity. 

When we came into the gulf of Perfia , five of our 
men , who ventured on shore , were either killed or 
made flaves by the Arabians, the reft of them having 
fcarce time to efcape to their boat. This made me 
upbraid them afresh with the juft retribution of hea- 
ven for fuch aftions •, upon which the boatfwain ve- 
ry warmly asked me, Whether thofe men on whom 
the tower of Siloam fell , were greater finners than 
the reft of the Galileans ? and befides , Sir , faid he, 
none of thefe five poor men that are loft, were with 
Us at the maffacre of Madagafcar , as you call it ; 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 333 

and, therefore, your reprehenfion is very unjuft, and 
your application improper. Befides , added he , you 
are continually ufing the men very ill , upon this ac- 
count, and being but a paffenger yourfelf, ve are 
not obliged to bear it ; nor can we tell what ill de- 
figns you may have to bring us to judgment for it in 
England ; and, therefore, if you do not leave this dif- 
courfe, as alfo not concern yourfelf with any of our 
affairs, I will leave the ship, and not fail among fuclj 
dangerous company. . $ 

All this I heard very patiently ■, but, it being often 
repeated , I at length told him , the concern I had on 
board was none of his bufinefs : that I was a conft- 
derablc owner in the ship , and therefore had a right 
to fpeak in common , and that I was no way ac- 
countable to him , nor to any body elfe. As no 
morepaffed for fome time after,I thought all had been 
over. At this time we were in the road of Bengal, 
where, going on shore with the fupercargo, one day, 
in the evening, as I was preparing to go on board, one 
of the men came to me , and told me , I need not 
trouble myfelf to come to the boat , for that the 
cockfwain and others had ordered him not to carry 
me on board any more. This infolent meffage 
much furprifed me ; yet I gave him no anfwer to it , 
but went dire&ly and acquainted the fupercargo, en- 
treating him to go on board , and, by acquainting the 
captain with it, prevent the mutiny which I percei- 
ved would happen. But before I had fpoken this , 
the matter was effe&ed on board; for no fooner 
was he gone off in the boat, but the boatfwain. 

P* 


54$ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
gunner, carpenter , and all the inferior officers, camft 
to the quarterdeck , defiring to fpeak with the cap- 
tain and there the boatfwain made a long harangue, 
exclaiming againft me , as before mentioned , that , 
if I had not gone ashore peaceably , for my own di- 
verfion,they, by violence, would have compelledme 
for their fatisfa&ion : that , as they had shipped with 
the captain , fo they would faithfully ferve him ; 
but , if I did not quit the ship , or the captain oblige 
me to it , they would leave the ship immediately : 
hereupon , turning his face about by way of lignal , 
they all cried out , ONE and ALL , ONE and 
ALL. 

You may be fure , that though my nephew was a 
man of great courage., yet he could not be but fur- 
prifed at their fudden and unexpe&ed behaviour ; 
and , though he talked ftoutly to them , and after- 
wards cxpoftulated with them , that , in common 
juftice to me , who was a conliderable owner in the 
ship , they could not turn me , as it were , out of my 
own houfe, which might bring their lives in danger, 
should they ever be taken in England •, nay, though 
he invited the boatfwain on shore to accommodate 
matters with me ; yet all this, I fay, lignified nothing: 
they would have nothing to do with me ; and 
they were refolving to go on shore , if I came on 
hoard. Well , faid my nephew , if you are fo re- 
folved , permit me to talk with him , and then I have 
done : and fo he came to me , giving me an account 
of their refolution , how one and all defigned to for* 
(ake the ship when I came on board , for which he 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 34s 

was mightily concerned. I am glad to fee you , ne- 
phew , faid I , and rejoice it is no wOrfe , fince they 
have not rebelled againft you : I only defire you to 
fend my neceffary things on shore , with a fufficient 
fum of money , and I will find my way to England , 
as well as I can. Though this grieved my nephew 
to the heart , yet there was no remedy but compli- 
ance ; in short, all my neceffaries were fent me , and 
fo this matter was over in a few hours. 

I think I was now near a thoufand leagues farther 
off England by fea , than at my little kingdom , ex- 
cept this difference , that l might travel by land over 
the Great Mogul’s country to Surat, from thence up 
to Baffora , by fea up the Perfian gulf, then take the 
way of the caravans over the Arabian defert to Aleppo 
and Scanderoon , there take shipping to Italy , and 
fo travel 1 y land into France , and from thence crofs 
the fea to England. 

My nephew left me two perfons to attend me \ 
one of them was his fervant , and the other clerk 
to the purfer ; who engaged to be mine. I took lod- 
gings in an English woman’s houfe, where feveral 
French , one English , and two Italian merchants re- 
fided. The handfome entertainment I met with 
here, occafioned me to flay nine months confidering 
what courfe I should take. Some English goods I 
had with me of great value, befides a thoufand pieces 
of eight , and a letter of credence for more , if there 
was fuch neceflity. The goods l foon dtfpofed o£ 
to advantage , and bought here feverai good dia- 
monds , which I could eafily carry about with me. 

P 3 


LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

One morning the English merchant came to me , as 
being very intimate together, Countryman , faid he , I 
have a project to communicate to you , which , I hope , 
will fait to both our advantage. To be short , Sir , 
we are both in a remote part of the world from our 
country ; but yet in a place where men of bufinefs may 
get a great d$al of money. Now , if you will put a 
thoufarid pounds to my thoufand pounds , we will hire a 
ship to our fatisfaclion : you shall be captain , I will be 
merchant : and we’ll go a trading voyage to China ; 
for why should we lie fill like drones , while the whole 
world is in a continual motion. 

This propofal Toon got my confent , being very 
agreeable to my rambling genius; and the more To , 
becaufe I looked upon my countryman to be a very 
fincere perfon; it required fome time before we could 
get a veffel to our mind , and Tailors to man it ac- 
cordingly ; at length , we bought a ship , and got an 
English mate , boatfwain , and gunner , Dutch car- 
penter , and three Portuguefe foremaft-men ; and, for 
Want of others , made shift with Indian Teamen. "We 
firft Tailed to Achin, in the ifland of Sumatra, and then 
to Siam , were we bartered our wares for fome ar„ 
rack and opium , the laft of which bore a great price 
among the Chinefe ; in a word , we went up to 
Suskan , making a very great voyage ; and , after 
eight months time , I returned to Bengal , very well 
iatisfied with this adventure , having not only got a 
fufficient quantity of money, but an iniight of getting 
? great deal more. 

The next voyage my friend propofed to me, was 


OF ROBINSON CRUSO[E. . 341 

to go among the Spice iflands, and bring home a load 
of cloves from the Manillas , or thereabouts , iflands 
belonging partly to Spain, but where the Dutch trade 
very confiderably. We were not long preparing fo* 
this voyage , which we made no lefs fuccefsful than 
the laft, touching at Bornea, and feveral other places 
which I do not perfectly remember , and returning 
home in about five mouths time. We foon fold out 
fpices, which were chiefly cloves,and fome nutmegs, 
to the Perfian merchants, who carried them away for 
the gulf; and , in short , making five to one advan- 
tage , we were loaded with money. 

Not long after my friend and I had made up our 
accounts , to our entire fatisfa&ion , there came in a 
Dutch coafler from Batavia , of about two hundred 
tons. The cr ew of this veffel pretended themfelves 
fo fickly , that there were not hands fufficient to 
undertake a voyage ; and the captain having given 
out that he intended to go to Europe , public notice 
was given that the ship was to be fold. No fooner 
did this come to our ears , but we bought the ship , 
paid the mailer, and took poffefiion. We would alfo 
have very willingly entertained fome of the men: 
but th ey having received their share of booty, were 
not to be found , being altogether fled to Agra , the 
greatcity of the Mogul’s refidence ; and from thence 
were to travel to Surat . and fo by fea to the Perfian 
gulf. And indeed they had reafon to fly in this 
manner : for the truth of it was , the pretended cap- 
tain was the gunner only , and not the commander: 
that haying been on a trading voyage, they were at* 

P4 




Digitized by Google 


344 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

tacked on shore by the Malayans , who killed three 
men , and the captain ; after whofe death the other 
eleven men run away with the ship to the bay of 
Bengal , and left the mate and five men more on 
shore •, but of this affair we shall have occafion to 
fpeak at more length hereafter. * 

However they came by the ship , methought we 
hought it honeftly neither did we fufpett any thing 
of the matter ; when the man shewed us a bill of 
fale for the ship ( undoubtedly forged ) to one Ema- 
nuel Cloftershoven, which name he went by. And fo 
Without any more to do , we picked up fome Dutch 
and English feamen, refolving foranothervoyagefor 
clovesamong the Philippine and Molucca iflands ; in 
short, we continued thus five or fix years, trading 
from port to port with extraordinary fuccefs ; in 
the feventh year we undertook a voyage to China, 
defigning to touch at Siam , and buy fome rice by 
the way. In this voyage , contrary winds beat us up 
and down for a confiderable time among the iflands 
in the ftraits of Molucca. No fooner were we dear 
of thofe rugged feas , but we perceived our ship had 
fprung a leak , which obliged us to put into the 
river Cambodia , which lies northward of the gulf , 
and goes up to Siam. - 

One day as I was on shore refreshing myfelf.there 
comes to me an Englishman , who was a gunner’s 
mate on board an English Eaft India ship , riding up 
th e river , near the city of Cambodia. Sir, faid he, you 
may wonder at my bufinefs , having never feen me in your 
W i but though l am a Jlranger , I have fomething to tell 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 345 

you that very nearly concerns you ; and indeed it is the 
imminent danger you are in , has moved me to give you 
this timely notice. Danger! faid I , ■what danger > I 
lenowofnone, except myshipbeingleaky, for which 
I defign to have her run aground to morrow morning. 
Sir , faid he , I hope you will be better employed, when 
you shall hear what I have to fay to you. You know the 
town of Cambodia is about 15 leagues up this river : 
about three leagues on this fide of it , there lies two Dutch 
and three English ships. And would you venture here , 
without confidering what Jlrength you had to engage 
them ? I knew not whathe meant by this difcourfe,and 
turning short upon him, Sir, faid I, I know no reafonl 
have to be afraid either of any English or Dutch ships. 
I am no interloper, and what bufinefs have they then 
with me ? Well, Sir, faid the man, if you do think your- 
felf fecure , all as 1 can fay , you mufi take your chance : 
however , I am very forry you are fo deaf to good advice ; 
but I ajfure you if you do not put to fea immediately , you 
■will be attacked by five long boats full of men , hanged 
your felf for a pirate , if you are taken , and the parti- 
culars examined afterwards. 1 thought , Sir , added he , 
I might have met with better reception for fiich a fin- 
gular piece of fervice. Sir , faid 1, 1 was never ungrate- 
ful to any man : but pray explain yourfelf , and I’ll 
go on board this minute, whether the leak be Hopped 
or no. Why, Sir, faid he, to be short, becaufe time is 
precious, the matter is this: You know well enough that 
you was with the ship at Sumatra , where your captain 
was murdered by the Malayans, with three of his fair 
lots } and that either you , or fome who were on board 

P J 


Digitized by Google 


346 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

you , ran away with the ship , and are fince turned pi- 
rates at fea. Now , Sir , this is the fumof what I had 
to fay ; and I can pofitively ajfure you , that if you be 
taken , you will be executed without much ceremony ; 
for undoubtedly you cannot but be fcnfible what little law 
merchant ships shew to pirates , whenever they fall into 
their unmerci ful hands. 

Sir, faid I, I thank you for your kind informa- 
tion *, and though , I am fure , no man could come 
more honeftly by the ship than I have done , yet 
knowing their enterprife , and being fatisfied of your 
honeft intention , I’ll be upon my defence. Prithee , 
'Sir , faid the man , don't talk of being upon your defence, 
thebefi that you can make is to be out of danger; and 
therefore , if you have any regard to your life , and the 
lives of your men , take the advantage , without fail, of 
putting out to fea at high water ; by which means , as 
you have a whole tide before you , you will be gone too far 
)OUt of their reach before they can come down. 

I am mighty well fatisfied , faid I , in this particu- 
lar , and of your kindnefs , which merits my greateft 
efieem : pray , Sir , what amends shall I make you ? 
He replied , I know not what amends you are willing 
to make , becaufe you may have fame doubts of its cer- 
tainty : but , to convince you of the truth of what I fay, 
J have one offer to make to you. On board one of the 
English ships ,1 have nineteen months pay due to me , and 
this Dutchman that is with me has feven months pay 
due to him , which if you will make good to us , we will 
■go along with you. If you shall find , that there is no- 
thing in what we have faid , then we shall defire no - 


v 


r ■ - • 

OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 347 

thing : but , when you are convinced that we have faved 
the ship , your life , and the lives of the men t . we will 
leave the whole to your ge/iero/ity. . 

So reafonable did this every way appear , that I 
immediately consented , and we went dire&ly on 
board. As foon as we came on board , my partner 
calls joyfully out, that they had flopped the leak. 
Well, thank God, faid I, but pray let us weigh 
anchor forthwith. Weigh ! faid he , what is the 
meaning of this hurry ? Pray , ask no queftions , faid 
I ,but all hands to work , without lofiag a moment’s 
time : Upon which , in great furprife , the captain 
was called , who immediately ordered the anchor to 
be got up •, and though the tide was not quite down , 
yet, being aflifted with a little land breeze , we flood 
out to fea. 1 then called my partner into the cabin , 
and related the ftory at large, which was confirmed, 
and more amplified by the two men I had brought 
on board. Scarce had we finished ; our difcqurfe , up- 
on this head , but a failor came to the cabbin door , 
with a meflage from the captain , tfiat we were 
chafed by five floops full of armed men. V ery well , 
faid I , it is plain now there is fomething in it. And 
fo, going upon deck , I told all the men there was a 
defign for feizing the ship , and of executing us for 
pirates ; and asked them , whether they would faith- 
fully ftand by us , and by one another ? To which 
they unanimoufly replied , that they would fight to 
their laft drop of blood. I then asked the captain , 
which way he thought beft for us to manage the 
battle? Sir , faid he , the only method if tp hep them off 

P 6 


by Google 


54$ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

with our great shot as long as we are ahle , and then have 
recourfe to our f mall arms : and when both thefe fail us , 
then retire to clofe quarters , when perhaps the enemy , 
wanting materials , can neither break open our bulk 
heads , nor get in upon us. Mean time the gunner was 
ordered to bring two guns to bear fore and aft our of 
the fteerage , and fo load them with musket bullets 
and fmall pieces of old iron ; and the deck being 
cleared , we prepared for the engagement, Rill, how- 
ever , keeping out at fea. The boats followed us 
with all the fail they could make , and we could per- 
ceivethe two foremoftwereEnglish, which outfailed 
the reft by two leagues , and which we found would 
come up with us: hereupon , we fired a gun without 
ball , intimating that they should bring to , and we 
put out a flag of truce , as a fignal for parley •, but , 
finding them crouding after us , till they came with- 
in shot, we took in our white , and hanging out the 
red flag , immediately fired at them with ball : we 
then called to them with a fpeaking trumpet , bid- 
ding them at their peril keep off. 

But all this fignified nothing ; for, depending up- 
on the ftrength that followed them, they were refo- 
lutely bent for mifchief : hereupon.I ordered them to 
bring the ship to , by which means , they lying upon 
our broadfide , we let fly -at them at once , one of 
whom carried away the ftern of the hindermoft boat, 
and obliged them not only to take down their fail , 
but made them all run to the head of the boat , to 
keep them from finking •, and fo she lay by , having 
enough of it. In the mean time , we prepared to 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 349 
welcome the foremoft boat in the fame manner. 
While we were doing this , one of the three hinder- 
tiofts boats came up to the relief of that which was 
difabled, and took the men out of her. We again 
called to parley with them-, but, inftead of an anfwer, 
one of the boats came clofe under our ftern •, where- 
upon , otir gunner let fly his two chace guns , but 
miffing , the men in the boat shouted , and waving 
their caps , came on with greater fury. To repair 
this feeming difgrace , the gunner foon got ready, 
and , firing the fecond time , did a great deal of mis- 
chief among the enemy. We waved again, and, 
bringing our quarter to bear upon them , fired three 
guns more , when we found the boat a-finking , and 
-Several men already in the fea ; hereupon , manning 
our pinnace , I gave orders to fave as many as they 
could , and inftantiy to come on board, becaufe the 
reft of their boats were approaching : accordingly they 
did fo , and took up three of them , one of whom was 
almoft paft recovery •, and then crouding all the fail 
we could, after our men came on board , we flood 
out farther to fea , fo that the other three boats gave 
overtheir chace. when they came up to thefirfttwo. 
Thus delivered from imminent danger , we changed 
our courfe to the eaftward , quite out of the courfe 
of all European ships. 

Being now at fea , and inquiring more particularly 
pf the two feamen , the meaning of all this , the 
Dutchman , at once , let us into the fecret. He told 
us , that the fellow who fold us the ship was an ar- 
rant thief , who had run away with her j that the 


id by Google 


rr; 


fjo LIFE AND ADVENTURES, 

captain was treacheroufly murdered on the coaft of 
Molucca by the natives there, with three of his menj 
that he , the Dutchman, and four more , being obli-. 
ged to have recourfe to the woods for their fafety, 
at length efcaped by means of a Dutch ship , in its 
way to China, which had fent their boat on shore for 
fresh water : That , after this , he went to Batavia, 
where two of the feamenbelonging to the ship (who 
had deferred the reft in their travels ) arrived , and 
there gave an account that the fellow who ran away 
with the ship had fold her at Bengal to a fet ofpirates 
who went a cruifing,and had already taken one Eng- 
lish , and two Dutch ships richly laden. 

Now , though this was abfolutely falfe , yet , con- 
cerning us dire&ly , my partner truly faid , that our 
deliverance was to be efteemed fo much the more, 
by reafon , had we fallen into their hands we could 
have expe&ed nothing from them but immediate 
death,confidering our accufers would have been our 
judges : and , therefore , his opinion was, to return 
dire&ly to Bengal , where , being known , we could 
prove how honeftly we came by the ship, of whom 
We bought her , and the like , and where we were 
fure of fome juftice ; at leaft would not be hanged 
firft , and judged afterwards. I was at firft of my 
partner’s opinion •, but when I had more ferioufly 
confidered of the matter , I told him we ran a great 
hazard in attempting to return , being on the wrong 
£de of the ftraits of Molucca , and that if, upon alarm 
given , we should be taken by the Dutch of Batavia 
c>r English elfewhere, our running away would be * 




Die 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3 5* 


Sufficient evidence to condemn us. This danger in- 
deed ftartled not only my partner, butlikewife all the 
ship’s company ; fo we changed our former refolu- 
tion.andrefolved to go to the coaft of Tonquin , and 
fo to that of China , where , purfuing our firft defign 
ttsto trade, we might likewife have an opportunity to 
difpofe of the ship fome way or other , and to return 
to Bengal in any country veffel we could procure. 
This being agreed to , we fleered away N. N. E. a- 
bout 50 leagues off the ufual courfeto the eaft, which 
put us to fome inconveniencies. As the wind blew 
fteadily againft us, our voyage became very tedious, 
and we began to be afraid of want of provifion ; and 
what was ftill worfe , we apprehended , that as thofe 
ships, from whofe boats we had efcaped, were bound 
to China , they might get before us , and have given 
fresh information, which might create another vigo- 
rous purfuit. Indeed , I could not help being grieved, 
when Iconfidered that I, who had never wronged or 
defrauded any perfon in my life , was now purfued 
like a common thief ;and, if taken, to run the great- 
eft danger of being executed as fuch ; and , though 
innocent, 1 found myfelf under the neceffity of flying 
for my fafety : and thereby efcape being brought to 
shame, of which I was even more afraid than of death 
itfelf. It was eafy to read my dejeftion in my coun- 
tenance. My mind was oppreffed , like thofe unhap- 
-py innocent perfons , who, being overpowered by 
blafphemous and perjured evidences, wickedly refol- 
Ted to take away their lives , or ruin their reputation, 


|javc no other recouxfe in this world to eafe their for- 



LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
row, but fighs , prayers, and tears. My partner fee- 
ing me fo concerned , encouraged me as well as he 
could ; and after defcribing to me the feveral ports 
of that coaft , he told me , he would either put me in 
on the coaft of Cochinchina , or elfe in the bay of 
Tonquin , from whence we might go to Macao , a 
town once pofleffed by the Portuguefe , and where 
ftill many European families refided. 

To thisplace we fteered,and , earlynext morning, 
came in fight of the coaft •, but thought it advifeable 
to put into a fmall river where we could, either over 
land , or by the ship’s pinnace , know what vefl'els 
were in any ports thereabouts. This happy ftep pro- 
ved our deliverance ; for, next morning , there came 
to the bay of Tonquin two Dutch ships, and a third 
without any colours •, and, in the evening, two Eng- 
lish ships fleered the fame courfe. The river where 
we were was but fmall, and run but a few leagues up 
the country northward : the country was wild and 
•barbarous , and the people thieves, having no corre- 
spondence with any other nation, dealing only in fish, 
oil , and fuch grofs commodities ; and one barbarous 
cuftom they ftill retained , that when any veffel was 
unhappily shipwrecked upon their coaft, they make 
the men prifoners or flaves ; fo that now we might 
fairly fay we were furroundedby enemies both by 
fea and land. 

As the ship had been leaky , we took the opportu- 
nity , in this place , to fearch her , and to flop up the 
places which let in the water., We accordingly 
lightened her , and bringing our guns and othei 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 373 

moveable things to one fide, we effayed to bring her 
down, that we might come at her bottom: but, up- 
on fecond confideration , we did not think it fafe to 
let her lie on dry ground, neither indeed was the 
place convenient for it. The inhabitants , not ufed 
to fuch a fight as to fee a ship lie down on one fide , 
and heel in towards the shore, not perceiving her 
men, who were at work on her bottom , with ftages 
and boats on the off-fide, prefently imagined the ship 
had been caft away, and lay faft on the ground. 
Agreeable to this fuppofition , they furrounded us 
(■with ten or twelve large boats , with a refolution , 
•undoubtedly , to plunder the ship , and to carry away 
thofe they found alive for flaves to their king. But 
•when they perceived our men hard at work on the 
ship’s bottom and fide , washing , graving , and flop- 
ping her , it filled them all with fuch furprife , that 
they flood gazing as though they were confounded. 
Nor could we imagine what their defign was-, how- 
ever, for fear of danger , we handed down arms and 
ammunition, to thofe at work, in order to defend 
themfelves •, and , indeed , this precaution was abfo- 
lutely nec jffary for , in a quarter of an hour after , 
the natives , concluding it was really a shipwreck , 
and that we were faving our lives and goods, which 
they thought belonged to them , came down upon 
our men , as though it had been in a line of battle. 
We lay at prefent but in a very unfit pofiure to fight-, 
and before the flages could be got down, or the men 
in the boar come on board as they were ordered,the 
Cochinchinefes were upon them , and two of their 


3J4 LIFE: AND ADVENTURES 

boats boarding our longboat , they began to lay hold 
©f our men as prifoners. The firft they feized -was 
a flout English failor , who never fired his musket , 
like a fool , as I imagined , but laid it down in the 
boat ; but he knew what he was doing •, for , by main 
force,he dragged the Pagan out of the boat into ours 
by the two ears , and knocked his brains out againfl 
the boat’s gunnel : a Dutchman that was next him 
fnatched up the musket , and knocked down five 
more with the but-end of it ; however , this was 
doing very little to their number ; but a ftrange un- 
expected accident, which rathermerits laughter than 
any thing elfe , gave our men a complete viftory 
over them. 

It feems the carpenter, who was preparing to grave 
the outfide of the ship , as well as to pay the Teams , 
where he caulked to flop the leaks , had gotten two 
kettles juft let down in the boat, one filled with 
boiling pitch , and the other with rofin , tallow, oil, 
and fuch fluff as the shipwrights ufe : the carpenter’s 
man had a great iron laddie with which he ufed to 
fupply the workmen with hot fluff, and as two of 
the enemies entered the boat where the fellow flood, 
he faluted them with a full laddie of the hot boiling 
liquor , which , the poor creatures being half naked, 
made them roar out , and jump into the fea. Well 
done , Jack , fays the carpenter, give them the other ^ 
dofe : and fo ftepping forward himfelf, takes a mop, f 
and dipping it into the pitch pot , he and his man fo 
plentifully flung it among them , as that none e* 
fcaped being CcaUedtupon which , they all made the 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 35* 

left of their way , crying and howling in fuch a 
frightful manner, that, in all my adventures, I never 
heard the like. And , indeed, never was I better 
pleafed with any conqueft than 1 was with this, there 
being fo little bloodshed , and having an averfion to 
killing fuch fa v age wretches, (more than was ne- 
ceffary ) , as knowing they came on errands , which 
their laws and cuftoms made them think were juft 
and equitable. By this time , all things being in or- 
der and the ship fwimming , they found their mi- 
ftake , fo they did not venture a fecond attack. Thus 
ended our merry fight ; and , having got fome rice , 
bread , roots , and fixteen good hogs , on board the 
day before, we fet fail , not daring to go into the bay 
of Tonquin, but fleered N. E. towards the ifle of 
Formofa, or as though we would go to the Manillas, 
or Philippine illands , for fear of meeting with any 
European ships. 'When we anchored at the ifle For- 
mofa, the inhabitants , not only courteoufly fupplied 
us with provifions and fresh water , but dealt very 
fairly and honeftly, with us in their bargains and agree- 
ments. From this place we fleered north, keeping 
ftill off the coaft of China , till we were beyond all 
its ports where European ships ufually come; and, at 
length, being come to the latitude of thirty degrees, 
we refolved to put into the firft trading port we 
should come at ; and ftanding for the shore , a boat 
came off two leagues to us with an old Portuguefe 
pilot on board , who offered his fervice ; we very 
gladly accepted him , and fent the boat back again. 
And now , having the old man onboard, I talked to 


Digitized by Google 


3J(J LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

him of going to Nanquin , the mod northward part 
of the coaft of China. What -will you do there ? 
faid he , fmiling. I told him we would fell our car- 
go, and purchafe callicoes , raw and wrought filks , 
tea , &c. and fo return the fame way back. O , faid 
he , you had better put in at Macao , where you may 
buy China wares as cheap as at Nanquin , and fell 
your opium at a greater advance. But , faid I , we are 
gentlemen as well as merchants , and defign to fee 
the great city of Pekin , and the magnificent court of 
the monarch of China. Why then , faid he , you 
should go to Ningpo,where there is a navigable river 
that goes through the heart of that vaft empire , two 
hundred and feventy leagues from the fea , which 
crofles all the rivers, paffes confiderable hills, by the 
help of the fluicesandgatcs, and goes even up to the 
city of Pekin. You may go to Nankin , if yon pleafe , 
and travel to Pekin, and there is a Dutch ship juft 
before bound that way. At the name of a Dutch or 
English ship.I was ftruck with confufion; they being 
as great a terror to me in this vefl'el , as an Algerine 
man of war is to them in the Mediterranean. The 
old man finding me troubled , Sir , faid he, I hope the 
Dutch are not now at war with your nation : No, 
faid l , but God knows what liberty they may take 
when out of the reach of the law. Why , fays he , 
what occafion is there for peaceable merchants to 
fear ? For, believe me , they never meddle with any 
but PlR/TES. 

• At the mentioning of the word pirates , my coun- 
tenance turned to that of fcarlet } nor was it poffible 


Digitized by Google 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3*7 

for me to conceal it from the old pilot ; who taking 
notice of it , Sir , faid he , take what courfeyou phafe , 
I'll do you all the fervice l can. Seignior , faid I , I 
am a little concerned at your mentioning pirates ; I 
hope there are none fuch in thefe feas , because you 
fee in what a weak condition we are to defend our- 
felves. O , Sir , faid he , if that's ull , don't be concern- 
ed , I don't remember one in thefe feas thefe fifteen 
years , except about a month ago one was Jeen in the bay 
of Siam , but she is gone to the fouthward ; neither was 
she built for a privateer , but was run away with by 
a reprobate captain , and fome of his men , the right 
captain having been murdered by the Malayans. 

"What ! faid I , ( as though igndrant of what had 
happened ) did they kill the captain ? No , faid he , it 
is generally thought the Malayans murdered him ; but 
perhaps they might procure them to do it, and therefore 
they jufily deferve hanging. The rogues were lately dif - 
covered in the bay of Siam , in the river of Cambodia , 
by fome Dutchmen who belonged to the ship , and had, 
much ado to efcape the five boats that purfued them , 
but they have all given fuch an exact defeription of 
the ship , that where-eyer they find her , they will be 
Jure to know her; and they have folemnly fw ore to give 
no quarter to the captain or the feamen , but hang them 
every one up at the yard arm , without any formal bu» 
finefs of bringing them to a court of judicature. 

Being fenfible , that , having the old man on 
hoard , he was incapable of doing me any mifehief , 
Well , Seignior, faid I, it is for this very reafon 
I would have you carry us up to Nanquin, where nei- 


Digitized by 


3*$ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ther English nor Dutch ships come : and I muft tell 
you , their captains are a parcel of rash, proud , info- 
lent rafcals , that neither know what belongs to 
juftice , nor how to behave themfelves as the laws of 
God or nature dirett; fellows that would prove mur- 
derers to punish robbers , and take upon them to 
adjudge innocent men to death , without any proof 
to prove them guilty •, but perhaps I may live to call 
them to account for it, in a place where they may 
be taught how juftice is to be executed. And fo 
I told him all the ftory of buying the ship , and how 
we were faved by the means of two men : thatthe 
murder of the captain by the Malayans , as alfo the 
running away with the ship , I believed to be true; 
but that we , who bought it , were turned pirates , 
was a mere fi&ion , to cover their cowardice and 
foolish behaviour , when they attacked us , and the 
blood of thofe men we killed in our own jull de- 
fence , lay to their door , who fent to attack us by 
furprife. 

Sir , faid the old man amazed , you have taken the 
right courfe to fteer to the north , and , if I might advifi 
you , I would have you fell your ship in China , and buy 
or build another in that country ; and I'll procure people 
to buy the one and fell the other. Well but , Seignior , 
faid I , if I fell the ship in this manner , I may bring 
fome innocent perfons into the fame danger as Ihave 
gone through, perhaps worfe,even death itfelf, where- 
by I should be as guilty of their murder as villanous 
executioners. That need not trouble you , fays the old 
man ; I'll find a way to prevent that •, for theft command* 


GF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 5^ 

trs you talk of I know very well , and will inform them 
rightly of the matter as you have related , and I am per- 
funded they will not only believe me , but act more cau* 
tiouflyfor the future. And -will you deliver one meffage 
from me to them ? Yes , faid he , if you will give it un- 
der your hand , that I may prove it is not of my own pro- 
duction. Hereupon I wrote a large account of their 
attacking me in their longboat, the pretended reafort 
and un juft defign of it •, that they had done what they 
might be ashamed of, 'and could not anfwer for at any 
tribunal in England. But this letter was writ in vain. 
Providence ordered things another way. We failed 
dire&Iy for Nanquin , and in about thirteen days 
fail , came to an anchor at the fouth weft pointof the 
great gulph of that place, where we learned that two 
Dutch ships were gone the length before us, and that 
We should certainly fall into their hands. We were 
all at a great lofs in this exigency , and would very 
gladly have been on shore almoft any where^but ouf 
old pilot told me , that if I would fail to the fouth- 
Ward about two and forty leagues , there was a little 
port called Quinchange, where no European ships 
ever came,and where we might confider what waS 
further to be done. Accordingly, we weighed anchor 
the next day, calling only twice on shore by the way 
to get fresh water. The country people very cour- 
teoufly fold us roots , tea, rice , fowls , and other pro- 
vifions. After five days fail we came to the port ,and 
landed with unfpeakable joy. We rfifolved to difpofe 
of ourfelves and effe&s in any other way poflible,than 
enter on board that ill fated veffel more j for no ftate 


Digitized by Google 


jdo LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

can be more miferable’ than a continued fear , which 
is a life of death, a confounderofour underftandings, 
that fets the imagination at work to forma thoufand 
frightful things that may never happen. And we 
fcarce ilept one night , without dreaming of halters , 
yard-arms, or gibbets-, of fighting , being taken, and 
being killed ; nay fo violent were our appreheniions, 
that we would bruife our hands and heads againft the 
fides of the cabin , as though a&ually engaged. The 
ftory of the Dutch cruelty at Amboy na often came in. 
to our thoughts when awake and , for my part , I 
thought my condition very hard , that , after fo many 
difficulties , and fuch fignal deliverances , I should be 
hanged in my old age , though innocent of any crime 
that deferved fuch punishment -, but then religioa 
would feem to reprefent to me , as though the voice 
of it had faid , Confider , O man ! what fins you have 
been formerly guilty of, which now thou art called 
to an account for, to expiate with thy blood! And 
as to thy innocence , what art thou more innocent 
than thy bleffed Redeemer Jefus Chrift, who fuffered 
for thy offences , and to whofe providence you ought 
to fubmit , let what will happen ? After this natural 
courage would infpire me to refill to the laft drop of 
blood , and fooner die than fuffer myfelf to be taken 
by boorish, rafcally Dutchmen, who had arts to 
torment beyond death itfelf. 

But now, thank kind Heaven, being ashore, our 
old pilot procured us a lodging and a warehoufe for 
our goods ; it was a little hut with a large warehoufe 
joining to it , all built with canes , and pallifadoed 

round 


OF R OBINSON CRUSOE. 361 

round with large ones, to keep out pilfering thieves, 
which are very numerous in that country. The ma- 
giftrates allowed us a little guard during the night , 
and we employed acentinel with akind of halbert for 
three pence a day. The fair or mart , we found , had 
been over for fome time ; however, there remained 
in the river four junks and two Japan ships , the mer- 
chants of the latter being on shore. In the firft place, 
our old pilot brought us acquainted with the million* 
ary Roman priefts, who were converting the people 
to Chriftianity : two of them were referved, rigid , 4 

and auftere , applying themfelves to the work they 
came about with great earneftnefs *, but the third , 
who was a Frenchman, called father Simon, was of a 
freer con verfation, not feeminglyfoferiousand grave, 
yet no worfe Chriftian than the other two , one of 
whom was a Portuguefe , and the other a Geneofe. 

Father Simon.it feems, was appointed to go to Pekin, 
the royal feat of the Emperor of the Chinefe •, and ho 
only waited for another prieft, who was ordered from 
Macao to accompany him. We never met together j 
but he was prompting me to keep him company in 
that journey : Sir , faid he , 1 will shew you the glo- 
rious things of this mighty empire, and a city, the ci- 
ty of Pekin, far exceeding London or Paris, put them 
both together. One day in particular , being at din* 
ner with him, I shewed fome inclination to go-, which 
made him prefs the more upon me and my partner , 
to gain our perfett confent. But , father Simon , faid 
my partner , what fatisfaHion can you have in our com- 
pany , whom you ejietm as heretics , and confcquently oh. 

Q 




Digitized by Google 


w 


361 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

je3s not worthy your regard ? Oh ! faid he , you may 
be as good Catholics in time as thofe I hope to con- 
vert to our religion. And fo , faid 1, we shall hare 
you preaching to us all the way , inflcad of pleading us 
with a defeription of the country. Sir , faid he , how- 
ever our religion may be yilified by fome people , it 
is very certain it neither diverts us of good manners 
or Chriftian charity •, and as we are gentlemen , as 
fuch we may converfe together, without making one 
another uneafy. 

But we shall leave him a while , to conrtder our 
ship and the merchandise which we had to difpofeof. 
There was but very little trade in the place where we 
were } and I was once refolved to venture to fail to 
the river Kilara , and fo to the city of Nanquin : but 
Providence ordered it otherwife , by our old pilot’s 
bringing a Japan merchant to us , to fee what goods 
we had. He immediately bought our opium, for 
which he gave us a very good price in gold by weight, 
fome wedges of which were about ten or eleven oun- 
ces. It came into my head , that perhaps he might 
buy the ship too ; and I .ordered his interpreter to 
propofe it to him. He faid nothing then , but shrunk 
up his shoulders •, yet in a few days after he came ac- 
companied by a miflionary prieft, who was his inter- 
preter , with this propofal , That as he had bought a 
great quantity of our goods , he had not money enough 
to purchafe our ship ; but iff pleafed , he would hire her , 
with all my men , to go to Japan , and from thence with 
another loading to the Philippine iflands , the freight of 
both which he would very willingly pay to ut before j and 



r 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 36$ 

at their return to Japan, would buy the ship. Upon 
this we asked the captain and his men , if they were 
willing to go to Japan ; to which they unanimoufly 
agreed. While this was in agitation , the young man 
my nephew lefc to attend me , told me , That as I did 
not care to accept this profpecl of advantage , he would 
manage it for me as I pleafed , and render me a faith- 
ful account of his fuccefs , which should be wholly mine . 
Indeed I was very unwilling to part with him ; but 
confidering it might be for the young man’s good , I 
difcourfed my partner about it , who , of his own ge- 
nerolity , gave him his share of the veffel , fo that I 
could do no otherwise than give him mine; but, how- 
ever, we let him have but the property of half of it 
and preferved a power , that when we met in England, 
if he had obtained fuccefs , he should account to us 
for one half of the profits of the ship’s freight , and 
the other should be his own. Thus having taken a 
writing under his hand , away he failed to Japan , 
where the merchant dealt very honeftly by him, got 
him a licence to come on shore , fent him loaded to 
• the Philippines with a Japanefe fupercargo , from 
whence he came back again loaded with European 
goods, cloves, and other fpiceries. By this voyage he 
cleared a confiderable fum of money, which determi- 
ned him not to fell his ship , but to trade on his own 
account : fo he returned to the Manillas, where, get- 
ting acquaintance , he made his ship free , was hired 
by the governor privately to go to Acapulco in Ame- 
rica, on the Mexican coaft, with a licence to travel to 
the great city of Mexico. This traffic turned out 

Qa 


Digitized by Google | 



3*>4 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

greatly to account , and my friend finding means to 
get to Jamaica , returned nine years after exceeding 
rich into England. 

In parting with the ship, it comes in courfe to con- 
fider of thofe men who had faved our lives when in 
the river of Cambodia : and though, by the way, they 
were a couple of rogues, who thought to turn pirates 
.themfelves , yet we paid them what they had before 
demanded, and gave each of them a fmall fum of mo- 
ney , making the Englishman a gunner , and the 
Dutchman a boatfwain , with which they were very 
well contented. 

"We were now above 1000 leagues farther from 
home, than when at Bengal. All the comfort we could 
expett was , that there being another fair to be kept 
in a month’s time , we might not only purchafe all 
forts of that country’s manufa&ures, but very poflibly 
find fome Chinefe junks, or veffels from Tonquin, to 
be fold , which would carry us and our goods where- 
foeverwe pleafed. Upon thefe hopes, we refolved to 
continue •, and, to divert ourfelves , we took feveral 
little journies in the country. About ten days after 
we parted with our ship , we travelled to fee the city 
of Nanquin. This city lies in latitude 30 deg. north 
of the line ; it is regularly built , and the ftreets are 
exadlly ftraight, and crofs one another in direft lines, 
which fets it out to the greateft advantage. At our 
return, we found the prieft was come from Macao that 
was to accompany father Simon to Pekin. That fa- 
ther earneftly folicited me to accompany him , and I 
referred him to my partner. In short, we both agreed 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3 6f 

and prepared accordingly, and we were fo lucky as to 
have liberty to travel among the retinue of one of 
their Mandarins , who is a principal magifirate , and 
much reverenced by the people. 

"We were five and twenty days travelling through 
this miferable country, infinitely populous, but as in- 
differently cultivated; and yet their pride is infinitely 
greater than their poverty, infomuchthat the priefts 
themfelves derided them. As we paffed by the houfe 
of one of their country gentlemen, two leagues off of 
Nanquin , we had the honour , forfooth , to ride with 
the Chinefe fquire about two miles. Never was Don 
Quixote fo exa&ly imitated! Never fucha compound 
of pomp and poverty feen before ! 

His habit , made of callico , was dirty , greafy , and 
very proper for a Merry Andrew or Scaramouch, with 
all its tawdry trappings , as hanging fleeves , taffels , 
&c. though torn and rent in almoft every. part : his 
vtft underneath it was nolefs dirty, but more greafy, 
refembling the mod exquifite floven, or greafy but- 
cher. His horfe ( worfe than Rofinante, or the famous 
Reed of doughty Hudibras) was a poor ftarved , de- 
crepit thing, that would not fell for thirty shillings 
in England : and yet this piece of worshipful pomp 
was attended with tenor twelve flaves, who guarded 
their mafter to his country-feat. We Hopped at a 
little village for refreshment ; and when we came by 
the country-feat of this great man, we found him fit- 
ting under a tree before his door, eating a mefs of 
boiled rice, with a great piece of garlic in the middle, 
and a bag filled with green pepper by him , and ano- 

Qs 


Digitized by Google 


566 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ther plant like ginger, together with a piece of lean 
mutton in it : this was his ‘Worship’s repaft ; but 
pray obferve the ftate of the fool! two women Haves 
brought him his food , which being laid before him , 
two others appeared to perform their refpe&ive offi- 
ces ; one fed him with a fpoon , while the other fcra- 
ped off what fell upon his beard and taffety veft, and 
gave it to a particular favourite to eat. And thus we 
left the wretch pleafed with the conceit of our admi- 
ring his magnificence, which rather merited our fcorn 
and detefiation. 

At length we arrived at the great city of Pekin, ac- 
companied by two fervants , and the old Portuguefe 
pilot , whofe changes we bore , and who ferved us as 
an interpreter by the way. We had fcarce been a 
week at Pekin , but he comes laughing to us , Ah ! 
Seignior Inglife , laid he , me fometing tell you make 
your heart glad , but make me forry ; for you bring me 
here 2j days journey , and now you leave me go back 
alone : and which way shall I make my port after , 
without de ship , without de horfe , without pecune ? 
fo he called money in his broken Latin. He then in- 
formed me, that there was a great caravan of Mufco- 
viteandPolishmerchantsinthecity , whowerepre- 
paring to fet out for Mufcovy by land within fix 
weeks •, and, that he was certain we would take this 
opportunity, and confequently thathe muft go home 
by himfelf. Indeed this news infinitely furprifed and 
pleafed me. Are you certain of this ? faid I. Yes , 
Sir , faid he , me fure it's true. And fohe told me , 
that haying met an old acquaintance of his t an Arme- 


Digitized byXJoogle* 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 367 

nian , in the ftreet , who was among them , and who 
.had come from Aftracan , with a defifn to go to Ton- 
quin , but for certain reafons having altered his refo- 
lution , he was now refolved to go with the caravan , 
and to return by the river Wolga to Aftracan. Well , 
Seignior, faid I, don't be difeontented about your re- 
turning alone-, and, if by this means I can find apaffage 
to England, it will be your own fault if you return to 
Macao at all. And fo confulting with my partner , 
what was beft to be done , he referred it to me as I 
pleafed , having our affairs fo well fettled at Bengal , 
that,ifwe could convert the good voyage we had made 
inChina filks, wrought or raw, he would be fatisfied to 
go to England, andfo return to Bengal in the Compa- 
ny’s ships. Thus refolved, we agreed , that , if our pi- 
lot would go with us, we would bear his charges either 
to Mufcow or England •, and to give him in a prefent 
the fum of 170 pounds Sterling. Hereupon we cal- 
led him in, and told him the caufe of his complaint 
should be removed , if he would accompany us with 
the caravan •, and , therefore, we defired to know his 
mind. At this he shook his head , Great long jour- 
ney , faid he , me no pecune , carry me to Mufcow , or 
keep me there. But we foon put him out of that 
concern , by making him fenfible of what we Would 
give him here to lay out to the beft advantage, and* 
as for his charges , we would fet him fafe on shore , 
God willing , either in Mufcovy , or England , as he 
pleafed, at our own charge, except the carriage of his 
goods. At this propofal , he was like a man tranfport- 
ed , telling us , he would go with us all the world 

Q 4 


1 


368 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

over; and we made preparations for our journey , 
but it was near four months before all the merchants 
were ready. 

In the mean time , my partner and the pilot went 
exprefs to the port where we firft put in, to difpofeof 
.what goods had been left there, while I accompanied 
a Chinefe merchant, who was going toNanquin,and 
there bought 29 pieces of damask , with about 300 
more of other fine filks ; and , by the time my partner 
returned to Pekin, 1 had them all carried thither : our 
cargo in filks amounted to 4500 1 . Sterling, which, 
together with tea, fine calicoes, nutmegs, and cloves, 
loaded 18 camels for our share, befides what we rode 
upon , with two or three fpare horfes, and two more 
loaden with provifions : the company now was very 
great , making about 400 horfe , and above 120 men , 
well armed and provided."We were offeveral nations, 
among whom were five Scots merchants inhabiting 
in Mufcow , and well experienced in trade. 

Ve fet out from Pekin the beginning of February 
our ftyle ; and in two days more , we palled through 
the gate of the great China wall , which was eredled 
as a fortification againft the Tartars , being ico Eng- 
lish miles long. We then entered a country not near 
fo populous , chiefly under the power of plundering 

Tartars, feveral companies of whom we perceived rid- 
ing on poor ftarved horfes , contemptible as themfel- 
ves, without order or difcipline. One time our leader 
for the day gave us leave to go a-hunting. But what do 
you think we hunted ? only a parcel of sheep, which 
indeed exceeded any in the world for wildnefs and 


r 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 369 

fwiftnefs •, but while we were purfuing this game , it 
was our chance to meet with about forty Tartars, who 
no fooner perceived us, but one of them blew a horn, 
at the found of which there foon appeared a troop of 
forty or fifty more , at about a mile’s diftance. Here- 
upon , one of the Scots merchants ( who knew their 
ways) ordered us to advance towards them,andattack 
them immediately. As we advanced, they let fly a 
volley of arrows , which happily fell a little short of 
us : this made us halt a little , to return the compli- 
ment with bullets ; and then being led up by the bold 
Scot, we fired our piftols in their faces , and drew 
out our fwords ; but there was no occafion ; for they 
flew like timorous sheep , and only three of them 
remained , beckoning to the reft to come back. But 
our brave commander gallops up to them by himfelf , 
shot one dead , knocks another off his horfe , while 
the third ran away : and thus ended our battle with 
the Tartars. , x 

"We travelled a month more through the Emperor 
of China’s dominions ; and at length coming to one of 
their towns about a day and a half’s journey from the 
city of Naum, I wanted to buy a camel. The perfon I 
fpoke to would have brought me one, but, like a fool, 
I muft go along with him , about two miles from the 
village. My old pilot and I walked on foot, forfooth. 
for fome variety.when coming to the place where the 
camels were kept as in a pgrk guarded by Chinefefol- 
diers , we there agreed and bought one , which the 
Chinefe man that came with me led along the road. 
But we had not gone far, before we wereattackedby 

Q 5 


370 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

five Tartars , mounted on horfeback , two of whom 
feized the man , took the camel from him , and rode 
away, while the other three approached us , the fir{^ 
of whom fuddenly feized me as I was drawing my 
fword , the fecond knocked me down ; but my old 
trufty Portuguefe , taking a piftol out of his pocket , 
Which I knew nothing of , and coming up to the fel- 
low that flruck me , he with one hand pulled him off 
his horfe, and then shot him dead upon the fpor, then 
taking his fcymitar,he {truck at the man that ftopt us, 
but miffing him , cut off one of his horfe’s ears , the 
pain of which made him throw his rider to the ground. 
The poor Chinefe, who had led the camel , feeing the 
Tartar down , runs to him, and feizingupon his pole* 
axe , wrenched it from his hands , and knocked his 
brains out. But there was another Tartar to deal with 
who feeming neither inclined to fight nor fly , and 
my old man having begun to charge his piftol , the 
very fight of it flruck fuch a terror into the wretch , 
that away hefcoured, leaving my old pilot, rather my 
champion and defender , an abfolute vittory. 

By this timebeing awakened from my trance, I be- 
gan to open my eyes, wondering where 1 was.having 
quite forgot all that paffed •, but my fenfes returning , 
and feeling a great pain in my head , and feeing the 
blood was running over my clothes, I inftantly jump- 
ed upon my feet, and grafped my fword in my hand , 
with a refolution to take revenge-, but no enemies now 
remained , except the dead Tartar , with his horfe 
Handing by him. The old man feeing me recovered. 
Whom he thought {lain, ran towards me , and embra- 


' OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 371 

ced me with the greateft rendernefs, at the fame time 
examining into my wound, which was far frombeing 
mortal -, when we returned to the village, the man de- 
manded payment for his camel, which I refufing, we 
brought the caufe before a Chinefe judge, who a&ed 
with great impartiality : Having heard both fides, he 
asked the Chinefe man that went with me, whofefer. 
vant he was ? Sir , faid he , I am nobody’s , but went , 
with the dranger at his requeft : why then , faid the 
judge, you were the dranger’s fervant for the time, and 
the camel being delivered to hisfervant,itisthefame 
as though delivered to himfelf , and accordingly he 
tnufl pay for it. Indeed , the cafe was fo Fairly dated , 
that I had nothing to objeft to it ; fo, having paid for 
that I was robbed of, I fent for apother , but did not 
go myfelf to fetch it, as I had enough of that fport be- 
fore. 

The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinefe em- 
pire, fo fortified , as fome will tell you , that millions 
of Tartars cannot batter down their walls-, by which 
certainly one might think one of our cannons would 
do more execution than all their legions. 

When we were within a day’s match of that city , 
we had information that the governor had fent mef- 
fengers to every part of the road , to inform the tra- 
vellers and caravans to halt , till a guard was fent to 
protect them from the numerous bodies ofTattars that 
lately appeared about the city. This news put us in- 
to great condernation but , obeying the orders , we 
flopt -, and , two days after, there came two hundred 
foldiers from a garrifon of the Chinefe, and three 

Q6 


Digitized by Google 



r» 

i 


372 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

» 1 

hundred more from Naum ; thus guarded both in 
the front and rear , with our own men on the flanks, 
we boldly advanced, thinking we were able to com- 
bat with ten thoufand Mogul Tartars , if they ap- 
peared. 

Early next morning , in our march from a little 
well fituated town called Changu, after having paffed 
a river , and entered upon a defert of about 15 or 16 
miles over , we loon beheld , by a cloud of duft that 
was raifed , that the enemy was approaching. This 
much difpirited the Chinefe. My old pilot t6ok no- 
tice of it , and called out, Seignior Inglefe, thofe fel- 
lows muft be encouraged , or they will ruin us all : 
and I am afraid , if the Tartars attack us , they will all 
run away. Why , Seignior, faid I , what shall be done 
in this cafe ? Done, fays he, why, let fifty of our men 
advance , and flank them on each wing. I know the 
fellows will fight well enough in company. We ac- 
cordingly took his advice , and marched , fifty to the 
right wing , and the fame number to the left , and 
with the reft made a line of referve , leaving the laft 
two hundred men to guard the camels , or to afiift us 
as occafion required. 

Thus prepared a party of the enemy came forward, 
viewing our pofture,andtraverfing the ground on the 
front of our line. Hereupon, we ordered the two 
wings to move on , and give them a falute with their 
shot ; which accordingly was done. This put a flop 

to their proceedings 1 , for immediately wheeling off to 

their left , they all marched away , and we faw no 
snore of them. They had undoubtedly given an a«- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 37J 

count to their companions of what reception they 
might expedf , which made them fo eafily give over 
their entreprife. 

When we came to the city of Naum , we returned 
the governor hearty thanks, and difperfed a hundred 
crowns among the foidiers that guarded us. We reft- 
ed there one day , and then proceeded on our travels, 
palling feveral great rivers and deferts , and on the 
13 th of April , we came to the frontiers of Mufcovy, 
the firft town of which was called Argun. 

This happy occafion, as I thought, of coming in- 
to a Chriftian country , made me congratulate the 
Scots merchant upon it. He fmiled at that, telling 
me not to rejoice too foon •, for , faid he , except the 
Ruilian foidiers in garrifon , and a few inhabitants of 
the cities upon the road, all the reft of this country , 
for above a thoufand miles , is inhabited by the molt 
ignorant and barbarous Pagans. 

- We advanced from the river Arguna, by moderate 
journeys, and found convenient garrifons on the road, 
filled with Chriftian foidiers, for the fecurity of com- 
merce, and for the convenient lodgings of travellers ; 
but the inhabitants of the country were mere Pagans 
worshipping the fun , moon , and ftars. We particu- 
larly obferved this idolatry near the river Arguna, at 
a city inhabited by Tartars and Ruftians, called Neri- 
finkey. Being curious to fee their way of living » 
while the caravan continued to reft themfelvesin that 
city , I went to one of their villages, where there was 
to be one of their folemn facrifices. There 1 beheld , 
upon the flump of an old tree, an idol of wood, mora 


Digitized by Google 


374 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
ugly than the representation of the clevil himfelfrits 
hcadrefembledno living creature ; its ears were as 
big and as high as goats horns , a crooked nofe , four 
cornered mouth , and horrible teeth: it was clothed 
in sheeps skins , had a great Tartar bonnet , with two 
horns growing through it , and was eight feet high, 
without feet , legs, or proportion. Before this idol 
therelay i6or 17 people,whobrought their offerings, 
and were making their prayers , while at a diftance 
flood three men , and one bullock , as vidfims to this 
Ugly monfter. 

Such flupendous facrilege as this , in robbing the 
true God of his honour , filled me with the greateft 
aftonishment and reflection •, which foon turning to 
rage and fury , I rode up to the image , and cut in 
pieces the bonnet that was upon his head with my 
fword , fo that it hung down by one of the horns , 
while one of my men that was with me , pulled at it 
by his sheep’s skin garment. Immediately an hideous 
howling and outcry ran through the village,and two 
or three hundred people coming about our ears, w'e 
were obliged to fly for it. 

But I hadnot done with the monfter •, for the ca- 
ravan being to reft three nights in the town , I told 
the Scot merchant what I had feen , and that I was 
refolvedto take four or five men well armed with roe, 
in order to deftroy the idol, and shew the people how 
little reafon they had to truft in a God who could not 
fave himfelf. At firft he laughed at me , reprefenting 
the danger of it , and when it was deftroyed , what 
time had wc to preach to them better things, whole 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 37* 

zeal and ignorance was in the higheft degree, and 
both unparallelled? thatif I should be taken by them, 
1 should be ferved as a poor ruffian , who contemned 
their worship ; that is, to be Itripped naked, and tied 
to the top of the idol , there shot at with arrows till 
my body was full of them , and then burnt as a ficri- 
fice to the monfter : but , Sir , faid he , fince your 
zeal carries you fo far, rather than you should be alone 
I will accompany you , and bring a ftout fellow equal 
to yourfelf , if you will , to aflift you in this defign : 
and accordingly he brought one captain Richardfon, 
who, hearing the ftory , readily confented ; but my 
partner declined it, being altogether out of his way: 
andfo we three, and my man-fervant,refolved to ex- 
ecute this exploit about midnight •, but, upon fecond 
thoughts, we deferred it to the next night, by reafon 
-that the caravan being to go from thence next morn- 
ing, we should be out of the governor’s power. The 
better to effe&uate my defign , I procured a Tartar’s 
sheepskin robe , a bonnet, with bow and arrows.and 
every one of us got the like habits. The firft night 
we fpent in mixing combuftible matter with aqua vi- 
ta, gun powder, &c. having a good quantity of tar in 
a little pot : next night we came up to the idol about 
eleven o’clock , the moon being up. We found none 
guarding it •, but we perceived a light in the houfe , 
where we had feenthepriefts before. One of our men 
was for firing the hut, another forkilling the people, 
and a third for making them prifoners, while the idol 
was deftroyed. We agreed to the latter : fo knock- 
ing at the door, we feized the full that opened it, and 


Digitized by GoogI 


576 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

flopping his mouth , and tying his' feet , v/e left him. 
We ferved the other two in the like manner-, and then 
the Scots merchant fet fire to the eompofirion, which 
frightened them fo much , that we brought them all 
away prisoners to their wooden god. There we fell 
to work Wtth him , daubing him all over with tar 
mixed with tallow and brimftone , flopping his eyes, 
ears , and mouth full of gun powder , with a great 
piece of wild fire in his bonnet,and environed it with 
dry forage. All this being done , we unloofed and 
ungagged the prisoners, and fet the idol on fire, which 
the gunpowder blowing up , the shape of it was de- 
formed, rent, andfplit, which the forage utterly con- 
fumed, for we ftaid to fee its deftruftion, left the igno- 
rant idolatrous people should have thrown themfel- 
ves in to the flame. And thus we came away undifcove- 
red,inthe morning appearing as bufy among our fel- 
low-travellers , as nobody could have fufpefted any 
other but that we had been in our beds all night. 

Nextmorning wefet out, and had gone but a fmall 
diftance from the city, when there came a multitude 
of the people of the country to the gates of the city, 
demanding fatisfadlion of the Ruffian governor for in- 
flating their priefts, and burning their great Cham Chi- 
Thaungu , who dwelt in the fun, and no mortal would 
violate his image, but fome Chriftian mifcreants; and 
being already no lefs than thirty thoufand ftrong,they 
announced war againft him andall his Chriftians. 

The governor affured them he was ignorant of the 
matter, and that none of his garrifonhad been abroad*, 
that indeed there was a caravan that went away that 



* OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. . 377 

morning, and that he would fend after them to en- 
quire into it; and whoever were the offenders should 
be delivered into their hands. This fatisfied them for 
theprefent , but the governor fent to inform us, that 
if any of us had done it, we should make all the hafte 
away poflible , while he kept them in play as long as 
he could. Upon this we marched two days and two 
nights , flopping but very little, till at laft we arrived 
at a village called Plothus , and hafled to Jarawena, 
another of the Czar’s colonies. On the third day, 
.having entered the defert , and paffed the lake called 
Shaks Ofer, we beheld a numerous body of horfe on 
the other fide of it to the north, who fuppofed we had 
paffed on that fide of the lake; but having either found 
thpir miflake,or being certainly informed of the way 
we took , they came upon us towards the dusk of the 
evening , juft as we had pitched our camp between 
two little but very thick woods , with a little river 
running before our front , and fome felled trees with 
which we covered our rear ; a precaution we always 
took, and which we had juft finished , when the ene- 
my came up. They did not fall on us immediately , 
but fent three meflengers , demanding the men who 
had infulted their priefts , and burnt their god Cham 
Chi Thaungu, that they might be burnt with fire ,that 
if this was complied with, they would peaceably de- 
part ; but if not, they would deftroy one andail ofus.- 
Our men flared at one another on receipt of this mef* 
fage , but Nobody was the word , as indeed nobody 
knew it , but he who did it. Upon which the leader 
Pf the caravan returned for anfwer , That they were 


378 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

peaceable merchants , who meddle with none of 
their priefts and gods •, and therefore defired them 
not to difturb us, and put us to the necellity of defend- 
ing ourfelves. But fo far was this from fatisfyingthem, 
that the next morning, coming to our right, they let 
fly a volley of arrows among us , which happily did 
not hurt any , becaufe we sheltered ourfelves behind 
©ur baggage. We expe&ed however to come to a 
clofer engagement; but were happily faved by a cun- 
ning fellow , a Coffack ,who obtaining leave of the 
leader to go out , mounts his horfe, rides dire&ly from 
©ur rear, and taking a circuit, comes up to the Tartars, 
as though he had been fent exprefs , and tells them a 
formalfiory, that the wretches whohad burnt theCAam* 
Chi-Thaungu , were gone to Siheilka , with a refolu- 
tion to burn the god Shal-lfar, belonging to the Ton- 
guefes. Upon which , believing this cunning Tartar 
who was fervant to our Mufcovites, away they drove 
to Shiheilka , and in lefs than three minutes were out 
©f our fight , nor did we ever hear of them more. 

When we came to the city of Jarawena , we relied 
five days, and then entered into a frightful defert 
which held us twenty three days march,infefted with 
feveral fmall companies of robbers, or Mogul Tartars 
who never had the courage to attack us. After we 
had palled over this defert, we found feveral garrifons 
to defend the caravans from the violence of the Tar- 
tars. In particular,the Governor of Adinskoy offered 
us a guard of fifty men to the nextftation , if we ap- 
prehended any danger. The people here retained 
the fame paganifm and barbarity, only they were not 




OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 379 

fo dangerous , being conquered by the Mufcovites. 
The clothing , both of men and women , is of the 
skins of beads , living under the ground in vaults and 
caves , which have a communication with one ano- 
ther.They have idols almod in every family;befides, 
they adore the fun and dars, water and fnow, and the 
lead uncommon thing that happens in the elements , 
alarms them as much as thunder and lightning does 
the unbelieving Jews. 

Nothingremarkable occurred in our march through 
this country. "When we had got through the defert , 
after two days farther travel, we came to Jenezoy,a 
Mufcovite city , on the great river fo called , which, 
we were told , parted Europe from Ada. The inhabi- 
tants here were very little better, though intermixed 
with the Mufcovites-, but the wonder will ceafe, when 
I inform my reader of what was obferved to me , 
that the Czar rather converts the Tartars withfoldiers 
than clergymen , and is more proud to make them 
faithful fubjefts, than good Chridians. 

From this city to the river Oby, we travelled over 
a pleafant,fruitful,but very uncultivated country, for 
want of good management and people, and thofe few 
are modly Pagans. This is the place where the Muf- 
covite criminals are banished to , if they are not put 
to death. The next city we came to , was the capi- 
tal city of Siberia, calledTobolsky, when, having been 
almod feven months on our journey, and winter draw 
ing on apace , my partner and I confulted about our 
particular affairs , in what manner we should difpofe 
ofourfelves. We had been told of Hedges and reia 


Digitized by Googlf 


380 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

deer to carry us over the fnow in the winter feafon, 
the fnow being frozen fo hard, that thefledges can run 
upon the furface without any danger of going down. 
As I was bound to England , I now behoved either to 
go with the caravan to Jeroflaw , from thence weft 
to Narva , and the gulf of Finland, and fo by land or 
fea to Denmark; or elfe I muft leave the caravan at a 
little town on the Dwina, and foto Archangel, where 
I was certain of shipping either to England, Holland, 
or Hamburgh. One night I happened to get into the 
company of an illuftrious but banishedprince,whofe 
company and virtues were fuch as made me propofe to 
him a method how he might obtain his liberty. My 
dear friend , faid he, as I am here happily free from 
my miferable greatnefs , with all its attendants of pride , 
ambition , avarice , and luxury , if I should efcape from 
/this place , thofe pernicious feeds may again revive , to 
my la fling dif quietude ; therefore let me remain in a 
blejfed confinement, for I am but flesh , a mere man , 
with paffions and affections as fuch i 0 be not my friend 
and tempter too ! Struck dumb with furprife , I ftood 
lilenta while ; nor was he inlefs diforder , by which 
perceiving he wanted to give vent to his mind , I de- 
fired him to confider of it, and fo withdrew. But, 
about twohours after, he came to my apartment: Dear 
friend , faid he , though I cannot cortf ent to accompany 
you , I shall have this fatisf action in parting , that 
you leave me an honefi man fill ; but as a ttfiimony 
of my affection to you , be pleafed to accept this prefent 
of fables. 

In return for his compliment , I fent my fervant 





OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3S1 

next morning to his Lordship, with admail prefent of 
tea, two pieces of China damask, and four little wed. 
ges of gold ; but he only accepted the tea.one piece 
of damask , and a piece of gold , for the curiofity of 
the Japan ftamp that was upon it. Not long after, 
he fent for me , and told me , That what he had re- 
filled himfelf , he hoped , upon his account , I would 
grant to another , whom he should name : In short , 
it was his only fon , who was about 100 miles diftance 
from him , on the other fide of the Oby , whom he 
faid he would fend for , if I gave my confent. This I 
foon complied with •, upon whichhe fent his fervants 
next day for his fon , who returned in twenty days 
time,bringingfevenhorfes loaded with valuable furs. 

At night, the young lord was conduced incognito into 
our apartment , where js father prefented him to me. j hi 
We then concerted the beft ways for travelling, and 
after having bought a confiderable quantity of fables, 
black fox-skins , fine ermines , &c. (which I fold at 
Archangel at a good price) , we fet out from this city 
the beginning of June , making a fmall caravan, being 
about thirty two horfes and camels, of whichl repre- 
fented the head. My young lord had with him a ve- 
ry faithful Siberian fervant, well acquainted with the 
roads : we shunned the principal towns and cities, as 
Tumen,Soli-Kamoiskoi, and feveral others , by rea- 
fon of their ftrittnefs in examining travellers,left any 
of the banished perfons of diftinftion should efcape. 
Having pafied the river Kama, we came to a city on 
the European fide, called Soloy Kamoskoi where we 
found the people moftly Ragans , as before. We then 


Digitized by Google 



58 i LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

paffed a defart of about two hundred miles over, but 
in other places , it is near feven hundred. In pafling 
this wild place, we were befet by a troop of men on 
horfeback , and about five and forty men armed with 
bows and arrows. At firft they looked earneftly on 
us,andthen placed themfelves in our way. We were 
above fixteen men , and drew up a little line before 
our camels. My young lord fent out his Siberian fer- 
▼ant.to know who they wer e;but, when he approach- 
ed them.he neither knew a word they faid, nor would 
they admit him to come near them at his peril , but 
prepared to shoot him. At his return , he told us he 
believed them to be Calmuck Tartars ; and that he 
thought there were more of them upon the defart. 
This was but a fmall comfort to us; yet feeing a little 
grove about a quarter of a mile's difiance, we moved 
to it , by the old Portuguefe pilot’s advice, without 
meeting with any oppofition. Here we found a mar- 
shy piece of ground , and a fpring of water running 
into a little brook on one fide, which joined another 
like it alittle farther off , and thefe two formed the 
head of the river called Writska. As foon as we ar- 
rived, we went to work, cutting down greatarms off 
the trees , and laying them hanging (not quite off) 
from one tree to another. In this fituation we waited 
the motions of the enemy , without perceiving any 
advancement they made toward us. About two hours 
before night , being joined by fome others , in all a- 
bout fourfcore horfe , among whom we fancied were 
fome women, they came upon us with great fury. Ve 
fired without ball, calling to them , in the Ruffian 


:oogi 




OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 383 

tongue, to know their bufinefs : but they , either not 
knowing , or Teeming not to underftand us, came di- 
rectly to the wood-lide,notconfidering that we were 
fo fortified , as that they could not break in. Our old 
pilot,thePortuguefe .proved both our captain and en- 
gineer, and defired us not to fire , till they came with- 
in piftol shot-, and when he gave the word of command 
then to take the furefi aim : but he did not bid us 
give fire, till they were within two pikes length of us, 
and then we killed fourceen of them .wounded feve- 
ral, as alfo their horfes, having every one of us load- 
ed ourpieces with two or three bullets at leaft. So 
much were they furprifed at our undauntednefs, that 
they retired about an hundred roods from us. In the 
mean while, we loaded our pieces again, and Tallying 
out.fecured four or five of their horfes, whofe riders 
we found were killed, and perceived them to be Tar- 
tars. About an hour after , they made another at- 
tempt, to fee where they might break in -,but finding 
us ready to receive them , they retired. 

All that night we wrought hard, in ftrengthening 
out fituation, and barricading the entrances into the 
woods-, but, when day-light came, we had a very un* 
welcome difcoveryifor,the enemy being encouraged 
by their afiiftance, had fet up eleven or twelve tents 
in form of a camp, about three quarters ofa mile from 
us. I muft confefs , I was never more concerned in 
my life,giving myfelf and all that I had over for loft. 
And my partner declared.that as the lofs of his goods 
would be his ruin , before they should be taken from 
him , he would fight to the laft drop of his blood. 


1 


3*4 r LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

As we could not pretend to force our way , we had 
recourfe to a ftratagem , we kindled a large fire , 
which burnt all night ; and no fooner was it dark,but 
we purfued our journey towards the pole , or north 
ftar , and travelling all night , by fix o’clock in the 
morning we came to a Ruffian village , called Kertza, 
and from ihence came to a large town namedOzonoy s, 
where we heard that feveral troops of Calmuck Tar- 
tars had been abroad upon the defart, but that we were 
paft all danger. In five days after we came to Veu* 
flima, upon the river Witzedgajfrom thence we came 
to Lawrenskoy, on the third of July, where, provid- 
ing ourfelves with two luggage boats , and a conve- 
nient bark, we embarked thefeventh, and arrived at 
Archangel the eighteenth, after a year , five months, 
and three days journey , including the eight months 
and odd days at Tobolski. "We came from Archan- 
gel the twentieth of Auguft in the fame year, and ar- 
rived at Hamburgh the thirtieth of September. Here 
my partner and I made averygood faleof our goods, 
both thofe of China and Siberia •, when dividing our 
effefts , my share came to 3474 /, 17 s. 3 d. after all 
the Ioffes we had fuftained, and charges we had beea 
at. Here the young lord took his leave of me , in 
order to go to the court of Vienna , not only to feek 
prote&ion.but to correfpond with his father’s friends. 
After we had ftaid four months in Hamburgh,! went 
from thence over land to the Hague, where embark- 
ing in the packet, I arrived in London the tenth ofJa- 
nuary 1705, after tenyears and nine months abfennce 
from England. 

Robinfon 


roost 


gle 


Digitiz 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 385 


Robinfon Crufoe’s Vijion of the Angelic World. 
Chap. I. Of SO LIT UD E. 

However folitude is looked upon as a reftraint to 
the pleafures of the world , in company and con- 
vention, yet it is a happy Rate of exemption from a 
fea of trouble, an inundation of vanity and vexation, 
ofconfufion and difappointment. While we enjoy our- 
felves, neither the joy nor forrow of other menaffedl: 
us: we are then at liberty .with the voice of our foul, 
to fpeak to God. By this we shun fuch frequent tri- 
vial difcourfe, as even becomes an obftruftion to vir- 
tue : and how often do we find , that we had reafoa 
to wish we hadnot been in company, or faid nothing 
when we were there ? for either we offend God by , 
the impiety ofour difcourfe, orlayourfelvesopento 
theviolence of defigning people by our unguarded ex> 
pr eflions ; and frequently feel the coldnefs and treach* 
ery of pretended friends , when once involved in 
trouble and affliftionj of fuch unfaithful intimates (I 
should fay enemies ) who rather by falfe inuendoes 
would accumulate miferies upon us , than honeftly af- 
fift us when fuffering under the hard hand of adver- 
fity. But inaftate of folitude, when our tongues can- 
not beheard, exceptby the great Majefty of Heaven, 
how happy are we, in the bleffed enjoyment of con- 
verfing with our Maker ! It is then we make him our 
friend, which fets us above the envy and contempt of 
wicked men. When a man converfes withhimfelf , 

R 


586 life and adventures. 

he is fure that he does not converfe with an enemy. 
Our retreat should be to good company , and good 
books. I mean not by folitude , that a man should 
retire into a cell , a defart ,or a monaftery : which 
would be altogether an ufelefs and unprofitable re- 
- ftraint : for as men are formed for fociety , and have 
an abfolute neceflity and dependence upon one ano- 
ther; fo there isa retirement of the foul , with which 
it converfes in heaven , even in the midft of men ; 
and indeed no man is more fit to fpeak freely , than 
he who can, without any violence to himfelf,refrain 
his tongue , or keep filence altogether. As to reli- 
gion , it is by this the foul gets acquainted with the 
hidden myfteries of the holy writings ; here she finds 
thofe flood of tears, in which good men wash them- 
felves day and night, and only makes a vifit to God, 
and his holy angels. In this converfation the trueft 
peace and raoft folid joy are to be found ; it is a con- 
tinual feaft of contentment on earth , and the means ' 
of attaining everlafting happinefs 'in heaven. 

Chap. II. Of H O NE S T Y. 

Honesty is a virtue beloved by good- men , and 
pretended to by all perfons. In this there are feveral 
degrees: to pay every man his own , is the common, 
law of honefiy ; but to do good to all mankind , is 
the chancery 'lawof honefiy : and this chancery-court 
is in every man’s breaft, where his confcience is a lord 
chancellor. Hence it is , that a mifer , though he pays 
every body their own, cannotbeanhoaefi man, when.: 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 387 

• he does not difcharge the good offices that are in- 
cumbent on a friendly , kind , and generous perfon : 
for , faith the prophet Ifaiah , chap, xxxii. ver. 7. 8. 
The injlruments of a churl are evil : he devifeth wick- 
ed devices to defiroy the poor with lying words , even 
when the needy fpeaketh right. But the liberal foul 
devifeth liberal things , and by liberal things shall he 
Jland. It is certainly hopefiy to do every thing the 
law requires; but should we throw every poor debt- 
or in prifon till he has paid the utmoft farthing, hang 
every malefaftor without mercy, e xaft the penalty of 
every bond, and the forfeiture of every indenture, 
this would be downright cruelty , and not honefty : 
and , it is contrary to that general rule , To do to ano- 
ther , that which you would have done unto you. Some - 
times neceffity makes an honeft man a knave ; and a 
rich man an honeft man,becaufe he has no occalion 
to be a knave. The trial of honefty is this : Did 
you ever want bread , and had your neighbour’s loaf 
in keeping, and would ftarve rather than eatit? 
"Were you ever arrefted , having in your cuftody ano. 
ther man’s cash , and would rather goto goal , than 
breakit? if fo , this indeedmay be reckoned honefty. 
For King Solomon tells us , That a good name is better 
than life , and is a precious ointment , and which , 
when a man has once loft , he has nothing left worth 
keeping. 

Chap. m. Of Suffering AFFLICTIONS. 

Afflictions are common to all mankind ; and,. 

Ri 


Digitized by Google 


368 LIFE AN"D ADVENTURES 

whether they proceed from Ioffes, difappointments , 
or the malice of men, they often bring their advantages 
along with them: for this shews man the vanity and 
deceitfulnefs of this life , and is an occafion of recti- 
fying our meafures , and bringing us to a more mo- 
deft opinion of ourfelves : it tells us, how neceffary 
the afliftance of divine grace is unto us, when life itfelf 
becomes a burden , and death even defireable •, but , 
when the greatcft oppreflion comes upon us, we muft 
have recourfe to patience, begging of God to give us 
that virtue •, and , the more compofed we are under 
any trouble , the more commendable is our wifdom, 
and the larger will be our recompenfe. Let the pro- 
vocation be what it will, whether from a good natu- 
red and confcientious,orwicked, perverfe.and vex- 
atious man;all this we should take as from the over- 
ruling hand of God , as a punishment for our fins. 
Many times injured innocence may be abufed by falfe 
oaths, or the power of wicked, jealous, or malicious 
men ; but we often find it , like the palm , rife the 
higher , the more it isdepreffed ; while the juftice of 
God is eminently remarkable in punishing thofe,one 
way or other, who defire to endeavour to procure the 
downfal of an innocent man : nor does God fail com- 
forting an afflicted perfon, who, with tears and prayers, 
folicits the throne of Heaven for deliverance and pro- 
tection. David fays, That his foul was full of trouble , 
and. his life drew near unto the grave. But certain- 
ly David’s afflictions made him eminently remarkable, 
as particularly when purfued by King Saul, and hunt- 
ed as a partridge over the mountains. But one thing 



\ 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 389 

which ftands by innocence , is the love of God-, for , 
were we to fuffer difgrace,nay,an ignominious death 
itfelf, -what confolation does our innocence procure 
at our lateftconflitt , our lafl moments ! 


Chap. IV. Of the immorality of converfation , 
and the vulgar errors of behaviour. 


As converfation is a great part of human happinefs, 
fo it is a pleafant fight to behold a fwect tempered 
man, who is always fit for it, to fee an air of humour 
and pleafantnefs fit ever upon his brow , and even 
fomething angelic in his very countenance: whereas, 
if we obferve a defigning man , we shall find a mark 
of involuntary fadnefs break in upon his joy , and a 
certain infurre&ion in the foul, the natural concomi- 
tant of profligate principles. 

They err very much , who think religion , or a 
ftridl morality, difcompofes the mind , and renders it 
unfit for converfation ; for , it rather infpires us to 
innocent mirth, without fuch a counterfeit joy as vi- 
cious men appear with ; and indeed wit is as confift. 
ent with religion , as religion is with good manners-, 
nor is there any thing in the limitation of virtue and 
religion that should abate the pleafures of this 
world, but,on the contrary,ratherferves to increafe 
them. 

On the other hand, many men , by their own vice 
and intemperance, difqualify themfelves for conver- 
fation. Converfation is immoral, where the difcourfe 
is indecent, iramodeft.fcandalous, flanderous, and a- 

Rl 


Digitized by Google 


390 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

bufive. Hov great is their folly , and how much do 
they expofe themfelves .when they affront their beft 
friend, even God hirafelf, who laughs at the fool 
when his fear cometh. 

The great fcandalatheiflical and immoral difcourfe 
gives to virtue, ought, methinks.tobepunishedby all 
good magiftrates : make a man once ceafe to believe 
a God , and he has nothing left to limit his foul. 
How incongruous is it to good government , that a 
man shall be punished for drunkennefs,and yet have 
liberty to affront , and even deny the Majefty of Hea- 
ven ? when if , even among men, one gives the lie to 
agentlemman in company, or perhaps fpeaks an 
affronting word, a quarrel willenfue, and a combat , 
and perhaps murder be the confequence : at the leaft 
he will profecute him at law with the utmoft viru- 
lence and oppreflion. 

The next thing to be refrained, is obfcene difcourfe. 
Which is the language only of proficients in debauch- 
ery , who never repentbut in a goal or hofpital-, and 
whofe carcafes relish no better than their difcourfe , 
till the body becomes too nafty for the foul to ftay 
any longer in it. 

Nor is falfe talking to be lefs avoided : for lying is 
the sheep’s clothing hung upon the wolfs back. It is 
the pharifee’s prayer, the whore’s bufs,the hypocrite’s 
paint, the murderer’s fmile , the thief s cloke , it is 
Joab’s embrace , and Judas’s kifs ; in a word, it is 
mankind’s darling fin , and the devil’s diftinguishing 
character. Some add lies to lies, till it not only comes 
to be improbable, but even impoflible too: others lie 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 391 

for gain , to deceive , delude, and betray : and a third 
lies for {port, or for fun. There are other liars, who 
areperfonal and malicious *, who foment differences, 
and carry tales from one houfe to another, in order to 
gratify their own envious tempers , without any 
regard or reverence to truth. 

Chap. V. Of the prefent fate of religion in the world. 

I doubt, indeed, there is much more devotion than 
•religion in the world , more adoration than fupplica- 
tion, and more hypocrifythanfincerity:and it is ve- 
ry melancholy to confider , what numbers of people 
there are furnished with the powers of reafon and gifts 
of nature, and yet abandoned to the grolfeft ignorance 
and depravity. But it would be uncharitable for us 
to imagine(as fomePapifts, abounding with too much 
ill nature , the only fcandal to religion, do) that they 
will certainly be in the Bate of damnation after this 
lifejfor how can we think it confiftent with the mer- 
cy and goodnefs of an infinite Being , to damn thofe 
creatures , when he has not furnished them with the 
light of his gofpel ? or how can fuch proud , conceit- 
ed , and cruel bigots, preferibe rules to the juftice 
and mercy of God? 

"We are told by fome people , that the great image 
which King Nebuchadnezzer fet up to be adored by 
his people , held the reprefentation of the fun in its 
right hand , as the principal objeft of adoration. But 
to wave this difeourfe of Heathens , how many felf- 
contr^tting principles are there held among Chri- ^ cU 

R4 


Digitized by Google 


39» LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Rians ? and how do we doom one another to the de- 
vil while all profefs to worship the fame Deity , and 
to expeft the fame falvation? 

When I was at Portugal , there was held at that 
time the court of jufticeoftheinquifition.Allthe cri- 
minals were carri ed in proceflion to the great church, 
where eight of them were habited in gowns and caps 
of canvafs .whereon the torments of hell were difplay- 
ed , and they were condemned and burnt for crimes 
againft the catholic faith and blefled Virgin. 

I amforry to make any reflexion upon Chriftians , 
iur, indeed , in Italy the Roman religion feems the 
rooft cruel and mercenary upon earth ; and a very 
judicious perfon , who travelled through Italy from 
Turkey , tells us , « That there is only the face and 
«« outward pomp of religion there ; that the church 
»* protects murderers and affaffins , and then delivers 
»» the civil magiftrates over to Satan for doing ju- 
st ftice •, interdicts whole kingdoms, and shuts up the 
3 > churches for want of paying a few ecdefiaftical 
>» dues, and fo puts a flop to religion for want of their 
» money •, that the court of Inquifition burnt two 
■» men for fpeaking dishonourably of the blefled Vir- 
»> gin : and the miflionaries of China tolerated the 
» worshipping the devil by their new converts : that 
» Italywas the theatre, where religion was the'grand 
» opera •, and that the Popish clergy were no other 
» than the ftage-players ?*. 

As to religion in Poland, they deny Chrift to be the 
Mefiiah , or that the Meffiah has come in the flesh. 
And as to their Proteftants,they are the followers of 


Digitized by Gc 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 393 

Lslius Socinus, who denied our" Saviour’s divinity ; . 

and have no concern about the divine infpiration o£ 
the Holy Ghoft. 

In Mufcovy their churches are built of wood,and t 
indeed, they have but wooden priefts, though of the 
Greek church : they pray as much to S. Nicholas, as 
Papifts do to the Virgin Mary , for protection in all 
their difficulties or afflictions. 

As to Lutherans,they only differ from the Romans 
in believing confubftantiation,inftead of tranfubftan- 
tiation ; but, like them, they are much pleafedwith 
the external gallantry and pomp,more than the true 
and real praCtice of it. 

In France I found a world of priefts, the ftrcets 
every where crouded with them, and the churches full 
of women but furely never was a nation fo full of 
blind guides , fo ignorant of religion , and even as 
void of morals , as thofe people who confefs their 
fins to them. 

Does it not feem ftrange, that , while all men own 
the Divine Being, there should be fo many different 
opinions as to the manner of paying him obedience in 
the Chriftian church ? I know not what reafon to 
affign for this , except it be their different capacities 
and faculties. 

And , indeed , upon this account , we have percei- 
ved, in all Chriftian countries, what mortal feuds have 
been about religion : what wars and bloodshed have 
molefted Europe , till the general pacification of the 
German troubles at the treaty of Weftphalia; and , 
fince thofe times,whatperfecution in the fame coun« 

RJ 

p 

l 


Digitized by Google 



394 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
try among the churches of the Lutherans: and should 
I take a profpe ft at home, what unhappy divifions are 
between Chriflians in this kingdom, about Epifcopa- 
cy and Presbytery , the church of England men and 
the Diffenters; oppofing one another like St Paul and 
St Peter , even to the face; that is , they carry on the 
difpute to the utmofl extremity. 

It might be a aueftion, why there are fuch differen- 
ces in religious points, and why thefe breaches should 
be more hot and irreconcileable ? All the anfwer I 
can give to this, is, that we enquire more concerning 
the truth of religion , than any other nation in the 
world ; and the anxious concern we have about it , 
makes us jealous of every opinion , and tenacious of 
our own : and this is not becaufe we are'more furious 
and rash than other people ; but the truth is , we are 
more concerned about them , and being fenfible that 
the fcripture is the great rule of faith , the ftandard 
for life and doftrine , we have recourfe to it ourfel- 
ves , without fubmitting to any pretended infallible 
judge upon earth. 

There is another queftion, pertinent to the former, 
and that is , What remedy can we apply to this mala- 
dy ? And to this I mull negatively anfwer . Not to be 
lefs religious , that we may differ the lefs. This is 
linking at the very root of all religious differences; 
for, certainly, were they to be carried on with a peace- 
able fpirit , willing to be informed , our variety of 
©pinions would not have the name of differences; 
nor should we feparate in communion of charity , 
though we did not agree in feveral articles oi religion. 


Digitized by Google 





OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 395 

Nor is there a lefs ufeful queftion to ftart , namely. 
Where will our unhappy religious differences end ? 
To which , I hope , I may anfwer , In Heaven •, there 
all unchriftian and unbrotherly differences will find a 
period ; there we shall embrace many afinner , that 
here we think it a dishonour to converfe with ; and 
perceive many a heart we have broken here with cen- 
fures, reproachings, and revilings, made whole again 
by the balm of the fame Redeemer’s blood. Here we 
shall perceive there have been other flocks than thofe 
of our fold:that thofe we have excommunicated,have 
been taken into that fuperior communion : and , in a 
word, that thofe contradi&ing nations and principles 
which we thought inconfiftent with true religion, we 
shall then find reconcileable to themfelves,to one ano- 
ther , and to the fountain of truth. If any man ask 
me. Why our differences cannot be ended on earth? I 
anfwer, Were we all thoroughly convinced, that then 
they would be reconciled, we would put an end to 
them before ; but this is impoffible to be done : for , 
as men's certain con visions of truth are not equal to 
one another , or to the weight or fignificancy of fuch 
veracity •, fo neither can a general effett of this affair 
be expe&ed on this fide of time , on this fide of the 
grave. 

Before I conclude this chapter, I shall beg leave to 
difcourfe a little of the wonderful excellency of nega- 
tive religion and negative virtue. The latter fets our, 
like the pharifee, with, God , I thank thee ; it is a piece 
of religious pageantry, the hypocrite’s hope : and, in 
a word , it is pofitive vice : for it is either a mask to 

R 6 • 


1 


Digitized by Google 



396 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

deceive others , or a mill to deceive ourfelves. A 
man that is clothed with negatives , thus argues : I 
am not fuch a drunkard as my landlord , fuch a thief 
as my tenant , fuch a fwearer as his neighbour : nei- 
ther am I a cheat, an atheift, a rakish fellow, orahigh- 
wayman : no ! I live a fober , regular , retired life : I 
am a good man , I go to church ; God, I thaakrrhee. 
Now, though a man boalls of his virtue in contradic- 
tion to the vices mentioned , yet a perfon had better 
have them altogether , than the man himfelf ; for he 
is fo full of himfelf , fo perfuaded that he is good and 
religious enough already , that he has no thoughts of 
any thing , except it be to pull off his hat to God Al- 
mighty now and then, and thank him , that he has no 
occafion for him ; and has the vanity to think that his 
neigbours mull imagine well of him too. 

The negative man, though he is no drunkard, is yet 
intoxicated with the pride of his own worth : a good 
neighbour and peace-maker in other families , but a 
tyrant in his own : appears in church for a show, but 
never falls upon his knees in his clofet ; does all his 
alms before men, to be feen of them; eager in the du- 
ties of the fecond table, but regardlefs of the firft ; ap- 
pears religious , to be taken notice of by men , but 
without intercourfe or communication between God 
and his own foul : Pray , what is the man ? or what 
comfort is there of the life he lives ? he is infenfible 
of faith , repentance , and a Chriftian mortified life ; 
in a word , he is perfe&ly a ftranger to the effential 
part of religion. 

Let us for a while enter into the private and retired 


Of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 397 

part of his converfation : What notions has he of his 
mif-fpent hours , and of the progrefs of time to the 
greatcentre and gulf of life, eternity ? does he know 
how to put a right value on time , or efteem the life- 
blood of his foul , as it really is, and aft in all the 
moments of it , as one that rauft account for them ? If 
then you can form an equality between what he can 
do , and what he shall receive •, lefs can it be found- 
ed upon his negative virtue , or what he has forborn 
to do , and if neither his negative nor pofitive piety 
can be equal to the reward , and to the eternity that 
reward is to laft for, what then is to become of the 
Pharifee, when he is to be judged by the fincerity 
of his repentance , and rewarded, according to the 
infinite grace of God , with a ftate of bleffednefs to 
an endlefs eternity ? 

When the negative man converfes with the invifi- 
ble world, he is filled with as much horror and dread 
asFelix,whenStPaulreafonedto him of temperance, 
righteoufnefs , and of judgment to come : for Felix , 
though a great philofopher, of great power and reve- 
rence , was a negative man , and he was made fenfible 
by the apoftle, that, as a life of virtue and temperance 
was its own reward, by giving a healthy body, a clear 
head , and a compofed life ; fo eternal happinefs mull 
proceed from another fpring; namely, the infinite un- 
bounded graceofaprovoked God, who having ereft- 
ed a righteous tribunal , Jefus Chrift would feparate 
fuch as by faith and repentance he had brought home 
and united to himfelf by the grace of adoption , and 
on the foot of his having laid down his life as a ran* 



39$ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fom for them, and appointed them to falvation, when 
all the philofophy, temperance, and righteoufnefs in 
the world befides had been ineffectual. And this, Ifay, 
it was , that made Felix , this negative man , tremble. 

Chap. VI. Of lijiening to the voice of providence , 

T he magnificent and wife king Solomon bids us cry 
after knowledge, and lift up our voice for underftand- 
ing ; by which is meant , religious knowledge; for it 
follows : Then shalt thou underfiand the fear of the 
Lord , and find the knowledge of God. By which un- 
doubtedly he meant, to enquire after every thing that 
he has permitted us to know , and not to fearch into 
thofe ways that are unfearchable , and are effectually 
locked up from our knowledge. Now , as lijiening to 
the voice of providence is my prefent fubjeCt , I intend , 
in the firft place, to write to thofe who own , i. That 
there is a God, a firft great moving caufe of all things, 
an eternal power , prior , and confequently fuperior 
to all created power or being, a. That this eternal 
power, which is God.is the fovereing creator and go- 
vernor of heaven and earth. 

To avoid all needlefs diftinCtions, whatperfons in 
the Godhead exercife the creating , and what the go- 
verning power, I offer that glorious text, Pfal. xxiii. 
6 , where the whole Trinity is intitled to the whole 
creating work : and therefore , in the next place , I 
shall lay down thefe two propofirions. 

I. That the eternal God guides by his providence the 
whole univerfe , which was created by his power . 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 39? 

IT. That this providence manifefis a particular care 
over , and concern in , the governing and directing man , 
the mofi noble creature upon earth. 

It is plain , that natural religion proves the firft , fay 
intimating the neceflity of a providence guiding and 
governing the world , from the confequence of the 
wifdom, juftice, prefcience, and goodnefs of the al- 
mighty Creator : for otherwife it would be abfurd to 
think , that God should create a world , without any 
care or providence over it, in guiding the operatipns 
of nature, fo as to preferve the order of his creation. 

Revealed religion gives us a light into the care and 
concern of his providence, by the climate’s being made 
habitable, the creatures fubjedted and made nourish- 
ing , and all vegetative life made medicinal ; and all 
this for the fake of man , who is made viceroy to the 
King of the earth. The short defcription I shall give 
of providence is this : That it is that operation of the 
power, of the wifdom, juftice, and goodnefs of God, 
by whichhe influences, governs, and diredis, not on- 
ly the means, but the events of all things, which con- 
cern us in this fublunary world •, the fovereignty of 
which we ought always to reverence , obey its mo- 
tions, obferve its didlates, and liften to its voice. The 
prudent man forfeeth the evil , and hideth himfelf ; 
that is, as I take it, there is a fecret providence inti- 
mates to us, that fome danger threatens , if we ftrive 
not to shun it. 

The fame day that Sir John Hotham kept out Hull 
againft the royal martyr King Charles I. the fame day 
Sir John Hotham was put to death by the parliament 



400 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

for that very a&ion; the fame day that the King him- 
felf figned the warrant for the execution of the Earl 
of Stafford , the fame day of the month was he bar- 
baroufly murdered by the blood- thirfty Oliverian 
£rew : and the fame day that King James II. came to 
the crown againft the bill of exclufion , the fame day 
he was voted abdicated by the parliament, and the 
throne filled with King William and Queen Mary. 

The voice of fignal deliverances from fudden dan- 
gers , is not only a juft call to repentance , but a cau- 
tion againft falling into the like danger; but fuch who 
are utterly carelefs of themfelves after, shew a lethar- 
gy of the worft nature, which feems to me to be a kind 
of pra&ical atheifm, or at leaft a living in a contempt 
of Heaven, when he receives good at the hand of his 
Maker , but is unconcerned from whence it comes , 
or to thank the bountiful hand that gave it •, neither , 
when he receives evil, does it alter his manner of life, 
or bring him to any ftate of humiliation. 

We have a remarkable ftory of two foldiers being 
condemned to death in Flanders. The general being 
prevailed upon to fpare oneof them, ordered them to 
caft dice upon the drum-head for their lives; the firft 
having thrown two fixes , the fecond fell a wringing 
his hands , having fo poor a chance to efcape : how- 
ever , having thrown, he was furprifed when he alfo 
threw other two fixes. The officer, appointed to fee 
the execution , ordered them to throw again ; they 
did fo , and each of them threw fives ; at which the 
foldiers that ftood round, shouted, and faid neither of 
them was to die, Upon this , the officer acquainted ' 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 40X 

-the council of war , who ordered them to throw a 
third time , when they threw two fours •, the general 
being acquainted with it , fent for the men , and par- 
doned them : I love , faid he , in fuch extraordinary 
cafes , to liften to the voice of providence. 

We read in the holy writings , how God fpeaks to 
men, by appearance of angels , or by dreams and vi- 
fions of the night. As God appeared to Abraham , 
Lot, and Jacob -, fo angels have appeared to many in 
other cafes, as to Manoah and his wife, Zechariah, the 
Virgin Mary , and to the apoftles *, others have been 
warned in a dream , as king Abimelech, the falfe pro- 
phet Balaam , and many others. 

It is certainly a very great and noble enquiry, What 
we shall be after this life? for there is fcarce a doubt, 
that there is a place referved for the reception of our 
fouls after death : for if we are to be , we mull have 
a where , which the fcriptures affertby the examples 
of Dives and Lazarus. The dodlrine of fpiritswas 
Jong believed before our Saviour’s time ; for when the 
difciples of the blefled Jefus perceived our Saviour 
walking on the fea , they were much furprifed as tho' 
they had feen a fpirit. Nay.in thofe ages of the world, 
it was believed that fpirits intermeddled in the affairs 
of mankind-, and, throughout the OldTellament, I do 
not find any thing that in the leaft contradi&s it. All 
the pains and labour that fome learned men have 
taken , to confute the Itory of the witch of Endor , 
and the appearance of an old man perfonating Samuel, 
cannotmake fuchapparitionsinconfiftentwith nature 
or religion; and it is plain , that it was either a good 


Digitized by Googl 


402 lIFE AND ADVENTURES 

or bad fpirit , that prophetically told the unfortunate 
king what should happen the next day •, for , faid the 
fpirit , The Lord will deliver thee into thehnndsof the Phi- 
lifiines ; and to morrow shalt thou and thy fons he with me. 

Abundance of ftrange notions poffeffed me , when 
I was in the defolate ifland •, efpeciallyon a moonshine 
night, when every bush feemed a man, and every tree 
a man on horfeback. 'When I crept into the difmal 
cave, where the old goat lay expiring, whofe articu- 
late groans even refembledthofe of a man, how was I 
furprifed ! my blood chilled in my veins, a cold fwea- 
ty dew fat on my forehead , my hair flood upright , 
and my joints , like Balthazzar’s knees, ftruck againft 
one another. And, indeed, though I afterwards found 
what it was, the remains of this furprife did not wear 
off for a great while ; and I had frequently returns of 
thofe vapours on different occafions , and fometimes 
without any occafion at all. 

One night , after having feen fome appearance in 
the air , as I had juft lain down in my bed , one of m y 
feet pained me •, after that came a numbnefs, fucceed- 
ed with a tingling in my blood ; when on a fudden I 
thought fomething alive lay upon me, from my knee 
to above half my leg. Upon this I flung myfelfout 
of bed where I thought the creature lay : but finding 
nothing , Lord deliver me from an evil fpirit , faid I , 
what can this be ? When I lighted a candle , I could 
perceive no living creature in the place with me, but 
the poor parrot, who being frighted, cried out, Hold 
your tongue , and, JFhat y s the matter with you ? which 
words I had taught him, by faying fo to him,whenhe 


Digitized by CpQC 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 403 

ftiade fuch {creaming noifes as I did not like. Lord , 
faid I aloud , furely the devil has been here. Hold youf 
tongue , fays Poll. I was then mad at the bird , and 
putting on my clothes , cried , I am terribly frighted. 
What's the matter with you ? fays Poll. You toad , 
faid I , I’ll knock your brains out. Hold your tongue , 
cried he again , and fo fell a chattering, and calling 
Robinfon Crufoe , as he did before. But , after I had 
compofed myfelf , and went to bed again , I began 
plainly to fee it was a diftemper that affedted my ner- 
ves , and fo my terrors vanished at once. 

How intelligences are given or received, we do not 
know ; nor are we fenfible how they are conveyed 
from fpirits embodied, to ours that are in life •, or 
on the contrary, from us to them : the latter certain- 
ly is done without the help of the organs , and the 
former is conveyed by the underftanding, and the re- 
tired faculties of the foul. 

The fpirits , without the help of voices, converfe, 
and the more particular difcoveries of the converfe of 
fpirits, feem to me as follow •, to wit, dreams, voices, 
noifes , impulfes , hints , apprehenfions, involuntary 
fadnefs* &c. 

Dr earns of old were the ways by which God himfelf 
was pleafed to warn men what fervices to perform , 
and what to shun. Jofeph was diredfed of God in a 
dream to go to Egypt-, and fo were the wife men warn- 
ed in a dream to depart into their own country ano- 
ther way, to avoid the fury of Herod. I am not like 
thofe who think dreams are the mere dofings of a de- 
lirious head, or the relift of a day’s perplexities or 


Digitized by Google 


404 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

pleafures ■, but , on the contrary , I muft beg leave to 
fay, I never met "with any capital mifchief in my life, 
but I had fome notice of it by a dream ; and , had I 
not been a thoughtlefs unbelieving creature, I might 
have taken many a warning, and avoidedmany of the 
evils I afterwards fell into, merely by total negleft of 
thofe dreams. 

I was once prefent at a difpute between a layman 
and a clergyman , upon the fubjeft of dreams. The 
firft thought no regard should be given unto them : 
that their communication from the invifible to the 
vifible world was a mercchimera ; without any folid 
foundation. For, i. faid he, if dreams were from 
the agency ofany prefcient being, the motives would 
be more dirctt , and the difcoveries more plain •, and 
not by allegories and emblematic fancies, expreffing 
things imperfeft and obfcure. a. Since , with the 
notice of evil , there was not a power given to avoid 
it , it is not likely to proceed from a fpirit , but mere- 
ly fortuitous. 3. That the inconftancy of fuch no- 
tices, in cafes equally important, proves they did not 
proceed from any fuch agent. 4. That as our moft 
diftinfl: dreams had nothing in them of any fignifi- 
cancy , it would be irrational and vain to think that 
they came from heaven. And, 5. That as men were 
not always thus warned or fupplied with notice of 
good or evil , fo all men are not alike fupplied with 
them •, and what reafon could we give, why one man 
or one woman should not have the fame hints as 
another. 

To all tills the clcrgymat^gave anfwer *, 1, That, as 


Digitized by Googl< 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 40* 

to the Signification of dreams , and the obje&ions 
againft them as being dark and doubtful , they are ex- 
preffed generally by hieroglyphical representations, 
fimilies, allufions, and figurative emblematic ways, by 
which means , for want of interpretation , the thing 
was not underftood , and , consequently, the evil not 
shunned. 3. That we charge God foolishly , to fay, 
that he has given the notice of evilVithout the power 
to avoid it ; for, if any one had not power to avoid the 
evil , it was no notice to him ; and it was want of 
giving due heed to that notice, that men firft negledt- 
ed themfelves , and then charged the Judge of all the 
earth with injuftice. 3. That we ought not to find 
fault with the inconftancy ofthefe notices; but rather 
with our weak underftandmgs, by pretending dreams 
were not to be regarded , and negligent when the 
voice really fpoke to us for our good. It is a miftake 
to fay, dreams have no import at all: we might , with 
more reafon, have faid, none that we could perceive 
the reafon of, owing to our blindnefs andfupine ne»- 
gligence , too Secure at one time , and too much 
alarmed at another; fo that the fpirit, which we might 
be faid to be converfing with in a dream , was con- 
stantly and equally kind and careful ; but our powers 
are not always in the fame ftate of aftion, not equal- 
ly attentive to , or retentive of the hints that were 
given. And, 5. to anfwer the laft queftion, Why 
people are not equally Supplied? This feemed to be no 
queftion; for Providence itfelf might have fomeshare 
in the dire&ion of it, and then that provide nee might 
£e limited by a Superior direction : that a* to thq 



Digitized by Google 


4 o6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

converfc of fpirits, he couldnot call it a Rated convert 
fe ; fuch a thing there was , but why there was fo 
much of it , and no more , was none of his bulinefs f 
and that no fuch difcovery had ever yet been made 
to mankind. Nor were we to imagine lefs of waking 
dreams , trances , vilions , noifes, hints , impulfes , 
and all the waking teflimonies of an invilible world, 
and of the communication that there is between us 
and them , which commonly entertain us with our 
eyes open. 

One time my fancy foared on high , to fee what dif- 
coveries I could make inthofe clearer regions.I found 
that fuch immenfe bodies as the fun , Rars , planets , 
and moon, in the great circle of the lower heaven, are 
far from being found in the Rudy of nature on the 
furface of the earth. Here 1 faw many things that 
we can entertain little or no notion of, in a Rate of 
common life , and the emptinefs of our notion , that 
the planets are habitable worlds •, that is, created like 
ours, forthe fublifienceandexiRenceofmanandbeaft 
and the prefervation of the vegetative and fenfitive 
life : No , no , this is , 1 allure you , a world of fpirits j 
for here 1 faw a clear demonflration of Satan being 
the prince of the power of the air , keeping his court 
or camp , with innumerable angels to attend him ; 
but his power is not fo great as we imagine , he can 
tempt us to the crime, but cannot force us to commit 
it : Htimanum eft peccare. Neither has the devil 
power to force the worldintoa rebellionagainfl hea- 
ven , though.his legions are employed among favage 
nations , to fet up their maRer for a god , who make 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 407 

the heathens either worship him in perfon , or by his 
reprefentatives, idols and monfters,with the cruel fa- 
crifices of human blood. Now , as to the limitations 
of the devil’s power , you mult underftand , that , as 
there are numbers ofevilfpirits employed in mifchief 
fo there are numbers of good angels fent from the 
higher and blefled abodes to difconcert and oppofe 
their meafures •, and this every Chriftian, lhope, be- 
lieves, when he prays to God, the father of fpirits,to 
give his angels charge over him while he flumbereth 
and fleepeth. For if by thefe preventing powers the 
devil was not reftrained, the earth would be fubje&ed 
to dearth, droughts , and famine •, the air infedied with 
noxious fumes •, and , in a word , mankind would be 
utterly deftroyed, which might oblige our maker (if 
I may be allowed the expreflion) to the neceflity of 
a new fiat , or elfe have no more creatures to honour 
and worship him. 

- As the devil never wanted infinuators , I shall ob- 
ferve, thatl learned away how to make a man dream 
of what I pleafed. For inftance , let us fuppofe one 
to be found afleep •, let another lay his mouth clofe to 
his ear , and whifper any thing fo foftly as not. to 
awake him , the Beeping man shall dream of what has 
been fo whifpered in his ear ; nay , I can allure you , 
thofe infinuating devils can do this even when we 
ar'e awake , which I call impulfes of the mind : for 
from whence, but from thefe infinuators , come our 
caufelefs paflions , involuntary wickednefs, or finful 
defires ? Who elfe form ideas in the mind of man 
when he is afleep , or prefent terrible or beautiful fi. 



40 $ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

% 

gures to his fancy ? Mr Milton reprefents the devil 
tempting Eve in the shape of a toad, lying juft at her 
ear, when in her bower she lay faft afleep; and brings 
in Eve telling Adam what an uneafy night’s reft she 
had , and relating her dream to him. And likewife 
I believe that good fpirits have the fame intercourfe 
with us , in warning us againft thofe things that are 
evil , and prompting us to that which is good. 

Were we to have the eyes of our fouls opened , 
through the eyes of our bodies, we should fee this ve- 
ry immediate region of air which we breath in, 
thronged with fpirits now invifible, and which other- 
wife would be the moft terrible : we should view the 
fecret tranfa&ions of thofe meflengers who are em- 
ployed when the parting foul takes its leave of the 
relu&ant body , and perhaps fee things nature would 
shrink back from with the utmoft terror and amaze- 
ment. In a word , the curtain of providence for the 
difpolitions of things here , and the curtain of judg- 
ment for the determination of the ftate of fouls here- 
after, would be alike drawnback;andwhatheart could 
fupport here its future ftate in life , much lefs that of 
its future ftate after life , even good or bad. 

A gentleman of my acquaintance , being about fe- 
ven miles dillant from London, a friend that came to 
dine with him, folicited him to go to the city. What , 
faid the gentleman, is there any occasion for me ? No, 
Sir , faid the other , nothing at.all, except the enjoy- 
ment ofy our good company; an dfo gave over impor- 
tuning him. Juft then a ftrong impulfe of mind ur- 
ged the gentleman , and purfued him like a voice , 

with, 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 409 

with , Go to London , Go to London. Hark ye , fay* 
he to his friend , is all well at London ? Am I want- 
ed there ? Or , did you ask me to go with you on any 
particular account ? Are all my family well i Yes , in- 
deed, Sir, faid he, I perceived them all very hearty ■, 
and I did not ask you to go to London upon any parti- 
cular account whatsoever, except it was for the fake of 
your good company. Again he put off his refolution t 
but ftill the impulfe fuggefted to him , Go to London; 
and at length he did fo. When he came there , he 
found a letter and meffenger had been there to feek 
him , and to tell him of a particular bufinefs , which 
was firft and laft above a thoufand pounds to him , and 
which might inevitably been loft , had he not gone to 
London that night. 

The obeying of Several hints, or fecret impulfes ar- 
gues great wifdom. I knew a man that was under 
misfortunes, being guilty ofmifdemeanorsagainft the 
government ; when , abfconding for fear of his ruin * 
all his friends advifing him not to put himfelf in the 
hands of the law , one morning as he awaked, he felt 
a ftrong impulfe darting into his mind thus, Writt <t 
Utter to them : and this was repeated Several times to 
his mind , and at laft he anfwered to it , as if it had 
been a voice , Whom shall I write to ? Immediately it 
replied , Write to the judge ; and this impulfe purfu- 
ed him for Several days , till at length he took pen t 
and ink , and paper , and fat down to write to him ; - 
when immediately words flowed from his pen , like 
ftreams from a fair fountain, that charmed even him- 
felf with hopes of fuccefs. In short , the letter was 

$ 


4xo LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fo ftrenuousin argument, To pathetic in its eloquence, 
and fo perfuafively moving, that when the judge had 
read it , he fent him an anfwer he might be eafy , he 
would endeavour to make that matter light to him ; 
and , indeed , never left exerting himfelf , till he had 
ftopt the profecution, and reftored him to his liberty 
and family. 

I know a perfon who had fo ftrong an impreffion 
upon her mind , tharthe houfe she was in would be 
burnt that very night , that she could not fleep ; the 
impulfe she had upon her mind preffed her not to go 
to bed , which , however , she got over, and went to 
bed ; but was fo terrified with the thought which 
run in her mind , that the houfe would be burnt, that 
she could not go to fleep •, but communicating her 
apprehenfions to another in the family,they were both 
in fuch a fright, that they applied themfelves to fearch 
from the top of the houfe to the bottom , and to fee 
'every fire and candle fafe out, fo that, as they all faid, 
it was impoflibleany thing could happen in the houfe, 
and they fent to the neighbours on bothfides to do 
the like. Thus far they did well : but had she obey- 
ed the hint which prefled uponher ftrangely notto go 
to bed , shd had done much better *, for the fire was 
a&ually kindled at that very time , though not bro- 
ken out. About an hour after the whole family was 
in bed, the houfe juft over the way, dire&ly oppofite, 
“was all in flames, and the wind, which was very high, 
blowing the flame upon the houfe this gentlewoman 
lived in, fo filled it with fmoak and fire, in a few mo- 
ments , the ftreet being narrow, that they had not air 


OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 411 

to breathe, or time to do any thing , but jump out of 
their beds, and fave their lives. Had she obeyed the 
hint given , and not gone to bed , she might have fa-* 
ved feveral things-, but the few moments she had fpa- 
red to her , were but juft fufficient to leap out of bed , 
put fome clothes on, and get down ftairs,for the houfe 
was on fire in half a quarter of an hour. 

"While I am mentioning thefe things , methinks it 
is very hard,that we should obey the whifpers of evil 
| fpirits,andnot much ratherreceive the notices which 
1 good ones are pleafed to give. We never perceive 
1 the misfortune of this , but when in real danger : and 

i then we cry ‘ My mind, mifgave me when I was going 

I about it : but if fo , why do you flight the caution * 

i Why not liften to it as to a voice ? and then there 
| had been no reafon to make this complaint. 

1 I remember about 14 or 1 5 years ago (as to time I 
I cannot be very pofitive) there was a young clergyman 

| in the city of Dublin in Ireland , who dreamed a ve- 
ry uncommon dream , That a gentleman had killed 
his wife , a relation of his , by ftabbing her in feveral 
places ; the fright of this awaked him , but finding it 
a dream, he compofedhimfelf again tofleep,when he 
dreamed a fecond time the fame dream. This made 
him a little uneafy j but thinking it proceeded from 
the impreflion made on his mind by the former , he 
went to fleep again , and dreamed the fame dream a 
third time alfo. So troubled was he at this , that he 
arofe , and knocked at his mother’s chamber, told his 
concern , and his apprehenfions that all were not right 
at his relation’s houfe. Dear fon » fays the good old 

Sa 


by Google 


4ii LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

gentlewoman, do not mind thefe foolish dreams : and 
1 very much wonder , that you, being a perfon in ho- 
ly orders , should have regard to fuch illufions. Up- 
on this he went to bed again, fell afleep, and dreamed 
a fourth time as before. And then indeed he put on 
his night-gown , and went to Smithfield , the place 
Where his relation dwelt. Here it was , alas 1 he per- 
ceived his dream too fadly fulfilled, by feeing his re- 
lation , the young lady , big with child , who was a 
Proteftant, ftabbedin feven places, by her barbarous 
husband Mr Euftace , a violent Papift , only for fome 
difeourfes of religion that happened the day before. 
After the wretch had ftabbed her in three places , he 
Went to make his efcape out at a window; but she cried 
Out , My dear ! don’t leave me , come back , and I shall 
ie well again. At which he returned in a hellish 
rage, and gave her four wounds more; when, even in 
this condition, rifing from her bed, she wrapped her- 
felf in her night-gown, and went to the Lord Bishop 
of Rapho’s chamber-door (the bishop lodging at that 
time in the houfe) , My Lord, faid she , O , My Lord , 
make ha fie unto me ; but as foon as his Lordship came 
she expired in his arms , refigning her precious foul 
into the hands of Almighty God. The cruel 
wretch her husband was shot by the purfuers.too good 
a death for one who deferved the gibbet ; and the la- 
dy was univerfally lamented by all tender and religi- 
ous people. And this tragical relation I have men- 
tioned , upon the account of that impulfe, or dream , 
that the clergyman had at the fatal time of the bloody 
attion. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 41J 

It might be expe&ed I should enter upon the fub- 
jett of apparitions, and difcourfe concerning the rea- 
lity of them; and whether they can revifit the place 
of their former exiftence, and refume thofe faculties 
of fpeech and shape as they had when living ; but ( 
as thefe are very doubtful matters, 1 shall only make 
a few obfervations upon them.' 

• I once heard of a man that would allow the reality 
of apparitions, but laid it all upon the devil, thinking 
that the fouls of men departed, or good men, did ne- 
.ver appear. To this very man fomething did appear: 
he faid , he faw the shape of an ancient man pafs by 
him in the dusk , who , holding up his hand in a 
threatening pofture , cried out , O , wicked man , re- 
pent , repent ! Terrified with this apparition, he con- 
fultedfeveral friends, whoadvifed him to take thead- 
vice. But , after all , it was not an apparition , but a 
grave and pious gentleman , who met him by mere 
accident , and had been fenfiblc of his wickednefs , 
and who never undeceived him , left it should hinder 
his reformation. Were we always willing to make 
good ufe of Satan’s real appearances , I know not 
but it would go a great way to banish him from the 
vifible world ; for I am very pofitive, he would fel- 
dom vifit us , if he thought his coming would do us 
any good : but fo abfolutely is he at the command of 
heaven , that he muft go , even to do the work he 
abhors. 

Some people make a very ill ufe of the general no- 
tion , that there are no apparitions nor fpirits at all : 
which is worfe than thofe who fancy they fee them 


4H IFE AND ADVENTURES, &c. 

upon every occafion : for thofe carry their notions 
farther , even to annihilate the devil , and believe no- 
thing about him , neither of one kind or other : the 
next ftep they come to , is to conclude , There is no 
God , and fo atheifm takes its rife in the fame fink , with 
a careleffnefs about futurity. But there is no occa- 
fion to enter upon an argument to prove the being of 
the Almighty, or to illuftrate his power by words , 
who has fo many undeniable teftimonies in the breafts 
of every rational being, to prove his exiftence : and 
we have fufficient proofs, enough to convince us of 
the greatfuperintendency of divine providence in the 
tninutefi affairs of this world , the manifeft exiftence 
of the invifible world-, the reality offpirits, and in- 
telligence between us and them. "What I have faid , I 
hope, will notmiflead any perfon,or be ameans where- 
by they may delude themfelves-, for I have fpoken 
of thefe things with the utmoft ferioufnefs of mind , 
and with a fincere and ardent defire for the general 
good and benefit of the world. 





1 


ERRATA. 

Pag. if, lin. 4, yon, read you. — P. 34, 1. 29, thee, r. 
three. — P. 46 , 1 . 1 , fowl, r. fowls. — P. 47 , 1 . 1 1 , lie lie 
dry , r. lie dry. — P. 37, l. 7 , fathers, r. father’s. — P. 59, 
1 . 19, chewed, r. chewed it. P. 84, 1 . 27, live, r. lived. 

P. 91 , 1, 16, be, r. he. — P. 10S , 1 . 31 , then, r. than. 
- — P. 112, I.3, is,r. his. — P. 124, 1 . 4, they, r. the. 

P. 174, 1 . 20, prieft, r. priefts. — P. 195 , 1 . 18, connot, r. 
cannot. — P. 216, L 6, hear, r. heard. — P. 236, 1 . 25, 
pervent, r. prevent. — P. 298* 1 . 6, divided, r. was divided. 

— P. 303 , 1 . 17, is is , r. it is. — P. 312 , 1 . 13 , leave, r. 
have. — P. 31 f , 1 . 27 , be, r. he. — P. 34f , 1 . 6 , b , r. be. 
— •» Ibid. 1 . 29 , Samatra, r. Sumatra. — -P. 3 f 4 , 1 . 3 1 , fcalled , 
r. fealded. — P. 361 , 1 . 17, Geueofe , r. Genoefe. — P. 362, 
. 28, if pleafed , r. if I pleafed. — P. 381 , 1 . 16, is , r. his. 

— P. 387, 1 . 12, forteiture: r. forfeiture. — P. 389, 1 . f , 
immortality, r. immorality. — P. 391 , 1 . 31 , contracting , r. 
contradicting. --- P. 393 , 1 . 1 3 , nations, r. notions. — P. 402, 
I. .16, Balshauar’s , r, Balthazzar’s. 


kac- 


J by Google 




Digitized by Google 




