SJOUKE GABBES 



A DUTCH SOURCE FOR 
ROBINSON CRUSOE 




SJOUKE GABBES 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

Microsoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/dutchsourceforroOOsmeeuoft 




m 



| 



M.ATK I. FRONTISPIECE TO KRINKE KESMES, DUTCH EDITION, 1708 




A DUTCH SOURCE FOR 

ROBINSON CRUSOE 



THE NARRATIVE OF THE 

EL-HO 

"SJOUKE GABBES" 

(ALSO KNOWN AS HENRICH TEXEL) 



AN EPISODE FROM THE 
DESCRIPTION of the MIGHTY KINGDOM 

OF 

KRINKE KESMES, Et cetera 

BY 
HENDRIK SMEEKS 

1708 Q?, II Q£ 



17^3/0 



TRANSLATED FROM THE DUTCH AND COMPARED 
WITH THE STORY OF 

ROBINSON CRUSOE 

BY 
LUCIUS L. HUBBARD 

AUTHOR OF "WOODS AND LAKES OF MAINE" "CONTRIBUTIONS 
TOWARDS A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF GULLIVER'S TRAVELS," 
Et cetera 



ANN ARBOR 

GEORGE WAHR, PUBLISHER 

1921 



PT 

mi 



Copyright 1921 by 
L. L. Hubbard 



One hundred and twenty-five copies of this book have 
been printed for Holland, with a title-page in Dutch. 



To the 

People of Holland 

this little book is respectfully inscribed 

in the hope that it may help award to 

one of their countrymen 

the meed that is justly his 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

List of Illustrations ix 

Apropos xi 

Preface xiii 

Introduction xix 

The Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes com- 
pared WITH THAT OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 1 

De Historie van den El-ho [Sjouke 

Gabbes] Ill 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

PAGE 

PLATE I. 
Frontispiece to Krinke Kesmes, Dutch 
edition, 1708 Front. 

PLATE II. 
Title page to Krinke Kesmes, Dutch 
edition, 1708 xxii 

PLATE III. 
Final page of Introduction to Krinke 
Kesmes, 1708, with Smeeks's protest xxiv 

PLATE IV. 

Manuscript page in Smeeks's hand- 
writing xxv 

PLATE V. 

Page 229 from Krinke Kesmes, 1708, 
with Smeeks's notes xxvi 

PLATE VI. 

Title page to the El-ho's story, Ger- 
man edition, 1721 xxviii 

PLATE VII. 
Frontispdzce to the El-ho's story, 
German edition, 1721 xxix 



APROPOS 

"Beaucoup de nos Modernes ne lui sembloient 
que les echos d'autres Savans. . . Quand je 
lui demandois pourquoi done il lisoit les ouvrages 
d'autrui, il me repondit que c'etoit pour con- 
noitre les Iarcins d'autrui, et que, s'il eut ete 
juge de ces sortes de crimes, il y auroit etabli 
des peines plus rigoreuses que celles dont on 
punit les voleurs de grands chemins ; a, cause que, 
la gloire etant quelque chose de plus precieux 
qu'un habit, qu'un cheval, et meme que de l'or, 
ceux qui s'en acquierent par des livres qu'ils 
composent de ce qu'ils derobent chez les autres 
etoient comme des voleurs de grands chemins, 
qui se parent aux depens de ceux qu'ils deval- 
isent," etc. (Preface of Henri Lebret aine, in 
Cyrano de Bergerac's Histoire Comique des 
Stats et Empires de la Lune et du Soleil, Paris, 
Gamier Freres, page 85 (1875). 



PREFACE 

The translation of a Dutch boy's story 
which is the subject of the following pages, 
and a careful reexamination of the narra- 
tive of Robinson Crusoe, brought to the 
writer the conviction that the latter, in its 
setting, in many of the incidents which it 
chronicles, and in the traits and activities 
of its hero, bears a telling and suspicious 
resemblance to the former, which preceded 
it by eleven years, — enough of a resem- 
blance to justify the query: "Is not the 
earlier story in fact, and ought it not of 
right to be considered, the pattern after 
which "Robinson" was molded?" 

The lapse of two hundred years may 
seem to have confirmed title in Defoe, first, 
to originality for the best conception ex- 
tant of a story of solitary life in the wilder- 
ness, and, second, to superiority for the 
manner in which the literary part of that 
conception is worked out. If at this late 
day the right to either of these heritages 
be contested, it will not do for the ad- 
[xiii] 



[xiv] Sjouke Gabbes 



herents of Defoe to plead the statute of 
limitations. The issue must be met fairly 
and decided on the facts. 

With the second of these points, except 
where the two may be deemed inseparable, 
we are not here particularly concerned. 
The title to literary superiority will have 
to be decided on expert testimony by the 
Court. There is a good deal of force ex- 
pressed by Hirtius, the friend of Julius 
Caesar, and supposed author of parts of 
the Commentaries, when he says: "Con- 
stat enim inter omnes, nihil tarn operose ab 
aliis esse perfectum, quod non horum ele- 
!i mi tin commentariorum superetur." (Bell. 
Gall. 8, Praef. 4; quoted by Sanders in 
Die Quellencontamination im 21. und 22. 
Buche des Livius. Berlin, 1898, p. 12.) 
This sentiment applies as well to imitators 
as to commentators. The habit of literary 
imitation seems to have originated long 
before the Christian era, and to have been 
prevalent until after Defoe's time. " While 
artistic imitation was thus recognized and 
approved by ancient critical opinion, plag- 
iarism was condemned. The ancients un- 
derstood by plagiarism close verbal imita- 



Preface [xv] 

tion or even free paraphrase, especially if 
the imitator made no direct acknowledg- 
ment of his sources, or even deliberately 
concealed them." 1 

On the first point, however, we purpose 
to go to the Jury, and our evidence will be 
the Dutch boy's narrative and parallel pas- 
sages from " Robinson." There will be a 
good many thoughts and phrases common 
to the two narratives that a priori need not 
imply imitation on Defoe 's part. Their sig- 
nificance lies in the fact that they go to make 
up essential parts in two works that we are 
trying to compare by the test of originality. 
But these thoughts may inferentially be- 
come more important, if we find that other 
thoughts have unmistakably been taken by 
Defoe from the earlier author. The num- 
ber of such appropriations may be found to 
be so great, that " Robinson" will have to 
be regarded as an imitation, and the credit 
for originality in the common motif that 
underlies the two stories will rightly be 
accorded to Smeeks. 

1 Cf. Lucilius and Horace : A Study in the Classical 
Theory of Imitation. George Converse Fiske, Univer- 
sity of Wisconsin Studies, No. 71, 1920, p. 27. 



[rvi] Sjouke Gabbes 



In connection with this translation, a 
perusal of the scanty printed comments on 
the Dutch story, and frequent converse 
with scholars of English, have revealed to 
the writer an amazing and widespread 
ignorance of the existence either of the 
story or of the comments. That a claim to 
priority against "Robinson," made in 
1910, in a high-class foreign magazine, 
should not have become known to the gen- 
eral English-speaking public, might be ex- 
pected, but that it should not have filtered 
through into university and other literary 
circles in ten years, because it was made in 
Dutch, points to an inexcusable neglect of 
that language in our institutions of higher 
learning in this age of culture. 

The work on this translation, while in 
progress, also has naturally suggested 
some by-paths that might appropriately be 
explored at the same time that the main 
avenue was being investigated that leads 
to Defoe's knowledge of the earlier story. 
But the writer must leave that task — or 
pleasure — to experts in this particular 
field, and content himself with the privilege 
of laying before the public without further 






Preface [xvii] 

delay the original text, its translation into 
English now first made after two hundred 
years, and such other material as, in spite 
of drawbacks, he has been able to assemble, 
and which, together, in his opinion, go far 
to justify and confirm the conclusions al- 
ready reached, and claims made, by Dutch 
investigators before him. These he offers 
here, not in any sense as exhaustive of the 
subject, but rather as a contribution to the 
literature of "Bobinson." 

He begs, finally, to acknowledge with 
gratitude his debt, for their aid in render- 
ing his translation accurate, to Professor 
and Mrs. J. G. Winter, Professor M. W. 
Senstius, Mr. Victor E. Van Ameringen; 
to Doctor Henry C. Hutchins, for friendly 
criticisms ; and not least of all to Professor 
F. N. Scott, for helpful sugestions and en- 
couragement. 

LUCIUS L. HUBBAED 

Houghton, Michigan 
July, 1921 



INTRODUCTION 

To readers of Robinson Crusoe who are famil- 
iar with the story of Alexander Selkirk the 
statement will perhaps come as a surprise, that 
the experiences of Selkirk on the island of Juan 
Fernandez may not have furnished the motif for 
"Robinson" nor anything more than some 
"meagre outlines" for it, if they did even that. 1 

In fact, the only materials of consequence com- 
mon to the two narratives are the goats and tame 
kids, the goat-skin clothing, the recording of 
time by notches in wood, the study of the Bible, 
and religious contemplation, and even these may 
have been taken by Defoe from other sources. 
For example, we know from the Bucaniers of 
America, published in Dutch in 1678, and in 
English, first in 1684, that the island of His- 
paniola 2 furnished wild bulls and cows to the 
pirates that infested the West Indies. From 
bulls to goats is not a far cry, and the use of the 
skins of wild animals for clothing has been of 
course known from primitive ages. Again, keep- 

i Hettner, Robinson und die Bobinsonaden. Vortrag, 
Berlin, 1854. Beprinted in Litt. Gesch. d. 18. Jahrh., 
1865, I, p. 305. 

2 Haiti or Santo Domingo. 

[xix] 



[xx] Sjouke Gabbes 



ing an account of time by means of notches in 
wood was done by Simplicissimus, 3 who also 
made pottery, had his daily employments, and 
gave expression of other ideas found in "Robin- 
son." 

Daniel Defoe according to one of his biog- 
raphers was a "born tradesman, always writing 
for the market, always keeping a steady eye on 
the main chance, ' H and it was probably the wide 
interest awakened by Selkirk's experience as re- 
ported by Woodes Rogers 5 that quickened, but 
did not necessarily originate, in Defoe the im- 
pulse to take up and work out a theme along 
similar lines. Captain Rogers out of his own 
experience possibly contributed the currents that 
swept past Selkirk's island, or the third voyage 
of Columbus may have been responsible for that 
incident, since its track was across the outflowing 
waters of the Orinoco. Indeed, even with these 
exceptions, the incidents recorded by Robinson 
may not all have been original with Defoe. They 
may have come from sources little known, or 
generally forgotten in his time. At any rate, 
Rogers had brought back from the South Sea a 
tale of solitary life on a desert island ; had seen 

a Der Abenteuerliche Simplicissimus. Grimmelshaus- 
en. Bepr. Halle, 1902, VI, 19, et seq. 

4 The Life of Daniel Defoe. Wright. London, 1894. 

8 A Cruising Voyage round the World. London, 1712; 
Second Ed., 1718. 



Introduction [xxi] 



its hero, and printed an account of him, which 
was then recently in its second edition, and that 
an English-speaking public should see in that 
account the source of Defoe's story, was, under 
the circumstances, quite natural and quite suffi- 
cient. Any search for other sources probably 
did not occur even to scholars of Defoe's day, 
and the lapse of time has brought with it the 
accumulating plaudits of generations of readers, 
for the manner in which he has invested his 
Robinson with interest, and humanized him. 

The literary studies of Cyrano de Bergerac, 
as we have seen on an earlier page, were directed 
chiefly to ascertain the sources from which writ- 
ers derived their material, 6 which is an indirect 
way of re-stating the trite assertion that there 
is nothing new under the sun. Literary piracy 
seems to have been prevalent in Cyrano's day. 
It was with some such thought in his mind too, 
that Ten Brink 7 took up the consideration of 
Robinson, but he soon dismissed the search for 
an antecedent prototype as useless, for the reason 
that Defoe 's creation was so completely original ! 
The purpose of these pages is not to review in 
extenso the Robinsonian literature, but to con- 
fine our attention principally to one source from 

^Gulliver's Travels and other works oy Jonathan Swift. 
Henry Morley. London, 1906, p. 421. 

7 Romans in Prosa. Leiden, [1899], Afl. VII, p. 414. 



[xxii] Sjouke Gabbes 



which Defoe appears to have drawn much of his 
material, and possibly his inspiration also. 

Shipwreck or abandonment, followed by exist- 
ence on an island, isolated from human society, 
was not a novelty even in Selkirk's time. The 
publications of his day contained examples of 
it, some real, — in voyages of discovery, — and 
some imaginary. Among the latter is the sub- 
ject of these pages, a story of paramount interest 
to which Staverman 8 called attention in 1907. It 
is the narrative of a Dutch cabin boy, who, aban- 
doned on Krinke Kesmes, an island in the 
South Sea, for many years maintained his exist- 
ence just as, eleven years later, Robinson is 
reported to have done in the other hem- 
isphere. A perusal of this story, which 
forms part of a book published in Holland 
in 1708, and its comparison with Robinson, will 
disclose resemblances already noted in our pref- 
ace, which are more or less disguised in places 
under cover of a mannerism or method, peculiar 
to the Robinson narrative when it repeats state- 
ments previously made in its own pages. There 
can be no reasonable doubt that Defoe knew this 
book, and perhaps little, that he had it by him 
when he wrote parts of his Robinson, but of this 

8(7/. Bobinson Crusoe in Nederland. W. H. Staver- 
man. Groningen, 1907, pp. 45, 51. 




\ 



BESCHRYVINGE 
Van het magtig Konirigryk 

KRINKE KESMES- 

- Zynde een groot, en veele kleindere 
Eilandcn daar aan horende $ 

Makende tc zamen een gedeelte van hct 
onbekende 

ZUI.D.LA.N D. 

Gelegen onder den Tropicus Capricornus. 

Ontdekt door den Heer 

Muan;de posos, 

En nit deszelfs Schriften te zamen gefis It 
Door H. SMEEKS.. 




Te AMSTERDAM, 

»y NIC OLA AS ten HOORN, 

Boekvcrkooper,ovcr 't Oude Heeren Logement, 1 708* 



PLATE II. TITLE PAGE TO KRINKE KESMES, DUTCH EDITION, 1708 



Introduction [xxiii] 



the reader will be able to judge for himself. 9 
The narrative of the Dutch cabin boy was, in 
part, reprinted by Hoogewerff in 1909, 10 and in 
a free translation in German, in its entirety, by 
Max Lehnert in 1920. 1Oa 

The book opens with an account of the early 
life of the supposed narrator, Juan de Posos, 
gives a description of ship scurvy, and then the 
narrator, after a discussion of voyages of discov- 
ery, a reference to engineering work on the Texel 
Stroom, and to some other, personal matters, pro- 

» The title of the work in question, translated into 
English, is as follows: 

Description / of the mighty kingdom / Krinke 
Kesmes. / Being one large, and many smaller / islands 
thereto belonging; / Making together a part of the / 
unknown / SOUTHLAND / situated under the tropic of 
Capricorn. / Discovered by Mr. / Juan de Posos, / and 
composed from his writings / by H. SMEEKS. / (Print- 
er's device) / Amsterdam, / At Nicolaas ten Hoorn's / 
Bookseller, over the Old Gentlemen's Inn, 1708. / 

Collation: Pp. — front, t.p. (verso blank); introd. 
vi (unn.) ; chapter-coD tents, vi (unn.), 286; 15% cm. 
(Pis. I and II.) 

Four Dutch editions are known, of 1708, 1721, 1732, 
and 1776, respectively. The edition of 1732 has only 
recently turned up. 

w Een Nederlandsche Br on van den Robinson Crusoe. 
Onze Eeuw, IX, 9, Sept. 1909, p. 399. 

io* Bobinsonaden, Band V. der Bohmische Bobinson 
sowie der Hollandische Bobinson. Baben-Verlag, Char- 
lottenburg. 



[xxiv] Sjouke Gabbes 



ceeds to detail his business affairs and final de- 
parture from Panama for the Philippine Islands, 
on a trading voyage. 

His ship meets with a storm and is driven to 
the coast of an unknown country, — the South- 
land, — where a squad of men under command 
of De Posos is set on land to make a reconnais- 
sance. The party is taken prisoner by the in- 
habitants of Krinke Kesmes, treated well, and 
after mutual trading, suffered to depart. In the 
interval the narrator utilizes his stay in an im- 
portant city, Taloujael, to inspect the public 
buildings and learn the history, government, and 
customs of the people. Philosophical discussions 
between two academies, for men and women re- 
spectively, are introduced into the narrative, and 
a great many proverbs are given on silence, 
religion, education, and against drunkenness, 
which constitute the precepts by which, in addi- 
tion to five fundamental laws, the lives of these 
people are regulated, and lend to this part of the 
book the character of a Utopia. A good deal of 
Cartesian doctrine is embodied in the proverbs 
on religion and in the discussions between the 
Dutch leader and his cicerone, the "garbon" or 
overseer. 

Of the author, Hendrik Smeeks, little is known 
except that he was a surgeon and lived at Zwolle 
(in Overyssel), as the signature to his preface 



HI 



VOOR-REEDEN. 

tekeningen gemaakt vvegens de ftfo- 
men, Havens, Hoofdenenz. van 't 
Tcxel-firoom , met eenigefteliingcn om 
onze landcn voor verder inbreuk van *t 
water te dekkcn.Hy hccf t ook ccn niet 
onkundige bcfchry vinge van dcScheeps 
Scheurhmk gedaan, met eenige aan- 
wyzing om die kwaal te "konnen 
voorkomcn enz 

Voor de reft behoefd de Leezer 
gene hoogdravende ftyl te vervvag- 
ten , vermits de Schryver meer op 
de zaak zelf als op eene ficrlyke 
fchryfwyze gelet heeft ; en het den 
Zeeman meer eigen is zakelykheden 
voor te ftcllen , dan een opgepronk- 
te taale te gebruiken. Doorleeft, 
merkt op , en doet *er u voordeel 
mede. 

^ j*t^O?J*. H - Smbeks - 

y>~**"&*- Cbirurgyn te mpolk. 



IN- 



PLATE III. FINAL PAGE OF INTROIHTTION TO KRINKE KESMES, 1708, 
WITH SMEEKS'S PROTEST 





! 



•Ten- #<*>t*L $<&tfP i^X^aATtojS 
jj$ %R Q&J& vx*l cu*£) \HKht J~S+~ 




PLATE IV. MANUSCRIPT PAGE IN SMEEKS'S HANDWRITING, WITH 
HIS SIGNATURE 



Introduction [xxv] 



indicates (PI. Ill), and died in 1721, at an ad- 
vanced age. 11 In his earlier life he had probably 
had a good deal of experience at sea. 12 The name 
"Kesmes" is an anagram for Smeeks, and the 
names of the academies, Nemnan and Wonvure, 
stand for "Mannen" and "Vrouwen" respect- 
ively, as Staverman points out. 

In the Royal Library at The Hague there is a 
copy of the first edition of "Krinke Kesmes" 
that belonged to Smeeks himself. From notes in 
it made in his handwriting we learn, among 
other things, that the actual preface in his book 
was written by the publisher, and substituted for 
one prepared by Smeeks, for on the last page of 
the former, Smeeks in pen and ink has entered 
his protest in these words: "This preface has 
my name printed under it, but I neither com- 
posed it, nor ever saw it before it was printed" 
(PI. III). On sheets pasted on the opposite and 
subsequent pages is a statement, which relates 
to the same subject: "My introduction to the 
reader, which I sent to Ten Hoorn, to have 
printed for this little book, with permission to 
alter the style, is as follows. ' ' Then come three 
pages headed "To the Reader" (PI. IV), with 
Smeeks 's signature, and his modest reply to Ten 
Hoorn 's remark that Smeeks 's introduction was 



n Staverman, loc. cit., p. 54. 

12 Nog eens de Nederlandsche Bron van de Robinson 
Crusoe. Naber. Onze Eeuw, X, 3. March, 1910, p. 428. 



[xxvi] Sjouke Gabbes 



the work of a child — "I have never given my- 
self out for a wise man. ' ' 1S Opposite the 
frontispiece we find in a different handwriting 
from that of Smeeks, but curiously enough 
signed "H. S.," the following evidence of censor- 
ship: [I have] "read this little work with the 
written notes and additions, in the year 1775, 
and not only found that there is Cartesian senti- 
ment in it, but that also the opinions of two doc- 
tors, Bontekoe and Overkamp, are ridiculed, and 
therefore it is evident to me that the little work 
is full of pernicious things concerning re- 
ligion. Read, 1775. On p. 6 in the second 
manuscript there is a statement about Dr. Corn : 
Bontekoe and his work. ' ' 14 

So much for the book and its author. De 
Posos, during his stay in Taloujael, meets a 
Dutchman called the Elho or Freeman, and by 
him is given a written account of the Elho's 
arrival in Krinke Kesmes as a cabin boy, on a 
desolate part of the island, and of his years of 

18 The writer is under obligations to Baron Mulert of 
Ommen, and to Mr. Posthumus of The Hague, for tran- 
scripts and photographs of these inscriptions. The "book 
in question is filled with notes, some of which appear to 
have been made in contemplation of a new edition. 
(PL V.) 

14 Dr. Bontekoe was a medical man, but wrote on meta- 
physical subjects, as appears in the passages written by 
Smeeks, indicated in the censor's postscript. 



flS 



Krinke Kes'mes* 2*9 

aanhangendc - 7 zijn Mantel was vol Oogen 
en Ooren, onder zijn Oxels hadcle Ivy Bqc- - 
ken, Papier, Fennen, Inkt, Penzeclcn, en 
Verfs inzijnregterPopthield hycen Schaa- 
lc, die hy geduurig in balins zogt te hou- 
den, met nu in de cene, dan in'deandcre 
blaazende, in zijn linker Poot hield hy ecu 
Touw, daarEezcis, Bokken, enVerkens, 
met Buffels aangebonden waaren, die hem 
.goedwillig fcheenen te volgen. u^'t- W>t^i»£i£ $c , 
3 De Gevtmfthcid wierd hier verbeeld , door ^c&*£jJw 
een manger W i j f, gc k feed met Scrmpe- vel- 
ten, waar onder heen een Woifuitkijkt» in 
haar hand was ecu $&& en Pacerqoi- 
ter. &\k.f>a&+ ntffa fa****- fe'W-U 1 ***&»"• **^2?&W. 
-. Daar ontrcnt ftond de Gierigheid , dit^^j^Jl^ 1 
was een oude, lchikc mugere Caronje van**^***** ) I 
ecnWijf, metgefcheurdevodden gekleedi^^^ | 

zijnde bbot-voecs , knoopende met beid$cp£WipL 
hunden een volIcGcU- beurs toe} b) haar ilond < j4w#**e&« j 

een maagercn Wolf. CaS"*** : 

De Eeddbeid , was een fchoone VrouWf^S^SSl j 

koftclijkgeklecd, hebbende inde ecnehand^g^JA^fc I 

tea Lan^e, in de andcre bet Beeld van F*l<%^\£2^ 

*#, op haarhoold was een KroonevanSteCT^^^^J 

ren, voor haar op een iaafel, feagen ^ l00 '^n^n^. j 

nengeld, Boeken, en Swaarden . ^fr$Ll?Zjr ' 

Den Oorloj was een gewaapend &to»$*Sj3I I 

hebbende in aeeens: hand een 13ioed-ivva:;rd ,^~~ £ \>*£ 

P 3 & 




PLATE V. PAGE 229 FROM KRINKE KESMES, 1708, SHOWING SMEEKS'S 

CORRECTIONS 



Introduction [xxvii] 



solitary existence in the wilderness. This episode 
is incorporated in the book between pages 125 
and 192 — at least, in the first three editions — 
and constitutes a pre-Robinsonade, 15 from which, 
as we shall try to show, Defoe derived much of 
the material for his ' ' Robinson. ' ' 

In the Robinson literature we find an early 
reference to "Krinke Kesmes" in 1854, in the 
work of Hettner, 16 who, however, got his data 
from the German translation of 1721, and 
thought the story was an imitation of Robinson 
Crusoe — not its forerunner. 

In 1892 August Kippenberg 17 also considered 
Krinke Kesmes a Dutch imitation of Defoe 18 and 
gave it high rank. He points out some misprints 
in Hettner 's notice, and appears erroneously to 
have thought that the episode had been printed 
in separate form. His confused and faulty 
recapitulation of the contents of the book, and 
other mistakes, show that he could not have con- 
sulted any of the Dutch editions. 19 He says that 

is We use the term • ' Bobinsonade ' ' in the sense used 
by Dr. Hermann Ullrich — a story that portrays "in- 
sular isolation from human society" (Bobinson und Bob- 
insonaden. Weimar, 1898, p. XIV) — and the prefix to 
indicate that it antedates R. C, 1719. 

is Loo. cit., Ill, 1, 323. 

17 Bobinson in Deutschland bis eur Insel Felseriburg 
(1731-43), Hannover, 1892. 

is Ibid., p. 45. 

19 He misapplies his pronouns ; says that Posos had 



[xrviii] Sjouke Gdbbes 



the description of the country, in Krinke Kesmes, 
is "very strange and full of adventure, and is 
enlivened with journeys and learned discus- 
sions"; that the life of the hero of the episode 
can well have been based on experience. He 
ends by saying: " Although short, it is written 
with intuitive creative power, moves manifestly 
quite within the frame-work of the English Rob- 
inson, to which, however, it is materially inferior 
in depth and the art of description. ' ' 20 

Under "Nachahmungen des Originals (Robin- 
sonaden) " Ullrich lists the German editions: 
Leipzig, 1721 (Pis. VI and VII) ; Delitsch, 1748 ; 
Delitsch (1751) ; Schweinfort und Leipzig, 
1776; Delitsch, 1776; and Leipzig, 1785. Be- 
neath the last named, in small type, is the state- 
ment : ■ ' Our book is only a translation or rather 
a recast of a work that appeared before De- 
foe's," and then Ullrich gives the Dutch title of 
the original edition. On the same page he 
ascribes the written notes in the Hague copy to 
the "editor." 21 No further comments on the 
Dutch story appear to have been made by Ull- 
rich. 



13 instead of 24 companions; assigns 64 pages to the 
episode; translates "Wakende Boey" by "Wakre 
Bote," &c, &c. 

20 Ibid., p. 47. 

2i hoc. cit, p. 105. 



^oUanbi We 

RORINSON CRUSOE, 



4tot 



S)te fofotttotf curieuftn Avantuwn 

HENRICH TEXELS 

lines 




Mkm, 



t 



2Be!$<r im 3a&r i6^uf torn tmte 

fannten @fibtan& *>cn fWnen<?<&iff*.<?<imc* 

M&en fld> t>erirrct, unD t)afclt>|l: aUein r in^«w# 
aritybi, 

Snrtt6rrtr^i«3a&rrmi9 

3jrt«€jnf<mifeft«if <im 6^4wntafarc3Btrfc 

feinWcn jugcbroc^t , t>ielt tclriume tau ge&ufct.rnfclwb 

abet »«ttr in «iun gd'ictlkOern ^u|i<uid4<i<6« 

fpttfflll 

SDicfc ttantofamc &c dcbcnfriffti 

tytttftt&fttef$wfc«i,unfc btin4ta»4e tabs- Anna 

1702.it] etnctl ManufcrijKcqaununiciret. 

XCttpn fetnct ungetne men Cunofoat msCcu t|t^c 
fibcrfcgt,tiftfe mttfrtubcm 2\upftcm 

Stefcfltf ©<ors Sbriftopl) SSinfecr, SudKAnMcr, 
it) tot @nni«if«rn ©offe an bcr fcfeotf a(ft« 



PLATE VI. TITLE PAGE TO THE ELHO'S STORY, GERMAN EDITION, 172J 




1M.ATK VII. FRONTISPIECE TO THE ELHO'S STORY, GERMAN EDITION, 1721 



Introduction [xxix] 



In 1899 Dr. Jan Ten Brink, 22 citing the edi- 
tion of 1708, says of it: ''There is no evidence 
apparent of anything of interest to us in this 
book." He adds, that the author gives a brief 
history of a proto-Robinson, without dreaming 
that the master hand of Defoe might fashion 
from similar material an immortal work of art ; 
gives a short synopsis of it, unsatisfactory and 
even erroneous, and by a number of mis-state- 
ments 23 affords ground for the surmise that he, 
too, in common with Kippenberg, must have been 
drawing information from a secondary source. 
He repeats the error about the notes in the 
Hague copy, which he characterizes as "effu- 
sions" and ascribes to Ten Hoorn, citing Ull- 
rich. 24 

It was Staverman in 1907 who first announced 
the real significance of the episode in Smeeks's 
little book, as a forerunner of Robinson, and al- 
though he accords it some praise, he also, in 
agreement with Kippenberg, assigns to it a sub- 
ordinate place. He says : ' ' The style is slovenly 
and dry, like that of a chronicle ; yet the descrip- 
tions are frequently given with animation and 
telling simplicity. By his naive expressions of 
joy, when he makes a useful discovery, the boy 

22 hoc. cit., pp. 439, et seq. 

23 ' ' Vischhengels droeg hij over den schouder. ' ' 

24 Loc. cit., p. 105. Cf. PL V. 



[xxx] Sjouke Gabbes 



wins our sympathy," 25 &c. He quotes a con- 
temporary opinion 26 that the book is not lacking 
in entertainment. He thinks, that the details 
recorded as elements in the story of a sojourn, on 
an uninhabited island, are so obvious and follow 
so directly from the "situation," that they must 
flow, as it were automatically, from the author 's 
pen. 

In differentiating the second edition of Krinke 
Kesmes from the first, as being of separate print- 
ings, Staverman relies on a comma on the title 
page, after ' ' Posos, ' ' and a few other misprints, 
and overlooks the difference in width of the type- 
pages. In a foot-note on page 53 he also gives 
pages 122 to 201, as those of the episode, instead 
of 125 to 192. 

Dr. G. J. Hoogewerff (1909) was the first to 
publish a critical comparison of the texts of 
Krinke Kesmes and Robinson, and a partial re- 
print of the pre-Robinson episode. He cites 
many points of coincidence, and justly claims 
that Defoe used the earlier text. 27 Hoogewerff 
goes at some length into a description of the 
Hague copy and the notes in it made in Smeeks 's 
handwriting, including some on chirurgy, and 
a poem by Smeeks to his son. A reference in 
Smeeks 's own preface to Schouten's Voyage is 

28 Loc. tit., pp. 53 et $eq. 
™Boekzaal, 1708, pp. 274-291. 
2* Loc. tit., pp. 371 et seq. 



Introduction [xxxi] 



based on facts recorded in voyages previously 
made, and described in print, which give to the 
Dutch story an air of probability 28 as Selkirk's 
experience gives to "Robinson." 

Hoogewerff touches upon the personality of 
Smeeks and says in effect that he must have been 
a peculiar man, of a character more or less 
bizarre ; 29 that he certainly possessed imagina- 
tion in large measure, and that this above all 
makes it worth while to read what he writes. 
The episode of the cabin boy is the proof of 
Smeeks 's ability to picture things to himself. 
"With a character such as this, it can not 
surprise us that he it was that conceived the 
Robinson motif and first worked it out in narra- 



28 * * Walter Schouten of Haarlem says in his Voyage 
to the East Indies; that when he was at Batavia, the 
ship, the Wakende Boey, was sent from there to the 
Southland to get the shipwrecked crew of the Goude 
Draak and bring them to Batavia, but did not find any 
of them. This demonstrable truth contributes not a little 
to our belief in the rest, and is a strong witness to the 
credibility of the Elho's singular story. The passages 
on the interior discoveries in the Southland I myself 
delivered, with my own hands, to the High and Mighty 
Dr. N. Witsen [a famous burgomaster of Amsterdam 
and author of "Nord en Ost Tartarye," Amsterdam, 
1705], as given on page 21 [of Kririke Kesmes]." Cf. 
Hoogewerff, loc. cit., p. 389. Smeeks in other parts of 
his book also refers to passages that do not concern us 
here. 

29 Ibid., p. 397. 



[xxxii] Sjouke Gabbes 



tive form. ' ' 80 Hoogewerff, not in agreement 
with Staverman, says that the merit in the nar- 
rative is not restricted to single passages, but 
that the style is uniformly smooth and sprightly ; 
the story itself is unstudied and exceedingly well 
told, least of all dry or dull. For these reasons 
alone, even without its very probable connection 
with Robinson Crusoe, the narrative should be 
of interest to us. It is as if the writer himself 
had fallen, in the episode, under the charm of 
his material, for here his style becomes markedly 
more sprightly than is the case in the book as a 
whole. The tone, too, has involuntarily become 
different, and it is due to this that the episode, 
which is far and away the best and most attrac- 
tive part of the book, comes to stand on its own 
merits. 31 

Hoogewerff also believes that Defoe knew 
Dutch and was competent to read Smeeks's book. 
The only Dutch quotation in Robinson has been 
pointed to as erroneous — "den wild zee" (R. C, 
p. 49) — but Hoogewerff says that this form of 
expression occurs regularly in ship-journals in 
the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. 32 

In the next year, 1910, through the same 
medium, S. P. L 'Honore Naber confirms and sup- 



so Ibid., p. 397. 
si Ibid., p. 386. 
32 Ibid., p. 380. 



Introductioni [xxxiii] 



plements Hoogewerff's conclusions 33 and goes 
into the sources from which Smeeks in turn de- 
rived his material, or rather some of the inci- 
dents of his voyage, which Naber links with his- 
torical events and names, and which therefore 
lend an air of probability to Smeeks 's narrative, 
as Smeeks himself claimed, and which must have 
made at least a momentary impression on his 
Dutch readers. Naber says that the description 
by the cabin boy 34 of his outfit and of all matters 

33 Loc. cit., pp. 427 et seq. 

34 Mr. Naber, in. a letter communicated to the writer, 
says in effect: 

"It is possible that a boy went astray on the coast 
of West Australia during De Vlamingh's visit (1697). 
The narrative of that voyage (cf. Historie der Sevar- 
ambes, Amsterdam, 1701) speaks of a party sent ashore, 
composed of '32 to 33' men — one man doubtful. If 
we check the deaths on board, against the ship's records 
(State Archives, The Hague), we find the name of a boy 
blotted out. He was Sjouke GaShes of Heerenveen 
(Frisia). Though he is reported to have died on board 
the ship, it is possible that he was the thirty -third per- 
son, about whom the printed story is silent. 

"There were sea-captains that kept upon the books 
the names of dead members of their crews, until the 
ships had nearly reached their destination, in order 
thereby to secure for themselves additional compensa- 
tion for victuals, and perhaps also for wages. 

"Sjouke Gabbes may thus be the Dutch prototype of 
Robinson. * ' 

We need a name for our Dutch cabin boy, and prefer 
to take one with a historical background, to that of 



[xxxiv] Sjouke Gabbes 



pertaining to seafaring are so correct that they 
must at least have been looked through by an 
expert sailor. In his own preface Smeeks had 
distinctly claimed of his book: "This is the 
work of a seaman," and Naber thinks he must 
have been a ship's surgeon before he settled at 
Zwolle. \j 

In 19&T Dr. Leon Polak published a contribu- 
tion to the subject of pre-Robinsonades in the 
Netherlands. 35 This article is in German and 
refers specially to the work of Hoogewerff, and 
of Naber ; is in agreement generally with the con- 
clusions of those writers, and corrects some 
slight mis-statements of earlier authors. Polak 
adds a few coincidences between Smeeks and 
Defoe thitherto overlooked, among them that of 
the footprints, or footprint, in the sand. He too 
falls into the error of misquoting Robinson as 
well as the Dutch boy. The Dutch boy, he says, 
made a wagon. "Robinson does not succeed in 
doing so until later (see above)." "We can find 
no mention of a wagon by Robinson. He speaks 
of a wheelbarrow (p. 85), made a wheel for his 
grindstone (p. 96), and one for use in shaping 
earthenware (p. 170). Polak interprets "bas- 
sen" (swivel-guns) as "cannon," (?) and finally, 
like Hoogewerff, credits the Dutch boy, after he 

Henrich Texel, which has been used in the German edi- 
tion of 1721 — and that, too, in spite of the anachronism, 
s* Ger. Bom. Monatsschrift, 1914, VI, pp. 304 et seq. 



Introduction [xxxv] 



had made a second palisade around his dwelling, 
with using his ladder to climb in and out ( !), as 
Kobinson had been accustomed to do from the 
beginning. 36 

Polak's opinion of the sailor-boy's narrative is 
appreciative and is expressed as follows : ' ' The 
episode is in contrast with the dry and singular 
matter of the main theme, by the vividness and 
easy flow of its style ... in the words of 
Hettner 'It does not indeed reach the poesy of 
Defoe, but has a firm hold on the real Robinson 
tone. There is no doubt that it is based on actual 
experience, and relates it smoothly, with anima- 
tion and a charming picturesqueness, and there- 
by wins our hearts. ' ' ' 

Before we proceed to examine in detail the 
episode in Krinke Kesmes, and pass final judg- 
ment on Defoe's putative indebtedness to the 
latter, let us consider a peculiarity that is quite 
prominent in, and perhaps confined to, his Rob- 
inson Crusoe, in order that we may ascertain, if 
possible, whether it be in part or altogether nat- 
ural, or artificial ; spontaneous or assumed ; the 
result of carelessness, or a literary method delib- 
erately adopted. 

Carried along in the rapid current of Robin- 
son's recital of events and mental reflections in 

aeibid., p. 307. Robinson's use of the term "can- 
non" was only figurative. Cf. infra, p. 74. 



[xxxvi] Sjouke Gabbes 



his daily life, we are apt to ascribe to exaggera- 
tion some seeming contradictions, which in a 
more serious work would at once arrest attention 
and excite comment, or in other cases, perhaps 
when we think we have detected inconsistencies, 
we criticize without due study of the context. 
Some of these cases, indeed, have already been 
widely noticed, the best known, for example, be- 
ing Robinson's assertion that he filled his 
pockets, on the wreck, with biscuit, after he had 
left his clothes on the beach. 37 But even if we 
condone instances of this kind when a belated 
explanation is given, we are none the less struck 
by the apparently unnecessary repetition 38 of 
many of Robinson's statements, especially dur- 
ing his early life on the island. His acts are first 

a* In spite of Robinson 's subsequent explanation, he 
commits here what is probably an unintentional incon- 
sistency, when he allows his clothes to "swim away," 
beyond recovery, as he evidently wishes us to infer, for 
he overlooks the fact that the tide was setting in to the 
shore, and that what little wind there was, blew in the 
same direction (p. 58). 

38 Ullrich notices this habit of repetition, terms it a 
weakness, and says it is due to the "situation" of the 
hero. (Leben und Abenteuer des Robinson Crusoe. Dr. 
Hermann Ullrich, Halle, p. IX.) Hettner says of it: 
"after the manner of uneducated people he often re- 
peats one and the same thought twice or thrice, with the 
same or with only slightly different words. (Loc. cit., 
chap. 3, p. 307.) 



Introduction [xxxvii] 



described in ordinary narrative form, and then 
repeated in the journal — sometimes more than 
once — perhaps to refresh the reader 's memory, 
but frequently to add some new detail, and 
oftener than not, in words that express or in- 
volve a contradiction of what went before. This 
repetition doubtless has its literary value, but it 
may be carried to an extreme, and result in con- 
fusion. 

When, for example, we read on one page that 
after the night which Robinson first spent in a 
tree, he found himself greatly refreshed, and 
that the weather was clear the next day (p. 54), 
and then, in an account of the same night, on a 
later page, in the journal, that "it rained all 
night," and the next "day also it continu'd rain- 
ing" (p. 82), we are at first inclined to think 
that the author's memory was at fault. 

When, again, Eobinson on one page says, not 
later than his eighth visit to the wreck, that his 
raft overset (p. 65), and in the next paragraph 
tells us that this was earlier than October 13th, 
and we find in his journal that the mishap oc- 
curred on October 20th (p. 82), we begin to 
wonder whether any part of the journal was 
cheeked against the earlier text. 

So, too, after the thunder storm, when Robin- 
son says he spent a fortnight in making "Bags 
and Boxes" (p. 70), which in the journal are 
"Chests or Boxes," and which in the latter case 



[xxxviii] Sjouke Gabbes 



took him only three days to make, we can attrib- 
ute the unimportant change in phraseology to a 
desire on Defoe's part to "vary the sound," as 
Swift recommends, but we begin to doubt 
whether there may not, after all, be method in 
the repeated discrepancy in his figures. Are 
these changes any more than extreme forms of 
the more variegated word pictures which came 
to Defoe as he got more deeply into his subject ? 
And was he too negligent or too hurried to go 
back and reconcile the earlier part of his text 
with them? 

While Robinson Crusoe, the book, was fresh in 
the public mind, it was assailed by critics 39 who 
noted many of its errors, such as the incident of 
the trowsers, the alleged want of clothing and 
weapons in Robinson's tabulation (p. 77), the 
glint from the eyes of the goat in the cave that 
was "perfectly dark" (p. 209), and others. In 
the numerous editions that were issued between 
1719 and 1722, there must have been ample op- 
portunity to correct such apparent errors as 
some of the above seem to be, but none of the 
conspicuous ones are noted in the "errata" at 
the end of Vol. I, of the first edition, nor else- 
where, then or later, so far as we know. It is 
almost inconceivable that such statements, by 

so cf. The Life and Strange Surprizing Adventures of 
Daniel DeFoe &C., by Charles Gildon. London, 1724 
(2nd Ed.). 



Introduction [xxxix] 






whomsoever made, would be suffered to remain, 
if they were accidental. They can not have been 
the result of carelessness by Defoe. Do they not 
rather indicate a premeditated plan or method? 

Beginning with slight inconsistencies — some- 
times mere exaggerations — such as the ladder 
standing always in the inside of his hedge at the 
bower (p. 180) ; the rain for twelve days so in- 
cessant that Eobinson could not "stir," and yet 
he ventured out twice (p. 120) } and the grain, 
"all devour 'd" by the rats (p. 90), we find most 
prominent and prevalent a form of modification 
of previous statements, that adds to the ideas in 
them something new, or explains away some dif- 
ficulty. 

It is in this middle ground, between the ex- 
tremes of what may be a mere exaggeration, 
understood as such, and the irreconcilable con- 
tradiction, that we think we can more clearly 
discern method on Defoe's part. Next to the 
trowsers incident, that of the grain is illumina- 
tive. Robinson first says that the barley and 
wheat which he obtained from the wreck had 
been "laid by for some Fowls which we brought 
to Sea with us," but that he found afterwards, 
that the "Rats had eaten or spoil'd it all" (p. 
57). In the journal he says he supposed the 
"corn" was provided, not for his voyage, but 
before, when the ship came from Lisbon. He 
repeats that it was "all devour 'd with [by] the 



[xl] Sjouke Gabbes 



Rats" (p. 90), but adds: "I saw nothing in the 
Bag but Husks and Dust. ' ' This supplementary 
saving clause not only modifies the positive char- 
acter of the assertion that the grain was "all 
devour 'd," but the substitution of "corn" 
(grain) makes possible the presence in the bag 
of rice also. 40 

Robinson's cave originally (p. 69) was a cel- 
lar, or in his "fancy" a kitchen (p. 70), but in 
the journal it assumed also the functions of a 
warehouse or magazine, and dining room (p. 86). 

His early references to his building operations 
are clearly of intent — not of perf ormance. 40a ' ' I 
had many Thoughts," he says, ". . . what 
kind of Dwelling to make" (p. 67) ; "I resolved 
to pitch my Tent" (p. 68) ; "after I had laid 
my Scheme for the setting up of my Tent" (p. 
69) ; and even in the journal, he marked out a 
semi-circle for his encampment, and "resolved 
to strengthen it with a Wall" (p. 82). He first 
moves all his stores into the space thus defined, 
sets up his double tent of canvas, houses under it 
his perishable goods, closes the gap in the wall, 
and, after this, proceeds to dig a cave just behind 

*o The shifting of Robinson's wreck has also given 
trouble, especially to foreign students. Cf. Hoogewerff, 
loc. tit., pp. 374 and 380. 

*o»C/. A. New Voyage Bound the World. London, 
1725. Pt. II, p. 146. 



Introduction [xli] 



his tent (p. 69). Notice the order. On a subse- 
quent page, however, he says: "I have already 
observed how I brought all my Goods into this 
Pale; ... I had no room to turn my self; 
so I set myself to enlarge my Cave" &c. (p. 78). 
Then Kobinson adds: "And now I began to 
apply myself to make such necessary things as 
I found I most wanted, particularly a Chair and 
a Table" (p. 78). "However, I made me a 
Table and a Chair, as I observ'd above, in the 
first Place" (p. 79). This description may have 
been to Defoe merely an anticipative summary 
of what he was about to describe in detail, but to 
us it brings confusion, when connected with what 
we read in the journal : "Nov. 17. This Day I 
began to dig behind my Tent into the Rock" (p. 
84) ; "Nov. 23. ... I spent eighteen Days 
entirely in widening and deepening my Cave, 
. . . During all this Time, I work'd to make 
this Room or Cave spacious enough to accom- 
modate me as a Warehouse," &c. (p. 86) ; "Jan. 
3. I began my Fence oe Wall. ' ' (The capitals 
are ours.) 

Whether this and similar contradictions are an 
extreme type of explanatory modification, which 
Defoe thought he might properly apply in this 
way, may be a matter of opinion. Perhaps the 
journal, in which most or all of them occur, was 
written long enough after the rest of the text, to 



[xlii] Sjouke Gabbes 



impair the author's remembrance of what he had 
previously stated. But here again, why was this 
not righted subsequently ? 41 

Whatever be the judgment on Defoe's incon- 
sistencies and contradictions, these afford us a 
useful background without which we might less 
easily be able to recognize the material he has 
taken from Krinke Kesmes, by the assimilation 
or distortion of which he has in places gone far 
to conceal its origin. 

Let us first give a very brief outline of the life 
of Sjouke Gabbes after he found himself left on 
the coast of the Southland, which he supposed 
to be an island of unknown size, south of the 
equator. Separated from his ship-mates, he 
passes several days in the forest, but finds edible 
fruit in abundance, and at length a stream which 
he follows down to a basin near the coast, where 
he provides himself with fish, and builds at the 
foot of a hill a temporary shelter of boughs. 

On a sand dune, near which he notices foot- 
prints, he finds a stake, and a note from his com- 
rades directing him to his sea-chest and other 
things left buried by them at two separate places 
in the sand, for his use. The food from his finds 
helps to sustain him, and, provided with tools 
and weapons from the same sources, he begins a 

"For inconsistencies in dates, cf. W. T. Hastings, 
Mod. Lan. Notes, June, 1912. 



Introduction [xliii] 



life of activity, builds huts, — a " fortress" and 
two "castles," — coats them with clay, makes a 
ladder, and crude earthen ware ; weaves baskets, 
tables, and stools ; utilizes woven rushes for cov- 
erings and even for clothes; shoots wild cattle; 
fishes; explores the country; builds an "out- 
look" on his hill; keeps a journal and is other- 
wise busily employed. 

By and by a wreck is cast on shore and it pro- 
vides him with further food and supplies and 
with a companion in the shape of a large dog. 
With a piety due to his early training, he cheer- 
fully accommodates himself to his lot, and gives 
repeated expression to his contentment. Later, 
he is thrice visited by natives; on the last two 
occasions kills many of them, and even cuts off 
the head of one. He is finally captured, how- 
ever, adopted by the tribe, and later rescued by 
the civilized inhabitants of Krinke Kesmes, in 
whose midst he was found by De Posos. He gave 
to the latter the relation of his adventures, the 
episode which is the subject of this discussion. 

To anyone familiar with his Robinson the fore- 
going outline of the cabin boy's experience will 
recall many points of resemblance to the other 
narrative. These embody the same general mo- 
tives ; isolated life of a human being on an island, 
self-dependence, ceaseless occupation with result- 
ing contentment, and an approach to a solution 



[xliv] Sjouke Oabbes 



of the problem of wringing one's existence 
single-handed from Nature. So far as the frame- 
work is concerned, both stories might have been 
conceived by the same mind. What has been 
termed the Robinson motif is fully expressed in 
the Dutch narrative, more succinctly, more 
clearly than in Robinson, and quite as effectively. 
In this larger aspect of the case it is not improb- 
able that Defoe drew inspiration from the older 
story, or possibly both authors drew from a com- 
mon source, which, unless it be Simpli- 
cissimus, is still to be discovered. When 
we come to consider details, we must re- 
member that certain human wants would 
naturally call for means of satisfying them 
through the aid of similar agents, and that a 
sense of danger would naturally be accompanied 
by reactions, identical or at least similar. As 
previous writers have happily termed it, the 
"situation" is likely to govern the action. But 
while single incidents of the same nature might 
occur to two individuals, it is not likely that a 
series of ideas would present themselves in al- 
most the same garb to two exiles accustomed to 
environments, different as are those of Dutch 
and English life, which we shall proceed to show 
occurred in the construction by each, of that 
material object, a cabin or hut. 
In our comparison of the two stories, attention 



Introduction [xlv] 



may first be more specifically called to the fact 
that there were three several occasions on which 
the Dutch boy, in common with Robinson, came 
into the possession of food and supplies. In the 
first two the source was the same for each exile : 
for the boy, deposits, partly his own property, at 
different places in the sand ; for Robinson, stores 
from his own ship, both before and after the 
shifting of the wreck. In the third case each 
party drew from a strange wreck. This may, of 
course, be merely a coincidence, but on the occa- 
sion of finding his buried sea-chest — his first 
source of supply — the boy had been directed to 
its location by a note attached to a stake, to 
which was also nailed a tin plate, which he says 
bore the name of his ship and the "skipper." 
On Robinson's first acquisition of food and sup- 
plies (p. 57), he found some "cases of Bottles 
belonging to our Skipper," and this is the only 
instance in Robinson's entire narrative where he 
uses the term "skipper." Elsewhere the word 
used is generally "Captain" — once or twice, 
"Master." This incident of the stake is derived 
by Smeeks from the journal of the Nijptangh, 
the ship from which our putative hero, Sjouke 
Gabbes, was reported missing (supra, p. 
xxxiii), 42 but there is no possibility that Defoe 
had that record in mind, in his "Cases of Bot- 



42 Cf. Naber, loc cit., pp. 435 et seq. 



[xlvi] Sjouke Gabbes 



ties," for there is no connection in time nor in 
thought between the two, as there is between 
Robinson's supplies and those of the cabin boy. 

We have been told, also, that there were three 
visitations of natives in each story, the first of 
which was bloodless. On the others there was 
warfare, and the decapitation of the savage by 
the cabin boy on the second visitation is impor- 
tant, perhaps chiefly from its position in the 
narrative, which corresponds in time exactly 
with the similar act by Friday. 

The one incident in Robinson that has been 
exploited both by its author and by illustrators, 
that has appealed to the imagination of genera- 
tions of readers, and has contributed perhaps as 
much to the fame of the book as anything else 
in it, is the finding of a footprint in the sand. 
And yet this same fact is twice briefly recorded 
in the Dutch narrative. The fact chronicled in 
a few lines in the earlier story is expanded into 
pages in the later one, and while the dramatic 
skill of the later author is preeminent, we are 
here concerned, not with a comparison of literary 
merit, so much as with the question whether 
Defoe knew Smeeks's work, and borrowed from 
it. Perhaps we should not attach too much im- 
portance to this parallel as a support to our 
argument, for a similar observation is frequent 
in early Australian voyages. However, it is one 



Introduction [xlvii] 



of many incidents common to both narratives, 
and as such is entitled to weight as contributory 
evidence. 

Passing now from statements recorded alike in 
both narratives, let us consider two examples 
where Defoe's mannerism of modification, or of 
contradiction, is quite conspicuous. Sjouke sub- 
sisted largely on fish, and says: "The basin 
furnished me with fish as I wanted it ; dried fish 
was my bread, which I ate boiled or roasted" 
(K. K., p. 148). Robinson covers the entire sub- 
ject of fish in a paragraph of seven lines, in his 
journal. In the last three lines he says: "yet 
I frequently caught Fish enough, as much as I 
cared to eat; all which I dry'd in the Sun, and 
eat them dry"! (p. 98). 

As convincing as anything, is the bird inci- 
dent. Sjouke, with a gun, goes into the bush for 
pleasure and to try if he might get a bull. He 
sees on a high tree a large bird, and shoots it. 
Then he describes its plumage in detail, and says 
of its claws that they were very thick, red, and 
curved. He and his dog lived on its tidbits while 
they lasted (K. K., p. 161). Robinson, during 
the interval in which he was engaged in storing 
his powder, went out with his gun "as well to 
divert myself, as to see if I could kill anything 
fit for food" (p. 70), and on another such occa- 
sion says : " I shot at a great Bird which I saw 



[xlviii] Sjouke Gabbes 



sitting upon a Tree on the Side of a great Wood 
. . . I took it to be a Kind of a Hawk, its 
Color and Beak resembling it, but had no Talons 
or Claws more than common, its Flesh was Car- 
rion, and fit for nothing" (p. 61). 

This incident is quoted, in part, by Hooge- 
werff 43 and very briefly noticed by Polak. 44 The 
former author, by omitting the last two items in 
the description, seems to us to miss the chief 
significance of the passage. Defoe here again is 
true to his adopted method. He states the facts 
set forth in the Dutch text, quite in agreement 
with the general setting down to the last two, 
which he quite as significantly denies, much in 
effect as if he had added — ' ' unlike the bird de- 
scribed in Krinke Kesmes. ' ' 

Sjouke 's Hut 
Before completing his first substantial hut the 
cabin boy had to make a ladder, in order to reach 
the higher parts of the wall and the roof. 45 This 
hut was round, and was provided with peep- 
holes, and a square opening in the roof with a 
lid. The hut was coated with clay, which be- 
came as firm and hard as brick. Almost imme- 

™Loc. tit., p. 376. 

**Loc. tit., p. 306. 

« Some of his commentators wrongly state that he 
used his ladder as Eobinson did his, to provide access to 
his hut. Cf. Hoogewerff, loo. tit., p. 377, who makes 
several slips, concerning Eobinson, on the same page. 



Introduction [xlix] 



diately after its completion, he built an addition 
to it, square in form, but in other respects like 
the earlier structure. These were his ' ' castles. ' ' 
Then he made a much stronger hut — a "fort- 
ress ' ' — for which he utilized the trunks of trees 
which he found growing in a circle, as if they 
had been planted by some one. For a wider view 
he resorted to his hill close by — his Outlook. 

After the first visitation of natives he pro- 
tected his door by extending two parallel hedges 
eighteen feet, one on each side of it, and closed the 
resulting passage-way with a gate. He also pro- 
vided himself with four swivel-guns from the 
wreck (K. K., p. 170). After the second visita- 
tion he cut four loop-holes through his wall, and 
around his fort planted, for two paces in width, 
stakes sharpened at the top (p. 177). 

Robinson's Habitation 

One of the essentials of Robinson's daily life, 
and closely associated with his wall and habita- 
tion, was his ladder. It was for some time his 
only means of communication, over his wall, with 
the world outside. It was mentioned in his gen- 
eral plan or outline of development (p. 68), and 
was laconically noted in the journal in the words 
"I finished my Ladder" (p. 93). 

Beginning with the ladder, the evolution of 
Robinson's "castle" or "fortress" follows close- 
ly that of the cabin boy. Before or after his wall 



[1] SjouJee Oabbes 



was finished — we are uncertain which — Robin- 
son began to excavate, behind the place selected 
for it, a cave which he later enlarged. Simul- 
taneously with this enlargement he cut a pas- 
sage-way through the rock and made a ground 
floor exit, which came out beyond the end of his 
wall and was therefore undefended. This exit 
he then used habitually, instead of his ladder — 
"and so I came in and out this Way" (p. 121). 
This was at the end of his first year. Later, for 
greater security, he closed the outer end of the 
passage with a door (p. 247). 

When he first announced the covering-in of 
his palisaded enclosure — effected at the end of 
about eighteen months — Robinson said nothing 
about any opening in the roof, possibly because 
he was then using the back exit. He brought 
up the subject, however, after Friday came, 
and characteristically supplied the omis- 
sion thus: "My first wall had now a compleat 
Roof over it . . . and at the Hole or Place 
which was left to go in or out by the Ladder, I 
had plac'd a kind of Trap-door, which if it had 
been attempted on the Outside, would not have 
open'd [sic] at all, but would have fallen down, 
and made a great Noise" (p. 247). 

For added safety in case of attack Robinson 
planted a double row of osier stakes in a semi- 
circle around his first wall, which since the ad- 



Introduction [li] 






dition of his roof had, of course, been an integral 
part of his hut or "castle," with the door as his 
usual place of egress. When he discovered the 
footprint, twelve years later, these stakes had 
become trees, and by the addition of some posts 
and earth he converted them into another wall 
or rampart, thus covering his door. In the wall 
he cut seven loop holes, and "through" them 
planted his muskets. Then, outside of this wall 
and at a distance from it, he put into the ground, 
as he affirms, 20,000 stakes of osier, which in five 
years became an impassable grove. 46 

If we have not already drawn our conclusions 
as to Defoe's abstractions from Smeeks's narra- 
tive, enough examples have been given of inci- 
dents common to both stories, to prepare us to 
realize the force of other parallels which we shall 
find noted in subsequent pages in connection 
with the full text of the cabin boy's story. 

It will be apparent that Defoe was indebted to 
the Dutch author, not' only for more of his ma- 
terial than he was to Woodes Eogers and Selkirk, 
but also that in Smeeks's episode, whatever its 



4« E. says of this grove, that he ' ' left no Avenue ' ' (p. 
191), but twelve years later he affirms that the grove 
■was "become a little Wood, and so thick, that it was 
unpassable in any Part of it, but at that one Side, where 
I had reserv'd my little winding Passage into it" (p. 
306. Cf. K. K., p. 177) . 



[lii] 



Sjouke Gabbes 



limitations, we have the earlier conception of the 
so-called Robinson motif, told in a natural, 
simple, and sympathetic way, which retains our 
interest from beginning to end, and in places 
even awakens our emotions. 



THE NARRATIVE OF SJOUKE GAB- 

BES, COMPARED WITH THAT OF 

ROBINSON CRUSOE 



[Page 
numbers 
refer to 
Krinke 
Kesmes] 
(125) 

Narrator 
reaches 

Batavia. 



Sails on 
the Wa- 
kende 
Boey to 
the South- 
land. 



To rescue 
survivors 
of the 
Goude 
Draak. 



KRINKE KESMES 

I was a lad of twelve years 
and could read and write 
when I arrived at Batavia as 
cabin boy in the Company's * 
service. This was in the year 
1655. After I had been there 
three months I was one day 
ordered to repair with my 
sea-chest the next morning on 
board the ship, the Wakende 
Boey, which was to sail to the 
Southland to rescue the cast- 
aways of the ship, the Goude 
Draak, which had been lost 
there, and bring them to Ba- 
tavia. 

On our arrival off the 
Southland we found the 
wreck of the ship, and fired 



ROBINSON 
CRUSOE 

[Quotations are 
from the third edi- 
tion of W. Taylor, 
London, 1719, 

"lion type," i.e., 
the issue of that 
edition in which 
the tail-piece, p. 
364, shows a lion 
— not a phoenix. 

References are 
to any of the Tay- 
lor editions, 1719- 
1722. Volume I 
in those editions 
has 364 pages, so 
that any reference 
may be located in 
any other un- 
abridged edition by 
using the propor- 
tion 



i The Dutch East India Company. 






Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Barren 
prospect. 



(126) 



Party set 
ashore. 

Footprints 

(cy. 

p. xlvi). 



three cannon shots to signal 
our presence, but there was 
no sign of anyone upon the 
strand. We therefore rowed 
to the shore with the long 
boat and the shallop to search 
for survivors from the lost 
ship, but it was all to no pur- 
pose; we found not a living 
person nor an animal, but 
only a naked sea coast, and a 
parched land full of thorns 
and thickets. 

Having searched on land 
one day in vain, on the next 
we sailed along the coast for 
some hours, firing a cannon- 
shot every bell. We set men 
on shore to seek again, who 
did not find anyone, although 
they saw some tracks of bare 
feet in the sand. 

The third day, we sailed 
again to the wreck. While 
we were riding at anchor a 
short distance from it, the 
boat was ordered to make an 
examination along the strand, 
in the hope that she might 



364 whole no. of 

pages 
where "a" is the 
page given in our 
reference, and 
"x" the corre- 
sponding page in 
the other edition.] 



P. 61. "I found al- 
so that the Island 
I was in was bar- 
ren," etc 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



Examina- 
tion of 
coast. 



Party of 
twelve sent 
inland. 



Refresh- 
ment, i.e., 
fresh food 
or water. 



(127) 



find the missing crew of the 
Goude Draak; she was pro- 
vided with water, food and 
drink for several days, and 
proceeded from the ship 
along the coast. Of her re- 
turn I know not, nor whether 
she found the crew. 

Right after the departure 
of the long boat the shallop 
was sent ashore with twelve 
men to renew the search. I 
went along as cabin boy, 
eager also to get on land 
again, in the hope of finding 
something fresh, for I had 
been, as it were, shut up in 
the ship for a considerable 
time without any change of 
food. Under such circum- 
stances everybody longs for 
land and fresh food or fresh 
water. 

Boylike, I was glad enough 
at having come ashore with 
the party, and I gave little 
heed to the search for the 
crew of the Goude Draak; I 
was there for refreshment. 



II. 255. "going 
often on Shore for 
Refreshment. ' ' 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



On landing, we went into the 
interior, at a guess perhaps a 
three hours' walk, when we 
came to a wood. Here, my 
only thought was to look for 
fresh water or fruit. Like a 
boy, I quietly withdrew from 
my party without once think- 
ing, when I was in the wood, 
how I should get out of it 
again. Walking in the rear 
wanders °^ * ne others, I screened my- 
towards self behind a bit of thicket 
interior. an( * proceeded thus deeper in- 
to the forest, glad that our 
people were out of my sight. 
I lighted my pipe and smoked 
as I went, but after about an 
hour's search, finding no fruit 
nor anything else to eat or 
drink, I thought I would turn 
back and look for our party 
or the strand. I walked prob- 
ably two hours in an effort to 
get out of the forest, but the 
further I walked the more I 
went astray. I called, I 
shouted, I screamed until I 

Lost in 

the forest, was hoarse. I was filled with 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



(128) 



Dejection 
and fright. 



fear and terror, and my anxi- 
ety was inexpressible. Now, 
for the first time, I realized 
that I was only a child and 
had done a childish act, which 
produced in me the most pain- 
ful repentance. What should 
I do ? I was tired from walk- 
ing, hoarse from screaming, 
disheartened and dejected. I 
threw myself on to the ground 
under a tree, sobbing, moan- 
ing, and praying God that he 
would help me. Evening 
came and I fell asleep from 
weariness. When I awoke, I 
was thoroughly cold, and the 
darkness aroused in me such 
fear and terror that my hair 
stood on end, I trembled like 
a leaf, and the creaking of the 
trees, as well as the soughing 
of the wind, frightened me 
every instant. My disturbed 
spirit was mortally oppressed, 
so much so indeed, that no one 
that has not been in the most 
terrifying danger of death 
can know, comprehend, or 



80. [E. says that if 
he had kept a jour- 
nal of the events 
of the day he was 
cast on shore, he] 
' ' must have said 
thus: . . . After I 
got to Shore . . . 
I ran about . . . 
wringing my hands, 
and beating my 
Head and Face, 
exclaiming at my 
Misery and crying 
out, I was undone, 
undone, till tir 'd 
and faint, I was 
fore'd to lye down 
on the Ground to 
repose, but durst 
not sleep for fear 
of being de- 
vour 'd. ' ' 

[Notice the nega- 
tion.] 



48. It is not easy 
for anyone, who 
has not been in the 
like Condition, to 
describe or con- 
ceive the Conster- 
nation of Men in 



6 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



lioni. 



even think it. I groaned in- 
wardly to God for help until 
day began to break, which a 
good deal relieved me. I got 
up, and did not know in 
which direction to go, but 
walked up and down to get 
warm. On account of the 
uito<po«- C old I thrust my hands into 
my pockets, where to my 
great joy I felt my knife, to- 
bacco box, steel, tinder-box, 
and a rusk. Thrusting my 
hand still further down, I 
found a little ball of string 
with some hooks, which a 
sailor had lent me, so that I 
might do some fishing, if I 
remained on the strand. This 
was now the extent of my 
riches; for my ship clothes 
were not worth much, as 
every seaman knows what a 
cabin boy wears on board. 

I began to walk again in 
order to get out of the forest, 
constantly exclaiming, "Oh, 
Lord! help me!" I wished a 
thousand times that I might 



such Circumstan- 
ces; [This was said 
during the storm, 
just before R. was 
cast on shore.] 



54. "I had noth- 
ing about me but 
a Knife, a Tobac- 
co-pipe, and a lit- 
tle Tobacco in a 
Box; this was all 
my Provision." 
[Nowhere In his 
narrative does E. 
speak of possess- 
ing the means to 
make fire, nor of 
smoking, although 
he makes a pipe 
and finds tobacco 
growing on the is- 
land.] 



(129) 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



Finds 
water. 



come to a mountain, from 
which I could discover the 
sea, or to a river that should 
lead me to the sea; but the 
more I sought, the more I 
went astray, and the thought 
of eating or drinking never 
once entered my mind. I 
formed a resolution to keep 
going straight ahead, whither- 
soever God should lead me, 
and going on, I came towards 
evening, a little before sunset, 
to a marshy pool. The sight 
of it made me think that I 
wanted a drink, but on tast- 
ing of the water I found it to 
be somewhat brackish, so with 
my hands I dug a hole a little 
way from it, into which clear 
water soon trickled; of this I 
drank and felt refreshed. The 
water in the pool was dreggy, 
brown and reddish, like the 
water of a marsh, or water 
with decayed leaves in it. 
There I sat groaning and cry- 
ing again; I could not stop 
my dismal weeping. I sighed 



54. "I walk'd 
about a Furlong 
from the Shore to 
see if I could find 
any fresh Water to 
drink, which I did, 
to my great Joy; 
... I went to the 
Tree . . . , and hav- 
ing cut me a short 
Stick, like a Trun- 
cheon, for my De- 
fence, I took up 
my Lodging, and 
having been exces- 
sively f atigu 'd, I 
fell fast asleep, 
and slept as com- 
fortably as, I be- 
lieve, few could 
have done in my 
Condition, and 
found myself the 



B 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



(ISO) 



Says a 
praytr. 



and sighed, saying, "Alas! 
poor boy that I am! Oh! 
what shall I do 1 Where shall 
I go? Oh, God! help me!" 

I ate half of my rusk, 2 
smoked half a pipe and took 
another drink from my hole; 
all this refreshed me a good 
deal. I next considered what 
I should do in such extreme 
need. Human aid was lack- 
ing, so out of necessity I went 
to God. I loosened my stock- 
ings, fell on my bare knees, 
and called to God for help. I 
said the evening prayer and 
the pater noster. I even be- 
came so affected through 
praying, that I sank down 
and grew faint and almost 
unconscious. This feeling 
lasted until dark, when being 
tired I lay down and cried 
myself to sleep. I slept 
through the whole night and 
awoke after the sun was up; 
the sunshine cheered me. 

'"Beschuit," sometimes ' ' Bischuit. ' ' Bobinson 
uses "Busk," "Bisket," ' « Bisket-cake, ' ' Cf. infra., 
p. 91. 



most refresh 'd 
with it, that I think 
I ever was on such 
an Occasion. 

When I wak'd it 
was broad Day, the 
Weather clear, ' ' 
etc. [Cf. with 
statement in the 
journal, pp. 81, 82, 
where B, says it 
rained all night 
and continued rain- 
ing the next day. 
B. apparently had 
no further use for 
his truncheon than 
up in the tree, for 
he does not men- 
tion it again.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



Second 
day. 



Cheerful 
reflections. 



Invisible 
agency. 



Marks 
trees. 



Makes 

wooden 

hatchet. 

Wooden 
shovel. 



I now began to think about 
my preservation. I was sit- 
ting by my water-hole and re- 
joicing over the fresh water 
in it, for I realized that this 
was far and away better than 
the foul water on the ship. 
Just then it seemed to me as 
if I were being pushed. I 
looked around, and although 
I did not see anyone, deeper 
in the wood I noticed a very 
tall tree, which was very 
prominent because it was so 
thick. I got up and went 
towards it, and when I 
reached it God gave me an in- 
spiration to mark a number 
of trees so that I should not 
lose my water supply. I took 
out my knife and peeled off a 
little of the bark; with my 
knife I then made a wooden 
hatchet for this work, in order 
to spare the knife as much as 
possible. I made also a small 
wooden shovel, and took a 
stout bough which I sharp- 
ened at the small end, and 



73. "Then it oc- 
curred to me again, 
how well I was 
furnish 'd for my 
Subsistance, ' ' etc. 

76. "I began to 
comfort myself as 
well as I could, 
and to set the 
Good against the 
Evil," etc. 
[R. takes up this 
theme repeatedly. 
Cf. pp. 72, 73, 76, 
132, 153, 164, 195, 
197.] 



96. "I had . . . 
Hatchets . . . but 
with much chop- 
ing and cutting 
knotty hard Wood, 
they were all full 
of Notches and 
dull," etc. 



10 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



(181) 

Invisible 

agency 

again. 



cinb-apear. w hj c h had a thick knob at the 
other, — this served me for a 
weapon. 

I was becoming more and 
more assured and under this 
tree, for [as I have said] it 
was pretty tall, I began to 
build a hut of boughs. Dur- 
ing my work the sensation 
again came over me, that I 
was being pushed. I looked 
around, but again I saw no- 
body; but in the distance, I 
noticed just such another big 
tree. Letting the unfinished 
hut wait, I went to this tree, 
and having barked it on sev- 
eral sides, I went on to an- 
other that stood still further 
away, and so continuing, I 
went in all probably a dis- 
tance of an hour or an hour 
and a half from the pool. 

I continued in my quest, 
and that too in a direct line, 
so as in time to get out of this 
lonely forest, and while I was 

Fin<u walking I found an apple! 

apple*. Lord! How happy I was. I 



Continues 
to blaze a 
line. 



85. [R. Makes 
a "Shovel or 
Spade."] 

54. Truncheon. . . 
[Cf. swpra., p. 7] 



223. ' ' I thought 
the Impression was 
so strong upon my 
Mind, that it 
could not be re- 
sisted, that it must 
come from some 
invisible Direc- 
tion," etc. 

181. "I stood 
like one Thunder- 
struck, or as if I 
had seen an Ap- 
parition ; I lis- 
ten 'd, I look'd 
round me, I could 
hear nothing, nor 
see any Thing, ' ' 
etc. 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



11 



Makes a 
storage pit 
for his 
apples. 



(132) 
Finishes 
temporary 
hut. 



looked up and saw that I was 
under a wild apple-tree. 
Throwing from me my club- 
spear and shovel, I climbed 
up the tree with great joy, ate 
my bellyful of apples, and 
picked so many — which I 
threw into the grass under the 
tree — that on coming down I 
filled my hat and both stock- 
ings, and still left some on the 
ground. 

I retraced my way from 
tree to tree by the blazes I 
had made, and on reaching 
my first thick tree, which 
stood on a kind of hillock, I 
dug a hole, the bottom of 
which I lined with leaves and 
on these I laid my apples. I 
covered the apples in turn 
with leaves, and after I had 
thrown sand over the latter, I 
possessed a storage pit. 3 I 
then stuck some of my boughs 
into the ground, weaving 
them together a little at the 

probably the 



54. [Notice that E. 
took his club up 
into the tree with 
him.] 



225. "a. little 
rising bit of 
Ground." 



s^Mod-hol," 
house. ' ' 



61. "What to do 
with myself at 
Night I knew not, 
nor indeed where 
to rest. . . . How- 
ever, as well as I 
could, 1 barricado 'd 

equivalent of ' ' root- 



12 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



top, and made up my mind 
that what shelter they did not 
afford, the sky must. 



I walked back and forth be- 
tween my water and my hut, 
in order that while walking I 
might be thinking out what I 
should do; my dejection and 
anxiety were growing less and 
less. 



Afterwards, while I sat in 

my hut eating an apple, I 

mused; "Dear me! what is 
MonUsa. man > s life! How one wiu 

on the use- 

lessneu ot wander from country to coun- 
*° ld - try in quest of merchandise 

and money! I have nothing 
now but water and apples, 
and yet I am quite contented, 
if I can get more of them. 
Even if I could exchange 



myself round with 
the Chests and 
Boards that I had 
brought on Shore, 
and made a kind 
of a Hut for that 
Night 's Lodging. 
[B's second night 
on shore.] 

53. "After I had 
solac 'd my Mind 
with the comfort- 
able Part of my 
Condition, I began 
to look round me 
to see what kind 
of Place I was 
in, and what was 
next to be done." 
[Cf. also p. 95.] 
66. "I smil'd to 
myself at the 
Sight of this 
Money. O Drug ! 
said I aloud, what 
art thou good fori 
Thou art not worth 
to me, no not the 
taking off of the 
Ground, one of 
those Knives is 
worth all this 
Heap," etc. [Cf. 
also, pp. 152, 288.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



13 



Second 
night. 



Third day. 



(133) 



these for gold, I would not 
think of doing so. 

When evening came I said 
my prayers and lay down in 
my hut on some boughs and 
leaves, and slept much more 
peacefully than I did the 
night before. On awaking 
in the morning I began to 
think more composedly about 
my preservation, indeed, just 
as I would if I knew I should 
have to live to the end of my 
days in the wilderness, which 
thought, because of my great 
dejection and anxiety I had 
not been able previously to 
entertain. 

I said to myself that I 
would first take a drink, then 
go to my apple tree and stow 
away the apples that still lay 
under it; then continue to 
blaze or to bark trees, as I had 
begun, in a straight line, in 
order by this means finally to 
get out of the forest, and to 
take note of all fruit trees 



95. "I began to be 
more compos 'd ; 
and now to sup- 
port my Spirits, 
"which indeed want- 
ed it very much, I 
went to my little 
Store, and took a 
small Sup of 
Eum." 

117. . . . "re- 
solv 'd to come 
again, and bring a 
Bag or Sack, or 
what I could make, 
to carry the rest 
Home." [Cf. in- 
fra.] 



14 



Narrative of Sjouke Gables 



8ecorM 
the real of 
his apples. 



Finds a 
rivulet and 
more fruit. 



Comes to a 
mountain. 



that I might find while I was 
doing it. So said, so done. 

Armed with my club-spear, 
I betook myself to my apple 
tree. On reaching it, I filled 
my pockets with the apples 
that lay under it, and contin- 
uing straight on, I peeled 
trees at such distances apart 
that I could easily see from 
each to the next one. Now 
and then I found fruit trees 
and marked them specially, 
until after some time I had 
advanced so far that I came 
to a small fresh rivulet near 
which there were fruit trees, 
both different from, and in 
greater number than, those I 
had seen before, and none of 
which I knew, but trusting in 
God, I ate from them, and 
their fruits agreed with me. 

Now I forgot my storage- 
pit, pool and apple tree. I 
followed the river which after 
some time led me out of the 
forest to a mountain, at the 



59. "I at length 
found myself in 
the Mouth of a 
little River, with 
Land on both 
Sides, and a strong 
Current or Tide 
running up . . . 
At length I spy'd 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 15 



Finds a 
basin of 
brackish 
water. 



Catches 
fish. 
(134) 



foot of which there was a 
great basin of brackish water 
into which this river dis- 
charged, and the basin in turn 
discharged through a small 
depression into the sea, as I 
found later. 

While I was resting near 
this basin, I saw a fish jump, 
so I got out my hook and line, 
and took them with my club- 
spear down to the water. Put- 
ting a piece of apple on the 
hook, at once I caught a good 
perch, which I dressed, and 
baiting my hook with its en- 
trails, I caught five or six 
more fine ones. These, after I 
had dressed them, I roasted 

[It should be noted that S's and R's examinations 
of their resp. brooks, were, from the circumstances of the 
two cases, in opposite directions. Each brook headed in 
an area where fruit abounded, and emptied into a cove or 
basin near where the exiles respectively made their 
abodes. R. mentions several hills from which he made 
observations, casual or frequent. Of these, one was 
three miles from his habitation, near the W. end of the 
island. Cf. 200, 201, 205, and 216. Another was above 
his cave. Cf. 67, 93-5, 215, 219, 238, 240, 245, 274, 296, 
312.] 



a little Cove on the 
right Shore of the 
Creek." 

115. "I went up 
the Creek ... I 
found after I came 
about two Miles 
up, that the Tide 
did not flow any 
higher, and that it 
was no more than 
a little Brook of 
running water. . . 

116. I went up the 
same Way again, 
... I found the 
Brook, . . . the 
Country became 
more woody than 
before : in this 
Part I found dif- 
ferent Fruits." 



16 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



IbfcM 

tinder. 



Climbs up 
the moun- 
tain. 



Reaches 
the sea 
shore. 



on wooden spits, and they 
tasted sweet and good. 

My supply of tinder was 
scant, so I tore a sleeve from 
my shirt, set fire to it, and ex- 
tinguished the fire between 
my two shoes ; now my tinder- 
box was full again, and I was 
prepared for anything. Hav- 
ing had plenty to eat and 
drink, I climbed up the moun- 
tain, from whose top I could 
discern the sea, by my guess 
a good hour's walk distant; 
this mountain was only a high 
hill, standing alone in the flat 
land. 

I had had plenty to eat, as 
I have said, and I walked 
towards the sea in the hope 
that our ship or people were 
still there, but found no one. 
While thus. walking along the 
strand, I looked back continu- 
ally, so that the mountain 
should not get out of my 
sight. On the way I thought 
I saw a mast behind a dune, 



211. ' ' provided 
with Candles, and 
a Tinder - box, ' ' 
etc. 

[R. nowhere speaks 
of a steel nor of a 
flint, but must 
have had the lat- 
ter on his mus- 
kets.] 

80. ' ' Some Days 
after this, and af- 
ter I had been on 
board the Ship, 
and got all that I 
could out of her, 
yet I could not 
forbear getting up 
to the Top of a 
little Mountain, 
and looking out to 
Sea in hopes of 
seeing a Ship. ' ' 
[Not positively 
identifiable with 
either of the hills 
above stated. Note, 
that E. did not use 
a spy-glass on this 
occasion, although 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



17 



with its top sticking out 
above. I thought also that I 
Footprints, saw footprints, 4 but these 
again disappeared. 



six pages back he 
had recorded the 
finding of some. 
The next reference 
to them is on p. 
194, and there as 
here, B. strains his 
eyes, trying to dis- 
tinguish objects 
far out at sea. Can 
the reference to 
"Perspectives" on 
p. 74 have been a 
late insertion in 
his text? See p. 
82, infra.] 
181. "I was ex- 
ceedingly surpriz'd 
with the Print of 
a Man 's naked 
Foot on the 
Shore." 

187. "Heartning 
myself therefore 
with the Belief 
that this was noth- 
ing but the Print 
of one of my own 
Feet." [B evi- 
dently went bare- 
footed.] 

* In the first reference to footprints, on p. 2, these 
were described as "naked." 



18 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



When I reached the dune I 
saw an upright stake to which 
was nailed a tin plate, and on 
this were the names of our 
skipper 5 and the ship on 
(135) which I had come. This dis- 
turbed me anew, and yet this 
stake or pole and plate were 
to me, as it were, almost like 
comrades; I was a child, and 
with tears in my eyes, I kissed 
the stake several times. 

I sat down with my back 
towards the stake, resting my 
chin on my hand, and looked 
sorrowfully out to sea. I got 
up again, walked up and 
down past the stake, and 
meanwhile read what was on 
the plate. I resolved to dig 
the stake loose with my hands, 
for it was embedded only in 
dune-sand, and I wanted to 
get the nails out of it. With 
this thought I stepped behind 
it to examine it, and then 

6 • ' Schipper, ' ' the ordinary term in Dutch for master 
of a ship. 



57. "Cases of Bot- 
tles belonging to 
our Skipper." 
[This was on E's 
first visit to the 
wreck of his ship, 
which corresponds 
in time with the 
cabinboy's first 
find, and seems to 
be the only pas- 
sage in either of 
his first two vol- 
umes, in which R. 
uses the term 
' ' skipper ' ' ; all 
other references 
are to "Captain," 
or "Master." Cf. 
supra, Introd. p. 
xlv, and R. C. 
pp. 11 and 46-49.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 19 



only, as I was looking at the 
nails and the stake from be- 
hind, I became aware of a 
Finds a piece of paper and a little tin 
not© nailed pi a te over it which were 
nailed to the stake on that 
side. I found written on the 
paper these words : ' ' Boy, dig 
behind this stake. ' ' This dis- 
turbed me still more than the 
stake had at first. A cold 
shiver ran through my limbs, 
my hair stood on end, and I 
became oppressed and filled 
with dread. I trembled and 
knew not why. I set myself 
down again against the stake, 
until I should have become 
composed. Then I took my 
club-spear and began to probe 
with it in the sand and found 
something hard about a 
fathom behind the stake. I 
Digs his fell to scratching in the sand 

ship-chest ..v i t ,-i t 

out of the Wltn m y nan ds until I came 

sand. to something like a board, and 

(136) working down still further, I 

found that it was my ship- 



20 Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 

chest. I cried, ' ' Oh, gracious 
God ! I thank Thee, oh Lord ! 
Help me henceforward, I be- 
seech !" I fairly shouted for 
joy and wept while I was 
working the chest out. A tar- 
paulin lay over the top of it, 
and a rag was wrapped 
around the key as it stuck in 
the lock, so that the sand 
should not injure the latter. 

I unlocked my chest with 
great joy and found in it the 
following, in a letter: "Boy, 
inasmuch as after nine 6 days ' 
searching and waiting we 
have been able to find neither 
the crew of the Goude Brook 
nor you, we have decided to 
depart (for the anchorage is 
bad on this coast) but first to 
bury at this place your chest 
and things, in order that they 
may be of use to you if you 

• The chronology is faulty. On the third day of 
their presence off the coast the lad went astray, and it 
was apparently on the fourth day from that time — or 
the seventh day in all — that he found this note. 



Compared uAth Robinson Crusoe 



21 



Finds in it 
clothing, 
shoes, to- 
bacco, 

(137) 
pipes, tin 
cups, 

spoons and 
knives, 
shoe-laces, 
needles 
and yarn, 
combs, 
arrack, 



should chance to come here. 
Just above, on this little dune, 
there has been driven into the 
sand a small stake, under 
which are buried some other 
necessaries for you. Good- 
bye." 

I fell on my knees, thanked 
God for His goodness and 
prayed for the safe journey 
of my skipper and the ship. 
Then I got up, filled my pipe 
to the brim, 7 since now I 
could afford it, and looked 
through my chest in which I 
found the following articles: 

3 shirts, 2 linen under- 
shirts, 2 pairs of linen draw- 
ers, 4 neckcloths, 2 pairs of 
stockings, 1 pair of shoes, 1 
pair of breeches and a doub- 
let, of broadcloth, this being 
my shore suit, 1 English cap, 
about a pound of tobacco, 11 
pipes, 1 tin cup, 2 tin spoons, 
3 knives, 8 to 10 shoe-laces, 

i Notice the contrast with the 
first day, supra, p. 8. 



57. [R., finds among 
other things in the 
ship ; clothing, 

rack, knives, forks, 
pens, ink, paper, 
bibles and a pray- 
er book, besides 
articles not in S. 's 
chest.] 

170. "there were 
Pipes in the Ship, 
but I forgot them 

boy's action on his 



22 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



paper, 
pens, ink, 
and a 
psalm- 
book. 



some needles and thread, 2 
combs, 1 gallon-bottle of 
rack, 8 12 sheets of paper, 
some pens and ink, 1 psalm- 
book. 



Takes a I drank a dram after my 

pipe, like a lord ! Now I be- 
came easy in my mind and 
cheerful again. I determined 
to camp through the coming 

Fourth da; night by this stake, to protect 
my property, for there was 
neither man nor beast that 
8 Arrack. 



at first, not know- 
ing that there was 
Tobacco in the Is- 
land ; and after- 
wards, when I 
search 'd the Ship 
again, I could not 
come at any Pipes 
at all." 

[R. last visited the 
wreck on June 15, 
and first discover- 
ed tobacco a month 
later 1 Pp. 100, 
115.] 

126. ' ' I would fain 
have had ... a 
Tobacco-Pipe. [B. 
omits to account 
for the one he had 
when he came on 
shore.] 

56. [R. took his 
' ' large Dram ' ' af- 
ter he first came 
on board the wreck 
and was in posses- 
sion of food and 
other necessaries, 
but his alleged rea- 
son therefor was 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



23 



should rob me! Childish 
fancy ! 

After some deliberation, I 
went up on to the dune, and 
found the small stake; I 
probed near it with my spear ; 
at two feet in depth there was 
something hard. I again fell 
to scratching, but was scarce- 
ly one foot in the ground 
when I found a shovel. 
Zounds! how glad I was! I 
proceeded to dig with it ; this 
made better speed than 
scratching with my fingers. I 
soon uncovered a board and 
under it my hammock, which 
also was wrapped in a fine 
tarpaulin. When I got it out 
on top, on opening it I found 
the following note : 

"Boy, since you may pos- 
sibly have to spend your life 
here, we have agreed to leave 
these things for you. The 
Master 9 gives you his burn- 
ing-glass so that you can 

» In Dutch, "Meester" is a title given to a surgeon. 



to "spirit me for 
what was before 
me," — the landing 
of his find. The 
two drinks corre- 
spond in point of 
time — the acqui- 
sition of supplies.] 
63. " I piled all the 
empty Chests and 
Casks up in a Cir- 
cle round the Tent, 
to fortify it from 
any sudden At- 
tempt, either from 
Man or Beast. ' ' 
[This was the 
third night. See 
similar expressions 
on pp. 68, 82 and 
95.] 



24 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



(138) 



Finds 
other 
utensils 
and sup- 
plies 
buried. 

Cutlass. 



kindle a fire even without tin- 
der; besides, a piece of sul- 
phur for matches. Good- 
bye!" 

I hastened to examine what 
they had left, and found the 
following articles : 1 board, 1 
excellent tarpaulin, my ham- 
mock, straw bed, coverlet, pil- 
low, 1 pillowcase, 1 axe, 1 
short-gun, 2 cases of powder, 
100 bullets, 1 piece of sheet 
lead, 1 ship-cutlass with its 
belt, 1 keg of brandy, 2 gal- 
lon bottles of Spanish wine, 
wine, 100 rusks, 1 small cop- 
per pan that would hold a 
"mingelen," 10 1 Cologne pot 
of tobacco, another roll of the 
latter weighing probably 2 to 
3 pounds, 1 bladderful of 
powder, another case of bul- 
lets, 2 cord fish nets, 1 box of 
hooks, 12 flints, 1 small pack- 
age of matches, 1 package of 
pens, 1 pen-knife, 2 quires of 
paper, 1 leaden inkpot, with 

io A "mingel" = 1.2 litres, 
litres. 



[Robinson saves 
from the wreck, 
among other 
things, the follow- 
ing: 

Boards, p. 57. 
Tarpaulin, p. 69. 
Hammock, p. 62. 
Bed and bedding, 
p. 63. 

Axe, p. 58. 
Clothing, pp. 58, 
62. 

Guns and Ammu- 
nition, p. 58. 
Old rusty swords, 
p. 58. 

Bread (biscuit), 
pp. 57, 64. 
Cases of bottles 
("Cordial Wa- 
ters"), p. 57. 
Barrel of fine 
flower, p. 64. 
Pens, ink, and pa- 
per, p. 74. 
Bible, p. 74. 

Hoogewerff says 2 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



25 



(139) 



one small can of ink, the New 
Testament, the Journey of 
W. Y. Bontekoe, and that of 
P. van den Broeke; also a 
round hand-glass in a tin box. 



Now I changed my inten- 
tion of staying by the stake. 
I had made my way from the 
mountain or hill to this point 
in two courses at right angles 
to each other; straight across 
was much nearer, so I thought 
I would go back that way. 

I emptied my chest, and re- 
filled it with rusks, gun-pow- 
der, tobacco, paper, books, etc. 
I put on me three shirts with 
an additional under-garment 
and hung the cutlass at my 
side, carried the axe and 



Books, p. 75. 
Boll of sheet lead 
was too heavy to 
get over the Ship's 
side, p. 62.] 

197. "I furbish 'd 
up one of the 
great Cutlashes, 
that I had out of 
the Ship, and made 
me a Belt to put 
it on also." 
[Cf. pp. 138, 216, 
242, 274, 298 and 
300, where this 
weapon is usually 
referred to as 
"naked." See 
note infra, p. 96] 
130. [B. also "took 
another Way to 
come back."] 
57. "I first got 
three of the Sea- 
mens Chests, 
which I had brok- 
en open and emp- 
ty 'd, . . . the first 
of these I filPd 
with," etc [B. 
refills a chest, puts 
on newly found 
clothing, and re- 






26 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Disposes 
of his 
things at 
temporary 
resting 
place. 



Hangs his 
hammock 
in the 
open. 



shovel on my shoulders, and 
two bottles by a cord around 
my neck. Thus loaded I went 
to my river, and because the 
weather was warm I naturally 
perspired not a little, from 
which I recovered after a re- 
freshing drink. Meantime, 
while resting, I was thinking 
what I should do with my 
things. I dug a large hole on 
high ground, lined it on the 
underside with leaves, over 
which I laid boughs, and on 
these I stowed my things and 
covered them in their turn 
with boughs and green turf. 
In the afternoon I fetched my 
hammock, the gun and a blad- 
der of gun-powder, and car- 
ried bullets and rusks in my 
pocket. 

When I came to the river I 
stuck into the ground on the 
high place by my pit, four 
poles, and suspended my ham- 
mock from them. I made an- 
other trip and fetched the tar- 
paulin, a bottle of rack, the 



cords the fact that 
the weather was 
warm.] 



83. [According to 
the Journal, on 
Nov. It] "I set 
up my Tent under 
a Eock, and lay 
there for the first 
Night, making it 
as large as I could 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



27 



Fourth 
night. 



Now a 
rich man. 



fish net, a hook, and some 
bullets. 

I got into my hammock and 
slept peacefully until day 
came. On this day I fetched 
the rest of my things to the 
river ; now I was a rich man ! 
I took pen, ink and paper 

and wrote down the foregoing 
[account]. I said a prayer 
and sang a psalm as well as I 
could. 



I now had to seek a good 



Builds 
tubstantial 

hut on a place lor my hut. Looking 
hiii near about me, I noticed not far 

river. 

(140) away a fine high and green 



with Stakes driving 
in to swing my 
Hammock upon. ' ' 
64. "I had the 
biggest Magazine 
of all Kinds now 
that ever were laid 
up, I believe, for 
one Man." 
[Fourth day. Cf. 
also, pp. 66, 73.] 
74. "I got several 
things . . . which 
I omitted setting 
down before; as in 
particular, Pens, 
Ink, and Paper 
. . . [75] that 
while my Ink last- 
ed, I kept things 
very exact ; ' ' etc 
[Said after his 
last visit to 
wreck.] 
80. [Notice 
R. did not begin 
his journal until 
he was in a meas- 
ure settled.] 
60. "My 
Work was to 
the Country, 
seek a proper 
Place for my Hab- 



the 



that 



next- 
view 
and 



28 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Examines 
the sur- 
rounding 
country. 



hill close by the river. I went 
to it and looked it over, and 
was well pleased. Having 
fetched my axe and shovel, I 
cut as many large and small 
boughs as would be enough 
for the space I needed. I 
thrust these into the ground 
or dug holes for them. Then 
I inter-twined the boughs at 
the top and around the sides, 
as closely together as possible, 
and in a short time I had 
made a hut that was tight. 
After I had completed it thus 
far, I drew the line which I 
had set in the salt basin, and 
on which I now found several 
perch. I cooked some of them 
in my little pan. After I had 
had plenty to eat and a cool 
drink, I fetched my hammock 
into the hut and having hung 
it securely, I also brought in 
my little bed and the most of 
my other things. 

And now I thought I would 
take a walk around this side 
of the basin, to see what it 



itation, and where 
to stow my Goods 
to secure them, ' ' 
etc. 

67. "In search of 
a Place proper for 
this [a permanent 
habitation] y f ; I 
found a little Plain 
on the side of a 
rising Hill," etc 

82. [Journal en- 
try.] "I walk'd 
about the Shore 
almost all Day to 
find out a Place to 
fix my Habitation 
. . I fix'd upon a 
proper place under 
a Rock." 
[This was after 
R. 's last visit to 
the wreck.] 



114. "Having now 
secur'd my habita- 
tion, as I thought, 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



29 



was like. Where the river 
falls into the basin, the water 
is very red, and the shore 
where I had dug was sticky 
and smooth like clay. On my 
way out I threw a shovelful of 
this earth some distance over 
the ground, in order to see 
just what it was, and going on 
for a quarter of an hour, I 
found a red rocky bank with 
many holes in it. After prob- 
ably a long quarter of an 
hour, on my way back I ex- 
amined the red clay, which I 
then spread out rather thin 
and went to my hut. I also 
got some fruit. It occurred 
to me that if the clay were 
good, I should be able to build 
a fine cabin with it. When I 
went to it the next time I 
found that it was dry, hard 
and strong, at which I greatly 
rejoiced. 

When I returned to my hut, 
I meditated, while smoking 
« boughs my pjp e> on w h a t I had to do. 

ground, I cut a number of thick and 



(141) 

Finds 
brick-clay. 



Builds a 
circular 
hut, stick- 



fully to my Mind, 
I had a great De- 
sire to make a 
more perfect Dis- 
covery of the Is- 
land." 



68. 



"Before I set 
my Tent, I 



up 

drew a half Circle 

before the hollow 



30 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



and wat- 
tling: them. 



Makes 
ladder. 



stout boughs, and having 
clipped from the main stems 
all the side-boughs, I stuck 
the former very deep and 
close to each other into the 
ground in a circle, which was 
eighteen of my feet in diam- 
eter. I began to wattle these 
from the bottom up, like a 
farmer's hedge, and by work- 
ing almost constantly, I had 
the structure in a few days as 
high above the ground as I 
could make it. Not being able 
to reach any higher, I had to 
make a ladder, for which I 
prepared two fine straight 
limbs, each nine of my feet 
long. But since I had no 
auger nor chisel, I had to 
make the holes with my knife, 
which proved so difficult that 
I got blisters on my hands 
and had to suspend this work, 
and either do lighter work or 
sit still. 



Place, which took 
in about ten Yards 
in its Semi-diame- 
ter from the Rock 
. . . I pitch 'd two 
Bows of strong 
Stakes, driving 
them into the 
Ground till they 
stood very firm 
like Piles." 
Vol. II, 122. "rad- 
ling or working it 
up like Basket- 
work all the way 
round. ' ' 

68. ' ' The Entrance 
into this Place I 
made to be not by 
a Door, but by a 
short Ladder, to go 
over the Top, 
which Ladder, 
when I was in, I 
lifted over after 
me." [B. gives no 
further details of 
his Ladder, except 
a journal entry 
that he finished it; 
p. 93. Cf. Introd. 
p. xlviii.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



31 



Thought 
suddenly ' 
comes to 
him of 
having 
woven 
bird cages. 



(142) 



Lines 
basket 
with clay. 



The door or rather entrance 
to my hut I had made five of 
my feet high and two and a 
half wide; for this I was go- 
ing to weave a door, and while 
I was busy with it, the 
thought suddenly came to me, 
that in the fatherland I used 
to make square bird cages of 
willow twigs. I let the door 
wait and began to work on 
what I shall call a "bottom," 
a foot and a half square. 
Wattling u this up on the 
sides also, a foot and a half, 
behold! I had a basket, and 
turning it over, a stool — mag- 
nificent furniture! I went 
with it to the clay-strand, 
smeared my basket on the out- 
side with clay, dried it in the 
sun, besprinkled it with water 
with a green bough, then 
smoothed the cracks close 
with my hand, and my basket 
became as tight and hard as if 
it were coated with red stone, 

"See p. 146 (K. K.), where 



125. "It prov'd of 
excellent Advan- 
tage to me now, 
that when I was a 
Boy, I used to 
take great Delight 
in standing at a 
Basket-maker's in 
the Town where 
my Father liv 'd, 
to see them make 
their Wicker-ware) 
and being, as Boys 
usually are, very 
officious to help, 
and a great Obser- 
ver of the Manner 
how they work 'd 
those things, and 
sometimes lending 
a Hand, I had by 
this means full 
Knowledge of the 
Methods of it, that 
I wanted nothing 
but the Materials; 
when it came into 
my Mind, that the 
Twigs of that Tree 
from whence I cut 
my Stakes that 
grew, might possi- 

he speaks of having 



32 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Makes a 
milk-yoke 
for carry- 
ing clay. 



Hakes 
peep-holes 
in hat. 

Lines hat 
trith clay. 



at which I rejoiced not a 
little. Now I could make con- 
tainers for my goods, and 
whatever I needed. 

This set me to thinking, so 
that I at once began again to 
weave, and made two more 
similar baskets. These fin- 
ished, I chopped a stiff piece 
of wood a fathom long, put on 
each end of it a string, tied 
the baskets to these, and this 
I used as one does a milk- 
yoke ; with it I carried clay to 
the hut. Having cut some 
peep-holes in the hut, I fell 
to smearing, sprinkling and 
smoothing, and in three days 
had my hut coated, dry and 
smooth to the height of five 
feet, and it was as strong and 
hard as if it were of red brick. 



bly be as tough as 
the Sallows, and 
Willows, and Os- 
iers in England, 
and I resolved to 
try. ' '"a 



"•Compare the above paragraph with the following 
pasage from the earlier part of ' ' Krinke Kesmes, " p. 7 : 

"I had my lodgings in the house of a cooper, an old 
and honorable citizen, where for pastime I helped him 
peel hoops, that is, take off the bark or make them white. 
I put on a leathern apron, and took up coopering for a 
pastime, and got such a liking for it, that I became able 
not only to lay a hoop well, but to prepare staves, make 
a bucket, a pail, an anker, and so forth." 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



33 



(148) 



Calls this 
hut his 
castle. 



After my hands got well, I 
took up work on my ladder 
again. I wound linen around 
my knife and although I 
worked rather slowly, I got 
five steps or rungs completed, 
and by their aid I wattled my 
hut together at the top, leav- 
ing there a hole a foot square, 
that I could close with a lid, 
or open to let in fresh air or 
let out the smoke. My roof 
having been smoothed and be- 
come dry, I considered that in 
this structure I had a castle. 
Furthermore, I made several 
baskets to keep my things in 
and to put winter stores into, 
and coated them like my hut 
with red clay. 



126. "I employed 
myself in making, 
as well as I could, 
a great many Bas- 
kets, both to carry 
Earth, or to carry 
or lay up anything 
as I had occa- 
sion." [E. had al- 
ready made a 
"Hodd" to carry 
away the earth 
from his cave; p. 
86. Cf. K. K. 
p. 142.] 



170. "In my Wick- 
er Ware also I im- 
proved much, and 
made abundance of 
necessary Baskets 
. . . for my laying 
Things up in, or 
fetching Things 
home in." 

182. [R. first calls 
his ' ' Cave ' ' or 
"Home" his "Cas- 
tle."] 

247. "My first 
Wall had now a 



34 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Adds to 
his hat. 



I built on to my round hut 
also a fine square one, that 
was fifteen feet on each side, a 
fine and substantial structure 
having like the round one an 
opening at the top and peep- 
holes lower down. Now I was 
lord of two castles. In the 
day time I wrote a journal of 
my doings, and from reading 
it often I learned it by heart. 



compleat Eoof over 
it . . . and at the 
Hole or Place 
which was left to 
go in or out by the 
Ladder, I had 
plac'd a kind of 
Trap-door, ' ' etc 

[E. had a "Door 
to come out," 
through the back 
of his cave, pp. 78, 
179, and finally 
made peep-holes or 
portholes ; p. 190. 
C/. Introd., p. 1.] 

190. "double Wall 
. . . having in it 
seven little Holes, 
about as big as I 
might put my Arm 
out at . . . and 
through the seven 
Holes, I contriv'd 
to plant the Mus- 
quets, of which I 
took Notice, that 
I got seven on 
Shore out of the 
Ship; these, I say, 
I planted like my 
Cannon," etc. Cf. 
p. 212, "like 



Compared vrith Robinson Crusoe 35 



Once upon a time, while on 
my way to get some fruit, I 
noticed a fine mound that 
looked as if it had been made 
by hands. It was invested 
round about with trees grow- 
ing trunk to trunk in a circle, 
and there was a single tree in 
the centre. I could see this 
hill from my hut, but had 
never given it any considera- 
tion; it was four hundred 



Pieces of Can- 
non," and p. 215, 
1 ' all my Cannon, 
as I eall'd them; 
that is to say, my 
Muskets," etc. 
286. "and as I 
cooked it without 
Doors," (for I 
made no Fire with- 
in my inner 
Wall.") 

[The cabin boy's 
fire appears to 
have been inside 
his hut (K. K. p. 
145). E. says of 
a fire-place, and of 
fuel, p. 72, "and 
what I did for 
that, as also how 
I enlarg 'd my 
Cave, and what 
Conveniencies I 
made, I shall give 
a full Account of 
in its Place," but 
he fails to keep 
the first part of his 
promise.] 

P. 70. "My new 
Cave, which in my 
fancy I eall'd my 
Kitchen." 



36 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



(144) 



steps distant. Upon reflec- 
tion I got my axe and went 
and chopped off three of the 
trees two feet above the 
ground. 



Stepping inside the ring, I 
could not avoid the conclusion 
that this group had been 
planted there. Fetching my 
Itlndtng ladder I chopped off all the 
other trees in the ring, leaving 
the stems ten feet high; that 
of the tree in the middle I left 
twenty feet high, trimming 
from it all its branches, and 
peeling all the stems to the 
ground. 



Builds hut 
on a 
mound 
with ai 
standing 
trees by 
cutting off 
their tops. 



P. 86. "I work'd 
to make this Boom 
or Cave spacious 
enough to accom- 
modate me as a 
Warehouse or 
Magazine, a Kitch- 
en," etc. 

141. [B. used sun- 
baked pots in 
wicker baskets.] 

142. "The heat of 
the Sun bak 'd 
them strangely 
hard." 

123. "The Circle 
or double Hedge 
that I had made, 
was not only firm 
and entire, but the 
Stakes which I 
had cut out of 
some Trees that 
grew thereabouts, 
were all shot out 
and grown with 
long Branches, . . . 
I was surpriz 'd, 
and yet very well 
pleas 'd, to see the 
young Trees 
grow;" 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



37 



Fortress. 



Takes up 
residence 
in his 
fortress. 



These trees were eighteen 
and twenty inches in girth. I 
thought I would build a fort- 
ress at this place ! I went to 
it during the day, to while 
away the time wattling-in the 
enclosure with thick boughs, 
which I pounded close to- 
gether with a stake. This 
castle after some time was fin- 
ished as far up as the roof, 
which in the course of time 
took shape also. My door was 
two and a half feet square 
beginning two feet above the 
ground. I fetched here my 
cask of brandy and a bladder- 
ful of gun-powder, my rusks, 
some bullets, etc. Finally, I 
went there to live, with my 
bed and most of my things, 
having buried the rest in my 
other houses, where they were 
well protected. 



190. "These Trees 
having been plant- 
ed so thick before, 
they wanted but a 
few Piles to be 
driven between 
them, that they 
should be thieker, 
and stronger," etc. 
69. "Into this 
Fence 1 !b or For- 
tress ' ' [his en- 
closed Cave] etc. 
[Vol. II, — Cf. de- 
scription of Will 
Atkins's house.] 

119. . . . "Bower, 
and surrounded it 
at a Distance with 
a strong Fence, 
being a double 
Hedge, as high as 
I could reach, well 
stak 'd, and fill 'd 
between with 
Brushwood" . . . 
124. "and plaeing 
the Trees or Stakes 



no In the sense of protection against attack. 



38 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



in a double Row 
. . . they grew 
presently . . . and 
afterward serv'd 
for a Defence al- 



Makes 

salt, dries 

fish. 

Makes 

more 

baskets, 

tables, etc. 

(145) 



Disturbed 
by noise at 
night. 



I had also obtained a whole 
stone basketful of salt in the 
holes in the red rock at the 
end of the salt basin, had laid 
by a fine supply of dried fish, 
and had a good many baskets 
coated outside and inside with 
red clay, and with lids on 
them; wicker tables, stools 
and a bedstead. My existence 
was now quite secure. 

I took no note of days, 
weeks, months, nor years, nor 
did I know how long I had 
been here. After a long time 
as I was sleeping quietly in 
the middle of a dark night, I 
heard a dreadful confusion of 
roars that woke me up ; still I 
remained tranquil because no 
one, neither man nor beast, 
could injure me in my fort- 
ress. However, I made a fire, 
which was soon done, for I 



139. [R. mentions 
the lack of salt. 
On p. 251 he eats 
salt on goat 's 
meat, and could 
not have procured 
it from the Span- 
ish wreck, because 
the goods in the 
latter had been 
spoiled by the 
water. 

Some modern edi- 
tors insert "salt" 
in the text (p. 
174) in connection 
with butter and 
cheese.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 39 

always kept a good supply of 

very dry boughs and also of 

coarse split wood. My door 

was shut and my peep-holes 

were stopped up. 

Having placed my gun in 

readiness, I laid some wood 

on the fire and went to bed 

again. When day came, I was 

curious to know what it was 

that had made the noise. 
Kins s Opening my peep-holes, I saw 
wild bull. seven black bulls which looked 

as if they had been fighting, 

because two or three among 

them were bleeding. One ap- 
proaching my castle, came 

within twelve or fourteen 

paces of me and stood still, 

looking in my direction. I 

rested by gun through a peep- 
hole and shot him right in the 

forehead, so that he fell dead. 

Immediately reloading, I 71. " The first shot 

(146) made myself ready in case J made amon g 

more should come, but the *£» C '? at " res ' * 
., . , -. ,_. kill 'da She-Goat." 

others retired in the direction 

of the forest. This was the 

game. first game that I had seen. 



40 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



I went to the bull with 
shovel, cutlass and knife. He 
lay on his side and I could not 
at first get him on to his back, 
but I dug a furrow behind 
him, and he gradually settled 
into it, almost on his back. 
With the axe I cut his throat 
from which he bled freely. 
On ripping him up, I found 
him very fat, and fetching 

o»ier table, from my other house an osier 
table, I laid the fat on it 
which was very abundant, 
and would weigh more than a 
hundred pounds. I presently 
fell to rendering it in my cop- 
per pan, and recovered two 
fine clay-lined basketfuls of 
grease, as well as three basket- 
fuls of the best meat, which I 
salted. I blew up the blad- 
der, cleaned the intestines at 
the basin, dried some, filled 
others with salted meat and 

Pemmican. grease 12 and of these I dried 
some in the smoke and others 



148. "At last find- 
ing it impossible 
to heave it [the 
boat] up with my 
little Strength, I 
fell to digging 
away the Sand to 
undermine it, and 
so to make it fall 
down. ' ' 



12 Pemmican was probably known in Europe at this 
date. 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 41 



(147) 



Takes 
some 
brandy 
and wine. 



Daily occu- 
pation. 



in the air. His horns I cut 
off, dried and scraped, and 
they made good cups. 

I boiled and roasted from 
the bull's carcass until it be- 
gan to be offensive. Then I 
made a deep wide hole into 
which I let it slip, helping it 
along with levers, and cover- 
ing it with earth. I was 
thankful to God for His good- 
ness. Many times every day 
I looked with joy upon my 
stock of victuals. I had not 
touched my brandy nor my 
wine. I was keeping them 
against a sick day, yet I got a 
longing and had to take a 
taste, and so, one morning, I 
took a little brandy ; at noon, 
when I ate my dinner, I took 
with my meat a half tin cup- 
ful of Spanish wine. I felt 
after it as if I were going to a 
wedding feast with the Gods ! 
After that the tap was shut 
for a long time. 

Now my daily work was to 
make salt, to catch fish, boil, 



212. "So I in- 
ter M him [the old 
goat] there to pre- 
vent Offence to my 
Nose. ' ' 

151. "I had all 
that I was now 
capable of enjoy- 
ing." 

160. "Thus I lived 
mighty comforta- 
bly." 

95. "I went to my 
little Store, and 
took a small Sup 
of Rum, which 
however I did then 
and always very 
sparingly, knowing 
I could have no 
more when that 
was gone. ' ' [Cf. 
p. 273.] 



83. Nov. 4. "This 
Morning I began 



42 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Builds 
pleasure 
hut at the 
basin. 



Another 
on the 
mountain. 

(148) 

Makes 

clay floor 
in fortress. 



roast, or dry them; to make 
chests and baskets of various 
sizes and fashions, to smooth 
them evenly inside and out 
with clay, and then to dry 
them; and to cut and dry 
wood, of which I always had 
a hutful in store, besides a 
great heap or stock. I also 
had a big basketful of dry 
wood-scrapings which under a 
burning-glass caught fire "in 
a hurry. ' ' 

Everything was going well 
with me now. I lived happily 
and quietly in my solitude. I 
had also built a substantial 
hut at the basin on the clay- 
strand, where I could fish, 
sleep, and cook; this was for 
my entertainment. I had also 
built a hut on the hill or 
mountain, but I did not coat 
it with clay because of the 
great labor involved, but I 
made in my fortress a clay 
floor which dried off smooth 
and neat, and was excellent, 
but proved too cold for my 



to order my times 
of Work," etc. 
[These were: 

1. Times of work; 

2. Going out with 
gun; 

3. Sleep; 

4. Diversion.] 

134. "but having 
regularly divided 
my Time, accord- 
ing to the several 
daily Employ- 
ments that were 
before me, such 
as, First, my Duty 
to God, and the 
reading the Scrip- 
tures, . . . Second- 
ly, The going 
Abroad with my 
Gun for Food, . . . 
Thirdly, The or- 
dering, curing, 
preserving and 
cooking what I 
had kill'd or 
catch 'd for my 
Supply." 

119. I built me a 
little kind of a 
Bower ... so that 
I fancy 'd now I 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



43 



Clothes 

wearing 

out. 



Goes bare- bare feet. I went barefooted 

footed. _ , . , 

in order to save my shoes and 
stockings, and almost naked 
in order to preserve my cloth- 
ing. My shirts and outside 
garments were wearing out 
and were also becoming too 
small for me. When I wore 
an undergarment I left off my 
shirt. No one could save and 
take care of his clothes better 
than I did. However, I had 
to make apparel, at first out 
of my hammock and later out 
of my straw mattress, and 
after that I had to sleep on 
dry leaves on a woven bed- 
stead, which nevertheless was 
quite comfortable. 

The basin furnished me 
Dried fish, with as many fish as I wanted. 
Dried fish was my mainstay, 
I might say — my bread — 
which I ate after I had boiled 
or roasted it, and it agreed 
with me very well. Now and 
then I shot a wild bull. I 
built huts in superabundance 
as a pastime and now had 



had my Country- 
House, and my 
Sea-Coast-House. ' ' 

158. "My Cloaths 
began to decay too 
mightily. ' ' 



98. I went a fish- 
ing, but caught 
not one Fish that 
I durst eat of, till 
I was weary of my 
Sport; when just 
going to leave off, 
I caught a young 
Dolphin. I had 
made me a long 
Line of some Rope 
Yarn, but I had 



44 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Thirteen 
hats. 
Pleasure- 
house. 



thirteen, beside the "gallery" 
at the basin. My beard was 
beginning to sprout, a sure 
sign that I had lived here a 
long time; and yet I was al- 
ways cheerful and well. 



no Hooks, yet I 
frequently caught 
Fish enough, as 
much as I car'd to 
eat; all which I 
dry'd in the Sun, 
and eat them 
dry." [This is the 
only time R. speaks 
of fishing, and his 
statement seems 
like a very per- 
functory attempt 
to cover two points 
in the other story, 

— the dried fish 
and the ' ' mon- 
strous" fish, p. 69. 
We are left utter- 
ly in the dark as 
to how he caught 
fish without hooks 
or a net, and from 
one who goes into 
particulars as he 
generally does, it 
is hard to accept 
the statement as 
self -prompted. 
Note that R. ate 
his fish uncooked 

— in effect a nega- 
tion of what should 
seem to be the more 
natural course.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



45 



ViewB the 
country. 



Finds 
rushes. 

(149) 



Makes a 

leaden 
lamp. 



Once upon a time, wishing 
to see where the river came 
from, I took my gun and cut- 
lass with me, and after an 
hour's walk, by my guess, I 
saw, beside the river, what 
seemed to me an entire marsh 
filled with rushes, many of 
them along its edges. These 
were most welcome to me, and 
having cut a goodly quantity 
of them, I spread them out to 
dry. I cut, besides, a bunch 
which I took with me to make 
lamp-wicks, for I had a good 
deal of grease in store, be- 
cause now and then I shot a 
wild bull. 



Now that I had lamp-wick- 
ing, I made a leaden lamp as 
a sailor does on board ship, 
and burned a light at night 
which was a great pleasure to 
me. Some days later, I 



126. [Continuing 
his statement about 
sallows, willows 
and osiers (supra, 
p. 32) R. goes on 
to say:] "I went 
to my Country- 
House, as I call'd 
it, and cutting some 
of the smaller 
Twigs, I found 
them to my Pur- 
pose ... I came 
the next time pre- 
par'd with a 
Hatchet to cut 
down a Quantity, 
which I soon 
found, for there 
was great Plenty 
of them: these I 
set up to dry 
within my Circle 
or Hedge, and 
when they were fit 
for Use, I carried 
them to my Cave. ' ' 

90. "when I had 
kill'd a Goat, I 
sav'd the Tallow, 
and with a little 
Dish made of Clay, 
which I bak'd in 
the Sun, to which 



46 



Narrative of Sjouke Oabbes 



Make* 
mats and 
coverlets. 



Makes 
clothing 
with 
rushes. 



Uses bull- 
hides for 
shoes and 
stockings. 

Habitation 
is on east 
coast of 
Southland. 



fetched several loads of dry 
rushes, cutting still more and 
laying them out to dry; in 
this way I collected a whole 
hutful. I made mats from 
them to lay over the leaves on 
my bedstead which were in 
disorder, and also made cov- 
ers to spread over whatever I 
might see fit. Finally, I 
clothed myself with rushes — 
what cannot poverty con- 
trive ! And now I did almost 
nothing but make rush mats, 
large as well as small, and of 
all patterns. 

In this way I lived a con- 
siderable time quite content- 
edly. I had covered the floor 
of my fortress with rush mats. 
I had also dried eight or ten 
bull-hides as large as I could 
strip them off; these were 
good for shoes, stockings, etc., 
etc. 

By this time I was thor- 
oughly acquainted with the 
forest and knew well how to 
make use of the directions of 



I added a Wiek of 
some Oakum, I 
made me a Lamp. ' • 



159. "I made me 
a Suit of Cloaths 
wholly of these 
Skins." [of goats] 

160. "Thus I lived 
mighty comforta- 
bly." 

176. [B. evidently 
went barefooted, 
but used goat 
skins for ' • Busk- 
ins, to flap over 
my Legs, and laee 
on either Side like 
Spatter-dashes. ' ' 



130. "I could not 
see which was my 
way by any Direc- 
tion but that of 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



47 



(150) 



Calls his 
fortress his 
castle. 



Outlook 
on the 
mountain. 



sunrise and sunset. Against 
the sunrise was the sea; at 
midday the sun stood over the 
river, and against the sunset 
were the forest and hinter- 
land. 

Once upon a time a brisk 
gale sprang up at sea and be- 
came more and more violent, 
accompanied by thunder and 
lightning, so that the forest 
seemed to be blowing down. 
The storm became so fright- 
ful, with rain and heavy peals 
of thunder, that although I 
was in my castle, I became 
very uneasy and in my fright 
did not know where to hide. 
Indeed, some trees were up- 
rooted, and even the wind at 
times came in gusts like thun- 
derclaps; this lasted about 
two days and two nights, 
when the storm abated. 

I perceived that the wind 
was still drawing strong, and 
went up the mountain to my 
outlook. The sea was running 
very high with deep troughs. 



the Sun, nor 
even then, unless 
I knew very well 
the Position of 
the Sun at that 
time of the Day." 






48 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Storm 
at sea. 



Eclipse of 

the moon. 

(151) 



Storm 
carries 
away hut 
on the 
mountain. 



Coming down again, I went to 
catch some fish, and while I 
was fishing, the wind began to 
blow with increasing force. 

As I went to my fortress 
with a basket of fish, the gale 
rose again and the longer it 
lasted the more violent it be- 
came. The moon was now at 
the full, and the clouds 
seemed fairly to fly across it. 
I sat in the lee of my castle, 
for the weather was now dry. 
The moon slowly became dark 
just as if in an eclipse. This 
frightened me and made me 
go inside. My lamp was burn- 
ing and after I had made a 
little fire I went to bed; still 
I could not sleep, but was full 
of fear and apprehension. 

When day came, I saw the 
water in the sea was very an- 
gry and high, but the wind 
was falling. I went again up 
the mountain, in order to take 
a look at the tempestuous sea, 
and could not find my hut 
there. It had been broken off 



94. [R. experienc- 
ed an earthquake 
and a hurricane.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



49 



Replaces 
hut. 



Visits the 
Outlook. 



even with the ground and all 
my wattlings and weavings 
were gone, and I never saw 
them afterwards. That made 
me build another hut later. 

I fished again and boiled 
what I caught, at the basin. 
After having eaten heartily, I 
thought I would go up the 
mountain and search for the 
pieces of my hut, the Out- 
look. "When I arrived on top, 
I noticed some black objects 
at sea, but could not tell what 
they were. I was slightly in- 
disposed from the former 
storm, and did not feel well. 
I drank some brandy to re- 
vive me, which I fetched out 
of my fortress, and it 
strengthened me mightily. 
Then I went to the shore. The 
wind was still fresh from the 
sea and made unusually high 
water. 

Noticing a shallop driving 
straight towards the strand, I 
tightened my belt 18 and 



94. "the Motion 
of the Earth made 
my Stomach sick." 

95. "and now to 
support my Spir- 
its, which indeed 
wanted it very 
much ... I went 
to my little Store 
and took a small 
Sup of Rum." 
[This was said 
after the storm 
and earthquake.] 



97. [The Storm 
i3«<haalden strak mijn Vis-touw." The writer sub- 



50 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Sees a boat 
drifting 
towards 
ihore. 



(152) 
Prepares 
to secure 
it 

Takes it 
into the 
slough. 



pulled off my rush coat. Then 
I took a good look at her. The 
sea-floor here was flat and in 
consequence there were no 
breakers. I got a firm hold 
on her and dragged her grad- 
ually into the slough or dis- 
charge from the basin, about 
ten minutes from its mouth. 
She had no oar, but forward 
in her lay a kedge with a rope 
which I made fast on land. I 
was nearly exhausted by my 
efforts to prevent the shallop 



brings E. 's wreck 
nearer shore.] 

55. [E. had found 
the ship's boat the 
day after he was 
washed ashore, but 
could not use it.] 

97. "I found a 
small Barrel, and 
two or three Pieces 
of the Wreck of 
the Ship, which 
were driven on 
Shore by the late 
Hurricane ; and 

mitted this translation to several cultured Dutch peo- 
ple. Most of them disapproved of it; few endorsed 
it without reserve. He then asked Mr. V. Stefansson, 
the arctic explorer, the significance of "fish-line" 
among mariners. Because of the interest and impor- 
tance of the term, Mr. Stefansson 's reply is appended 
in full: 

"As to the expression 'fish-line.' In my association 
with sailors, both native users of the English language 
and foreigners who have learned English at sea, I have 
found that a certain type of rope or line is always 
known as 'fish-line.' My impression is that in size this 
line varies from about the diameter of an ordinary pen- 
cil, when it is called 'cod-line,' down to hard twisted 
string not much stouter than ordinary wrapping cord. 
Line intermediate between these two sizes we always 
buy and use under the name of fish-line. 

"It happens that sailors use this line a great deal, 
and naturally, the more they use it the more inclined 
they are to use it for any new emergency. Consequent- 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 51 

from going ashore, but now looking towards 

had her under control. the Wreck itself > * 

I went to my castle, made a : ox \? . . seem c 

A J 1£ J 4. 1 t0 lie hl g her 0Ut 

fire, warmed myself, and took of the Water than 
half a cup of Spanish wine, it us'd to do." 
which restored my strength. [For correlation of 
Going again to the strand, I the sources of sup- 
saw many casks, chests and V 1 ? ™ the two 
i j • • j narratives — chests, 
parcels come driving on, and 

, , , . . , wrecks, etc., see 

some that already lay embed- Introd-) p> xi v .] 

ded on the strand ; a true sign 

ly, any broken thing is likely to be mended or lashed 
together with fish-line. Their carry-all bags and duffle 
bags commonly have their mouths tied with the string, 
either by wrapping the string around the folded mouth 
of the bag, or else by having it as a drawstring. Sim- 
ilarly, gauntlet gloves may have draw-strings of fish- 
line to tighten the gauntlet around the arm, and in the 
North our water boots frequently have draw-strings at 
the top to tighten them around the leg just below the 
knee. It is also not uncommon that in place of a belt 
a sailor will insert into the top of his trowsers as a 
draw-string a length of fish-line which then serves as a 
belt not detachable from the garment. 

"Without asserting any strong opinion as to what 
the particular Dutch sentence you quote may mean, I 
can say at least that there is nothing out of conform- 
ity with ordinary English usage among sailors in the 
trans-literating, 'I tightened my fish-line* into 'I tight- 
ened my belt.' " 

If this rendering be correct, the expression adds an 
important item to the proof adduced by Naber, that 
Smeeks was familiar with sea-faring terms, for he has 
here used one that is not recognized even by the lands- 
men of his own country. — Translator. 



52 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Finds 
wreckage 
on shore. 



Finds 
clothing, 
biscuits, 
and wine. 
(153) 



As rich as 
a king! 



that in the late storm a ship 
had gone aground or been 
wrecked hereabouts. I hur- 
riedly fetched my axe, broke 
open some chests, and found 
in them shirts, clothes, tobac- 
co, et cetera, such as a sailor 
or soldier is accustomed to 
have with him. Most of the 
chests were still dry inside. I 
appropriated as many of the 
contents as I could, and 
brought away to my castle a 
load big enough for four; 
what was wet, I dried. I can- 
not express the joy I felt, and 
neither can anyone know it or 
imagine it, that has not been 
in the uttermost poverty. 14 

Into some of the chests very 
little or no water had come. 
Out of these I took, and at 
once put on, a shirt and some 
clothing, and I felt that I was 
veritably as rich as a great 
king. I also found some 
rusks, ate them with some 

" Cf. supra, p. 6. 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



53 



Stern of 
ship driven 
on shore. 



Hopes of 
companion- 
ship. 



Spanish wine, which restored 
my failing strength. 

Going back to the strand to 
fetch more things, I saw the 
entire stern of a ship come 
driving on, with many more 
casks, chests, boxes of stock- 
fish, planks, and so forth. 
Now I became joyous, hoping 
that in the wreck there would 
be another living person for 
my society. It drove so far 
upon the beach that it held 
fast, like many of the smaller 
objects, as I have mentioned. 
There was exceedingly high 
water when this stuff came up 
on land. When the wind sub- 
sided and the water fell, the 
wreck stood so high and dry 
that I could not get into it, 
but ran around it, calling and 
shouting, to see if there were 
any one in it; but no one 
made answer. 



222. "O that there 
had been but one 
or two; nay, or but 
one Soul sav'd out 
of this Ship, to 
have escap 'd to 
me, that I might 
but have had one 
Companion, one 
Fellow-Creature to 
have spoken to me, 
and to have con- 
vers'd with I In all 
the Time of my 
solitary Life, I 
never felt so earn- 
est, so strong a De- 
sire after the So- 
ciety of my Fel- 
low-Creatures, or 
so deep a Eegret 
at the Want of 
it." 

[Cf. Eeflections on 
Companionship, pp. 
156, 222, 223, 234, 
253, and where the 
desire for compan- 
ionship seems rath- 
er to have degen- 
erated into the 



54 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Climbs 
aboard by- 
rope. 



(154) 
Finds a 
dog on the 
wreck. 



Condition 
of wreck. 



Examining it on all sides 
with attention, I saw that the 
entire starboard side was 
stove in, the mizzen yard lay- 
across the ship and the mizzen 
sheet hung to port, to which 
side also the whole wreck 
heeled over. I took a firm 
hold on the rope and climbed 
up against the hull. I found 
no one. I looked into the hold 
and through the decks, and 
went into the round house, 
where there were six chests 
and three bottle-cases, and a 
great English dog, which on 
seeing me, wagged his tail 
and came and licked my hand. 
On the half -deck was a great 
Cologne clay pot with water 
in it. To port under the half- 
deck were two cannons that 
were looking out of their port- 
holes, and a third with its car- 
riage overturned, that had 



wish to have a ser- 
vant or slave, pp. 
235-7, 240, 241, 
249, and 252.] 

97. "When I came 
down to the Ship, 
... I could now 
walk quite up to 
her when the Tide 
was out;" [Sec- 
ond position o f 
R's wreck.] 
55. ' ' small Piece 
of a Rope . . . 
hang down by the 
Fore-Chains so low, 
as that with great 
Difficulty I got 
hold of it, and by 
the help of that 
Rope, got up into 
the Forecastle of 
the Ship." 
226. "Besides the 
Dog, there was 
nothing left in the 
Ship that had 
life." [Cf. 226 
fcnd infra, p. 56.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



55 



rolled over to this side from 
the starboard. The great 
cabin had four windows, and 
the panes in them were but 
little damaged, and the Cap- 
tain 's bunk was still entire. 

When I saw this I did not 
at first know what to do, but 
after I had thought the mat- 
ter out, I pulled all the run- 
ning line from the mizzen 
mast, and cut off the mizzen 
headline aloft under the top- 
sail. The end of it fell over 
the side and extended almost 
to the ground ; I could bridge 
the gap comfortably with the 
ladder I had made. Again, 
I went all through the ship, 
below deck, then above, shout- 
ing to see if there were any 
people in it, but none came 
out, nor did I hear any one. 

Searching about, under the 
half deck, I noticed the car- 
Carpenter's penter's chest open. In it 
were a saw, some hammers, 
hatchets, chisels, planes, au- 
gers and other tools. With a 



Searches 
again for 
survivors. 



chest. 



58. ' ' Carpenter 's 
Chest, which was a 
very useful Prize 
to me." 



56 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 




Throws 
articles 
over the 
side of the 
wreck. 
(155) 



Finds 

clothing, 
food, tobac- 
co, etc. 



Takes dog 
to his 

castle. 



hatchet, a hammer, a crowbar, 
et cetera, I went back to the 
round house, in which there 
were ten beds and in the beds 
were three more bottle-cases. 
I threw over the side two 
straw-beds, two coverlets, and 
four pillows, to take to my 
castle. I opened also a steers- 
man 's chest, and found in it 
twelve good shirts marked 
"H. G.," with three suits of 
underclothes and a suit for 
shore-leave, a cheese, some to- 
bacco, and pipes, a marine 
chart and some other things. 
I threw also the shirts and 
clothes over the side, and de- 
scended along the mizzen 
head-line to take away all of 
these things and place them 
in safety. 

The big English dog cried 
after me and was going to 
jump down from above. This 
moved me to come up again, 
and I tied his muzzle and low- 
ered him with the mizzen 
sheet and followed after him. 



56. ' ' flung as many 
of them over-board 
as I could manage 
of their Weight." 



75. [first wreck] 
"and as for the 
Dog, he jump 'd 
out of the Ship of 
himself, and swam 
on Shore to me the 
Day after I went 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



57 






Makes 
pack- 
saddle for 

dog. 

Dog car- 
ries 
baskets. 



(156) 



This dog was big and strong 
and I used him as my burden- 
bearer. When I had joined 
him, I took to my castle as 
much as I could carry. I 
rested there a while, and gave 
the dog some boiled fish and a 
drink of water, and every 
time I fed him that animal 
evinced for me greater and 
greater friendship. 

Evening came and I was 
weary, and yet I went with 
my "Draager" (so I named 
my dog) to the river and let 
him drink ; I had there a mess 
of boiled fish which he de- 
voured. We went back to my 
castle, and on arriving there, 
I cut for him from a dried 
bull-hide a saddle to go over 
his back. I took two uncoated 
baskets a foot and a half long, 
and two, a foot long, fastened 
them together with two ropes, 
and they constituted his car- 
rying outfit. 

I made a fire, boiled and 
roasted some fish, and Draa- 



on Shore with my 
first Cargo." 
[This tardy state- 
ment does injus- 
tice to the natures 
of both Robinson 
and the dog and is 
thus in effect a 
contradiction. 

226. [Spanish 
wreck] "when I 
came, close to her, 
a Dog appear 'd 
upon her, who see- 
ing me coming, 
yelp'd and cry'd; 
and as soon as I 
call'd him, jump'd 
into the Sea, to 
come to me ... I 
gave him a Cake 
of my Bread . . . 
I then gave the 
poor Creature some 
fresh Water." 
[This incident, 

eight years after 
the death of B's 
first dog, is inject- 
ed into E's narra- 
tive in a para- 
graph of ten lines, 
in connection with 
the episode of the 



58 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Continues 
to plunder 
the wreck. 



ger and I ate our fill, and 
slept quietly. The next morn- 
ing at daybreak I went with 
Draager to the wreck, after 
having put on him his saddle 
and baskets. When I reached 
the deck, I broke chests open 
one after another, and found 
in them clothes, linen, to- 
bacco, merchandise, rusks, 
cheeses, et cetera. There was 
a key in one bottle-case with 
which I opened at least four 
other cases which were all full 
of brandy ; I again threw over 
the side of the wreck linen 
and woolen stuffs, and what- 
ever was of use to me, and we 
both spent this day in carry- 
ing. "We had plenty to eat 
and drink. The wreck lay 
aslant on the after end of the 
port side, and in the lower 
parts was still full of water. 
I salvaged all that I could, for 
nothing came amiss to me, 
and a good deal of stuff went 
into each of my huts. 
I made two more rather 



Spanish wreck, 

which itself has 
not even the merit 
of novelty (for the 
wreck-idea was ful- 
ly exploited in the 
earlier part of the 
story) and is ap- 
parently used, or 
is useful here only 
as padding; and 
never another word 
about the dog oc- 
curs in the remain- 
ing hundred pages 
— during E's stay 
on the island. The 
similarity to the 
Dutch story is 
very apparent here, 
not only in the late 
introduction of this 
wreck episode into 
It's narrative, but 
in the final abrupt 
passage into obliv- 
ion of his dog.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



59 



Makes a 
wagon. 
(157) 



long baskets for Draager; I 
lowered the bottle-cases with 
the mizzen sheet. I carried 
linen and woolen, and Draa- 
ger each trip carried six one- 
gallon flagons, and thus I 
speedily got the seven bottle- 
cases over. I could lower 
empty chests as I did the 
bottle-cases, but could not 
take them away, until it oc- 
curred to me that I had a saw. 
So I sawed four blocks from 
a round and solid tree, and 
contrived from them four 
wheels, which I made fast 
under a rectangular block of 
wood, and thus I had a wagon. 
I made draught tackle for 
Draager, who could easily 
pull the wagon with one chest 
on it, when I pushed a little. 
Thus in a short time I trans- 
ported many large and small 
chests, several bundles of 
stock fish, and a variety of 
other things. 

After this, on visiting the 
ship's cabin, I found four 



85. "as to a Wheel- 
barrow, I fancy 'd 
I could make all 
but the Wheel, but 
that I had no No- 
tion of, neither 
did I know how to 
go about it; be- 
sides I had no pos- 
sible way to make 
the Iron Gudgeons 
for the Spindle or 
Axis of the Wheel 
to run in, so I 
gave it over. [On 
p. 96 E. says:] 
"At length I eon- 
triv 'd a Wheel 
with a String, to 
turn it with my 
Foot, ' ' etc [and 
on p. 170,] "con- 
trived well enough 
to make them 
[pottery] with a 
Wheel." 



60 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Becomes 
richer and 
richer. 



Gunner's- 
room. 



Powder- 
room. 



small casks of rusks, each cask 
of the size of a beer quarter- 
keg, cans, glasses, two silver 
cups, bottles of wine, beer, oil 
and vinegar, the bunk with its 
curtains, chairs, benches, 
lamps, candle-sticks, a chest 
of candles, et cetera. 

Nor did matters stop here. 
"We became richer and richer, 
for I had not yet visited the 
gunner's room, and on enter- 
ing it, I found a great many- 
beds and chests, many cart- 
ridges in their holders, two 
parchment lanterns and two 
bottle-cases of brandy. 

I dared not go down into 
the powder-room for fear of 
the water. Having lowered 
the two bottle-cases and their 
bottles, I took them to my 
castle. Then further, I re- 
solved to cut an opening down 
in the gunner's room, so that 
through it the water [from 
the powder-room, if any] 
should relieve itself, and I 
took an auger of large diam- 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



61 



(158) 



Bread for 
six years. 



Transports 

more 

supplies. 



eter and bored through [from 
the gunner's room to the pow- 
der-room.] I was surprised 
that no water came out. 
[From outside the ship] I 
bored also in front of the 
powder-room, but there I im- 
mediately got water. I went 
again into the wreck, lighted 
a lantern, went down into 
the powder-room, which I 
found undamaged, entire and 
dry, where there was plenty 
of powder and cartridge- 
paper. (Cf. Dutch text.) 

On the other side was the 
bread-room, as dry as cork. 
In it I found for myself and 
Draager more bread than we 
needed for six years, and in 
addition many Leyden and 
cream cheeses, twenty-four 
bottle-cases, each with its key, 
and two unopened tuns — un- 
provided with spigots — that 
contained butter. 

When I had looked these 
things over, I brought some 
rusks and cheeses on deck, 






62 Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 

lowered them over the side, 
and took them to my castle; 
and after I had had some- 
thing to eat with Draager, we 
returned to the wreck. The 
water having discharged it- 
self, I saw some forty round 
pots, sealed on top with plas- 
ter. I did not know what was 
in them, but opened one. It 
was full of olive oil, a portion 
of which had presently to go 
to my fort, where I now had 
bread, cheese, oil, brandy, and 
all that I could desire besides. 
Next I had to investigate the 
casks that had been washed 
up onto the strand, and I went 
over there with my auger and 
some wooden stoppers or 
spigots. I found three casks 
of mum, 15 one of vinegar, 
d5») three of French and three of 
Rhine wine. I took a dram, 
while considering what I 
should do. 16 Roll them away 

i« A kind of beer. 

i fl Apparently the same cause operated here that act- 
uated R's drink on the wreck — trouble ahead. Cf. E., 
p. 56. 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



63 



Wine- 
vinegar. 



French 
wine. 



I could not. I had found with 
the oil-pots six more bottle- 
cases of brandy. This I 
poured away because I al- 
ready had more brandy than 
I wanted. Having brought 
the cases to the river, and 
having rinsed the bottles 
clean, I tapped into these four 
cases of mum and two of 
French wine. 

I had found also three 
empty ankers 17 in the round 
house, and filled two of them 
also with French wine, for I 
preferred that to Rhine wine. 
We took these also to my 
wine-hut. Having filled the 
third with wine-vinegar, I 
brought it into my castle, 
where I also poured away the 
brandy from a bottle-case and 
fetched French wine to fill 
the latter. 

I poured away so much 
brandy that I was able to 
draw off an entire hogshead 
of French wine into the 



it An "anker" has a capacity of ten gallons. 



64 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



(160) 



Enumera- 
tion of re- 
sources. 



empty bottles, and rolling the 
empty hogshead to the river, 
I rinsed it clean, and placed 
it under the dense shade of a 
tree where the sun could not 
come at it. I brought over 
here also another cask, and 
tapping into each of these the 
contents of a ten-gallon case, 
I found that Draager could 
pull them easily. Thus I got 
all the wine,, mum and vine- 
gar over as far as under the 
trees, where I well covered 
them in addition with boughs. 
I brought four bottle-cases 
of brandy out of my castle 
again, and took them to the 
brandy-hut, where I now had 
twenty-four cases of brandy 
stacked up in piles alongside 
of one another. In the bread- 
hut I had sixteen chests of 
ship-biscuit and three quar- 
ter-casks of rusks; in the 
cheese-hut, fourteen Leyden 
and twenty-seven cream 
cheeses ; in the oil-hut twenty- 
four round pots of oil ; in the 



179. [R. makes a 
recapitulation of 
his resources.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 65 

powder-hut, thirty-eight cart- 
ridges in their eases and six 
plastered chests full of filled 
cartridges. In this I had, be- 
sides, sixteen reams of cart- 
ridge paper. In the rush-hut 
I had many bundles of dried 
rushes; in the wood-hut, dry 
twigs and split-wood with a 
big pile of the latter nearby 
in addition. In the salt-hut I 
had six plastered chests of 
salt, besides six bundles of 
stockfish which I had re-dried. 
Moreover, I had a hutful of 
hammocks and clothing, and 
in my castle a fine bed with 
all its appurtenances, two 
bottle-cases of brandy, one of 
Rhine and one of French 
wine, a bottle-case of mum 
and one of wine-vinegar; be- 
sides, an "anker" of French 
wine, a quarter cask of rusks, 
a chest of ship-biscuit, a chest 
of candles, a tea kettle, with a 
dozen cups and saucers; tea, 
coffee-beans, and a remnant 
of sage. 



66 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Kettles, &c. 
(181) 



Compares 
his life to 
that of a 
kingr. 



All of these I fetched out of 
the bread-cellar with three 
new kettles, linen and woolen 
in sufficiency, tobacco, pipes, 
and what not. 

Now I lived the life of a 
king and in addition had the 
companionship of my dog. 



175. "like a King 
I din'd too all 
alone, attended by 
my Servants; . . . 
My Dog ... sat 
always at my 
Eight Hand," etc 
[Cf. 117,151,286.] 



Goes into 
the wood 
for diver- 
sion and 
for game. 



At one time, taking a fine 
flint-lock musket 18 (for I now 
had six of them), I went into 
the forest for diversion, and 
also to see if I could get a 
bull. After I had walked 
about half an hour, I saw 
from afar an exceedingly 
large bird which was sitting 
on a high tree. I crept up as 
near to him as possible, and 
standing behind a large tree 
and laying my gun over a 



70. "I went out 
once at least every 
Day with my Gun, 
as well to divert 
myself, as to see 
if I could kill any 
thing fit for Food," 
etc. [Cf. p. 212, 
where E., enumer- 
ating his muskets 
for the third time, 
adds one to their 
number, and uses a 
similar form of 
statement. Cf. p. 
31.] 

M The cabin-boy did not include this in any of his in- 
ventories, and by bringing it in thus subsequently he 
gives variety to his narrative. In the same way he later 
introduces a sounding-line and lead (162), his spy- 
glass (165) and two large hooks with chains. (162). 
His spy-glass is one of the few articles from the wreck 
to be thus introduced by E. On this point cf. further, 
p. 69. 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



67 



Kills a 
Urge bird. 



Descrip- 
tion of 
bird. 

(162) 



limb, I shot him right in the 
breast, so that he dropped 
dead. He fell as heavily as a 
big sheep. It was a wonder- 
fully large and pretty bird; 
his body was of the size of a 
cassowary that I had seen at 
Batavia. He was too big to 
carry, so I went and got my 
wagon, and Draager had to be 
hitched up. On the back end 
of the wagon I had a projec- 
tion like that on a sled for 
pushing. I laid an axe with 
some rope on the wagon and 
we set out and found the bird. 
I placed him on the wagon 
and brought him to the castle 
where I viewed him with in- 
terest. His bill was curved 
like an eagle's beak, but 
blood-red. His head and 
breast were of a golden yel- 
low, and on his head he had a 
very beautiful red tuft. His 
neck as far as his back was 
green and blue, like that of 
some of our tame ducks at 
home, and his back was jet 



229. [After his re- 
turn from the 
Spanish wreck E.] 
"began to repose 
myself . . . lived 
easy enough. ' ' 
61. [On a previous 
"view" of the 
country, the day 
after he landed, 
E.] "shot at a 
great Bird which 
I saw sitting upon 
a Tree on the Side 
of a great Wood; 
... I took it to be 
a Kind of a Hawk, 
its Colour and 
Beak resembling 
it, but had no 
Talons or Claws 
more than com- 
mon, its Flesh was 
Carrion, and fit 
for nothing," [Cf. 
Introd., p. xlvii] 
84. "Nov. 14, 15, 
16 . . . kill'd a 
large Bird that 
was good to eat, 
but I knew not 
what to call it." 



68 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabies 



black. His wings were blood- 
red like the best parrot 
feathers, and so too was his 
tail. His legs were very large 
and black, and on them were 
very thick and red curved 
claws. His wings were ex- 
ceedingly large, the shafts be- 
ing more than twice as thick 
as swan's quills. I cut off his 
feet, wings and head, which I 
let dry. On stripping his 
body I found it very fat and 
white, and when cut up he 
was inconceivably fat inside, 
not strong but very sweet. I 
boiled and roasted from him 
several days. Draager and I 
gourmandized tidbits from 
him until he was gone. 

After some time I brought 
the' shallop into the basin, and 
made some oars from the 
wainscoting that I had broken 
out of the great cabin and out 
of the round-house ; for I had 
taken down all the bunks in 
the latter, the wainscoting 
and cupboards in the former. 



194. . . . "when 
wandring more to 
the West Point of 
the Island than I 
had ever done yet, 
and looking out to 
Sea, I thought I 
saw a Boat ... I 
had found a Pros- 
pective-Glass [sio] 
or two, in one of 
the Seamen's 
Chests, . . . but I 
had it not about 
me," etc. . . . 
[Note that the use 
of his spy-glass by 
E. comes after fif- 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



69 



Sounds 
the basin. 



(163) 



Hooks a 

monstrous 

fish. 



Now, I rowed sometimes for 
diversion in the basin, to fish 
there. I had taken the sound- 
ing line and the lead from the 
wreck, and once wishing to 
sound the basin, I found it, a 
cannon shot from land, quite 
fifty fathoms deep. I had 
found in the ship three large 
hooks with chains, used for 
catching sharks. Fishing with 
these for diversion in the 
basin, I tied a stout stake to 
the line for my float, with an- 
other good set-float. Lower- 
ing to the bottom the hook 
with a piece of meat on it, I 
at once had so vigorous a bite 
that my floats went under like 
lead. I slackened my line, 
and rowed quietly to land, 
where, having made the shal- 
lop fast, I pulled up very 
gently and got the float in 
sight, which again was 
dragged down, when I in turn 
paid out my line again. This 
continued well nigh four 
hours, during which I alter- 



t e e n years, al- 
though mention of 
it was made in a 
paragraph supple- 
mentary to the list 
of objects taken 
from the wreck. 
This forms a strik- 
ing parallel to the 
earlier narrative. 
Robinson intro- 
duces his Perspec- 
tive Glass (mis- 
printed • ' Prospec- 
tive ' ' in three 
places, pp. 194, 
215), and variously 
written ' * Glass, ' ' 
pp. 245, 274, 276; 
' • Glasses, ' ' pp. 
216, 220, 308; 
' ' Perspective, ' ' p. 
238, and Perspec- 
tive Glass, pp. 274, 
296.] 



70 Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



nately pulled in and paid out, 
until the fish being tired let 
himself be drawn near to the 
shore. 

I had passed my line over 
the thick limb of a tree that 
overhung the water, and over 
this I pulled and brought him 
up. As soon as I saw a great 
big head above the surface, 
that was more than mon- 
strous, 19 and such a danger- 
ous mouth stretched wide 
open, I ran frightened into 
my hut. When I looked out 
he was sinking gradually 
towards the bottom, drawing 
the line very gently after 
him. I tired him out and again 
gently drew him close to the 
shore, and two feet above 
the water, when I looked at 
him attentively. He was flat 
and quite as large as a good- 
sized table, well nigh like a 
(164) ray, and was of a brown color. 
Releases I took a cutlass and severed 



him. 



i»"Zeer monstereus" (Cf. E. C. 349, "vast mon- 
strous"). 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 71 

the line next to the chain, 
when he once more settled in- 
to the water and did not come 
to sight again. I thought of 
him very often, but never be- 
fore nor since that time have 
I seen such a monster. 



Shoots 
black 

swans. 



Again, once upon a time 
when I was on Outlook moun- 
tain, I saw a great many large 
black birds in the depresesion 
or outlet through which the 
basin discharges into the sea. 
I quickly loaded two guns and 
going thither I shot with two 
charges five of the birds, so 
close together were they, and 
getting one of them, I saw 
that they were black swans. 
They floated with the flood 
tide towards the basin. I 
fetched my shallop, picked up 
the other dead ones, brought 
them into a hut, plucked them 
and saved the feathers. Their 
grease was suitable for my 
lamp. I salted four and dried 
them in the smoke. In all my 



111. "I killM a 
Sea-Fowl or two, 
something like a 
Brand-Goose. ' ' 
83. "killed two 
Fowls like Ducks. ' ' 



72 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



(165) 



First use of 
spy-glass. 
Discovers 
people on 
the strand. 



First 
visit of 
savages. 



stay similar birds had not 
been there. I shot a good 
many of them for the grease, 
and for the feathers with 
which I filled four bed-ticks. 
After some time they went 
away and did not return. 

Now I and my Draager 
lived as we pleased. But the 
world and all that is therein 
and thereon are subject to 
change. After I had lived a 
considerable time very quietly 
and happily with my dog, 
thinking little more of the 
fatherland or of the ship, I 
was on one occasion on Out- 
look mountain, looking 
around with a spy-glass, when 
I discovered some people near 
the stake. This threw me into 
fear and into hope, for I did 
not know whether it would 
bring me good or ill, happi- 
ness or misfortune. 

Betaking myself to my 
castle, I loaded my six guns, 
closed my door and stopped 
the peep-holes, except one 



197. [After eigh- 
teen years on the 
island] "live just 
in the same com- 
pos 'd Manner as 
before . . . redu- 
e'd to my former 
calm, sedate way 
of Living." 



215. " mounted to 
the Top of the Hill, 
and pulling out my 
Prospective-Glass ' ' 
[sic] ... "I pres- 
ently found there 
was no less than 
nine naked Sav- 
ages." [First vis- 
itation, and first 
use of spy-glass by 
either exile! Cf. 
also 238.] 

215. "Then I pre- 
paid myself with- 
in, putting myself 
in a Posture of De- 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



73 



Prepares 

for 

defence. 






towards the strand. I bound 
Draager's muzzle so that he 
would not bark. Looking out, 
I saw men, women and chil- 
dren marching towards the 
wreck, entirely unconscious of 
my castle. They looked at the 
wreck and went on to the 
river where, finding my huts, 
they made frightful gestures 
and shouts which disturbed 
and frightened me a good 
deal. 



fence; I loaded all 
my Cannon, that is 
to say, my Muskets, 
which were mount- 
ed upon my new 
Fortification, and 
all my Pistols, and 
resolv'd to defend 
myself to the last 
Gasp, not forget- 
ting seriously to 
commend myself to 
the Divine Pro- 
tection, and earn- 
estly to pray to 
God to deliver me 
out of the Hands 
of the Barbar- 



Natives 
build fires. 



All of them together could 
not do anything to me in my 
castle, but they were, by my 
guess, about a hundred 
strong, and really could 
starve me out. From the 
wood-hut they fetched wood 
and thanks to its dryness 
made fire quickly, and appro- 
priated all of my dried fish 
that they could find. I wit- 
nessed all their doings through 
a peep-hole. They sat in five 



212. "I fancy 'd 
myself now like 
one of the ancient 
Giants, which were 
said to live in 
Caves and Holes in 
the Eocks, where 
none could come 
at them," etc. 
[This was after 
the first visitation 
of savages. Cf. su- 
pra, p. 215.] 



(166) 



74 Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 

Discover groups about the fires. While 
castie. they were eating, warming 

themselves and blustering 

about, one of them (I believe) 

saw my castle, whereupon he 

uttered a cry and all came 

shouting towards me, each 

running at the top of his 

speed. 

While they were still at the 
Trust in wreck, I prayed God that he 
God. would inspire in me what was 

best for me. The chances 

were that I could shoot the 

half of them dead, but I had 

no water. They could prob- 
ably very speedily have 

starved me out. Then, too, I 102 - " x had no 

could not know if still more !L at . er in m ? . whole 

Southlanders were approach- 
ing or not, and all this made 

me full of anxiety and fear. 

In case I came out, they could 

kill me. I knew of no remedy. 

God had saved me from so 

many dangers, I now prayed 

earnestly to Him again; and 

when I had finished, I kindled 

a fire in God's name, ate my 



Habitation. ! 



Compared with Rooinson Crusoe 75 



Fires a 
shot into 
the air. 



Goes 

towards 

savages. 



(167) 



fill of rusks, drank a cup of 
wine with them, and gave 
Draager his bellyful of fish 
and ship-biscuit. 

I fired a shot into the air, at 
which they all fell on their 
faces. I drank another cup of 
wine, and went out of my 
castle with my cutlass and a 
loaded gun. They lay at the 
side of the castle in the edge 
of the wood, still all on the 
ground ; when, coming out of 
my hut, I said to them, "Men, 
what country is this ? 20 and 
what people are you ? ' ' They 
all remained flat on the 
ground until I lifted one up 
by the hand, and made signs 
to him that the others also 
should stand up, which they 
did. Then I motioned to them 
that they should sit down. 
This I did with great polite- 
ness, with one arm out- 
stretched motioning down- 
wards to them, at the same 
time turning my head some- 

20(7/. The Isle of Tines. Boston, 1920, p. 57. 



34. "It is impossi- 
ble to express the 
Astonishment of 
these poor Crea- 
tures at the Noise 
and the Fire of my 
Gun ; some of 
them were even 
ready to dye for 
Fear, and fell 
down as Dead with 
the very Terror." 



241. "I took him 
up" [Friday] 
250. "taking him 
up by the Hand." 

243. "I made 

Signs for him to 

go," etc. [Of. p. 
249.] 



76 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Distrib- 
utes food 
to savages. 



what, at which they all again 
fell to the ground on their 
faces. They regarded me pos- 
sibly as one of their gods, be- 
cause I was white and had 
thundered. Having the gun 
in my hand, I fired it over 
their heads. They remained 
prostrate, lying there like 
dogs. Taking advantage of 
this, I fetched out another 
loaded gun, with a basket-ful 
of ship-biscuit, and taking my 
former position, I again lifted 
up a man, indicating to him 
that they should all stand up, 
which they did, and after I 
had distributed the biscuit 
among them, they became 
more at ease, took each other 
by the hand and danced thus 
around my castle, singing and 
sometimes clapping hands. 

They were all as naked as 
they were born, and without 
shame disburthened them- 
selves from behind and before 
like dogs, and that too with- 
out even turning themselves 




288. "for it was 
impossible to them 
to conceive that a 
Man could dart 
Fire, and speak 
Thunder, and kill 
at a Distance with- 
out lifting up the 
Hand, as was done 
now. ' ' 

251. "and I be- 
lieve, if I would 
have let him, he 
would have wor- 
shipped me and 
my Gun." 






216. "they were 
stark naked, and 
had not the least 
Covering upon 
them. ' ' 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 77 



around. This band was of 
two races, so far as I could 
see, some as black as pitch, 
with wool on their heads; 
others were russet-colored like 
fallen and dried leaves, and 
had long hair. The women 
had very thick bellies, and 
long drooping breasts, and 
were impudent bitches. 

After they had danced and 
shouted awhile, they all dis- 
appeared in the forest. I 
thanked God that he had de- 
livered me from this peril. 

I now believed myself to be 
above all danger, and went 
and examined my huts. I 
found that my wood and fish 
were mostly gone; the other 
things they had not touched. 

I thought it was now time 
to provision my castle, in 
case they should come again. 
I poured out the brandy 
from twelve anker-cases, and 
rinsing the bottles, I filled 
them with water and brought 
them into my castle, further 



216. "for an Hour 
and more before 
they went off, they 
went to dancing, 
and I could easily 
discern their Pos- 
tures and Gestures 
by my Glasses. ' ' 
[First visitation.] 
238. ' ' they were 
all dancing in I 
know not how 
many barbarous 
Gestures and Fig- 
ures their own 
Way, round the 
Fire." [Second 
visitation.] 

107. "I fill'd a 
large square Case 
Bottle with Water, 



78 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Gets more 
things 
from 
wreck. 



(1«9) 



furnishing it with four bottle- 
cases of mum, four cases of 
French and three of Rhine 
wine, and two of wine-vin- 
egar. From the bread-hut I 
brought over the remaining 
three casks of rusks, with six- 
teen chests of ship-biscuit, ten 
Leyden and twenty cream 
cheeses, twenty pots of oil, 
thirty bottles full of butter, 
thirty-six more cartridge 
cases with filled cartridges, 
besides of linen and woolen 
as much as I had room for, 
rope in sufficiency, kettles, 
axes, a shovel, et cetera. 

My castle was a half hour's 
walk from the wreck. I went 
to the latter with my wagon 
and brought away twelve 
more bottle-cases, after hav- 
ing set out the bottles which 
held brandy, and broken out 
the middle partitions; I 
brought the cases empty to 
my castle, to store things in. 
I piled chests and cases one 
upon another, up to nine and 



and set it upon my 
Table." 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



79 



Provides 
more space 
in castle 
by consol- 
idation. 



Adds fur- 
ther to his 
supplies in 
the castle. 



ten feet high. First, I filled 
the undermost, then setting 
an empty one on this, I filled 
that also, and so in succession. 
My ladder, chests, and bottle 
cases were my steps, by means 
of which I brought the empty 
containers into position. I 
left the peep-holes everywhere 
free. 

When these were all thus 
stowed away and piled up one 
upon another, I still had, in 
spite of the quantity, a very 
large and spacious chamber, 
for it was twenty-eight feet, 
measured across right in the 
middle, from one wall to the 
other. 

I had enough lamp-wieking 
and tinder, besides candles, 
lamp and candlesticks. 

Next, I had to provide my- 
self with fire-wood and salt, 
which I also fetched. Fur- 
thermore, I fetched as many 
empty chests from the gun- 
ner's room as I could store. 
With my dog I brought these 



78. "I had no 
room to turn my- 
self; so I set my- 
self to enlarge my 
Cave and Works 
farther into the 
Earth." 



80 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



(170) 



Harque- 
buses. 



Living in 
peace and 
plenty. 



into the castle, after having 
filled them with rope, rusks, 
and with whatever I fancied 
besides. Also, I concealed the 
rest of my cheese and oil. I 
now intended to defend my 
castle, provided no forces 
with firearms should come. 
My opinion was that I was 
well provided for six years. 

At one time, while I was 
examining the wreck careful- 
ly, I found two more casks of 
filled hand-grenades with 
fuses in them, and fetched a 
hundred and fifty over. 
Again, noticing the butter 
tubs, I filled three more bran- 
dy-ankers with butter. 

I found also four brass 
harquebuses 21 which I 
brought over, besides a keg of 
bullets. 

And now I had no more 
storage room, but was ready 
and provided with every- 
thing. I prayed to God that 
He would keep and help me, 

21 Swivel-guns. 



211. [R. removed 
to the newly found 
cave, for security, 
those things about 
which he was most 
anxious — his pow- 
der and spare 
arms.] 

213. "I was now 
in my twenty-third 
Year of Residence 
in this Island, and 
... I could have 
been content to 
have capitulated 
for spending the 
rest of my Time 
there, even to the 
last Moment, till I 
had laid me down 
and dy'd, like the 
old Goat in the 
Cave. I had also 
arriv'd to some lit- 
tle Diversions and 
Amusements," etc. 
[This was after 
the first visitation 
of the savages.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



81 



Makes pas- 
sage way 
and gate. 



Second 
mention of 
use of spy- 






Second 
visit of 
natives. 



(171) 



and continued to live in peace 
and plenty. 

I began to construct two 
fences, eight feet high, and 
eighteen feet long, one on 
each side of the door, extend- 
ing straight out, and in order 
not to be surprised, I closed 
this passage with a gate. I 
may add that I dared never 
go so far abroad as formerly, 
and always first scrutinized 
the wood or the river, and 
then used my spy-glass from 
the Outlook. 

In the course of time dur- 
ing the full moon, as I sat be- 
fore my door smoking, I 
heard in the direction of the 
wood a dreadful clamor and 
shouting that frightened me 
not a little. It approached 
nearer and nearer. I shut my 
gate and door as securely as I 
could, praying God for help. 
The noise went towards the 
river where it stopped. 

When day came, I saw at 
the river, by guess, probably 



[R 's parallel was 
his passageway 
through the rock, 
which he finally 
closed with a door, 
pp. 121, 247.] 

217. "yet all this 
while I liv'd un- 
comfortably, by 
reason of the con- 
stant Apprehen- 
sions I was in of 
their coming upon 
me by surprise." 

218. "and if I did 
at any time ven- 
ture abroad, it was 
not without looking 
round me with the 
greatest care and 
caution imagin- 
able." [Cf. also p. 
229.] 



82 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Mean 8 
war. 



Third men- 
tion of us.- 
of spy-glass 

Natives 
have 
painted 
faces. 



Fires into 
the air. 



Natives 
laugh. 



a thousand people, some with 
wooden spears, and others 
with large clubs with which 
they broke in pieces my huts, 
and then burned them; from 
which I perceived that it was 
war. Having loaded my 
harquebuses and guns, I made 
ready to fight. I could see, 
through my spy-glass, that 
some of the natives had en- 
tirely colored their faces with 
a yellowish paint, while others 
had rings around their eyes, 
and a streak over their fore- 
head and nose. Most of them 
were not painted at all. 

They were holding a coun- 
cil, so it seemed, after which 
they came running with yells 
up to the castle and beat upon 
it with their clubs amidst a 
great clamor. I fired a shot 
up into the air, and looked to 
see whether like the first band 
they also would fall to the 
ground, but they remained 
standing and laughed, and 
continued to beat just as hard 



238. [R's second 
mention of the use 
of his spy-glass 
was when he saw 
the Spanish wreck 
(p. 220). The se- 
cond visit of na- 
tives was his third, 
as it was also of 
S. Cf. supra p. 82, 
and references on 
p. 69 etc.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 83 



Shoots into 
band. 



Natives 
return. 
(172) 



Renew 
attack. 



on my fort, so I shot, through 
a peep-hole, one of the 
painted ones in the head, and 
he tumbled over. Then I fired 
another shot into the band, 
and they gave a mighty shout 
and fled to the wood, taking 
with them two or three that 
were dead or wounded. ' ' God 
be thanked thus far," said I 
to myself. I took a "roe- 
mer" 22 of wine on the vic- 
tory, and gave Draager a dish 
of fish. 

After about half an hour 
they came back with terrible 
shouts, but did not dare come 
very near, but went to the 
strand where they again held 
a council. Then twelve paint- 
ed ones with their wooden 
spears came forth up to my 
gate, but not being able to get 
it open, made signs to a group 
that had thick staves and 
clubs. These, after having 

22 A long-stemmed glass, bulging below the rim. The 
Germans have a saying, "Ehein Wein aus Roemern. " 
Drink Rhine wine from "roemers. " 



84 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabies 



Cuts off 
head of 
dead 
savage. 



forcibly broken open the gate, 

stepped into the passageway 

to my door, when I let fly at 

them with a harquebus loaded 

with musket-balls and ease- 
shoot. six. shotj at which six fell in their 

tracks, and the others went 
away on the run. I came out 
with a cutlass, killed those 
that were not dead, among 
whom was a youth whose 
head I eut off and threw out 
towards those that had re- 
tired, and they came and 
stood round about it. I went 
inside, loaded the harquebus 
as before, and then took three 
hand-grenades, and threw one 
into the crowd. They re- 
mained where they were 
standing and it struck. Some 
were wounded, but the others 
stood their ground. Indeed, 
even more came up, where- 
fore I threw my second and 
third in among them, which 
did good execution, for they 
yelped like dogs. They were 
still near by, so I took two 



242. [Friday cuts 
off the head of 
dead savage with 
Robinson 's sword. 
This was in this 
case also the sec- 
ond visitation of 
the natives. Cf. In- 
trod., p. xliii.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 85 



(173) 



Natives 
build fires 
and spend 
the night 
howling. 



Enemies 
return and 
indicate 
submission. 



guns and coming with these 
to the end of the passage-way, 
I fired one into the crowd. 
One man fell in his tracks, 
and another uttered a cry. 
Presently I fired my other 
gun also, whereupon they 
went yelping towards the 
strand. Whether they buried 
their dead there or cast them 
into the sea, I do not know. 

They went to the river 
where they made many fires 
and stayed by them that day 
and the whole night, all the 
while howling by turns, now 
at one fire and then at an- 
other. During the day I had 
repaired my gate. I slept 
quietly, for I had had a dram, 
and relied firmly on the wake- 
fulness of my dog. 

The sun had been up prob- 
ably an hour when my en- 
emies again drew near the 
strand, silently and without a 
cry. Then they halted, and 
after holding a council, as 
it seemed, twelve painted 



86 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



(174) 



heroes stepped out towards 
my castle with their wooden 
spears in their hands. I 
placed my harquebuses in 
readiness with my slow-match 
ignited and came with two 
loaded guns out in front of 
my door. At sight of me they 
fell upon their faces and after 
they had lain some time, one 
stood up, grasped an earthen 
sod, laid it on his head, 
crossed his arms before his 
breast, and came all bowed 
down towards me. When he 
stopped I motioned to him. 
He came right up to my gate, 
and squatting, laid both of 
his hands like an ape on the 
sod that lay on his head, also 
trying several times to speak, 
without looking at me. The 
main band were watching this 
from a distance, and his elev- 
en comrades remained lying 
on the ground. 

Having satisfied myself 
that everything was secure, I 
took my gun in my hand, 



Vol. II. 114. [On- 
ly in one passage 
does R. indicate a 
posture resembling 
in some degree 
that described in 
the other text : ] 
' ' their Posture was 
generally sitting 
upon the Ground, 
with their Knees 
up towards their 
Mouths, and the 
Head put between 
the two Hands, 
leaning down upon 
the Knees." [This 
has no such signifi- 
cance as squatting 
among the natives 
of Java, which 
even to this day 
indicates inferior- 
ity or submission. 
It's parallel to 
the squatting in 
Sjouke 's narrative 
was the aet of 
placing B's foot 
on Friday 's head 
by the latter. Cf. 
infra, p. 97.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 87 



hung a naked cutlass by a 
rope on my arm, and stepped 
to my gate (which was a stout 
hedge) where the native was 
squatting three or four steps 
away. I said to him, "Here, 
fellow, what do you want?" 
He looked up and I motioned 
to him to come to the hedge. 
When he reached it, he began 
to howl, and clapping on his 
breast pointed to the dead 
bodies and then to the sea, 
from which I concluded that 
he wanted to fetch the dead 
bodies away. Hereupon I 
made signs that the others, in- 
cluding those that lay on the 
ground, should leave. He 
turned around and called to 
them, whereupon they all got 
up and ran to the large band 
on the shore. 

I bade him stand still, 
Gives sav- wi^h h e ( jj ( j # j fetched some 

age rusks 

and wine, rusks and Spanish wine, 
which I ate and drank with 
him, I within, and he without, 
the gate. When I saw that 



88 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



(175) 
Native 
removes 
bodies 



Gives sav- 
age wine 
and rusks 
for the 
band. 



that pleased him, I indicated 
that he must come alone and 
take away the dead bodies, 
first retiring a short distance, 
which he did. 

After I had unfastened the 
gate and gone into my castle, 
where I was sitting inside my 
door, with my harquebuses 
and guns ready, he came into 
the passage and dragged the 
bodies, one by one, a bit away 
outside the gate, and threw 
them down in a heap. 

When he had fetched the 
last one and was outside, I 
came out again with wine and 
rusks. Motioning to him to 
stand still, I shut my gate 
very tight, and made a sign 
that he should come to me, 
which he did. I presented 
him with six rusks and a 
bottle of wine. Taking these, 
he again squatted, and after 
having snored like a sleeping 
person, he got up and went to 
the main band. I stayed at 
the gate in order to be able to 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



89 



(176) 



see whatever they might un- 
dertake to do. 

Thirty-six painted heroes 
with their spears came howl- 
ing up to the dead bodies, and 
lifting them, carried them to 
the large band. When they 
reached it, a terrible howling 
and yelling began. They 
marched thus to the river. 
Similar outbursts continued 
through the entire night, first 
at one fire, then at another, 
and sometimes at two fires to- 
gether, all of which I could 
see and hear. 

In the morning the corpse- 
bearer came right up to my 
gate where he began to howl 
dismally. Perceiving through 
my peep-holes that no other 
people were near, I came out 
with gun and cutlass. He was 
squatting as before, with both 
of his hands on his head. I 
made a sign that he should 
remain thus, and turning 
around, I was proceeding to 
fetch wine and bread for him. 



[R. includes a 
' ' howl ' ' in many 
of his descriptions 
of noise made by 
the natives:] 
Vol. II, 68. ''they 
gave two great 
skreaming 
Shouts. ' » 

Vol. II, 113. "dis- 
mal Skreaming and 
Howling! " 
Vol. II, 114, "they 
all run skreaming 
and yawling away, 
with a kind of a 
howling Noise." 
Vol. II, 116; : "rais- 
ed a hideous Cry." 
Vol. 11,270. "made 
such a Howling 
and Crying, that I 
never heard a 
worse Noise." 
Vol. 11,330. "rais- 
ed a howling Cry. ' ' 
Vol. II, 331. "a 
most hideous Out- 
cry and Howling." 

157. "Bread, I 
mean the Bisket. " 



90 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Natives 
retire. 



Draager barked, and when I 
looked back, this chap was 
away up on the fence, but as 
soon as I saw him, I shot him 
and he tumbled down on the 
outside, whereupon a uni- 
versal yell and mighty howl 
went up at the river. 

A painted man came out 
from the band, just as the 
dead one had done. I threw 
two biscuits to him, and al- 
lowed him to drag off the dead 
body. On the way several 
others met him to help him 
carry it. When they reached 
the dead one they yelled at 
the top of their lungs, and 
when they joined the band 
with the corpse, they all 
yelled equally loud, as if the 
uttermost ruin were ap- 
proaching them. Finally they 
went off into the forest. Any- 
body can think whether I was 
glad. Having closed my gate, 
door and peep-holes, I lighted 
a fire and boiled and roasted 
like a prince, making good 



Cf. 56, 63, "Bis- 
ket;" 97, 121,127, 
"Bisket - cake;" 
23, "Busk or Bis- 
ket of their 
Kind."] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



91 



cheer with Draager. I set up 
a victory-beaker, and laid my- 
self quietly to sleep for a long 
stretch into the following 
morning. 



(177) 



Inasmuch as I had paper 
enough, I wrote down all 
these events, and know them 
almost by heart from having 
read them often. 



75. "while my Ink 
lasted, I kept 
things very ex- 
act." [Cf. also p. 
122.] 



Consoli- 
dates con- 
tents of 
castle. 



To gain space in my castle 
I broke up my clay floor and 
threw it away. I embedded 
the oil pots in the ground, and 
consolidated my belongings as 
much in breadth and height 
as I could. I fetched more 
powder, case-shot and bullets 
from the wreck, with many 
more biscuit, and everything 
else that I considered neces- 
sary and could stow away. 

With crowbars and chisels 
I made four loop-holes, two 
towards the wood and one on 



179. [E. gained 
space by enlarg- 
ing his cave. Cf. 
supra, p. 36.] 



124. "This made 
me resolve to cut 
some more Stakes, 



92 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Plants 
sharp poles 
around 
his fort. 



Approach 
possible 
by only 
one way. 



Finds sods 
on fence 
poles. 



Third visit 
of natives. 



each of the adjacent sides, 
and plastered them well. 
Around my fort I put into 
the ground stakes sharpened 
at the upper-end, in two rows 
that were two paces apart. 
And now no one could get 
near me in the fort except 
through my passage-way. 



Once upon a time during 
the night Draager began to 
bark violently, yet I heard no 
noise; but on awaking in the 
morning, I saw that all my 
poles were covered with green 
sods. Frightened at this, I 
thought that if an enemy were 
numerous enough, they might 
easily bury my entire fort. I 
looked about in all directions, 
but perceived no one. When 
I let Draager out, he betrayed 
no suspicions. Throughout 
the entire day I kept a sharp 
lookout, but saw no one. In 
the evening I made a light 
and went to bed. In the early 



and make me a 
Hedge like this in 
a Semicircle round 
my Wall; I mean 
that of my first 
Dwelling, which I 
did ; and placing 
the Trees or Stakes 
in a double row, 
at about eight 
Yards distance 

from my first 
Fence, they grew 
presently, and were 
at first a fine Cov- 
er to my Habita- 
tion, and after- 
ward serv'd for a 
Defence also, as I 
shall observe in its 
Order. ' ' 

190. "I resolv'd 
to draw me a sec- 
ond Fortification, 
in the same Man- 
ner of a Semi-cir- 
cle, at a Distance 
from my Wall, 
just where I had 
planted a double 
Eow of Trees, 
about twelve Years 
before. . ." 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



93 



(178) 

Surround- 
ed at 
night. 

Fires at 
random. 



Outlook. 



night Draager began again to 
bark. Having screened my 
light, I quietly opened my 
loop-holes and silently level- 
ling my harquebuses I let fly 
in different directions. There- 
upon followed a terrible yell. 
Directly closing the loop-holes 
again, I loaded my weapons 
with a heavy charge, and 
brought them again to bear. 
After about two hours Draa- 
ger began again to growl. I 
stopped him from barking, 
and at once fired around 
again, at which again fol- 
lowed the same sort of cry. I 
stopped up my loop-holes, 
loaded my harquebuses again 
and went to bed, leaving the 
watch and all to Draager. 

When day came, neither 
my dog nor I perceived any 
danger, and I went out in- 
tending to go to the Out- 
look, but dared not do so for 
fear of being surprised. I 
therefore stayed all day at 
and in the fort, keenly on the 



214. "I was sur- 
priz'd with seeing 
a light of some 
Fire upon the 
Shore . . . (215) 
step'd short within 
my Grove, not dar- 
ing to go out, lest I 
might be surpriz'd 



94 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabies 



Natives 
build fires 
at night. 



(179) 



alert and keeping watch with 
Draager. In the evening, 
after I had shut fast my gate 
and door, I made a fire and a 
light. In the early part of 
the night Draager growled as 
before. Looking out through 
my peep-holes, I saw a great 
many fires, yes, fires without 
number, as well at the river 
and along the strand, as 
everywhere in the wood, 
which disturbed me some- 
what, though I speedily be- 
came calm, thinking that be- 
cause God had protected me 
so many times, He would pro- 
tect me now as well. 

Having placed everything 
in readiness that could serve 
in an approaching battle, and 
standing two lint-stocks close 
at hand, I gave Draager only 
a little to eat, so that he would 
not become drowsy. I ate 
some rusks with a little wine 
and went to bed, and slept 
until Draager waked me by 
barking. Then I heard a good 



. . . Then I pre- 
par'd myself with- 
in .. . not for- 
getting to com- 
mend myself to the 
Divine Protec- 

tion." 



Wreck 
afire. 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 95 

deal of noise, yells and calls, 
and what sounded sometimes 
as if there were singing. 

When I looked out, I saw 
the wreck in full flame, which 
so startled me that I could not 
stand. Creeping to my bunk 
I fainted away, but when I 
came to myself again, and 
realized the situation, I 
prayed to God, crying for 
help. After a few hours the 
fire reached the powder-room 
and caused a fearful blast, 
whereupon a terrible shout 
went up. The entire army 
was gathered near the wreck, 
dancing, jumping and sing- 
ing. In silence I awaited the 
outcome of it all, and placed 
myself entirely at ease, for I 
knew that I had food, drink, 
powder and lead, in a strong 
fort, where they could do 
nothing to me. 

When day came and there 
were no natives in sight, I 
stepped out well armed with 
Draager, went around my 



96 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Goes to 

burnt 

wreck. 

(180) 



Outlook. 



While he is 
asleep at 
the Out- 
look, castle 
is cap- 
tured. 



castle and looked in every 
direction with a spy-glass, but 
saw nothing unusual. 

Towards midday I thought 
I would take a walk over to 
the wreck and see what con- 
dition it was in. 

After I had had my mid- 
day meal, I went thither with 
Draager. I had a loaded gun 
hanging by a rope from my 
shoulder, and a cutlass 23 by 
my side. On my arrival there, 
I found some pieces and frag- 
ments, some of them still 
burning; tears moistened my 
eyes at the sight. I went with 
a sorrowful heart up to the 
Outlook to see if from there I 
could discover any people still 
in the vicinity. I saw not a 
soul, and sitting down there, 
I fell asleep. When I awoke 
I saw people at my castle. I 
was completely alarmed. I 
went down and walked slowly 
towards it, considering the 

2 3There is no mention of a scabbard anywhere in this 
narrative. 



216. "I took two 
Guns upon my 
Shoulders, and two 
Pistols at my Gir- 
dle, and my great 
Sword by my Side, 
without a Scab- 
bard." [ Cf. p. 
177. This was af- 
ter the first visita- 
tion of savages ac- 
tually witnessed by 
B.] 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 97 

while what I should do. As I 
neared the castle, I saw prob- 
ably thirty painted men, who 
had taken possession of it. 
Anybody can imagine my 
state of mind. I reflected 
"delay is dangerous," and 
determined to die or win back 
my fort. My courage was 
greater than ever, and I 
looked upon these people as 
Approaches no thing better than dogs. As 
I was walking right up to 
them, one of their number 
without his spear came to- 
wards me and squatted, as in 
the former case, and I mo- 
tioned to him to stand up, 
which he did. While we were 
standing quietly together, an- 
other of the group came to- 
wards me with a spear. About 
half-way, he threw from him 
his spear, and coming to 
(i8i) the first man, squatted. I 
motioned him to rise, which 
he did. Then he pointed to 
his people, beat upon his 
breast, and made a sign that 



Native 
squats. 



98 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Made pris- 
oner and 
stripped. 



no harm should happen to me. 
While I stood thus, thinking 
what I should do, I was em- 
braced and seized from be- 
hind. The two that stood in 
front of me also darted for- 
ward, and the six of them 
took away my gun, and pulled 
off my clothes. Then I was as 
naked as they, and thought 
naught else than that they 
would kill me, the more be- 
cause those that were near the 
fort came up on the run with 
their spears, yelling; but 
one of those that had seized 
me made a sign to them, and 
they all threw aside their 
spears, came up to me, and all 
squatted. 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 



99 



Natives 
dance and 
sing 
around 
him. 



(182) 



March 
away with 
prisoner. 



And immediately standing up again, they took 
each other by the hand, and sang and danced 
thus round about me. I motioned towards my 
castle, thinking were I only in it, *'I would teach 
you a different kind of dance!" The six that 
had undressed me and stood by me, together laid 
hold of me and I too had to dance with them,- 
whereupon the others clapped their hands and 
shouted as loud as they could. I danced in a 
sorrowful mood although I now perceived clearly 
that they did not wish to kill me. The dancing 
having ended, I again motioned them towards 
my castle, whereupon one shouted and some 
twenty more natives came out of it into view, 
who had concealed themselves there until now. 
When these joined us each man took up his 
wooden spear again. They placed me in their 
midst, and began to march along the strand. I 
kept looking at the fort, and as we passed it, I 
began to weep, over which they did not once con- 
cern themselves. We passed also the stake where 
I had dug up my chest et cetera, at the sight of 
which my heart became more and more op- 
pressed. Then, having walked along the strand 
about six hours, they turned to the left into the 
forest, and after a half hour came to a halt, and 
got some fruit of which we all partook. They 
broke boughs from the trees, and placed them 
on the ground for their bedding with me in 



100 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



(183) 



Small bas- 
kets for 
smudges. 



Mosquitoes 
and flies. 



their midst, and gave some to me, which I 
laid under a big tree, and lay down upon them 
naked, and became as cold as ice. They lay 
round about me, sleeping quietly, except six that 
remained awake all the time and sang as they 
held watch over me, and periodically were re- 
lieved by others. On account of their singing 
and the cold I could not sleep. Noticing that, 
they made a fire, and laid me by it; I recovered 
somewhat. I commended myself to God, and 
awaited patiently what should happen, thinking 
continually of my castle. 

In the morning we resumed our march, and 
after an hour came out of the forest at a pool 
where there were about a thousand little baskets, 
woven from thin twigs, of a fashion and size like 
a gunner's lantern. Of these each person took 
one, and they gave me one also. I examined it, 
and found that its bottom inside and halfway 
up was lined with clay or potter 's earth, and that 
in it there was the bark of some kind of tree. I 
could not realize what this meant, but after an 
hour's walk, when the sun was somewhat higher, 
I saw millions of mosquitoes and flies come up 
out of the marsh, whereupon the people quickly 
set fire to the bark in their baskets, and made it 
smoke. This smoke had a pleasant odour, and 
kept all the mosquitoes and flies away from 
us. Having passed this morass, we came towards 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 101 

evening again into a wood, where they at once 
made fire, and proceeded to lie down around it, 
guarding me as before. 

In the morning we marched on again, and 
again came out on to the strand at a great bay. 
Proceeding along the strand about two hours, 
we encountered a river, and after having walked 
along it, we again entered a wood, where many 
fruits were growing. About midday we made a 
(184) halt, and another band joined us. The first all 
squatted. After that, they stood up and sang 
and danced like mad. The others had brought 
fruit with them, and after it had been distrib- 
uted, we went on again. After about two hours ' 
march we found floating in the river many rafts 
tied fast with ropes to trees that stood on the 
use rafts bank. By means of these, we set ourselves across, 
and went on till we came to another river, again 
doing with the rafts that lay there, as we had 
done before. Having in this manner passed 
about six or seven rivers, we came to a sandy flat. 
We had now marched some seven or eight days. 
I was tired and dispirited, although they had 
done me every service they could. We crossed 
over this plain, and again entered the forest, 
when they all began to sing, some running ahead 
during the singing. I saw many people and huts 
afar off. When we approached them great num- 
bers of the people came towards us to see me. 



102 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



Comet be- 
fore aged 
chief. 



(185) 



Is married 
to native. 



We still went on, and I came in front of a large 
hut, where an oldish man sat in the door, before 
whom we all had to squat. After having looked 
closely at me he made me come to him. He held 
a long discourse with those that had captured me, 
but I could not understand what was said. 

When they had ended their discourse, I had to 
go into the big hut, where I saw four naked 
youths and six naked young females. These all 
came up to me, inspected me very closely, 
touched and felt my body all over. I stood there, 
stupidly, not knowing what they were going to 
do with me. After an hour all in the hut 24 be- 
gan to sing and to dance around me, in which 
the master of the house also took part, and then 
one of the aforenamed females came and 
squatted before me. They motioned to me that 
I, too, must squat, and when I did so, the old 
man stood up and laying a hand on the head of 
each of us, began to shout so loud that I was 
frightened. Then those that were outside the 
hut answered. Those inside again began to sing 
and to dance, and those outside the hut did the 
same. This having lasted by guess a half hour, 
the young woman stood up, took me by the hand 
and walked outside with me, followed by the 
others. She led me to a neighboring empty hut, 

2*" Tent" — synonymous with "hut." 



Compared with Robinson Crusoe 103 

where this daughter and I went in. The others 
shut the door, after which they went away sing- 
ing and we two remained alone by ourselves in 
the hut. 

(186) I looked all through the hut, and saw in it a 
basket with roasted fish that was still warm. She 
took a herring out of it with her hand, opened it 
and offered it to me. I took time by the forelock, 
thinking I should recognize the opportunity and 
make use of it, and feast as much as I could. 

After this the door of our hut was opened, and 
I followed her out. She led me again into the 
big cabin, where roast meat, fish and eggs were 
set before me. Having eaten hurriedly, we went 

(187) to the river to catch fish. When evening came, I 
had to go to our hut again with my heathen, 
where we remained sleeping until morning. My 
greatest hardship was that I had to go naked. 25 

itcry. I had lived thus a month or two, when there 

arose one night a frightful outcry, which be- 
came more and more intense. My companion also 
cried and wept. I was frightened. She em- 
braced me all in tears, then releasing me she 
went and squatted, beating on her breast. I 
pushed open the door of our hut and saw in- 
numerable fires around as far as my vision could 

25 R. ** could not abide the thoughts of . . . going 
naked." 158. 



104 Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 

reach, but did not know what it all meant. She 
indicated to me that it was our enemies, who 
would kill us. I motioned in return that we 
should flee. She made a sign that we were sur- 
rounded. We went together to the big cabin. 
The old man sat there dejected and groaning. 
Taking a wooden spear, I asked for warriors to 
go to meet the enemy, but the old man, shaking 
his head, got a horn, went to the door of the 
cabin and blew as hard as he could; thereupon 
followed the sound of about a hundred horns. 
Not knowing what that meant, I went to my hut, 
taking a wooden spear with me with the inten- 
(188) tion of protecting myself, whoever might come 
against me. My female companion followed me, 
lamenting and weeping. In the course of time 
day came, and I saw afar off several groups of 
men, people clothed and armed — to my great 
amazement. I also heard shooting, which ap- 
peared still more strange. Taking my female by 
the hand, I motioned to her that she should go 
with me towards the place where the shooting 
was. It seemed to me they would not kill me. 
She was unwilling to do so, and I went alone to 
meet the enemy, and came to a troop of horse, 
and when the captain saw me, he halted. I fell 
on my knees and clasped my hands together. He 
motioned to me to come to him, which I did, and 
was narrowly inspected by him. He caused a 






Compared with Robinson Crusoe 105 



Is clothed 
and 

mounts a 
horse. 



(189) 



Slaughter 
of savages 



coat, breeches and a hat to be given me, also a 
horse onto which I climbed, but not having sat a 
horse much in my life, one can think how that 
went. I rode in the front rank. And so riding 
gently forward we "came to our hut. I pointed 
out to the captain that this was the hut where I 
lived, and asked him with folded hands to spare 
it. He at once placed several horsemen before 
the door, among whom was myself. Now I saw 
different troops coming from all sides. A cannon 
was fired, at which signal there began a murder- 
ing that was pitiful to see. Not only men and 
women, but children willingly let themselves be 
killed, without defending themselves more than 
did the ancient Jews on their Sabbath. This 
moved me to cry out, when an under-officer look- 
ing at me sternly, rattled his sword, so I had to 
be silent, because he was in command of us who 
were in front of the hut. I asked him if I might 
go into the hut, which he with a sign permitted. 
I got off the horse and went in. All in the hut 
began to shout, and squatted. I hem-hem 'd to 
them, whereupon they became silent. This I had 
learned from the old man, who did that when he 
wished to be heard. They knew me from my 
white face, and from seeing my hands and feet, 
and my female darted to me and embraced me 
in tears. Upon my saying "hem ! hem !" she be- 
came still. She gave me a roasted fish and some 



106 



Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 



(190) 



Sjouke 
goes to 

Ki suits 



eggs, which I distributed among my fellow horse- 
men in addition to some fruit, which they ac- 
cepted and ate. It was strange that all these 
people so willingly let themselves be put to 
death, without offering the least resistance, just 
as if they all were doomed to a religious sacri- 
fice. 26 

The massacre being ended, I rode as a newly 
captured horseman back with my troop, without 
knowing whither. After some days' march we 
came to an arm of the sea, where many rafts lay, 
some with two, others with three or four sails; 
by these we were all set over. 

Our company was a hundred men strong, rid- 
ing in ten ranks. Each rank had an officer or 
corporal. On their standards was a golden sun 
in blue satin, in which the angel Baloka in a 
purple garment was seated, writing. This had 
more eyes than are ever represented on Argus. 
His appearance was very wonderful, because it 
consisted altogether of eyes, ears and hands, 
which appeared strange to me. We were the first 
company to return, of three thousand horsemen, 
being auxiliaries which this island, Krinke 
Kesmes, had loaned to her neighbors. Upon 
landing, I was placed in a peasant's house until 
an order came from Kesmes that I should go 
thither. On my arrival at Kesmes I was brought 

26 As described on page 83 of Krinke Kesmes. 



Compared ivith Robinson Crusoe 101 



into a scholastic assembly where twenty-four very 
eminent men were sitting. The chairman made 

(191) me sit at a small table, on which were paper, pen 
and ink. They indicated to me that I must write, 
and after I had done so, my writing went around, 

Writes out and each of these gentlemen inspected it in turn, 
his adven- until an illustrious looking man, receiving it into 
his hand, read it aloud, and rising, asked me in 
good Dutch how I had come to the Kaskes nation 
(which word means "stranders," or "strand- 
dwellers " ) . In reply I recounted what had hap- 
pened to me; at which they all wondered,. He 
bade me write out all this, which I readily did, 
because I knew it by heart, as well as I did my 
ABC's. 

After I had delivered up my paper, it was at 
once translated into the language of the country. 
In the afternoon ten lads came to me, greeted me 
in the Dutch tongue, which they could speak, 
read and write very well. 

After three days I was sent from the capital 
Kesmes to this city Taloujael to teach the Dutch 
language to young people here as my life work, 
which I am still doing. 

They give me very honorable maintenance, and 
my school is never larger than six young people, 
whom I instruct in the Dutch language and 

(192) teach them to understand, speak, read and write 
it. 



108 Narrative of Sjouke Gabbes 

These Southlanders think that the happiness 
of their country and their good and very 
excellent government alone depend upon the 
proper education of the youth, and therefore no 
rags of women may be school mistresses, nor 
drunken tipplers, nor ill-mannered men, school- 
masters here. Such are despised as much as 
those that lack natural intelligence, or are idlers 
and cants and not smooth-tongued. 

They believe here that all, or most faults that 
are peculiar to many people, are those received 
in their youth from their tutors and teachers, 
and that the same remain by them through force 
of habit. Therefore the schoolmasters here must 
be intelligent, very attentive, provident and 
courteous. I have subjected myself to their laws 
and still live in accordance therewith as honor- 
ably as I can. Therefore I have been presented 
with this red coat and this red cap, which are 
garments of honor here. 

The sign embroidered on my breast means, in 
the language of this country, El-ho, that is free- 
man. 






DE HISTORIE VAN DEN EL-HO 



DE HISTORIE VAN DEN EL-HO 

(125) IK was een Jonge van twaalf jaaren, en kon 

leesen en schryven als ik op Batavia voor Jonge 
in Kompagnies dienst aankwam, dit was in het 
jaar 1655. Daar drie maanden geweest zijnde, 
wierd my gelast om den aankomenden morgen, 
my met mijn kist te vervoegen op het Schip de 
Wakende Boey, dat na 't Zuidland zou zeilen, om 
de Schipbreukelingen van het Schip de Goude 
Draak, welk daar vergaan was, van daar te 
haalen, en op Batavia te brengen. 

"Wy daar komende, vonden het Wrak van 't 
Schip, schoten drie kanonschoten tot zein dat 
wy daar gekomen waren, maar niemand vertoon- 
den hem op 't strand ; wy niemand verneemende, 
voeren met de Boot en Sloep na Land, om het 
daar gebleven Volk van de Goude Draak op te 
zoeken, dog dat alles was vergeefs, wy vonden 
geen leevend mensch of dier, maar een dor Land 
en naakte Strand, veel doornen en kreupel-bosch. 

Daar een dag vergeefs gezogt hebbende, zeil- 
den wy den tweeden dag de kust eenige uuren 
langs, elk glas een kanonschoot doende, zetten 
weer Volk naa Land om te zoeken, maar vonden 
niemand, dog zaagen eenige drukkingen van 
bloote voeten in 't zand. 



(126) 



112 Be Historie 



Den derden dag zeilden wederom by 't "Wrak. 
Settend daar wat van daan voor anker, de Boot 
wierd geordineerd de Strand langs te ontdekken, 
op hoope of zy 't Volk van de Goude Draak 
mogten vinden ; de Boot was voor eenige daagen 
met waater, eeten en drinken voorsien, deese ging 
van Boord de Wal langs ; van haar weedervaaren 
weet ik niet, ook niet of zy 't Volk gevonden 
hebben of niet. 

Voort naa 't afgaan van de Boot, wierd de 
Sloep naa Land gesonden, met twaalf Man om 
weeder te gaan zoeken, ik raakten als jonge 
meede in de sloep, begeerig om ook eens op 't 
Land te treeden, op hoope van eenige ververs- 
sing te vinden, want ik had al eenigen tyd in het 
Schip als opgesloten zonder ververssing geweest, 
in zulk een geleegendheid verlangd elk naa land 
en ververssing. 

Ik gelijk een jongen, was blijde dat ik meede 
aan land kwam, ik dagt weinig om te zoeken naa 
(127) 't Volk van de Goude Draak, 't was my om ver- 
verssing te doen. Wy aan land treedende, 
gingen landwaard in, na gissing wel drie uuren 
gaans, als wanneer wy aan een Bosch kwamen. 
Hier dagt ik niet anders als om ververssing of 
eenige vrugten te zoeken. Ik als een jonge my 
van 't Volk stille afzonderende, zonder eens te 
denken als ik in 't Bosch was hoe daar weder uit 
te komen. Ik agter aan gaande, verbergde my 



vcm den El-ho 113 



agter wat kreupel-bosch, en raakten dus bosch- 
waard in, en was blijde dat ons Volk my uit het 
gesigt was, ik stak een pyp tabak aan, daar meede 
ging ik het Bosch in; dog naa ontrent een uur 
zoeken geen vrugten of ververssing vindende, 
wilde ik weeder keeren, en ons Volk of 't strand 
zoeken, ik ging wel twee uuren om uit het Bosch 
te komen, maar ik verdwaalden hoe langer hoe 
meer: ik riep, ik schreiden, ik kreet tot heesch 
wordens toe ! ik was vol schrik en vrees, mijne 
benaudheid was onuitspreekelijk ; nu zag ik eerst 
dat ik een jonge was, en jongens werk gedaan 
had, dat in my het aldersmertelijkste berouw 
baarde. Wat zoude ik doen? ik was moede 
geloopen, heesch gekreeten, benaud van herten, 
mismoedig van gedagten. Ik wierp my onder 
een Boom ter aarde, zugtende, kermende, en God 
biddende dat hy my wilde helpen; den avond 
(128) viel, en ik raakten door vermoeidheid in slaap. 
Ontwaakende, was ik door koud, en de duister- 
heid baarden in my zoodaanige schrik en vreese, 
dat my mijn hairen te berge reesen, ik beefden 
als een blad, en het geruisch der Boomen zoo 
wel als de zuisende wind, ontstelden my elk 
oogenblik, mijn beklemd gemoed was doodlijk 
benaud, jaa zoodaanig, dat niemand als die in 
de schrikkelijkste doods gevaren zijn geweest, 
dat kan denken, weeten of begrijpen. Ik zugten 
inwendig tot God om hulpe, tot dat den dag 



114 



De Historie 



(129) 



begon op te komen, dat my vry wat verligte; 
ik stond op, wist niet waar te gaan, wandelden 
om de wermte te krijgen wat heen en weer, stak 
om de koude mijn handen in de sak, daarin 
voelden ik mijn mes, tabaks-doos, vuurslag, 
tonteldoos, en een Bischuit, dit verheugden my 
niet weinig; dieper tastende, vond ik een 
kluwentje touw met eenige hoeken, my van een 
Matroos in bewaring gegeven, daar ik, zoo ik op 
strand bleef, meede visschen zou; dit gezegde 
was nu al mijn rijkdom, mijn Scheepsplunjen 
waren niet veel waard, gelijk elk Zeeman weet 
wat een Jonge op 't Schip aan heeft. 

Ik peurden weer te gang om uit bet Bosch te 
raaken, altijd roepende, 6 Heere ! helpt my. Ik 
wenschten duisend maal dat ik een Berg mogt 
ontmoeten, van waar ik de Zee ontdekken kon, 
of een Riviere die my tot aan de Zee zoude 
brengen, maar hoe ik meerder zogt, hoe ik al 
meerder verdwaalde, niet eens om eeten of 
drinken denkende. Ik nam een besluit van altijd 
regt uit te gaan, waar my God ook brengen 
wilde; dus doende, kwam ik teegen den avond, 
wat voor Sonnen ondergang, by een moerassige 
Poel; waater ziende, dagt ik op drinken; dat 
proevende, bevond het selve wat brak te zijn. 
Groef een weinig daar van daan met mijn 
handen een kuil, daar vers waater in kwam ; ik 
dronk, en wierd verkwikt ; het waater in de poel 



van den El-ho 115 



was drabbig, bruin, en rood-agtig, als veen-poel- 
waater, of daar verrotte blaaden in zijn. Hier 
zat ik al weer zugtende, en schreijende, mijn 
droevig weenen had geen einde ! geduurig zugten 
ik ; zeggende, og ik arcne Jonge ! wat zal ik doen ? 
waar zal ik heen ? 6 God ! helpt my ! 

Ik at mijn halve Besehuit op, rookten een 
halve pijp Tabak, en dronk uit mijn kuil; dit 
alles verkwikten my kragtig. Ik bedagt my wat 
ik doen zoude in zulk een uitterste nood; 
Mensschen hulp ontbrak my, dies ging ik uit nood 
tot God ; ik maakte mijn koussen los, viel op mijn 
(130) bloote knien neder, en riep tot God om hulpe; 
bad het Avond-gebed en het Vader Onse. Ik 
wierde zelf zoo beweegd onder het bidden, dat 
ik neer viel, en wierd flaauw en als van mijn 
zelve. Dit duurden tot het duister was; en ik 
moede zynde, leide my needer, en raakte al 
schreijende in slaap. Ik sliep den geheelen nagt 
door, en wierd wakker als de Son op was, dat 
my verblijde. 

Nu begost ik op myn behoudenis te denken; 
ik zat bij mijn waaterkuil, en verheugden my in 
't vers waater, en dagt, dit is nog beeter als 
het stinkend waater te Scheep. Met scheen het 
my of ik aangestoten wierd, ik omsiende, zag 
niemand, en Bosch-waard in ziende, zag een zeer 
dikken hogen Boom, die zeer kenbaar om sijn 
dikte was ; opstaande, ging daar naa toe ; by den 



116 De Hist or ie 



zelven komende, gaf God my in, dat ik Boomen 
zou teikenen, om mijn waater niet te verliesen; 
ik mijn mes van leer, en schilden hem zoo wat 
of; ik maakten met mijn mes een houten 
beiteltjen tot het boom schillen, om mijn mes 
wat te sparen. Ik maakten ook een klein houten 
schupje, en nam een brave tak die ik voor aan 
scherp sneed, en agter aan een braven knobbel 
had, dit was mijn geweer. Ik wierd hoe langer 
hoe geruster, en ik begon onder dien Boom, daar 
(i3i) 't wat hoog was, een Hutje van takken op te 
regten; onder mijn werken kwam het my weer 
voor als of ik gestoten wierd; omsiende, zag 
weeder niemand, maar verre van my ook zulken 
dikken Boom ; ik laatende de begonnen hut staan, 
stapten naa dien Boom toe, welke ook rondom 
ontbast hebbende, en doen weeder naa een die 
verder stond, dit zoo vervolgende, raakten wel 
een uir of anderhalf van den poel. 

Ik zogt al voort, en dat op een linie regt uit, 
om metter tijd uit dit eensaam Bosch te raaken ; 
in 't gaan vond ik een Appel ! 6 Heer ! wat was 
ik blijde. Ik zag op, en was onder een wilden 
Appel-boom; mijn kodde-spiets en schupje van 
my werpende, klom ik met groote vreugde den 
Boom op, at mijn buikje vol, en plukten zoo 
veel, die ik onder den boom in 't gras smeet, 
dat ik afkomende, mijn hoed en beide koussen 
vulde, en nog eenige liet leggen. 



van den El-ho 117 



Ik van boom tot boom die geteikend had weder 
te rug, en by mijn eersten dikken boom komende, 
die als op een kleine hoogte stond, groef ik een 
kuil, welke onder met blaaden beleide, daar mijn 
appels op ley, die weeder met blaaden dekte, en 
boven met sand oversmeeten hebbende, had ik 
een modhol. 
(132) Ik stak eenige takken in de grond, die boven 

wat vlegtende, en dagt, dat mijn takken niet 
dekken, moet den Heemel dekken. 

Nu wandelden ik naa mijn waater, dan naa 
mijn hut, om al wandelende to overdenken wat 
ik doen zou ; mijn droefheid en benaudheid ver- 
minderde hand over hand. 

In mijn hut sittende, en een appel eetende, 
dagt ik lieve God, wat is des menschen leven, 
hoe swerft men van 't eene Land in 't ander om 
geld en goed, ik heb maar Waater en Appels, 
en ben nu wel te vreeden als ik die maar krijgen 
kan, dat ik mijn Appelen nu voor goud ver- 
ruilen kon, ik zou dat waarlik niet doen. 

Wanneer den avond viel, bad ik God, en lei 
my in mijn hut op wat takken en blaaden ter 
neer, slaapende veel geruster als te vooren; des 
morgens ontwaakende, begon ik bedaarder op 
mijn behoud te denken, jaa zoodaanig, als of ik 
in 't bosch mijn leven zou moeten einden, dat ik 
te vooren door al te grooten droefheid en angst 
niet doen kon. 



118 De Hist or ie 



My dagt dat ik eerst eens zou drinken, dan 
naa mijn appel-boom gaan, en die daar nog onder 
leggende appelen bergen; daar naa de boomen 
zoo als ik begonnen had al voort te teekenen of 
das) t'ontbasten; en dat op een regte lijn, om zoo 
eindelijk uit het bosch te geraaken, en agt op alle 
Fruit-boomen te nemen ; zoo gedagt, zoo gedaan. 

Ik peurden na myn appel-boom, met myn 
kodde-spies gewaapend; daar komende, vulden 
ik mijn sakken met die daar onder geleegen ap- 
pelen; en al regt uit voortgaande, ontschilde ik 
de boomen op zoodaanigen verheid, dat ik die 
makkelijk kon sien, nu en dan eenige vrugt- 
boomen vindende, die bysonder teekende, tot ik 
naa eenigen tijd zoo ver kwam, dat een klein 
soet Riviertje vond, waar ontrent zig ook 
verscheiden en meer Vrugt-boomen vertoonden, 
welke ik niet en kende; maar at daar van in 
Godsnaam ; zy bekwamen my wel. 

Nu vergat ik mijn Mod-hol, Poel en Appel- 
boom; ik volgden de Rivier, welke my naa 
eenigen tijd uit het Bosch geleide, tot aan een 
Berg, aan wiens voet een groote kom van brak 
Waater was, daar hem deese Rivier in ontlaste, 
en die kom outlaste haar weeder door een smalle 
sleuf in Zee, zoo als ik daar naa bevond. 

Ik rusten by deese kom, en sag een Visch 
springen, kreeg een hoek met mijn tou, bragt 
die met mijn kodde-spies te waater, aan de hoek 



van den El-ha 119 



een stukje appel doende, en ving voort een goede 

(134) Baars, dien ik schoon maakte, en van desselfs 
ingewand weeder aanslaande, ving ik nog vijf 
a. ses schone Baarsen, die schoon maakende, bried 
ik die aan houte speeten, zy smaakten lekker en 
goed. 

Mijn Tondel was weinig, dies tornden ik een 
mouw uit mijn hembd, daar de brand in 
steekende, doofden dat tusschen mijn beide 
Schoenen uit ; nu was mijn Tondel-doos weer vol, 
en ik van alles klaar. Wei gegeten en gedronken 
hebbende, klom ik den Berg op, van wiens top ik 
de Zee kon zien, naar gissing een groot uur gaans 
ver; dien Berg was maar een hogen heuvel, als 
alleen in het vlakke land staande. 

Ik had wel gegeeten, als gezegt heb, en wan- 
delden naa de Zee, op hoope of ons Schip of Volk 
daar nog was ; maar vond niemand. De Strand 
dus langs wandelende, zag ik geduurig om, dat 
den Berg niet uit mijn gesigt raakte ; ik al voort- 
gaande, dagt my dat ik een Mast zag agter een 
Duin, en met sijn top daar boven over uitsteek- 
ende ; my dagt ook dat ik voetstappen zag, doch 
deeze verdweenen weeder. 

Op de Duin komende, zag ik een opgeregte 
Staak, daar een Tinnen plaat aan was gespijkerd, 
daar de naam van de Sehipper en het Schip op 

(135) stond, daar ik meede gekomen was. Dit ont- 
stelden my weeder op 't nieuw, en egter was my 



120 



De Historie 



(136) 



deese staak of paal en bord, als half geselschap- 
agtig; ik was een Jongen, en kusten de Staak 
verscheiden maal met betraande oogen. 

Ik setten my neder met de rug tegen den paal, 
het hoofd in de hand, en zag bedroefd te Zee- 
waard in. Ik rees weder op, heen en weder 
voorby die staak wandelende, en dikwik het bord 
leesende, besloot ik de Paal met mijn handen los 
te graven, alzoo die in duin-sand stond, om dat 
ik de spijkers daar uit dagt te krijgen ; dit den- 
kende, trad agter de staak om daar naa te sien, 
en zoo als ik na de spijkers en de paal van 
agteren zag, wierd ik een Brief je en een tinnen 
plaatje daarboven gewaar, welke daar gespijkerd 
waaren ; vindende daar op, Jongen, graaft agter 
deese Staak; dit ontstelden my nog meer, als 
eerst de staak had gedaan; een koude grilling 
reed mij door de leeden, mijn hairen reesen my 
te berg, ik wierd benaud, en vreesden zeer, ik 
beefden, en wist niet waarom. Ik zetten my weer 
needer tegen den paal, tot dat ik bedaarde. Doen 
nam ik mijn kodde-spiets, en begon te peilen in 
't zand, en vond iets hards, omtrent een vadem 
agter de staak ; ik trok met mijn handen aan 't 
krabben, tot ik op een plank kwam, en al voort 
arbeidende, bevond het mijn Scheeps-kistje te 
zijn. Ik riep, 6 goede God ! ik danke u, 6 Heere ! 
helpt my dog voortaan; ik huilden van blijd- 
schap, en al schreijende arbeiden ik mijn Kistjen 



van den El-ho 121 



daar uit. Op het deksel was een Presenninge 
gelegt, en om de Sleutel die in 't slot stak, was 
doek omgewonden, om dat het zand het slot niet 
beschaadigen zouw. 

Ik sloot met groote vreugde mijn kistje op, en 
vond het volgende op een Brief: Jongen, alzoo 
wy naa neegen daagen zoekens en wagtens, nog 
Yolk van de GOUDE DRAAK, nog V hebben 
konnen vinden, is goed gevonden te vertrekken, 
(alzoo 't op deese Kust kwaad leggen is) en u 
Kistjen en goed hier te begraaven, ten einde, 
indien gy hier koomt, u daar van te dienen. 
Regt boven op dit Duintjen is een kleyn paaltjen 
ingeslaagen, daar onder zijn nog eenige nood- 
zakelijkheden voor u begraven. Vaart wel. 

Ik viel op mijn knien, dankten God voor sijn 
goedheid, en bad voor de behouden Reis van mijn 
Schipper en Schip. Opstaande, stopten ik een 
voile Pijp, dat 'er nu op staan kon, ik mijn Kist 
doorsiende, vond daar in dit volgende goed. 

3 Hembden, 2 Linnen Hembdrokken, 2 Linnen 
Onderbroeken, 4 Dassen, 2 Paar Koussen, 1 Paar 
(137) Schoenen, 1 Laakense Broek en Wambais, 
zijnde dit mijn landganger, 1 Engelsche Muts, 
omtrent 1 Pond Tabak, elf Pijpen, 1 Tinnen 
Kopje, 2 Tinnen Leepels, 3 Messen , 8 a 10 
Veeters, wat Naalden en Gaaren, 2 Kammen, 1 
Stoops Boutelje met wat Arak, 12 Vel Papier, 
wat Pennen en Inkt, 1 Psalmboek. 



122 



De Ilistorie 



(138) 



Ik dronk een soopje op mijn pijpje als een 
Heer. Nu wierd ik weer gerust en vrolijk. Ik 
besloot den aankomenden nagt bij deese staak te 
campeereen, om mijn goed te bewaaren, daar 
nog Mensch nog Dier was die my beroven kon; 
Jongens werk! Ik mij beraadende, ging op de 
duin, en zag het paaltje, peilden daar met mijn 
spiets, op twee voet diep was het hard, ik weer 
aan 't krabben, dog was nauw een voet in de 
aarde, of vond een Schop, bloed wat was ik 
blijde ! ik aan 't graaven, dat beeter spoet maakte 
als 't krabben met mijn handen. Ik ontdekten 
eerlang een Plank, en daar onder mijn Kooy, 
deese was nog met een brave Presenninge om- 
wonden ; ik dit alles boven op hebbende, vond in 
't openen den volgenden Brief. 

Jongen, nadien gy moogelijk u leeven hier zult 
eindigen, is verstaan u dit goed te vereeren. De 
Meester geeft u sijn Brand-glas, om by gebrek 
van Tontel vuir te maaken, neevens een stuk 
Swaavel tot Swaavel-stokken. Vaart wel. 

Ik was yverig alles door te zien, en vond dit 
volgende goed; 1 Plank, 1 Brave Presenning, 
mijn Hangmat, Bultzak, Kombaars, Hoofdkus- 
sen, 1 Sloop, 1 Bijl, 1 Kort-roer, 2 Kardoesen 
Kruit, 100 Kogels, 1 stuk Platlood, 1 Scheeps- 
houwer met zijn riem, 1 vaatje Brandewijn, 2 
Stoops Botteljes Spaanse Wijn, 100 Beschuyten, 
1 Kooperen Pannetje van een Mingelen, 1 



van den El-ho 123 



Keulsche Pot met Tdbak, nog een Prik, weegende 
wel 2 a 3 pond, 1 Blase met Kruit, nog 1 Kardoes 
met Kogels, 2 Lijnen Vis-want, 1 Doosje met 
Hoekken, 12 Vuirsteenen, 1 bosje Swaavelstok, 1 
bos Pennen, 1 Pennemesje, 2 Boek Papier, 1 
Looden Inktpot, met 1 kanaietje Inkt, het Nieuwe 
Testament, de Reise van W. Y. Bontekoe, en die 
van P. van den Broeke, nog een rond Spiegeltje 
in een blikken doosje. 

Nu veranderden ik van voorneemen om by de 
Staak te blijven. De Weg van de Berg of heuvel 
tot hier toe, had ik als een winkelhaak gegaan, 
dat nu regt toe regt aan veel naader was; dies 
dagt ik dus mijn weg te neemen. 

Ik maakten mijn Kist leedig, die weer vullende 
met de Beschuit, Bussekruit, Tabak, Papier, 
Boeken &e. Ik trok drie Hemden aan, met nog 
<139) een onderkleed, en hong de Houwer op de zijd, 
de Bijl en Schop op de nek, en 2 Boutteljes met 
een tou om den hals ; dus ging ik naa mijn Rivier 
toe; en alzoo het warm was, sweeten ik niet 
weinig, dat ik met een frissen dronk weer 
herstelde. Terwijl als ik rusten, dagt ik wat ik 
doen zou; ik groef een groot gat op een hoogte, 
dat bestrooiden ik onder in met blaaden, daar 
takken over heen ley, daar op bergden ik myn 
goed, dit dekten ik met takken en zooden; des 
agtermiddags haalden ik mijn kooije, met het 



124 



De Historie 



(140) 



roer, een blaase met busse-kruit, kogels en 
byschuit [sic] in mijn zak. 

By de Rivier komende, sloeg op de hoogte by 
mijn Kelder vier paaltjes in de grond, daar mijn 
hangmat aan vast maakten. Ik deed nog een 
togt, haalden de pressennige, bouttelje met arak, 
vis- wand, en hoekken, met wat kogels ; by mijn 
kooy koomende, sliep ik gerust, tot den dag aan 
kwam ; deesen dag keeeg [kreeg] ik al mijn goed 
by de rivier ; nu was ik een ri jk man ! Ik kreeg 
pen, papier, en inkt, en schreef dit voorgaande 
op. Ik sprak een Gebedt, zong een Psalm zoo 
goed als ik kon. 

Nu moest ik een goede plaats voor mijn hut 
zoeken; rondom ziende, zag niet verre van my 
een braven hogen en groenen heuvel, digt aan 
de rivier; ik ging derwaarts, die besiende, be- 
haagden my wel. Mijn Bijl en Schop gehaald 
hebbende, kapten ik zoo veele groote en kleine 
takken, als ruim noodig had; die in de grond 
graavende en steekende, boven en rondom door 
een vlegtende, zoo digt als mogelijk was, en 
maakten in korten tijd een digte hut. Die dus 
verre voltooid hebbende, haalden ik mijn Wand, 
dat ik in de zoute kom geset had, op, waar aan 
verscheiden Baarsen waaren; hier van kookten 
ik in mijn Pannetje. Wel gegeeten, en een koelen 
dronk genomen hebbende, haalden ik mijn hang- 



van den El-ho 125 



mat in mijn hut, die wel ophangende, bragt ik 
daar mijn kooy in, met mijn meeste goed. 

Nu wilde ik de Kom eens aan deese zijde om- 
wandelen, en zien wat daar te doen was. Daar 
de rivier in de kom valt is 't waater zeer rood, 
als ook de strand daar ik groef, was het als leem, 
kleeverig en glad ; ik smeet een schop vol wat ver 
op 't land, om te zien wat het was, een quartier- 
uur voortgaande, vond een roode klippige oever, 
met veele kuilen; dit duurden wel een groot 
quartier, als ik weerom wandelde, om de roode 
leem te ondersoeken, die wat dun uitbreidende, 
ging naa mijn hut ; ook haalden ik wat vrugten. 
My schoot in, dat indien de Leem goed was, ik 
een schoone Hut zou konnen bouwen. Naa de 
leem gaande, be vond ik dat die droog, herd en 
sterk waar, daar over ik my zeer verblijde. 

By myn hut komende, practiseerden onder een 
pijp tabak wat my te doen stond. Ik hieu een 
party dikke en steevige Takken, die van alle zijd- 
takken gekort hebbende, groef die vry diep en 
digt by malkander in de grond, als een ronde 
kring; zijnde dit rond agtien van mijn voeten 
wijt, dit begon ik van onder op te vlegten, als 
een Boeren-tuin, en alzoo ik daar aan byna 
geduurig arbeide, had ik dit in weinig daagen 
zoo hoog, als van de grond maaken kon. Niet 
hooger konnende koomen, moest ik een ladder 
maaken, waar toe twee brave regte takken 



126 



De Historie 



bereide, elk lang negen van mijne voeten. Maar 
alzoo geen boor nog beitel had, moest ik met mijn 
mes de gaten maaken, 't welk my zoo hard viel, 
dat blaren in mijn handen kreeg, mijn arbeid 
moest staaken, en ligter werk doen, of stilzitten. 

De deur of ingang van mijn Hut, had ik vijf 
van mijn voeten hoog, en derdehalf breed 
gemaakt ; hier toe wilde ik een deur vlegten, daar 
meede besig zijnde, schoot my in, dat ik in 't 
(142) Vaderland wel vierkante Vogelkooitjes van 
willige Teenen gemaakt had. Ik liet de deur 
staan, en begon te arbeiden aan een Boodem van 
anderhalf voet vierkant; deese aan de zijd ook 
anderhalf voet optuinende, had ik een mand, en 
die omkeerende, een stoel, kostelijk huis-raad! 
Ik hier meede naa de leem-strand, smeerde mijn 
mand van buiten met de leem, die in de Son 
droogende, besprengden die met een groene tak 
met waater, dan de reeten met de hand digt 
strijkende, wierd mijn mande zoo digt en hard, 
als of sy met roode steen omtrokken was, dat my 
niet weinig verblijden; nu kon ik kisten voor 
mijn goed maaken, en wat ik van nooden had. 

Dit deed my denken, dat ik terstond weer 
begon te vlegten nog twee zoodaanige korven; 
deese veerdig hebbende, hakten ik een steevig 
hout, een vadem lang, aan elk eind een touw, 
bond de manden daar aan, dit had ik als een 
melk-juk ; hier haalden ik nu leem meede naa de 



van den El-ho 127 



hut. In cle hut eenige kijkgaaten gesneeden 
hebbende, tijden ik aan 't smeeren, sprengen en 
strijken, en kreeg mijn hut in drie daagen vijf 
voeten hoog, besmeerd, glad en droog, en was 
zoo vast en hard als of sy van roode steen 
gebakken was. 

Mijn handen weeder herstelt zijnde, vatten 
(143) ik mijn leer weeder aan, windende linnen om 
mijn mes, en wat langsaam werkende, kreeg daar 
vijf sporten of treeden in j door behulp van deese, 
tuinden ik mijn hut boven toe, laatende daar 
boven in een gat een voet groot, zoo voor lugt 
als rook, dat ik met een deksel kon sluiten en 
oopenen. Mijn dak bestreeken en droog gewor- 
den zijnde, meenden ik een Kasteel te bezitten. 
Voorts maakten ik verscheiden manden, die als 
mijn hut met roode leem bekleedende, zoo tot 
berging van mijn goed, als om winter provisie 
in te doen. 

Ook bouwden ik nog een schoone vierkante hut 
by den mijnen aan, die vijftien voeten elke zijde 
vierkant was; een schoon en sterk gebouw, heb- 
bende boven een gat als mijn ander, en beneeden 
kijkgaaten. Nu was ik al Heer van twee Kas- 
teelen, daags schreef ik mijn doen aan, en door 
't dikwijls leesen, kon ik dat al van buiten. 

Op een tijd wat vrugten willende haalen, zag 
een braven heuvel als met handen gemaakt, deese 
was rondom beset boom aan boom in de ronte, 



128 



De Historie 



en een boom in 't midden ; ik kon deese van mijn 
hut zien, maar had daar nooit aan gedagt, dit 
was vier honderd treeden van mijn huis. Ik my 
bedenkende, haalden mijn bijl, en kapten drie 
(14*) boomen twee voeten boven de grond af, daar 
binnen treedende, kon niet anders zien of dit was 
daar zoo gepoot; mijn leer haalende, kapten ik 
de boomen in 't rond af, laatende de stammen 
tien voeten hoog, den middelsten stam liet ik 
twintig voeten lang, hem berovende van alle 
sijne takken, en haar alle aan de grond ont- 
bastende. 

Deese Boomen waaren in de rondte agtien en 
twintig duimen dik ; hier dagt ik een Fortres te 
bouwen! ging daar daags voor tijdverdrijf aan 
tuinen, met dikke takken, die ik met een staak 
op een sloeg. Dit Kasteel wierd naa eenigen 
tijd volmaakt op het dak naa, dat 'er ook naa 
verloop van tijd mede op kwam ; mijn deur was 
twee en een half voet vierkant, twee voeten van 
de grond ; hier haalde ik mijn vaatjen Brande- 
wijn, en een blaas vol Buskruit, mijn halve 
Beschuiten, wat Kogels & c. Op 't laast ging ik 
daar met mijn Kooy en meeste goed woonen, 
begraavende het overige in mijn andere Huisen, 
daar 't wel bewaard was. 

Ik had ook al een geheele steene mand vol zout 
gewonnen in de kuilen van de roode rots, aan 
het einde van de zoute kom. Ook had ik al een 



van den El-ha 129 



brave party gedroogde Visch gemaakt. Ik had 
ook veele korven, van buiten en binnen met roode 
(145) leem bekleed, en deksels daar op, gevlogten 
Taafels, Stoelen, en Bedsteede; mijn leeven was 
nu geheel gerust. 

Ik wist van geen daagen, weeken, maanden 
nog jaaren. Ook wist ik niet hoe lang ik daar 
geweest had. 

Naa een langen tijd, als ik gerust sliep in 't 
midden van een duistere nagt, hoorden ik een 
vreeslijk gebrul, verwerd door malkander, dat 
my wakker maakte; dog ik bleef gerust, alzoo 
my niemand, nog Mensch, nog Dier, in mijn 
Fortres kon beschadigen. Egter maakten ik 
vuur, dat ras gedaan was, alzoo altijd een goed 
deel zeer drooge takken, en ook gekloofd grof 
hout had; mijn deur was geslooten, en mijn 
kijkgaaten toegestopt. 

Mijn Geweer klaar gemaakt hebbende, leide 
wat hout aan, en ging weer te kooy. Den dag 
komende, was ik nieusgierig te weeten wat 'er 
was; mijn kijkgaaten openende, zag ik seeven 
swarte Stieren, die scheenen als gevogten te heb- 
ben, alzoo 'er twee a drie onder waaren die 
bloeden. Eene na mijn Kasteel komende, kwam 
op twaalf of veertien treeden by my, stil staande, 
en ziende naa mijn fort; ik leide mijn roer uit 
een kijkgat, en sehoot hem regt in sijn sterre, 
dat hy needer plofte, en terstond weer laadende, 



130 



De Historie 



(1*6) maakten my gereed of 'er meer kwamen, maar 
de andere vertrokken weer Boschwaard in. Dit 
was het eerste Wild dat ik gezien had. 

Ik naa hem toe, met schop, houwer, en mes ; 
hy lag op zy; ik konde hem niet op syn rug 
krijgen, dog groef een greb agter hem daar hy 
ontrent op sijn rug kwam in te glijen. Ik hieuw 
met de Bijl de strot af, daar hy dapper uit 
bloede, hem optornende was hy zeer vet; en 
haalden uit myn ander huis een teenen taafel, 
daar het vet op leide, dat zeer veel, en meer dan 
honderd pond was ; ik teeg strak aan 't smelten 
met mijn kooperen pan, en kreeg twee brave 
geleemde manden vol vet, als ook drie manden 
vol van het beste Vlees, dat ik zouten ; de blaas 
die blies ik op, de dermen reinigden ik aan de 
kom, eenige droogden ik, andere vulden ik met 
gezouten vlees en vet, daar van eenige in de rook, 
en andere in de lugt droogende; sijn hoorens 
sloeg ik af, die drogende en schrapende, waren 
goede beekers. 

Ik kookten en braaden van hem, tot hy begon 
te ruiken, doen maakten ik een diepe groote kuil, 
laatende hem daarin glijden, hem wat met hef- 
boomen helpende, en met aarde bedekkende, en 

(1*7) dankte God voor syn goedheid. Veelmalen op 
elken dag, zag ik met vreugde naa myn kost. 
Myn Brandewijn nog Wijn had ik niet aange- 
roerd, ik bewaarden die voor een zieken dag, 



van den El-ho 131 



egter kreeg ik lust, en most eens proeven, nam 
op een morgen wat Brandewijn ; des middags 
wat Vlees eetende, nam mijn half tinnen kopje 
vol Spaansche Wijn daartoe ; my dagt of ik met 
Goden ter Bruiloft ging! daar meede was net 
tap toe, voor een langen tijd. 

Nu was mijn daagelijks werk, Zout maaken, 
Visschen vangen, die kooken, braaden, en droo- 
gen; Kisten en Manden te maaken van veel 
'erley groote en f atsoen, die van binnen en buiten 
met leem digt te strijken, en dan te droogen, 
hout te hakken en te droogen, waar van altijd 
een hut vol in voorraad had, nevens nog een 
groote mijt of staapel; ook had ik een brave 
mand vol gedroogd schraapsel van hout, dat 
vliegens met een brand-glas vuur vatte. 

Dit was nu alles wel, ik leefden dus vrolijk 
en gerust in mijn eensaamheid. Had ook een 
goede hut geboud aan de kom op de leem-strand, 
waar in zijnde, kon visschen, slaapen en kooken ; 
dit was een plaisirig ding. Ik had ook een hut 
geboud op den heuvel of berg, maar die beleem- 
(148) den ik niet om de groote moeite ; dog ik maakten 
in mijn fortres een leemen vloer, welke glad 
en suiver opdroogde, dat braaf was, maar te 
koud voor mijn bloote voeten; ik was bloots 
voets, om mijn schoenen en koussen te spaaren, 
en was bynaa naakt, om mijn goed te bewaaren, 
mijn hembden en kleeren wierden oud, en my 



132 Be Historie 



ook te klein, als ik een onderkleed aan trok, liet 
ik mijn hembd uit, niemand kon sijn goed meer- 
der spaaren en bewaaren dan ik ; egter moest ik 
eerst van mijn hangmat, doen van mijn bultzak 
my kleeden, en sliep op drooge blaaden in een 
gevlogten bedsteede, dat heil goed was. 

De kom verschafte my Visch na begeeren, 
gedroogde Visch was mijn Brood, die at ik tot 
het gezooden of gebraaden, en bekwam my zeer 
wel; nu en dan schoot ik een wilden Stier; ik 
bouden hutten in overvloed uit tijdverdrijf, en 
had nu al dertien, nevens een gallery aan de kom. 
Mijn Bard begon uit te botten, een vast teeken 
dat ik hier al lang gewoond had; dog ik was 
altijd vrolijk en gezond. 

Eens op een tijd willende zien waar de Rivier 
van daan kwam, nam mijn roer en houwer 
meede, naa een uur gaans naa gissing, zag als 
een heel moeras bysijden de rivier vol Biesen 
<149> staan, en veele biesen langs de kant; dit kwam 
my wel, een goede rest biesen gesneeden heb- 
bende, spreiden die van een om te droogen, sneed 
voorts een bos, nam die meede om lamp-pit te 
maaken, alzoo veel Vet in voorraad had, want 
nu en dan schoot ik een wilde Stier. 

Lamp-pit hebbende, maakten ik een looden 
lamp, als Matroos te Scheep doet ; nu branden ik 
des nagts ligt, dat my groote vreugd was. Naa 
eenige daagen haalden ik verscheiden dragten 



van den El-ho 133 



drooge Biesen, weer andere snijdende en te 
droogen leggende, versaamelde alzoo een geheele 
hut vol ; hier maakten ik matten van, om op mijn 
blaaden te leggen, dat uit de kunst was; en 
maakten ook deekens om over te dekken zoo veel 
begeerde ; eindelijk, ik kleeden my in biesen, wat 
kan de armoed niet versinnen! En nu deed ik 
bynaa niet als matten te maaken van biesen, zoo 
grooten als kleinen van alderhande fatsoen. 

Dus leefden ik een geruimen tijd wel te vree- 
den. De vloer van mijn fortres had ik nu met 
biesen matten beleid; ik had ook wel agt a tien 
Stieren-vellen gedroogd, zoo groot als die konde 
afvillen, deese waaren goed tot schoenen, kous- 
sen, &e. 

Nu was ik geheel bekend in 't Bosch, en wist 

Sonnen op-en needergang wel waar te neemen; 

(150) aan Sonnen opgang was de Zee, teegen over de 

Kivier was de Son middaags, aan Sonnen onder- 

gang was het Bosch en Land. 

Eens op een tijd begon het uitter Zee helder 
op te blaasen, dat hand over hand toenam, met 
donder en blixem, dat het bosch scheen om te 
waaijen, het stormden zoo vervaarlijk, met 
reegen en felle donderslaagen, dat ik, alhoewel in 
mijn Kasteel zijnde, geheel benaud wierd, en 
van schrik my niet wist te bergen; jaa Bohmen 
wierden uitgerukt, de Wind gaf zomtijts slaagen 
of het donderslaagen waaren; dit duurden wel 



134 De Historie 



twee daagen en nagten, als wanneer het bedaar- 
den. 

Ik zag de Lugt nog sterk trekken, ging op den 
Berg in mijn uitkijk, de Zee schoot nog zeer hoi ; 
en weer afkomende, ging wat Visch vangen, 
onder het visschen begon de wind weer hand over 
hand aan te haalen. 

Met een mande met Visch naa mijn fortres 
gaande, begon het als vooren hoe langer hoe 
herder te stormen. Het was nu voile Maan, de 
Wolken scheenen over de Maan te vliegen ; ik zat 
in ly van mijn Kasteel, alzoo het droog weer was. 
De Maan wierde al langsaam duister, even als 
(15D een Eclips, dat my verschrikte en in mijn huis 
deed gaan; mijn lamp brande, en ik ging, naa 
dat wat vuur aangelegt had, te kooy, dog kon 
niet slaapen, maar was vol schrik en vreese. 

Dag wordende, zag het waater in Zee zeer 
verbolgen en hoog, de wind bedaarden; ik ging 
weer naa den Berg, om de ongestuime Zee eens 
te besien, maar vond mijn Hut niet, deese was 
op de grond afgebrooken, en al mijn tuinen en 
vlegtingen waaren weg, die ook nooid weer 
gesien heb, dat my daar naa een ander deed 
bouwen. 

Ik Visten weeder, en kookten die by de kom ; 
wel gegeeten hebbende, wilde ik na de stukken 
van mijn Hut den Uitkijk op den Berg zoeken; 
boven komende, zag eenige swarte dingen in Zee, 



van den El-ho 135 



dog kon die niet bekennen. Ik had een halve 
ontsteltenis van den vorigen Storm gehad, en 
voelde my niet wel, nam wat Brandewijn tot 
mijn verkwikking, welke uit mijn Fortres haalde, 
daar die ook dronk, dat my kragtig sterkten. 
Doen ging ik naa 't strand; de wind was nog 
sterk uit Zee, en maakten uitneemend hoog 
waater. 

Ik zag een Sloep regt naa strand drijven, 
haalden strak mijn Vis-touw, en trok mijn biesen 
rok uit, doen nam ik hem waar; hier was een 
vlakke strand, en by gevolg geen branding. 
(152) jk k ree g d e Sloep vat, en sleepten die al zagjes in 
de sleuf of uitgang van de kom, wel een half 
quartier binnenwaarts ; de Sloep had geen Rie- 
men, maar voor in lag een Dreg met een Tou, 
die ik aan land vast maakte. Ik was byna 
afgemat om de Sloep van land te houden, dog 
had hem nu vast. 

Ik ging na mijn Kasteel, maakten vuur, warm- 
den my, en nam een half kopje Spaansche Wijn, 
dat my weer kragten byzette. Weeder aan 
strand komende, zag veele Vaten, Kisten, en 
Pakken aan komen drijven, waar van eenige al 
vast zaaten op 't strand ; een waar teeken dat in 
den vorigen Storm een Schip hier ontrent 
gebleeven ofte vergaan was; ik haalden knap 
mijn bijl, sloeg eenige Kisten op, en vond daar 
in Hembden, Plunjen, Tabak &c. zoo als Matroos 



136 



De Historie 



(153) 



of Soldaat gewend is meede te neemen ; de meeste 
waaren van binnen nog droog. Ik plunderden 
zoo veel ik konde, brengende voort een dragt a 
vier in mijn kasteel, dat nat was droogden ik. 
Mijn blijdschap kon ik niet uitdrukken, en kan 
ook niemand weeten of denken, als zulke die in 
de alderuitterste armoed geweest zijn. 

Eenige Kisten was geen of zeer weinig waater 
in gekomen, uit die trok ik voort een hembd en 
plunjen aan, meenden waarlijk zoo rijk te zijn 
als een groot Koning; vond ook eenige Bes- 
chuiten, die nuttigde met wat Spaansche wijn, 
't welk my weer sterk maakte. 

Naa 't Strand gaande om meer te haalen, zag 
ik een gants Agter-Schip aan koomen drijven, 
met nog veele Tonnen, Kisten, Bossen Stokvis, 
Planken &c. Nu wierd ik verblijd, hoopende dat 
daar in nog een leevend Mensch zouw zijn tot 
mijn gezelschap. Dit dreef zoo ver op strand 
tot het vast bleef zitten, als ook veele goed, zoo 
genoemd heb. Het was nu by uitneementheid 
hoog waater als dit goed op strand aan kwam; 
de wind bedaarende, en 't waater vallende, zat 
het Wrak zoo hoog en droog, dat daar niet in 
konde komen, maar Hep daar rondom, roepende 
en sehreeuwende, of daar Volk in waar; dog 
niemand gaf antwoord. 

Ik het met aandagt rondom besiende, zag dat 
het geheele Stuur-boord aan stukken was, de 



van den El-ho 137 



besaans-roede lag dwers over 't schip, en de 
besaans-schoot hing over bak-boord, daar het 
geheele Wrak over helde; ik kreeg het tou vat, 
en klom teegen 't Wrak op; ik vond niemand, 
ik zogt onder en boven, ik kwam in de Hut, daar 
ses Kisten, en drie Kelders vond, met een groote 
(154) Engelsche Dog, welke my siende kwispelsteerte, 
en mijn hand lekten; op 't halve dek was een 
groote Keulsche pot met water; aan bak-boord 
onder het halve dek, twee Stukken die uit haar 
Poorten keeken, en een Stuk met sijn ropaard 
omgevallen, van stuur-boord daar tegen aan 
gerold, de kajuyt had vier vensters, de glasen 
waren weinig beschadigt, de Kapiteins kooy nog 
geheel in wesen. 

Ik dit gesien hebbende, wist niet wat te doen ; 
wat gepractiseert hebbende, haalde al 't loopende 
wand van de besaans-mast, en hakten de besaans 
hoofd-touwen boven onder de mars-zaaling af, 
die buyten boord vallende, raakten by naa 
grond; hier kon ik met mijn gemaakte leer 
gemakkelijk by. Ik al weer na beneden, dan 
booven, roepende of 'er geen Menschen waren; 
dog kwam nog hoorden niemand. 

Onder 't halve dek herom soekende, zag ik de 
Timmermans-kist open, daar in was zaag, ham- 
ers, bylen, beitels, schaaven, booren &c. Ik met 
bijl, haamer, breek-yser &c. weer na de hut, daar 
tien koyen in waren, en in de koyen waren nog 



138 



De Historic 



(155) 



drie kelders. Ik smeet twee Bultsakken, twee 
Dekens, en vieer hooft-kussens over boord, om 
naa mijn Kasteel te brengen, ik opende een 
Stuurmans kist, vond daar in twaalf goede hem- 
den, getekend H. G. met drie pak onder-kleeren 
en een Landganger, een Kaas, Tabak, Pijpen, 
Zee-Atlas &c. Ik smeet de Hemden en Plunjen 
ook over boord, en daalden langs de besaans 
hoofd-touwen af, om dat alles te bergen. 

Den grooten Engelschen Hond, kreet my naa, 
en wilde van boven springen; dit bewoog my 
weer naa boven te komen; ik bond hem de bek 
toe, en liet hem met de besaans-schoot na beneden, 
daar ik hem volgde; desen Hond was grof en 
sterk, en ik gebruikten hem tot mijn Lastdrager. 
By hem komende nam ik zoo veel als draagen 
kon na mijn Kasteel ; hier wat rustende, en den 
Hond wat gekookte Vis gevende, met wat water, 
bewees my dat beest hoe langer hoe merder 
vrindschap. 

Den Avond viel, ik was vermoeid, dog ging 
met mijn Drager, (zoo noemden ik mijn Hond) 
naa de rivier, en deed hem drinken ; ik had daar 
een party gekookte Vis, die hy op at. Wy weeder, 
na mijn kasteel gaande, en daar komende, sneed 
hem van een drooge Stieren huid een Vel over 
zijn lijf ; ik nam twee ongeleemde manden van 
anderhalf voet, ook van een voet, die met twee 



van den El-ho 139 



touwen aan een hegtende, dit was sijn gereed- 
schap, om te dragen. 

(156) Ik maakten vuur, kookten en braaden Vis, at 

met mijn Draager ons buyken vol, wy sliepen 
gerust. Des morgens met den dag ging met 
Draager naa 't Wrak, zetten hem zijn manden en 
vel af ; boven koomende, sloeg ik de kisten op 
een ry open, vond kleeren, Linnen, Tabak, Koop- 
manschap, Beschuit, Kaasen &c. In eene kelder 
stak een sleutel in, daar ik wel vier meede op 
maakte, die alle vol Brandewi jn waren ; ik wierp 
weder linnen, wollen, en wat my diende over 
boord, en besteeden dien dag, met ons beiden te 
draagen, wel eetende en wel drinkende. Het 
Wrak sat als schuins op de agterste bil van bak- 
boord, en was beneden nog vol water. Ik berg- 
den al wat ik kon, niets mishaagden my, in elk 
van mijn hutten kwam vry wat goed. 

Ik maakten nog twee langagtige manden voor 
Draager. De kelders liet ik met de bezaans- 
schoot af ; ik droeg linnen en wollen, en Draager 
elke reis ses stoops flessen ; dus kreeg ik haast de 
seeven kelders over. De leedige kisten kon ik 
ook als de kelders aflaaten, maar kon die niet 
voortkrijgen, tot my inviel, dat een zaag had, ik 
zaagden vier blokken van een gaven ronden 
Boom, maakende daar van vier raaden, die onder 
een langwerpig vierkant vast maakende, toen 

d57) had ik een waagen. Trekgereedschap maakten ik 



140 



De Historie 



(158) 



voor Draager, welke de waagen met een kist 
makkelijk kon trekken als ik wat aanschoof. 
Dus kreeg ik in weinig tijd veel groote en kleine 
kisten, eenige bossen Stok-vis, met veel'erley 
goed. 

Hier naa de Kajuit visiteerende, vond vier 
kleine tonnetjes fijne Beschuit, elk tonnetje als 
een biervierendeel, Kannen, Glaasen, twee Sil- 
veren Beekers, Bouteljes met Wijn, Bier, Oli, 
Azijn, de Kooy met sijn Gordijnen, Stoelen, 
Banken, Lampen, Kandelaars, een kist met 
Kaarssen &c. 

Hier bleef het nog niet by, wy wierden hoe 
langer hoe rijker, de Konstapels-kaamer had ik 
nog niet gevisiteert; daar koomende, vond zeer 
veele Kooijen en Kisten, veele Kardoesen in 
haar kookers, twee hoorne Lantaarens, en twee 
kelders met Brandewijn. 

Ik dorst naa beneden in de Kruit-kaamer niet 
gaan, uit vreese voor 't waater. De beide kelders 
en flessen afgelaaten hebbende, bragt die naa 
mijn Kasteel. Voorts resolveerden ik om onder 
in de Konstaapels-kaamer een gat te houwen, 
ten einde het waater hem daar door ontlasten 
zou, en nam een avangaar of groote kruisboor, 
en boorden daar door; daar geen waater uit 
kwam, dat my verwonderde ; boorden even voor 
de Kruit-kaamer, daar terstond waater kreeg; 
ik weer in 't Wrak, stak eene lantaarne aan, ging 



van den El-ho 141 



doen in de Kruit-kaamer, die ongeschonden, 
gaaf, en droog bevond, daar braaf Kruit, en ook 
Kardoes-papier in was. 

Aan de andere zijde was de Brood-kaamer, zoo 
droog als kurk; hier vond ik voor my en 
Draager, meer Brood als voor zes jaaren van 
nooden had. Daar by veel Leidsche en Soete- 
melks-kaasen, vier-en-twintig Kelders, elk met 
sijn Sleutels, twee toegemaakte Tonnen zonder 
spontgaaten, daar Booter in was. 

Dit bezigtigt hebbende, bragt wat Beschuit en 
Kaas boven, dat aflaatende, naa mijn Kasteel 
bragt; en met Draager wat gegeeten hebbende, 
tyden wy weeder naa 't Wrak. Het waater zig 
ontlast hebbende, zag in de veertig ronde Potten, 
boven met kalk toegemaakt; ik kenden die niet, 
eene open doende, was die vol Boom-olie, hier 
van moesten voort een party na mijn Fort ; daar 
had ik nu Brood, Kaas, Oly, Brandewijn, en 
voorts al wat ik wenschen kon. Nu moest ik de 
Vaaten visiteeren die op strand gespoeld waaren, 
ging met mijn boor en eenige swikjes of bosjes 
daar naa toe. Hier vond ik drie vaaten Mom, 
(159) een vat Azijn, drie vaaten Fransche, en drie 
vaaten Rinsehe Wijn ; ik dronk eens, en dagt wat 
my te doen stond. Voortrollen kon ik niet, ik 
had by de Oly-potten nog ses kelders Brande- 
wijn gevonden, die weg goot, om dat meer Bran- 
dewijn had als begeerde; deese kelders aan de 




142 De Historic 



rivier gebragt, en schoon gespoeld hebbende, 
tapten ik 'er vier vol Mom, en twee met Fransche 
Wijn. 

Ik had ook drie leedige ankers in de Hut ge- 
vonden, twee vulden ik ook met Fransche Wijn, 
alzoo die liever dronk als Rinsche ; deese voerden 
wy ook naa mijn wijn-hut; een met Wijn-azijn 
vullende, bragt ik in mijn Kasteel, daar ook een 
kelder Brandewijn wech goot, en haalden die 
vol Fransche Wijn. 

Ik goot zoo veel Brandewijn wech, dat ik een 
oxhoofd Franse wijn af tapten, dat naa de rivier 
rollende, spoelden dat schoon, ley dat onder een 
digte schaaduwe van een Boom, daar geen Son 
kon by koomen; hier in bragt ik een ander vat 
in over, t' elkens een Ankers-kelder vol tap- 
pende, kon Draager die gemakkelijk trekken; 
dus kreeg ik al de Wijn, Mom, en Azijn over, tot 
onder de Boomen, daar die nog met Takken wel 
dekkende. 

Ik bragt vier kelders Brandewijn weer uit 
(160) mijn Kasteel in de Brandewijns-hut, al waar nu 
vier-en-twintig kelders Brandewijn had, op en 
by malkander staan. Ik had in de Brood-hut 
sestien Kisten met Beschuit, en drie vierendeels 
vaaten met fijne Beschuit. Ik had in de Kaas- 
hut veertien Leidse en seeven-en-twintig oude 
Soetemelks-kaasen. Ik had in de Oly-hut vier- 
en-veertig ronde potten Olye. Ik had in de 






van den El-ho 



143 



(161) 



Kruit-hut agt-en-dartig Kardoesen in hare 
kookers, en ses geleemde Kisten vol gevulde 
Kardoesen. Ik had daar ook in sestien riem 
Kardoes-papier. Ik had in de Bies-hut veele 
bossen gedroogde Biesen. Ik had in de Hout- 
hut, drooge Rysen, en gekloofd Hout, met nog 
een groote stapel daar by. Ik had in de Sout- 
hut ses beleemde kisten met Sout, daar by ses 
bossen Stok-vis die weder gedroogd had. 

Voorts een hut vol Kooyen en Plunjen, en in 
mijn Kasteel een braave kooy met al wat daar 
toe behoord, twee kelders Brandewijn, een kelder 
Rinse, en een kelder Franse Wijn; een kelder 
Mom, en een kelder Wijn-azijn : noch een anker 
Franse wijn, een vierendeels vat met fijne 
Beschuit, een Kist met Scheeps-beschuit, een kist 
Kaarsen, een Teekeetel, met een dosijn Kopjes 
en Schoteltjes, Tee, Koffi-boonen, en een rest 
Zaaly, dit alle haalden ik uit de Brood-kelder, 
met drie nieuwe Keetels, Linnen en Wollen zat, 
Tabak, Pijpen, en alles. 

Nu had ik een Konings leeven, en daar by ook 
geselschap aan mijn Hond. 

Op een tijd een brave Snaphaan krijgende, 
(want ik had 'er nu ses) ging voor plaisier in 't 
Bosch, om te zien of ik ook een Stier bekoomen 
kon; ontrent een half uur gewandeld hebbende, 
zag van verre een uitneemenden grooten Vogel, 
die op een hogen boom zat; ik bekroop hem zoo 



144 



De Historie 



(162) 



naa als mogelijk was ; staande nu agter een dikke 
Boom, en mijn roer over een tak leggende, schoot 
hem regt in de Borst, dat hy dood om laag kwam, 
hy viel zoo swaar als een groot Schaap. Het 
was een wonderlijken grooten en schonen Vogel, 
sign lighaam was zoo groot als een Kasuaris, 
welke ik op Batavia gesien had. Hy was te groot 
om te draagen, dies haalden ik mijn waagen, en 
Draager moest in 't span ; ik hadde agter aan de 
waagen een leuning, als aan een sleede gemaakt, 
om aan te schuiven. Een bijl met wat touw op 
de waagen gelegt hebbende, toogen wy te veld, 
en vonden hem; ik ley hem op de waagen, en 
bragten hem naa 't Kasteel, daar hem met aan- 
dagt bezag. Sijn nebbe was krom als een Arends 
bek, maar bloed rood; sijn hoofd en borst was 
goud geel ; op sijn hoofd had hy een zeer schoone 
roode kuive ; sijn nek tot aan de rug, was groen 
en blaau, als zommige Vaderlandse tamme 
Eenden; sijn rug was git swart; sijn vleugels 
waaren bloed rood, als de beste Papegais-veeren, 
en zoo ook sijn steert; sijn beenen waaren zeer 
grof en swart, daar aan zeer dikke en roode 
kromme klauwen; sijn vleugels waaren by 
uitneementheid groot, de schaften waaren meer 
als eens zoo dik als Swaane schaften. Ik sneed 
hem sijn pooten, vleugels, en hals af, die liet 
droogen; sijn lighaam afvillende, bevond dat 
zeer vet en blank; hem opsnijdende, was onbe- 



van den El-ho 145 



denkelijk vet van binnen, 't welk niet sterk, 
maar zeer zoet was. Ik kookten en braaden van 
hem verscheide daagen, ik en Draager smulden 
daar lekkertjes van, tot hy op was. Naa eenigen 
tijd bragt ik de Sloep in de Kom, maakende 
eenige Riemen van 't waagenschot dat ik uit de 
Kajnit en uit de Hut brak ; want al de kooijen 
in de hut, het besehot en kastjes in de kajuit had 
ik afgebrooken. Nu roeiden ik somtijts voor 
plaisier in de kom om daar te visschen. Ik had 
de peil-lijn en 't lood uit het Wrak gekreegen, 
en willende de kom eens peilen, vond ik die een 
kanon-schoot van land, wel vijftig vaademen 
(163) diep. Ik hadde drie groote hoeken met kettings, 
daar men Heyen meede vangt, gevonden; hier 
meede om vermaak in de kom vissende, bond een 
brave staak aan de lijn tot mijn vlot, met nog 
een goed stel-hout: de hoek met een stuk vlees 
te grond laatende, had voort zoo sterke beet, dat 
mijn vlotten onder gingen als lood; ik vierden 
mijn lijn, en zoetjes naa land roeijende, daar de 
Sloep vast gelegt hebbende, haalden al zoetjes 
op, en kreeg het vlot te zien, dat weer om laag 
getrokken wierd, wanneer mijn lijn weer vierde ; 
dit duurden wel bynaa vier uuren, dat ik nu 
ophaalde, en dan vierde, tot den Viseh vermoeid 
zijnde, hem aan strand liet leiden. 

Mijn lijn had ik over een dikke Boom-tak, 
welke boven 't waater was, geleid; hier over 



146 De Historie 



haalden ik hem op ; zoo haast een zeer groote kop 
boven zag, die zeer monstereus was, sparde hy 
zoo een vervaarlijken bek op, dat ik door schrik 
in mijn hut liep ; uitziende, teeg hy zagt naa de 
grond, de lijn zagtjes naatrekkende ; ik maakten 
de lijn klaar, en vierden al uit, maakten hem dus 
moede, en trok hem weer zoetjes tot digt aan de 
strand, tot op twee voet naa boven 't waater, 
daar hem aandagtelijk bezag. Hy was plat, en 
wel zoo groot als een zeer groote taafel, geleek 
(164) wel naa een Rog, was bruin van koleur; ik nam 
een houwer en sneed de lijn by de ketting af ; 
dus zetten hy 't weer naa beneden, en kwam 
nooit weeder te voorschijn ; ik dagt zeer dikwijls 
op hem, maar heb nooit voor of naa dien tijd zoo 
een monster weer gesien. 

Nog eens op een tijd op den berg de Uitkijk 
zijnde, zag zeer veele groote swarte Vogels in de 
sleuf of goote, waar door de kom haar in Zee 
ontlaste; ik laaden straks twee roers, en der- 
waarts gaande, schoot in twee schooten, vijf van 
de gezeide Vogels, zoo digt laagen sy by een ; en 
een krijgende, zag ik dat het swarte Swaanen 
waaren; zy dreeven met de vloed naa de kom; 
ik haalden mijn sloep, kreeg de overige doode, 
bragt die in een hut, plukten en bewaarden de 
veeren ; het vet was goed in de lamp ; vier zouten 
ik, die in de rook droogde. In al mijn tijd 
waaren hier zoodaanige Vogels niet geweest, ik 






van den El-ho 



147 



schoot 'er veele om het vet, en de veeren, waar 
meede vier bultzakken vulde. Naa eenigen tijd 
vertrokken zy, en kwamen niet weer. 

Nu leefden ik en mijn Draager zoo wy begeer- 
den. Maar de Wereld en al dat daar in en op is, 
is de verandering onderworpen. Dus een ge- 
ruime tijd, zeer gerust en vrolijk met mijn 
(165) Hond leevende; weinig meer op 't Vaderland of 
't Schip denkende; was ik op een tijd op den 
Berg de Uit-kijk, met een Verre-kijker wat rond- 
om ziende, ontdekten ik eenige Menschen by 
de Staak, dat my in vreese en hoope bragt, niet 
weetende of het goed of kwaad, geluk of ongeluk 
voor my zoude brengen. 

My in mijn Kasteel begeevende, laaden ik mijn 
ses roers, mijn deur en kijkgaaten stoppende, 
behalven eene naa de strand. Draager bond ik 
sijn mond, om dat niet blaffen zou. Uitsiende, 
zag Mannen, Vrouwen, en Kinderen naa 't 
Wrak marcheeren, op mijn Kasteel niet eens 
denkende. Zy bezagen het "Wrak, en trokken 
voort naa de Rivier, daar zy mijn hutten vin- 
dende, een vervaarlijk gebaar en gekrijt 
maakten, dat my zeer ontstelde en verschrikte. 
Zy alle konden my in mijn kasteel niet doen; 
maar zy waaren naa gissing wel hondert Men- 
schen, die my waarlijk konden uithongeren. 
Zy haalden hout uit de hout-hut en maakten 
vliegens vuur, mijn droog hout moest daar aan 



148 De Historic 



geloven, en al mijn Vis die zy vonden, pakten zy 
aan; al haar doen beschouden ik door een kijk- 
gat, zy zaaten in vijf partyen romdom [sic] die 
vuuren, onder haar eeten, warmen en tieren, zag 
(geloof ik) eenen mijnen Kasteel, daar op een 
(166) geroep maakende, kwaamen alle al schreeuwende 
naa my toe, elk up het herdste loopende. 

Toen zy nog aan 't Wrak waaren, bad ik God 
dat hy my wilde in geeven wat my best was. De 
helf t dood te schieten was wel kans toe ; maar ik 
had geen waater, zy konden my wel haast 
uitgehongerd hebben. Ook kon ik niet weeten of 
nog meer Zuidlanders aan kwamen of niet; dit 
alles maakten my vol angst en vreese. Indien ik 
uit kwam, konden zy my dooden, ik wist geen 
raad. God had my uit zoo veele gevaaren gered, 
ik bad nu weer van herten; en eindigende, ley 
ik in Gods naam vuur aan, at mijn buik vol 
beschuit, dronk een beeker wijn toe, gaf Draager 
sijn buik vol vis en Scheeps-beschuit. 

Ik schoot een schoot boven uit, waar op zy alle 
op hun aangesigten vielen; ik dronk nog een 
beeker wijn, en begaf my met mijn houwer en 
een gelaaden roer uit mijn kasteel. Zy laagen 
aan de zijde van 't kasteel in 't Bosch nog alle 
ter aarden, tot ik agter mijn hut komende, haar 
toe sprak, Mannen wat Land is ditf en wat Volk 
zij-t gyf Zy bleeven alle leggen, tot ik eene by 
de hand op ligte, hem teeken doende, dat de 



van den El-ha 



149 



anderen ook zouden opstaan, 't welk deeden. 
Wenkten haar dat zy zouden gaan zitten; dit 
(167) deed ik met groote beleeftheid, haar met een 
uitgestrekten arm om laag wenkende, daar by 
mijn hoofd wat omdraijende, waar op zy alle 
weder ter aarden vielen, op haar aangezigten. 
My moogelijk voor eene van haare Goden aan- 
siende, om dat ik blank was, en gedonderd had. 
Het Roer in mijn hand hebbende, schoot ik over 
haar heen los. Zy bleven als Honden leggen; 
my daar van dienende, haalden voort een ander 
gelaaden roer, met een korf vol Scheeps-beschuit, 
en mijn vorige post weer in neemende, beurden 
ik andermaal een Man op, hem wijsende dat zy 
zouden opstaan, zoo als zy deeden ; en de beschuit 
haar omdeelende, wierden zy vryer, vattende 
malkander hand aan hand, en dus om mijn 
kasteel heen dansende, al singende, en somtijts 
in de handen klappende. 

Zy waaren alle zoo naakt als zy gebooren 
waaren, en zonder schaamte haar van agteren en 
voren ontlastende als Honden, zelf zonder haar 
eens om te draaijen. Deesen Trop was uit twee 
geslagten naa ik sien kon, zommige zoo swart als 
pik, met wol op haar hoofden; anderen waaren 
rosse als afgevallen en gedroogde blaaden, en 
hadden lang hair. De Vrouwen hadden zeer 
dikke buiken, lange todden van borsten, zijnde 
onbesehaamde teeven. 



150 



De Historie 



(168) Naa dat zy wat gedanst en geschreeud hadden, 

liepen zy alle Boschwaard in. Ik dankte God dat 
hy my van dit perijkel verlost had. 

Nu meenden ik alle gevaar te boven te zijn, en 
ging en bezag mijn hutten ; bevond dat mijn hout 
en vis meest voort was, het ander hadden zy niet 
aangeraakt. 

My dagt het nu tijd te zijn om mijn Kasteel 
te voorsien, of zy weederom kwaamen. Twaalf 
Ankers-kelders goot ik de Brandewijn uit, de 
flessen spoelende, en met waater vullende, bragt 
die in mijn Kasteel; dat vorder voorsiende met 
vier kelders Mom, vier kelders Franse, en drie 
kelders Rinse Wijn, twee kelders Wijn-azijn. 
Uit de Brood-hut bragt ik over de overige drie 
vaatjes fijne Beschuit, met sestien kisten Scheeps- 
beschuit, tien Leidse, en twintig Soetemelks- 
kaasen, twintig potten Oly, dertig flessen vol 
Boter, nog ses-en-dertig kardoes-kookers met 
gevulde Kardoesen, voorts Linnen en Wollen zoo 
veel bergen kon, Touwen zadt, Keetels, Bylen, 
Schop &c. 

Mijn Kasteel was een half uur gaans van 't 
"Wrak ; ik met mijn waagen daar heen, en haalden 
nog twaalf fles-kelders, daar de flessen met 
Brandewijn uit zetten, brak de middelschotjes 
(169) daar uit, die leedig naa mijn Kasteel brengende, 
om wat in te bergen. 

Kisten en kelders staapelden ik op een, tot 



van den El-ha 151 



neegen en tien voeten hoog, eerst vulden ik de 
onderste kist, daar dan een leedige opsettende, 
vulden die dan ook, en zoo vervolglijk ; mijn leer, 
kisten en kelders waaren mijn trappen, daar de 
leedige dingen by op bragt. De kijkgaaten 
overal vry laatende. 

Wanneer dit alles dus gevlyd was en soo op 
een gestaapeld, had ik nog een zeer ruim en groot 
gemak; want het was agt-en-twintig voeten regt 
in 't midden door te meeten van d'eene wand 
aan d'andere. 

Lamp-pit en Lonte had ik genoeg, neevens 
Kaarsen, Lamp en Kandelaars. 

Nu moest ik my nog van Brandhout en Zout 
verzorgen, dat ook al haalde. 

Voorts haalden ik zoo veel leedige kisten uit 
de Konstaapels-kaamer als bergen kon; dese 
bragt met mijn Hond in 't Kasteel, die vullende 
met Touw, Beschuit, en voorts daar ik zin in 
had ; bergden ook mijn overige Kaas en Oly, had 
nu een voorneemen van mijn kasteel te ver- 
weeren, als 'er geen gewaapende kwamen. 

Mijne meininge was, dat wel voor ses jaaren 
versien was. Op een tijd het "Wrak met aandagt 
(170) visiteerende, vond nog twee vatten met gevulde 
Hand-granaaten, met pijpen daar in, daar ander- 
half honderd van over haalden, en ziende weer 
de Boter tonnen, vulden ik daar van nog drie 
Brandewijns ankers. 



152 De Ilistorie 



Vond ook vier metaalen Bassen, die over bragt, 
neevens een vaatje roer-koogels. 

En nu kon ik niet meer bergen, maar was van 
alles klaar en voorsien. God biddende, dat my 
wilde bewaaren en helpen; leevende weeder 
gerust en wel. 

Twee Tuinen begon ik aan te leggen, van agt 
voeten hoog, en agtien lang, aan elke zijde van 
de deure, regt uit gaande, om niet overvallen te 
worden, deesen gang sloot ik met een deur. 

Ook en dorst ik nooit zoo verre als voor deesen 
van huis gaan, altijd het bosch of de rivier eerst 
bespiedende, dan op de Uitkijk ziende met mijn 
verrekijker. Naa verloop van tijd was het voile 
Maan; als ik voor mijn deur zat en rookten, 
hoorden ik boschwaard in, een yselijk geroep en 
geschreeuw, dat my niet weinig verschrikte ! het 
kwam hoe langer hoe naarder; ik sloot mijn 
poort en deur zoo vast ik kon ; biddende God om 
hulpe. Het gedruis ging naa de rivier, daar het 
bleef. 

Dag wordende, zag ik aan de rievier [sic] naa 
(i7i) gissing, wel duisend Menschen, voerende eenige 
houten spiessen, andere groote knodsen, daar zy 
mijn hutten meede verbraaken en dan verbran- 
den; waar aan ik merkten dat het Oorlog was. 
Mijn Bassen en Roers gelaaden hebbende, be- 
reiden ik my tot vegten. Door mijn verrekijker 
konde ik zien, dat eenige hun aangesigten met 



van den El-ho 153 



een geelagtige verf geheel geverfd hadden; an- 
dere hadden ringen om de oogen, en een streek 
over 't voorhoofd en neus; de meeste waaren 
gants niet geverfd. 

Zy, zoo 't scheen hielden raad; daar naa al 
schreeuwende naa 't kasteel loopende, slaande 
met hun kodden op 't kasteel met groot geraas. 
Ik losten een schoot boven uit, en zag of zy als 
de eerste troep ook ter aarden vielen; maar zy 
bleven staan, en lagten, slaande eeven sterk op 
mijn fort, dies schoot ik uit een kijkgat zoo een 
geschilderden door sijn hoofd dat hy beuitelden. 
Doen nog eens in den hoop brandende, schreeu- 
den zy geweldig, vliedende naa 't Bosch, en twee 
a drie zoo dood of gekwetst meede neemende. 
God heb dank tot dus ver zeid ik in my zelven ; 
ik nam een roemer Wijn tot victory, en gaf 
Draager een schootel Vis. 

Naa omtrent een half uur, kwamen zy met 
(172) gruwlijk geschreeu weederom, dog dorsten niet 
naaby komen, maar trokken naa de Strand, daar 
zy weer raad hielden; als wanneer twaalf ge- 
schilderden met haar houte spiesen uittraaden 
tot aan mijn poort; dog die niet konnende op 
krijgen, wenkten een party met dikke staaken 
en knodsen; deese dan met geweld de poort 
opbreekende, traaden in de gang naa mijn deur, 
als wanneer ik een Bas met Muskets-kogels en 
schroot op haar loste, waar door ses onder de voet 



154 De Historic 



raakten, de andere gingen loopen. Ik met een 
houwer uit, die niet dood waaren maakten ik 
dood, waar onder een jonge was dien ik het hoofd 
af hieu, haar dat toewerpende, daar zy rondom 
kwamen staan; ik naa binnen, laadende de Bas 
als voren, en nam doen drie hand-granaaten, een 
tusschen haar werpende, bleven zy staan, hy 
sloeg, eenige wierden gekwetst, nog bleven zy 
staan ; jaa daar kwamen nog al meer by, waarom 
mijn tweede en derde ook tusschen haar in liet 
gaan, welke goede werking deeden, want zy 
kreeten als honden; zy waaren naaby, dies nam 
ik twee roers, daar meede aan 't einde van de 
gang komende, schoot daar onder, een viel onder 
' de voet, en een ander kreet ; straks losten ik ook 
mijn ander, waar op zy al krijtende vertrokken 
naa 't strand. Of zy haar dooden daar be- 
(173) groeven, dan of zy die in Zee smeeten, weet ik 
niet. 

Zy trokken naa die rivier, daar zy veele vuuren 
maakten, alwaar den dag en de geheele nagt 
meede voort voeren, altijd by beurten huilende, 
dan by 't eene vuur, en dan by 't andere. Ik 
had al by daage mijn poorte weer versien; 
slaapende gerust, alzoo eens gedronken had, my 
geweldig op de wakkerheid van mijn Hond ver- 
laatende. 

De Zonne was wel een uur op geweest, als 
wanneer mijn Vyanden weeder naa de strand 



van den El-ho 155 



toogen, stil en zonder geschreeu, daar halte hid- 
den, en zoo het scheen raad houdende, traaden 
weeder twaalf geschilderde helden uit naa mijn 
kasteel, met hun houte spiesen in de hand; ik 
zette mijn Bassen klaar, mijn lont-stok gereed, 
en kwam met twee gelaaden roers voor mijn 
deur; zy my ziende, vielen op hun aangesigt, en 
wat geleegen hebbende, stond eene op, welke een 
soode aarde opkrabde, leide die op sijn hoofd, 
sijn armen voor sijn borst kruissende, kwam al 
bukkende naa mijn toe ; en stil staande, wenkten 
ik hem ; hy kwam tot aan mijn poort, gaande op 
sijn hurke zitten, leide als een Aap sijn beide 
(174) handen op de soode, welke op sijn hoofd lag, 
verscheidemaal versugtende, my niet dervende 
aanzien, nog toespreeken ; de groote troep zag dit 
van verre aan, en sijn elf Makkers bleven op de 
aarde leggen. 

Ik alles oversien hebbende, met mijn roer in 
de hand, en een blooten houwer met een touw 
aan den arm hangende, trad tot aan mijn poorte, 
(zijnde dit een sterk hek) alwaar hy op de hurke 
zat, drie a vier treeden daar buiten. Ik spraak 
hem aan, hier Karel, wat wild Gy? Hy zag op, 
ik wenkten hem aan 't hek te komen; daar 
komende, begon hy te huilen, en op sijn borst 
kloppende, wees op de dooden, en dan naa de 
Zee, waar uit ik besloot dat hy de dooden wilde 
haalen. Hier op deed ik teeken, dat de andere 



156 De Ilistorie 



die teegen de grond laagen, zouden vertrekken. 
Hy hem omkeerende, riep haar toe, waar op 
zy alle opstonded, en liepen by de groote troep op 
strand. 

Ik wees hem hy zou stil staan, dat hy deed ; ik 
haalden Beschuit en Spaansche Wijn, die ik met 
hem at en dronk, ik binnen, en hy buiten de 
poort ; ziende dat hem dat wel behaagde, wees ik 
hem, dat hy alleen de dooden moest haalen, en 
wat te rugge gaan, dat hy deede. 

De Poort los gemaakt hebbende, vertrok in 
(175) mijn Kasteel, gaande binnen mijn deur zitten, 
mijn bassen en roers veerdig hebbende. Hy 
kwam in de gang, en sleepten een vor een, een 
stukweegs buiten de poort, die op een hoop neer 
smijtende. 

Wanneer hy de laatste haalde, en buiten was, 
kwam ik weeder met "Wijn en Beschuit uit, hem 
wenkende te staan, sloot ik mijn poort zeer vast 
toe; teiken doende dat by my zoude koomen, 
dat hy deede. Ik beschonk hem met ses 
Beschuiten en een boutelje Wijn. Hy dit aan^ 
neemende, zat weeder op sijn hurke ; en ronkte 
als een slaapend menseh, stond op en ging by de 
groote trop [sic] . 

Ik bleef aan de poort om dit alles aan te zien, 
wat zy zouden aanvangen. 

Daar kwamen ses-en-dertig geschilderde 
helden met haare spiessen, al huilende tot by de 



van den El-ho 151 



dooden, welke opneemende, droegen die tot by de 
groote troep. Daar komende, verheften zig een 
yselijk gehuil en gekrijt. Zy marcheerden al 
krijtende naa de rivier; dit duurden den ge- 
heelen nagt, dat zy by beurten huilden, altemets 
by twee vuuren te gelijk, dat ik alles zien en 
hooren kon. 

Den dooden-haalder kwam des morgens tot 
voor mijn poorte, daar hy hard op begon te 
huilen. Ik door mijn kijk-gaaten rondom geen 
ander Volk verneemende, kwam uit, met roer en 
houwer. Hy zat als vooren op sijn hurken, met 
sijn beide handen op sijn hoofd. Ik deed teiken 
dat zou zitten blijven, en my omkeerende, wilde 
hem wijn en brood haalen; Draager blaften, en 
als ik om zag was dien kwant al boven op het 
hek; maar ik dit ziende, schoot hem van boven 
dat naar buiten neerbuitelden, waar op weer een 
algemeen geschreeuw en groot gehuil by de rivier 
op ging. 

Een geverfden kwam uit den hoop, even als 
den dooden had gedaan; ik wierp hem twee 
Beschuiten toe, laatende hem den dooden weg 
sleepen ; onderweege ontmoeten hem verscheiden 
anderen om hem te helpen draagen ; deese by den 
dooden koomende, balkten zoo hard als zy 
konden, en daar meede by de troep komende, 
schreeuden zy alle eeven hard, als of haar het 
uitterste verderf was naakende. Eindelijk trok- 



158 



De Historic 



ken zy Boschwaard in. Elk kan denken of ik 
blijde was: mijn poorte, deur, en kijkgaaten 
geslooten hebbende, leide ik vuur aan, en kookten 
en braaden als een Prins, maakende met Draager 
goede Qier; ik zettender [sic] een victory-beeker 
op, gaande gerust leggen slaapen, tot den vol- 
genden morgen een gat in den dag weg. 

Naademaal ik papier genoeg had, schreef ik alle 
(177) voorvallen aan, die haast door 't dikwils leesen 
van buiten konnende. 

Om plaats te winnen, brak ik mijn leemen 
vloer, die weg werpende ; groef de Oly-potten in 
de grond ; voegende alles zoo kort op en aan een 
als my doenlijk was. Ik haalden nog kruit, 
schroot, en koogels uit het Wrak, met nog veel 
Beschuit, en al dat noodig agte en bergen kon. 

Vier schietgaaten, twee naa 't boseh, en aan 
elken zijde een, deese maakten ik met breekysers 
en beitels, die wel beleemende. Rondom mijn 
Fort maakten ik boven aan scherpe paaltjes in 
de grond, twee treeden breed. En nu kon my 
niemand als door mijn gang het Fort genaaken. 

Eens op een nagt begon Draager geweldig te 
blaffen, dog ik hoorden niet; maar des morgens 
ontwaakende, zag dat al mijn paaltjes met zoo- 
den bedekt waaren ; waar door verschrikte, den- 
kende dat zy sterk zijnde, wel mijn geheele Fort 
zouden begraaven. Rondom uitziende, vernam 
niemand. Draager uitgelaaten hebbende, was 



van den El-ho 159 



ook gerust. Den geheelen dag zag ik sneedig uit, 
niemand verneemende ; savonts stak ik ligt aan, 
en begaaf my te kooy. In de voornagt begon 
Draager weer te blaffen. Mijn ligt bedekt heb- 
(178) bende, opende zagt mijn sehietgaaten, mijn bas- 
sen stille aanbrengende, gaf ik rondom vuur. 
Daar op volgden een yselijk geschreeu. De 
sehietgaaten terstond weeder stoppende, laaden 
ik mijn bassen zeer wel, en bragt die weer te 
boorde. Naa ontrent twee uuren begon Draager 
weer te gnorren; ik verbood hem 't blaffen, en 
gaf voort rondom weer vuur, daar al weeder zulk 
een gekrijt op volgde. Ik stopten mijn sehiet- 
gaaten, laaden mijn bassen weeder, en peurden 
te koo3 r , alles en de "Wagt op Draager laatende 
aankomen. 

Dag wordende, ik en mijn Hond niets ver- 
neemende, traden naa buiten, met voorneemen 
naa de Uit-kijk te gaan, dog derfte niet, uit 
vreese van verrast te worden, bleef darom dien 
dag by en in mijn Fort, sneedig oppassende, en 
met Draager de wagt houdende. Mijn poort en 
deur des avonds wel geslooten hebbende, maakten 
ik vuur en ligt. In de voornagt gromden 
Draager als voren. Door mijn kijkgaaten uit- 
ziende, zag zeer veele vuuren, jaa zonder tal, zoo 
aan de rivier, langs de strand, als over al in 't 
bosch, dat my wat ontstelde; dog bedaarden 



160 



De Historic 



haast, denkende, God had my zoo veel maalen 
bewaard, hy zou my nu ook wel bewaaren. 

Alles klaar gemaakt hebbende, dat tot een 
(179) aankomende Batailje dienen kon, en twee Lont- 
stokken gereed staande, gaf Draager maar weinig 
eeten, om niet slaaperig te worden. Ik nam fijne 
Beschuit met wat wijn, en begaf my naa kooy, 
zoo lang slaapende, tot Draager my wakker 
blaften. Ik ontwakende, hoorden veel getier, ge- 
schreeuw, en geroep, somtijts als of zy zongen. 

Uitziende, zag het Wrak in voile vlam, dat my 
zoo ontstelde, dat ik niet staan kon, kruipende 
naa mijn kooy, wierd flaauw ; doch weeder by my 
self komende, en alles overdenkende, bad ik God 
al schreyende om hulp, als naa een weinig uuren 
vuur in de Kruit-kaamer kwam, dat een ver- 
vaarlijke slag gaf, waar op een yselijk geschrey 
opging. Het geheele Leeger was omtrent het 
Wrak vergaderd, daar danssende, springende, en 
singende. Ik my stil houdende, verwagten wat 
daar van koomen wilde; en stelden my geheel 
gerust, denkende dat eeten, drinken, kruit, en 
loot had, in een sterk Fort, daar zy my niet 
konden doen. 

Dag wordende, en niemand vernemende, trad 
met Draager welgewaapend uit, rondom mijn 
Kasteel gaande, en met een verrekijker overal 
herom ziende, zag niets. 



van den El-ho 161 



Dagt teegen de middag eens naa 't "Wrak te 
(180) gaan, en te zien hoe het geschaapen stond. 

Naa ik mijn middag-maal gedaan had, stapten 
ik met Draager derwaarts, ik had een gelaaden 
Roer met een tou op mijn schouder hangen, en 
een Houwer op zijd. Daar koomende vond wat 
stukken en brokken, eenige nog brandende; de 
traanen bedauden mijn oogen op dit gesigt. 
Gaande met een bedroefd hert op den Uit-kijk of 
nog Menschen ontdekken kon, zag niemand, daar 
op needer zittende, raakten in slaap, ontwaak- 
ende, zag Volk by mijn Kasteel. Ik wierd geheel 
verschrikt, afkoomende, trad langzaam der- 
waarts, my ondertusschen bedenkende wat my te 
doen stond, naader koomende, zag wel dertig 
geverfden by mijn Kasteel, dat zy ingenomen 
hadden. Elk kan denken hoe ik te moede was. 
Ik dagt kort beraad goed beraad, neemende voor 
te sterven, of mijn Fort te winnen, mijn moed 
was meerder als ooit, ik agten haar niet meer als 
honden. Regt op haar aan treedende, kwam een 
van haar zonder spiets naa my toe, gaande op de 
hurk sitten, als voor deesen, ik wenkten hem op 
te staan, dat hy deed: zaamen stille staande, 
kwam nog eene uit haar troep, met een spiets naa 
my toe ; omtrent ten half weegen smeet hy zijn 
spiets van hem, by de eerste komende, ging op 
(i8i) zijn hurken sitten; ik wenkten hem op te staan; 
hy opstaande, wees my naa zijn Volk, klopten op 



162 



De Historie 



(182) 



zijn Borst, doende teeken dat my geen kwaad 
zou geschieden ; dus staande, en denkende wat ik 
doen wilde, wierd ik van agteren omarmt en ge- 
vat; die twee welke voor my stonden schooten 
ook toe, my met hun sessen mijn geweer ont- 
neemende, en mijn kleederen uit trekkende ; doen 
was ik zoo naakt als zy, denkende niet anders of 
zy zouden my dooden, te meer, om dat die geene 
welke by 't Fort waaren, met een gekrijt met 
hun spietsen kwamen aanloopen ; dog een van die 
my gevat hadden haar teeken doende, wierpen 
zy al haar spietsen van haar, en by my koomende, 
zaaten alle op haar hurken needer. 

En straks weer opstaande, vatten malkander 
by de hand, dansten dus al zingende om my heen. 
Ik wees na mijn Kasteel, denkende waar ik daar 
in, ik zou u anders leeren dansen. Die ses welke 
my uitgeschud hadden, en by my stonden, vatten 
my meede aan, en moest ook met haar dansen; 
waar op de anderen in haar handen klapten, en 
schreeuwende zoo hard zy konden. Ik dansten 
met een droevig gemoed, nu wel merkende dat 
zy my niet wilden dooden. Het dansen ge- 
eindigd zijnde, wees ik haar weer naa mijn 
Kasteel; waar op eene een schreeu geevende, 
kwamen nog wel twintig uit mijn kasteel te voor- 
schijn, welke haar daar in tot nog toe verborgen 
hadden; deese by ons komende, nam elk sijn 
houte spiets weer op, my in 't midden zettende, 



van den El-ho 163 



en begonden de strand langs te marcheeren; ik 
geduurig na 't Fort ziende, en dat passeerende, 
begon te schreijen, dat zy haar niet eens kreun- 
den. Wy passeerden ook de Staak daar ik mijn 
Kist &c. uit gegraven had, welke ziende, wierd 
mijn hert hoe langer hoe meerder beklemd. Dus 
ontrent [sic] ses uuren langs strand voortge- 
trokken zijnde, keerden zy haar links het Bosch 
in, en hielden naa een half uur halte, eenige wat 
vrugten haalende, daar wy alle van aaten; zy 
rukten wat takken van de Boomen, die tot hun 
beddingen schikkende rondom my heen, my 
eenige meede deelende, die ik onder een grooten 
Boom needer leide, daar naakt op leggen ging, en 
zoo koud wierd als ys. Zy laagen rondom my, 
slaapende gerust, behalven ses die altijd wakker 
bleven, en de wagt al zingende rondom my hiel- 
den, die t'elkens door anderen afgelost wierden. 
Ik kon door haar zingen en koude niet slaapen; 
zy dat merkende, maakten vuur j my daar by leg- 
gende, bekwam ik wat. Ik beval my aan God, 
(183) en verwagte geduldig wat my weedervaaren zou, 
denkende geduurig om mijn Kasteel. 

Des morgens gingen wy weer aan 't marcheer- 
en, en raakten naa een uur uit het Bosch by een 
poel, alwaar wel duisend korfjes van dunne 
rijsjes gevlogten stonden, van fatsoen en groote 
als mijn Konstaapels lantaarn ; hier van nam 'er 
elk een, aan my ook een geevende ; ik bezag dit, 



164 De Historie 



vindende het van binnen den bodem, en half weg 
de hoogte met leem of pot-aarde bestreeken, daar 
bast van Boomen in lag; ik konde niet weeten 
wat dit beduide ; maar naa een uur gaans de Zon 
wat hooger rijsende, zag milioenen muggen en 
vliegen uit het moeras opkoomen, als wanneer zy 
straks vuur maakten, en elk sijn bast in de korf 
deed rooken; deese rook had een aangenaame 
reuk, en deed alle muggen en vliegen van ons 
blijven. Dit moeras gepasseerd zijnde, kwamen 
wy weeder teegen den avond in een Bosch, daar 
zy terstond vuur maakten, en rondom gingen 
leggen, my als voren bewaakende. 

Des morgens weer voort trekkende, kwaamen 
weer aan strand, aan een grooten inham ; omtrent 
twee uuren langs strand gegaan hebbende, ont- 
moeten een rivier, die langs gaande, raakten 
weeder in een Bosch, daar veele vrugten stonden ; 
(184) ontrent de middag halte houdende, kwam nog 
een Troep by ons, die eerst alle op de hurken 
gingen zitten; daar naa opstaande, zongen en 
dansten als gekken. Zy bragten vrugten meede, 
welke omgedeeld hebbende, trokken weer voort; 
naa omtrent twee uuren gaans vonden veele 
vlotten in de rivier, met touwen aan boomen, op 
't strand staande vast gebonden, met welke wy 
ons alle over zettende, toogen al voort, tot weder 
aan een rivier kwaamen, doende weeder met de 
daar leggende vlotten als te vooren. Dus wel 



van den El-ho 165 



ses a seeven rivieren gepasseerd hebbende, 
kwaamen aan een zandige vlakte. Nu hadden 
wy al seeven ofte agt daagen gemarcheerd. Ik 
was moede en mak, hoe wel zy my alle dienst 
deeden die zy konden. Deese vlakte overtrek- 
kende, kwaamen weder in een Bosch, als wanneer 
zy alle begonden te zingen, eenige al zingende 
voor uit loopende, zag ik van verre veele Men- 
schen, en hutten. Welke naaderende, kwamen 
zeer veele van de zelve ons teegen om my te zien. 
Nog vorder gaande, kwam ik voor een groote hut, 
daar een oudagtig Man in de deur zat, daar voor 
wy alle op de hurken moesten zitten; hy my 
nauw besiende, deed my by hem komen : hy hield 
een lang discoers met die, welke my gevangen 
(185) hadden; doch ik konde hun niet verstaan. 

Het discoers ge-eindigt hebbende, moest ik in 
de groote hut gaan, alwaar vier naakte Jonge- 
lingen, en ses naakte jonge Vrouluy sag, deese 
alle naa my toe koomende, bezaagen my zeer 
nauw, over al mijn lichaam tastende en voelende ; 
ik stond onnosel toe te zien, niet wetende wat men 
met my zoude aanvangen. Naa een uur begon- 
den zy alle in de tent te singen en te te [sic] 
danssen rondom my; en den Huis-heer ook wat 
gedanst hebbende, kwam een der voornoemde 
Vrouluy voor my op de hurke sitten: zy wees 
my dat ik ook zoo doen moest, 't welk doende, 
stond den Ouden op, ons elk een hand op 't 



166 



De Historie 



hoofd leggende, begon zoo hert te schreeuwen 
dat ik verschrikte, waar op die buiten de tent 
waaren antwoorden. Weeder beginnende te 
zingen, en te danssen, deeden die buiten de tent 
waaren het zelve. Dit naa gissing een half uur 
geduurd hebbende, stond het jonge Vrou-mensch 
op, my by de hand vattende, trad met my buy- 
ten, van de anderen gevolgt; brengende my in 
een daar bystaande leedige hut, daar deese 
Dogter en ik in gingen: de andere slooten de 
deure; daar naa al zingende weg gaande bleven 
wy met ons tween alleen in de hut, daar in zag ik 
(186) Hooy, gedroogde Blaaden, en biesen Matten. Ik 
was verkoud kuchende en hoestende ; zy deed my 
in 't Hooy ter needer leggen, en my met matten 
van biesen overdekt hebbende, kroop zy by my 
onder, om my te verwermen, dat zy op een aange- 
naame manier wist te doen. 

Deese Heidin had een zeeker Toover-character, 
daar zy my zoodaanig meede betooverden, dat ik 
al mijn ongemak, Kasteel en alles quam [sic] te 
vergeeten. 

Naa eenige uuren malkander zoo verwermd te 
hebben, dat wy zaamen wel sweeten, was ik van 
mijn verkoudheid geneesen. Wy opstaande, 
voelden ik de koude lugt weeder, en bevond doen 
eerst als een anderen Adam dat wy naakt 
waaren. Over al de hut doorsiende, zag daar 
een mand met gebraten Vis die nog werm was; 



van den El-ho 1G7 



zy een Haaring met haar hand daar uit 
krijgende, maakten die op, my die aanbiedende ; 
ik vatten die gelegentheid by 't hair, denkende 
ik zal de tijd waar neemen, en my daar van 
bedienen, en brasten zoo veel ik kon. 

Hier naa wierd de deur van onse hut geopend ; 
en ik haar volgende, bragt zy my weer in de 
groote hut, daar my gebraaden vlees, vis, en 
eyers wierden voor geset. Wei gegeeten heb- 
(187) bende gingen wy in de rivier vis vangen. Avond 
wordende, moest ik met mijn Heidin weer naa 
onse hut, daar wy tot den morgen bleeven 
slaapen. Mijn grootste ongemak was dat ik 
naakt moest gaan. 

Dus een maand of twee geleefd hebbende, ont- 
stond op een nagt en [sic] vervaarlijk geschrey, 
dat zig hoe langer hoe meer verheffende, mijn 
gesellin ook deed schreyen en krijten; ik ver- 
schrikte, zy omarmde my al krijtende; my los- 
laatende ging op haar hurke zitten, slaande voor 
haar borst ; ik de deure van onse hut opstootende, 
zag ontelbaare vuuren rondom, zoo verre ik 
beoogen kon, niet weetende wat dit beduiden ; zy 
wees my dat het onse Vyanden waaren, welke 
ons wilden dooden. Ik wees haar weeder dat wy 
zouden vlugten. Zy deed teeken dat wy rondom 
beset waaren. Wy gingen zaamen naa de groote 
hut. Den Ouden zat bedrukt en zugte. Ik een 
houte spiets neemende, verzogt manschap om de 



168 De Historie 



Vyand op te zoeken ; maar den Ouden sijn hoofd 
schuddende, kreeg een hoorn, gaande in de deur 
der hutte, en blies zoo hard als hy kon ; daar op 
volgde het geluit van wel honderd hoorens. Ik 
niet weetende wat dat beduiden, ging naa mijn 
hut, een houte spiets meede neemende, met voor- 
(18 8) neemen van my te verweeren, wien ook op my 
aan mogt komen. Mijn Gesellinne volgde my 
naa, kermende en krijtende; het wierd met 'er 
tijd dag, en zag van verre verscheiden Troepen, 
gekleed en gewaapend Volk, dat my kragtig ver- 
wonderde; hoorde ook schieten, dat my nog 
vreemder voor kwam; vattende mijn Vrou- 
mensch by de hand, wees ik haar dat zy met my 
daar naa toe zou gaan, my dogt zy zouden my 
niet dooden; dat zy niet doen wilde; ik dan 
alleen den Vyand te gemoet gaande, kwam by 
een troep Paarden, den Kapitein mijn ziende, 
hield stil; ik op mijn knyen vallende, leide 
mijn handen te saamen. Hy wenkten my by 
hem te koomen, dat ik deede, en wierd van 
hem nauw besigtigd, als zijn leeven geen blank 
mensch gezien hebbende. Hy deed my een Rok, 
Broek, en Muts geeven, ook een Paard daar op 
ik klom; maar mijn leeven niet veel te Paard 
geseeten hebbende, kan men denken hoe dat 
toeging. Ik reed in 't voorste gelit. Dus zagt 
voort rydende, kwaamen by onse hutten. Ik 
wees den Kapitein mijn hut daar ik woonde, bid- 



van den El-ho 169 



dende hem met gevouwene handen die te willen 
verschoonen. Hy zetten voort eenige Ruiters 
voor de deure, daar ik meede onder was. Nu 
zag ik verscheide Troepen van alle kanten aan- 
(189) koomen, een Kanon wierd afgeschooten, op welk 
zein het aan een moorden ging, dat bedroefd te 
zien was; zoo wel Mans, Vrouwen, als Kinders, 
lieten haar gewillig dooden, zonder haar meer te 
weeren als de oude Jooden op haaren Sabbath 
plagten te doen. Dit beweegde my tot schreijen, 
els wanneer een Onder-Officier my nors aan- 
ziende, op sijn Swaard klopten, dies moest ik 
swijgen, wijl hy ons die voor de hut stonden 
commandeerden ; ik bad hem of ik eens in de hut 
mogte gaan ? dat hy my met een wenk vergunde. 
Van 't Paard in de hut treedende, begonden zy 
alle te schreeuwen, zittende op haar hurken; ik 
hem, hemden ; waar op zy stil sweegen ; dit had 
ik van den Ouden geleerd, welke dat deed als hy 
gehoord wilde zijn : zy my aan mijn blanke aan- 
gezigt kennende, en mijn handen en voeten 
ziende, schoot mijn Vrouwmensch naa my toe, 
my omarmende al schreijende : ik hem, hem zeg- 
gende, sweeg zy stil; zy gaf my gebraaden Vis 
en Eyeren, die ik aan mijn gezelschap te Paard, 
nevens wat Fruit omdeelden, dat zy aan naamen 
en nuttigden. Het was wonderlijk dat alle deese 
menschen haar zoo gewillig lieten dood slaan, 
zonder de minste teegenweer te bieden, even als 



170 De Historic 



(loo) of zy alle tot een Goddelijke Offerhande gedoemd 
waaren. 

Het moorden geeindigd zijnde, reed ik als een 
gevangen nieuwen Ruiter met mijn troep weeder 
te rug, zonder te weeten waar heen. Naa eenige 
daagen marcheerens kwamen wy aan een arm 
van de Zee, daar meenigte Vlotten laagen, eenige 
met twee, andere met drie en vier zeilen; hier 
meede wierden wy alle overgezet. 

Onse Kompagnie was hondert man sterk, 
rijdende in tien gelederen, elk gelit had een Offi- 
Qier of Korporaal: in haar Standaards was op 
blaauw satijn een gouden Sonne, waar in den 
Engel Baloka in een purpere rok zat en schreef ; 
deesen had meerder oogen als van Argus ooit 
verdigt is; sijne gedaante was zeer wonderlijk, 
als geheel bestaande uit oogen, ooren en handen, 
dat my vreemt voor kwam. Wy waaren de eerste 
Kompagnie die weeder keerden van drie duisend 
Ruiters, zijnde Hulp benden, welke dit Eiland 
Krinke Kesmes aan haare Nabuuren geleend 
hadden. Ik aan Land koomende, wierd in een 
Boeren huis gelegt, tot order van Kesmes kwam, 
dat ik daar zou komen. Daar komende, wierd ik 
in een Seholastique vergaadering gebragt, alwaar 
vier-en-twintig zeer agtbare Mannen zaaten. Den 

(i9i) Voorzitter deed my aan een klein taafeltjen 
zitten, daar papier, pennen en inkt op was ; men 
wees my dat ik schrijven moest, 't welk doende, 



van den El-ho 171 



ging mijn schrift rondom, elk van deese Heeren 
beschouden het, tot het een aanzienlijk Man in 
sijn hand krijgende, dat overluid las; hy op- 
staande, vroeg my in goed Hollands, hoe ik by 
de Natie Kaskes (welk woord beteekend Strand- 
ers, of Strand bewooners) gekomen was? Ik ant- 
woordende, verhaalde het geene my weeder- 
vaaren was; waar over zy haar alle zeer ver- 
wonderden. Hy gebood my dit alles op te 
sehrijven, dat ik vaardig deed, alzoo ik het zelve 
als een A. B. C. van buiten kon. 

Dit overgeleeverd hebbende, wierd het voort in 
deese Land-taale overgeset. Des agtermiddags 
kwaamen my tien Jongelingen, in die Hol- 
landsche taal begroeten, die zy vry wel spraaken, 
leezen, en sehrijven konden. 

Naa drie daagen wierde ik uit de Hoofd-Stad 
Kesmes, naa deese Stad Taloujael gesonden, om 
alhier geduurende mijn leeven, eenige Jeugd de 
Hollandsche taale te leeren, dat als nog mijn 
werk is. 

Men geeft my hier zeer eerlijk onderhoud, 
mijn Schoole is nooit sterker als ses jonge Lui- 
den, die ik in de Hollandsche Taale onderwijse, 
(192) en doe verstaan, spreeken, leesen, en sehrijven. 

Deese Zuidlanders meenen, dat het geluk van 
haar land, en haare goede en zeer heerlijke 
regeering, alleen afhangd van de goede opvoe- 
dinge der jeugd, daarom moogen hier geen todden 



172 De Historie 



van wijven, Sehool-matressen nog geen dronkene 
suipers, of kwaalijk gemanierde mannen, School- 
meesters zijn; de zulke worden veragt, zoo 
wel als die haar natuurlijk verstand ontbreeken 
neevens, de talmers en teemers, die niet glad van 
tong zijn. 

Zy gelooven hier, dat alle, of de meeste fouten, 
welke veele menschen als eigen zijn, zy die in 
haare Jeugd, van haare Opvoeders, en Onder- 
wijsers ontfangen, en dat de zelve dan door 
gewoonte haar by blijven. Daarora moeten hier 
de Schoolmeesters verstandig, zeer opmerkende, 
voorsigtig, en welleevende zijn. Ik heb my naa 
haare wetten gevoegd, en leeve nog daar naa zoo 
eerlijk als ik kan; daarom ben ik beschonken 
met deese roode Rok en roode Muts, dat hier een 
kleed van eere is. 

Het teeken op mijn Borst geborduurd, is in 
deese Landtaal El-ha dat is vryman. 






FINIS 





PT 


Smeeks, Hendrik 




5679 


A Dutch source for 




S8B413 


Robinson Crusoe 




1921 





PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



