Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



<3> 



a.s 






*^ oOS 



o 



CO 
00 



o 



rS S ►» 



d 



00 d 






^:s 






o 
H 

03 

• • 

o 



o 

d 
o 

00 

o 

'3 
S 



ap. 



4^ 

00 

d 






— -^ •* ®^ 









O . 

is 



0) 

a 
o 



^ «M 



OS 
- g 

n o 

0) 






•a d 



8a 

« QQ 0) 

^^** CO «M O 






hJ O ^ 

§ § s 



-^ c 






d 
o 



H 

GO 

o 



'd 

d 

c8 



QQ 
QQ 

d 
'd 



O 
CO 



08 



S 

boo 
Pi 

^ 00 

o -^ 
o *^ 

^^ 
d c8 



bo 

a 






-Swigs'^ 






w *s ^ 

b3 ® C 






u 
08 

a 



a , 

o8 O 

Wo 



SI 



o 





• • 



■-■F 



/ 



© 



// 










V. « 



/^.■. ^' 



- I 



. ■/ / 



r" 









' / 



• / 



^^'^. ^; ^/t^ 



. I' 



cy 



^» 



■'(■' 






/ 






/ J 






/7 



■ . */ 



.N 



,<-■;-' ,' 



^ 






FEMAJiE ROBINSON CRUSOE, 



A TALE 



H'l 



or m 



i^smsmoi^ WQOiioiEminssso 



■*^ 



' JiUxf a flower Ii bom to tduh aiMMn, 
And wait* hi •WMtnoM on tho doMit ak." 



NEW-YORK i 
PRINTED BY JARED W. BELL, 

Ka 17 Ann-streoL 

18S7. 



31*.' 



TH8 HEMV YOi<K 

PUBLIC UBRAK--' , 

rOR, I^KNntX ANT) ij 
tfe-DEW JV3UNDAT10N« 
1 R 1»tJI U 1 




Entbrid, according to the Act of Congretfl, in the year 1837, bj 
Jambd W. Bill, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the 
Southern Diatrict of New- York. 



■ 



• • • 



PREFACE. . 

Probably most readers of American West- 
ern newspapers, remember the several brief 
accounts that have, for years past, occasion* 
ally been given of children lost in the woods, 
in states beyond the Alleghany mountains. 
The following statement of an extraordinary 
case is more in detail, and its analogy to the 
circumstances attending the long residence of 
Alexander Selkirk upon an island, of which he 
was for a considerable period the only inhabi- 
tant, has induced the writer of the part of this 
work, entitled " The Conclusion," to let it go 
to the public under the title which Defoe gave 
to his highly popular production, " Robinson 
Crusoe," only adding a word characteristic of 
^ the difference of sex, the present subject being 
^ a heroine instead of a hero. In " The Con- 
^ elusion," New- York readers will easily recog- 
^nize some well known facts, concerning per- 
3 sonages not unknown to fame. May it be in- 
I dulgently received by the liberal minded citi- 
^zens of this country, who are ever ready to 
*" encourage every effort of the mind, the motives 
^ of which seem to be praiseworthy. 

^ Kkw^Torr, March, A. D. 1837. 



SI 



^ 



FEMALE ROBINSON CRUSOE 



CHAPTER I. 



Far in a wild, unknown to public view — 

Parxbll. 

Oh, Solitude ! where are the charms 
Which sages have seen in thy face? 

COWPBR. 

I AM a woman. I have arrived at about the age of 
twenty-seven years. My computation of time may or 
may not be exactly correct, but probably is not much 
oat of the way. 

Subsequent details, in this my long, yet I hope not 
uninteresting narrative, will more fully explain to the 
reader, what my difficulties are, upon the point of a 
just statement regarding the precise length of the term 
of existence, which I have so far passed in this trouble- 
some world. 

Who, to see me now, dwelling, as I do at present, 
like other members of a Christian community, amid 
1 



the refinements of the arts and sciences, enjoying the 
order, the peace and security, arising from the reign of 
law, morality and religion, would conjecture, that I had 
ever been a wild savage ? 
' Nevertheless, such is the singular fact. 

And worse than wild savage too— a solitary being ; 
never, since my almost helpless childhood, until I had 
attained to maturity, having had any intercourEe at all 
with a civilized society. 

I was, for a great length of time, as low in cultiva- 
tion of intellect, as the brute creation. 

During a great portion of my life I have been, 
although a delicate female, the sole tenant of a dreary 
wilderness, unless prowling beasts of prey, and noxious 
reptiles, might be considered as equal tenants with 
myself, of that hideous, howling waste. 

Yet now, that my mind has been educated, I can 
communicate to my fellow creatures, in an intelligible 
manner, the remarkable events of my former animal- 
like condition. 

And here, it becomes necessary that I should suggest 
to the reader, previously to a perusal of the particular 
occurrences set forth in these pages, not to be incredu- 
lous as to the circumstance of my remembering so 
clearly all the minute incidents of my involuntary exile 
in the wilderness, even though that remembering is 
still the more wonderful from the fact, that many of 
these events took place whjie I was yet a little child. 

But only think ye, kind reader, that I was suddenly 
torn from a comfortable home — ^left alone in a wild and 



trackless forest, each feeling new and highly exciting, 
and well calculated to impress itself and its associations 
firmly and lucidly on my mind. 

I had not so many affairs to occupy my thoughts as 
a member of refined society has. 

During my first and many subsequent sufierings, I 
was entirely alone. 

I was not engaged in conversation, or reading, with 
companions. 

My mind was continually dwelling upon the most 
trifling incidents; and the events of that dreary period, 
were thus so indelibly stamped upon my memory, that I 
do not run much risk of any great mistakes, by thus 
detailing particulars from one agitating occurrence, and 
one critical moment to another. 

And when I did temporarily enjoy a companion, our- 
mutual alternate perils and pleasures were almost 
exclusively the constant theme of our converse, for 
there were but the feelings of only two persons to talk 
about 

At any rate, for the sake of gratifying the reader 
with a continuous story, I have ventured to write, as if 
memory had yielded up to my bidding, all the minute 
circumstances as they actually transpired. 

Another single word as to the cognomen of this 
work, and I have done with all prefatory observations, 

A male friend was looking at my manuscript, which 
was the production of leisure hours, after I had been 
relieved from solitude and grown to maturity, and had 
commenced my education, while I was yet learning, as 



8 

if a mere little school-girl, the rudiments of the art of 
reading and writing. Although I wrote without a 
view to publication, yet my friend remarked, that the 
reading world ought to have the particulars of my 
narrative, and that " Female Robinson Crusoe** would 
be quite a characteristic title. 

So now, dear readers, ladies and gentlemen, the form- 
er fair and young, the latter manly and well bred, clear 
your eyesight if you intend to begin reading, for I 
venture, not egotistically, but only from the remarkable 
nature of the facts, to aflirm, that if you are once fairly 
into the story, you will have to tire your organs of 
visions pretty well, before you can tear them away 
from the fascination. 

Not to detain ye any longer, here it is, by my own un- 
sophisticated and unscientific pen, told as well as my ig- 
norance of grammar and of poUshed phrases will allow. 

The most distinct among my earUest recollections 
are, that I, together with several other small children 
of about my own age, one pleasant summer morning, 
were walking about in the woods, having strayed 
thither from home a. considerable distance, in search of 
berries. 

While we were employed in plucking the produce of 
the bushes, our little tongues prattling, and our childish 
thoughts bent upon our sports, we were frightened at 
the appearance of a huge wolf, which made at us with 
great ferocity. 

The fierce animal came from that part of our way 
which was toward our homes, and we ran very fast, 



9 

ftirthet and farther, in the direction opposite to our* 
place of residence. 

Each one of us saved himself or herself as he or she 
could. 

I can well remember, as if it were but yesterday, 
that I heard dreadful screams behind me ; but whether 
any one of my companions was devoured by the terri- 
ble animal or not, I was unable then to divine. 

My alarmed imagination induced me to suppose, 
that the creature bad singled me out and was in full 
chace. 

In my endeavours to escape, having fled I do not 
know how far, without once pausing to look behind 
I at last sank upon the groimd, completely exhaust- 
ed by fatigue in running, and overcome with terrors of 
mind. 

I laid thus helpless for about twenty minutes, then 
reviving, arose and looked fearfully around for the late 
object of my dread ; but neither beast of prey, nor any 
of my companions were to be discerned. 

How far I had wandered I could not tell, but no 
doubt it was several miles from my home. 

The country was then but sparsely settled. 

I bad frequently been in this forest, but never so far, 
and now every thing looked strange to me. 

The well known footpaths were not there. The 
usual marks and signs by which I had hitherto, in my 
wonted rambles, always found my way back to my pa- 
rents were missed— ^he old hollow chestnut tree, the 

often passed swamp, the deep glen, the precipitous rock, 
1* 



10 

the fieautiful brook, and the sound of the cascade^ — all^ 
all were gone. 

Long and long I strolled about, noir this way, now 
that ; one while climbing a high tree, from whose top 
nought met my eye, but the thick umbrageous foliage 
of the primitive forest : an<Mi, shouting at the full ex- 
tent of my tiny, feeble Totce, in hopes that some kind 
friend would be attracted to my assistance. 

But aU in vain. Night approached, and I was &in 
to seek some place of rest and shelter. 

Rest ! ah ! thought I, would that I was again at 
home in my own dear little snug, comfortable bed. 

Shelter 1 Ah, what shelter was there to be found in 
these wild woods 1 Where were my parents, brothers 
and sisters now t 

Probably they had missed me, had been all day mi^ 
king vain searches for me, and were now retracing their 
disconsolate steps homeward, having resigned all 
hopes of discovering me ; and not supposing that such 
a child as I was, could have gone very far from the 
house ; perhaps conjecturing that I had become a prey 
to the wild beasts. 

Yes ; while the solemn shadows of the evening were 
deepening in around the fields and forests, the members 
of my fathers family, were doubtlessly gathering about 
the well supplied supper-table, from which one and not 
the least noisy of the little sisters who used to be seen 
in that once cheerful circle, was now unaccoxmtably 
and sorrowfully absent. 

Where was she 1 Alas ! Away off in the lonely 



11 

forest, without a roof to cover her ; without food to 
nourish ; without a bed to rest her wearied little limbs 
upon ; exposed to all the hidden perils which lurk there 
at midnight, and which might fatally assail a helpless lit- 
tle girl, destitute of a protector or any companion, amid 
the dark recesses of a savage wilderness. 

Such were my melancholy reflections. 

What was to become of me 1 I cast my eyes upward 
to the sky, and now beheld, added to the dreaded ap- 
proach of night, appearances of a threatening storm, 
whose speedy coming, the accumulating and frowning 
clouds denoted. 

I had all sorts of dreadful notions in my head — ^wild 
beasts, rain, serpents, cold air, the Ughtning's stroke, 
and even ghosts and hobgoblins ; for my childish soul 
was filled with the wildest chimeras, and I was a firm 
believer in the occasional appearance of good and evil 
spirits, and spectres from the grave, as what children 
are not 1 

But although the shades of a clouded evening were 
still deepening more fearfully upon the gloomy land- 
scape, and all sorts of fanciful shapes and appearances 
startled me, as if the woods were aUve with robbers, 
serpents, spectres, wolves and bears ; yet no place of 
refuge presented itself to my eyes, deemed by me to be 
worthy of my using for a retreat ; where I could at least 
be sheltered firom torrents of rain, even if I should vain-^ 
ly woo sweet oblivious sleep to my eyelids. 

Every rustle of a leaf, I construed into the motion 



IS 

made by the intipieiic sprincof aUfcroraaiakeytode- 
Toar rae alire* 

I would inYDluntaiily leap asuie, vhile my staring 
eyes were stzained opea wider lo behold what I dreaded 
to see, and I coold feel my baks erect themedYes upon 
mT head in the extremhT of tenor. 

For some ii_o^ents^ I could acarcdy more forwaid 
thiou^ verr weakness i d the trembling of all my 
limbs; while my little knees knocked together; my 
teeth chattered ; and a cold sweat bedewed my whole 
body. 

By this time too, I was pretty well scralched with 
briarsy and my frock was torn, and in many places hung 
in rags. 

Still the sky and other scenery grew darker and 
darker. 

The night wind sighed plaintively among the trees. 
The owl hooted near me, and many birds were seen 
fluttering above me over their nests, where they were 
preparing for their comfcnrtable roost and peaceful for- 
getful slumbers, during the dark, long and silent hours; 
which gloomily would pass over my youthful head, and 
bring only new and accumulating horrors to my deli- 
cate frame. 

Still cherishing glimmerings of hope, the abso- 
lute and imperious necessity of finding some sort of a 
temporary shelter before pitch dark, winged my foot- 
steps ; and with the renewed vigor of a desperate de- 
termination to make one final struggle for the preserva- 
tion of existence, again I dashed heedless of thorns, 



IS 

througli bush and brier ; leaped, regardless of trifling 
bruises, over rock and rividet, sprang careless of an oc- 
casional tumble, down abrupt descents, climbed with 
excessive toil up rugged precipices ; and all the while 
strained my eyeballs to the utmost, in every direction, 
as I fancied the black shade made by the wide spread 
foliage of an enormous tree, to conceal the form of some 
dreadful source of danger, or as my keenly susceptible 
ear was affrighted with the waving of the boughs, or 
the fall of a rotten twig broken off by the settling move- 
ments of birds going to rest. 

It was now dark night. The sky also became com- 
pletely overcast. The low, deep muttering of distant 
thunder was heard, and at last, a sharp flash of light- 
mng only helped my eyesight for an instant, to give me 
a transient glimpse of the wilderness around me, and 
show a cheerless unbroken solitude, which was then so 
instantaneously again enveloped in darkness, made 
still blacker by the contrast to the dazzling brilliancy of 
the lightm'ng's blaze, that my recent view of the sur- 
rounding forest by the flash, in the bewilderment of my 
tsenses, seemed more like the phantom of a dream than 
aught of waking and stern reality. 

I began to be very weary. Heavy drowsiness 
weighed down my eyelids, in spite of my attempts to 
keep my eyes open for security sake, and how, or when 
I dropped, I never could recall to my sense of recollec- 
tion, for the next moment of returning consciousness, was 
at my awakening from a sound sleep, with the sun shin^ 



14 

ing into my eyes in occasional gleams through the 
branches of the trees directly over my head. 

Every limb and every bush, was hung with glittering 
drops of rain, which looked Uke a variety of rich spark- 
ling jewels — the diamond, topaz, emerald and ame- 
thyst, from the hues awakened in each trembling^, sus- 
pended drop, by the sportive sunbeams. 

But, alas ! little inclination had poor I, for admiring 
the beauties of the landscape, just at that moment of 
awakening, or of listening to the merry tunes of the 
feathered songsters of the air, who were flitting from 
spray to spray, in the genial light and warmth, and ca- 
rolling their artless lays in the sweetest manner ; for 
my delicate limbs were benumbed vnth the chill of the 
night hours and of the rain which had plentifully soak- 
ed my clothing and hair ; I felt exceedingly sore and 
stiff, and scarcely could rise into an erect posture. 

Looking around me, and not perceiving any immedi- 
ate danger, and ill as I was, yet feeling grateful to God 
for life, and the blessed light of the morning, I knelt and 
prayed in the moming prayer which my dear mother 
(perhaps at that moment weeping for my loss,) had 
taught me, and which duty I have continue I to fulfil 
in these same words up to this hour of my writing, viz., 
" I thank thee, Oh God ! for all thy mercies to me the 
night past, that I am alive this moming ; bless all my 
dear friends, protect us during the coming day, from 
every evil, and may we live to thy gloiy, for Jesus 
Christ, our blessed Saviour's sake. Amen !" 

Then divesting my stiffened limbs of the wet gar- 



15 

ments, whose clinging coldness struck a damp through 
me, I suspended them on different parts of the bushes, 
in the sunshine, and selecting a soft, mossy bank, which 
the heat of the sun's rays had dried and was warming, 
I laid down upon it, and pondered upon my forlorn and 
desolate condition. 

What an awful situation for a girl of tender years. 

I do not suppose, that I was more than eight years of 
age. Perhaps scarcely that. 

I shuddered, after I had listened awhile in vain, to 
detect some sound, which could assure me of the vicini- 
ty of human habitations. 

Oh then ! with what ecstacy would I have hailed 
the enUvening and spirit-stirring crow of the barn-yard 
fowl, ,the bleating of a sheep, or the long protracted note 
of the docile cow, the bark of a dog, the echoing of the 
wood-chopper's axe, the report of a fowling piece, the 
tinkling of a cow-bell, the neighing of a horse, or the 
simple music of the mellow horn, whose welcome blast, 
when that instrument is played upon by the practised 
skill of the domestic wife of the farmer, recalls the toil- 
ing husbandman from his distant and early labours, to 
partake of a warm, nourishing breakfast. 

There seemed to me to be a prospect of my perishing 
in the woods, from wild beasts or exposure ; or else, if 
my childish helplessness could escape these perils, I 
was still threatened with a lingering death by the hor- 
rid tortures of vulture famine gnawing at my vitals. 

Young as I was, I was old enough to appreciate to a 
considerable extent my true situation. 



16 

In fact, my inexperience lent aggravated, imaginary 
horrors to my real evils. 

I hope the kind reader, will not charge me with pre- 
sent pueriUty in steting my childish thoughts while in 
the woods. 

I had been accustomed at my father's house, to have 
my reasonable desires supplied by asking. 

" I want a piece of bread and butter, mother," was 
the greatest stretch of expression of care and forethought 
in my personal concerns, that I had been used to. And 
the tempting slice of bread and butter was quickly sup- 
plied to me, or else, I was chided with the pleasing reply, 
that I might as well wait with the other children for a 
minute, as my dinner would then be ready, when I 
should have some nice meat and potatoes, and pudding 
after it, which same pudding, was then in my childish 
simplicity the very acme of all my hopes and ambition, 
the summum bonum of all my desires. 

But now, I had wandered, dinnerless through the 
day, and supperless through the earlier part of the night ; 
had swooned or dropped down upon the ground uncon- 
scious at midnight from mingled sensations of weakness, 
suffering and terror; had slept upon the bare earth, un- 
covered, save by my usual habiliments of wear, pelted 
by torrents of drenching rain ; the angry blast sweeping 
remorselessly over my almost infant limbs and features, 
in the black darkness, and in a wild unbroken foiest. 

I had awakened, wet, cold, stiffened and sick. 

No kind mother came as formerly to my bedside and 
kissed my cheek ; but the rays of the sun directly from 



17 

their source, unobstructed by window or other artifiiciali 
human contrived defence, fell upon my exposed features, 
and slowly recalled my half distracted senses from a 
state in which death would have been welcome relief^ 
back to painful life. 

No soft, supporting arm dressed me as usual^ no 
cheering and familiar voice summoned me to my wont- 
ed morning's meal. 

I was hungry and alone, all in the wide and as to 
human footsteps, otherwise than by me untrodden 
forests. 

I looked up to the azure sky, through the waving 
branches of the trees, and I could behold the blue ex- 
panse stretching to the utmost Umits of sight in every 
direction. 

My view glanced down to my feet, and thence off 
along the ground every way. 

Only bushes, hills, roots, trunks of trees, rocks, 
swamps, and a brook met my saddened eye ; but none 
of the ordinary accompaniments of my late morning 
contemplations at my parent's comfortable home, viz., 
a bed, carpet, chairs and tables ; the protecting and 
well whitened side walls of the long used sleeping 
apartment, out of which I had never before now slept, 
since the day of my birth in that very room ; a ceiling 
over my head, where as my refreshed limbs enjoyed the 
soft fe»l of the downy pillow and the mass of feathers 
beneath me, I used to gaze so often just after awaken- 
ing in the morning and watch the ever busy spider 
weave its web and ensnare the silly fly ; a window, to 



18 

lift the sash up or down in order to iarite fresh fragrant 
summer airs, or exclude freezing winter winds, as ap- 
propriate temperature made the one or the other act de- 
sirable, or to look out of on the domestic scenes of rural 
peace and plenty — the barn-yard, the poultry, the cattle 
chewing their cud, the members of our beloved family 
passing to and fro, my mother, sister, or the helpmaid 
milking the gentle kine, my brother or one of the hired 
men in the stable supplying hay to the horses, another 
person looking into the henhouse in search of eggs just 
laid, wherewith to eke out the refreshing morning meal^ 
or to store away against calls for that one constituent of 
the delicious custard, or some one of the great variety 
of cakes which I had been used to partake of with so 
much exquisite gratification to the palate. Ah ! no, 
here were neither friends nor household comforts, farm- 
yard nor breakfast table, orchard nor meadow, cornfield, 
roads, nor division fences to break the vast extent of 
solitary waste ; but all was one wide, inhospitable, un- 
promising and cheerless desert of barren rocks, tall trees 
and hideous looking dark recesses, from which, every 
moment, in my girlish terror, I expected to see emerge 
to my destruction, some fierce beast of prey with glaring 
eyeballs, terrible claws and yawning mouth, eager to 
seize on my tender limbs, and devour me alive. 

I burst into tears, wrung my httle hands in the very 
extremity of heait rending, human agony, and ^ked 
up to Heaven in vain entreaties for help, for divine as- 
sistance, and on my countenance must have been ex- 
pressed my heartfelt beggings for mercy, which horrible 



19 

agitation of mind made too powerful for utterance, and 
I knew that every lineament upon my speaking face, 
looked petitions for food and shelter. 

The sun was now riding high in the heavens, it 
might be noon. 

I handled my clothes as they hung upon the bushes. 
They were completely dried, and I very soon was rein- 
Tested in them. 

They were so torn, that I looked like a little ragged 
beggar girl ; but pride was fled from me, for mortified 
vanity was too trifling an evil among the numerous 
great ones which pressed upon me in my present desti- 
tute condition, to influence me at all. 

I would then fain hav»3 renewed my attempts to find 
some settled neighbourhood, or some human presence 
in that wilierness, but my bones ached so much, and I 
was so lame, that such attempts would at that time, 
have been utterly futile. 

While I laid upon the mossy bank, where after I had 
dressed, I again threw myself in a half rec mbent pos- 
ture, sobbing and sighing, ard wiping my eyes with my 
muslin sleeve, until the skin of my cheeks was rubbed 
sore, my sight fell upon a small land turtle which crept 
by me. 

There is something Uving here, besides these birds 
and myself, thought I, which is as harmless as my- 
self. 

Then, a large snake uncoiled itself slowly within a 
few feet of my resting place, where it had been lying 
unobserved by me, until that moment of its motion, or 



so 

if it had been observed, I had not deemed it aught else 
but a ffray rock, half hidden aruoog^ the leaves and 
biLrheis. 

I started upright upoa my feet at sight of the serpent. 
My lameness was forgotten, and I ran as far and as 
fast as mv little les^ would carrv me, and until stum- 
Ming against a projecting stump of a tree, which, al- 
though it had rotted almost entirely away, had yet left 
a small portion above the ground, I pitched head fore-* 
most against a large sharp stone, directly upon the up- 
per part of my forehead, and cutting a deep gash, and 
being stunned by the violence of the concussion, fell 
prostrate and bereft of my senses. 



CHAPTER 11. 

The smiles of joy, the tears of wo 
Deceitful shine, deceitful flow. 

MooRE. 

• I MUST have laid senseless for a consideraUe length 
of time, because when I had recovered my conscious- 
ness, I so judged by the declination of the sun adown 
the western sky. 

There was a good deal of blood upon the ground, and 
on my clothes and skin, which had flowed from the 
wound in my forehead. 

For many minutes after I had revived, my recoUec. 
tjon did not fully return. 



21 

I was scarcely aware of my situation, or in what 
place I was, or what had happened to n:e. 

At length, the sight of the blood ; the pain of the 
blow which my head had received ; the smarting of 
the exposed flesh where it had been cut ; my weakness 
from the loss of so much of the vital current of the 
veins, from want of nourishment, and from the many 
sufferings and terrors of mind which I had lately under- 
gone ; the stiffness of all my joints ; the soreness of 
my flesh ; the truly prostrated state of all my mental 
and physical powers ; and the view of the surrounding 
woods, all combining, caused my struggling memory 
slowly to resume its wonted energies ; and my soul 
sunk under the accumulation of horrid ideas and feel- 
ings, which rushed, thronging in heart-sickening and 
stern reality, upon my bewildered brain. 

Young as I was, I had some understanding of the na- 
ture of death, and the certain prospect of an approach- 
ing dissolution of all my powers of life and sen^tion, 
came upon me with startling effect. 

I earnestly prayed to my God, in my simple, unso- 
phisticated language, feebly uttered by my sinking 
voice, to receive my soul into the blessed regions of the 
immortal spirits of the just, and then I tranquilly resign- 
ed myself to coming death. 

But, it was not God's will, that I should yet expire. 

I had a life of sorrow and pain before me ; yet not 
a life unchequered with fleeting moments of exquisite 
and thrilling pleasures. 



22 

The pangs of raging hunger began to gnaw within 
me with redoubled force and effect. 

I rolled my eyes around in greedy search for food. 

I felt at that awful moment, which I can never forget, 
while existence and reason shall endure, as if I would 
have devoured any thing capable of affording alleviation 
to my wolfish appetite, even a living insect or worm, 
and I actually looked with longing eyes upon the flesh 
of my own hands and arms, as victuals appropriate to 
gorge my cannibal desires. 

I put my tongue into the puddle of blood, which had 
flowed from my own veins, but instantly spit it out, in 
loathing and sickness, at the revolting feelings which a 
taste of it produced. 

Some berries at a short distance then attracted my 
attention. 

Gracious heavens ! how the welcome, aye, en- 
rapturing sight thrilled through every nerve of my 
frame. 

It exhilarated me so much, that I was enabled to 
drag my enfeebled limbs towards the bushes which bore 
the berries, by crawling along the weed-tangled ground, 
upon my hands, knees, and sometimes even edging my 
body forward like a worm of the earth. 

Having slowly thus attained the immediate vicinity 
of the object of my arduous exertions and last lingering 
powers of locomotion, I pulled the few bunches down 
that were on those branches, and enjoyed such a feast as 
never before nor since, it has been my happy lot to meet 



23 

with, even among all the daintiest luxuries of the most 
costly entertainments. 

A little farther on were more berries, of a different 
kind, to which I also gained access in the same creep- 
ing posture, though in quicker motion, from the refresh- 
ing and stimulating influence of the trifling morsel 
which had supplied my stomach. Like oil poured into 
a lamp, whose light was going out from the emptiness 
of the vessel, was that taste of food upon my expiring 
energies. 

As the flickering flame of the taper just before its ex- 
tinction, suddenly shoots up high and emits a terapora-' 
ry flash of more brilliancy, so my sinking vitality, about 
to be darkened forever in the shrouded gloom of death, 
flashed up in the fluctuating feeling between life and 
death when I caught sight of the berries, and as I was 
about to expire, the salutary and life giving succulence 
in that simple taste, revived my fading strength, and 
the added oil of human existence made the dimmed 
flame of my humble life's spirit sparkle out anew, and 
burn bright, clear and lasting. 

Oh ! the rich flavour of that berry juice. Surely 
neither the fabled nectar nor ambrosia of the ancient 
heathen mythology, could have possibly been imagined, 
to be superiour in relish upon the tongue, or in fra- 
grance upon the senses, to the exquisitely delicious vic- 
tuals and beverage, which the substance and juice of 
those wild berries then afforded to the hungry and keen 
susceptibility of my palate. 

Those wild berries, flung there, into the midst of a 



24 

solitary wood, where wild beasts prowled, unscared by 
footsteps of human hunter ; those simple berries, yet 
sweet, abundant to exuberance, tempting to the look 
and taste, scattered there by the hand of an all bounte- 
ous Providence, as if to save the life of a humble, little, 
lost wanderer, like myself, at the moment of my direst 
extremity, when food without an hour's delay, or speedy 
death from exhaustion, was the only alternative — ^it 
struck me with an argument in favour of an All Seeing 
Divinity, who must have created, and now governs the 
world, the deep impression of which argument upon my 
youthful mind, no sophisticated web of well-spun 
theory can ever veil from my sense or even obscure in 
the smallest degree. 

I gathered strength as I continued devouring the ber- 
ries, for the voracity with which I glutted my appetite 
with the luscious fruity x;laims the term devoming as 
more appropriate to the occasion, than merely the word 
eating. I did not stop to chew them with my teeth, or 
roll them around in my mouth with my tongue, as is 
usual in ordinary eating, but I swallowed them whole 
and as fast as my little fingers could pick them off the 
'bushes, and cram them between my lips, while the deli- 
cate skin of my hands, arms and face was torn and la- 
cerated by the thorns and briars, which met my efforts 
to get at the berries every time I put forth my fingers 
to pluck the object of my ardent wishes. Not content- 
ed with the ripe ones, I gorged down the whole that 
met my view ; whether ripe or unripe ; supaall and hard ; 
or large, soft and fully formed. I did not even have 



85 

the patience to pick singly each berry carefully from 
the branch, but so starved was I this afternoon, in con- 
sequence of having been without any nourishment from 
the morning of tlie day previous to this, and also from 
the severe and continued exercise in running, which I 
had taken, and probably also from having been during 
the whole time in the open air and in the storm, that 
when my eye caught but the glimpse of a bunch of ber- 
ries hanging upon the stalk, I leaped forward towards 
the foodyjlfce a wild animal upon its prey, seized the 
the whdro with both of my little hands, with the 
greediest avidity tore them from their place, and stuffed 
them into my mouth, the ripe ones and unripe ones 
together, the withered blossom and dried up buds, the 
leavCsj thorns and parts of the stalk, which in my hun- 
gry eagerness and violence, were broken off, together 
with the berries, upon which aliShe my eyes were fixed. 

My strength had come back to me so much, that I 
was at last able to stand upon my feet, and then I flew 
around from bush to bush, and from place to place, 
wherever my attention happened to be momentarily at- 
tracted to some shining black source of nourishment 
and satisfaction to niy hungry longings. And in fact, 
I found a great variety of berries, it being midsummer, 
and the location, as I have since ascertained, in the 
fertile regions on the eastern borders of the majestic 
Mississippi River, and in the present flourishing state of 
Illinois, then so comparatively unsettled. 

I. ate blackberries, whortleberries, occasionally a few 
raspberries, the season of the latter of which wasi 



26 

nearly over, and near the berry bushes I found one small 
wild cherry tree, which supplied me abundantly with 
that enlivening and almost intoxicating fruit. The 
quantity of berries and fruit, that I had thus so voracious- 
ly devoured, must have been enormous, for not only 
could I ascertain by the numerous stripped bushes, what 
a great number of berries had been displaced and trans- 
ferred into my stomach, but I began to suffer great pain 
within me, from the injurious effect of a too hastily sat- 
isfying my appetite, after such a long total abeUnence, as. 
I had previously endured. w 

In fact, the pain came upon me while I was eating,^ 
and increased to such a degree, as to oblige me to pauses 
in my feast. 

At length, it grew to be so violent, that it lunoonted 
to excruciating agony. 

I flung myself upon the earth, rolled my body over 
and over in the greatest torment, and for sometime 
thought that I should soon entirely cease to live. 

A great retching from my stomach came to my par* 
tial relief, for I vomited most excessively and quite a 
long time. Nearly all the rest of the day and evening, 
I was in much pain. A great part of the night, almost 
unconscious of the descending damp^ and heavy dews, 
wci^ passed by me in a state of severe bodily suffering. 
Towards morning, although lying upon the bare ground 
find in the open air, exhausted by paini and weariness, 
I fell into a sweet slumber. 

As had been the case with me the preceding night, I 
p^lso ilept through the remainder of this second period 



27 

of darkness, which I had passed in the woods, and it was 
not until the morning sun had mounted high in the 
heavens, and sent its piercing rays of hght directly upon 
my face, that I awoke. 

Strange to say, I felt myself very much refreshed. 
Youth recks little of trouble, and its mind and body 
spring elastic from the recent pressure of calamity. 

My constitution must have been uncommonly vigour- 
ous, to have withstood the rigors to which I had been 
exposed. 

I had passed one whole day, the most part of another, 
and two dreary long nights in this forest ; had not par- 
taken of any other kind of food, than a mixture of ripe 
and unripe berries, and the tribute of the wild cherry-tree ; 
had been the whole time in the open air, in a storm of 
furious winds and drenching rain ; had gone to my re- 
pose on the naked earth, with the sky for my canopy, 
and my arm for a pillow ; had endured fright, bodily 
pain, and despondence of mind ; my skin lacerated by 
the briars ; my senses stunned by a fall ; wounded in 
that fall by encountering a stone, bled profusely, even 
to faintness ; and yet I now awoke actually refreshed. 

Succeeding my first thoughts, I fell upon my knees, 
clasped my little hands, looked up to heaven in the atti- 
tude of prayer, and thanked my Creator and Heavenly 
Preserver, for all his mercies to me, through the dan- 
gers and exposure of a second night. 

After I had stirred about a little, hunger again came 
upon me. In fact it had not been satisfied by the ber- 
ries and fruit, but the sickness which my voracity pro- 



iij^iitigK^z^ieA u: illij iLzsi r-ieLii^ whkh were caused 

hj a wan: o: fC'.f^r I'loi, je*. eut scc-ciiacri now revolted 
ai the id-ra <:£ ap. l. ca::^r o£ Cie kiii'i cc pcovisioD, the 
thoaghc? of ■**:.:.: li Tier-* c.^:*:ii:ai wLih ;he cauaea they 
had created. 

Altfaoogh refreshed. I was DeTc.thelescs still sore and 
stifl^ from the edeotsof having beea si3 much in the rain, 
and from the bniises and wouais I had received, and 
the fatigue I had unde:go:ie. 

Yet, food must be had. and I slowiv dra^^ed mv Umbs 
about, from place to place, in search of somewhat, which 
I hoped, yet without knowing why, woidd better answer 
the purpose, than berries or fruit. 

Passing by a bush, after I had wandered oat of sight 
of the spot where the berries grew that had made me 
80 ill, I frightened up a bird, which continued flying 
around and around the bush, screaming and occasicm- 
ally darting in and out of it. 

On examination, I perceived the object of its assidui- 
ties to be its nest. 

I peeped into the nest, and there lay seven or eight 
pretty looking, little speckled eggs. 

The thought instantly suggested itself to me, to 
avail myself of the present opportunity to procure some 
wholesome food. 

I snatched at an egg, broke one end of the shell 
carefully, and sucking its contents, received con- 
siderable satisfaction to my palate, from the half solid 
and half beverage which an egg affords. 

I took another, and sucked that also, and then an- 



29 

other with avidity, until at last, the poor bird bad not 
one solitary object, to yield its maternal cares and affec- 
tions upon. 

When I had eaten, or rather devoured the berries, I 
estimated that, as a feast beyond all feasts, and so it 
was ; but the eating of the eggs was a novel one and of 
another nature. It was variety. It was more substan- 
tial nourishment than the first banquet, it removed the 
disagreeable impressions left upon my mind by the ill- 
ness consequent upon excess, and the circumstance of 
finding them, inspired me with renovated hopes. Per- 
chancei (mused I,) death by starvation maybe avoided, 
if either berries or eggs were to be found in my wild 
abode. 

As to thirst,! might have mentioned, that I had drank 
freely out of small springs, and therefore did not expe- 
rience at all that deprivation, which is said to be the 
very greatest known source of human suffering, viz. a 
want of water to quench a raging thirst. 

But when the keen edge of my appetite' had been 
dulled by the supply of eggs, my thoughts which had 
been abstracted from my situation by desire of food, be- 
gan to revert again as before to my future prospects. 

Probably more eggs were to be had, but I might be 
days searching for them, and all the while starving for 
want of food. 

Besides, I was not too yoimg to know the cold of the 
winter season, and I well reflected that the time of snows 
and ice would approach in this climate with frightful 
severity ; and that without warmth and shelter^ I 

3 



so 

should be frozen to death, however I might escape bun* 
ger and wild beasts. 

Once more I sat down upon the bare earth, wept bitter 
tears of reflection upon my melancholy fate, and ima- 
gination was busy in conjuring up some sad catastrophe^ 
which no doubt awaited such a child as I was, in that 
wild and desolate region — ^not a roof to cover me from 
the night dews, from the rain and the coming snows, 
from the wintry blast when it would howl at midnight 
over the frozen dreary waste, and no walls to shelter me 
from the prowling beasts of prey. ^ 

Yes, I wept bitter teara indeed, tears of unaffected 
true agony, of human though childhood's woe. 

And yet, such is life, the life of every human being* 

If it is not perplexed with one evil, it is assailed with 
another, as I have experienced to my sorrow, since I 
have grown up« 

Trouble and affliction fly about among families in va^ 
rious shapes and appearances. 

Here, they take on themselves the seeming of rfck- 
ness ; there, poverty ; in another family th^^atter is 
loss of friends by death. , 

In one country, the tyrannical government of a cruel, 
and arbitrary despot, oppressing the inhabitants with 
heavy taxes, dragging them into ambition's battles, and 
exacting from them property and life, is the curse of 
which the people complain. 

In another, but happier country, though fortunately 
the government is a favourable one, the climate is the 



31 

fault, being extremely changeable and deleterious to 
healih. 

Misfortunes, despondency, perils of all sorts, mortal 
diseases and epidemics, and 

*' The thousand ills, which flesh is heir to,*' 

attack us, poor, frail beings of a day, and render our lot 
upon earth, even under the least untoward circumstances 
which nature permits, a most unenviable one to be sure. 

But a truce to prosing ; to my story, to my story. 

I wept, as I have said, and wept away s^ most people 
do, under such extreme affliction, until I became tired 
with weeping ; and young as I was, I began to enter- 
tain altogether new sensations, which doubtlessly are 
not akin to the usual feelings of childhood. 

Emergency aroused all my latent energies, and de- 
veloped them so rapidly, that in hours they leaped into 
the maturity of years. 

If I had all this while remained at home, entirely 
dependant upon elder persons, for food» clothing, and 
shelter, I should long have reinained as childish as is 
usual with youth under such circumstances. 

But now, death and personal danger were ever 
around me, and upon myself it depended, whether I 
should speedily perish, or still continue to live. 

I felt it to be so, and I acted accordingly. 

Turning my attention from all vain searching after 
the dwelhngs of my fellow creatures, and contempla- 
ting a compelled and perpetual residence, in these bar- 
barous politudes, alone, and without any friendly hand, to^ 



A 



32 

assist my labours, or encouraging human voice to cheer 
my spirits on through irksome tasks, amid these to me, 
such a child, most frightful wastes, I bethought me how 
I should obtain or make a shelter for my head at night. 

Had I been a person of the other sex, or of mature 
years, possessed of an axe, a hammer and nails, a saw, 
and other instruments adapted to the purpose, T might 
have felled trees and erected a hut. 

But here I was, destitute of any such artificial assist- 
ance, a little feeble girl, of ^ly about eight or nine 
years of age, totally inexpellenced in providing for 
myself; and even such a helpless creature as I was, 
what was still worse, labouring under lameness of leg 
and arm, bruised, shattered, cut, wounded, and the 
wound in my forehead still fresh and very sore, how 
disheartening was the enterprise which I proposed, 
that of* constructing a shelter for my person from the 
storms and beasts of prey. 

Nevertheless, nothing daunted, to work I went. 

First, I viewed a large rock, and thought that I 
might lay sticks upon it and the ground, one end of 
each stick upon the ground and the other end upon the 
rock, and thus have a structure resembling a dog's 
kennel, or a rustic pig-pen, which, covered with leaves 
and branches, would at least keep out snow and rain 
as I hoped. 

I saw long pieces of broken branches of trees lying 
about upon the ground, which had fallen from their 
parent stem, inconsequence of their decayed state, or 
else were torn off by the winds^ 



S3 

I collected a considerable number of these and placed 

'flieiu side by side, diagonally, one end upon the rock 

.^kn^one end upon the ground, until I had formed thus 

the frame of a roof, about twice the length of my own 

person. 

Then I cre{iC underneath, for it was too low for me, 
although so small in stature as I was, to go erect under 
it, and lying down at full length upon the grassy turf 
beneath it, I looked up to examine the inside appear- 
ance of the top of my new and humble house, the 
work of my own little hands, with feelings of mingled 
pride and joy. 

Thus it is demonstrated, that the first principles of 
architecture are natural to us, without the teaching of 
other minds. 

Even animals have their instinctive knowledge of 
that useful science. 

Who taught the bird and the bee to build their 
respective nest and hive, with such wonderful adapta- 
tion too, to their appropriate necessities ? 

And yet, what amazing skill and ingenuity, toil and 
patient perseverance, are exhibited there. 

The foxes have holes. The lion his lair. The tiger 
his den. 

So, we perceive, that the essential principle of archi- 
tecture, although simple, yet fully suflicient, is equally 
in the breast of human being, and in the impulses of 
the inferior part of animated creation. 

After I had leisurely and proudly gazed upon the 
progress of my labours; I arose from my prostrate pos- 
3*. 



S4 

lure, crept out of my yet unfinished hut, and searched 
for more branches, and also leaves. 

Of these, I found some upon the ground, and othen 
I tore from the bushes, and placed an abundance of 
them upon the frame of my roof, completely closing 
every aperture for air, except through the opening at 
the ends, by which I made ingress and egress* 

While I was building my house, I suffered consider- 
ably from the ceaseless attactos of myriads of mosche- 
toes, swarming since the recent hot rain, and also 
from the wound in my forehead. 

I had no linen pieces to bind it up with, and I was 
unwilling to tear my clothing any more than it was 
already torn by the briars. 

The garments which I had upon me constituted my 
whole wardrobe, and I could not expect to get any 
more after these were worn out. 

Yet, although I took no artificial means of curing, I 
was astonished to perceive, that my wound seemed to 
be healing from the natural strength of the internal, 
regenerating powers of the human body, without any 
external applications of plasters or salve, or any kind of 
emolUent, or even a rag to keep the air from getting 
into the exposed fiesh, and making me catch cold in it, 
as I had been used formerly to express myself on the 
occasion of receiving such a hurt. 

In fact, it will appear in the sequel, that so far fr(»n 
the open air retarding the closing up of the cut orifice 
in my skin, it seemed to operate with directly contrary 
effect, and to cure it more expeditiously than if I had 



95 

bandages, emollients, and attending physicians and 
nurses. 



CHAPTER III. 

'Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam, 
Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home. 

John Howard Patnb. 

I WALKED up and down before my progressing habi- 
tation, in all the pride of my little heart, and began to 
feel as if I was acquiring a home. 

However humble that home might be, still it prom- 
ised to be a place of shelter and refuge, and to become 
dear to me, from residence and daily associations of the 
spot, with something of the comforts of life. 

Having a roof to cover me, sidewalls in addition 
thereto, that is, a rock for one wall, and a slanting roof 
for the other, I sat myself to work to close up both ends, 
in order to prevent the wind from entering, except at 
my pleasure. As the space from the ground to the upper 
part of my dwelling was but small, I had little diffi- 
culty in piling up branches of trees, bushes, leaves, and 
pieces of bark, high enough to shut up completely 
both ends of my house. 

Now my house was done, and to view its internal 
proportions and symmetry, I prepared to enter over its 
threshold. Lo ! and lehold, although the house was 
well enough, yet I had so completely shut it up, that I, 
the builder and sole proprietor of this magnificent, 



36 

lordly mansion, could not find a single door or window, 
or any opening, by which to enter it. 

Wonderful architect, I was to be sure, to put up an 
edifice which I could not get into. 

My pride was quite chop-fallen, and in a state of 
mortified vanity and vexation at my folly, I had to set 
to work deliberately to pull away some of the branches 
from one side, so carefully placed there, in order to 
to leave a free passage into and out of my new abode. 

This was at length effected, and I thought the whole 
affair looked pretty rustic indeed, and more like ft huge 
pile of brushwood, leaves apd bark, than a human 
habitation. 

Now I had a house, but no furniture. 

Those persons, who live in the bosom of civilized 
society, and enjoy all its conveniences and comforts, 
can form but little idea how much they are dependant 
upon each other for assistance, and upon the articles of 
furniture, clothing, household and business accommo- 
dations, which even a small settlement, and not very 
refined society, afford ; houses, streets, the blacksmith's 
shop, the carpeiiter, the baker, the physician, the 
farmer, with his barns and instruments of husbandry, 
and supplies of poultry, flour, butter, milk, eggs, and 
cheese ; the milkman, the tailor, shoemaker, and not 
to be tedious^ all the various appendages of the social 

i9tate. 

I could not procure boards to constitute my floor. 
There were no sawmills, no nails or hammer, no me- 
chanical hand to share and md my undertakings, I 



37 

was alone. I was totally destitute, except as far as the 
siraplest state of nature could supply me with leaves, 
twigs, the side of a rock for half my shelter, and as my 
own, unassisted, feeble, little hands, and childish inex- 
perience could help along frail existence, through the 
many perils of my exposed situation. 

The thoughts of the red sons of the forest came across 
my mind. 

Where were they ? I knew that tribes of them roved 
about these wild regions. 

For, when I was at my parents home, I had occasion- 
ally seen small parties of Indians strolling about, and 
now I dreaded their approach. 

Should any of them see me, they would certainly, as 
I then judged, kill and eat me. 

For although the individuals of those aborigines whom 
I had met with when at my parents house, were docile 
and quiet, yet I well considered that they would be 
very different in their deportment, when they were far 
away off in their own wild haunts and free forests, un- 
restrained by fears of resistance from the white man, to 
their violent and predatory dispositions. 

But an encounter with the painted warriors of the 
tomahawk and scalping knife, was yet to come. 

Having completed my domicile, without floor (except 
as far as the ground partly covered with growing bushes 
and weeds might have been termed a floor ; without 
window or chimney, and a rude passage through branches, 
for a door way ; I again turned my active powers to- 
wards the obtaining of food. 



38 

The thoughts of it had been in my jnind, during 
my work at building a house, which had occupied 
nearly all the remainder of the day, since I had eaten 
the eggs. 

My hunger was still great, and I actually had be- 
come thin and wasted away by my various sufferingii 
and deprivations. 

There would be much novelty in a plate, which should 
represent me plucking, or rfither fiercely snatching at 
the berries; ragged, wounded, bleeding, emaciated; my 
clothes and person soiled with mud, and my whole ap- 
pearance squalid and ghastly. 

Oh ! ye children without personal cares, who have 
good soft beds, a comfortable breakfast table to eat at 
in the morning, a fond mother to hug you in her arms, 
and soothe your ebullitions of petty peevishness, or ir- 
ritable demonstrations of trifling pain, you can but little 
appreciate the value of such things at home, amid your 
luxurious ease. 

To estimate them according to their real value, you 
must first, like poor little me then, in that dreary wilr 
demess, hav^ lost them all. 

In search of food, I dragged my wearied stifiened 
limbs to and fro, but all in vain. 

Neither bferry, eggy nor aught else savoury or nour- 
ishing was near me. 

As evening drew nigh, I began to experience the 
usual feelings, which the approach of night causes every 
where, and under all circumstances, viz. drowsiness, fa^ 
tigue and depression of spirits. 



3d 

All iiiy troul>le8 rushed upon my consciousness, with 
treble force, and I gave way to tears, in all the unre- 
itrained luxury of woe. 

I wept long and abundantly. My eyes must have 
been red and much inflamed with excessive weeping*^ 
and the descending drops saturated my dress about my 
neok and bosom. 

My thoughts reverted to my former honle, to the plea- 
sant voices of the different members of our family, to 
the oft patting on my head of neighbours and aftrangers, 
when they looked upon me, snliled and said, I was a 
pretty and promising little child. 

Ah I what availed now all my beauty and promise 1 
Alone in the wilderness, soon to become a prey to famine, 
wild beasts, or human beings no less savage than the 
brute monsters of the desert. 

Though half famished, yet ifi despair of gfetting food 
that night, I crawled into my new abode, and laid down 
at full length to pass this third night of my absence 
from my parents, under its humble though protecting 
roof, which was at least not so unpromising as tny ex- 
posure in the open air, during the whole of the two for- 
mer nights, and one of them in a severe storm of wind, 
rain, and sharp angry lightnings. 

But finding the ground a hard bed, although I bad 
scarcely thought of that inconveniencfe during the tWd 
preceding nights, while exposed to worse evils, for hav- 
ing one comfort leads us on to desire another, I arose, 
crept out again^ and gathered a considerable quantity 
of last yearns -< dried leaves, took them in my ragged 



40 

apron into my house, piled them upon my earth floor, 
and throwing myself down upon them carelessly, felt 
a momentary sensation of delightful luxury and ease from 
the yielding softness of my rustic, leafy bed, which 
seemed to bring hack to my senses, associations of my 
former home. 

Hungry as I was, I yielded to weariness and despair 
of procuring any thing to satisfy my longings, resigned 
myself to all the solitary horrors of my dreadful fate, 
gradually suffered the oppressive drowsiness which stole 
over my brain, and weighed down my eyelids and my 
senses, to steep me into forget fulness, and ere many 
minutes had elapsed and before it was quite dark, I was 
dead for the time to all my calamities. 

But with sleep came dreams. Oh ! that awful night ! 
Never can my brain cease to bear the impressions of the 
visionary terrors and joys together, which mingled al- 
ternately among my absent perceptions, and signalised 
that night, as one of remarkable alternations of misery 
and happiness, although the whole was but the airy 
fabric of imagination, and the effect of jaded nerves upon 
slumbering consciousness. 

I dreamed that I was again with my companions, as 
I had been a few days previous, but a short distance 
from home, on the edge of the woods, picking berries 
together in peace and happiness and childish mutual 
sport and satisfaction, while young surprise of one or 
another of the little merry party was awakened by the 
discovery of some well loaded bush, and the loud shout 
brought every one of our number to the near presence 



41 

of the happy discoverer, and to the immediate vicinity 
of the ripe berries thus found so fortunately. We were 
talking and laughing, telling stories and occasionally 
quarrelling as on the day of my being lost, when all of 
a sudden an enormous wolf leaped among us from be- 
hind an adjoining rock. We screamed and ran, and I 
saw the animal seize a little girl of our party in its 
mouth, put its huge paws upon her side, and tear away 
the flesh with its jaws piecemeal by piecemeal, amid 
her frightful, dying, vain shrieks of terror and agony for 
relief. 

The wolf growled and munched the sweet morsel, 
while my dear Uttle companion's blood dripped down 
from the monster's jaws and covered its breast, legs, 
and the ground beneath. 

Then, all was still. 

I had been all the while transfixed to the spot, unable 
to stir a limb or feature, until the animal having finish- 
ed feasting upon my little playmate's mangled body, 
looked around with horrid ferocity in its eye, perceived 
me, and at one jump, fastened its long teeth into the 
flesh of my throat. 

At that moment, in the greatest terror, I awoke. 

I was trembling violently, cold sweat trickled down 
all over my person, and my hair seemed to stand oh end 
with horror. 

I started from my repose, half awake and half asleep, 
tottered through weakness and agitation occasioned by 
the sudden fright, which my terrific dream had brought 

4 



42 

upon me, staggered sideways and falling against the 
rock, bruised my left knee and shoulder considerably. 

This shock fully restored me to my senses. I was 
chilled to the heart when the full consciousness of my 
desolate situation came upon my senses thus at mid- 
night ; and for a time almost bereft of reason, I felt 
along the ground for my bed of leaves, shuddered as I 
again laid down upon it, and it was a long time before 
my fear and excitement, from the awakening at mid- 
night and realizing fully my condition, permitted me 
again to sleep. 

But welcome sleep once more came to my relief, and 
again I was disturbed by frightful visions. 

Methought I was at home. It was evening. It was 
bedtime for the children, and preparations were made 
for putting us to sleep. 

The cheerful voices of my father and mother were 
heard conversing about the business of the preceding 
day. 

My mother came up to me, took me upon her lap, and 
began to undress me. 

A loud sound was suddenly heard, like the discharge 
y, of a hundred cannons. The floor, furniture, and whole 
house, rocked to and fro, like a vessel upon the ocean's 
stormy billows. 

A loud crash broke around, and instantly the floor 
sunk beneath our feet, 

Down, down, down we went. We continued de- 
scending with the rapidity of the wind. 

At last, I was alone, and still falling, falling. My 



43 

descent was at length arrested by a deep body of water, 
on the surface of which I laid floating. 

A flash of lightning revealed to me a limitless sea 
around me on every side, with heaving, mountain waves, 
rushing with me upon them, now into the very sky, 
anon sinking me into the deepest abysses, as if the earth's 
dark cavernous centre, yawned to engulf me alive. 

Then, all was dark again. Another flash and burst 
of thunder at the same instant, and by the gleam, I 
saw a huge black and grim visaged giant, mounted up- 
on a dragon of [immense proportions and hideous shape, 
galloping toward me, over half sunken rocks. 

The giant bent down over me, took me up in one 
hand, and bringing his arm back as if to exert himself 
to the utmost, hurled me from him into the air. 

With a velocity which caused my motion to be at- 
tended with a sound in my ears like the rushing of ten 
thousand whirlwinds, my body continued to fly upward, 
from the power of the giant's throw, while I saw the 
stars shooting past me like swift meteors. 

My upward career grew less swift, then slower and 
slower, then ceased, and from thence I fell back again 
toward the sea, saw the giant once more, who himself 
as lofty as a mountain, stretched out his arm, caught 
me just as I was about to touch the water, and carrying 
me toward his mouth, I looked down his wide opened 
throat, like an immense dark cavern, and just as his 
tremendous jaws were closing upon me, the hideous 
dragon's feet slipped from under its body, and giant and 
dragon both, tumbled into the sea and were drowned. 



44 

I fell into the water, but managed after much strug- 
gling with the surf, to scramble up on the rock where 
the giant and dragon had been. 

A little boat then appeared in the distance. It plough- 
ed Its way up, over, and down the rolling mountain bil- 
lows, neared the spot where I stood trembling with wet, 
cold and fright, passed safely through the tumultuous 
*vakt and almost overwhelming spray, and then I per- 
ceived that it was rowed by my father, and that my 
mother bearing a flaming torch in her hand was by his 
side, cheering him on in his difficult task. 

The boat touched the rock. They both leaped upon 
it from the boat, seized me, took me into the slender 
barque with them, and then my father rowed away 
again, and said we soon should be safe home. 

My mother covered me with kisses, I wept upon her 
bosom, and in the exquisite thrilling of my joy, which 
filled my whole heart and every vein, I awoke. 

It was still dark night. I felt my bed of leaves under 
me. I was yet sobbing and crying, which I had actually 
been doing in my sleep, in accordance with my vision, 
but, alas ! no father and mother were there. 

It was not long before I again slept. Another dream 
came upon me. 

Ajethought I was asleep at home, in the same bed 
as, and close beside my beloved mother. 

I fancied that I had awakened, that the house was 
on fire, that a party of incendiary and naked Indians all 
painted, to make their appearance the more terrible, 



45 

rushed in upon us, through the crackling flames and 
volumes of suflbcating smoke. 

I saw my parents prostrated by their ruthless toma- 
hawks. 

After murdering the whole family, they then attack- 
ed me. 

An arrow from a tall warrior at a distance pierced my 
eye, and entered my brain. 

At that instant, I awoke in reality, and perceived my- 
self to be in my own rudely constructed hut, upon the 
pallet of leaves, in the lone forest, and it was yet dark. 

It was in vain that I essayed to sleep again, during 
the rest of that long and awful night. And yet, I dared 
not stir from my leafy couch to go out, for fear of rep- 
tiles, snakes, wild beasts, or savages, and I even won- 
dered why they did not assail me as I lay, undefended 
as I was against any assaults of that kind. 

For several hours, as it seemed to my impatient spirit, 
I tossed in feverish wakefulness, and when at length, 
the first faint glimmerings of dawn, began to paint up 
the rough interior of my abode to my aching eyes, in 
the colours of reality and morning light — the side of the 
rock, the leafy and branched roof, the weeds growing 
upon my floor, around my bed, and the leaves under 
me, I felt the throbbing within my veins, of the hot 
blood, which now began to riot in all the rage of a vio- 
lent fever. 

My mouth was dry, my lips parched, my throat husky^ 
and I anticipated a very speedy termination to all my 

dreadful sufferings and to my life at once. 

' 4* 



46 

There I should die. No kind friend or relative to 
soothe my dying pillow with tender assiduities and soft 
sympathy, and that pillow a pile of withered leaves 
from the wild forest. 

Oh, God ! M^ reason left me to the delirium of a 
brain fever, which was now scorching me within. 

How long I remained in that state of delirium, 
whether an hour, or twenty-four hours, I never could 
ascertain to my own satisfaction. 

But as it was morning when my senses returned, I 
must either have recovered in about an hour or less, or 
else I continued in that state, through the afternoon of 
the day on which I was seized and all night, and even un- 
til late on the next morning, which in thaA case would 
make it the fifth day of my exile. 

If I was only delirious for about an hour or two, then 
the morning of biy recovery from the fever, would be 
only the fourth day of my exile. 

As to the precise day of the week, I had entirely for- 
gotten, either then amid my pressing necessities, or 
shortly subsequent, and from being so very young, 
whether it was on a Monday, or Tuesday, that I was 
lost, although I was certain that it was not on the Sab- 
bath. 

A violent perspiration was upon me, whea my deli- 
rium ceased, and my fever was entirely gone, although 
I felt very weak. 

As I had passed three days and three nights certainly, 
and perhaps four with so little nourishment, the dread- 
ful gnawings of a ravenous hunger were at my vitahj^;^; 




47 

and I felt as if I could have devoured ihe most loatb- 
Bome reptile. 

For the purpose of procuring food, I endeavoured to 
rise from my pallet of leaves, but perceived that I was 
utterly unable to do bo, owing to my exceeding feeble- 
After awhile, I again attempted to crawl, and by 
slow movements, I managed to get, upon my hands and 
knees, to the entrance of my place of shelter, and soon 
also to the outside. 

Being now out in the open air, I looked around me 
and above me, but could perceive nothing but the ground 
and sky, the bushes and trees, rough rocks and my own 
little, solitary, ragged, emaciated and wounded person. 

Like a worm of the earth, I crept along the ground, 
or rather like a quadruped, for I made out to keep up 
on my hands and knees at least. 

I disregarded the soiling of my clothes. In fact I 
eagerly groped in muddy pools for some chance morsel, 
which could be used by me for food. 

But nought eatable was there. 

After crawling about for many hours, as the reader 
must remember that my hut was out of sight of the 
place, where I had so almost fatally indulged to excess, 
in eatingkof berries, 1 came to some more bushes which 
boie berries, and almost famished as I was, forgetting 
all my former sufierings, which arose from too greedy a 
devouringof that species of ;iliiijfiil, 1 iiulli.il ilown the 
bushes in such a way that I wiildw^uid J'y reaching 
up, plij|iU)^jttiiU|^MM|^fl^^by^Liii u>ie 



48 

band, with the other tore the fruit from them, ripe atid 
unripe, briars and leaves, and impatiently as before, 
crammed them indiscriminately into my mouth, mashing 
the ripe ones against my lips and teeth as I pushed them 
hurriedly in, making the juice trickle down from my 
chin over my clothes, and scratching again my face and 
neck, hands and arms with the sharp thorns. 

Not having been able to find many berries, I was by 
that fortunate necessity, prevented this time, from gorg- 
ing myself to sickness, as I did at tiie previous feast of 
that article of food. 

The sky began to grow dark, and at first I deemed 
that night was approaching, but upon looking up be- 
tween the boughs of the trees through the thick foliage, 
I perceived that the darkness was occasioned by thick- 
ening clouds, which foreboded a heavy storm. 

Fearful of being again wetted to the skin, as had 
been the case with me in a former rain, I rallied my 
strength to make the best of my way homeward. Yes, 
I felt as if I had something like a home, to take refuge 
in from a storm. 

I had gained strength since I had been out, partly 
perhaps from the regenerating principles of the human 
system which had now acted for some hours, since the 
cessation of my fever, and partly from the berries which 
I had eaten, but which seemed only to have aggravated 
the pangs of my hunger, instead of alleviating them. 

After much exertion I succeeded in reaching my hum- 
ble and novel abode. 

The thunder had already began to mutter in deep, 



49 

distant tones, and just as I entered my dwelling, a 
sharp flash of lightning dazzled and bewildered me. 

I felt a dreadful stunning shock. A loud crash of 
the artillery of the skies burst around my devoted head, 
like the sound of a great explosion of gunpowder, and I 
laid for a considerable time, trembling and suffering 
under numbing sensations, such as I had never before 
experienced. 

After a few minutes from the time that the effect of 
the lightning's stroke had partially subsided, I perceived 
that my dwelling was in flames. 

A tree had been struck, which conveyed the electric 
spark to my roof. 

I sprang up, with swiftly recovered energy, rushed 
out of the hut, and while the torrents of rain poured 
down upon the burning sticks, which constituted my 
dwelling, beheld it still smoking. 

And is even my poor,Uttle hut to be destroyed, thought 
I, so soon 1 

Only to have given me a wretched shelter as it ap- 
pears to me, for one dreary night. 

Can I not have a roof to dwell under, though so hum- 
ble ] Are all the elements combined in their cruel and 
and relentless sport, to doom to destruction, such an in- 
nocent, helpless, little girl as I am ? 

Is there no mercy for me in heaven? Must I be 
driven houseless, solitary, starving, into a premature 
grave 1 

All these ideas in my own crude and inexperienced 
intellect, flashed instantaneously through my mind. 



50 

At that moment, I remembered the incident in the 
narrative of the celebrated Robinson Crusoe, which with 
the greatest delight imaginable to my childish faculties, 
I had heard my elder brother read to me, of his procuring 
fire, from the lightning's stroke upon a tree. 

Designing then, to profit by the present opportunity, 
the thought suggested itself to me, to avail myself of it 
in a like manner with Robinson, as I also was destitute 
like him, although not upon a remote island, amid a 
vast ocean. 

When I first saw the conflagration, I mourne^ for the 
circumstance, and ungratefully ventured in my own 
ignorance to impeach the mercy and goodness of God, 
and was horroui* struck at the idea lest my frail tene- 
ment might fall a prey to the devouring element. 

Then the sudden and heavy shower was extinguish- 
ing it, just as the happy thought of Robinson Crusoe's 
expedient came into my mind, and I wished the fire not 
to be entirely )in out. 

So perverse is human nature. 

Gladly did I perceive, that a chance remained to get 
a spark. 

I eagerly threw other branches and leaves upon the 
still kindled embers of the roof of my most magnificent 
edifice, and by that reason hoped to keep the fire alive 
and secure, from the full and fatally extinguishing ef- 
fects of the descending waters. 

A few minutes ago, I considered the kindling of the 
flames, as an event to be much dreaded. 

Now, by the intrusion of an idea into my mind the 



51 

whole current of my thoughts was turned into another 
channel, and I deemed the preservation of fire, even 
though involving the loss of all my household gods, 
house and furniture, (not much to boast of,) as the 
highest object of my temporary ambition. 

What a treasure would fire be to me, amid the hor- 
rours of such a dreary waste. 

Cooking, in case of my finding subjects worth the 
cooking, winter, protection from wild beasts by making 
a large fire, all came into my mind with a startling 
eflfect. 

What a companion in my solitude would a cheerful 
blaze be ! 

I could look upon flashing flames, the spiral volumes 
of curling smoke, as they should ascend beautifully 
through the foliage and above the tree tops, the spark- 
ling embers, the falling fagots, listen to the crackling 
of the fuel, and enjoy a new and perpetually recurring 
pleasure, amid all the dreariness of my exile. 

A house, if annihilated, I could rebuild from other 
materials, easily to be got. 

But the cheerful and serviceable element of fire, I 
knew not how to gain, unless I availed myself instantly 
of the present glorious opportunity. 

From this ripe reasoning, it will be perceived, that 
the mercy of heaven imbued me, by means of my urg- 
ent necessities, with almost unexampled imderstanding, 
at so early an age. 

To preserve fire, I instantly gathered all the leaves 
which I could, broke off pieces of the bushes, pulled up 



62 

grass and roots, and threw them quickly upon the pile, 
which began to accumulate considerably. 

As yet, I was uncertain as to the success of my ex- 
periment, for only smothered smoke seemed to come 
from the heap. 

The smoke came up less and less, and at last totally 
disappeared. 

Thus ended all my new and pleasing anticipations. 

In the wild agony of my despair, I flung myself 
upon the earth, and bitterly bemoaned my renewed 
desolateness of condition, and cruel fate. 

I had been elevated in my highly raised expectations, 
to the very pinnacle of newly awakened desires, only 
to be dashed, the more forcibly down the deeper, into 
the very lowest and darkest abyss of vexation and 
sorrow. 

My house is destroyed, thought I, by the ruthless 
flames ; and when I hoped by feeding the burning em- 
bers, to turn evil into good, by gaining the valuable 
principle of fire from nay disaster, and the destruction of 
my dwelling, I am again under the suffering of a griev- 
ous disappointment, and lose both my residence and the 
new and great benefits, which I fancied I should have 
reaped from its destruction. 

While I lay thus bewailing my hapless state, I per- 
ceived a spark snap out of the ruins. 

In a single spring, I was beside the spot, whence the 
spark was emitted. 

Another, and another spark, successively shot out. 



63 

A thick, black smoke, slowly curled up, and in a few 
^oment^ a bright blaze ascended. 

I fairly danced and sung, and laughed and wept, 
with true, and most exquisite joy. 

Only look at poor little me, dear reader, whom I hope 
by this time, I may address as my sympathizing friend, 
look at me in that wilderness, overcome with pleasure, 
.at the prospective entire demolition of that tenement, 
whose building up, if that term might be used appro- 
priately to such a slight structure, I had so anxiously 
icxerted myself in, as the very last hope of existence. 

Again I sought sticks and leaves. As the flames 
progressed, I heaped on fuel, and soon had the thrilling 
satisfaction to witness a large roaring bonfire. 

The long columns of ascending smoke, broke away 
.aloft, into heavy masses of clouds, careering through 
the intervals between the topmost branches of the lofti- 
.est hickory trees^ which closely surrounded my consum- 
ing dwelling, and the brilliant and gigantic volumes of 
.jQame, lashed the air this way and that, now whirling 
down and around, now shooting up in a great variety of 
pyramidical and forky forms, then suddenly breaking 
dff short. 

Anon, the fagots fell, and black smoke and myriads 
of sparks and cinders, were flung forth in every direc- 
)tion, while the surrounding breezes of heaven, seemed 
to be playing with additional liveliness, as they swept 
around among the flames, smoke and ashes, and ap- 
peared to be increasing in strength, with the increasing 
heat. 

5. 



54 

I put upon the fire as large branches as I could con- 
trive to break olSf the bushes and low trees, and as I 
could find upon the ground, and drag to the spot. 

The spectacle of a huge bonfire, affords a bustling 
excitement in the beholder's bosom, even though the 
spectator may be in such a situation, less destitute thstn 
mine, as to be indifferent to every other consideration/ 
save that of the mere beauty of thef exhibition. 

But to me, then, whose wholfe soul and hopes of mere 
existence itself, were wrapped Up iri it, the reader mciy* 
possibly conjecture, how ddightful the turbulent ele- 
ment looked to me, on that intiportant occasion; 

The light of tUe fire began to' increase iii iritehsky,^ 
evening apprdached.' 

While I was vacantly casting my stare arotifricf the 
forest, I saw the beams of its efiulgence reflected frotn 
an object, which looked to me like a turtle's shell. 

I ran to'it, and perceived that it was, indeed, one of 
the little wood turtles, which are common and numer- 
ous in all parts of that cfountry, ahd which kind I had 
frequently seen. 

To think of it for food, >t<T seize it, and convey it to 
my furnace like fireside, was but the work of a mo- 
ment. 

I put it close to the hot embers, threw stones updn 
the top of it, and watched with eagerness the progress 
of my first cuUnary experiment at my hermitage* 

The idea of cruelty, in roasting thus the creature 
alive, did not enter into my mind, so eager was I for 
food^ aad I have since learned that this article of eatiiig. 



55 

is in as barbarous a manner cooked in kitchens, being 
thrown alive into a pot over a fire, and thus boiled to 
death. 

So very hungry was I, in consequence of ray long 
fasting for four or five days and nights, from all provision 
but berries and fruit, and a half a dozen small bird's 
eggs, that my wbde sense and attentijn were absorbed, 
in the anticipated turtle feast. 

As soon as I deemed the meat to be sufficiently pre- 
pared by the continued a^d excessive heat to which its 
immediate contact with the hot stones, subjected it, I 
took a large stick, with it pushed away the stores, and 
pulled out, my truly original and unic[ue supner of roast- 
ed turtle. 

I could not wait for tiie savoury dish to cool, for its 
steams u|K)n my sense of s nell, awakened in my sys- 
tem the keenest desire to fall to and spare not. 

Accordingly, to facii tate the abstraction of heat from 
my victuals, I procured water from an adjacent brook, 
in my two hands which I held close together, and flung 
the pure and cooling element upon the turtle. I had to 
go five or 9ix .tinges to the brcHjk and back with water 
and dash it thus qpon the cookery^ before it jv^^ suffi- 
ciently deprived of its heat, to jepatlc me to touch ijt. 

At length it was in my hands, my teeth fastene 1 
themselves into the meat, for the shell cracked all into 
pieces, and th x w^s a turtle feast in verity. Salt and 
other seasoning, were j^ntirely unnecessary. There u 
no saucd like a heajrty appetite, and such sauce I pos- 
sessed in abundance, a^d to sparp to my neighbQurs^ 



66 

not the neighbours whom I had, but those whom f 
wished that I had. 

I made a hearty meal, and nothing could have been 
more savoury or better flavoured. I did not either ex- 
perience any alloy of pam, from overeating. It seemed 
as if Providence was willing to spare me for awhile, 
from any more sickness than I had recently endured, 
for surely I had enough of it, when I gormandized the 
berries. 

While I was eating, a thought came into my head, 
which might perhaps appear to be almost too precocious 
a one, for such a child as I was, but nevertheless, I did 
entertain the idea then. 

It was this, that if my parents and neighbours had 
made proper search for me in the forest, I should cer- 
tainly have been found by them ere this. 

Here I had been for several days and nights, within 
a very few miles, most assuredly, of my former home. 

Would the people I had wandered frorp, not have 
scoured the forest, for at least five or ten miles, if not 
more, and some of them have continued their enter- 
prise daily and nightly, and if no otherwise, at least, by 
shouting aloud, have attracted my attention. 

On not being able to discover me alive, they would 
at least have hoped to have had the melancholy satis- 
faction of perceiving my dead body, and thus have ter- 
minated their anxious and dreadful suspense. ^ 

Perchance my companions might have reached their 
homes in safety, and by their stories of the wolf, induced 
my parents to conclude that I had been devoured by 



«7 

the animal, and for that reasop, il^ijf p:i^ejiiqn2 to 9ttk 
me, might h^ve been gradually relaxed, and finally re- 
linquished in total despair of ever seeing any thing of 
me affain. 

Alas ! a future incident, in this my eventful history, 
wjll pxplain to the astonished reader, as it did to me, but 
^00 clearly, what a shocking cause it was, that pre- 
yented my being properly sought for by my former 






CHAPTER IV. 

Time and the hour run through the roughest day. 

SPAKSPEARC. 

It was now dark night, although n^y bpnfire dis- 
pelled the shades of that periqd, fpf |,he ^Qt time since 
I had been in this wilderness, ai]d hftving fiiiished my 
turtle supper, } longed for repos|$. 

But I had no hquse. I}owever, necessity is the 
mother of invention, apd I concluc|fsd that night, that 
my bed chamber should be, what is justly denominated 
" all out dopre.'^ 

Having no other resource, I was fain to put up with 

puch indifferent lodging;s. Not the first time either by 

any means, for I had not forgotten my exposure by 

night, to the first storm which overtook roe in these 

woods. 

5% 



58 

And at present, I was not quite so badly off as then, 
for now I had a good rousing fire, which served me as 
a kind of succedaneum for roof and side walls. It im- 
parted to the surrounding air a grateful and protecting 
warmth. 

Its flashing motions, its light, its heat, its lively noise, 
continually cheered my spirits and seemed to be compa-* 
ny to me. I loved my wood fire, as if it was a dear, hu- 
man companion. I looked at its sparklings, and they 
seemed to me to be the bright encouraging smiles of a 
friond. 

Before I went to rest therefore, I took pretty good 
care, not to permit my fire to become dormant. 

I gathered all the branches which I could, for fuel to 
feed the blaze, and when I thus provided this friend 
with its supper, its necessary sustenance, and having by 
that labour tired myself almost to death, I laid me down 
on a pile of leaves, not far from the cheerful flames, and 
was soon wrapped in as profound a slumber, as ever 
blessed the eyehds of a mortal. 

How singular a thing it is for us to reflect upon, that 
the greatest imaginary evils, often turn out in the end, 
to be our greatest good. The lightning struck my 
dwelling, and desolated it with a conflagration. The 
upshot of the whole matter was, that I had a good fire 
to go to sleep by. 

No dreams disturbed that night's repose, (n^y fifth or 
sixth in the woods,) or, if they did, no traces of them 
remained upon my memory in the morning. 

Awakening suddenly, and realizing my present coiv- 



59 

diiion, after a momentary influence of past associations, 
which still to this day of my writing, hang around my 
senses at first awakening in the mornings, I started up, 
to examine into the state of my fire place. 

A great heap of ashes lay where my house had stood, 
and with the one burnt end of each of them, partly in 
the ashes, and the other extremity unbumed of each, 
outside the heap, were numerous fagots, only burned 
in two, and then gradually extinguished. 
• Anxious and fearful of being deprived of the precious, 
the invaluable treasure, which I had so recently, at so 
much cost and sacrifice acquired, I carefully raked 
among the remains of the bonfire, and to my inexpressi- 
ble delight, discovered a goodly number of red, glow- 
ing, hot coals, as pleasant to see, as those of the most 
particular housewife, who providently buries her embers 
in hot ashes over night, to preserve them ready for use, 
to rekindle a fire with them on the succeeding morning. 

My sound sleep during the last niglit, added to the 
nourishing supper of hot roasted turtle, had so much re- 
freshed me, that my strength was nearly as great as 
ever it had been in any part of my life before. 

I fitirred about with much activity. I collected 
branches, twigs, and leaves, put them upon my coals, 
and- without andiron, tongs or shovel, made a good, roar- 
ing, morning fire. 

I had never known before, and young as I was, proba- 
bly never having thought so deeply, that a human be- 
ing could have possibly endured all that I had endured 
and live — all my exposure through nearly a week's in- 



50 

terval, to the opep air at night, slp^jring upon the ground, 
my thorough wettings, niy famine, and then gluttony, 
the raging fever and no physician, nurse or medicine. 
And I, a Uttle child, a tendisr girl, accustomed to all the 
kind assiduities of loving and b^Ioyed parents ^nd 
friends. 

It is probably, hardly necessary to mention, that on 
going to bed each night, in this solitude, I did not un-; 
dress my&elf, for I had no bed covering to put over me. 
My clothes had never been off me since the last night 
that I had plfspt sweetly under the roof of my now^ ¥)(( 
doubt afflicted pareptp, (a^ I then thought^ and oh ! 
would that it ha^ bjeen po worse !) i9;!Ecept upon that 
paoniing, when ^fter my lying out in the rain, I had di^ 
vested myself of my wet garments, in order to hang 
them up on the surrounding bushes to dry. Nor had I, 
or my garments received any other washing, than what 
the rain directly from Heaven had given. 

Accordingly, feeUng a strong desire to purify myself, 
I withdrew from my fireside to the neighbouring brook, 
which I have already mentioned, where I us^ the pro- 
cess of ablution with a great deal of satisfaction. 

After I had washed ipy clothes weU, dried my torn 
garments by my fire, and then reinvested myself with 
them, I felt considerably invigorated, and my habili- 
ments were completely cleansed from the soiled state 
they had been in, although the convenience of soap was 
wanting, and although they had nQt the neatness of apu 
pearanpe, wl>ich ironing gives, 
What wfw I to do n§xt ? W^t^ my whole life to be 



6t 

passed in this dreary waste 1 I began to feel again 
quite disconsolate, and being neither hungry, nor sleepy, 
nor under any particular necessity for exertion at that 
moment, I grew more and more desponding. 

At last, I wept and wrung my little hands in agony 
of soul. I knelt and prayed to God for relief. After 
much weeping, and my heart ahnost bursting, the 
poignancy of my grief began to be assuaged, and the 
burden upon my spirits to feel considerably lightened. 

Night would of course return in a few hours, and I 
did not relish the prospect of sleeping out of d Jors again, 
although by ever so comfortable a fire. 

So I concluded, to resume my former occupation of 
an architect. 



CHAPTER V. 

A OLORlbUS DISCOTKKT — ^AT LEAST TO AN EXILE IN A DESERT. 

As I did not know of any place, better adapted to a 
reifidence, than the eligible spot beside a rock, which I 
had chosen for the first location of my dwelling, I con- 
cluded to re-occupy it for that purpose. 

First to preserve my fire, I removed some burning 
brands to a hollow in the earth, about fifty yards distant 
from the site of my former dwelling. 

Afterwards, I carried thither all the portions of the 
burning fuel, which I could conveniently do, without 



62 

scorching myliauds or x^Iothes, and then, brought watoT 
from the brook, and threw it upon the reiocidins of ray 
first fire. 

Next I cleared away all the rubbish, and put long 
sticks from the top of tbe rock to the ground, as previ- 
ously, covered them jover .with bark, small twigs and 
leaves, and closed up both ends in a similar manner, 
only leaving, as I did before, (without making a second 
time the faux pas of shutting myself out,) a small space 
for entrance and exit from my humble abode, and then 
retreated a short distance, to survey my new structure. 

A small bush was near the spot where I stood, and 
thoughtlessly I took hold of it, in an endeavour U) {null 
it up by the roots. 

I pulled, and pulled, and twisted it one .way, and then 
twisted it another, having been excited to the exertion* 
bv the resistance of its tenacious hold to its native soil. 
Such is human nature, its corporal powers put into vig- 
orous exercise by bafiSed vanity, or more trivial mo^- 
tives. 

Vexed by the difficulty of getting it up, I tugged and 
strained with all my little might, till the tender skin of 
the palms of my hands were red and made chafed wilh 
the strain on them, but all would not answer. 

The bush remained obdurate, and tired of ite obstina- 
cy, I gave it up, and was going away, when all at once, 
a fit of vexation at my disappointment came over me, 
and I exclaimed aloud, in a childish pet, '' hang it^ I 
triU pull up the blame thing.'' 

To work again I went, and at the first yigorous effort. 



6S 

Up it came, r falling with it clenched in' my band^, flat 
upon my back, my heels up ; by the suddenness and suc- 
cess of the jerk, and with the roots, up came also several 
brightly glittering gold and silver coins, which fell 
dround my head upon the ground, ringing together in 
dweet music, and also in their company a rusty table 
knife. 

Surprised, delighted, and then, in fact, fairly fright- 
ened too, I jumped up in a single bound upon my feet, 
and ran off a little distance, not knowing, in girlish iil- 
experience'and siiperVtitiou's fears,'tbat some giant en- 
chanter, dwarf or faiiry, might not also arise from itte 
cavity, made by the abstracted bush and roots, and bear 
me away through the air, mounted upon the back of 
^me huge grif&n with wings and talons, or upon a 
hideous dragon, emitting from its mouth and nostrils, 
flames and stifling clouds of siilphurous smoke, and im- 
prison roe within a haunted castle, in a wild region t)f 
genii, and other supernaturals. 

After Ihadruna littkwiays further, I looked back 
in the greatest terror, as my fears kept increasing with 
the lapse of time,*whose every moment called' up" from 
tbefeVtile soil of my fancy some' new image of dread, 
and phantom of horrid front. 

Bui upon ray reverted eye, came no spectacle of any 
giant enchanter, hideous dwarf, oi fiery dragon in pur- 
suit of poor little me. 

Cautiously and slowly, out of awakened curiosity, on 
tiptoe, and lest I should by the noise of my steps, 



64 

arouse some slumbering demon of darkness and evil, I 
stole back to the spot. 

I had often heard, among my former companions, 
when at home with my friends, of bloody pirates, bury- 
ing in- the lone forest their hoarded treasures, which 
their ruthless violence had amassed from plundered ves- 
sels at sea, and from the robbed persons of their mur- 
dered victims, the fated vessel, and hapless slaughtered 
crew, all being sunk together in the bosom of the great 
deep. 

That after these monsters of inhumanity had put 
their money and other ill-gotten booty into the earth, 
they slew some helpless weeping captive of their law- 
lessness, permitted amid the general slaughter to live 
till now, reserved for this dreadful destiny ; and then 
flung the assassinated, dead body upon the heap of 
wealth, supposing amid the wild conceptions and strange 
inconsistencies of their half reckless infidelity, and half 
abject submission to all the gloomiest and most fanatical 
of ancient superstitions, that the flitting ghost of the 
victim murdered and buried in the earth, crimsoned 
with its own gore, would protect the treasure from in- 
truders, by scaring off all casual wayfarers passing by 
the haunted spot. 

That, then, they covered the spoils, murdered body, 
and bloody stains with clean earth, strewing leaves over 
it to give the place the same appearance with the neigh- 
bouring ground, thus preventing any object from ex- 
hibiting itself to awaken suspicion in the traveller, that 
the soil had been at all disturbed. 



65 

That to the practised eye of the infamous proprietor, 
by force of the valuables, some easily recognised mark 
was made, some stroke upon the rock in the vicinityj or 
notch in a near tree, to enable ttie pirates to resort with 
facility, and on the spur of emergency, to the treasures 
in times of great need, when in the course of their peril- 
ous adventures and voyages throughout the world, 
chance should bring them into this quarter, and want 
should absolutely compel them to this resource for re- 
cruiting their exhausted finances, and thus continuing 
their indulgence in their usual abandonment to a profli- 
gate licentiousness of life, pregnant with the physical 
torments of disease, and the mental agonies of bitter re- 
morse for past, and blackest of crimes* 

Now also, the fabulous legends and marvellous tales, 
with which prolix old age had in my infancy amused 
my little attentive ears, came thronging in wild confu- 
sion and terrible forebodings, upon my bewildered brain. 

I started at every rustling of a leaf, or flight of a bird, 
as if it was some spectre, or personification of somewhat 
among the terrible subjects of wonder, with which my 
recollections were filled. 

However, girlish curiosity being too resistless for fear 
to combat it effectually, and gathering courage from the 
usual dead silence, which succeeded each stir of the 
foliage and passage of a bird, I ventured to touch a 
piece of the money. 

Then I looked about me again affrighted. Nothing 
occurring to justify my apprehensions, I picked up the 
gold coinage. 

6 



66 

Inexperienced in its value, I could only conjecture at 
the time, from the little knowledge which I had about 
money, that the pieces were very valuable. 

They were all large and heavy. 

I laid the table knife aside, put the coins with it; and 
proceeded to examine further, into the place of deposite. 

To my utter amazement, I discovered more coin. 
There appeared to have been a wooden box there, in 
which the money had been enclosed, which had almost 
entirely rotted away, yet still leaving portions, sufficient 
to induce such a conclusion. 

Of course, I was enabled from that circumstance, to 
decide, almost to a certainty, that the money had been 
there, for a very long time. 

The knife was very much rusted. 

As I dug and dug, I continued to come across more 
pieces of gold and silver, until, to my childish eyes, the 
sum seemed infinite, and to comprise all the specie money 
of the world. 

I continued to throw each piece upon the already 
piled up heap which had been disentombed, and listen^ 
ed with maiden delight to the clinking of the metal as 
it fell. 

I dug and found money, and threw out gold after 
gold, and silver after silver into several heaps, imtil I 
was really fatigued with the exercise, and sated with 
the sight of coin heaps accumulating beside other coin 
heaps. 

Mingled with money, I soon came to other articles. 
As I continued to dig further down, and laterally each 



67 

way, not far from the surface of the soil, I found instru- 
ments of agriculture and domestic use, which altered 
the train of my ideas in accounting for the presence of 
the articles. 

Pirates could not have buried the plough which I 
perceived there, although they might have done the 
axe ; at least, it was not likely, that such an instrument 
as the former, would have been taken care of by them, 
in any way whatever. 

Pirates^ to be sure, plough the briny billows of the 
stormy sea, but it is with bows and keel of a sh^, or 
other nautical vessel. 

Here also, were shovels, hoes^ spades, ox-chains, and 
a great variety of agricultural implements. 

Remains of tubs and baskets, the iron hoops of the 
former yet whole, but much rusted, some crockery ware, 
cooking utensils, iron pots and kettles, andirons, tongs, 
table knives and forks, a scythe, several sickles, small 
jack knives, a plane, a saw, hammer and nails, tinder 
bo:ses, flints, steel, matches, and enough things to make 
up a catalogue volume. 

While excavating the earth for further gains, and ex- 
amining into the shape and natqre of more and more 
new and pleasing discoveries, I reflected much upon the 
cause of this remarkable deposite. 

In fact, how these articles came there, I could not at 
the time conjecture. But subsequent meditations years 
afterwards, induced me to suppose, that some civiliaed 
families lived hereabouts ; had been disturbed by incur- 
sions of Indians, or other warfare ; had buried these 



68 

their treasures for security during some apprehended at- 
tack of the enemy ; had been killed x)t carried away 
captive ; and that the remains of the settlement must 
be in the vicinity. 

They were, however, of no use to me, in my present 
circumstances. I wds too small a child to be able to 
avail myself of the assistance of the tools, im^dements, 
or cooking utensils, and, as to the money, I could neither 
eat it, nor drink it, nor find any shop to spend it in, 
nor purchase with it either food, clothing, or any matter 
which would be serviceable to me. 

I had now been alone in the woods for several nights, 
I had eaten nothing but berries, fruit, eggs, and turtle. 
I had a house and fire. I had a variety of household 
articles and farming implements, and finally a plenty 
of money, whose gold and silver heaps on the ground 
around me, I looked upon and sighed to think, that the 
whole of the rich store, I would have freely.parted with 
at the time, (so much did I hanker after my native 
home,) in exchange for one, single slice of my mother's 
well remembered and formerly much cherished, good 
bread and butter. 

Imagine a picture of me, accompanying this part of 
my narrative, representing me sitting upon the ground, 
by my solitary and wild looking fireside, garments rag- 
ged and soiled, newly discovered treasures scattered 
near, and close by is seen the excavation whence they 
were taken. 

• Fatigued with working in the earth, and digging up 
money and other valuables, and believing that I could, 






69 

at any future time continue at my pleasure, to prosecute 
my fuither researches into the cavity, and explorations 
of its hidden, and magnificent mysteries, I resolved to 
leave the afiair for the present, just as it was. 

As I had a little leisure, (my house being rebuilt,) I 
strolled around the forest, and found myself strong 
enough to travel about and endure again considerable 
fatigue. As I passed along among the trees, I noticed 
acorns and nuts lying among the bushes. On looking 
up, I beheld branches loaded with hickory nuts. On 
opening those upon the ground, I perceived that they 
were not quite ripe, but on passing further, I found two 
or three which were of last year's crop, and still sound. 
I cracked them upon a rock with a small stone, and 
their flavour was delicious. Aha ! thought I, here is 
a provision against the barrenness of winter. I was 
used at home to gather nuts in the autumn, and store 
them away for winter's use, and I now contrasted my 
present feelings with those I entertained in former days 
at home, of a winter's evening, at my father's cheerful, 
warm fire-side, as we were telling entertaining stories, 
and laughing at merry jokes, cracking the nuts, quaff'- 
ing the cider, Ustening to the whistUng of the wind, 
and the beating of the snow storm without, mingled 
with whose doleful dreary sounds, were within, the soft 
lispings of the children's innocence and happy frolick- 
someness. 

Oh ! such recollections made my present desolation, 
seem, ah ! how desolate ! 

Ruminating thus, amid these past associations, I 

6* 



70 

resolved to put to the purpose of supporting my exiet- 
ence, what was once merely my amusement. 

I determined to look up the several kinds of nut trees 
and bushes, viz. hickory, butternut, black walnut, hazle, 
chestnut, &c. 

I pleased my fancy with the idea, that when ripe, I 
would gather them, dry them upon the ground in the 
sun, then put them into my hut in a pile, and when 
the frost and snow should chill the scene, I would bask 
in the warmth of my winter fire, and feast upon those 
carefully preserved delicacies. 

On a very particular and patient search for a couple 
of hours, throughout a considerable extent of the forest, 
taking especial caution to mark my devious wanderings, 
by strewing bushes along the ground as I proceeded, I 
discovered some chestnut trees and hazle nut bushes, to- 
gether with other species of berries, besides those I had 
previously seen. 

In some places, which wfetjd^uite open to the sun, 
owing to trees being prostrated by wind and age, and 
others burned, probably by some conflagration from 
lightning or strolling parties of Indians, I perceived, 
scattered here and there, the vines on the ground, of that 
fine flavoured spontaneous bounty of nature, the deli- 
cate strawberry. 

In swamps, almost inaccessible, except to steps as 
desperate as mine, I also perceived considerable quanti- 
ties of cranberries, and picked a few of them, which I 
afterwards carried to my hut, but which were rather too 



71 

acid, to eat much of, in their uncooked and unsweeten- 
ed state. 

These numerous, and highly gratifying discoveries, 
tended to put away entirely, my fears of famine, and I 
began to contemplate the future with less dread, and 
even to look prospectively upon the lonely hours of the 
rest of my life, which I might pass in this dreary soli- 
tude, as likely to be cheered up with plenty of those 
several species of excellent and nourishing substances 
for aliment, which I have mentioned. 

I also knew, that I could dry such kind of berries and 
fruit, as I might come across in my rambles, and in their 
dry state, keep them through the long winter, as a stand- 
ing relish among the other dishes. 

At last I concluded to return home, and forthwith 
began to retrace my steps. On my returning path, and 
when near home, a still greater treat awaited me, and 
was close at hand, which enabled me to bring my just 
found cranberries into play as victuals, in the shape of 
that pleasing condiment — stewed cranberries. 

I heard the humming of a bee near to me, and look- 
ing around, to my high delight, and exceedingly great 
surprise, reviving past and pleasing associations of my 
dear father's garden and his bee-hives, I beheld a whole 
swarm, flying in and out of a large, decayed and hol- 
low tree, which was lying prostrated upon the ground, 
where it had probably been hurled by a passing sudden 
gust or whirlwind. 

The thought of delicious honey flashed upon my 
mind, and I resolved that I would attempt to procure 



72 

some of that dainty, from the custody of its industrious 
owners and manufacturers. 

But how to accomplish the difficult task, was the 
puzzle. 

If I should venture near the nest, I should be stung, 
and perhaps in the eyes too, and thus be totally blinded, 
in case of which affliction, I should be prevented from 
looking about the neighbourhood for nuts^ berries, &c., 
and in that awful predicament, I should inevitably, in 
a very few days, perish amid all the painful heorrors of 
starvation. 

Therefore, it behoved me to be cautious and wary. 

At Icingth, the idea suggested itself, of hot water, to 
throw upon them just as they were in a body at the 
mouth of the hive, if there was any method for me to 
get close enough to it. 

Then I recollected, that among the cooking utensils, 
which I bad found in the hole, was a large iron pot. 

"Just the very thing itself," I exclaimed in ecstasy, 
" the very thing !'* 

Forthwith, I accelerated my steps towards my house. 

I had traced my way so far back, and still continued 
to do so with much ease, by means of the strewed 
bushes, with which I had marked my wanderings. 

I had ran at first, with great rapidity towards my hum- 
ble home. 

Then becoming fatigued, I would throw myself at 
ftill length upon the ground. 

But speedily again, I bounded upon my feet, at one 
time galloping, as children are wont to do in play ; 



73 

then jumping, skipping and hopping, then walking fast, 
next slow, occasionally sitting upon a rock, and again 
running with all the swiftness of my powers, till at last, 
the smoke of my fire curling up, among the lofty 
branches of the trees, broke pleasingly upon my view. 



CHAPTER VI. 

Culinary operations. 

It was impossible that I could move the large iron 
pot at all, which was still remaining in the excavation, 
whither I had repaired, in the vain hope of being ena- 
bled to avail myself of it, as a vessel to boil water in. 

Accordingly, I scraped the earth out of it, as well as 
I could with my little hands. 

I then took one of the articles of crockery, being a 
large bowl, and filling it at the brook, conveyed water 
thus to the iron pot. 

I suppose, that I went back and forth as much as 
twenty times, if not more, in the course of that necessa- 
ry operation, from the brook to the pot, before I had 
thrown enough water into the latter, to satisfy myself, 
with having got a sufficiency into it, for my murderous 
purpose — murderous to the heedless bees, but life pre- 
serving to me, their intended black and foul assassin. 

Next, I built a fire under it, and soon to my inexpres- 



rf 



74 

sible delight, beheld my first boiling operations in the 
wilderness. 

Among the cfockeryj was also a pitcher. Dipping 
with that utensil a quantity of boiling water from the 
pot, I ran as fast as I could with it to the natural bee- 
hive, and dashed its scalding contents upon the busy 
little inmates. 

Without my suffering any compunction, or feelings of 
remorse for my cruelty, I had the unmingled satisfac- 
tion to witness the slc^ughter of all the guards over the 
hive. A great number of them fell dead upon the ground, 
and I proceeded to examine the part of the fallen tree, 
whence the bees had come. 

With much ease,^ I picked away the rotten bark and 
wood, when within wa& revealed to my ravishing sight, 
a goodly store of most tempting sweets. There must 
have been as much as half a pint of honey. 

I was too impatient to refrain, until I should reach 
home^ from tasting the rich food, and even until I could 
transfer it to the pitcher, but dashing my hand into the 
hive, I greedily grasped some of its luscious contents^ 
which, (doubly incited by the fragrance,) I eagerly car-* 
ried to my mouth. 

Never before, had I eaten honey which relisihed so 
ei^cellently as this did. Fearful, however, of overloading 
my gtomach, and having been just previously relieved 
from the fiercest pangs of hunger, by the turtle which I 
had partaken of, and therefore not urged by such an 
uncontrollable appetite as I had been, when I came 
across the berries, which constituted my first meal in 



the desert, I restrained myself in some degree, and 
loaded my pitcher with the invaluable freight. 

I carried it home, resolving to keep the honey by me, 
as a sort of bonne bouche^ to indulge myself with it sparv 
ingly, and from time to time, in order not to be without 
such a well flavoured dessert i9 what more substantial 
provisions I might be enabled to have, consisting of tur- 
tle, eggs, or even fish if I could procure any. 

After I had partaken of a little more honey^ my 
thoughts began to revert to my home, not my present 
forest home, but that lost, dear> and well remembered 
one of my parents, brethreu and sisters. 

I looked around upon the scene of my pre^nt resi- 
dence musingly, in a calm, contemplative mood, and 
whatever met my pensive eye in any direction they hap- 
pened to take, tinged the hues of all my recollections, 
even the brightest among them, with a shade of sadness 
and regret 

" Fpnd iqeipory brings the light of other days around mc ; 
The smiles, tlio tears of childhood's years, 
The Words of love then spoken, 
The eyes that shone ^" 

Yet there was a mysterious something in all this 
savageness of wilderness— •-the solitude, the deep silence 
of the umbrageous woods, the absence of all personal 
restraints, forms and ceremonies ; my own sovereign 
will and whim, fancy and capricious suggestings from 
one moment to another, being the only law and guide 



>» 76 

to regulate my conduct, which inspired me with entire- 
ly new and strange feelings. 

It seemed that my mind expanded, and that the blood 
coursed with greater energy through my veins. 

At home, I had been accustomed to a thousand clogs 
upon my freedom of t]i>ught and action, from which, 
here in the woods, alone, and unobserved, I was entire- 
ly exempt. 

I have, since I have been grown up and educated, 
read of hermits, who are said to have their existence 
protracted to more than a century, in the enjoyment of 
good health and spirits, and vigour also, by the peace- 
ful, tranquil and holy quiet, which blesses the hours of 
a free, careless though solitary hermit, in some humble, 
rurally sequestered retreat, free from the noise and bus- 
tle, tumult and turmoil, corroding cares and diseases of 
refined society. 

But that idea, of course did not enter my mind when 
I was a child in the woods. 

Then I only reflected upon my changed condition, 
from restraint to perfect freedom. My thoughts were 
all upon the little, childish incidents, which touched 
my former conduct. 

At home, when I used to be about to enter my fa- 
ther's door, after being on the soft naked earth, I was 
obliged to be so very particular, stopping in my career 
of rapid jumping and headlong running, to scrape the 
earth off from the soles of my little shoes, and if any 
tsmall portion adhered to them, and was brought thus 
upon the carpet, I was chid for it, and sometimes whip- 



77 

ped. My dress too, must always be arranged just ex- 
actly so, my hair combed, and at precisely nine o'clock 
every morning, whether I was in the proper humour or 
not, I was compelled to take up a book, and my spelling 
tasks were long and tedious. 

But now, unchained and rel^i^ed from fixed times 
and tasks, I roved free as the air I breathed, my own 
mistress, unrebuked, undictated to by elders, and look- 
ing on all objects around me as exclusively my own, to 
use as I please, without aught to gainsay me, or stay 
my supreme will. 

Almost losing, sometimes the usual distinctions of my 
race, in the ordinary gait and bearing of a human being, 
and approximating to the heedlessness of the beasts of 
the field, I groped about along the surface of the ground 
for food to sustain life. Often was I upon my hands 
and knees in doing so. 

When I had victuals, I ate with a hearty relish, ow- 
ing to my robust and vigorous health, and voracious ap- 
petite, caused by so much exposure in the open air, and 
toils in wandering about in search of victuals. 

No stated hours found me at my regular meals wheth- 
er hungry or not, as had formerly been the case, when 
I had been nice and capricious about this dish or about 
that one. I ate without plate, knife, fork, cup, saucer^ 
dish, spoon, chair to sit on, or table to put my dishes on. 
The grassy turf, covered with the blossoms of fragrant 
wild flowers, was my table and table cloth. My fingers 
served instead of knife, fork or spoon. Sometimes, a 
large flat, clean rock was ray dining table, upon one 

"7 



78 

side of which, I either sat, or reclined upon my elbow 
while eating, and took plenty of time to finish my soli- 
tary meals. 

During my meditations on home, just alluded to, I 
bethought me of all these substitutes for furniture, and 
in the midst of my solemn solitary meditations, I laugh- 
ed occasionally, as some odd conceit struck my mind. 

I wished that I could procure seeds of such vegetables 
as I had been used to eat at home, to sow now in the 
bosom of the soil of the wilderness, upon which I had 
been cast a lonely exile. 

A single seed of a turnip, so insignificant in appear- 
ance, or slip of a root of any esculent production, would 
have been a treasure to me — and yet thought I, looking 
around by the excavation whence I had dug out such 
a vanety of articles and riches — all these heaps of gold 
and silver lying there, all mine own, only encumber the 
ground, and cannot procure me for the gratification of 
my palate, not so much as a boiled onion, turnip or beet. 
My destitution of my usual fare was so extreme, that I 
longed for the very scrapings of the raw potato skins, 
which my mother used to have thrown into the swill 
barrel for the swine provender. Oh ! thought I, if I 
had but one single, little piece of potato paring, I would 
plant it, and raise a crop, and in time I might be well 
stocked with that nutritious, and universally esteemed 
vegetable. 

My memory ran over all the once (in happier times,) 
disregarded settings forth of the dinner-table — the nice 
yellow, soft well cooked, smoking hot turnips, the car- 



79 

rots, cabbage, beets, &c., and I would have given my 
piles of gold and silver — the whole of the treasure with- 
out discount, for a single raw potato or turnip, to put 
into the earth, whose womb would soon teem with a 
growing source of future good to me, in my present 
desolate and destitute condition. 

But it was vain to wish. I was only exempted from 
all restraints upon my liberty, to suffer from the loneli- 
ness, which arises from a long deprivation of the plea- 
sures of human society, and from a prospective depriva- 
tion of ail the joys of friendship for life. 

Out of very restlessness, I seized my newly found axe, 
and began chopping the little trees in different direc- 
tions, and cutting into the ground, which operations, I 
perceived worked off some of the rust, and made the 
iron smoother. 

Much of my time was occupied with my bonfire. It 
required almost constant attendance. I feared so much 
to lose it, that I could hardly be satisfied at any time, 
as to the sufficiency of the quantity of fuel that was 
heaped upon it, and was almost continually, when I 
was near it, adding a stick or a handful of leaves to it. 

My beloved fire was to me a friend and an excite- 
ment. 

I loved it, dearly loved it, almost worshipped it, (I have 
since heard of the ancient sect of Fire Worshippers, and 
wondered not at their adoration,) as a kind protector ; 
during the damp, chill night, in its genial light and 
warmth, in its lively crackling and smoking and flaming, 



80 

it seemed to me as if I recognized something almost 
hmnan. 

Ob ! my fire, my fire — at this distant day of my pen- 
ning these reminiscences, at my age of womanhood — 
how the glowing of thy embers still lives fresh in my 
memory. 

Never can I forget my childish feelings regarding the 
bonfire at that eventful period of my exile— only a week 
in time, but years in feeling, exiled from the ordinary 
privileges of other mortals. 

I would walk around my fire, gaze into the midst of 
the flames, and among the burning brands, and glowing 
hickory coals. I would poke it with a stick, and start 
back delighted, to witness the sudden evolution of sparks, 
flames, and volumes of thick curling smoke. 

I would run from it m girlish glee, and look at the 
reflection of its beams upon the surrounding foliage, 
which at night, caused an appearance peculiarly grand 
and beautiful. 

My fire, seemed to be the only thing save myself, 
about me, in this vast wide wilderness, embued with 
activity like my own youthful maiden energies. 

I ran around it, skipped through its edges, leaped ovei 
a flame, laid down on the ground with my face towards 
it, peeped among its variety of brightness, which seena^ 
ed to my childish fancy, to be smiles of encouragement 
and hope of better days, bent in kindness upon poor lit- 
tle me. 

I talked to it, asked it if it loved me. I listened in- 
tently to the snapping and roaring of its fierce fiames in 



81 

the open air amid the solitude of the forest, and me- 
thought in my wild'fancy, it replied, "yes, my dear little 
girl. I love you my sweet child, and will warm you 
in winter, will drive away wild beasts of prey every 
dark, stormy night, I will protect you from harm, I will 
cheer up your spirits by my liveliness and frolicksome- 
ness. I will chase darkness away from the lonely scene 
of your exile — ^you shall not be a poor exile, all alone — 
I will be with you, will be your kind friend and protec- 
tor, and my shining at night and my warmth in cold, 
frosty winter shall sustain you, and make you comforta- 
ble and happy.'* 

Thus, my young and fervid imagination, no compa- 
nion's converse to check the current of my thoughts, 
made me conjecture, that my fire replied to my innocent 
questions. 

And it did then and long afterward console me at 
midnight, warm me in winter, cheer and rally me amid 
gloom and despondency, and I did love it, and as I said 
aZmo5^ worship. 

Even I used to fling fragrant herbs and flowers upon 
it — ^because it then imparted such aromatic odours 
around, that it seemed thus to express the gratification 
of its desires. 

I would ask it in my foolishness, what I should get 
for it, that it liked. " Thou art," added I, " my only 
friend, thou cannot get aught but what I give thee, and 
I wish thou couldst tell me what thou dost most long 
for, and I will bring it to thee, if I have to go miles and 
miles for it, or even perform a week's journey to mako 



82 

thee as hwppy as thy presence and smiles make me. 
Oh ! my fire — ^my only, only friend in this gloomy des- 
ert, I love thee, with all the heart and soul of a young 
girl — I love thee — I love thee.** 

Thus I was wont to apostrophise it. Surely the in- 
dulgent and sympathising reader will pardon my prolixi- 
ty of narration about my bonfire, for it gave me felicity, 
when I owned no other friend but God, and I must to 
ease my feelings, express to it my gratitude. Thus it 
is seen, that a kind Providence will not forget any one 
of its human objeots, needing its care, even away off in 
a wild woods, where Uttle else but savage beasts of prey, 
prowl to destroy. 

My axe enabled me to procure a greater quantity of 
fuel, than I had previously possessed. Besides, almost 
all the dry leaves in the immediate vicinity of my fire, I 
had gathered up and burned, and I had broken off all 
the twigs near me, which my childish feebleness would 
a&dw of, and picked up all the loose sticks about them. 
Consequently my axe was quite a godsend, and came 
just in time to save me from being necessitated to get 
fuel at a distance, which distance, would always be in- 
creasing, as the space around my fire, which I should 
deprive of leaves and twigs, would thus always be get- 
ting greater and greater. My chopping weapon ena- 
ble^ me by dint of much laboiu*, to cut off larger limbs 
which hung low, and I even began to think of the work 
of severing some considerably sized trees, near their 
roots — a thought, idle and silly enough in such a mere 
child as I was. 



8S 

As I struck the axe against a tree, the sound echoed 
through the stiUness of the forest, and reminded me of 
wild stories which I had heard of woodcutters' adven- 
tures. Some mysterious chord of my association of ideas 
was touched, and a whole train of reminiscences, again 
lived within my consciousness. 

Hope now brightened the scene of my labours. I 
toiled with great vigour, as the thoughts of my increas- 
ing prosperity flitted across my mind. 

Indeed, the hardy exercise and the recent pleasing 
events of finding the honey and the iron implements, 
getting fire, &c., amid all my loneliness, caused me, at 
this time, to enjoy, comparatively speaking, a state of 
happiness. 

I was complete mistress, sole lady and sovereign of 
every object and place within my presence. 

I had also the priceless blessings of health and unre- 
strained liberty. 



CHAPTER VII. 

I am monarch of all I smrey, « 

My right there is none to dispute. 

COWPBIU 

A SURPRISE. 



Tes, I felt that I was free. 

I could, and did play all sorts of fantastic and antic 
tricks — shouting aloud any word, expression, or sen- 



84 

tence, that first happened at any moment to pop into 
my head, just from the girlish pleasure of hearing the 
sound echoed from the hill and the hollow, through the 
depths of the forest, and among the rocks and dark 
glens. 

I was almost the whole time outdoors. The world 
(said I,) is my apartment. 

Its roof or ceiling is the ever changeful, blue expanse 
of the Heavens, the passing clouds, and the green fo- 
liage of the grove. 

My floor was uneven enough. There was scarcely a 
level spot about it. 

It was hill and dale, rock and ravine. 

Yet, the pleasing variety of the irregularities of the 
surface was truly grateful to the eye. 

Sunny slopes, small mounds, long ascents more or 
less steep, the view of the hills from low ground, and 
the prospect over many vallies and eminences from a 
precipice or any great height, all were extremely grati- 
fying ta the sense of sight. 

I ran, jumped, threw stones from on high into the brook 
or pond beneath, and listened with childish satisfaction to 
the exciting sounds of the rushing descent of a large 
stone, as it broke its way through bush and brier, 
bounded over rock and rising ground, till, having ran 
its career to the glassy surface of a deep part of the 
brook or pond beneath, it plunged in with a splash, and 
sunk with a moan like a living creature ; and the crash- 
ing reports of the concussions, in its run down the hill. 



85 

echoed along the woods and reverberated upon the ear, 
with the tones of real music. 

As I had been, certainly for a considerable time, per- 
haps one or two days, from the advent of my fever one 
morning, under the influence of delirium, it was impos- 
sible for me to know, as I have stated, whether in my 
diurnal calculations I had missed a day or not. 

Therefore, I resolved to devote one stated day in the 
week to the worship of Qod, although in a temple not 
made with hands, and although it might not be the 
first or the last day of the week. I trusted that my 
Heavenly Father would accept the devotions of an in- 
nocent, little child's guileless heart, tendered in meek 
piety and holy aspirations, and the firmest confidence in 
the Most High. 

I probably had not passed more than five or six days 
in this place, and the day I had adopted for my religi- 
ous exercises, I denominated my worship day. 

During this short interval, I had grown in strength 
of body and mind, more than I was ever conscious be- 
fore, of having done in months. 

I actually began already to be accustomed, and even 
reconciled to this lone and independent mode of living. 

It had a peculiar charm about it, which really was 
becoming a powerful fascination upon my feelings. 

It was upon the day, tiiat I am just treating of, and 
on which I had gained the honey, that I was startled 
by a new occurrence, and what was still worse, a new 
and imminent danger. 

As yet, I had not perceived signs of any living thing. 



8« 

that was both wild and resistlessly destructive, except 
(he large snake, which had frightened me, when I was 
lying upon* the moss, and the wolf which had first 
driven me into the forest, and away from my play- 
mates. 

But this day, something new happened, which gave 
me considerable uneasiness. 

I was sitting upon the ground, and leaning a little 
back and towards my right side, supporting myself with 
my arm, one hand being upon the ground, the fingers 
turned behind, my face upwards, and my eye pensively 
fixed upon a cloud, which, sailing slowly and almost 
imperceptibly along the wide ocean of the heavens, re- 
sembled to my ardent fancy, although in colossal pro- 
portions, the features of my own, lost, dearly beloved 
father, when a rustling sound among the bushes on the 
left side of me, induced me to turn quickly around. 

Guess, dear reader, what was my consternation, when 
I beheld a huge, black bear, not far off, making its way, 
directly towards poor little me, its glaring and threaten- 
ing eyeballs, (perhaps this was only the conjecture of my 
terrified imagination,) actually fixed upon my petrified 
form, and its long strides bringing the unwieldy looking 
beast, every moment closer and closer to me. 

Involuntarily, I screamed loudly with horror, and 
my girlish, high tones, pierced the glocmy silence of 
the far off woods, and rang through the air above. 

I have since, often heard it stated, that the human 
voice will frighten off animals of prey. 

In this instance, whether the bear did not see me or 



■vf 



8T 

whether it was the scream or not, which did the busi- 
ness, I cannot undertake to say, but the dreadful crea- 
ture, past almost heedlessly, yet as I thought, rather 
shy than otherwise, so near to me, that its movements 
pushed the bushes against my limbs, and then it pur- 
sued its path briskly from me on the other side of me, 
until it was lost to my view, in the distant, deep, natural 
bowers of the forest. 

My full strung energies, and much wrought-up ex- 
citement were kept at their height by my unthinking 
impulses, until the naturally ferocious creature was gone 
entirely, and then suddenly, I fell into such a cold 
sweat and trembling, that I could scarcely refrain from 
falling prostrate, even by partly maintaining a forward, 
bent position, with my hands folded in my lap. 

" Good God !" mentally ejaculated I, (although no 
doubt I thought then in less matured language than I 
now write,) " what companions am I^ doomed to dwell 
with 1 Perhaps the next bear that passes me, may be 
less timid, or more hungry, and my little, tender limbs, 
will become a prey to its cannibal rapacity, and I shall 
be devoured alive. 

I clasped my hands, and then taking a sudden thought 
upon my dangerous exposure in the spot where I was, I 
sought what I deemed was a safer one, near the fire. 

The reason why I was not a second time assailed with 
a wolf in the woods, I have since been told might be 
assigned to the fact, said to be well ascertained and set- 
tled in the science of natural history, that wolves general- 
ly avoid forests, and prefer passing through open grounds. 



88 

How this matter may be, I do not know, but my con- 
viction is also to that effect 

My pregnant memory furnished me with tales, which I 
had often heard recounted, of the neighbourhood in which 
I had lived, of the protecting influence of fire, and I con- 
cluded that if a number of fires were kindled, at a short 
distance from esu^h other, entirely around my hut, that 
within the area formed by the line of circumference of the 
fires, there would be greater safety for me, than as my 
hut was at present circumstanced. 

No sooner had this cunning expedient suggested it- 
self to my fertile, although girlish brain, than I resolved 
to reduce it to a practical test. 

I forthwith commenced the operation, and taking 
burning brands to twenty equidistant spots from my 
humble abode, in so many different directions of the 
compass, forming a complete circle of fires, I piled 
brushwood, leaves, and pieces of limbs of trees and 
bushes which I had cut, upon each. 

It was a very laborious task, and threatened to be 
quite a serious addition to my hourly toils and cares, in 
the constantly keeping alive of so many fires* 

But nevertheless, self-preservation is the first law of 
nature ; and urgent necessity will superinduce the 
greatest and most patiently continued exertions. 

Therefore, being a good deal apprehensive, lest the 
frightful, black bear, which I had just seen, might re- 
turn, and that, Heaven only knew how soon, I stirred 
about with the greatest activity, and lost no time I as- 
sure thee dear reader, to enkindle into a prosperous^ 



89 

thriving condition, every one of the new, protecting bon- 
fires ; which were to be my fortification and guards, to 
prevent the assaults of wild beasts of prey. 

When I saw every one of my beloved fires well un- 
der way, I commenced preparing a stock of wood, to be 
bandy for immediate use, as my occasions for it would 
now be much more numerous and constant. 

With my small hands, I would strike my axe feebly, 
into the knotty bark of a sturdy oak, chop away a little, 
which of course could not be enough to have much ef- 
fect towards attaining the object which I had in view, 
then as an auxiliary to the chopping part of the busi- 
ness, I would kindle a fire at the foot of the tree, on 
the side which I had cut. 

By dint of burning and chopping, and chopping and 
burning, (although it was the thoroughgoing process 
of my good friend and able assistant the fire, which 
was justly entitled to the chief credit of having efiected 
the destruction of the tree for me,) I contrived to get 
this sturdy oak felled. 

With what rapturously unfeigned delight I witnessed 
the fall of this lordly prince of the forest, as it came 
rushing and crashing down among the limbs of its 
neighbours, breaking through the foliage its resistless 
path, tearing away leaves and branches, until it struck 
the solid earth with a thundering sound, which echoed 
and re-echoed along and through the woods, until echo 
died in the distance ; and at the same time, frightened 
up from their disturbed nests in the immediate vicinity, 
hundreds of birds, which twittered and screamed and 

8 



90 

whirled througli the air, sailing around and around the 
scene of the unusual occurrence, and fearing again to 
return to their young, or to their accustomed haunts. 

When the oak was quietly extended upon the now 
silent plain, I leaped upon it, in all the boisterous joy- 
ousness of my maiden vigor, and shouted to the full 
force of my lungs, victory ! victory ! and then listened 
with childish satisfaction to the echo of my triumphant 
cries, which returned upon my ear in the sounds of the 
terminating letters ictory ! ktory ! 

There had been a number of birds nests, and one of 
wasps, in the top branches of the tree felled ; and sev- 
eral young unfledged birds were thrown out helpless 
upon the ground, by the sudden fall, and strong concus- 
sion of the tree. 

Tenant of the wild woods as I was, I had already be- 
come part savage. 

At least I had grown to be cruel. For I mercilessly 
possessed myself, of the helpless brood, with the sole 
desire of converting them into sources of gratification to 
my canine appetite. 

Had I been at home with my parents as formerly^* 
enjoying a variety and plenty of wholesome victuals to 
eat, I should only have thought of nursing the scarce- 
feathered fledgings, until they became clothed with 
brilliant plumage, were grown into a pleasing symme- 
try of shape and size, and had learned to warble in at- 
tractive notes, within the limits of a cage. 

But now, my main thoughts were upon food. 

My improved digestion, continual expoiipre to the 



91 

open air, constant and laborious exercise, freedom from 
restraint, my shouting and jinnping, chopping and run- 
mfig',' kept »p- within my system a ravenous and never 
satisfied longing after something to fill my stomach, al- 
though I was almost incessantly partaking of berries 
and nuts. 

I soon placed one of my small iron pots upon the coals, 
filled it with water from the brook adjacent, and scarce- 
ly half opening and cleaning the birds or divesting 
them of the down upon their backs, in my cannibal 
eagerness for food, I threw my innocent, little victims 
in alive, to stew. 

Indeed, I missed potatoes, carrots^ onions, pepper and 
salt, but notwithstanding the total lack of any other 
seasoning but craving hanger, I found my dish to be 
exceedingly palatable, and devoured it quite contented- 
ly, perfectly willing to excuse the appliances of better 
prepared condiments. ^ 

In this place, as well a§ any other, it is apropos for 
me to mention, that now shocked at my progress into a 
heathenish life, I commenced the laudable practice of 
saying grace before and after a regular meal, as I con- 
sidered any meal which took time in culinary prepara- 
tions to be somewhat more regular than snatching at 
the bushes and on the ground as I strolled about, for 
berries and nuts. 

Thus I redeemed myself from total lapse into bar- 
barism, and seemed to be gaining ground back towards 
civilization again, in some respects, even if it might be . 
asserted thaf I had lost it in others. 



93 

This state of existence, was for a period, by do means 
moDotoQous to me, as I have previously remarked. 

The very sensation of more vigorous health, and more 
elastic spirits which I enjoyed, which was my riches in 
the wilderness, was to me, like a new and better exist- 
ence, than my former one with my parents ; and ex- 
cept as to the want of human society, I was compara- 
tively happy. 

I resolved to take a complete survey, upon some lei- 
sure occasion, when, having my fires all well agoing, I 
could spare time to make an excursion, in difierent di- 
rections from my residence. 

And who knows, (mused I,) what discoveries I may 
make. 

Then, the thoughts of my parents and friends, even 
of any human society whatever, came over my mind, 
as if the enticing nymph, hope, whispered into my trans- 
ported ear, th a I should froon see somebody, hear once 
more a fellow being's voice, and enjoy the enlivening 
presence again of an associate of my own species. 

Thel:uure occasion came, or rather I should say, 
that I considered it as having come, as soon as I had 
conceived the project, and accordingly resolved to avail 
myself of it. 

But before I went upon the excursion, being some- 
what drowsy, although it was yet early in the day, I 
laid myself down upon the soft moss, in the shade, to 
take a nap, for I slept as well as ate, drank, sung and 
danced, whenever the whim seized me, whether it was 
morning, noon, or night. 



93 

I was not a slave to fixed hours, but was guided by 
pressing circumstances only. 

I had no tasks, but such as my own impulses from 
moment to moment suggested to me. 

And if I wanted to sleep, or even to lie down, I did 
not wait for an opportunity until I had reached a bed- 
chamber. 

In whatever part of the woods, I happened to be at 
the moment, when I felt tired or drowsy, I laid myself 
down upon a rock, or a bank of moss, in the sunshine, 
or under the shade of a hill, tree or rock, as the weather 
happened to be warm or cool, and the shade and sun- 
shine respectively the most appropriate to the air. 

I frequently attempted to conjecture what was going 
on at my dear native and lamented home. 

Sometimes, I concluded that as a matter of course, 
my parents had made vain searches for me. 

At other times, I imagined a party of my relations 
and neighbors, scouring the woods in all directions, by 
day and by night, day after day, and night after night ; 
and often I fancied of an evening that I even caught 
the glimpse of a distant torch, borne by some of the 
searchers after me. 

Running towards the intensely attractive object of my 
hopes, I would miss it suddenly, and then deem it to 
have been naught but the occasional glow of the firefly, 
or the lightning, or else the deceitful will-o'-the-wisp, or 
jack-o'-lantern, which beguiles heedless mortals into 
bogs and quagmires, pursuing its whimsical movements 
through all their devious wanderings, 

8* 



94 

Welly I laid me down in the snnBhine, slept for about 
half an hour, tasted a little honey, then sat out in search 
of adventures, intending not to remain long away from 
my fires, whose preservation as I have stated, required 
such a frequent supply of fuel. 

I may mention here, as appropriately as elsewhere, 
that when I had finished the erection of my first hut, 
which the lightning from heaven had afterwards so 
disastrously to me struck and consumed, I bethought 
me that I was not likely soon to acquire another pair of' 
shoes and stockings, that I would use my utmost en- 
deavors to preserve the only pair which I at that time 
possessed, as long as it was possible in the very nature 
of things to do so. 

Accordingly, for that purpose, I divested myself of 
them, laid them carefully aside in one comer of my lit- 
tle domicile, and only made use of them, when I went 
to any considerable distance, and on which occasions of 
course, I was obliged to encounter briars and thorns, 
which would lacerate the skin of my feet if left naked. 

And as I had cleared the ground in the near vicinity 
of my abode, pretty freely from encumbering bushes, 
from scattered fragments of trees, and from other annoy- 
ances to the tenderness of my feet, I had gone there- 
abouts barefooted. 

But as I was about to undertake somewhat of a con- 
siderable lengthened excursion, I re-invested my feet 
with the much cherished only pair of shoes and stock- 
ings, that I ever expected to be possessed ol 

The wound, which it may be remembered I had re- 



9« 

ceived in my forehead in my severe fall a few days pre- 
vious to this time, was now so much healed, that it 
scarcely troubled me at all. 

Trusting in God, therefore for protection against the 
wild beasts, I departed upon my visit to the neighbcHr- 
hood of my lonely and humble residence, having in the 
latest moment of my departure heaped as much fuel 
upon my fires, as I considered would keep them well 
under way until my return. 

This was now about a week that I had passed in the 
dreary solitude. 

I walked slowly among the trees, turning around at 
every few steps of my progress to gaze at my bonfires, 
whose blaze I could perceive until I had reached a con- 
siderable distance, and whose volumes of smoke, curl* 
ing up above the trees, met my view at a still more 
remote situation. 

I also cautiously looked about me on every side, fear- 
ing beasts of prey, snakes or wild savages, and even 
more undefineable dangers, some doubtlessly the mere 
fanciful creations of my own childish brain, a race which 
ever since my infancy had haunted my own little world 
of dreams, begotten there by the heedless prattle of su- 
perstitious crones and ignorant country clowns. 

As I passed along through the woods, the carrion 
crow was occasionally startled from its lofty nest on some 
high tree by my approach, and flying upwards and 
wheeling around and around the neighborhood of its 
young, uttering its usual piercing screams, it frightened 
up others of its own species, who joining together in 



96 

their shrill cries and their circular paths of progress 
through the air high above, alarmed me much for my 
perro. al safety. 

If I had been a little older than I was, I should have 
known that their noise and movemeats, were indicative 
of their own fear of human presence, and not of their 
ferocious intentions of hostility to me, that it was their 
own apprehended dangers to their young brood, which 
caused their incessant activity, and that it was their 
keen sense of smell, which informed them, that a human 
being was near them. 

As I continued my perambulations, I broke off branches 
of bushes, and strewed them along on each side of me, in 
order to mark my course, that by following back the 
space between the two lines of strewed bushes, I could 
know to a certainty, that I should then be returning to 
my humble abode and m)^fires, in exactly the same way 
that had journeyed from them. 

I had progressed quite far, without perceiving any 
very remarkable variety in the appearance of the forest* 

On a general view, it would seem to be hill and valley, 
rock and swamp, ridge and rivulet, and not any exten- 
sive grounds free from trees and bushes. 

Occasionally, I gathered berries of different kinds and 
nuts of last year's dropping, and ate them. 

On some elevations, where there was mostly rock, I 
found occasionally a wild plum tree and the black mul- 
berry, and in the rich soils of low open places, as weU 
as uplands, « the delicious pawpaw, a large, pulpy and 
luscious fruit. 



97 

Often while I was seated on the edge of a rock, crack- 
ing shells with a loose stone, the sound of which echoed 
through these primeval solitudes, the half-whistling, 
half-creaking and incessantly continued notes of the 
lively squirrel, would suddenly break upon my ear with 
startling effect, and my eyes would be attracted from my 
occupation of cracking shells, to the high point in the 
tree, whence the squirrels' notes issued. 

I could see the little bustling animal, with its bushy 
tail curled gracefully over its back, moving briskly about, 
around and around the body of the tree, and on and un- 
der the branches, apparently in the greatest terror ima- 
ginable, all the time sending forth its piercing, incessant 
cries which seemed to fill all the surrounding air with 
the shrill sound. 

However, to avoid being tedious to my readers, suiBce 
it to say» that after I proceeded a little further, con- 
cluding I had gone a mile or two, and fearing to stray 
too far from my new home, I resolved to retrace my 
steps, although I had made no discovery of any import- 
ance in the direction which I had taken, except that 
melancholy one, that there appeared to be no prospect 
of human succor. 

I first ascended a high tree by climbing, and looking 
from it in every direction, felt my very heart sink within 
me at the surrounding extensive prospect of tree tops 
after tree tops, waving their foliage to and fro, respon- 
sive alone to the breezes of heaven, which wafting on 
their bosom none of the ordinary sounds of human so- 



98 

ciety, swept over the leafy view with a lonesome influ- 
ence upon my feelings. 

Sadly and slowly, I descended the majestic trunk of 
the noble monarch of the forest, whicli had been selected 
by me for its towering height, and sorrowfully threaded 
back the way I had come. 

The marks of my pathway had been undisturbed. 
Between the lines of strewed branches, I pursued hour 
after hour, my weary and cheerless journey homeward. 

*The appearance of the surrounding scenery differed 
considerably on my returning travel, but I discovered 
that it was only because my face was turned in a di- 
rectly opposite direction from what it had been when 
going away from my abode. I now looked up hills? 
which before I had looked down from, and also down 
hills wTbich previously I had looked up to. 

Fatigued as I was, I did not reach the point, where I 
had begun to strew bushes in the morning, until even- 
ing twilight. One cause of my dilatory journey had 
been, the obstacle, which the running of several brooks 
across ray path occasioned. Unable to get over them 
by wading, without danger of drowning, for in some 
places they were quite deep and rapid, and unwilling to 
encounter such a risk, I was necessitated to perambu- 
late along the near bank of the stream, for the extent 
of several hundred yards, first one way, and then to the 
opposite one, in order to discover a practicable fording 
place. But invariably, after much perseverance, I 
would find a spot where large stones, lying at stepping 
distances from each other, and being partly out of the 



90 

water, afforded me an opportunity for picking my way 
carefully through to the further side of the rivulet, al- 
most entirely dry shod. 

I could not avoid moralizing and learning a lesson of 
wisdom, of which I often thought much afterwards, 
even at a more mature age, upon the subject of these 
natural bridges, (as they might be aptly denominated.) 
It seemed as if the bounty of Providence was to be de- 
tected, in the simple circumstance of such an accommo- 
dation. 

It is well known that in small streams every where 
there are these natural bridges, which do not however 
exhibit any appearance of art, as the stones are lying, 
promiscuously scattered, in irregular positions, now a 
little up the stream, then further down it, some close to- 
gether, others so far apart, as to render a smart leap es- 
sential to secure a passage from one to the other. 

And even in these necessities to leap, I could find 
some service. They were a pleasing variety in the ex- 
ercise which I took. 

There can be no doubt that the rising and descent of 
ground over which we walk, is useful, in bringing the 
different muscles into play, as we toil and bend forward • 
in the going up, or lean back and check ourselves in 
going down an eminence. 

It was so late in the evening when I reached my fires, 

that they began to light up brilliantly the surrounding 

scenery, with their glaring torches, in successful rivalry 

over the lingering glimmerings of the fading day. 

And when I was still at some distance from any of 



100 

the fires, imagine my surprise — my terror ! when I be- 
held, seated by one of my fires — the figure of a person ! 
The person's back was towards me. 



CHAPTER VIII. 



WONDERS REVEALED. 



This circumstance seemed to come upon me with the 
more force, as I had just previously on my way home- 
ward, been particularly ruminating upon the awful 
dreariness of my solitude. 

I never had felt before, the desolate lonesomeness of 
my condition, so powerfully, so terribly, and with such 
true and unmixed agony of the heart. 

I longed for human society. No matter^ I thought, 
whether it was a relative or a stranger, a person of my 
own age, or one quite old and infirm — the human pre- 
sence was what my very nature needed to sustain it free 
from madness. 

There had lived in the vicinity of my father's resi- 
dence, an individual who was a poor, deformed, igno- 
rant, half ideotic creature, the object of universal pity. 
He was a troublesome, idle, mischievous, drunken sot. 
In my present want of society, I would willingly have 
had this miserable wretch as a companion. Aye ! I 
would have given for his society, because he had the 
shape and a human voice, all the treasure of gold and 



101 

silver coin, which I had found hidden in the cavity. In 
fact, I believe, I should soon have become an ideot my- 
self, had not my domestic affairs suddenly undergone a 
surprising change. 

It was such a state of mind, under whose agonies I 
was suffering, just preceding my discovery of a person 
seated by my fireside, which made such a circumstance 
the more exciting. 

What was I now to do 1 

Was it an Indian, a robber, a weary and harmless 
traveller, a friend, or childlike supposed I, a spirit. 

I stood for a long time as silent and motionless as if 
the spell of an enchanter had instantaneously riveted 
me to the spot, and resolved my animal powers into un- 
breathing marble, yet leaving each feature undivested 
of its look of life, not robbing my maiden cheek or lip 
of its ruddy hue, my eye of its kindling, or my brow of 
the anxious feeling of mingled joy and terror, which was 
written upon it. 

A thinking statue, there I was, my dilated eyeballs 
fixed upon the figure, whose unexpected appearance had 
thus absorbed all my faculties, and left me the one para- 
mount feeling of mute wonder. 

At length my heart began to palpitate violently, and 
apprehensions entered my bosom, lest the new comer 
should get a glimpse of me, arid thus perchance my cer- 
tain and speedy destruction be thoughtlessly ensured. 

To avoid encountering such a danger, I stepped noise- 
lessly upon tiptoe, and with as much celerity as I dared 
use, behind the trunk of a large tree, on that side of it, 

9 



108 

which would put the tree between me and the object of 
my dread. 

Thus ensconced, I watched the person, still ccmtinu- 
ing seated, for about ten minutes. 

The figure was, judging from the dresef, one of the 
male sex, although without hat or coat. 

At the end of the ten minutes, he arose, stood erect, 
looked upward and around on every side, then walked 
slowly in a circle around the fire. 

It appeared to me, as well as my distftnce from the 
fire would allow me to ascertain, to be a boy of about 
my own size and age. 

1 was near enough to distinguish his features, when ' ^ 
the bright- blaze shone full upon them, but did not 
recognize in the squalid object before me, the lineaments 
of any countenance which I had ever previously be- 
held. 

His eyes were dim and deep sunken in his head, 
cheeks hollow and pale, lips livid, and the whole ex- 
pression of face and form was wild, emaciated, even 
deathlike and unearthly. ^ 

In my childish reasoning, I arrived at length at the 
sure conclusion that it was a ghost. 

Probably, mused I, the disturbed remains of the 
murdered victim of some midnight assassin, or bloody 
pirate — and then I connected the pale apparitionJiefor# ^ 
me, with the buried money which I had digged up, an4 
I shuddered with horror, while the very blood curdled 
in my veins. 

The boy re-seated himself upon the bare ground. 



lOS 

He began to weep bitterly. 

He wrung his little hands, as if in extreme anguish 
of soul. 

He knelt, and clasping his fingers, seemed to pray in 
silence. 

This pious ceremony on his part re-assured me. Per- 
haps, (I mentally exclaimed,) he is some helpless, little, 
lost wanderer, like myself, praying for food and shelter, 
and protection from the wild beasts of the woods, in this 
frightful solitude. 

Then the idea suggested itself 'to me, that it might 
possibly be one of my late playmates, who in escaping 
from the wolf, had strayed from his home, and was Uke 
me led by similar forlorn circumstances, to this desolate 
spot. 

But, I had seen the face. It was the face of a 
stranger. 

Alas ! that so enticing a hope to such an exile as I, 
should have been so transitory, as thus to have been 
scarcely admitted to the little world of my feelings, ere 
it was banished from it forever. 

It was as if the first, struggling beams of a welcome 
morning's dawn upon the gloomy night of my despair, 
which I hailed with ecstasy, were at once withdrawn 
from the heavens of my happiness, and nature had out 
of the usual order of events suddenly resumed her dark- 
ness, and lovely day was to be forever lost to mortals. 

Gone, the dear, delightful hope was, which I had for 
a moment so fondly cherished. 

Yet, considered I, if the lad is a lost wanderer like 



:• 



104 

myself, mutual sympathy must naturally make us 
friends, if we can only communicate with each other. 

He must be a good boy, because he prays. 

He surely will not kill me, if I venture to speak to 
him. 

I resolved to do so. 

In the meantime, his attitude of prayer was changed. 
He reseated himself upon the ground, folded his arms 
before him upon his lap, and looked wistfully into the 
fire. 

I stepped forward from behind the tree, and happen- 
ing accidentally to brush against an extended twig, 
caused a slight noise. 

The stranger boy started upon his feet and screamed 
aloud. 

His start and scream frightened me back into my for- 
mer concealment, behind the tree. 

He evidently had been alarmed by the noise which I 
had made in moving, amid the general silence other- 
wise unbroken, except by the crackling of the flames 
and fagots of my bonfire, the rustling of the winds, the 
flitting of a bird, or some other wild forest sound. 

He looked towards the spot whence the noise had 
proceeded, with his eagerly staring, although lustreless 
eyes, in which not even the apparent intensity of his 
terror could enkindle the natural sparkling of youthful 
vision in health. 

How the poor boy must have sufiered, thought I, to 
have been robbed thus of the very light of life, in those 
orbs which are always the last in mortal decay to lose 



lOS 

their bright speakings of the lingering energies of body 
and mind. 

What terrible deprivations and exhausting struggles 
for existence, does such an appearance tell but too truly 
of — if the being before me is a thing yet of warm life. 

I perceived him by advancing my face slowly yet 
sufficiently, but he did not see me, as I judged, and as 
I carefully avoided his glance by quickly withdrawing 
my head behind the tree, when his face was beginning 
to turn towards me. 

I did not again hear any motion for full fifteen or 
twenty minutes, as I did not dare to take another peep, 
lest, as was probable, he should have been still in the 
act of reconnoitering the vicinity of my person, to which 
spot the noise had attracted his attention. 

I heard him walking about, yet not venturing to move 
from the entire concealment which I was in. 

He came towards the tree where I stood, as I judged 
by the sound of his movements, then went away again, 
without having been able to see me, and even I caught 
a glimpse of his receding movements, as he appeared to 
be examining cautiouslf^ with his eyes alone, the sur- 
rounding bushes and dark places, as if he feared that 
they hid from his view some secretly impending danger. 

In a Uttle more than a half an hour, I saw him re- 
seat himself upon the ground by the fire, as if in some 
degree quieted in his alarms. He had first replenished 
the fading embers with additional fuel, which he gath- 
ered, then seating himself looked for some time into the 
fire. 

«♦ 



106 

His head bent slowly down forwards, then further 
and further, and I judged him to be dosing with drow- 
siness. 

The light and warmth of a fire is very apt to encour- 
age any inclination to sleepiness, and I hoped therefore, 
he would soon slumber. 

At last, his head fell suddenly far forward, then was 
as suddenly drawn up again, fell once more, was lifted 
up again, and he continued thus nodding, apparently 
fast asleep, as often happens with persons whosa sitting 
posture nevertheless prevents an easy repose. 

At last he gently reclined upon one elbow, and soon 
thereafter gradually sinking his whole frame towards 
the earth, stretched his limbs out at full length in the 
position of persons under such influence, as if completely 
exhausted and oblivious. 

His deep, heavy breathing, followed after a while, 
and satisfied me of his complete abandonment to bleep, 
and I deemed, that, fast locked as he was, in the arms 
of " tired nature's sweet restorer," I might safely ap- 
proach him, and examine his countenance more advan- 
tageously than I had been able to do at the distance I 
looked at it previously. 

On tiptoe, I drew near to him. I slowly came nigher 
and nigher, pausing at each step, putting my finger to 
my ear, in a natural, though involuntary motion on such, 
occasions, and listening at every pause, to assure my- 
self of the undisturbed continuance of the sleeper's 
heavy breathings, before I advanced another step. 

By such slow degrees, and with much maiden trepi- 



107 

datioD, I found myself at the side of the unconscious 
youth. 

He laid with his face to the fire. The night was now 
considerably advanced. While in the distance all was 
pitchy darkness, except the prominent trees and rocks 
touched by the flickering beams of my bonfire, the 
sleeper's features were lighted up, as if by the blaze of 
noon day. 

And I, so daring, as to be in actual contact now with 
his person. 

What an object he was when viewed closely ! Poor, 
little creature. I almost forgot my own recent sufTer- 
ings of body and mind, in imagining what his probably 
had been. 

He was little else but akin and bone. Wasted most 
likely by famine and privation^ exposure and night 
damps, to a mere living skeleton- 
How I pitied him ! 

I seated myself upon the ground by his side, at that 
dead hour of the night, in the lone and dreary wilder- 
ness, and watched over his slumbers, with a thrill of de- 
light awakened by the sound of another's breath, by the 
sight of another form than my own in this horrid waste, 
and by thoughts of my recent total solitude. 

I felt already as if I had a friend, human society, and 
an object upon which to lavish all my sex's tenderness, 
and which would call forth my human nature's every 
social sympathy. 

For several hours I continued thus watching, and 
wakeful. But at length towards morning, weariness 



108 

and the influence of night overpowered my facultiesi 
and totally unconscious of the presence of a fellow be- 
ing, I also fell into a profound repose upon the earth, 
close by the object of my recent care and solicitude. 

I awoke. It was daylight. I looked up. There 
stood the boy, eagerly contemplating my features. 

My eyes being opened, probably gave that full ex- 
pression to my countenance, which enabled him to as- 
sure himself with the more certainty who I was, for 
^* Lucy Ford !" was his instant loud exclamation. 

At the same moment, I, knowing his well remember- 
ed and once familiar voice, and recognizing in him one 
of my late playmates, " Tommy Williams, oh ! Tommy 
Williams l" I shouted and screamed, with feelings ex- 
cited to the highest possible degree. 

I threw my Uttle, sunburned arms around his neck, 
while I trembled all over, and leaned helplessly upon 
his hardier frame, entirely overpowered in all my facul- 
ties by the shock of such excessive surprise mingled with 
the very ecstasy of pleasure. 

He bent over me, kissed my cheek, and with smiles 
upon both our lips, tears of mutual heartfelt joy trickled 
from our little eyes, and mingling together bedewed our 
bosoms, which palpitated and heaved tumultuously in 
an interchange of strong sympathies. 

We laughed, we cried, we flung from each other, 

looked into each others eyes, again embraced, and acted 

more like two Uttle maniacs, than like persons of sane 

intellect. 

It was many minutes after we had so joyfully pro- 



109 

nounced each others names, before we could again ar- 
ticulate a single word. 

I found the use of my tongue the first, and oh ! how 
we did talk to each other then. 

I began to relate to him all my adventures and mis- 
chances, the story of which he every now and then in- 
terrupted, with the ejaculation of "poor Lucy, poor 
Lucy !" and also mentioning some of his own privations. 
I told him my whole week's incidents then, which I 
frequently repeated afterwards during the time that we 
were together. I dwelled longest upon such portions of 
it, as seemed to excite his particular attention, and de- 
tailing the events and my consequent feelings so minute- 
ly that I impressed them too indelibly upon my memory, 
not to be thus enabled pretty correctly to give them to 
the reader in this writing. 

Prom his account, it appeared, that on the fatal morn- 
ing, when the wolf burst in among us poor children, 
and scattered us, as I have stated in the commencement 
of my narrative, he ran into the woods and like me was 
lost. 

He had been during the whole past week subsisting 
upon berries, was generally awake during the whole of 
every night through fear, slept in the daytime upon the 
leaves on the ground, and did not even know exactly 
how many days he had been in the forest. 



110 



CHAPTER IX, 



FINE TIMES. 



What a new pleasure I now enjoyed in the presence 
of my companion. 

We talked together almost incessantly, walked hand 
and hand, ate together of berries and nuts, and searched 
with mutual enterprize for bird's eggs, honey and tur- 
tles, which by our united vigilance we were enabled 
more frequently to find, than either of us separately 
could have done. 

Side by side, childien as we were, we slept sweetly, 
with]our arms around each others necks for fear of losing 
one another in sleep, enjoying respectively a sense of 
security from the gratifying consciousness of each others 
presence. 

I had taken him to my hut as soon as I had told him 
my story, and on the succeeding day I showed him the 
excavation where I had found the money and other 
articles. 

I looked into his face with childish delight, to witness 
the pleasing surprises depicted upon it, when I revealed 
to him each locality of hill or hollow, tree or rock, hut 
or stream, which had become endeared to me in my late 
solitary life. 

In turn, he suggested to me many improvements, and 



Ill 

among others proposed to furnish me with a variety of 
fish, which he had learned at home among his play- 
mates, how to procure from the waters. 

On the night succeeding that of our meeting, I watch- 
ed with joyful eagerness his preparations for an expedi- 
tion in search of eels. He took the spade and dug up 
some angle worms for bait. He then made a string out 
of a portion of my ragged apron, ran it with a thorn 
through the worms lengthwise, put them in a bunch ty- 
ing them with a string, and about midnight dropping 
his bait into a collection of water which was pretty deep 
beside an overhanging rock, soon drew forth a large, 
lovely looking eel, and flung it with rapture upon the 
dry bank of the stream. 

Then he resumed his fishing, and met with repeated 
similar success . ^ 

After we thbuglit a sufficient quantity for supper had 
been caught, we jvent to our fire, prepared them for 
cooking, perfortoieft the necessary culinary operations 
and made a meal upon them with a truly delicious 
relish. 

Subsequently, he also proposed a search after the 
sugar maple tree, in order to get a supply of the delica- 
cy which it afibrds. 

He was successful. He made an incidon into the 
trunk, a short distance, say about his own height, from 
the ground, and the sap began to run slowly from the 
orifice. 

Underneath, upon the ground, he placed one of our 
china bowls, and in the course of severel days it was 



112 

half full of rich sweet juice. This he boiled down, and 
the result was that excellent constituent, maple sugar. 

In one of our rambles together, we accidentally came 
to the sight of an immense grape vine, running over a 
large oak tree, and loaded to luxuriant profusion, with 
its deep blue, ripe fruit, of which we partook with the 
greatest pleasure, and the course to which (lest we 
should never otherwise find it again,) we marked with 
precision, by stewing portions of bushes from it, towards 
the neighbourhood of our hut. 

We also collected an abundance of the grapes, and 
spread them out in the sunshine to dry, that when 
dreary and unproductive winter should arrive, we might 
have this addition to our stock, in a preserved state, and 
in which condition we proudly termed them raisins, and 
because they seemed to taste better to us by way of va- 
riety, passing under that name. 

In similar absolutely essential avocatiojis we passed 
much of our time. 

We continued to live quite happily together, occasion- 
ally making vain searches for our native home, which 
we might perhaps have found, if we had dared to.ven- 
ture far enough from our little hut and fires. 

I never would let him go out of my sight for a mo- 
ment, if I could help it, so timid was I grown now, and 
80 solicitous to be certain, that I had not lost this great 
solace of my exile. 

When I would perceive him at a distance from me, 
in the greatest trepidation I would run after him, and 
chide him for straying away so far, "only suppose,'* 



113 

was the melancholy expression with which I would 
then address him, "only suppose, that I should lose you, 
that we should get out of sight of each other and never 
be able to meet again." 

Not even at night would I allow of the possibility of 
a separation even for an instant. 

Side by side we slept, and before we gave ourselves 
up to slumber, we linked our little bodies together by 
the slenderest vine we could get, which was yet suffi- 
ciently tenacious not to yield to much pulling. 

We tied it about his and my ancle, and thus one never 
rose from bed, either in the dark or at dawn, without 
waking the other. 

We foresaw the probabiUty of our remaining in the 
desert during the whole summer and autumn, up to the 
coming winter season, and dreading famine and frosty 
we exerted ourselves much in collecting nuts and other 
articles of provision, and making fit for preservation 
those kinds which could be preserved by drying or smo- 
king, as nuts, grapes and fish, and in storing them away 
in our hut, against the inclement time of deep snows 
and freezing temperatures. 

It was upon those species of food that we calculated 
to support existence, until as we in the greatest horrors 
of mind often apprehended, we should perish by severe 
cold weather. 

We also piled up a great quantity of fuel, consisting 
of leaves, twigs, and branches of trees and bushes. 

At this time at length, the vicinity of our cottagv 
(now no longer a hermitage, thanks to kind Heaven,) 

10 



114 

began to exhibit marks of human industry, and ac- 
cumulations of some of the substantial comforts of 
life. 

It also showed well trodden footpaths, (by our tiny 
steps,) leading in different directions — to our treasure 
excavation, to the grape vine, to the spring, the brook, 
a favourite knoll on which we used to sit together and 
listen to the sweet songis of the feathered choristers of 
the grove, and look upon the attractive scenery of hill 
and ravine, rock and rivulet, and to many other resorts 
of our forest business and pleasures. 

It was by the assistance of Tommy, that I had been 
enabled to construct a larger hut, in which we could 
stand erect, and also find room enough for all our stores 
of nuts, preserved grapes, smoked fish, &c. 

A second week of our exile had now passed in the 
forest, one together, and one before we had met. 

We began to ponder seriously upon thfe matter of our 
clothing. Neither of us had more than one suit ; that 
would soon be worn out, and where were we to procure 
more? 

We had read stories of men covering their bodies with 
the skins of wild beasts, but how could w^e, two help- 
less, unarmed, little children, venture to explore the 
dangerous mazes of the woods, and beat out from their 
Jens and coverts, with hopes of destroying them, the 
savage quadrupeds of the wilderness ? 

Such adventures could only be undertaken by a 
number of powerful and well aimed men, having either 
fire arms, swords, or war clubs. 



115 

Tommy, had often heard people speak of the various 
stratagems which the red men of the woods resorted to, 
in order to entrap bears, which furnished them equally 
with food, clothing and a bed. 

Accordingly, with our spade, alternately relieving 
each other in the arduous task, we proceeded to dig 
holes in the earth, in places distant from each other, 
which we intended to be large, deep, and perpendicular. 
Every leisure hour, which we could spare from olher 
avocations and amusements, we devoted to this import* 
ant operation. We laboured at it daily, weekly, month- 
ly, sop^etimes several hours in one day, until it was late 
in the autumn, ere our endeavours were fully effected. 

Then we had made excavations, each about ten feet 
square, in various places, in the vicinity and on different 
sides of our dwelling, and some quite remote therefrom, 
and covered them over with light brushwood, leaves, 
small stones and earth, sufficiently to conceal them from 
the view of any animal prowling near. 

The earth which we took out, we carefully carried 
away and scattered about in the various hollow^s of the 
ground's surface near each one of our artificial cavities, 
or bear traps. 

The fresh earth thus scattered, we covered over with 
leaves, after having trod it down with our little naked 
feet, so that there should not be presented to the eye, or 
sense of smell of the beast of prey, any object or ap- 
pearance which might be calculated to excite its suspi- 
cion, that all was not right. 

To return to the third week. 



116 

We were very attentive to personal cleanliness. The 
near vicinity of water courses aUorded us facilities which 
we daily availed ourselves cf. for bathing and purifying 
ourselves from the least particle of dust and perspiration, 
whose long continuance upon the skin, might obstruct 
the free exercise of the functions of its pores. Our gar- 
ments we frequently boiled in one of the culinary uten- 
sils, which the treasure excavation had yielded to us, 
and which of course was never used by us for any other 
purpose than washing. We endeavoured to complete 
the laundress's duties, as well as our juvenile skill and 
contrivance could bring it about. 

Occasionally we searched deeper into our treasure 
cave, and at every inspection developed from its con- 
cealment, additional resources for an increase of our 
comforts and improvement in the art of living happily. 

Once we found a woman's large work box of costly 
make, and well preserved, probably from the peculiar 
nature of the wood, which contained implements and 
articles for sewing, and a variety of serviceable nick- 
nacks in the way of keeping habiliments and the person 
in order — pins, needles, cotton, thread, sewing silk, the 
latter three articles of various qualities and colours, 
•cissors, thimbles, penknives, tape, ribbon, combs, tooth 
brushes, and not to be tedious, a considerable variety of 
such Httlematter$ so pressingly needed in our little, hum- 
ble quiet housekeeping. 

For the reader's information, and to show how frugal 
we were, I must publicly declare one highly important 
fact, which affords a salutary lesson to families moving 



in spheres more elevated than cur own. A vast num« 
ber of the luxurious sons and daughters of rank and 
fashion, might here pause and learn wisdom from in- 
vestigating our family concerns. It is a tribute which 
is but our due, and we ought to have it, and have it we 
will. Kind reader, pardon my female vanity, while I 
disclose the mighty secret, and do not retort upon me, 
as to my boasting and the disclosure, " that the moun- 
tain has laboured, and brought forth a mouse." Do not 
either refuse to give me credit for veracity in the asser- 
tion, but here thou hast the important revealment, which 
may detract from your good opinion of us in the matter 
of our hospitable disposition. We saved all our heaps 
of gold and silver found in the cavity, and one reason 
was, that we never gave large tea, or dinner par- 
ties, nor even had a sociable at home for a do^ept 
nor gave a chance visiter a single glass of wine, or piece 
of cake. 

May the polite and sensible world forgive us for our 
churlishness. > 

Indeed we must claim some degree of exemption from 
excessi^ odium on our niggardness, by assigning as 
one reason, which we do not, however, very much in- 
sist upon, why we did not keep open house and see 
muc& company, that which perhaps the sagacious read- 
er, during a perusal of these silly, dull, uninteresting, 
prosing pages, may from some remote hints which I 
have given, guessed. 

To each of those readers, whose acuteness is unable to 
penetrate the mystery, I must say, ask thy neighbour. 

10* 



118 

From this digression, I return to the circumstance of 
the work box. The contents of it, enabled us to repair 
rents in our garments, and keep them whole and sub- 
stantial. For the instant that the least symptoms of 
giving away, exhibited itself in any part of our clothing, 
we seized needle, thread and scissors, and flourishing 
them vigorously under the standard of that ancient and 
invaluable apothegm, that " one stitch in time saves 
nine," we healed the breach in our fortifications, against 
stormy weather, and did not Buffer the enemy to steal a 
march upon our outworks. All that talk on military 
tactics, means that we mended our old clothes, for which 
elucidation of my tactician phrases, the erudite reader 
is vastly obliged to me. 

Frequently our thoughts recurred to the morning 
subsequent to that blessed evening, on which I had first 
to my astonishment discovered a human figure at my 
fire side ; beheld it go to sleep ; watched over it ; then 
slumbered by its side, and on awakening that morning 
beheld it bending over me, and heard it speak, and call 
me by my own name ; the mutual recognition and re-, 
joicing after we had been two little, separate, solitary 
hermits in the wild woods for a whole week, relying 
upon our own feeble, childish efforts to sustain our ex- 
istence, by feeding on berries, nuts, &c. ; and the re- 
counting to each other all the details of our separate ex-, 
posure and sufferings. 

That seventh, or eighth day of our exile was all 
perfect felicity, as far as mortals can partake of it. 

Those persons who dwell in the bosom of refined so. 



119 

ciety, every day hear the voices of their fellow creatures, 
see their forms, interchange ideas with them, help them 
in domestic offices, and are helped by them, cannot at 
all appreciate or have the most distant estimation of the 
degree, or even nature of the happiness, which Tommy 
and I enjoyed in each other's company, during the 
whole of that first day of our re-union. 

Our little hands were interlocked in each others, al- 
most the whole lapse of the rosy hours, which flew 
apace, making the very ground upon which we walked 
or laid down together, to have, in our new state of bliss, 
the softness of feathers, silk and satin. The pretty 
wild flowers which bloomed and glowed in a thousand 
varied, pensive and brilliant hues in the neighbourhood 
of each mossy bank, where in our ramblings we occa- 
sionally reclined, breathed a more delicious fragrance 
upon our senses ; the cooling breezes of heaven seemed 
to be more balmy and sportive among the foliage, as if 
the spirit of each gentle zephyr sympathized humanely 
with our transports ; the azure of the vaulted canopy 
of the skies shed a purer blue ; the flitting clouds as- 
sumed tlie forms and features of our distant friends smil- 
ing upon our mutual happiness; the stars at night 
seemed like more glorious orbs, each hanging in its 
clearer atmosphere, irradiating it with lovelier beams, 
and looked as if they were rejoicing ; our hearts tingled 
with pleasure ; the little world of our feelings owned 
all the voluptuousness of love toward all things animate 
or inanimate, and we kissed the very trees and rocks in 
the ardour of our enthusiasm* 



ISO 

We did not require as much as usual to eat on that 
blessed day. We feasted upon the joy of looking into 
each other's sparkling eyes, listening to the soft and en- 
rapturing music of each others' tiny voices, and thinking 
in mutual throbbing of heart to heart, of anticipated so- 
cial sports and pastimes. 

Night, which formerly seemed to linger long and re- 
luctant after the wearisome and lonely day, now appa- 
rently hurried forward and closed in around us unwel- 
comed, and before its wonted time. 

We retired to our hut, after having replenished our 
fire heaps, laid down side by side, and talked our- 
selves to sleep, holding fast of each others' hands, for 
fear of again being alone. 

Awakening on the second morning of our re-union, 
we started in surprise from our bewildering dreams and 
our drowsiness, embraced and kissed a dozen times in 
unfeigned and mutual rapture at sight of each other 
after sleep, as if we had never met before, issued hand 
in hand fwi^ our humble resting place, and kneeling 
outside upon the soft and verdant turf, together silently 
thanked God for all his mercies. ^ 

Scarcely less rapturous passed the succeeding days, 
nights, v/eeks and months. 

Our time was almost entirely engrossed in the task 
of getting food and keeping up our fires. 

Every night we retired to repose very much fa- 
tigued, yet every morning we awoke very much re- 
freshed. 

Generally we withdrew ourselves into our hut to 



121 

sleep, at the same time that the fowls of the air went 
to their roosts, having no other light in the hours of 
darkness, than the blaze of our bonfires. The luxury 
of a lamp or a candle, was not numbered in our store of 
household blessings. 

We w^ere obliged to contract habits of rising several 
times in each night in order to put fuel upon our fires, 
lest they should get too low to frighten off wild beasts, 
a danger which absorbed much of our anxious attention 
at all times. On such occasions, we always arose to- 
gether, assisted each in gathering fagots, and then link- 
ed hand in hand returned in company to our mutual 
and lowly couch. 

During the warm season, moschetoes and other in- 
sects had troubled us very much, causing considerable 
inflammation upon our faces, hands, and the exposed 
portions of our bodies. 

My hair, which was of an auburn hue, and of a very 
fine and silky texture, continued to grow with uncom- 
mon rapidity, and Tommy would frequently help me 
to adjust it properly, which same good oflSce I performed 
for him. I became his barber, and used the scissors 
upon his pate most unsparingly, while he said he could 
not find it in his heart to take an inch from the length 
of my locks. They curled naturally about my fore- 
head and temples, down my neck, and over my should- 
ers, in luxuriant profusion. My little mate used often 
to compliment me upon m}' auburn ringlets, light blue 
eyes, and fair rosy complexion, and kissing my pouting 
lips at intervals, would exclaim in the simplicity of his 



99 



122 

childish innocence, **oh, dear litlle Lucy, how pretty 
you do look !'* 

In the meantime the summer passed. We had not 
incurred any important dangers other than those I have 
mentioned. The leaves began to fall from the trees, 
which also dropped upon the ground their tribute of ripe 
nuts, which wc gathered in vast quantities. The woods 
began to look quite sombre when stripped of their fo- 
liage, and the shining of the sun being less obstructed 
from us by this intervening obstacle, the scene around 
us was considerably lightened, and the prospect more 
extensive. 

We could perceive at the early dawn, in the autumn 
months, immense flocks of pigeons and smaller birds, 
winging their way to a warm climate, in avoidance of 
our rigorous winters. 

Their motions were a warning to us, and we laboured 
hard to gather in all our winter stores of food and fuel. 

Although the cold weather had now set in, we 
found our hut comfortably warm, as we were enabled 
to communicate heat to the air within, by kindling a 
small fire upon the earthy floor, suffering the smoke to 
make its egress the best way it could. We had too 
many deeper anxieties, to be much annoyed by such a 
comparative trifle as smoke. 

The wintec, at length, fairly iget in upon us. 

After we had excavated the ground, and prepared our 
bear traps, we had lived in daily hopes that some pass- 
ing animal of that species, might fall into one or another 



Hi 

of them. But day after day passed, and every thing 
remained in the same state in which we had placed it. 

One morning, when little Tommy and I, had just 
arisen from our leafy couch, on going outside of our hut 
together, we both exclaimed atone moment, "snow I 
snow !" 

And sure enough, the whole appearance of the face 
of nature was changed. The sober brown of the many 
fallen leaves of autumn, which had completely hid the 
naked earth and herbage from our view for some weeks, 
and which pensive colour we had become so habitually 
accustomed to, was now in itself displaced by a dazzling 
and universal robe of the purest white, extending as far 
as the eye could pierce the depths of the forest, which 
had descended from the heavens during the night, so 
gently, that the boundless prospect of brilliant white- 
ness, which met our waking sight in the morning, was 
the first intimation we had, that so great a change had 
occurred in the appearance on the face of nature. 

The fall of snow was but light, merely of sufficient 
depth to conceal every appearance of any other colour 
on the ground, but its own pure ermine hue. 

Children as we were, our feelings were highly ex- 
cited by this first snow, and we leaped up and down, 
ran to and fro, kicking up the fleecy substance, gather- 
ing it into balls, pelting each other in the wantonness 
of sport, and were pretty quickly compelled by its cut- 
ting coldness to our naked feet and hands, which were 
now glowing red, to run towards our fires and hover 
over them, until our benumbed and almost frostbitten 



124 

toes and fingers were restored to their accustomed feel- 
ings. 

We re-entered our hut, re-invested ourselves with our 
shoes and stockings, and exquisitely enjoyed their 
friendly warmth, doubly agreeable after our exposure. 
We then, thus protected from suffering, again played 
about in the snow for a considerable time. Suddenly, 
Tommy exclaimed, " Oh ! see here, Lucy, only look 
here !" 

Quickly, I ran towards him to ascertain the cause of 
his exclamation, and on looking down towards the 
earth, at which his forefinger was steadily pointed, I 
perceived in the snow the tracks of an animal. 

" I know it must be a bear," added my eager com- 
panion, and despite my strongly expressed alarm, and 
earnest entreaties for him to return into our hut, he pur- 
sued with highly agitated emotion, the tracks of the 
creature, further and further away from our dwelling. 

Reluctantly, though apprehensive for my own safety, 
yet fearing to tryst^ my beloved Tommy out of my sight, 
trembling lest we might both be assailed by some fero- 
cious beast of prey and devoured alive, I followed in 
his footsteps, my eyes all the time roving around in ter- 
ror, to scan the surrounding scenery, for the view of 
that object which I dreaded, yet tried to behold. 

On, onward he proceeded, until at length the course 
conducted us near to one of our bear traps. 

All at once, as my guide approached the trap, he 
shouted and reiterated in exulting triumph, " the bear 
is caught, the bear is caught." 



125 

I ran with more hurried speed up to Tommy's side, 
and as we attamed closer to the excavation, we per- 
ceived that the covering of sticks and leaves was 
away. 

We cautiously advanced, and looking in, were half 
terrified and half overjoyed, to discover therein the crea- 
ture whose tracks we had pursued, and which had caus- 
ed us so much anxiety. 

It was a huge animal, of the identical species which 
the trap had been set for. 

He looked up at us, with his glaring eyeballs, but 
was impotent in his present condition, being about ten 
feet down, the entire depth of the cavity, up whose per- 
pendicular sides he was unable to climb. He could 
not much more than turn around and around, which he 
continued to do, apparently in great rage. 

Then we perceived that his right hind leg had been 
broken, probably by his fall into the pit, owing to the 
violent concussion which his very heavy weight must 
have occasioned in the act of falling. 

He growled, and scratched the perpendicular sides of 
his prison, which only brought earth into his eyes, caus- 
ing him to shake his head, put his nose to his feet, lift 
up his forepaws, as well as he could in his lame condi- 
tion, and rub the earth from his features. 

Eagerly desirous to kill him for food immediately, and 
without waiting until he starved, and to procure his skin 
for clothing and bedding, we ran for clubs ; and seizing 
the largest and heaviest hickory sticks which we could 
find, returned to the trap, and reaching down, we, with- 

11 



126 

out having in our bosoms, the least scintillation from the 
sparklings of mercy or remorse, struck the ends of our 
clubs against the creature's head, but failed to kill him, 
or even apparently to wound him seriously. By this 
cruel operation we disturbed the monster's equanimity, 
■till more than his new confinement had done. 

He leaped up, and gnashing his teeth, continued to 
growl at us in all the vehemence of his impotent rage* 
The cavity was too deep for him, and the sides too 
perpendicular, for the animal to inflict upon us even 
the remotest apprehension of any danger from him. 

Our next expedient, to shorten his tenacious exist- 
ence, was a resort to stones. We pelted him with peb- 
bles, then larger stones, and latterly rolled towards the 
trap, as big ones as we were enabled by our joint efforts 
to move up to and over its edge. We pushed them in 
upon him, and several severe wounds were by that 
method inflicted. 

Blood now began to flow from his face and back, and 
one of his hind legs. 

Still he lived, and the tenacity of his hold upon life, 
threatened to be such, that we began to despair of de- 
priving him of existence by whatever extent of patient 
and unremitting perseverance we should persist in, up- 
on any plan we had as yet adopted. 

We therefore set our wits to work, and next hit upon 
the proposition of scalding water to be hurled into his 
eyes. The motion was put in the little council of war 
of my Tommy and I, and carried nemine corUradicente, and 
we were about to proceed to carry into execution this 



187 

unanimous and inhuman decree of the council, when 
some intervening difficulties suggested themselves to 
our young imagination. 

To scald the animal alive, we should be some time 
occupied in conveying water from the streamlet to our 
iron pot, and then healing it, and our impatience could 
scarcely brook such dilatoriness. 

We were, however, about to commence this experi- 
ment, when I bethought me, and urged to my fellow 
labourer, that we could get our spade, and digging up 
earth around the trap, throw it into the cavity and thus 
bury the bear aUve. 

No sooner said, than begun. At it we went. Tom- 
my took the spade and I the hoe, and the earth came 
down upon poor Bruin, in unwelcome showers. He 
trod it under foot, and we feared he would be enabled 
to get it all under him as fast as we threw it in, and 
thus, as it would accumulate, he would gradually be 
placed on a level with us. 

So, that at last, we were necessitated to recur to our 
first proposal of scalding hot water. It occupied us 
more than half an hour to fill the large iron pot in the 
treasure cavity, with .water from the brook, kindle the 
fire under it, and heat the water to the boiling point, 
then dipping it out with bowl and pitcher, carry it to 
the bear-trap, and fling it into the wounded and lame 
creature's eyes, ears, nostrils and mouth, as it turned its 
face up towards us ruthless, little butchers, in a mingled 
expression of ferocious wrath and imploring mercy upon 



128 

118, to forbear our savage mangling of its features and 
form. 

If it had not been lamed, by the fracture of its hind 
leg, it might have, in its energetic anger, been enabled 
to tear away the earthy sides of its prison, and by ren- 
dering them less precipitous, have climbed up and de- 
stroyed us its assailants. 

The severe and fatal effects of the scalding water, 
soon began to be visible in its duninished strength and 
relaxed exertions. 

It tossed its bleeding, defaced features, and lacerated 
head, from side to side, lifted its broken limb, the lower 
portion of which dangled loosely and nerveless, fell 
down, and laboured in vain to arise, moaned in anguish, 
and in heart-rending tones, which had no mollifying ef- 
fect upon my companioii's feelings, but which melted 
my girlish sensibilities into pity for the poor, dumb 
beast; and I besought Tommy, though in vain, to cease 
torturing the helpless animal, and to permit it to try its 
chance for life. 

" Why, Lucy, we must have food. I am half starved. 
The flesh of the bear will keep us alive, and it is so 
much hurt now that it must necessarily die." Thus 
Tommy, the eager youth, replied, and amid all my ex- 
postulations, he continued incessantly to carry on his 
inhuman operations upon his dying victim, and to pour 
forth his apologetic sentences upon my shocked yet half 
consenting ear. 

Ah ! a simple state of nature, in which human be- 
ings have to rely upon their own ingenuity and perse- 



199 

vering vigilance at scouring the wide wilderness ia 
search of a morsel of victuals, then using every strata- 
gem, art, force and labour, to possess themselves of that 
morsel, and all (he while, themselves in torture from the 
fierce pangs of hunger, if they are so happy as to dis- 
cover any object which may be appropriated to them- 
selves for eating, be it root or living creature, goaded on 
by hunger and fear of losing this solitary opportunity 
to relieve themselves, allay their stomach's cravings, 
and save life ; they, far from hesitating to kill and de- 
stroy, through motives of humanity, take the utmost de- 
light in witnessing the sufferings of the expiring sacri- 
fice, which only associate in their minds the spectacle 
of animal tortures, with the anticipated feast in all its 
delicious flavour and nourishment to their systems. 

Begging pardon pf the fair reader — or the gentle- 
man, for this digression, we return to the thread of our 
story. 

The bear laid now, almost motionless, and to termi- 
nate its protracted and dying struggles, and complete 
our juvenile victory, we shovelled in earth upon it, and 
unable as it was to rise, we soon had succeeded in en- 
tirely entombing it alive. 

We then jumped into the hole, upon the soft ground 
which covered the body of the bear from sight, stamped 
upon it, danced and sung over it, like wild Indians, all 
the while, thinking with feelings of pride, joy and fan- 
cied gratification of our appetite, of the future slt^ 
speedy meals of which we were to partake. 

We then left the spot, the carcase remaining covered 
11* 



ISO 

in the grave, and hurried to our fires, in preparation for 
the feast I began to reflect upon the stories, which I 
had heard people tell of tlie Indians, and could reaUze 
them to be true. 

These stories were, that a tribe of Indians, passed al- 
most its whole time in the mere immediate occupations 
relating to eating. That the animal gratification of the 
palate, is the principle object of a savage's thoughts, 
and absorbs his or her entire faculties of body and mind. 
That only incited to action by the gnawings of hunger, 
savages stroll along through the woods and over the 
prairies in search of something to eat. Hours, and even 
days and nights, are sometimes passed in this all en- 
grossing employment. In the way, they pick up, here 
and there, berries, nuts, dig up roots, climb trees to get 
fruit, birds, eggs and honey, the taste of which only ag- 
gravatestheir desire for more substantial fare. At length, 
a deer, bear or buffalo shows itself. Then comes the 
chace. Sometimes skill enables them to possess them- 
selves of the game, and a feast and dance ensue the 
death of the hunted beast. 

They leap, shout, sing, play ball, and perform various 
athletic sports, or sleep, and dose in indolent lassitude 
after so much toil for days and nights together, until 
again becoming hungry, again they commence their 
chase after more victuals. 

Borne tribes are more orderly. Having stores laid up 
against a time of want, settled habitations of log dwell- 
ings, canoes and fishing apparatus, wardrobes of ingeni- 
ously manufactured textures, and weavings of shells. 



131 

and deer skin thongs, collections of paint and bears' 
grease, with which they ornament their bodies, equally 
to protect their skins against the stings of insects, and 
to make themselves appear what they consider as hand- 
somely attired, and set out with feathers, gewgaws, 
bright colours, &c. 

Their customs and manners, measurement of time, 
seasons, historical records and traditions, all take their 
tinge from the piedominance which the essential sub- 
ject of procuring food, bears among them, and is some- 
what influenced by other simple, natural objects. 

Thus, they have not, as with us, the denominations 
of arbitrary cognomens for seasons, and intervals of time, 
as Winter, Summer, Spring and Autumn ; January, 
July or November ; Wednesday, Thursday and Friday ; 
one o'clock, two, three or four ; but more romantically, 
(as it seems to civiHzed nations,) yet quite appropriately 
to the natural appearances of the surface of the earth, 
to the vegetation, the crops, the temperature, and their 
temporary occupations, as well as the season of particu- 
lar species of food, they use the pretty and characteris- 
tic expressions, " season of snows,'' " of flowers," " the 
sturgeon time," which latter is, when they are princi- 
pally occupied in seeking for, storing up, and feasting 
upon that species of fish whicn gives the month its 
name, " green corn time," &c. They celebrate periods 
of time, with appropriate festivals. The merry feast 
called "the Green Corn Dance," has become quite 
noted in our Indian history, as the time when fruits are 
ripe, and harvests gathered. They extinguish fires and 



ISS 

mre without them for several days. Then a priest rubs 
two sticks together, and thus procures new fire, which 
they communicate to their fuel as fresh and sacred fire, 
gotten under favourable auspices. 

Well, to return frt>m this (I hope pardonable) digres- 
sion, which I was involuntarily betrayed into by the 
topic I was on — to the thread of my narrative, where I 
was relating the first preparations of Tommy and me, 
for a meal upon bear's meat, we hastened to the vicinity 
of our fires, we heaped up additional fuel, until it made 
all crack again. The flames shot up, and the smoke 
roUed in volumes, blown about by a high wind, which 
came upon us very keenly from the Northwest point of 
the compass, as we calculated it by the sun's rising and 
setting. 

We had been from the moment of our early morning 
discovery, until after the sun had passed its meridian, 
engaged in the laborious task of making our new prize 
available to us for eating. 

We were now, from long fasting and much fatigue, 
grown savagely hungry. Accordingly, we had no 
sooner got our fires well a going, than we hastened back 
to the tomb of the bear. Digging with our spade and 
hoe, we soon cleared the superincumbent earth from the 
carcase, and there lay, motionless, mangled, bleeding, 
and entirely dead, the late ferocious object of our well 
founded terrors. 

With the axe. Tommy succeeded in chopping off the 
lower portion of the hind leg which had been broken. 
We took the rusty table knife, which we had found 



13S 

among the other treasures of coin, crockery, &c., and 
by dint of hacking and hewing, cutting and pulling 
with our fingers, we made out to get the skin off of the 
portion of leg which we had separate^j^om the body. 
This skinned limb was then conveyed''*to oiir fire and 
roasted. Without gravy, salt, pepper, vegetable, bread 
or drink, cutting o if pieces with our knife, an^ taking 
them in our fingers, we fell to, and literally devoured 
the roasted bear meat with exceeding good gusto. The 
rest of the body was skinned, as well as we, little chil- 
dren could effect it, with our knife, axe and fingers ; 
and next chopped into pieces, conveyed to the fire, and 
laid by for future provision. 

The portions of the bear's skin laid together upon our 
bed of leaves, made our couch more luxurious, and we 
began to hope that bye and bye, we should get every 
thing we wanted — food, clothing, and shelter, furniture, 
friends, &c. 

In course of the winter, we captured two more bears 
by means of our traps, destroyed them by burying alive 
as before, and in a manner somewhat similar to that of 
our first assumption of the trade and mystery of a butch- 
er, we contrived to help ourselves to their flesh for food, 
and their skins for bedding and clothing. 

We had now a bear skin covering at night when we 
were in bed, and also a portion wrapped around our 
shoulders in the daytime. 

During the winter, there were many very severely 
cold days, and deep snows. We often heard wild 
beasts howl at midnight, and shuddered upon our bear- 



Ain coach, scarcely darlr? to Tencare out to keep up 
our fife?. Kiit the v>:ry danger of being devoured bj 
wild F/ea*i^ cauced u« Cu be n;ore adveiiturcus hi order 
to collect neceasuy fuel, as a bright Haze was our much 
confided in fortificaticn and sentinel while we slept. 

How often did we Irng for oar parents' dear watch- 
dog. But such intrusive thoughts were only vain ag- 
gravations of our despondency. 

In the pleasant winter days, we would amuse our- 
selves by sliding upon the ice, and often found the sur- 
face of the snow to be sufficiently frozen for that pur- 
pose. 

Thus we passed the dreary season of Winter. 

IVhen Spring opened, we frequently availed ourselves, 
of a mild clear day, to make excursions. 

One afternoon, we came to open fields. We thought 
we recognized our native neighbourhood. 

There was the river, here the hill, near by the corn- 
field, and not far off, the speedily recognized orchard. 

Yes, it was the same. But where were the build- 
ings 1 

Alas ! upon the spot where they had stood, we 
only could discern heaps of wet cinders and ashes. 

There had been only three families, that we had ever 
known of, living within hundreds of miles of my parents* 
house, one of which was the family my companion be- 
longed to, and was a cherished member of. 

Our four dwellings had formerly been within sight 
of each other. Now, none were to be seen. 

Upon searching for the three dwellings of our neigh- 



186 

boursy we perceived that they also had been burned. 
They appeared to have been a very long time in such 
a condition. 

This calamity, also at onc^ accounted for the won- 
der, that our parents and neighbours had not found us 
in the forest. 

We conjectured one cause of the conflagration, then 
another, and at»last fixed upon the melancholy conclu- 
sion, that the Indian savages had attacked the remote 
settlement, murdered the defenceless inhabitants, in- 
cluding our own two families. 

And we could not avoid an apt reflection, which 
flashed upon both of our young minds^ as if a divine 
truth in the moral world, like the lightning's sudden de- 
scent in the physical world, could come directly from 
heaven amid the darkness of our infant ignorance, and 
thus enlighten our benighted intellect, and leave there 
forever vivid, the memory of the kind dispensation. 
The reflection was this, that if we had remained with 
our parents, we should probably have been murdered 
by the savages, as we so reasonably conjectured had 
been the fate of all the once happy inhabitants of this 
now desolated hamlet. Thus the wolf which frighten- 
ed us away from home, caused our exemption from hu- 
man assassination. The supposed judgment upon us, 
of our involuntary exile in the forest, was ^sanctified to 
us. It was God's blessing — not judgment. We were 
not banished from home and peace, but from home and 
horrid death. 

"From amid the thorns — danger, we pluck the flower — safety." 



136 

What we had considered hitherto, as the greatest ca- 
lamity which could have befallen us, proved our highest 
benefit. That which we had deemed evil, was good. 
Our limited, human intelligence, was with all it« natu • 
ral imperfection^ groping in the darkness which in our 
weak sense, enshrouded the doings of the Almighty. 
Then the sun of divine truth arose, and its morning 
rays brightly dawned upon our night of false concep- 
tions, the gloomy shades fled before its irradiating beams, 
and in that day of knowledge and inspiration, we both 
bent our infant knees and knelt before high heaven, to 
do homage to the sublime conviction of God's presence 
in our ways, and his protecting providence in our be- 
half. 

With regard to the many conjectures we had formed 
relative to the origin of the shocking scenes, of our na- 
tive dwellings destroyed, and the whole vicinity laid 
waste and depopulated, the right one, was afterwards, 
but too surely developed, in a subsequent part of this 
Narrative, the reader will be let into the secret of the 
catastrophe, and disappearance of the friends we had 
cherished in our thoughts so tenderly. 



1S7 



CHAPTER X. 

i 

VOLUMES OF INCIDENT. — GREAT CHANGES. 

As soon as this horrid thought seized upon our imagi- 
nations, our faculties became almost bewildered with 
amazement and palsied with terror ; and involuntarily, 
without interchanging a syllable, but only anxious and 
affrighted looks'; we ran swiftly back to the now protect- 
ing woods, turning our heads occasionally to espy if any 
savage was in pursuit. 

We retraced our steps homeward, by means of the 
strewed bushes, with which we had so prudently de- 
signated our wanderings, reached in safety our hut, and 
determined through fear, to seclude ourselves as much 
as possible, from the observation of any of the painted, 
cruel warriors of the forest, who might be prowling 
about for more human victims to their bloodthirsty dis- 
positions. 

Occasionally, however, we made stolen visits to the 
desolated homes of our parents, gathered apples, and 
for future crops planted corn, which we had foimd lying 
about in ears as they had fallen from the stalk, and with 
the same view of a harvest, put some potatoes also in the 
ground, a few of which we had discovered near the 
ashes of ray native dwelling. 

12 



138 

On one of •Ii0!=c ntoltrn and hastv riflis. we were so 
for(iinat(*, an to (liKcovcr a licii cind chickens, and afier- 
wanln Kcvcial more fowls, which we conirived aiier 
much exertion to capture, and which we conTered lo 
o'lr hut. I{y mutual efforts we pre[iared an endosure, 
covered at the top, wherein we placed our precious prize 
of poultry, from which we hoped to derive manvacom- 
fortahle reliHJi of roast chicken and boiled eggs. 

Here I ho|)c the kind reader will pardon a moment's 
re-occurrence to my re-union with Tommy in the woods, 
in the fin^t eitrht or ten days of my dreary exile, for some 
necessary exphmation. 

The reaHon that Tommy appeared without coat and 
hj^t (afl I mentioned) was, because he had left home in 
that careless manner, in confscquence of the warmth of 
the season. 

There we both were then, in the wild woods, remote 
■from civilized society, two little children of either sex, 
no protecting older persons to provide us with clothing, 
and no means of obtaining any article which could 
serve as a garment, to keep our bodies from sufiering in 
the cold weather, which must come, and might find us 
perchance, still exiled from home and its advantages. 

We had been more than a week in the wilderness, . 
both of us had vainly searched for our homes. Our 
parents and their neighbours had evidently given up all 
endeavours to trace us out, and we should be compelled 
perhaps to remain in the dreary woods all summer, fall 
and winter, and may be for the remainder of our lives. 
The endeavour to protract existence through the com- 



139 

ing Several storms and freezing temperatures of stern, 
frowning winter, without any other habiUments than 
those which we then had upon our persons, would be a 
taskj hopeless indeed. By the time cold weather should 
approach, our clothes would be much more torn and worn 
out than they were now. For we were already as the 
reader knows, in tatters. We had at that time neither 
needle, nor thread to fasten our rags together, not hav- 
ing yet found the woman's workbox which has been 
mentioned, nor had we the most distant idea that such 
useful materials could possibly be procured by us, situa- 
ted as we were. Our clothes would then fall from us 
piecemeal by piecemeal, or at least be so completely 
tattered, as to afford but slight if any the least protec- 
tion against frost, and keen piercing cold winds. What 
should we dol We must certainly perish for want of 
clothing. Thus, a few minutes' meditation, every time- 
when we indulged in it, conjured up to our terrified ima- 
ginations, the same prospect of a horrid, hngering death 
in some dreadful shape. One time it was the idea of 
wild beasts, then famine, anon exposure to rain, or to 
damp, heavy dews, and chilly airs through the dark- 
ness of nights, next, it was freezing to death for want 
of clothing. Then we would have deemed the posses- 
sion of any, even the coarsest and homeliest of wear, 
which at home, we would have been ashamed to have 
been seen using, as now the most precious of earthly 
possessions. 

Under these impressions, we would stand and look in 
each others' faces, contemplating each other, as two 



140 

children devoted to certain and speedy death. We mar- 
Yelled then, that under all the circumstances by which 
we were surrounded, and amid the fancied and future 
evils which haunted our minds, that we lived on from 
one hour to another. At such times, and amid such 
ideas, we became melancholy and desponding, and de- 
spair was written upon our countenances. We fre- 
quently felt disposed to lie down, like the children who 
were the theme of that interesting tale called **the 
Babes in the Woods," and resigning our soul to our 
Creator, yield ourselves up to deatli, let it come in what 
hideous form it might choose to assume. We did, once, 
on the afternoon of the day, subsequent to our meeting, 
hold a conversation to the following effect, and act, as I 
am now about to state. 

Lucy. {My arm around his neck.) Oh ! Tommy, let 
us lie down together, side by side, and thus die. Mother 
often told me, that good little children go to Heaven 
when they die, and I am sure. Tommy, that neither 
you nor I can have done any harm, do you think we 
have. Tommy 1 

Tommy. (Looking in my face.) Ah! but Lucy, is it 
not wicked to think of giving ourselves up to die? I 
have read in good books, that when people are in trou- 
ble, they should consider it as sent upon them from God, 
as a trial of their firmness in piety and virtue, that it is 
their bounden duty to exert themselves to bear up under 
sickness, sorrow and affliction, with patience and resig- 
nation, to live in order that they may do as much good 
in this woild as possible, and that they should earnestly 



141 



v; 



beseech their Creator, to grant them strength from on 
high, to sustain themselves when assailed by calami- 
ties. Also, that God will barken to tbe pray^ of the 
humble and contrite spirit, and often be pleased to send 
help when least expected. 

That in times of direst need, there is the greatest 
cause for hope that help is nigh unto tlie sufferer. 

We then both knelt and prayed devoutly for mercy 
and assistance, and for God's gracious pardon for any 
transgressions which we might have committed. 

Lucy. I feel somewhat reheved in my mind now. 
Tommy, since we have prayed to our God. 

There is something within me, that seems to whisper 
to me, some good is to happen to us. I hope it is true. 
Who knows, but what succour may arrive 1 I am much 
more cheerful now, and really feel as if death was going 
away from us. 

Tommy, Yes, Lucy, perhaps we may be found by 
some one of the neighbours, or some traveller, or good 
may arrive in a way which now we cannot even conjec- 
ture. 

Lucy, You encourage me very much, and I will try 
to live. 

And we did live through that day. At night, as I 
have said in an earlier portion of the story, we found 
ourselves gently sinking to sleep, in our hut, lying be- 
side each other, like brother and sister, upon our soft 
bed of leaves. 

The night passed over our heads, wx were undisturb- 
ed by dreams, unawakened by any noise or sound of 

12* 



142 

alarm, daylight broke in uf)on us unawares, and lifted 
the leaden weight of slumber gently and kindly from 
our eyelids. 

We both opened our eyes upon each other simultane- 
ously, as if by some secret sympathy of joy amid our 
less dreary solitude, and sprang from our place of re- 
pose, to go forth and breathe the fresh air. 

It was a lovely morning. The sun had just arisen. 
A few, fleecy clouds were riding high in the heavens, 
which the rays of the genial god of day tinged with a 
variety of beautiful and attractive hues, purple, red and 
pink — ^pale almost to whiteness. 

Not a breeze murmured among the branches, or stir- 
red a single leaf. 

The red breasted robin, the yellow bird, the bluejay 
with his brilliant plumage, and a variety of the tiny 
feathered songsters of the air, were piping their merry* 
tunes — the unsophisticated tribute of their praise to 
their maker for life and joy, and merry light, and were 
twittering from spray to spray, in all the innocent glad- 
someness of artless animal impulses. 

The beams of the morning sun, began to peep smil- 
ingly into our humble hut, playing on the edge of our 
couch of leaves, as if to enliven the seclusion of the 
place, cheer us up and bless with hope. 

The despairing feelings, which we had entertained 
on the previous afternoon, were entirely gone, delight- 
ful sensations, consequent upon nerves re-invigorated 
by sleep, and re-animated by the liveliness of morning 



143 

scenery, thrilled through our bosoms, and we wondered 
what had made us so wretched yesterday. 

All nature seemed to smile complacently, and pro- 
mised us peace, plenty, and happiness. 

We could scarcely realize that we actually were in a 
desponding mood of mind so recently, and almost 
deemed it to have been a frightful dream. 

Yet, our circumstances were in nowise changed. The 
fluctuation was only in our own sensations. Our hu- 
moui was different, and the brilliant pictures of the 
morning landscape, reflected their glorious colours, upon 
the mirror of our hearts. 

In our then pleasing state of mind, we could scarcely 
think that there were such things as sorrow and trouble 
in the world, and we felt, children, as we were, as if 
only playing in the woods, in a short excursion from our 
dear parents and friends. 

So redolent of happiness is the mind of youth, so fleet- 
ing are the impressions of suffering upon young memo- 
ries. 

Oh ! blessed state. Would that we could always be 
little children, in possession at least of childhood's sus- 
ceptibility to joy, and readiness to get rid of unpleasant 
reminiscences, if to retain nought else of that season of 
our lives. 

We were not in any pain. We had food, simple 
though it was indeed, but healthy and satisfactory to 
our appetite. The mild temperature of the air did not 
render our persons, sensible to any degree of unpleasant 
coldness. 



144 

On the contrary, the freshness of the morning ze- 
phyrs, was extremely grateful to our senses. The mu- 
sic of the birds in the grove, >yas highly inspiriting to 
U0. We were in good health, and had a fine flow of 
spirits. The atmosphere was free from storms. The 
ground was only slightly covered with a light dew, 
which the sun'i warm rays were fast evaporating. A 
few curls of mist were, slowly and in pleasing show, 
sailing upwards along the distant hills. Every thing 
around us bore the delightful aspect of joy and happi- 
ness, and for the time, all sorrowful recollections of the 
past, anticipations of the future, had fled from our minds, 
and free from care or grief, w^e enjoyed, unadulterated 
and unmingled, the pure, exquisite sensations which 
are a mere consciousness of simple yet happy existence. 

Thus, it can be perceived, that this life so rashly flung 
from us by our own suicidal hands, is full of joy as well 
as of woe even in its most apparently desperate condi- 
tion. 

For awhile, we walked about, listlessly, without any 
fixed design, but merely from involuntary impulses to 
be in motion. 

Let us, (said Tommy, addressing me,) go to work at 
once, and do all we can, to prepare for the coming win- 
ter. It is yet far off, and we have time enough to ac- 
complish much. 

I replied, yes, indeed, we ought to do so, if there is 
any thing to be done. But what can we do, in this 
desolate place 1 There is no way of earning money 
here, and indeed as to that we have money sufficient 



145 

already among our dug up treasures, if we had only the 
means of expending it. There are no shops here, out 
of which to get flannel or cloth, and there is nothing 
whatever to be found, which can at all contribute to 
our comfort, in protection against the storm. 

Little Tommy, then, as if struck by some new idea, 
enthusiastically broke out in this strain, while his eyes 
fairly sparkled with pleasure, " Oh ! Lucy, I'll tell you 
what we'll do. 

" We'll build a new, larger, tighter and stronger hut, 
we'll put into it plenty of nuts, honey, dried berries and 
grapes, and turtle's flesh if we can get it, smoked in or- 
der to make it keep, and any roots or other thing fit to 
eat, which we can collect. Then we'll gather as much 
wood as we can, and place it near our hut. When the 
weather comes too cold for us to go out, we will remain 
night and day in the hut, warmed by a fire which we'll 
keep in it, never going out except to provide fuel, or 
for the sake of taking a short walk not far from our 
hut, so that we can quickly run back, if we get too cold. 
Our provisions will keep us from starving, the warm 
air of the hut will prevent our suffering for the want of 
clothing, and the whole winter will thus pass away over 
our heads, without destroying us, or even hurting us in 
the least." 

"Ah !" rejoined I, " Tommy, that is all a very pretty 
picture, that your imagination has been painting, but is 
it any thing else except imagination ? How are we to 
build a larger hut ? Get wood enough to last us all 
winter 1 Lay up nuts, &c., suflicient for the long, dreary 



. 146 

winter ? Ah ! Tommy, I apprehend that you are only 
cheating yourself into vaili hopes, and (hat when winter 
really comes — stormy pitiless winter, that something too 
dreadful for us now to tiiink of, will happen to poor you 
or I. I begin again to feel very miserable. What do 
you think of it Tommy, ha 1" 

The boy, overcome with the shadow of doubt, which 
my misgiving mind had spread over his meditations, 
looked down to the ground gloomily, and seemed for a 
few moments to be converted to my opinion, or at least 
considerably under the influence of my rhetorical appeals, 
and was just about to burst out into tears, when I felt it 
to be necessary for me, to re-assume the task of consol- 
ing hijip, and drop that of depressing his spirits. 

I pretended to be somewhat convinced that he might 
possibly succeed, for I was fairly frightened to see the 
severe effect which the desponding tone of my remarks 
had upon his mind, his sad looks, the glistering eye, 
and I therefore spoke to him soothingly and encourag- 
ingly. 

" Well, come on Tommy, let us begin at once to try 
what we can effect, towards putting up a bigger house. 
Do tell me what to do, and I'll help you all that I 
can.*' 

Somewhat re-assured, by my apparent cheerfulness. 
Tommy looked about for a proper location, on which to 
erect a superstructure. 

After a great deal of deliberation, and canvassing of 
various places and modes of building, and materials out 
of which to construct this new edifice, w^e concluded to 



U7 

use broad sods, wliich could easily be cut out from the 
open places around high rocks, where moss and low 
grass grew in abundance, and by our hands could be 
removed to a considerable distance. ^- * 

To work we accordingly went. We selected for oiir 
larger hut, already mentioned, a spot of ground, on one 
side of which arose a perpendicular rock, much higher 
than the one that had constituted one side of our little 
hut, and which presented a tolerably smooth and per- 
fectly clean surface for a side wall, and on the top of 
which rock were, a little back from its edge, other, large, 
rough rocks, thrown together in irregular confusion, and 
a little back of which was a considerable elevation of 
earth, covered with shrubs and wild flowers. 

The whole looked as if thrown together there by the 
careful hand of nature for some such purposes, as that 
to which we now were preparing to appropriate it, so 
admirably was it adapted to form one protecting side of 
a dwelling, the more especially, as the hill and perpen- 
dicular rock faced the southeast, and the mass of hill 
and rock would, by our hut being built on the southeast 
face of it, be placed between our bodies and the north- 
west point of the compass, and be thus a barrier to pro- 
tect us from the keen and cutting blasts, which from 
that quarter in the winter season, come howling over 
the dreary waste with such terrible power, and freezing 
severity. Besides, the rays of the morning sun, and of 
its southern declination, would be caught by the rock's 
high, perpendicular face, and reflected down upon our 
hut in concentrated warmth, thus giving us almost a 



148 

summer climate within our little hut in clear days, even 
amid frosts and snows, and northwest piercing winds 
without. 

To return to where we left off— with the account of 
our discovery of our parents' home desolated, and conse- 
quent occasional excursions thither. 

I should have previously stated, that in course of the 
first winter, which we passed in the forest, by means 
of fire, we made out to clear away a large open space in 
the immediate vicinity of our hut. 

Around large trees, which stood somewhat isolated, 
we kindled fires, and burned them off, at a little distance 
above the roots, so completely, that they fell prostrate by 
their own pressing weight. We continually threw 
water upon the trunk, at a considerable height above 
the burning f)ortion of it, in order to save the great body 
of the tree for fuel, and any other purposes that might 
be needed. 

In tliat manner we levelled a great many large trees 
around our hn(, and had an open, clear space, in which 
durinj,^ tUv -pi ijig seufjon, after the frost had finally quit- 
ted the scene, we planted the grains of Indian com and 
the potatoes, which we had procured from the ruins of 
the settlement. 

It was probably, in the middle of the month of Au- 
gust, that we had been first lost in these woods. The 
Summer, Autumn, Winter, and a portion of the Spring 
had now passed. 

We were comparatively comfortable, and anticipated, 
for the next year, not only comforts, but the absolute 



149 

luxuries of com and the meal to be made from it, and 
also the much esteemed dishes of boiled and roasted po- 
tatoes, added to Indian pudding, constituted of simple 
Indian meal and water boiled. 

Our table (the ground) was now set forth with dried 
apples, pears, peaches, and cherries, gathered from our 
parents' deserted orchards ; nuts, dried grapes, m^e 
sugar, stewed cranberries, eggs of birds and our chick- 
ens, the brood of which increased and multiplied, show- 
ing astonishing fecundity. But oh ! how we longed 
for flour, milk, and other simples, which we had enjoyed 
at our parents' house. 

It was with very great satisfaction that we beheld 
the buds of the leaves and flowers in spring. We watch- 
ed their development from day to day, through each 
beautiful process, into matured, green leaves and bril- 
liant hued flowers, with high enjoyment. 

As summer days grew long, and the weather very 
warm, our potato and corn patches began to exhibit 
symptoms of prosperity. 

With what elated triumph and pure gratification we 
beheld the ripening, in the proper season, of the ma- 
turity of our crops, pulled off the green com, cooked and 
ate it, afterwards collected the ripe ears, and dug our 
p:)tatoes of which, we heaped up a very plentiful store 
against time of need. 

We now bathed, as in the previous summer, strolled 
about the forest, and passed away the season with lesa 
labour and more sati ifaci o i than we had the first sum« 
mer of our sojourn in the desert. 



150 

Matters and things now begun to assume the appear- 
ance of a civilized settlement — vegetable gardens, trod- 
den down soil, burned trees, heaps of ashes, a but, and 
articles of household use, as the cooking utensils, etc. 

Autumn again set in, and we again stored away pro- 
visions and fuel. We also had obtained many varieties 
of fish, by putting cross sticks in the brooks, allowing 
the water to pass, but arresting the course of the fish, a 
sufficiency of which we smoked and laid away for win- 
ter's necessities. 

The second winter came. We had, in the summer, 
discovered a beaver dam, and had by means of throwing 
stones, killed some beaver, which afforded food and 
warm skins to add to our bedding. 

We passed the second season of cold, in a tolerable 
pleasant manner, had plenty of food, fire, and the 
amusement of sliding and snow balling each other. 

The third spring, summer, autumn, and winter went 
by, and nothing of any great importance occurred, that 
was surprisingly new, or worth detailing, we having 
been continually adding something to our stock of com- 
forts and conveniences. 

A fourth spring and summer thus passed away, ma- 
king four full years of our being in this wilderness. 

We enjoyed the produce of our corn and potatoes, had 
the nursery of an orchard rising about us, from the seeds 
of fruit which we had planted near our dwelling ; and 
had occasionally succeeded in entrapping bears, out of 
whose skins we had manufactured clothing. 

Alas ! I was again doomed to be alone. 



151 

Tommy had now grown to be a strong lusty lad, his 
age being about thirteen or fourteen ; and 1 also was 
improved in size and strength, having attained to about 
eleven or twelve. 

Impunity from any attacks of robbers, wild beasts or 
savages, made both too careless. 

My companion and I were, at this juncture, frequently 
separated. 

He would venture off in search of one object, and I of 
another in different directions. But, at night we inva- 
riably met together again, and reposed side by side, for 
I could not think of sleeping until he had arrived, how- 
ever later it might be, nor could he sleep away from 
me. 

One dreadful evening, I looked for the boy in vain 
until it was getting quite late. 

It grew to be midnight, and no Tommy returned. 
I was sitting by my fire, but sleepless and watchful. 

I passed the whole dreary night in wakeful terror, 
caused by this sad mystery. 

The morning dawned, I went in search of ray friend. 
But it was only to be grievously disappointed that I 
sought him in every one of our usual haunts — the hut, 
the vicinity of the fires, the bear traps, the fish dams, 
the corn and potato garden, the various places, where 
we had been wont occasionally to resort, and every nook 
and corner of the forest, within a great distance from 
our abode. 

I even made a solitary journey to our native neigh- 
borhood, and stealthily peeped from behind trees, rocks 



152 

and fences, in fear of prowling Indians, in vain quest of 
my late beloved and now bewailed associate. 

He was nowhere to be found. 

The day passed, another doleful night, and another 
cheerless day and awful night. 

Day after day, night after night, week after week 
went gloomily and heavily along, and I was still alone 
and disconsolate. 

This second isolation from human society was far 
more terrible to me than the previous one. I had grown 
older, and having been confined for four years to the ex- 
clusive society of one individual, cherished the light and 
life of that individuaPs presence w^ith the sense of its 
more precious value, than if I had been among many 
people. 

To this youth of the other sex, in the mutual develop- 
ment of our ripening faculties, and budding attractions 
towards each other, doubly enhanced by our toils and 
privations, shared with each other, away from all other 
friends, I had become seriously attached — sufficiently 
BO (although wtf were so young) to have the sympathy 
honoured with the cognomen of that all absorbing pas- 
sion, the gentle, yet powerful one, of love. In truth, I 
was over head and ears in love with the late consolation 
of my exile, young Tommy Williams. 

My ardent fancy had often been enkindled with the 
fond hopes, that the day might arrive when, restored 
to friends and society, we might become a wedded, hap- 
py pair. 

Alas ! How little can we, poor blind mortals, know 



153 

■ 

of the future. We csuinot tell what will happen to ut 
from one fleeting moment to another. 

It may be, sometimes mused I, that we were ma- 
king too much progress towards manhood and woman- 
hood to be left thus alone together in the wild woods, 
devoted to each other, no eye to watch us, reposing side 
by side, in the same humble hut, and in the same couch 
at night. 

Providence, in his wisdom, may have thus snatched 
us from a state of mind, in which we should have been 
somewhat estranged from each other, through consi- 
derations of propriety. 

We should have loved, but loved in vain. 

No altar of religion, no minister of heaven, was pre- 
sent in that solitude to hallow our love with the sanction 
of the church's holy rites. 

We should have avoided each other. 

My instinctive modesty, would have compelled me 
to shrink abashed from his companionship, and what 
a life of mutual anxiety, we should have led. 

The fires of a hopeless passion would have burned 
within us, witheruig our energies, and consuming out ^ 
reason. 

We never could have been united. 

That kindly affection, which blesses all those who 
are 

'' Linked in one heavenly tie, 

Love on through all ills, and love on till they die." 



that love, which 



fr. 



13* 



1S4 

** Grows in the world's approving eyes, 
In fiiendship^s smile, and homers caress, 
Combining all the heart's sweet tiej 
Into one knot of happiness.** 

would have been, in our humble, lonely retreat, a blight 
upon our souls, sweeping over all our tenderest suscepti- 
bilities, like the burning simoom of the desert, blasting 
and utterly destroying life, love and hope. 

What had befallen my sweet boy t 

Months gloomily rolled away, and he came not 

Perchance he had been devoured by wild beasts, or 
murdered by merciless savages, as doubtless my parents 
and their neighbours were. 

It was now getting into the fifth winter of my exile. 

After all my newly awakened hopes, and growing 
prosperity, I became again a solitary hermit. 

I grew desponding, neglected the curls of my hair, 
4kid suffered them to hang dishevelled about my fea- 
tures. 

' The loss of my beloved, preyed so upon my mind, 
that I wished to die. 

What a wretched world this is! mused I, where 
"one sorrow is no sooner banished from the little home of 
our bosoms, than another, and often, a more dreadful 
one succeeds and torments us helpless mortals. 

Young as I was, I was fast becoming a misanthrope. 

I would retire to my now again lonely hut, at mid« 
day, to brood over my poignant and heartfelt griefs. 

There would I sit, upon my lowly bear skin couch ; 
^my little bands folded together in my lap, my glisten- 



f 



15S 

ing eyes cast upon the ground, meditating upon the 
loss of my friend ; tears trickling down my cheeky 
while my tender bosom heaved with sighs and sobbing. 

In such a melancholy posture I would remain for 
hours— aye, often all the afternoon, evening, and some* 
times most of the night ; until the irresistible influence 
of drowsiness, from exhausted nature, exhausted with 
mental agony and want of sleep, overpowered my fa- 
culties, and only made me dead to my waking wretch- 
edness, in order to inflict upon my slumbering senses 
most frightful visions. 

In ray dreams, all the horrid past wasnudigled with 
fancied spectacles and forms, too shocking to be related 
here ; in which my Tommy was often seen, a mangled 
corpse. 

Then again, alive, and embracing me ; now roving 
with me once more in and about the forest — and anon 
high in the air, shining with wings of light, as a cheru- 
bim of paradise. 

His fine open countenance, so often studied by me, in 
every beloved and beautiful lineament, of pleasing and 
pleased expressiveness; his ruddy cheek ; his stout arm 
and trim figure, were as vivid in my night visions, as if 
I beheld him in real flesh and blood, and in all l|i» 
wonted activity of his graceful movements. "^ 

When, late in the forenoon, I would awake from 
doubtful dreams, the reality of my loss and loneliness, 
would rush upon my shattered brain, and I closed my 
eyes in vain endeavours to woo back to my half frenzied 



156 

mind, the blessed oblivion of sleep, although that sleeljp 
might be haunted by dreams so awful. 

Then, I would go out, and looking at my fires, behold 
them dying away, with scarce an impulse to revive 
them ; and even occasionally deem that I had better let 
them fade and become extinguished ; and as my very 
existence, under the tortures of memory, had become so 
burdensome to me, it would be welcome relief to perish 
with cold, and thus escape protracted and lingering 
wretchedness, far worse than the gloom of the silent 
grave. 

Again, I would stand listlessly leaning against a tree, 
my thoughts filled with involuntary and sad recollec- 
tions of my little Tommy's features and voice ; his past 
actions and words ; while the fierce cravings of hunger 
were vainly gnawing at my vitals, and my glimmerings 
of life were demanding food, food. 

The serpent fang, grief, in my very heart*s core, re- 
solved into its influence all my other sources of an- 
guish. 

I grew weak and faint, from bare want of necessary 
sustenance to impel the circulation of the fluids within 
my system. 

My features, often viewed in the mirrored surface of 
still waters, which recent prosperity and peace, the so- 
cial joys of friendship and love, the animating influences 
of bright hopes of future pleasures, had filled up with 
the round and full proportions of robust health, and its 
roseate hue, became wan and emaciated. 

My eyes also, as I looked into the glassy surface of 



157 

the stream, showed a dimmed lustre, except as a start- 
ing tear of regret, occasionally glisteried on their sur- 
face. 

Despair was tugging at my heart-stringF. My life's 
spirit was yielding under calamity too severe for my 
gentle nature. 

My end seemed now to be really approaching. 

I hailed its welcome coming, with a smile of calm 
resignation to the sublime decrees of Heaven. 

Disease, that fatal one, which is often in the weekly 
list of mortality in cities, numbered among the others as 
consumption, but which is in verity a far different one, 
a breaking heart, withering under some fatal moral blow 
from the arm of mental affliction, had fastened its mor- 
tal fangs upon me, as I hoped, and the blissful regions 
of immortality, would soon receive my soul, rescued from 
the dire 111:5, which torment mortality upon this earth. 

Thus perishing, I had one night a vision. Methougbt 
my^ late companion appeared to me, and offering to my 
taste some unknown fruit, which shed a delicious frag- 
rance, and was of brilliant colour, invited me to par- 
take of it. 

I ate and felt restored to health and strength. 

He kissed me, and informed me that he had found 
my parents, and was going to bring them to me. 

Suddenly I awoke, and was touched with such a live- 
ly^ sense of the reality of what had just been in my fancy, 
that it was not, until rubbing my eyes and gazing around 
me at a variety of objects, feeling them, and reflecting 
upon the past, I recognized it to be all a mere dieam. 



158 

But the effect was so powerful upon my faculties, that 
I sincerely believed 1 should see my dear Tommy and 
my parents again in the world. 

Weak as I was, the faith so gently bom, and nourish- 
ed with such slender aliment, stimulated me with its 
infant hopes, to exertion. 

I crept out of my hut, renewed my searches for food, 
resumed my usual labours, gathered again provision for 
the ensuing winter, which I was once more to pass 
drearily alone, replenished my bonfires, and began to 
revive all my. former habits. 

Oh hope ! thou art often almost life itself. 

Look at the despairing wretch, heart-breaking from 
lost love, or doomed to a speedy death from disease, or 
to an ignominious one upon the scaffold. 

See him droop and fade. 

Then gaze upon him at the auspicious juncture when 
it is whispered in his dying ear — "thou shalt have 
again thy loved one,'* or " thou shalt recover from thy 
illness of body," or *' thy pardon from the scaffold has 
come," as the matter in question may be — see the flash 
of returning life and joy in the late dying one's eye, 
awakened by those precious words, and there is a happy 
illustration of the quickening and really life giving 
powers of sweet, sweet hope. 

What is life without hope 1 

And yet to enjoy hope, we must suffer. 

For the very nature of hope implies a present griev- 
ance, to escape from which we hope. 

While I was musing upon the loss of my companion. 



1&9 

the thought suddenly entered my mind, that if Indian0 
had carried him off, they might return, find my hut, 
seek me, its tenant, and carry me off also- If even thus, 
through captivity I could regain my dear little playmate, 
I should have been willing to have endured every suf- 
fering, which was to be the price of his companionship. 
But I feared he was dead. Therefore, to save my life, 
I resolved to destroy all tokens of my residence in this 
wilderness, and thus prevent the Indians' search after 
me. I accordingly applied the incendiary torch to my 
own hut, burned it to the ground, scattered the ashes 
and ruins, strewed leaves, sticks, stones and loose earth 
upon its site, prostrated my fences, and piling up their 
constituent parts, made a huge bonfire of them. Ex- 
tinguishing my fires, and relying solely upon my tinder 
box for an emergency when fire was essential to my 
necessities, I thus removed such a conspicuous evi- 
dence of human presence as a fire would be. All my 
gardens and orchards I destroyed, leaving only here and 
there, as if it was in a wild state of nature, a potato or 
corn hill, a fruit tree or berry bush. The treasure cave 
became my humble and subterranean cell, and its en- 
trance was covered by me with sticks and bushes, so as 
to appear as if there was no excavation there. 

Only with the utmost circumspection would I even 
venture above, first listening for sounds of human foot- 
steps, or human voices, or any other noise, betokening the 
presence of my own race, then cautiously peeping out 
of a crevice among the leaves and sticks, to the upper 
earth, next slowly lifting some portion of my rude roof 



160 

a little above the surface of the ground, and listening 
and looking around. 

If all was silence and apparent solitude, I crept forth 
on my hands and knees, groped around like a quadru- 
ped, and only walked erect when emboldened by the 
impunity with which I had so far progressed towards 
my object, going for food and water, or some other mat- 
ter essential to existence itself. 

This was, as I have stated, the coming fifth winter 
that 1 was' to pass in the wilderness. 

I could not possess now, the variety of food and con- 
veniences which I obtained when my vigorous, skilful 
little helpmate was with me. 

I had to forego bear's meat and mony delicacies, to 

, procure which had required even all Tommy's strength 

or skill, as the emergency happened to require, and to 

which my feeble efforts and small powers of ingenuity, 

were by no means adequate. 

My food was mostly reduced at^in, as before my first 
meeting with Tommy in the forest, to nuts, berries, 
fruit, honey, bird's or hen's eggs, potatoes and corn, and 
occasionally a taste of flsh. 

However, I begnn to put my curls in order, nnd per- 
form every one of my former duties with liveliness, un- 
der the animating inspiration of hope. 

The. winter came and went off without serious acci- 
dent, and dear spring again dawned upon the barren, 
frozen scene, and passed away. Vegetation shot forth, 
and the sixth summer blessed my abode with its genial 
presence. 



181 

In addition to the five which had gone before, three 
more whole years passed away, in almost similar occu« 
pations, amusements, and solitary musings. 

I had grown up to be a fully developed woman of 
about the age of eighteen or nineteen. 

In my isolation from all human companionship, I had 
become in mind, person, and demeanour, a scarce real 
sonable creature — more than half assimilated to the 
very brute creation. 

My hair hung down my neck, shoulders and back, 
and flowed in such profusion and length, that it almost 
was as a garment to my limbs. 

One night, I was suddenly awakened from my sleep 
by voices. ******# 

But let us, for a few minute?, break off the thread of 
this story, to look up little, lost Tommy Williams. 

Yet first, I should not omit stating, that after I had 
in some degree recovered my composure of mind, conse- 
quent on my loss of Tommy's presence, I was one after- 
noon, when the weather was too warm to be exposed 
to the sun's rays, reclining, musinc^ly and sadly^ within 
the cool shade wliich ihe foliage afforded, looking about 
me listlessly, when I perceived, a small, white rabbit 
peeping towa ds my retreat. Apprehensive of frighten- 
ing the dear, little visiter, I suspended my breath as 
much as I could, and avoided every motion, even of 
the eye, cautious not to make the least noise ; I was in 
hopes, that if it should be encouraged by impunity of 
coming and going, unscared at its first visit, it might re- 
turn once and again, and perchance, oh! blessed 

14 • 



16S 

thought, become familiarly my frequent guest. Did 
not my illustrious prototype, Robinson Crusoe, succeed 
in taming animals of a tropical climate 1 And it may 
be, that in this temperate region, somewhat of a kin- 
dred felicity may fall to my lot. For half an hour I 
continued motionless as death) although my position, 
Being rather an uneasy one, hurt my limbs and worried 
my whole nervous system excessively. Nevertheless, 
this must be borne, for sake of a consequent good, and 
with the highest gratification, I beheld the timid crea- 
ture nibble at one article of food and another, particu- 
larly green fruit, occasionally leap to and fro over every 
part of the ground near me, approach my own person, 
and at length in one spring perched upon my shoulder 
as I lay. Running over me, it went away, at its own 
leisure, undisturbed. Cautiously I stole to a little dis- 
tance after it, and perceived it frisking and playing 
about, in the vicinity, with several others of its own 
species. There I stood in trembling anxiety, until they 
had all disappeared among the shrubbery. 

After this pleasing incident, I w as particularly care- 
ful, when near my abode, to move only upon tiptoe, as 
noiselessly as practicable, in order not to frighten away 
any rabbits, or other harmless quadrupeds. 

By this means, not only rabbits, from their subterra- 
nean dwellings, but squirrels from trunks of trees, and 
even birds from their nests, ventured to bless me with 
their company ; encouraged by my silence, and other 
alluring ways, winning them into complete domestica- 
tion. Happy was I, after a while, to have them play 



163 

about my person, sit in my lap, feed from my hand, at- 
tend me in my excursions ; and at length, wherever I 
was, whether at home or abroad, I, ray tame rabbits, 
squirrels, doves, and other feathered friends from the 
branches of trees, and a variety of the inferior creation^ 
made a gay procession, all good fellows, together. 

i 



CHAPTER XI. 

HERE COMES LITTLE TOMMY WILLIAMS. 

Those persons, who have been in any degree interest- 
ed by the preceding pages, which narrate a portion of 
my own sufferings, may, perhaps, previous to their con- 
tinuing to pour their sympathies upon lone me, in the 
woods, desire to hear something of my little companion, 
whom I lost so mysteriously and unexpectedly. 

How I ascertained his fate, the kind reader, will learn 
by-and-bye. 

On the day mentioned in my narrative, when Tom- 
my had strayed out of my sight in the woods, he was 
engaged in gathering some cranberries, in a low, marshy 
ground, and putting them into a rude basket of his own 
> construction, from twigs of bu.shes. 

His person was bent down in a stooping posture, as 
he was in the act of picking up the cranberries from the 
low, creeping vines, among the rank grass, his eyes be- 



104 

ing 80 nenr the ground, that he only could see the her- 
bage, vinos and ben ie?, just around his feet, when with- 
out any previous warning", noise, or sight of moving ob- 
ject, he fell tho grasp of a person's large hand, as if from 
behitid him, suddenly seizing him by the hair. 

He scrennicd aloud, knowing from the size of the 
kand, and vigour of the grasp, that it was a far differ- 
ent person from Lucy, who thus surprised hini. 

He was instanlly lifted up in the amis of the intruder, 
who he then saw, was a tall, half naked and half clad 
in bearskin, and painted Indian, of a most ferocious as- 
pect and brawny limbs. 

His assailant, placed the broad palm of his swarthy 
hand upon Tonmiy's mouth, and stopped thus at once 
the sounds of his screaming. 

Nearly suffocated, from the length of time, in which 
the former kept his hand upon the child's mouth, not 
only preventing his articulation, but also rendering it 
impossible for him to draw a single breath, he struggled 
in his grasp, for dear life itself. 

His convulsed movements, under the horrid sen- 
sations of choking, gave him almost supernatural 
strength. 

Every muscle and physical energy in his little frame, 
was doubly strong, in a concentration of all the despair- 
ing promptings of his mind and body, upon the one 
fierce endeavour to get a single respiration. 

Oh ! that critical moment, when his face was black 
with the obstructed current of the vital fluid, his eyes, 
whose sight now grew dim, in the darkness of rushing 



165 

blood forced into them, starting from their sockets in 
wild looks of horror, and his little tongue itself, in futile 
attempts at relief, was pushing hard against the imper- 
vious barrier, through which, not a particle of air could 
enter between his lips, that a single breath, now so es- 
sential to his very existence, could be drawn, and with- 
out which, being instantaneously inhaled, he must have 
become a corpse. 

His convulsions, were most powerful, as is always 
said to be the case, when some involuntary or deranged 
impulses of the human system, as in a fit, or a death 
struggle, set the muscular powers upon one last and mo- 
mentary fling of all life strength. 

At any rate, in his dying agonies, his heels pushed 
against the savage's throat, his little fingers clung to 
the flesh of his destroyer's wrists ; their sharp nails, 
thickened and strengthened by his previous wild life with 
me at our hermitage, tearing their way into the flesh, 
and either goaded by pain, or not wishing to kill the lad 
outright, the ruthless monster of inhumanity, let him 
fall from his arms upon the ground. 

Oh ! what a joyful feehng of returning life then 
throbbed through every pulse in the boy's veins. 

He laid for a few moments helpless, gasping hard 
for breath, his little bosom heaving like the surface of a 
lake, agitated by a sudden gust of wind ; his limbs 
quivering with the tumultuous emotions awakened by 
his late surprise and terror, when he was first assailed 
by the Indian ; by his convulsive struggles for one sin- 
gle, life-sustaining breath of the free air ; by bis despair 
14* 



160 

at the vain, and unsuccessful effects of his siruggU 
for life ; and then, by (he sudden and exquisite bliss, 
when the grasp upon his lips was released, of the re- 
vulsion of hope, life, free breathing, and being permitted 
once more to look around, and not see instantaneous, 
dark death before him. 

Oh, merciful heaven ! he yet lived' and breathed. 
The recent object of his terror, the painted, wild bear* 
skin clad, fierce son of the forest, stood now before 
him, to his reviving senses, a protector, an angel of 
light. 

The recovered youth saw the savage's animated, 
sparkling eye, from which malignant triumph in cruel- 
ty shone, and that shining, looked to him like a friend- 
ly smile playing in an orb of beauty and loveliness. 

He watched the curl of the victor's lip, as his breath 
grew stronger and stronger ; and the proud exultation 
of superior strength that was thereon inscribed, glowed 
upon the child's resuscitating powers of vision, like the 
first genial ray of sunshine, in a morning of delightful 
spring, playing upon an open lawn, whose verdant hue 
betokens the approach of summer, with all its foliage 
and blossoms, its fragrant roses, green fields, smiling 
flowery meads, and all its juicy fruits. 

Yes, dark death had only rushed upon his view, to 
affright him, then as precipitately vanished, leaving to 
be recognized by his senses, instead of its gloom)^ hor- 
rours, the pleasingly contrasted calm peace of mind, 
which lives its happiness amid the cheerful feelings of 
health, and the free breathing of pure, healthy airs ; 



the eye now fixed upon the blue sky, and while, fleecy, 
fleeting clouds ; anon upon the rustling foliage of th6 
stately trees, or the variegafed landscape of hill and vaU 
ley, rock and river, and the other beautiful things of 
this world, that were in the range of sight, as all his 
own, to live among and enjoy freely once more. 

His rough and stern, yet noble looking assailant, stood 
before him in all his bold bearing, his swarthy arms 
folded, looking down upon the child's prostrate form and 
trembling feebleness, with fixed gaze, and as motion- 
less in well turned and athletic lirnb and strongly mark- 
ed feature, as though transfixed to the spot, and resolved 
into a marble statue, by some sudden touch of the po- 
tent wand of a magician, desirous of perpetuating, fot 
the world's admiration, a model of such manly seeming, 
such finished proportions of that which a warrior should 
look like — the inimitable sparkle of that animated eye, 
the expressive curl of that haughty lip, and the brow s6 
broad and high, so polished and open, so indicative of 
all that physiognomisfs, are fo ardent and enthusiastic 
in pointing to, as an index of stupenduous and compre* 
hensive intellect. 

Gathering strength, during the lapse of the minutes 
that passed while he lay upon the ground, and becom- 
ing bolder from the impunity with which he met the 
stern warrior's glances upon him, and with which, amid 
all their lightning flashes, and the embryo thunders 
which seemed to threaten from his clouded brow, ua- 
awed, he returned look for look ; the boy arorn upon his 



168 

feet, and placidly awaited the next demonstration of 
the other's superior strength. 

Thus mute, they both paused awhile, surveying one 
another^s countenances ; the Indian's alternately frown** 
ing and triumphantly smiling ; the lad's expressiDg a 
pleading for the other's mercy, a deprecation of his 
wrath and farther cruelly, and an anxioue^ trembling 
hope, that the mighty chieftain, as he really was, would 
deign to let him live. 

The captor, probably perceiving that his victim was 
disposed to be quiet now, after the severe lesson which 
be had received, and thinking to make him understand 
that his wishes were for the continuation of the boy's 
silent and passive demeanour, put bis forefinger upon 
his own lip, which the boy judged rightly as a signal 
for keeping his mouth shut, and authoritatively waved 
his hand to his captive, as if to betoken him to go quick- 
ly in a particular direction. 

The latter did not need a second intimation, but un- 
hesitatingly proceeded in the course pointed out by the 
former, and soon beheld a whole band of the red sons of 
the forest, just before him in a footpath, which he and I 
had often seen and remarked, as being no doubt an In- 
dian track, walking in single file, which is their ordina- 
ry custom in travelling. 

Their progress through thickets, rough, uneven 
grounds, and among rocks and trees, is more facilitated 
by their going thus singly, one after the other, in well 
known beaten paths, often in a country new to them. 



169 

in a narrow path now first made, than if they were to 
inarch in a promiscuous, scattered crowd. 

In the latter case, each man would have to pioneef 
his own, separate track, over the natural obstacles of the 
earth's uncuhivated surface ; but in a single file proces- 
sion, even if the course has never before been explored 
by them, the guiding member of the band, selects the 
most accessible ground, and the others, successively 
treading in his steps, render it easier and easier of travel 
for each follower. 

Tommy sadly fell into the train of this file of savages, 
and almost forgetting the helples.^, and now again eoli« 
tary girl, whom he had left behind him, amid his own 
dangers and perplexities, and being persuaded in his 
own mind, that he would soon be killed and devoured, 
seeing in his alarmed fancy, the very fires kindled for 
such a cannibal sacrifice, and musing upon the sudden- 
ness of that reverse of fortune, which had snatched him 
from his quiet, humble, though happy hermitage, and his 
charming little Lucy, and thrown him so disastrously 
into the power of a murderous band of prowling Indians, 
he resigned himself to all the horrors of his fate. 

He was driven on, and they commencing a brisk trot| 
bending their forms slightly forward, to facilitate their 
progress, their little prisoner was obliged to run quite fast 
in order to keep up with them. 

They travelled a great ways, while Tommy's thoughts 
were after a while, frequently turned upon the contem- 
plation of me, his little female companion, whom he had 
left in the wilderness. 



170 

lu course of the day, they killed two deer, which they 
cut into several portions, and divided equally annong the 
individuals present, of which there were about fifteen or 
twenty, exclusive of their prisoner. 

Some of them were covered with wild animals' skins, 
others prettily dressed out in deerhide hunting-frocks, 
mockasins and leggins, while a third portion of the com- 
pany, were entirely destitute of any garment. 

These latter were painted, many of them in a very 
grotesque manner. 

Tommy was surprised to perceive that they did not 
partake of the venison, nor indeed any thing else in the 
way of food, during the whole day. 

They halted early in the evening, and lying down 
close together upon the ground, they threw a large buf- 
falo skin over their little prisoner's body, after he was 
made to lie down among them, leaving for his mouth 
scarcely sufficient place to breathe. 

Two Indians laid down upon the extremities of the 
skin, one being upon each side of him, in order to keep 
him fastened down, by the weight of their bodies upon 
the rude coverlid, that he should not rise while they 
slept, and make his escape. 

The whole party, except Tommy Williams, soon ap- 
peared to be enjoying a sound slumber. He continued 
awake for a long time, but under the influence of night, 
the protracted silence of the party, and considerable fa- 
tigue of mind and body, also became overpowered with 
drowsiness, and speedily thereafter, was as unconscious 



171 

of his forlornness and unhappy captivity by wild In-' 
dians, as they were of the possession of the youth. 

He was awakened in the morning early, while it was 
scarcely yet daylight, by one of the band, who shook 
hina by the shoulder, and pointing to the others who 
were arising from their earth couch, and going onwards 
upon their journey, motioned gracefully with his arm 
to follow, at the same time, muttering some sounds, 
which to the child's sense addressed, were wholly unin- 
telligible. 

They travelled the whole of the next, and also the 
succeeding day, sleeping at night, as before, upon the 
ground, and the boy under the buffalo skin, confined 
by the two Indians on either side of him. 

On the way, after Tommy had been with them about 
twenty hours, they first partook of some parched corn, 
which they carried in bags ; afterwards frequently re- 
peating such practice, but they would not touch the 
deer flesh. 

I should have previously mentioned, that they had 
enkindled a fire one night, and smoked the venison, 
which they also salted, to preserve it, as Tommy rightly 
conjectured, from being tainted by the very warm tem- 
perature of that season, this provision being destined for 
a permanent source of subsistence, for themselves and 
families, when they should have reached home. 

On the evening of that third day of their journeying, 
they came in sight of smoke, ascending, apparently, in 
several different quarters, from behind a rising ground, 



ns 



w*L.:i 'TLi *rTm £Hr.i.i*?e xietf- oq the route whii 

Til! zn:i-i»tc.-. Mese rit -L.-::rt» of scoke broke npoa 
tbsir T •»•«'. *:;.:.\ i -v'-i-irci " z i-'rf iaallaxny were'sct up 
iw 'L* loi.a:ir*w 2* criciri.. tcci. niv cccd reader, never 
beard. a.:iii t;:*:^ x ::-^.\,ir\z ir.d c^ccio? and leaping*, as 
Toa r.'^Tie: 'v:::.'i'$s«^»i. and cnbAbfvneTrrmilL until von 
dKMiLrf tiTe th-* Ty>i txt.;R*, c* in Tommy's case, ill- 
fbrtODe, to b<bo4d 2. trlr>e. of these unsophisticated chil- 
dreo of nature, air. id alL '.Leir yield ings to first inipubes 
of the heart. arri« in? in sight of their hcmes^ m'hich 
Tommy judged, abd as the event pro%'ed, rightly so^ to 
be then the fact. 

Tiiey in?tanily all commenced running, as fast as 
their legs could carry them, up and over the intervening 
eminence, all the while shouting and screaming, with 
the most fervent and certainlv sincere demonstration of 
the very wildest and most extravagant joy. 

Some of them seemed literally to fly, so swift was 
their progress. 

Olhers would suddenly stop short in their mad ca« 
reer, picic up large and heavy stones, hurl them to an 
nmnzing lieight in the air, and then again scour away 
along the ground, with the speed of a whirlwind. 

The prisoner, was entirely neglected by the joyful 
throng. But so harmless did these savages appear to 
him, 80 well had they treated him, (saving and except- 
ing the delectable squeeze, which the chief gave Tom- 
my on iiis capture, by way of paternal hug,) and so 
fearful was he of being left alone to starve, and so much 



17* 

longed for some of the venison, which they bore about 
them to his knowledge, us I stated, that he hastened his 
steps after them, to accompany them into their village. 

He really conjectured, that their natural sagacity told 
them, that he would follow them, for they seemed to 
him, to possess a complete knowledge of human nature, 
and thus being near their homes, felt secure of their 
prisoner, then a little boy, and were aware of the whole 
train of reasoning, which would pass through bis 
mind. 

When he reached the top of the hill, he saw the 
whole village. 

The Women and boys, preceded by several fierce 
looking, very large, shaggy dogs, more like wild wolves, 
than the faithful companions of raai^ at his out-goings 
and in-comings, his bed and board, his fireside and long 
journeys, were all together running towards the corn- 
ing party, at the top of their speed, while the latter were 
also running to meet them. 

The huts or wigwams, about thirty, were on this side 
of a considerable sized stream of water. 

Such a chattering, and prattling of bipeds, old and 
young, barking of the canine race, shouting of the men, 
and lively display altogether of the highest, animated, 
bustling scene of domestic pleasures, he never witnessed 
before. 

It is wrong, to call the Indian a cold, stern being. 
On this occasion, at any rate, the whole population, 
were like a parcel of romping children,, just broke loose 
from school. 

IS 



174 

The utmost afTection seemed to be exhibited, in the 
meeting between the men and women, and each sex 
had long stories to tell the other, as he judged by their 
incolierent expressions, as accompanied by their anima** 
ted and easily interpreted looks and gestures. 

The s(}iui\vs and young girls, who had not papooeed 
on their shoulders, seized the pieces of deer's flesh, 
borne bv tbe newly arrived males, and ran with their 
booty, ill the greatest possible delight imaginable, to the 
wigwams. 

Tommy, supposed they had been conversing about 
him, for as he drew nigh, a woman came tip to, and 
spoke to bim, in soothing and pleasing tones of voice. 

Slie was handsome, and also dressed very tastefully, 
with a variety of shell ornaments about her ancles, and 
bracelets of the same materials around her arms and 
wrists, beads about her neck, and a sort of dressed deer- 
skin frock around her body, which came halfway down 
the leg. 

She took hold of his hand and led him into her wig- 
wam, and up to a large earthen vessel of aboriginal 
manufacture, in which was a mixture of meat, beans, 
corn and potatoes, smoking hot. Pointing her finger 
towards it; then to him, next to her mouth, and gently 
ottshing him down upon the ground, near the vessel of 
the food, she handed him a large horn spoon, with a 
wooden handle, and motioned him to take and eat. 

He did not need much urging, but seizing the spoon, 
dipped it hito the vessel, and partook freely and plenti- 
fully of what was to him then, very savoury eating. 



175 

Directly, several Indians entered, and each being fur- 
nished by the woman, with a spoon similar to the lad's, 
they joined with him in emptying the earthen vessel of 
its grateful contents. 

After eating, the woman handed the men pipes and 
tobacco, brought them a burning fagot of wood to light 
their pipes, and they soon smoked away, with the utmost 
apparent tranquil satisfaction of soul and body. While 
occupied thus, one or other of the Indians would speak, 
and they continued smoking and talking, while re- 
clining along the ground in the wigwam, until grow- 
ing drowsy, one after the other dropped asleep in the 
place, where each one respectively had happened to be, 
in some posture favourable to such a comfortable de- 
nouement. 

As the weather was warm, and Tommy considerably 
fatigued, he also fell into a sweet sleep, and did not 
awake until it was evening. 

When he aroused himself, he was alone. He went 
to the door of the hut, and saw the shining throughout 
the village of the various fires for cooking, and lights 
burning out in the open air ; and at a distance around 
them, were the whole popul9.tion. Boys were chasing 
each other, and hiding behind trees, and their shrill 
voices rung through the air, and echoed in the distant 
forest. The men and women were seated here and 
there on the ground, in every variety of posture, talking 
in lively strains. Tommy sat down in tho entrance of 
the hut, and watched their picturesque appearance, for 
abgiit a couple of hours. At the end of thc^t tim^, one 



IW 

and another would slowly and miccessivelj retreat to 
the ditfcreiit wig^wams, and an Indian, his wife, and two 
little l)oy8, coining into the hut where Tonuny was, 
they all rciircd to rest for the night. 

The bedsteads were constructed of long, straight 
liiiiUs cf trees, lying horizontally upon crcsB pieces at 
liciid, boltom and side?, fastened to upright pieces stuck 
in the ground, the who!e of which horizontal structure, 
wos only aljout two feet high from the ground floor of 
the dwelling. The frame wos covered with skins of 
buffalo and bear, which material also constituted the 
covering of the pleepers, as well ns their beds. There 
were net any pilbwp, nor any provision for keeping the 
head up higher than the rest of the body. Three bed- 
s(e:ulfi were in the wigwam, which was about twenty 
feet miuaiC) containing only one apartment. The In- 
dian and hid dusky mate, were happily ensconced from 
all the troubles of waking reality of life upon one. On 
another, slept two of the Indian boys, and on the third, 
the remaining Indian lad and tlie youthful captive, the 
beloved of one afar oif, whp was b^terly bemoaning his 
lo4H, so great a deprivation to b€fr in the solitary, wild 
forest. 

When the captive awoke in the morning, there was 
no one else to be seen in the chamber. Having laid 
down without changing his dress of bear skins, he step- 
ped immediately from his couch to the door, and beheld 
a lively scene. 

Some of the male adults were playing ball, which ar- 
ticle waS| as he afterwards ascertained it to be on er- 



177 

amiaation, portion of a stiirgeoD's head, which is elastic, 
covered with a piece of dressed deerskin. Another ball 
which he noticed, was constituted of narrow strips of 
deerskin, wound around itself, like a ball of our twine, 
and then covered with a sufficiently broad piece of the 
same material. 

In playing this game, they exhibited great dexterity, 
eagerness, and swiftness of speed. The party engaged, 
occupied an extensive surface of open ground, over 
whose whole space, a vigorous blow with the hickory 
club of the striker, would send the ball, and also to an 
amazing height. On its coming down, it was almost 
invariably caught by another player at a distance, and 
as instantly hurled from his hand to touch, if possible, 
the stril^er of the ball, who would then drop his club, 
and run, with a swiftness scarcely surpassed by the 
winds, to a small pile of stones, which it was part of the 
game for him to reach. If the runner succeeded in at- 
taining to the desired spot, before the ball touched him, 
he was safe. Otherwise, he had to resign his club to 
the fortunate thrower of the ball against him, and take 
his place to catch. The runner, by watching the com- 
ing ball, was almost always enabled to avoid its contact 
with him, by dodging or leaping, which was effected 
with all the nimbleness of one of the feline race. If that 
was effected, another person, in his own division of the 
playing party, (there being two rival divisions,) assumed 
the dropped club, to become a striker in his turn. 

Their principal object seemed to be, to send the ball 
as far as possible, in order to ensible the striker of it, to 

15* ' 



ITS 

run around the great space of ground, which was com- 
prised within the area formed by piles of stones, placed 
at intervals along the line of the ininginary circle. 

Two rival parties would thus continue in eager coo- 
test for hours, and their captive, has actually known 
them to keep up the game for several daye, regardless 
of food or drink, which, however, their fellow savage 
spectators, who became interested, would bring, and 
persuade them to partake of, in order to sustain in vigour, 
their drooping strength and spirits. When the darknesi 
of night had involved the scene, and they could no 
longer discern the boll, I hey would drop asleep in the 
very spot wliere they had stood, at the time that the 
obscurity^in the air, obliged them to suspend playing; 
and at the earliest gray of dawn, some arosf*, and imme- 
diately making the welkin ring with their shouts, thus 
awakened the others, and at it again they all went, with 
scarce a moment's cessation, until night again tempora- 
rily stopped the sport. 

It may as well here be remarked, as was subsequent- 
ly learned, that whatever these savages undertake, they 
go at with their whole heart and soul, be it war, hunt- 
ing, feasting, or playing games, of which they have a 
great variety, both athletic and sedentary. The most 
desperate gamesters, are to be found among wild, untu- 
tored sons of the forest. When their feelings once be- 
come enlisted, for the palm of victory, they'll venture 
one article of property against another, canoe, bow and 
arrows, personal articles of wear, until completely di- 
vested of clothing ; then future spoils in war, are pledg- 



179 

cd prospectively, and even existence itself is placed in 
exile riity of gambling, at the winner's command, and 
the loser will bend his head down to receive the stroke 
of the descending tomahawk, which the victor in savage 
delight of bloodthirstiness will, bury deep into the brain 
of the defeated rival in a mere trial of skill, at some 
rude, aboriginal prototype of a more refined state of so- 
cieties' card-table. 

Returning from this digression, upon the general na- 
ture of Indian habits, we will resume the thread of our 
narrative. 

The boys were amusing themselves with bows and 
arrows, shooting at a mark, or birds, at which they were 
exceedingly expert. 

It really appeared to Tommy, that there was perfect 
happiness among those simple people, both old and 
young, male and female. At least, they apparently en- 
joyed all the earthly felicity, which our very human 
nature, as subject to the vicissitudes of the seasons, to 
ordinary accidents, to natural infirmities and weak- 
nesses, will allow of. They scarcely ever ate without a 
sharp appetite. They slept soundly, owing to their 
fatigu3 and freedom from care. As to the latter, they 
seemed to know as little of its corroding pangs, as the 
very brute creation. They were not under as many 
restraints, as we in refined society are ; following their 
natural and unsophisticated first impulses, from one mo- 
ment to another. When an Indian was awakened at 
early dawn, by the influence of the morning's light 
upon his refreshed frame, he rose from his buffalo-skin 



180 

couch upon the ground, or humble pallet, walked forth 
into the open air, and if it was summer, went to the 
nearest brook to quench his thirst, and bathe his limbs 
in its cooling waters. Covered only with a bearskin, 
which had been put under no other manufacturing pro- 
cess than drying, after it had been neatly taken from 
the animal's body, put on to the wearer, with the hair 
inside, he was quickly divested of all garment to bathe. 

Sometimes, if not otherwise engaged, he would re- 
turn from the brook, slowly to his hut. On his way 
back, he would gaze about listlessly in every direction, 
at the sky, the ground, the forest, the lawn, the village. 
Then perchance, he would betake iiimself to putting on 
a different garb. Even this simple object would absorb 
his entire faculties. In civilized society, we hastily re- 
sume our habiliments, which we find as left the night 
previous, upon the chair beside our place of repose. But 
the Indian — ^look at the following picture of an Indian at 
his toilet, when desirous to make himself a fop. 

The important matter commences with the greatest 
preparations^ 

He has his long feathers for his head, bracelets of tin 
and tinsel for his arm<, breastplates of metal, moccasins, 
legging, hunting frock, paint and brushes. 

A fashionable belle, of refined cities, with her rouge 
and pomatum, is but a negligent slut, to a male Indian's 
pains and industry, art and patience in decking out his 
person for a show. He has the juices of different ber- 
ries for colouring, also various earths and pounded stones 
of several hues^ to exhibit vermilion, blue, green and 



181 

yellow. He seats himself Upop the ground. Another 
person sits before him, the paints and brushes upon flat 
stones and shells around him. The assistant bedaubs 
his friend. The colours are laid on in lines, figures and 
patches. The subject of the painter's skill, occasionally 
runs to look at his face in the glassy, mirrored surface 
of water near by, or refers the question of his aspect to a 
third spectator. 

Perhap3 a dozen persons gather around, and the im« 
portant topic of the figuring upon the face and body, is 
fully discussed. 

The debates in a British Parliament, the grave disi 
quisitions of a venerable American Senate, the profound 
investigations and display of legal acumen and learned 
lore of jurisprudence, in a court of King's Bench, or 
a Chancery, are idle babble to the momentous affair of 
deciding (judging from the emotions exhibited) in an 
Indian's dressing chamber, whether this degree of col- 
ouring, or that collection of figures is most elegant and 
approm'iate to the coming occasion of war or festival. 

Be it war, the design is to become represented as fe- 
rocious as possible. All the native and keen ingenuity 
of the Indian character is bent to the point. All the 
powers of mind, in the various tributes of wise opinions 
from the collected sages, warriors and women of the 
tribe, are concentrated upon the red ring made around 
an eye, or the imitated gash beneath an under lip. 

One Warrior wishes to represent a tiger. His mouth| 
eyes, ears, and breast must be painted to resemble that 
animaL Hour after hour passes, paint is laid on, then 



1S2 

taken off as not right. A thousand ^leculations and 
theoric- are formed, and the council areiis earnest about 
the marks and showings forth of the painted counte- 
nance, as if it were a matter of life and death, or a na- 
tional atfair. 

The whole day may be exhausted in the dressing of 
a favourite chieftain. Night approaches. Does he un- 
dress and go to Ijed 1 No. He gently reclines upon his 
lowly couch, in all his finer}', sleeps, in one posture for 
fear of disturbing his so far arranged toilet, quietly until 
dawn, then rises in all his glor}' and gaudiness, and is 
soon ready for the enterprise in hand, which, whether it 
be to head a brave band, in a hostile assault against the 
enemy, or to sit down at the place of feasting and re- 
joicing, is entered upon with equal ardour and alacrity. 

The chief looks down at the trimmings and trappings 
of his ancles, and at his bracelets, shakes his head to 
feel how the beads hanging from his nostrils set, leaps up 
and down to hear the rattle of his metal plates, pendant 
eagle quills and shells distributed on different parts of 
his dress, throws out his arms, assumes various pbltures, 
bends in every attitude, walks before his people, and lis- 
tens with pride, and satisfied vanity, to their exclama- 
tions of approval and admiration of his fine features, 
ejliowy apparel, and painted appearance, 

This is one of the spectacles in an Indi9.p village. 
Another, is that of the canoes upon the water, light and 
airy, made of bark, with picturesque paddles, and seated 
in the canoes, men, women and boys, movirig to and fro 



183 

On the bosom of the waters, or fishing with deerskin 
lines and horn hooks. 

Also may be seen, a dozen or two of bathers, or swim- 
mers, men, women and children, promiscuously sporting 
in the cooling waters. The distances, which even wo- 
men and children swim, is truly amazing. They can 
with ease, untired, perform a mile or two of uninterrupt- 
ed swimming, in 9. race of rivalry, or single, for the 
mere apparent pleasure of the exercise. It is not cor- 
rect to suppose that Indians are only savages, ferocious, 
stem and cannibal like, with no redeeming good qualN' 
ties. Every virtue of hospitality, kindness of heart,. un- 
sophisticated benevolence and good feeling ; the most 
striking instances of pure and devoted affection, between 
the sexes, and that which arises from relationship, are 
common in every tribe. Their thoughts are not com- 
pletely absorbed in amassing property. They give a 
loose to heartfelt, childlike felicity, and freedom from 
care, and leave most of the future to a superintending 
Providence, or Great Spirit, whose constant guardian- 
ship, they firmly believe in. 

Some of these artless children of nature, literally live 
from hand to mouth, taking " no thought for the mor- 
row." Others again are more provident, and fulfil a 
variety of fixed regulations. But nowhere among them, 
are there prisons for the incarcerations of their fellow 
mortals, or a scaffold on which to sacrifice them in the 
wretchedness of an ignominious death. They have 
neither lawyers, nor courts, chicanery, nor horrors of 
a dungeon. 



184 

Yet, the wildest freaks occasioDaUy break out, aftl 
little Tommy Williams, witnessed some extraordinary 
and even detestable actions, which would shock a re- 
fined mind even to think of, and if enacted in a Chris* 
tian community, would convulse it with horror. Tales, 
not to be interwoven into the texture of this production 
might be told, which would make the hair to eland on 
end. 

Sometimes, the passions of one member of the tribe 
arc aroused against another. The two persons meet in 
hostile attitude, and often fight until the death of one of 
the combatants terminates the contest. Other mem- 
bers of the tribe frequently interfere, and prevent by 
force a fatal catastrophe. A quarrel will be taken up 
by a slain Indian's surviving next relative, and in suc- 
cession, many deaths may thus occur. 

Although^captives for a time, bound hand and foot, 
and the human sacrifice at the stake, are instances of 
substitutes for prisons and scaffolds, yet, generally speak- 
ing, the whole code of uncivilized man's laws mciy be 
resolved into that one powerful principle of the human 
heart, revenge. 

A circumstance occurred, on this first morning of lit* 
tie Tommy Williams' captivity in the Indian village, 
which gave a novel turn to his thoughts and sensa* 
lions. 

Among the women who were on the lawn before the 
huts, there was one, who stopped in her walk to look at 
the unhappy, little priscner. She came near to h!m. 
He thought he recognized, in her lineaments^ features 



185 

which were well known to him. He stared at her* 
She was habited like the other squaws, but had blu6 
eyes, and a fair complexion, although much sunburnt. 
Suddenly she threw up her hands, and in the prisoner's 
native language, exclaimed, " Good God of Heavens, 
if it is not really, little Tommy Williams !" And in 
the voice which uttered those words, he remembered 
the familiar tones of the mother of his own darling, 
Lucy Ford, as he called me, whom, as the reader may 
remember, both Tommy and I had supposed to have 
been one of the victims in a general massacre of the 
settlement, which from appearances we had to a certain 
extent, but too truly conjectured. 



CHAPTER XIL 

Hair-breadth 'scapes, by flood and field. 

Shakspearc/ 

Unnoticed by the Indians, my mother withdrew, 
with her newly-found fellow prisoner, to a retired spot 
among the high bushes, where seated upon a rock in 
the shade, and refreshed by the fragrant breeze which 
came to their gratified senses, laden with the precious, 
aromatic odours of wild flowers, and a mingling of pleas* 
ing influences upon their perceptions, she related to him 

16 



188 

the following thrilling details of her captivity and suf- 
feringF. 

She first inquired concerning the cause of his present 
situation, heard all about it, and about me, her own 
Lucy, whom as well as Tommy, she had supposed to 
have been dead ; was highly agitated upon learning 
that I was probably still living, and alone in the woods ; 
and then proceeded with her own extremely interesting 
narrative, amid the telling of which, the speaker and 
listener, heard the noises made by the Indians around 
them, in their sports and labours. 

You may remember. Tommy, how prosperous and 
happy we were on that fatal morning, when my little 
Lucy and you, and the other children, had gone into the 
woods for berries, and were lost, as you have stated^ 
That idiot of a fellow, old Johnny, was hobbling about 
from one house and one person to another, talking his 
nonsense, and laughing alone at it. We had missed 
you all the forenoon, and wondered why you did not 
return. Amid our misgivings, we were really aggrava- 
ted by that foolish wretch, old Johnny's trifling. At 
every serious word spoke, and dreadful foreboding sug- 
gested, the creature would break in upon our talk, with 
his " they said, she said that nobody did it. Yes, Mr. 
Nobody. A very naughty fellow ;" and amid his rav- 
ings seemed to be something ominous. 

The day passed, and your father came towards even- 
ing to inquire, if we had seen any of his children. 

" Right era, diddle em," answered Johnny, " I heard 
tVi« death watch at my pillow, all last night.** And 




187 

the fellow's trifling seemed to affect us, as if his partial 
insanity, or chance observation of some deed of horror, 
gave him secrets not conjectured by our reasoning. 

Your father said, that his, and his neighbour Jones' 
two elder boys had been missing all day, and they were 
45upposed to have gone into the woods after berries, but 
bad not been heard of, since they left home. 

The missing children were altogether eight in num- 
ber. There were Lucy, you and the two Jones made 
four, and neighbour Townsend's two girls and two 
boys. 

Your father being somewhat anxious about such mys- 
terious absence, black Ben and Jim Crawford, my hus- 
band, and some other persons, went in search of you to 
the part of the woods where you were supposed to have 
entered. Only to think, that all this time, as you have 
told me, poor little Lucy in the woods was seeking a 
place of shelter, and was thinking that we had given 
her up, and sitting around our supper table. How could 
she have deemed so lightly of our love 1 

They spent two hours after night -fall in vain search, 
when your mother burst into my house, to which she 
had hastened in the darkness of the night alone, and 
came running to me in the room, where 1 was sitting in 
suspense of mind, bringing the news that James Jones 
had returned, at that late hour, with a dreadful story, 
that he and the other children were peacefully pickkig 
raspberries in the woods in the morning, when a huge 
wolf appeared among them, seized his little brother Bob 
in its mouth, bit it, and tore his flesh with its teeth, 



188 

while its hapless, little victim screamed most piteously 
to hear, and he and the other six children ran off in dif- 
ferent directions, each one to save himself or herself, as 
he or she best could. That be was left alone, and tried 
to find the way home, but wandered all day, and until 
after dark, in vain search for a sight of the fields and 
house of his nativity. That at length he came to a 
pond, which he had recognized, as one which he often 
swam and fished in, and by pursuing a well-known 
track, by means of fences, orchards and lields, he reached 
his home in safety. 

Your mother, continued my parent to Tommy, com- 
municated all this to me in such an agitated manner, 
half out of breath and excessively frightened, that I 
could scarcely comprehend her words, but when I did 
get at the drift of it, I flew to the side of the apartment, 
where on a nail was suspended a horn, whose use was 
to sound, when one or more of the members of the family, 
being at a distance at work, awaited such a summons 
home to a meal, quickly snatched it down, and blew 
loudly upon it, in order to call back my husband ; for I 
feared lest the wolf, and other wolves who probably ac- 
companied it, might also attack Mr. Ford, and devour 
him. 

I also deemed it necessary, that he should be made 
acquainted, as speedily as possible, with the circumstance 
of young Jones' returning, and all the details of his story, 
Bob's being in the wolf's power, and the dangers which 
threatened Lucy and the other children, as well as Mr. 
Ford himself, that the whole neighborhood should ba 



189 

aroused, and plenty of armed force sent out, in pursuit 
of the wolves, and if possible too, in rescue of the sur- 
vivers from the ferocious fangs of the beasts of prey. 

I blew several blasts upon the horn, whose far sound- 
ing, musical echoes, in the otherwise still night, undis- 
turbed, save by the whip-poor-will's melancholy note^, 
rang through the air, and reverberated among the hilisi 
and along through the distant fields and forests. 

In addition to the perils of wild beasts, that storm too, 
which caused poor Lucy so much su fieri ng, on the first 
night of her solitude in the woods, as you have recounted 
to me, was now rising, and my mind was much disturbed 
by the united causes of the children's absence, the story 
of James Jone? concerning the wolf, the dreadful ex- 
tremity and probable death of his poor little brother 
Bob, and apprehensions for my dear husband's expo- 
sure, amid the darkness of night, to the wolves and the 
rising tempest. 

After a few blasts upon the instrument, I had the 
satisfaction to hear shouts, which I had no doubt, pro- 
ceeded from Mr. Ford and his fellow seekers after the 
lost children. 

But I could not ascertain whether the shouts were 
those of joy and triumph, at their having discovered the 
precious objects of their anxious search, or not. Per- 
chance, thought I, they are merely their replies to the 
far sounding horn, which my woman's eagerness end 
trembling solicitude had waked from its quiet slumbers 
upon the wall, to make it sound thus through the 
neighbourhood, and which had recalled the seekers fron^ 

16* 



190 

the woods, they supposing that the children had re- 
turned home, and which fact I was thus announcing to 
them. 

Soon, their continued shouts were heard, less and 
less distant, then still nigher and nigher, until mingled 
with united shouts, we could recognize the respective 
voices of the returning party, loudly talking, as they 
approached quite near. 

We listened intently, in hopes of being relieved from 
our distressing perplexity, with regard to the children's 
fates, by hearing their shrill tones, but did not perceive 
that there was any speech, except that of my husband's, 
and the negro Ben, and Jim Crawford. 

Yet the children might be in company, and mute, 
through fatigue and fright. 

Then we endeavoured to catch some words, which 
might indicate any discovery they had made, although 
we scarcely dared to listen, lest unwelcome tidings might 
be revealed. 

Nevertheless, there was only a confusion of sounds, 
among which, when the party had gained the immediate 
vicinity of our dwelling, and in the glimmering from 
our candles could ascertain the persons of the speakers, 
I distinguished the words which sadly removed our 
doubts, a':id fully confirmed the gloomiest of our fore- 
bodings. 

There, were the only words distinctly heard by me, 
epoken by one or another of the party. 

"Yes — no doubt home — the hern — glad they are 
found — poor children — ^what they must have suBered-— 



191 

let's hear — ^hushl" and my husband was heard to ex- 
claim as I stepped from the porch to meet his dear foot- 
steps, while some of my children followed me, talking 
^mong themselves, " yes, that's my little Lucy's voice. 
Thank God ! she is safe," and the next moment the 
delighted father, doomed so soon ta be so distressedly 
disappointed, clasped my stretched forth hand in his af- 
fectionate grasp, snatched me to his bosom and pressed 
my throbbing heart ardently to his, in the exquisite ar- 
dour of his joy at his Lucy's supposed safety. 

He inquired of me, with a hurried, anxious manner, 
" where is my Lucy, where is she, dear, little Lucy, »ay 
mother 1" (the latter term being an endearing expression 
of his, with which he was wont to address me always.) 

I looked not into his face. I answered him not. I 
could not. I dreaded the terrible effect upon his mind 
of annihilating by one cruel word, all his newly awa- 
kened and evidently much cherished hopes. 

My own heart was too full for speech. 

I only let go his hand, which had still held mine, so 
warmly pressing mine, in fond, conjugal affection, and 
expression of mutual sympathy with me, in his supposi- 
tion of our little daughter being safely returned, and as 
he was withdrawing from me, I threw my arms about 
his neck, and wept bitter tears. 

" Where is she ? where is Lucy 1" he continued to 
repeat in fearful tones of eagerness, which frequently 
reiterated, and which, at each iteration, still remaining 
unanswered, becoming more and more earnest, rose at 



193 

length into notes of fierce wrath and increased loudness 
and vehemence. 

"Show me my girl, my daughter. Who dares to 
keep my child from me, my little darling 1 Why all 
this gloomy silence 1" 

He flung me from him, as the neighbours gathered 
around with lights in their hands. "What means all 
this, woman 1" inquired he, flashing, from under knitted 
brows, most terrible glances, which were revealed to 
sight, as the torches, which the spectators bore, glared 
amid the surrounding darkness upon many tear filled 
eyes. 

" Is she not here 1" he questioned in almost a shriek, 
with frightful energy of voice and demeanour. 

" My daughter, my darling daughter," continued to 
come from his lips, in such shouts^ that it seemed as if 
his brain was becoming inflamed with horrid insanity, 
in which he madly imagined that his daughter could 
hear the summons, and be recalled to his arms from the 
distance where she may have been then perishing in 
the jaws of a wild beast, or already a mangled corpse, 
or else about to die from exhaustion or fright. 

" Where is Lucy f" he cried. " I will have my Lucy, 
Lucy, Lucy, Lucy," he still shouted, and then snatch- 
ing a torch from the hands of the negro, he ran like a 
bounding tiger, fearful to behold in his ferocity of de- 
portment, to succour his offspring from the merciless 
prowlers of the forest. 

" Lucy, Lucy," were his words yet heard, as he ran 
onward, and the sound ringing through the night air. 



Ids 

echoing among the hills, reverberating again and agaio^ 
and returning upon my ear in heart sickening influence, 
while his torch gleamed more and more dimly, through 
the distant forest. 

He continued rushing along, leaping over all obsta- 
cles, still shouting his darling's name, and was soon lost 
to sight in the woods. 

Most of the spectators, being netirly every inhabitant 
in the settlement, male and female, followed in his foot- 
steps, urged on by painful curiosity and warm sympathy 
for a father's phrensy, at the despair of losing his little, 
favourite daughter, mingled with the more selfish but 
not less honourable feelings of regard in some of their 
bosoms, for their own offspring, who were in a similar 
peril from wild beasts, famine and exposure. 

They had taken in prudent caution, several rifles and 
some ammunition. 

The pursuers returned in successive parties during 
the night. First, the smaller children quitted the chace, 
and after going a little distance, wended homeward 
their wearied footsteps. Then the larger children came, 
next the women. Then came the single men, all ex- 
cept the faithful negro Ben ; and the report was that 
they could not find aught of the children ; and at last 
there returned Mr. Williams, and Mr. Jones, who had 
discovered all the children except Lucy, and you. Tom- 
my; and they also brought heme the shoes of your little 
brother, which had been shaken off his feet, when the 
wolf had destroyed him. 

They told me, that they had seen my husband goingr 



194 

deeper and deeper into the woods, the negro in pursuit, 
but unable to keep up with him ; and he must have 
taken a different direction from that which you and 
Lucy were in, or else he would have found you, as he 
went far enough. 

When I had heard the whole of the particulars, my 
anxiety for my husband knew no bounds. 

Give me a torch, cried I, half frantic, I myself 
will seek my husband. He has lost his senses, and 
will perish. Now he shall see that he has a faithful 
and loving wife, who will risk her life for his. He is 
the father of my children, and oh, God ! I cried, look- 
ing up to heaven, protect me in seeking him. 

Two of the men, Mr. Jones and your father, over- 
come with pity for my distraction, and fearing that I 
would perish, ran after me and seized me, and as they 
could not persuade me to return, they ventured to ac- 
company me. 

I had not proceeded far, before I fell exhausted, from 
excess of fatigue of body and agitation of mind, and 
was carried home in the arms of your father, an almost 
insensible burden and more dead than alive. 

Being safely conveyed to my house, I was put into 
bed, and then a fever came upon me, which totally 
deprived me of strength, and rendered me partly deli- 
rious. 

Jones had continued in pursuit of my husband, and 
your father also went back for the same object, after he 
bad left me. 
They at length, at daylight on the next morning^i 



id5 

saw Ben, the negro at a distance. He was bending and 
looking down at something, and as they apprehended, 
they perceived that he was supporting on his knee, the 
inanimate form of my husband. 

They had all been exposed to the storm, and Ben 
said, that after having lost sight of Mr. Ford for some 
time, he heard him shout. He ran towards the spot, 
and saw Mr. Ford, still bearing in the daylight the now 
useless torch, which in his craziness he was unaware 
of, running, and heard him say, as he came up to him, 
" the wolf, the wolf." 

Mr. Ford, unarmed as he was, with no other weapon 
than his torch, was running up to the flying wolf, heed- 
less of auffht but ^thoughts of his child. At that in- 
stant, Mr. Ford, blinded by his eagerness to get at ihe 
wolf, in his forward, swift progress, struck his forehead 
against the projecting, lower limb of a tree, and fell 
senseless, while at the same moment, Ben was levelling 
his rifle at the beast, which he shot through the heart, 
killing it instantaneously. 

He then ran to the rescue of Mr. Ford, and was sup- 
porting him upon his knee, when thus he was found by 
Mr. Jones and your father. 

They brought my husband home, after he had a little 
revived, but his complete sense of recollection did not 
return, until for an hour at least after he had been with 
me at home. 

When my delirious sensations had some what subsided, 
I arose and found him to be lying upon a bed in the ad- 



196 

f 

joining apartment, his head bound up where he had 
been struck by the tree. 

We had no physician in the settlement, and I feared 
for my husband's life, so much had he been injured by 
. the severe blow which he had received. 

He several times attempted to rise, declaring that he 
would not cease to roam through the woods, in search 
of his little favourite Lucy, whom he had always loved 
with an excessive fondness, until he either discovered 
her alive, or else should perceive some remains of her 
dead body or clothing. 

But on getting out of bed, he was so weak from loss 
of blood and pain^ and so stiff from the immense fatigue 
he had undergone, in running to the utmost extent of 
his speed all night, over hill and dale, through bush 
and brier, over rock and rivulet, among marshy pools, 
and up and down craggy precipices, only stopping to 
examine tangled thickets, or scrutinize the interior of 
rocky caverns and crevices, that he fell to the floor, ut- 
terly unable to help himself. 

He was helped into bed, but with all the energy of 
his powerful voice, he commanded every person to leave 
him to himself, and go in search of his child, or that else 
his curse, a father's curse, should light upon the inhu- 
man wretches, who would leave such a sweet little girl 
to perish in the forest a prey to famine, storms or wild 
beasts, while they were lolling in their seats in a com- 
fortable home. 

** Begone," exclaimed he, in tones of thunder^ "or 
my heaviest curse be upon ye.'* 



197 

To humour the distracted parent, he was left awhile 
alone in his chamber. 

The day passed, and the second night of your and 
Lucy's absence came. 

" Yes," here interrupted Tommy, who had wept at 
the story, addressing Mrs. Ford, " that night I was 
awake in the woods, and as Lucy afterward told me, 
she was almost dying with excruciating agonies from 
the effects of having eaten too many berries, in her 
famished state, lying upon the cold, damp ground, in 
that second, horrid night of her being alone in the 
woods." 

Ah ! but Tommy, my child, resumed my mother, 
only listen to the still more tragic scene which next 
set in upon us. That was a night of horror and desola- 
tion, far exceeding the preceding one, as well to us at 
home, as to poor, little Lucy in the woods. 

"Go on, go on," hurriedly replied the listener. 

I was just enough recovered to be able to walk 
about, and was listening to my husband's piercing 
groans, and anguished exclamations about his child ; 
when at midnight, amid the stillness and darkness, we 
suddenly were alarmed by a new danger. We heard 
the loudly ringing warwhoop of a band of invading 
savages. Such frightful yells, oh God ! it was like a 
thousand tigers, howling at once in sight of their in- 
tended prey, or rather like a host of hell's demons, broke 
loose from the bottomless pit. 

Yes, Tommy, it was these very men, who are now 
playing ball, and sporting themselves in the water, the 

17 



' 198 

sunshine, and the shade, all around us, so seemingly 
like innocent children, whose loud shouts of mirth and 
apparent unconsciousness of guilt, we hear, while we 
talk of their atrocities. 

To return to that awful night. The next moment, 
the murderous wretches rushed in upon us, through the 
door and windows. 

I ran for vain help into my husband's room. I threw 
myself by his side, and screamed, the Indians, the In- 
dians. 

He arose in the bed to a sitting posture. Two tall, 
hideous looking, red painted monsters burst in upon us, 
ran up to the bed, raised their tomahawks, while I 
threw my arms around my husband's foiTU, as much to 
shield him from the death blows, as to protect myself. 

Tb^, whizzing, sharp weapon of them both, descended 
at the same moment upon my husband's head, and 
cleft his skull asunder. 

Here, my beloved relative discontinued speaking to 
Tommy, her utterance grew choked. She burst into 
tears, wrung her hands in mental anguish at the horrid 
recollections which the narration of the ^particulars to 
Tommy, renewed in her memory. Her fellow prisoner 
wept in sympathy but spoke not. 

Oh ! she then resumed, how can I sit here, and 
recount that dreadful catastrophe, and those very mur- 
derers laughing, and talking in strains of joy within my 
hearing. 

But vengeance is imto God^ My peace and happi- 



199 

ness for life are destroyed, and until you bad communi- 
cated to me the astonishing tidings, that Lucy was in 
the land of the living, I had sincerely desired to die, be- 
lieving that there did not exist here below, one earthly 
tie to make existence tolerable. 

After a considerable lapse of time, the extreme vio- 
lence of Mrs. Ford's grief, seemed to have subsided, 
and she thus pursued her affecting narrative. 

One of the murderers of my husband seized my 
ai-rn, and violently dragged me off of my bed on to the 
floor, and along it and the entry, into the ground in 
front, and there left me alone. 

I rushed back into the house to get my children, 
who were left me after Lucy's loss. 

Ah ! I heard their screams, and then knew that the 
savages were butchering them. 

As I was rushing towards the apartment where they 
were, a savage came out, seized me, again dragged me 
out of doors, while the Indians came rushing from the 
house. 

They tied me fast to a tree. Then I beheld them 
scampering away in the direction of your father's 
house. 

In a few moments after they had gone, I beheld our 
cottage in flames, to which no doubt, they had applied 
the incendiary torch. 

Within my own dwelling, save the crackling of the 
fire, all was still. Not a sound came from it. The 
screams of my children were hushed, no doubt into the 






200 

eternal silence of death. The flames rolled along the 
ceilings, curled up from the tops of the windows, and 
came out of the doors and chimney." 

Ah !")iere again Tommy interrupted the narrator, 

how truly Lucy and I conjectured the shocking cause 
of the appearance of the ruin, which we beheld, when 
we accidentally wandered from our hermitage, to the 
spot where we had been born." 

Yes, my child, continued my mother, "you were 
but too right in your forebodings. 

Well, the smoke sometimes was blown directly into 
my face, which tied as I was to the tree, I could not 
avoid. It nearly ssuflfocated me. The heat of the fire 
loo, almost scorched me. At length, our beloved home 
was wrapped in one tumultuous sea of rolling flame 
and smoke, and hapless I, was compelled to witness its 
destruction, while the slaughtered bodies of my dear 
husband and children, were also consuming in the 
midst of my furniture, all my cherished articles of pro- 
perty, and my only place of shelter. 

Shortly afterwards, I heard the demons yelling in (he 
vicinity of your father's house. Screams of the inmates 
also arose upon the night breeze, mingled with the 
savage and triumphant shouts of their bloodthirsty as- 
sailants, who were no doubt tomahawking them in cold 
blood. 

Flames soon also shot forth from that building, and 
I could easily imagine that the awfiil tragedy which 
had been acted before my eyes, was i enewed at your 
house. 



i 



SOI 

" Then my own parents, brothers and sisters must 
all have perished too !" exclaimed little Tommy, inter- 
rupting Mrs. Ford and clenching his little fist, "and by 
these very barbarous wretches, whose voices I now 
hear, and they enjoying themselves in happy pas- 
times.'' 

I fear, was the reply, that they were all destroyed, 
for I have never seen or heard of them since. 

The little orphan listener kneeled and prayed aloud, 
that God would make him grow strong, and enable him 
to gratify his revenge upon the destroyers of his family. 

His elder friend chided him, and bade him leave all 
to God, quoting from scripture, the words " Vengeance 
is mine, I will repay saith the Lord. 

The unhappy youth then burst into tears, and my 
mother, hoping to assuage the violence of his justifiable 
lamentations for the loss of his parents, brothers and 
sisters, by diverting* his mind to other incidents, thus 
resumed. 

Directly afterwards, the savage yells were renewed 
at the house of Mr. Jones. Screams of the inmates 
then succeeded, and after them followed the bright 
blaze of their burning dwelling, and all was silence 
there. 

Not long was I permitted to remain a sad spectator 

of the awful conflagiation of the settlement, for the 

Indians returned to me, bearing bleeding scalps in their 

reeking hands, as proud trophies of their savage triumphs, 

while human blood, the blood of my own kind husband, 

dear children, and loved neighbours and friends streamed 

17* 



£02 

from their tomahawks over their forms, and was looked 
upon by them with the highest apparent satisfaction. 

They untied me, and made me accompany them 
on foot, across the hill, in a direction south from the 
now burning settlement. We travelled all night, and 
when the blessed light of the morning dawned upon 
the scene, we were in the wild woods, the scenery of 
which was entirely new and unknown to me, it being 
at a greater distance from my home, than I had ever 
travelled before. After several days and nights' jour- 
neying, we reached this place. Here my mother 
finished. 

The two prisoners, began to consult upon means of 
escaping from their accursed tyrants, and how they 
could trace out the solitary abode of poor me, the little 
exile in the woods. They considered that they must 
be a great way from their former home, and would have 
to encounter privations and sufTeikigs in their travel, 
which perhaps w^ould entirely overcome them. Never- 
theless, they did not despair of being enabled, by some 
means or other to get away, and by much labour and in 
the course of many weary wanderings in the space of 
weeks, and perchance months, to trace out my solitary 
abode, 

What will not a mother's affections cause her to un- 
dertake ? She said that she only lived for her daughter. 
She bad lost every thing else that had been precious to 
her, house and home, property, husband, and all chil- 
dren except me. 

And Tommy Williams too. He loved me. Our 



tOi 

mutual sufTerings in the wild woods, shared only be« 
tween him and me, we being all the world to each other; 
no other society, no other human form or voices to be 
seen or heard by us, we being the whole time together, 
all day and every day, all night and every night, en.oy- 
ing no artificial comforts or pleasures, nothing to divert 
our minds from listening to each other's voices, looking 
into each other's eyes, and wholly dependant upon each 
other for the very necessaries of existence from one hour 
to another, and for suggestions which were begotten 
and born, amid the collisions of our too little inexpe- 
rienced minds could we have done otherwise than 
have loved each other, young as we were, with our 
whole souls, hearts, and thoughts? Thus the boy's 
love to me, conceived and fostered under such peculiar 
and endearing circumstances, added to a mother's afTec* 
tions, these two powerfal principles of parental devotioD| 
and a youth's heart's love, urged them to my lescue. 

It being the duty of my mother, as forced upon her 
by the Indians, to assist in their labours, she withdrew 
to a neighbouring brook, on whose shelving bank of yel- 
low sand, she kindled a fire, under a large clay pot, with 
the dry sticks, twigs and leaves, which were naturally 
scattered about the uncultivated ground, among the 
bushes and trees. 

She called two Indian girls to her, who were about 
fourteen years of age. They had no other artificial 
covering upon their dusky persons, except a few folds 
of the trader's muslin around their waists. Their long 
black hair hung down about their necks, shoulders and 



S04 

back, their bright eyes being of a similar hue, their 
eyebrows correctly and nicely arched, as if pencilled by 
a scientific delineator of female beauty, their slender, 
graceful, and symmetrically shaped forms, light, active, 
ever in motion, and at every posture and changeful 
attitude developing new and just budding charms, and 
attractive expressions of limb and feature. 

Their complexions were like their fellow-members of 
the tribe, inclining to dark. But their teeth shone 
brilliantly white, large and even. There was also, on 
the cheek and full lip of each maiden, a deep, natural, 
roseate healthy glow of the pure, vital current of the 
veins, which no rouge of the Parisian belle, could at all 
rival, in its simple, yet irresistible fascinations. Every 
limb was a model for a statuary's sculptured marble 
Venus de Medicis; its full and graceful swell filled up 
to the proportions of robust, ruddy health, although it 
was the health of feminine delicacy. There was no- 
thing wanting to make the picture complete but sufid- 
ciency of dress. Yet, if it be true, that " nature when 
unadorned, is most adorned," then were they adorned 
indeed, even with the simple garb, above described. 

And their sweet, girlish voices too ! oh heavens ! 
what soft music. The tones were like the nicest and 
most delicate touches of the gentle, summer zephyr, in 
a still midnight, upon the exquisitely susceptible chords 
of the ^olian harp, when the scarcely perceived sound, 
first lisps its breathing birth to the listener's raptured 
sense, then rising, in gradually swelling loudness, rings 



205 

upon the attention with thrilling effect, and making one 
forget this world's perplexing woes. 

Such heaven inspired feelings, the tones of those In- 
dian girl's voices, awakened in young Tommy William's 
bosom, when he heard them talking to each other, upon 
that open lawn, and answering to my mothers' call, 
as they approached the yellow sandy bank of that ro- 
mantic, little stream, where she was plying busily her 
culinary operations. Every nerve in his system was 
harmoniously responsive to the heart-enlivening accents, 
which waibled from their pretty, pouting lips, and he 
deemed it were a paradise of bliss, to stand forever thus, 
upon that softly yielding green sod, in the summer 
morning air, inhaling the fragrance upon his senses, 
from the smiling flowery meads, blooming bushes and 
sweet scented shrubbery, gazing in rapture upon, and 
listening to the melodious prattle of those lovely little, 
primitively dressed, merry, skipping, happy Indian 
maids, seeming more like beautiful plumaged birds of 
the air, fluttering from spray to spray, in their youthful 
and innocent gladsomeness, or like angels of light, mo- 
mentarily descended fro.n heaven to enchant mortals, 
than like gross things of this earth, subject to mortal 
weaknesses. 

Now let the narrative return to me, Lucy Ford, the 
exile in the wilderness. The reader may remember, 
that, while alone in the woods, years after I had lost 
my companion, I was one night suddenly awakened by 
voices. I looked up. 

There stood a young man and an elderly woman^ 



4 



206 

dressed in Indian costume, and botb earnestly gazing 
upon me. 

" I am Thomas Williams,'* were the first distinct 
words, that I heard uttered. They came from the lips 
of the young man. 

For sometime I was bewildered. I thought it to be 
a dream. " Do you not know me 1" inquired he fur- 
ther, " are you not Lucy Ford 1" 

I started up from my rude couch, stood upon my feet, 
rubbed my eyes, scrutinized the speaker, then threw 
myself in tears upon his neck. 

I could not speak. I had almost lost the very un- 
derstanding and use of my native language. 

So many years of entire solitude had even almost 
obliterated the very memory of words from my mind, 
and it was only when I had embraced my friend, that I 
had slowly began to comprehend the meaning of his 
questions. 

He then pointed to his elderly companion, and added, 
** Lucy, that is your mother." 

Until several minutes had elapsed, I did not under- 
stand the meaning of the sentence, but when its sense 
came upon me, the effect was too severe for my femi- 
nine energies. 

All the past rushed through my mind, my infant hap- 
piness with my mother now before me, my being lost in 
the forest, meeting of a former playmate, our being to- 
gether in the wilderness for years, then finding our pa- 
rents' homes burned, and believing the inmates to have 
been murdered, the subsequent loss to me of my little 



207 

forest companion, all the hopes and dreams about my 
much mourned, beloved mother, which had passed in 
light and shadow over the moral atmosphere of my 
solitary hours, and my present meeting with her, added 
to the past recollections, crowded and thronged with tu- 
multuous bewildering upon my brain, and 1 fainted in 
her arms. 

"When I recovered, iny mother, who had all the time 
been riveted by excess of emotion to the spot, told me 
all the particulars of these remarkable events, the 
savages invading the settlement, and carrying her off, 
after destroying the others, her meeting with the little 
fellow prisoner, my fonner companion, and minutely 
detailed the remarkable circumstances attending their 
escape and re-union with me. 

We three, rested the night succeeding our meeting, 
as well as we could in my rude hut, w^hich I had lat- 
terly reconstructed, being so tired of living i8 the trea- 
sure cave, that I resolved to dare all danger from In- 
dians, which my residing above ground might incur. 

The next morning, we all arose early from our rude 
bearskin and forest leaves couch, upon the ground with- 
in my hut. 



208 



CHAPTER XIII. 



A NEW ALARM. 



I WAS first up. Leaving my two new found friends 
in their quiet sleep, after I had with rapture gazed upon 
their beloved forms and features, as treasures beyond all 
compare, I stole on tiptoe out of my abode, to kneel in 
the open air, and offer up to kind Heaven my grateful 
thanks for this new favour. While wrapt in my devo- 
tional exercises, carelessly flinging myself at full length 
upon the earth, in a paroxysm of overwhelming sensa- 
tions'called up from my heart's depths by the recent 
great evAts, one of my hands accidentally grasped a 
soft, moving substance. 

Shuddering with horror, involuntarily my whole 
frame recoiled from the contact with the touched object, 
which was, guess dear reader what ? One of the huge, 
death-dealing rattlesnakes, which frequent a desert, and 
which of all things is most to be dreaded. 

Its serpent envenomed fangs often fasten into the 
flesh, while he is journeying in fancied peace and secu- 
rity, and dart the subtle poison into his veins, mingling* 
with each healthful drop of the vital current, a portion 
of the deleterious fluid, which swiftly circulating through 
and through all the ramifications of the blood yessels^ 



209 

in heart and brain, destroy the sources of life, ere the 
hapless victim has had warning of aught to be avoided. 

I knew my danger and sought to escape. 

But ere I had scarce time for reflection, the awful 
sound which precedes an infliction of the mortal wound 
rattled in my ears, and I felt its horrible sting upon a 
pan of my shoulder, which was exposed uncovered by 
any garment, to the dreadful reptile's mercy. 

The terrible creature having done its worst, glided 
noiselessly away, as I screamed with terror more than 
with pain, and petrified with affright, stood still, looking 
with staring eyes like a maniac upon the gaping orifice 
caused by the serpent's fang. 

In an instant, my mother, and the much loved youth 
were beside me. He made no inquiry, but the instinct 
of his affection told him all, and inspired him with 
knowledge how to act. Could a young man, attached 
as he was to me, viewing my posture and mv fear, wit- 
nessing the fixed gaze of my eye, following it^ilh his 
own to fasten it also upon the serpent's fatal mark made 
upon my limb, hearing as no doubt he did my scream, 
and perchance also the rattle of the snake, fail to com- 
prehend my peril 1 Could he, forest-bred as he was, 
and the more deeply initiated into the lore of wild na- 
ture's medicinal herbs from his Indian captivity, and 
versed in all the rude resources which unsophisticated 
humanity avails itself of, be ignorant of what he should 
now do, in this sudden emergency, far away from all 
scientific professors in the healing art. 

He seized me in his arms. His own manly lips were 
18 



210 

applied to the wound. With all the eagerness of an 
infant extracting, with its little mouth from its mother's 
bosom, the natural nourishment which God spontane- 
ously gives so appropriately to its delicate susceptibili- 
ties, did my affection inspired physician, in a similar 
manner draw back the poison of the snake from its 
quick course through my veins. He spit some out upon 
the ground, then again applied his lips, and repeated 
the operation, until deeming me rescued from the re- 
cently impending destruction, by having every drop of 
poison sucked out of my frame, he threw his arms 
around my neck, and together we mingled our tears of 

joy- 

The whole affair was explained to my mother, and 
mutual congratulations went round the little circle. 
He then searched for an herb, which he soon found and 
fastened upon the wound, to complete the cure. 

In refined society, how valuable might similar ser- 
vices be rendered in events like the one I have just 
mentioned. A poisonous bite or sting may be rendered 
harmless by the quick olRce of a true friend, without 
personal danger to the benefactor. 

This circumstance was a new seal to the union af 
our loves. It made us of one soul indeed. 

No ill effects ensued to me^rom the rattlesnake's bite, 
nor to him from this act of his devotion to my happi^ 
ness. 

Now our attention was turned upon our future pros- 
pects. We all had health, strength and maturity ; and 
talked of repossessing ourselves of the grounds where 



Sll 

our farmer homes had been located. We counted out 
some of the gold and silver, which I had found in the 
forest, and perceived that we had means to purchase 
the services of such persons as we might discover in the 
neighbourhood, and materials essential to the erection of 
a suitable habitation, as well as to obtain all the com- 
forts of life. 

A journey was undertaken in pursuit of inhabitants. 
After travelling several days, subsisting as well as we 
could, in the way we had been so long used to in a wil- 
derness, upon some of the simple provisions which we 
had taken with us from my hut, we came to a small 
log cabin, recently put up by a new settler. People 
had begun to emigrate in considerable numbers to the 
country hereabouts, and we temporarily resided with a 
family whose manners pleased us. We procured the 
use of a wagon and a pair of horses, and took two la- 
bouring men, for an expedition. Provisioning our com- 
pany well, we directed our course to the scene of my 
lonely exile. 

Collecting from thence, some farming implements 
and a variety of articles which are dear to me, we visit- 
ed the spot of my native home. 

A log hut was soon built and divided into three 
apartments. We invited thither several families, whom 
we heard of in the vicinity, and in a few months we en- 
joyed the satisfaction of perceiving that the scene was 
a thriving village, promising to increase in prosperity. 

Farmers, a teacher, a clergyman, a physician, and 
many persons of various occupations gathered together 



212 

there, and we soon became restored to the £vssed 
usages of a Christian community. Occasionally, we 
rode to my former hermitage, and dug up such treasures 
as I had kept concealed. 

Now i was not only comfortable, but opulent. I 
owned land, houses, gold and silver, much furniture and 
farming stock. My mother and the youth whom I 
loved were similarly situated. 

It was only with the greatest difficulty that I could 
conform to the usages of refined society. My habits 
had become those of the wild forest-bred children of 
uncultivated nature. Not even the improvement which 
the rudest tribe of savages knows, by each member of 
it being in contact with other minds, was niy inherit- 
ance. My solitude prevented my acquiring the polish 
of manner, and interchange of the offices of humanity, 
which necessarily results from constant communication 
with our fellow mortals. 

So many years since my early youth, I had been en- 
tirely alone, and the interval of my enjoying human 
companionship, passed with only one little boy. For a 
long time I could not sleep at all in a close apartment, 
or upon a feather bed, accustom myself to handle knife, 
fork, spoon, etc., or wear hat, shoes and stockings, etc., 
like other people. Unrestrainedly I would shout aloud, 
occasionally, in or out of the house, run and leap, climb 
trees, and act the mere animal, as if in intellect not at 
all above the brute creation. 

My Thomas became my tamer, instructor, my guar- 
dian, although he was little better than myself, yet 



21S 

nevertheless somewhat improved by my mother's tui- 
tion, and used to human companionship, ahhough it 
was that of the rude aborigines. 

Several months had now passed since the summer 
night when my mother and male companion had come 
to my hermitage. The weather set in cold. Under 
proper instruction I had made considerable advances in 
language, morality, religion, and the common customs 
of the social state. Young Williams and I were seldom 
separate. He preferred my company to that of all the 
other young women he had become acquainted with, 
and I cannot say that I was at all displeased thereby. 
We walked together, rode together, studied from the 
same book, and ate at the same table. There was a 
language between us two, one of the eye and the man-^ 
ner, not of words, altogether made up of expression and 
sentiment. 

One cold evening we were alone by the cheerful fire, 
afforded by our own oak and hickory groves. He had 
my hand in his. He pressed it. We both gazed upon 
each other's countenance and looked might y silly, 
though very fond. Then we looked among the coals 
and ashes, and up the chimney, as if afraid of each 
other's eyes. 

"Lucyl" said Thomas in an inquiring tone, still 
holding my hand, and apparently watching the falling 
fagots. 

I replied not. I could not tell why. But I felt that 
my voice would tremble too much, if I made the at- 
%empU 

18* 



tl4 



*:' 



" To-day, Lucy," he continued, " I spoke to our good f 
minister, Mr. Thornton, to take tea with us in a fort- 
night from this evening." 

I remained silent, but my hand which he held, shook 
with trepidation, why, I cannot telL 

" What do you say to it, Lucy ?' 

My protracted silence, seemed to frighten him so 
much, that he could not hold my hand firmly, and his 
grasp relaxed. Still I had not power to remove mine. 

" And he is coming Lucy ; he agreed to." 

My mother then entered the room, and the circum- 
stance restored us both to our senses. 

On the ensuing day, the Rev. Mr. Thornton paid us 
a visit to dinner. He communicated to my mother, in 
presence of my Tommy and I, intelligence which 
seemed to have been only known to him, for all his au- 
ditors, including as well the parties most concerned as 
some strangers, expressed some surprise. 

H6 said that he was coming to the house on a certain 
evening, to unite in marriage Mr. Thomas Williams and 
Miss Lucy Ford. 

I screamed, the intended bridegroom blushed and was 
silent, and my mother exclaimed, that it was well Mr. 
Thornton had announced it, for now she knew it would 
take place, and that unless he had so spoken, perhaps 
nobody else could have brought it about. 

That very afternoon, my mother commenced prepara- 
tions for the event, and a world of cake making, invita- 
tions, bridal appointments of groomsmen, and bride 
maidens, rings and wine, and all sorts of projects wer# 



put on foot for heralding the matter forth to the world, 
and creating a new and important era in the lives of the 
late solitary exile and the youth who had temporarily 
cheered her loneliness, and was then so long lost to her, 
and again so joyfully recovered. 

The appointed time came, the ceremonies of holy 
church were performed, and a numerous party of guests 
hailed us as husband and wife. 

On the day after our union, we were obliged to enter 
into engagements with .a great many persons to pass 
part of the day at the house of each one respectively, 
situated ihrough the country far and near. 

For days, weeks and months afterwards, it was all 
visiting, and feasting, congratulations and feasting, and 
repeating to different circles the curious story of our 
early years. 

We were obliged to show to many an eager listener, 
the very hut I had reconstructed after living under 
ground some time, the treasure cave, the various spots 
hallowed by endearing remembrance, and nothing 
would content the world, but that a book should come 
forth upon the subject. 

In the course of several years these pages have been 
maturing. It has pleased kind Heaven to bless our 
union with three lovely children, two of them boys, and 
one a charming girl. 



21C 



CONCJLUSION. 



CHAPTER XIV. 



A NEW ACQUAINTANCE. 



Another pen now invokes the reader's attention. 
The artless lines of the heroine of the foregoing narra- 
tive, are herein followed up by a statement, which the 
modesty and humility of the once Miss Lucy Ford, now 
a happy wife and mother, forbade her to give to the 
world. The writer of this Conclusion, has prepared Mrs. 
Williams' narrative for the press, with very slight modi- 
fications. In her remarks, the surpassing beauty of her 
countenance and symmetry of shape, which fascinate 
all beholders, are scarcely alluded to. And the personal 
excellencies of the chosen partner of her bosom, in form, 
feature and mind, so well mated to hers, his all manly 
proportions, and hers all feminine grace, ought not either 
to be left untold. They are in truth a charming couple, 
the admiration of all the country around. When I be- 
gin to reflect upon the many things I wish to say re- 
specting them, and the matters somewhat connected 
with their interesting history, ideas, pages and volumes, 
I may express it, crow<J upon my mind, and I hesitate 



217 

what to tell first. I will as briefly as possible, occasion- 
ally allude to some of young Mr. Williams' and Lucy's 
mother's talk about the Indians, as my recollections un- 
der that head occur to me, through this conclusion. 

Let us pause for a moment, friendly reader, to con- 
template the state of these simple, unlettered beings. 
Are they not God's creatures, as we are, made in his 
own high image, and stamped with the lineaments of 
human intellect^ ^ye. They are part of the great 
and harmonious system of the boundless universe, as 
well as we, the sons and daughters of religion, science 
and morality are. 

Less than two hundred and fifty years previously to 
the time I treat of, this whole w^estern world was ex- 
clusively theirs. The dawn of civilization had never 
beamed its influence upon their benighted minds. The 
face of a white man had never been seen by them. 
They worshipped the Great Spirit, but had no temples, 
and many tribes scarcely even a roof to shelter them 
from the storm. They only expressed the changes of 
seasons and lapses of time by significant words, whose 
meaning was appropriate to the season or the hour. 
Thus, what is the festival of the New-Year, they de- 
nominated by a name derived from the appearance of 
the material world, and which characterized those ap- 
pearances. They merely took notice, in their constant 
and vigilant observation of what was occurring in the 
physical changes o the atmosphere, the soil, tempera- 
ture, vegetation, diurnal succession of light and dark- 
.ness, varied positions and appearances of the sun and 



218 

moon, and became learned in such lore by experience 
and tradition from generation to generation. They 
perceived that after the happening of a certain nmiiber 
of changes of the moon, from full moon to first quarter, 
and vice versa, subsequent to the setting in of cold 
weather, that the successive diurnal periods of darkness 
and sunlight began to vary. Tliat instead of the period 
of darkness continuing to grow longer and longer, and 
the periods of Hght shorter and shorter, they became 
about equal for several successive days and nights. That 
then nights shortened and days lengthened. This hap- 
pening year after year, and always regularly and inva- 
riably, induced them to ascribe its order and mathema- 
tical precision to the sublime and harmonious system of 
a divine intelligence, which they termed, in their simple 
phraseology, the Great Spirit. The habitual observa- 
tion of the older people through their Hves, and the re- 
motest tradition ftom their ancestors, estabUshed* it in 
their minds as a natural and immutable truth, and as a 
circumstance to be surely depended upon in their calcu- 
lations of travel, hunting or other duties, and of which 
they might avail themselves without the least appre- 
hension of fickle fluctuation, like that which takes 
place in human contrivances or speculations, that from 
the periodical time of the lengthening of the days apd 
shortening of the nights was to be dated the beautiful 
conception of the germs of vegetation in the womb of 
jiature. 

They knew that although to casual and superficial 
observers, to the eye of one who looks upon the earth 



219 

air and sky, with a slight glance, only attending to out- 
ward appearances, (like many thoughtless members of 
refined society when judging of their neighbour's mo- 
tives,) the surface of the earth was covered with the 
snow, the waters were locked up with icy fetters, the 
sky frowned in blackness of freezing storms, the piercing 
winds howled in furious sternness over the bleak, 
wintry waste, and that the nights were long and dreary, 
and the day? short and cheerless, yet their penetrating 
observations, confirmed by long experience and tradi- * 
tion, taught them that almost insensibly the nights were 
getting a few moments shorter and shorter, and the. 
days growing a few moments longer and longer. That 
days, weeks, and months would pass, before the benign 
influence of this apparently trifling change of an instant 
or two in each period of twenty-four hours would sensi- 
bly operate in the appearances of the deepening ver- 
dure upon the sod, and the shooting buds upon the ex- 
tremities of twigs and branches of trees and shrubbery, 
and in the feelings of the human frame, then would be 
the enjoyment of warmer airs, and in the length of days 
there would be such a perceptible difference, that no 
person could avoid knowing it. That when the con- 
gealing effects of very long darkness and very short 
periods of warm sunshine, began to cause a general 
torpidity in all the animal and vegetable powers, and in 
all the courses of life, as if universal darkness, congela- 
tion, certain and dreary freezing up of all nature, even 
of the very current of blood in our veins were about to 
happen, that then, in that desolate season, an embrya 



220 

principle was struggling into existence from the woml 
of nature, the principle of a return of long, warm, sun- 
shiny, summer days. 

That principle was iSrst developed in the gradual 
shortening of the nights, and almost imperceptible 
lengthening of the days, which growing with the yet 
increasing influence of previous, long, cold nights and 
short days, created a re-action against that deadening 
influence, in the whole system of our earth and atmos- 
phere, and thus in the very darkest, longest, and coldest 
night of unpropitious, dreary winter, was begotten the 
infant year, which would have its birth, and gentle 
spring or season of early youth, with all its green buds 
and mild zephyrs, then its rich summer or season of 
adolescence, with its full flowers, glowing noondays, 
and exuberant foliage and umbrageous bowers ; and 
next, its ripe, mellow autumn, crowning the husband- 
man's toil with a harvest of grain and fruit, and lastly 
again, the drowsy sleep of winter. 

They recognized, and publicly and joyfully acknowl- 
edged in festive celebrity, games, and symbolical sports, 
the advent of a New Year. They compared the silent, 
yet sure principle of the gradual lengthening of days, 
to the apt figure of a melting snow-bank. 

About the middle of the cold season, although the 
keenness of the air continued to increase, they knew 
that the rough, old, hoary demon of winter had received 
its death blow from the almost secret touch of the new- 
ly bom reason of light and heat. That the firm foun- 
dations of the rugged monarch's icy throne and iron 



Ml 

despotism had been fastened on by the gentle yet irresis- 
tible influence of the infant year, which like the potent 
spell of a mighty enchanter's wand, would slowly, but 
certainly, dissolve those solid and apparently indissolu- 
ble foundations. The effect was like the first warm 
rays of a spring sun upon the snowy avalanche on a 
lofty mountain's side. The genial ray seemed to smile 
upon that snow, and play with innocence over and 
along its whiteness, and reflect its sparklings in froUck- 
8ome tricks, calculated only to please for the hour. 

But the penetrating influence of those sunbeams 
operated beneath the icy pillars, upon \yhich that avoi 
lanche of snow rested, in its magnificent durability of 
structure, and gradually melting the solid ice into gli- 
ding Uquid, the base of the avalanche is thus noiselessly 
and imperceptibly undermined, and when the deceitful 
sunbeams have effected their malicious and mighty 
purpose, down comes the vast and tremendous pile, with 
a rapid, irresistible flight towards the valley below, af- 
frighting the devoted villagers with its thundering 
sound, scarce heard ere its inmiense mass and destruc- 
tive force strike upon their roofs and overwhelmn in a 
deep grave of snow, alike tree and house, field and river, 
herds of cattle, and the peaceful families of the village, 
the aged grandsire and the young mother, and this 
nursUng infant at her bosom, to perish in one common, 
universal, awful doom. 

Lucy and her husband, and mother, relate many very 
entertaining anecdotes of the red sons of the fores 
But we will now return to our heroine. 

10 



i2i 

What a remarkable event it is, that a little girl should 
be thus lost in the woods, and suffer there so long, much 
of the time abandoned to her own feeble resources. 

Her figure, when re-discovered by her mother, after 
the lapse of so many years, was, as to dress particularly, 
of a most grotesque appearance. 

It would really be a fine subject for the pencil and thd 
pallet. 

There she was, habited in her retnnahtd of patched 
bearskin frock, j:ap and (Coverings for her feet. The 
flewing articles she had discovered in the tred,sure cave, 
enabled her to fashion somewhat of a garment to fit 
loosely her trim form and exquisitely modelled limbs. 
Yet with the shaggy appearance of animal fur around 
her shape, her complexion embrowned by sun and storm, 
her eye resUess and piercing in its glances from habit 
of continual watchfulness against beasts of prey or sav- 
age men, her exuberant locks of auburn hue floating 
around her neck and shoulders like Mother Eve m 
Paradise — ^what a picture of lovely woman. 

The story of Mrs. Ford's and Mr. WilUams' escape 
from the Indians, is one of thrilling interest. They 
were so closely \vatched by their captors, that it seemed 
almost hopeless for them to attempt to get away. The 
location of their captivity was amid a wide wilderness, 
and if they should succeed in rescuing their persons 
from the immediate vicinity of the Indian village, they 
would probably be lost in extensive forests or upon un- 
cultivated prairies, and perish with faHiine, if they 
should escape other impending dangers. But at length. 



Hi 

after many limes giving up partial attempts, desire to 
go became irresistible, and they determined to dare all 
deaths, and for Lucy's sake, if not for their own, to com- 
mence the enterprise. Thus Mrs. Ford spoke. 

" It was in summer. We concluded to avail ourselves 
of the first dark, stormy night, under cover of whose 
gloom, the noise of the wind and the pelting rain, we 
should enter upon our perilous undertaking. It was 
with the utmost anxiety l^bat we waited such an occa- 
sion. It seemed as if the heavens now had fairly set 
out to be forever clear, as though they smiled upon us 
in mockery. Day after day all sunshine, night after 
night moon or starlight. The very breezes were hush- 
ed, or only recognized in gentle whispers. Surely the 
sky, the air, the pellucid waters reflecting the scenery, 
and azure vault above, laughed at us, and the zephyrs 
tormented us with jifaes ai^d jeers. A few fleecy clouds 
would sail lazily along the pure ether, and flaunt across 
the face of the sun, moon and stars,* promising us a 
gaUiering tempest, then disappear below the horizcHi, 
leaving all still and us (Jisappointed. Now we reflected 
upon the many midnight rains that had recently hap* 
pened, before our determination to essay a flight. We 
sorrowed over the remembrance, and mourned what all 
others aroimd us rejoiced in, viz. the fine weather. 
How perverse is human nature ; or rather, how appa- 
rently inconsistent are our actions and resolves, at dif- 
ferent times and under different circumstances. 

^ But a storm appeared to be brewing. The accumula- 
ting vapours from day to day, assured us tliat something 



more than an ordinary convulsion In the atmosphere was 
pending. The very dilatoriness of the elements at work, 
evinced that they were at labours whose mighty results 
could not be produced in a few hours. A musAirooixi 
springs up in a night and withers in a morning* An 
oak is years in acquiring its towering form and substan- 
tial frame. A paragraph may be penned in moments^ 
but months and months must be passed in one c<Hitinued 
effort of intellect, ere the pages whigh complete a book 
are all fit for the public eye. 

^ A summer shower is drawn up by a hot sand from 
the earth's vapours in a single noon, and flung in almoet 
one momentary dash along the bloommg valley to re* 
fresh the parched flowers, and they scarce miss their ac* 
customed bright beams of the glorious orb which paints 
them pink and yellow, deep blue, and a)l their brilliant 
tinges. The cooling drops only strike off each particle 
of dust from their delicate textures, and make them 
shine out brighter and breathe more fragrant odours up* 
on the delighted senses. But when the wild wiiids 
howl in fury through the grove, prostrate the proudest 
monarchs of the woods, which have been years and 
years in getting strength and broad hold in the earth, 
sweep mighty ships with all their crews into the in- 
gulfing billows of a stormy oaean, leaving not a wreck 
to tell where the hapless seamen sank, the peaceful 
cottager in the sequestered hamlet shrinks appalled into 
his humble tenement, and all the members of the fami- 
ly circle together and pray for mercy, as the roof sighs 
and groans beneath the burden of the rushing blast — 



226 

ihen^ the agitation of the atmosphere is i\ot a trifling af- 
fair of the instant, got up in haste and over in a mo- 
ment. Vapours from far and near are a long time col- 
leeting from the lake and the sea, the dismal swamp 
and the distant rivers and plains. They rise and cure 
helped up, pile upon pile, until the superincumbent 
mass presses downward to our earth's surface, and 
winds and rains, and noise and fury, join the strife of 
elen^ieotSf the brooks are swelled 4o wide streams, the 
mountain pours down huge torrents from its side, carry- 
ing before it, in its irresistible and desolating progress, 
earth and rocks, trees and houses, flocks and herds, and 
often drowning, as with a descending ocean, the hapr 
less families whose properly it has already destroyed. 
To bring forth such a storm, the atmosphere is long iu 
labour. 

^ It was such a threatening tempest which seemed 
now to be lowering upon us. Oh ! what a crisis we 
were in. To long for a terrible assault upon our present 
honoies from the very skies themselvjes, in order to ena^ 
ble us to go forth from our dwellings and encounter its 
fearfulness, rather than remain prison^ers, Such a state 
of mind we were in then. The very savages gloomily 
wended their way to their respective wigwams. A^s the 
heavy wind sighed along the ground, and one little 
whirlwind after another, made its swiftly flying circles 
of dust, the hardy tenants of the aboriginal village 
were preparing themselves for secure shelter. Our 
hearts almost sank within us in utter despair of any 
successful issue to our enterprise, when we saw such 

19* 



326 

precautions for safety from exposure, taken by persons 
flo accustomed, as Indians are, to every peril, and know- 
ing almost by instinct when some thing really terrible 
was near at hand. And we to dare all^his. Ah ! it is 
quite another guess thing to theorize in sunshioy days^ 
imd plan a journey to be undertaken during the firat 
storm, from what it is to act up to the plan when the 
proposed storm arrives. But thoughts of Lucy urged 
us on, and though we quaked with apprehennon^ our 
resolves remained unshaken. 

*' Clouds and night together brought darkness. The 
only thoughts of the savages seemed to be upon protec* 
iion of their own persons. They never suspected, as 
¥^e conjectured, that we should be so foolhardy as even 
to think for a moment of running away, amid such a 
fearful commotion of all the powers of the aii. The 
wind increased, the rain descended, and the more it 
blew and the more it poured, it seemed as if the stronger 
it blew, and the fiercer the waters came down. Oh ! 
it was indeed an awful night. At length the very uU 
most fury of all that is frightful in a hurricane was 
upon and around us all. Not a roof remained unhurt. 
The slender structures of the huts were swept from their 
base, and the terrified inmates men, women, and chil- 
dren rushed out screaming and commingled in promis- 
cuous confusion, exposed to the whole pitiless peltings 
of the rain and wind. 

"No distinction of captive or conqueror was there. AlB 
if the last day was come, and wild chaos was resuming* 
its reign over nature, there was but one struggle, and 



227 

Ihat was for existeDce, each individual to save himself 
or herself, young or old, male or female, stern warrior 
or helpless infant. 

"Now was the time to escape from worse than the 
elements' fury, from the inhumanity of our own kind. 

'^ We saw a hut blown to fragments, and the ruins 
whirled about in the angry air ; a woman and two 
young girls attempting flight from destruction, drawn 
into the vortex of a rushing tonrent, whose furious bil- 
lows carried them remorselessly over timbers and stones, 
bruising their tender limbs, dashing them now against 
a rock, anon rolling them over and over in ingulfing 
waters, and bearing them far away from home and 
friends into a newly created lake, sprung from the womb 
of this dreadful tempest, where amid the noise of the 
wind and surf, the rain and their own vain, terrific 
death-screams of human agony, they perished. We 
saw them drown. We laughed like maniacs. The 
horrible confusion of all feelings,, and confounding of 
all ordinary sensations of humanity — ^the shrieks of the 
dying, the battling of the storm, the flight of honor^ 
struck fugitives from God's own wrath, manifested in 
the whirlwind and the howling of all the 8[»rits of the 
avenging blast, all, all, were joy and sunshine, hope and 
frolic, fun and promise of future good to us, late priso- 
ners to savage men and women, now free as the wild 
winds which burst our prison doors, and looking forward 
to distant haunts of beastsof prey, as our place of refuge. 
We ran, we held each others' hands, we were mad, for 
we wept with joy as we turned our heads and saw that 



«2« 

in the apparent desolation arid death dealing around us, 
a gleam of hope (oh ! selfish mortality) lighted us on 
to far off regions. AH was darkness, gloom, and h(Nr- 
rors ; but we struggled on. Life was not yet extinct. 
We could move. We felt each others' hands, though 
scarcely seeing each others' forms. ^ We dashed on, 
through bush and brier, over rock and rivulet, heedless 
of aught but delay to make forward progress. All 
our senses seemed to have fled but one, a sense to fly, 
still onward and onward. 

We heard the scream of the prowling panther ; we 
hailed it as a forward goal to reach. We listened. to 
the howl of the bloodthirsty wolf, we sought its vicinity, 
because we knew that it was farther off from our late 
prison than we were then. The frightful rattle of the 
serpent, which strikes terror into all travellers over that 
of other dreadful sounds, rang upon our ears. But it 
was before us, and we sought to gain the spot. The 
thunder shook the earth, and sharp, and angry ligbtt^ 
nings flashed upon the view of a huge bear in our path ; 
.we scarcely turned aside, for it was so much distance 
grained from our late savage owners. A precipice was 
before us, we looked over its edge in a sudden gleam of 
the electric spark, we saw clefts of rock to climb down, 
and we attempted the descent--— for our pursuers per- 
haps would soon be at its brink. Down it we climbed. 
Still our feet could not reach firm earth. Oh ! what a 
feeling we had then. Perchance we should fall to a 
great depth and be crushed to atoms. We never could 
ascend. We shouted aloud to each other, and occa^ 



2M 

sionally, amid the doleful pauses of this most terrible of 
all tempests, we could faintly hear each other's yells of 
mutual despair. Down, down, down we climbed. 
Serpents hissed upon us from their nests in the face of 
the precipice, and crawled over our fingers. The car- 
rion crow flapped its wings in our faces, and pecked at 
our eyes. Occasionally our moving limbs started a large 
stone from its place, and its rushing substance was heai'd 
breaking its way beneath our feet in a horrid long lapse 
of descent. Down, down it went. Limbs of projecting 
bushes crashed beneath its weight. Other stones were 
loosened and all went down together, and bounded 
against jocks; then the passing wind furiously embraced 
our frames, and almost tore us from our firm grasp of 
rock or root, and at length we heard the falling stones 
plunge into water. Oh, mercy ! Were we descend- 
ing into a watery grave 1 But the Indians were be- 
hind, and down we still climbed, and at length, thank 
a kind Providence, we touched a firm rock together^ 
which seemed to have considerable extent. We hugged 
each other in ecstasy as we stood, as if upon a plain, just 
as our strength of hand and arm was becoming so ex- 
hausted, that it would have been utterly impossible for 
either of us to have clung any longer to the side of a 
precipice, whether root or rock offered us a hold for the 
fingers. We sank down in a huddle upon each other. 
We laughed and wept, and cried aloud together, oh 
blessed God ! we thank thee for this kind mercy. 

" There we shuddered, through that night of all hor- 
rors, in each other's arms, and we slept, aye, we slept. 



230 

*^The struggling beams of a clouded dawn broke slow-' 
ly upon our bewildered senses, and we spoke to each 
other. We gazed around. We were amid a wide 
waste of waters. The wind howled, the waves roared 
against surrounding rocks, and escape from our present 
position seemed to be impracticable. We should starve, 
if not drown. I clambered down the rock's «ide into 
the water. Oh ! joy. The depth was less than my 
shoulders. We forded our way through the deluged 
plain, and found ourselves upon weed tangled ground, 
whose surface our eyes could behold. 

" We had escaped. Our enemies, those who survived 
the hurricane, probably deemed we had perished among 
them. 

" Falling by mutual impulse upon the firm earth, on 
our faces, we kissed the cold soil, then hand in hand, 
springing upon our knees, our arms and eountenanpes 
were lifted up towards the heavenly abode of our Di- 
vine Preserver, our failing voices, (scarce any muscular 
power left us, in voice or limb,) were mingled in holy 
prayer and thanksgiving. 

" Yielding thus to overpowering sensations, we sank 
prostrate and silent, and lay thus for several hours. A 
strange mood of mind, a phase of the light of life la 
our changing condition, a paroxysm of our despair, or 
a delirium half, and half slumber, whatever it might 
be denominated ensued, and when it had passed over 
us, we looked upon one another, and thought, what 
horrid dreams we had just suffered in. We can scarce. 
ly tell now, how we lived on, what food sustained our 



ssi 

existence, what sense kept us near each other, whether 
we remained hours, or nights and days there. But a 
time came, when we recognized each other again in a 
condition of humanity. We spoke. We knew some-^ 
what of the past, dehberated in a tolerable degree of 
sanity respecting the future. I am very hungry, said I. 
And I also am dying for want of sustenance, added 
young Williams." 

Before we reheve this famished couple, from their 
dire extremity, we must recur to some of their preceding, 
experience in the Indian village. 

Among the heterogeneous characters of this tribe of 
aborigines, there was one, which is said not to be un- 
common among the savage race in general, but which 
to a refined member of society would seem to be an 
anomaly in our species. 

This character was exhibited in the person of a male 
Indian, whose peculiarites acquired for him, according 
to the usually characteristic mode of naming individuals^ 
in practice among uncivilized people — the cognomen of 
Oyahwha or the Dog, or rather the Lazy Dog. In 
sooth, the term was by no means here misapplied, for 
perhaps of all mortals who ever breathed, this creature 
was of all lazy ones, the laziest. He was almost too 
indolent to hve. It was well that his blood circulated 
within his veins, despite of himself, and that the lungs 
needed no exertion of mind on the part of Oyahwha. 
For had that been the case they would never be set in 
motion by him. He was all animal, as far as heedlessnew 
of the future and recklessness of the past were con- 



t88 

cemed. Most of his hours were passed in eleep^ or 
stupid listlessness and inaction. Dressing or undreas- 
ing was by far too arduous a task for him to sustain. 
He was scarcely ever known to perpetrate a fault of 
corn-mission — ^he was all o-mission. When his parents 
or acquaintances had put the simple vestments of the 
tribe upon his limbs^ which he permitted through apathy, 
thus he remained habited, until frolicksome boys took 
them off, which they delighted to do. Sunmier or win- 
ter, it was all the same to him. Frost scarcely seemed 
to chilly noonday heat of the hottest season to discom- 
fort his indifferent susceptibilities. Yet he seemed to 
be always cheerful — nay, perfectly happy. He might 
be considered as a personification of human felicity^ his 
lineaments looking all enjoyment, the lip full, red end 
pouting, chin dimpled with simple contentment, brow 
unwrinkled, laughing eye, limbs all filled up to the ripe 
proportions of good health, and voice soft and melo- 
dious. On occasion of very cold weather, he slpwly 
sought the nearest shelter, which though slight, suf- 
ficed him for protection from the extremest severity. 
But it was surprising to behold how the very snow would 
melt away from around him if he chanced to lie down 
upon it, as he sometimes would, he had so much animal 
heat about him, fortunately provided by kind nature to 
supply the place of the artificial heat, which he was too 
lazy to procure for himself. Unless almost starved to 
death, he could not summon up sufficient muscular 
energy to make a meal. Nevertheless, when he once 
began, and was fairly set about it, his masticators in 



|M3 

full play, and plenty of the food before him, aid he 0tu 
pihely lay along his ottoman (the ground,) he never 
iJtopped eating, never. That is, some other person mtttsi 
do it for him, by removmg the victnalft from his vicinity* 
Oat ot his reach would suffice, for if hii^ outstretched 
arm could not get it, he would not rise to approach it 
with its whole sluggish frame. He never was acfcr 
This singular fellow was the jest of the whole village^ 
and afibrded much merriment 

Well, to return to Mrs. Ford, and Mr. Williams, and 
to continue the story in my own language, just exhaud-^ 
ted for want of food, when they were at the foot of the 
precipice, on the morning after their flight from captivi- 
ty. While they were casting vain, hungry looks about 
th^m upon the bleak and barren prospect of swamp and 
rock, forest and untilled open ground, who should they 
see but the Dog or Oyahwha. He was actually in mo- 
tion, aye running towards them. Of course they felt 
assured that they beheld a spectre. Oyahwha had been 
killed in the storm no doubt, and his shade had arisen, 
lightened of its burden of flesh, blood and inactive pro- 
pensities. The apparition approached, it looked like 
life. It ree\ed and staggered to and fro. In its hand 
was a flask, which ever and anon was applied to the 
mouth. When it came near, lo ! there was the Dog, 
alive and changed from half animated clay to a merry, 
skipping thing of sense and motion. He chattered and 
laughed, and played off all sorts of gesticulations, and 
a blanket was fastened by a leather belt arotmd hid 
waist. The secret inspiration was artificial excitement 

to 



SS4 

taused by the contents of the flasks being nothing more 
nor less than that potent essence, which the distillery 
kad sent through the medium of the traders among the 
Indians in the shape of brandy. In the general de- 
struction of the village, by some means or other, this 
article which white men had bartered there for valuable 
furs, had fallen into the hands (it must ^ have actually 
fallen therci) of Oyahwha. The powerful stimulus 
had set his sluggish powers in motion, and probably he 
had followed the fugitives, as he was seen by them just 
before they had quitted the vicinity of their late resi- 
dence^ 

He handed the flask to the famishing pair, wlio par- 
took of some, and the thought entering into Mrs. Ford's 
nind that she might avail herself of the fellow's services, 
she refused to let him have it again, lest he might drink 
enough to become so inebriated that he would be inca- 
pable of rendering them assistance. She spoke aside 
to Williams, telling him to get to as great a distance 
with it as possible. 

Accordingly he withdrew to a remote spot. 

Oyehwha ran after him, but the object of his chace 
was concealed about the person of its new possessor^ 
and the former unable to find his beloved liquor, imnne- 
diately set up a howling, as much like the canine ani- 
mal whose cognomen he bore, as possibly could be 
imagined. 

Mrs. Ford also gained the same vicinity, and then 
she conversed with their new found guide, for she had 
learned to speak the Indian tongue, and requested his 



235 

aid to seek the hermitage of her daughter^ hoping that 
it might be traced out, and that the lonely exile was 
still in the land of the living. 

Comprehending her wishes to the full extent, with 
much sagacity, he made many inquiries of her and 
Williams, and immediately commencing a trot in an 
easterly direction, bending slightly forward after the 
manner of the aborigines, he beckoned to his two com- 
panions to follow. They did so, exerting themselves 
through recent fatigue to the utmost to keep pace with 
his progress, which was steady, but not very fast. He 
bad continued his trot for two hours, and his followers 
theirs with the greatest difficulty, much astonished at 
the great change from one of the laziest to one of the 
most active of men. But alcohol often works wonders. 
At the' end of the time just mentioned, Oyahwha re* 
laxed his trot to a walk, next he slowly dragged his 
limbs along, then fell at full length, 'and said he intend- 
ed to sleep. Of course, now, the will of the Dog was 
law. Once a neglected being, or only the butt of ridi- 
cule, his station was most abject. But here, in the lit- 
tle community of the three individuals, the late wretch- 
ed outcast was the one most to be depended upon, from 
the almost instinctive knowledge which a red son of the 
forest always possesses, to provide them all with food, 
and direct them on their way. 

Accordingly, and glad to avail themselves of a fev 
moments to rest, the other two reclined by his side, and 
then in the open air, completely overcome by weariness, 
^hey all slumbered soundly. Mrs. Ford awoke first 



260 

and anxious to proceed she jogged her young friend's 
elbow, and then shook their guide. He opsned his 
now lack-lustre orbs of vision, scarcely looked about 
him, yawned, stretched out first bis arms, then drawing 
them in, extended one leg in the usual manner of a per- 
son just throwing off drowsiness, drew his knee up to- 
wards his breast, then stretched out the other leg and 
drew it up also, folded his arms, muttered something 
about peace and quiet, and again betook himself to re- 
pose, and began soon to snore away most lustily. All 
the attempts of the two others to arouse him were vain. 
Hoqr after hour passed, and when he did awake, they 
found that the spirit of activity, which the stimulus of 
brandy had infused into him, was laid in its grave with 
the departed fumes of the genial beverage. 

The suffering pair looked about them for food, and 
were obliged to content themselves with berries and 
nuts. There they passed the night. The next day 
their guide was still the Dog as of old, or rather Lazy 
Dog, and Mrs. Ford concluded that possibly, the flask 
might be re-applied to Oyahwha's lips with like benefi- 
cial effects as formerly had evidently attended its appli- 
cation. 

" Tommy," said that lady to him, " out with the po- 
tent enchantef which can in an instant change a beast 
into a man. Let us pour a little brandy do\Yn his throat, 
as a last resort." 

This medicine was tested, and no sooner had the in- 
dolent creature swallowed a small quantity, when its 
powerful influence extended itself throughout his slug- 



2S7 

glish frame, and leaping upon his feet, clapping bis 
hands and jumping up and down several times, he 
shouted " jatin, jatin !'' which language of his, means 
good, good. 

Care was taken to conceal the precious fluid from 
him, as soon as a quantum sufficit to make him move was 
used. A double purpose was served in this conceal-* 
ment. Too free indulgence would not only be prevent- 
ed, but a store would be kept in reserve to stimulate to 
action whenever necessary. If proper economy in this 
respect should not be practised, the whole might be ex- 
hausted long ere the journey should be finished, and 
then what should the fugitives do ? 

While the good spirit was upon him, Oyahwba lock' 
ed about him for game. With much dexterity he start- 
ed a rabbit and pursuing it with a well aimed stcme, he 
laid it lifeless upon the ground. He also killed several 
large birds with similar weapons, and then set himself 
to work to get a fire. By twirling the sharp end of a 
dry stick into a small puncture made with a sharp stone 
in another dry piece of wood, he efl*ected his purpose^ 
with much patient labour and ingenuity. Gathering 
dry leaves, he blew a spark into a blaze, and with broken 
off branches of trees, a sufliciency of fuel was afforded 
fer all their culinary purposes. A grateful meal was 
then made by them, and the provider of it did justice in 
the eating. 

Mrs. Ford, and Mr^ Williams could not blame him 
for his huge appetite, nor the gratifying it, because they 
were but guests at his hospitable board. 

20* 



238 

They bad finished their meal. Tommy and Mrs. 
Williams urged Oyahwba to guide them further on 
their journey, and he assured them, that he could find 
the locality of Lucy's hermitage. But still he neglected 
to move. What was the matter nowl The brandy 
had not done operating. The Indian took Mrs. Ford's 
hand. He pressed it gently. She looked at him^ ^nd 
felt horror struck to behold that in the countenance^ of 
the former sloth, there was marked an expression, which 
though from a proper quarter would be welcomed, from 
«uch a creature as this, was only productive of aversioa 
and fear on her part. He drew her towards him, strain- 
ed her to his bosom, imprinted a licentious kiss upoa 
Jber wan cheek, and she by her screams drew WiUi^ms 
io her side. 

"Oh I help me Tommy^ help me 1" she cried. "Thia 
•villain is using violence towards me." 

As young Williams seized the Dog by the shouldersr^ 
he wa9 flung by a Herculean force against a rock ^i a 
little distance, and one side of his head coming in eon- 
tact with it, hfO was entirely bereft of his senses by the 
stunning shock. 

Oyahwha now had the hapless woman in his power, 
fihe was eminently beautiful, and her struggles oniy 
increased the libidinous ardour of his unprincipled sug- 
gestions. 

He tore her garments from her neck, and amid her 
screams yelled his own savage delight, when his brutal 
intentions were momentarily frustrated by the loud and 
wild war whoop of a large number of Indians, who 



S39 

tJoubtlessly were the tribe with whom the fugitive had 
lately beea prisoners. 

Affrighted at the sound, the Dog, fearing that be 
might be considered as a participator in the flight of the 
captives, quitted his infamous attempts upon Mrs. Fcxrdy 
and cfeizing a huge fragment of rock^ with the etpeogth 
of a giant, hurled it directly at the teeth of a ferocioiis 
looking warrior, naked and painted red from crown to 
heel, who sternly was running towards the heljdess wo* 
man with uplifted tomahawk, about to sink Its ahaip 
edge into her brain. 

The well aimed weapon of Oyahwh-a did its dutjr^ 
and with a hideous groan, his jaw shattered, his flesh 
hanging in bleeding shreds about his neck and chin, the 
terrible enemy sunk upon the earth a lifeless corpse. 
* Several others in succession rushed upon him, and 
with stones which Mrs. Ford and Williams provided, 
they were either kept at bay or severely wounded and 
rendered helpless. 

During the contest, a third party came op^ being a 
band of natives, with whom the first band were at wer* 
and between which respective parties, a long and ex- 
terminating hostility had existed. 

Now the strife was between the two hostile bands^ 
and the three individuals, Mrs. Ford, Mr. Williams, and 
Oyahwha, were entirely disregarded. 

The battle raged long and terribly. Rifles were fired, 
bows and arrows did their share, and tomahawks were 
unsparing. Man after man was seen to fall, and at 
length both parties slunk away from each other, and 



240 

in the confusion the two Christian witnesses of h ig 
direful affray, Mr. Williams having recovered his senses, 
contrived to elude the vigilance of Indian eyes, and 
again escaped captivity. Oyahwha was no where to 
be found, and they knew not what had become of him. 

They had travelled many miles, when just before 
them, flitting along like a ghost, they beheld the form 
of the Dog. He pointed to a smoke curling up among 
the trees, then disappeared. The other two hurried to- 
wards the smoke, beheld a fire, a hut, found within it, 
the lonely exile Lucy Ford, and the rest the reader 
knows. 

Before I relate something more, particularly concern- 
ing Lucy and her family, I will give the reader a short 
story which was current among the tribe of Indians, 
whence Mrs. Ford and Mr. Williams so faaj^ily 
escaped. 

It is well known that aborigines are much given to 
superstition, and like all people in the primitive stages 
of society, have their wild legends, equal to any of 
Cental origin. 



Ml 



INDIAN LEGENDS. 



CHAPTER I. 



Before the pale faces from across the Qreat Deep 
had been seen upon these shores, the Great Spirit was 
more bountiful to his favourite red children, and often 
held communication with their priests, both in bis au» 
gust person and by inferior agents. 

Once, a reverend expounder of religioo was apart 
from the other fellow members of his tribe^ upcm a 
remote mountain, praying for a sign from the Great 
Author of Creation, and for inspiration to enable him tp 
be the more serviceable to his own race. 

He laid his face upon the verdant sod and wept at his 
own insufiSciency, and resigned himself to heaven's will. 

Thus humbled he laid a few moments, when the 
•earth moved beneath his form, it began to rock and 
heave like the billowy ocean just after a tempest. He 
heard a voice, unlike aught human. It was the very 
perfection of all united harmonies. The melody circu-> 
lated through his veins like a new and happier life, and 
he deemed himself aheady departed from mortal exis^ 
' tence, and translated into those blessed spheres where 
/ill natures partake of the felicity which reigns supreme 
ithere. A light shone around him, whose brilliant ef- 



S42 

fclgence dazzled his sight, even as be lay, with bk 
haads over his eyes. He felt at his shoulders ifae mo* 
tion of new limbs as it were growing from his p^rsoO) 
and soon experienced a new muscular power, that of 
vringing his way through the air. Involuntarily he 
assumed its exercise, and perceived that upon pinions, 
which increased into full feather as be j9ew, he was 
quitting sublunary regions. An atmosphere oi warmth 
and illumination was a concomitant of his improved fa- 
culties. A portion of supreme intelligence seemed to 
be infused into him, for he knew that he could pene- 
trate much of the mystery of nature, which is wisely 
hidden from mere mortal perceptions. 

Away and away — ^far from the nether world he sped, 
all his susceptibilities glowing with rapture inconceiva- 
ble to grosser capabilities. Upon his new sense, broke 
different views from what he had ever before entertain- 
ed. Sun, moon and stars, all were gone. The sky 
with its thousand glowing fires-— it was but an im)agi- 
nary idea of human ignorance. He was received into 
a company of beings of celestial mould. All that was 
ever most beautiful in woman, or noble in man, was far 
excelled. Happiness was^without alloy. It was the 
abode of the departed just — ^those whose sins had been 
forgiven, and whose souls had quitted the tenement of 
clay for etherial essences. Various Mates of being were 
there permitted. First, new comers were allowed, until 
they desired a change to live as they had lived on earth, 
but free from trouble and sorrow, accident or want. 
In one quailer of this lovely region was seen a fami- 



u$ 

ly of a father, mother, four cherubs of boys^ and ona 
sylph of a girl— ^the beloved offsprmg. They had all 
perished from a canoe which sank in a lake^ and were in- 
stantaneously in spiritual being, brought hither, and 
put into permanent possession of all the joys whose taste 
they had on earth. 

The priest, who looked upon all this glorious scene, 
was accosted by a form, which was in apparent natnre 
a maiden of mortal mould. She was decked in attire 
which only hid personal excellences to show them forth 
in the roost attractive manner, calculated to heighten 
every charm in its fascination upon the senses of the 
beholder. 

She held to his face a mirror. He beheld his figure, 
it was no longer that of an aged and infirm dotard, but 
youthful, in all ripe proportions of manly vigour and 
grace, and well adapted to match her feminine advan- 
tages. 

She told him of the future and the past. She told 
him of the true religion which was to extend its influ- 
ence over the red men, which was upheld by the Great 
Spirit, and which was to be brought into every remote 
corner of the residence of man. She said that she her- 
self had, gone through great trials in the world below 
and spoke as follows in relation to them. 



?^ 



t44 



CHAPTER 11. 

THE CELESTtJLL MAIDEN'S STORT. 

•* I WAS one of three daughters of a famous chieftam; 
A young man of a neighbouring tribe loved roe, but my 
patents forbade out union, until he had gained a name 
by his great achievennents of skill and valoui', had erect* 
ed a new hut with several compartments, and filled it 
with stores of all things necessary for the comfort of a 
fafnilyj and hospitable entertainment in a noble manner 
of friends and guests. He forbade our speakings until 
my lover could, with the requisite pretensions, openly 
claim my hand| according to the prohibition and terms 
ctated. 

•* He tad I spoke our parting words, embraced, he im- 
printed a kiss upon my lips, we hand in hand invoked 
the blessing of the Great Spirit, and then as he dropped 
my hand and darted from me, I hung my head, sighed 
fttid dared not trust my eyes with a glance towards his 
(needing form. 

"He was gone. 

*^ Days, weeks, months passed. My father spoke to 
me." 

** ^ Laida,' said he, * your beloved Eonto is dead.' 

"The shock convulsed me. I fell at his feet in a 
iwoon. 



^^When I recovered, my parent was bathing my tern* 
pies, with the assistance of some other friends. 

'^ Near by, stood a young man named Ka,wnee, whose 
look upon me had in it so much of licentious desire, and 
-maUgnant.triumphj.that I considered him, fit once as the 
person bringidg the dreadful tidings of my dear Eonto's 
de^easey.perhaps the inventor of a base firaud upon our 
credulity, to. win me to himself. He had long h^n an 
unsuccessful rival of Eonto> and no doubt availed himi* 
iself of theprotracted absence of the latter^ to spread. tbii 
felse .report of his death. 

*^l east upon him a keen glance of scrutiny ai^d bjCWt 
sation, and his cowering beneath that glance, ai^ 
dirinking from my view, brought convicticm to mly 
mind of his baseness. But .1 remained silent^ while my 
father resumed his discoui»e." 

'^Xiaida, the celebrated Kawnee, at whose girdle 
hangs many a scalp gained on the battle-ground by 
his own powerful arm, whbse hut^^ wide and well furr 
oished with riches, the finest fi^lik for thy couch and 
robes, all good things for thy pa||^ and a chcHce at 
many gaily decked canoes to s%9lNipon the lake in^ 
seeks thy alliance. It ;is my wish that thou diouldi^ 
wed him, and a week hence is aj^nted for the cere* 
mony." 

^* I bowed to my hcmoured father, but answered not. 

^* A week passed by and the guests were gathered to 
our bridal. 

'^ I had not consented, nor would I be the willing mate 

of Kawnee, whom with all his wealth, valour aod d€k- 

21 ^ 



246 

votioQ to me) I hated. Ah ! I never beheved he knew 
how to love truly. My heart was with EontOj perchance 
in his grave. 

*^ The ceremonies commenced, and I witnessed with 
horror) that I was to be made a sacrifice to the determi- 
tion of my family and friends. 

*^ The conclusion €i the wedding, was to be that a pro- 
cession was to escort ^e to Kawnee's abode, ajid the 
priest putting me therein, and placing my hand in that 
of my future hudband, was to retire, shutting the door 
after him, leaving Kawnee and myself alone, and that 
was to seal our union, leaving me thereafter no choice, 
as I was then to be considered as a wedded wife. 

** Slowly the throng moved to the destined wigwam, 
when, just as it was about to enter, all eyes were trans- 
fixed upon the object which met their view, the very 
form of Eonto stood in the doorway, his face pale, and 
his head resting upon his arm, which a spear stuck into 
the ground, supported. ^ 

'^^' *< I was carried home, overcome with emotion, and the 
throng scattered, each one of the number calling loudly 
upon Eonto, who had disappeared suddenly. In fact 
every person present witnessed the very living, undoubt- 
ed appearance of Eonto himself, universally recognized, 
now gone, none knew whither." 

" * It was the apparition of a being, no longer clothed 
with flesh and blood like ourselves,' cried the presiding 
priest. ^ The evil spirit must be overcome,' added he, 
and commenced his incantations, and burning of herbs, 
and invoked powers of the earth and air in mysterious 



247 

language and signs, to allay the unhallowed influence 
which mocked his rites. 

" The trembling Kawnee was bade to assert his prero- 
gatives and take me into his abode. 

** Once more they led me thither or rather carried me, 
for I was almost an insensible burden in their arms. 

" When we had reached the vicinity of the place where 
a hut ought to be, on its site was a stagnant pool. No 
fragment of the late abode was there, but amid pesti- 
lential vapours which exhaled, was seen a colossal figure 
bearing somewhat of the features of Eonto, which 
frowned angrily upon the assembled multitude. Its 
arm then extended itself slowly, Kawnee fell to the 
earth affrighted, was seized by the figure's extended 
arm, the gigantic apparition then silently sank into the 
waters, dragging down with it the terrified victim 
whose agonising cries rent the air in vain, for in a few 
moments both forms were ingulfed beneath the surface, 
and no man or woman ever spake of them more, butm 
low, fearful tones of voice, hushed almost into a whis- 
per, through dread of invoking upon the speaker the 
vengeance of the mighty spirit which threatened to 
haunt for mischief every daring interferer in its mys- 
teries. 

"Subsequent to this event, I pined away, and mortal 
weakness yielding to the stroke of affliction, brought 
me here into these celestial regions. I know that my 
Eonto still lives, and is faithful to me. It is also made 
known to me, that he soon also will join me here, a 
victim in mortal life to his faithful love, thereby enabled 



348 

lo live in bliss forever with me here. Thus ended the 
celestial maiden's story. 

** When this conversation had terminated j a blooming 
figure of a noble looking young man, suddenly appeared 
and shouting * my love ! my love !? rushed- towcuds 
the female speaker, clasped her in his arms, while she 
iiesponded to his words, ^ dear Eonto ! dear Eonto !' 
and kissed his cheeks, and suffered his embrace^ and 
also added, * never shall we part again,* to which he 
subjoined, * no never, never !* " 

It was indeed the faithful couple, united forever, and 
Eonto thus narrated the particulars of his absence, and 
interference in the marriage of Kawnee with^ his be- 
loved. 

*• When I parted from your father, compelled to leave 
(the dear heaven of thy presence, for distant toils and 
hardships, perhaps death, I went onward, in a state 
little short of alienation of mind. What a strange 
world this is, mused L My disposition is to be virtuous, 
at least my intentions are good, and I wish, fervently 
wish, pray and study to do, what seemed right. My 
beloved and I, desire a holy union of interests, to be 
husband and wife, to raise a family in piety and useful* 
ness. The most humble Ufe will content us. Yet, a 
stem fate interposes between the sweet affections. All 
ties are severed by a superior power to man's. I am 
driven, an outcast, to want, may be crime and ignominy. 
However, used to suflfering and deprivation, to exposure, 
I pushed onward, and the thought struck me that I 
would seek the end of the world, discover its wonders. 



S49 

ihea retuming to your father with tokens of my jouri 
ney, claim thy hand, as having performed a wonderful 
achievement. 

**My habits enabled me to pass h^urs without food, live 
outdoors, scarce clad, or com{de(ely diivested of habili- 
ments, expose myself unharmed to 'the heaviest rains,- 
and fiercest snow stoi:ms, and under possession of these 
powers of endurance, what could l^ot venture upon. 

*^ My course was directed towards the cold regions 
where winter makes his home, h had acquired suffi- 
cient knowledge of the earth'<s surface, to shape my way 
towards that part of our country, where over frozen 
seas I could walk or go in the reindeer sleds of fietr <^ 
tribes, to the other country where the end of the world 
was. Weeks and':nK>Rths passed on my journey, and 
.the climate was stilLcolder and colder, for the great fire 
of day shone less and less upon my footsteps, till all 
seemed to be one long, dreary night. I passed bdling 
hot springs, bubbling up from heaps of ice and snow, 
huge hills from whose barren tops, came smoke, and 
showers of burning substances, whose masses in im- 
mense rivers of fire - came down the frost bound chan- 
nels, mountain torrents diteadful to behold, yet impart- 
ing a genial heat, relieving the intensity of the sur- 
rounding cold. Even here people lived and were hap- 
py. They loved, they ate, drank, slept, danced and 
made merry ; and a long life rolled away, where the 
warmth of the air scarcely seemed sufficient to sustain 
the circulation of blood in the veins. When I beheld 

any object, which would appear strange to your father, 

21* 



I pictured its likeness upon the skin of my arm, or hfeiist^' 
in a small onnpass, by pricking its texture with a ihona 
or other sharp pointed instrument, and putting a peimai^ 
nent red or strong colour extracted from herba mid. 
minerals in the punctures, thus indelibly marking the 
outlines suflkiently defined of the object to be thus 
represented. I knew the efiect, of such representations^* 
would be to astonish your father, and convince . him^ 
that I had seen wonders, and done wonders to paas 
along amid such new and strange sights. Then be 
wauld bless me with the possession of your person^ 
whose mind and heart I knew I already enjoyed the 
absolute proprietorship of. Such a hope, the mene 
gleam athwart the night of my despondency of such a 
hope, often sustained me, when the almost exhausted 
powers of nature would otherwise have given way. 

^'Sometimes at night, when wrapped up in the warm^ 
thick furs which kind families of strangers supplied to 
me, our reindeer conveyance flying swift as the wind 
across the icy sea, the condensed breath and perspira- 
tion of the graceful animals rising in clouds like smoke, 
while they snorted and spumed the glassy or snow 
covered pathway with their hoofs and slender limbs, I 
would gaze upon the millions of lights in the sky, which 
bum there with uncommon brilliancy, and selecting one 
star, indulge myself with the sweet fancy, that perhaps 
my beloved, far away was looking at the same time, at 
the same star. Or may be, that is the star, or this one, 
or another, while my delighted imagination roved from 
one of these night fires of the Good Great Spirit to 



S51 

unolher^ BOt wishing to resign the thought, even of a} 
delusion that our mutual glances from eairth to heaven^ 
could thus meet in <me point, for away off in the bkio 
aky, where beings of UisB rove free and in the fullnese. 
offeteraal Micity. 

^ Still 'going, graduaUy towards the country of th» 
setting 8iin^;altbough I had to pass through frozen sre- 
^ns to cross the sea by means of ice, I reached the< 
shoTesof' that country, and theh directed my course to- 
wards a warmer climate. I went through many ter-. 
ritoriesj vast forests, over mountains, and across deserts^.' 
swam lakes and rivers, and reached a people whose 
women have very sms^U feet in coQ3equence of their con- 
fining th^n in iroa shoes when young. Many fami- 
lies of the nation live altogether in habitations upon tho 
water. It is the largest tribe in the world, that I have, 
overseen. Every family has an employment which 
descends from generation to generation in the same 
family. One portion of the families produce the priests^ 
others the tillers of ground, others the wcutriors, and 
each of these divisions is so distinct, that the habits and 
manners of each differ almost as widely from one an- 
other, as if they were not the same race. I imprinted 
upon my own person, the likeness of their curious houses 
and dresses. 

** Before I had reached that people I had sometimes 
been for two days and two nights without tasting food. 
Although very weak, yet on procuring a meal, the 
relish was so delicious, and my sensations so new and 
pleasing, and mind and body so thrilled with exquisite 



S5S 

I 

happinesEi, that when dull or desponding, sick or weary,' | 
I frequently since have, amid plenty of the moat tempt- 
ing of meats and delicacies, abstained from eating sr 
drinking, for that length of time, purposely to treat 
myself with that exceeding enjoyment which is eme to 
result from such a practice. It seems to heal all di^ 
orders of soul and fmme, to revive the jaded powerv sf 
nature, yield a new and better existence, and heing 
within the reach of every person living, whether higli^ 
or low, rich or poor, is recommended to the example of 
whoever would ensure that satisfaction, which uninter<- 
rupted indulgence fails to produce in the breast of a hi»» 
man being. 

^'lalso discovered that much clothing is merely theofE- 
spring of habit, and that better health is enjoyed with as 
little of garment as modesty requires, than with as mucb 
as the' move refined nations use, whom I have seen. 
I have visited many people, lived with them as one of 
them, and some have tried to do as I did, and succeeded. 
A person in mature life, can, as I have seen, gradually 
essen the quantity of accustomed dress, until better 
health is established in a delicate frame, by making op 
in active exercise that wawnth of the body, which pre- 
viously was sought through the medium of multiplied 
folds of linen, cotton and woollen fabrics. I also discov- 
ered, that there is full and plenty of all things essential 
to our welfare, every where in the world to the person 
using the means intended by the Great Spirit. It was 
never meant that we should lie down, or loll about in- 
active, and sigh in vain for proper sustenance. Man 



253 

was made for aetioD, ali](K>8t cmitinual action. Intervals . 
of sound sleep supply new powers exhausted by previ^i 
ous exertion. Inactivity produces loss of appetite, indi- 
gestion^ restlessness of sluqiber, low-spirits and leads the 
natural^ dmple desires, a wild goose chase, or after un- * 
natural excitements and into unsatisfactory longings, . 
which art cannot compass. 

'^ Food is exuberant enough in the world for every 
living creature. To enable us to enjoy it, it is scattered 
over the earth and in the waters, on high tre^, and be- 
neath the ground, and a regular course of well directed 
labour will produce it in a field or collection of water. 
Time would hang heavy on our hands unless much of< 
it was occupied in catching fish or the game of the 
grove, gathering fruit and nuts from the trees, and ber- 
ries from the bushes. The skill and toil expended;, 
operate beneficially upon the animal powers, circulate 
the blood and open the pores, throw off all ill humors 
from the system, sharpen the appetite, digest what was 
previously in the stomach, give the nerves a proper tone, 
and the frame is prepared for a time of rest, which comes 
with positive enjoyment upon its wings. 

These are some of the ideas, which my experience 
has taught me. After I had been some months among 
Che peculiar people, of whom I last spoke, I traversed 
other countries, travelling as hospitality afforded me 
means, according to the customs respectively of the 
various nations I visited. Often on foot, now on horse* 
back, anon in a stage ; in one part of the world hold- 
ing upon the dromedary's form, and on other occassion. 



254 

ray person was canied across great waters in a structure, 
the representation of which, together with the pale 
faces who held dominion over the vessel, and moved it 
on the winds to and fro, I macked so distinctly upon my 
body, that your father could not doubt that I had seen 
such wonders, as entitled me to renown and the happy 
reward of fideUty in love. 

I also learned many languages and many interesting 
occurrences, which I impressed upon my memory so 
indelibly 7 that I could translate to your father many a 
pathetic story, which would draw tears from bis eyes, 
and others of such an entertaining nature, that the 
hearing of them would yield him much pleasure. I will 
tell them to you, as I heard them, or as they were read 
to me. ^ One is, a tale, which was called ^' Imlac aud 
Clara ; or, the Two Suicides,'* 



255 



IMLAC AND CLARA; 

OR, THE TWO SUICIDES. 

We talk of romances as being too extravagant in their 
narrations of incident ; too highly wrought in their de* 
scriptions of human felicity ; too soul-harrowing on their 
details of the marvellous ; and as having too much of 
the oriental order in their composition, to be susceptible 
of reasonable credence from any well regulated minds. 

But in real life, as this affecting and appalling narra^ 
live will show forth, there are as wonderful events, oc* 
curreoces and sufferings of the heart ; as sudden and 
surprising changes from elevated rank to obscurity, from 
dazzling opulence to abject poverty, from a bewildering 
maze of fashionable gaieties and pleasures down to the 
depths of wretchedness and destitution of all worldly 
comforts, and of even the merest necessaries of exist 
ence ; as even the wildest imagination of man or woman 
in its most feverish state of excitement has brought 
forth in the shape of a fabulous legend, or a tale of 
wonder. 

Most of the following facts are within the personal 
knowledge, and are familiar in the recent recollection 
of the present generation of the citizens of the two 
great commercial metropolises where they happened. 

The ead catastrophe, and the incidents of the few 



S56 

years which preceded that unhappy and astounding 
event, awakened an exceeding lively interest in the 
court circles, and even among the gentry and many of 
the still less elevated ranks in the place where they tran- 
spired, viz. : the mighty city of London — that focus of 
all virtues and vices ; that concentrated influence of 
the great movements of refined society throughout the 
dvilized world ; that grand centre of the rays ot ooni- 
merce and learning ; that world within itself ; ^heve 
together do ccmgregate the monarch and the mennesC 
wretch upon the earth, the thousands of active moral 
philosophers, philanthropists and religious benefacton 
of the human race by the side of the most depraved bxmA 
outlawed ; the poet, the histmani the prince, the high- 
wayman ; the Rothschilds, the potent sway of whcise 
golden sceptre is felt more or less among all the nations 
of the earth, and the starving mendicant who sinks into 
a grave from want of the food, clothing and shelter ee» 
sential to a mere preservation of animal life, a presarva 
tion of the blood from stagnating in the veins throu|^ 
lack of animal heat to circulate it, a preservation of the 
breathing powers from mere animal, starved exhaus- 
tion ; and oil that too while the gorgeous palaces of 
noble dukes are within the djring sight of the miseraMe 
creature who perishes for the want of the crumbs of vic- 
tuals, and dregs of wine goblets, which are swept away 
from lordly tables and shook from the rich door mats of 
these children of opulence, luxury and power, to *be 
lapped up by the surly mastifis and 'licking spanids 
which growl and bark at those starving beggars, and 



t57 . 

and which frighten away human starvellDgs from the 
scenes of pomp and abundance, where none flourish 
but princes, puppies, parasites, and servile menials — all 
equally intolerant and contemptible, whether the dig* 
nitary or the slave, in the consideration of a people of 
republican simplicity and purity of social life. 

Perchance my hearers niay pardon me for assigning 
fictitious names of persons and places, and embellishing 
my narrative with episodes to the main story, and intro^ 
ducing matters which might, save in the mercy of critics, 
GODvict poor, unhappy me of anachronisms as to times 
of history, and render me liable to severe strictures for 
yielding too far to the promptings of an exuberant fan- 
cy, (my fancy is obnoxious to the serious and over- 
whelming charge of being a creative one,) of resigning 
toy spirit of inspiration too willingly to the suggestings 
ef throwing aside some of the grossness and common* 
place of the tedious, every day familiarity of a vulgar 
adherence to day and date, word and thought, dress 
and language, circumstantial detail and testimony, as 
if upon oath in open court, and a legal, professional, 
technical, cross-examination style of slowly and cau- 
tiously developing to my audience, the rise, progress, 
and termination of the afiair in hand. 

I may ask indulgence for a trifle of poetical license, 
knowing, the while, that in the main, its a true story^ 
I may crave a partial and kind allowance for my cou^ 
fession, that in dictioh and phrase, in meretricious orna-^ 
ments, attractive gilding, and brilliant colouring of the 
showing up of my manufactured wares^ which I here 

22 



258 

offer to the public eye, and that in the more higfalj 
wrought scenes of the tale, founded on facts of real 
life, I have perpetrated all that I was capable of in th^ 
glowing fervour of a rhetorical working up of the 
reader's feelings, and I have not commended an adher 
rence to strictly yes and no evidence, as that man stood 
here, and that girl stepped there^ and such like par*-' 
ticularities of cross interrogatories and equity deposit 
tions. 

I have committed to the winds all fears of being 
prosecuted for perjury in any court of literature ; and if 
any honourable judge in criticism, and district attorney 
at the same tribunal, deem that I come within the painff 
and penalties, in having vowed this to be a true stc^, 
and choose to fling their authority and dignity into tbe 
arena against such a simple story teller as their humble 
servant ; why, then, forsooth, when 1 am demanded by 
the voice of the clerk of the court of criticism, whether 
having heard the indictment for perjury, in the falsifying' 
of facts under the sacred obligation of an honour hegoU 
ten oath, I, as the luckless culprit, plead " guilty or not 
guilty," 1 shall be fain to respond to the clerk's demand^ 
that I am guilty, and add, tb^tt I throw myself upon 
the mercy of the bench. That court is the public, and 
every reader, kind or censorious, is a member of it, whe- 
ther a venerable octogenarian grandfather, whd rebukes 
all romancing, or whether the reader be a fair, beautiful, 
and lovely young damsel, (of which readers I pray 
that I may enjoy the felicity of having many,) a sweet 
dispositioned maid, who will hear with avidity, and 



869 

•mile or weep, as I shall bid her to do, by means of the 
tale being merry or sai 

So now, good public and hearers all, my bow is made 
in true Parisian grace, with the air of a bon ton, and I 
have nought else left for me to do at the present mo- 
ment, but to invoke your earnest attention to a naiTa- 
tive which must make you all serious while you read, 
and reflect upon what you have read, a narrative whose 
soul-stirring incidents come home to the bosoms of the 
gay and happy of the busy metropolis, come home to 
the proud child of rank and pomp, as well as the lowly 
labourer ; to the opulent as well as the needy and desti- 
tute, and which inevitably compel us all, whether gay 
or giUve, old or young, to ponder solemnly upon the 
mutabiUty of human happiness ; upon the fluctuations 
of fortune, which now raise the child of mortality to 
the skies of enjoyment and pride, now prostrate to the 
dust, and hurl i^to the very depths of distress, wretch- 
edness, and destitute misery, almost past the conjectured 
of the most fertile imaginations, and indeed, not at all 
to be conceived of, except by those hapless beings who 
have actually suffered in the fall from comparative 
greatness to the dungeon deeps of despondency in mind 
and body, and wasting sorrow. 

In my story there is wealth, there is poverty, there is 
love, and a love unto death. Two fond creatures en- 
counter a horrid death together. Suicide is the closing 
act of two lovers who have been prostrated from the 
eminence of opulence into the dark abyss of poverty, 
utter destitution and despair. 



260 

And yet, only think of it, while the young man an(} 
the young woman were suffering from want, even con- 
tempUtingy in consequence, to relieve themselves from 
the fierce fangs of poverty, by a voluntary and accelerated 
death, to be haste;ied by their own suicidal hands, and 
while they were dying — money was in store for them. 
There were treasures seeking to get access to the poor 
wietches. The treasures lay untouched. The owners, 
near by, were perishing for want of a morsel of food to 
sustain exhausted nature. The treasures lay unknown 
and untouched. The proprietors sought the oblivion of 
the grave. It's silent and dark depths yawned open to 
them, and were welcomed by the wretches in all the 
horrors of their despair, and the grave's denotements. 
Death spread its pall on the fond couple. But, I hear 
you say, impatiently, to the details, to the details. 

Imlac S. Claremont was a favourite son of one of the 
roost conspicuous among the mercbij|it princes of a 
great city. 

He was educated in all the accomplishments of mind 
and body, that almost boundless wealth could procure 
the teaching of. 

Nursed in the lap of luxury, he merely knew of 
want and care, as something said to be unpleasant, 
which he had read about in books. 

There was nothing in the privacies of his father's 
splendid apartments to betoken poverty or destitution. 
The dwelling was a palace. The' furniture was most 
costly — rich chandeliers suspended from the lofty ceil- 
ings, gold and silver services of plate burdening the 



hospitable tables with- their massive preciousness, and 
shining in the pan tries and upon the sideboards. Ala- 
baster vases and urns ; human figures, in all the mys- 
tery and display of heathenish, mythological represen- 
tations, well protected by huge coverings of the clearest 
and most mirror-like glass cases, greeted the pleased 
eye upon the mantle and other shelves. No bare floors 
were suffered to exhibit their unsightly nakedness. 

Could it have been supposed by aa indifferent specta- 
tor of all this scene of opulence, luxury, indulgence and 
profusion, this absence of sorrow or suffering, of want 
or self-denial, that one of the most dashing and gay of 
the happy family, that the light-hearted young Imlac, 
the secoind son of this merchant prince, ever merry, 
generous, free, frolicsome and open-hearted, could it 
ever be conjectured by a spectator that he, this rich 
man's favorite boy could ever wanti God of heaven 1 
Want! Aye! Gaunt-eyed want ! That accomplished, 
rich vestured, liberal minded youth, to whom money 
seems dross, so freely does he squander it upon his ca- 
prices and his social humors, and among his boon com* 
panions ; that worshipped boy, his luxuriant curls, 
crowning temples of unruffled appearance, pouting lips 
ever smiling with the overflowing joyfulness of a happy 
heart, that glib tongue, that symmetrical forfn — all— 
all — Shall know want, poverty, care, disease, despair, 
death — a suicidal death. 

But we anticipate. Imlac is yet young, and in bliss, 
surrounded by all the ostentation of aristocratic rank 
and opulence. " 
22* 



t63 

Uafnlunately a ewarm of evil minded youngf men 
gathered^round him to partake of his coetly cheer, to 
share his well filled purse, fiUed too- full by a doating 
father. He drank and gamed, he visited the haunts d 
meretricious woman's beauty, and fascinating mercena- 
ry charms, whose attractions destroy the silly swain, 
who longs for and loves their dangerous sweetnesses. 

At this critical period of our hero's Ufe, his fatJbw, 
Mr. Claremont, departed from this world, and jroung 
Imlac was left an orphan and an heir at the same time. 
His accession to a vast fortune, of some thirty thousand 
dollars per annum, the partial gift of a partial parent, 
doing injustice to the other children, did not depreciate 
the avidity with which young Imlac sought pleastire , 
and drank deep of its intoxicating beverage. 

He resolved to visit Europe, and try if there vras not 
something new in life, to be found in London, Rome or 
Paris. The joys of his native country had already be- 
come monotonous to his soul's susceptibilities, although 
Imlac Claremont was not yet twenty-four years of age. 

Behold him now, a passenger in a floating palace, a 
noble ship, bound for the commercial city of Liverpool. • 
He arrives at the destined port, treads upon the firm 
shores of England's domain, and island home of great- 
ness, science, and the world's wealth. 

He loses no time to depart for the important, the fas- 
cinating London. There all that gold can buy, the 
individual that, has the golden talisman may procure, to 
gratify the eye, the ear, the palate, the sensibilities and 
susceptibilities to pleasure. ^ 






263 

Hftppy Imlac reaches the capital. Hh metises are 
bewildered with the blaze of splendid exhibitions of pa- 
lacesy equipages rattling and thundering) and dashing 
and whirling along the streets. He goes to the theatre, 
the opera, exclusive circles, and the court of majesty 
and power. His wealth and respectability at home 
procured him introductory letters to the great and to 
the wise. Every company was open to him, and his 
time fled on rosy wings, in one delicious dream of suc- 
xcessive enjoyments and dissipations. 

A woman. Ah 1 in that one word woman, what 
perils lurk. Imlac met at a masquerade a sylph, whose 
almost more than earthly charms, were a fatal spell 
around his heart and intellect. They were introduced ^ 
to each other. They conversed, they danced together, 
and their hands often touched in the mazes of the 
giddy dance. Her name was Clara West. Imlac was 
enraptured with her wit and humor, the delicacy of her 
v(Hce, the music of her tongue, and the ripeness of her 
lip. Her gentle bosom seemed to entertain similar in- 
clinations and feelings towards his fine person and 
manner, his manly bearing and apparent openness of 
heart and gaiety of soul. They were both tall and well 
shaped. His form for man^ and hers for woman, were 
rare forms of proud personal beauty and excellence. 
After the evening had passed in hilarity, during which 
Clara and Imlac did not separate, but remained side by 
dde in the mutual delight of each other's companion- 
ship, Imlac and Clara entered the same carriage. He 
could not quit ber presence, until he saw her safely 



t64 

housed and by her mother's bearih-stone. tlaying re- 
ceived an invitation to visit the family frequently, he 
bade Clara adieu, kissed his hand to her blushing 
cheek and sparkling eyes, and entered his own coach 
which had accompanied Clara's coach to the dwelling. 

All night Imlac dreamed of Clara. His sleeping 
senses gave her lovely image to him, as be had beheld 
her when awake. In fancy, he declared his full love to 
her abashed and retiring modesty of deportment. She 
listened with patience, did not chide him, nor check 
his vows and protestations of eternal love and fidelity, 
she hung her lovely head, and deeming her silence to 
be favourable, he construed it even into a return of love. 
He clasped her form in his arms, and with a tender em- 
brace, imprinted a gentle, ardent, and burning kiss of 
passionate love upon her ruby lip. He awoke, and it 
was all a dream. He did not sleep any more that 
night. 

Clara West was the only daughter of a rich widow. 
The father had been in the East Indies, engaged in the 
political business of the government of England, and, 
in his civil employment, had accumulated a large for- 
tune. 

The next day he called again upon her, and said he 
hoped that the fatigue of the evening had not impair- 
ed her spirits, or disqualified her for a renewal of gaiety 
m the ensuing evening. She declared that she had 
slept off all her fatigue ; she seemed to him a being 
somewhat like himself, formed to enjoy life in all its 
greatest zest, — 



865 

Suffice it to say, that they frequently met, becamo 
more delighted with each other ; and to the world it 
wsa a match. 

The mother grew sick. She lingered for months, 
and after having prepared her mind for quitting this 
sublunary scene, she resigned her breath to the Being 
which gave it at her birth. Mrs. West was no more an 
inhabitant of this world of many griefs, and transitory 
scenes of wealth and poverty, and health and disease. 

Alas I Imlac's mind, was not the dignified one, which 
could act with a becoming propriety in all the greater 
and more important scenes of life. Ridicule could 
wither his noblest conceptions of a course of future 
conduct* When his gay companions laughed at his 
ideas of tying up his free powers and privileges in the 
shackling and degrading bond of matrimony, no more 
to rove among the bachelor-resorts of licentious men, be 
felt himself shrink from an imagined slavery. But he 
loved Clara. Alas ! he knew not bow to love, purely and 
with a life love. It was personal charms then, he 
adored, and not the character, heart, sentiment, and self 
of Clara — to pass with her thro' prosperity and adversi- 
ty, thro' ripeness of beauty in form and feature, and 
thro' a fading of the physical attractions of complexion, 
smooth unwrinkled brow, and sparkle of bright eye. 

And yet, Imlac showed by subsequent devotion, that 
poverty at least, did not shake his affection; altho' poverty 
aggravated by all the bittern^s of despair, did wither 
away all the independence of bis mind, all the courage 
of a man to stand to the post of danger, and poor Imlac, 



t66 

it will be hereafter seen, did at last cowardly desert life, 
affrighted at the gloomy prospect, foolishly affrighted at 
a prospect which was not real, but only imaginary. But 
again, we are anticipating. 

The same imbecility of intellect which finally 
drove Imlac into a death-desperation, prevented him 
from presenting his legal and honorable address to Cla- 
ra. But her person was too lovely for him to yield her 
to another. 

Shall I tell how Imlac whispered unhallowed love in 
Clara's pure ear ? Shall I tell how Clara's too suscepti- 
ble heart, yielded itself up to the destroyer of its honor? 
If I wish to be a faithful historian, my pen must not 
falter now, nor my nerve tremble, because unpleasant 
truths are to be the theme of my essayings. 

I will not detail all the false philosophy, or rather the 
subtle sophistry which unsettled Clara's principles, 
which prostrated her virgin innocence at the feet of li- 
centious man. In fact, the fall from virtue to vice was 
so gradual and imperceptible in its gradations, that Cla- 
I'a and Imlac scarcely knew themselves when or how vir- 
tue was exiled, and when or how its opposite quality was 
welcomed to their bosoms and the minds of the yet 
happy pair. 

Hours, days, weeks, months, years winged their 
passage, and all was felicity and secret, hoarded enjoy- 
ment, altho' they tenanted separate mansions. 

The immense wealth of both Clara and Imlac suffi- 

« 

ced to gratify every wish, g,nd the woild only knew them 
as a foQc} couple, and wondered w^h&t obstacle intenrte-. 






■/■' 



267 

ed between their courtship, and the exquisite eonsuiu^r 
matioQ of their loves, in the wedding ceremony, which 
would unite their fates in one and for life. The 
world wondered why the day was not fixed for the nup- 
tialsj why they still continued to be merely a maiden 
wooed by a favored swain, and a wealthy lover seeking 
the spotless hand of a lovely and loving maiden. Alas \ 
how often is the world at fault, in other instances, io 
other views of peoples' private and domestic affairs. 

No opulence will endure the trial of a too great profu- 
sion of expenditure. Order and economy must exist in 
the household, and in the pecuniary afiairs of every fa^- 
mily, and of every political State Government, or else 
embarrassment and even ruin are sure to ensue. 

Imlac and Clara knew not economy. They literally 
threw away their wealth for baubles, gewgaws, vain 
display and wild dissipation, and no real, heartfelt satis* 
faction. 

Clara left the control of her estate to Imlac, and Im- 
lac left it to his steward. 

The steward feathered his owa nest, and encouraged 
the bounteousness and extravagance of Imlac and Cla- 
ra. At length the steward was missing. Nobody knew 
what had become of him. But Imlac and Clara soon 
found to their sorrow and horror, what had become of 
their money. It was all gone, either expended by the 
couple, or abstracted fraudulently by the steward. But 
this was the dreadful denouement. Money was not to 
be had* 
. Imlac and Clara were one fatal evening tricked out in 



t68 

all the finery of London ; Imlac was welcoming into hi§ 
hospitable mansion, the guests who were to pass an eve- 
ning of hilarity in his richly furnished apartments: 
Clara had also arrived and was welcomed in with the 
rest. It had been the custom of Clara u> send all per- 
sons who called on. her upon pecuniary matters, to the 
house of Imlac, as he was considered by the world to be 
her destined husband. 

The guests crowded in. The great and rich were 
there. The noble and the high ranked hero of the army, 
and the choice spirits of the navy. Suddenly a distur« 
bance was heard in the hall, of persons contending with 
loud voice and noisy movements of feet and hands. 
*^ We must go in, we must go in" (were words heard to 
be uttered) *^ we have a warrant to seize all the furni- 
ture for Mr. Mercer's silk bill, and he will not be put off 
any longer." 

The awful danger, rushed upon the mind of Imlac* 
Mr. Mercer had a large claim for goods sold, and moneys 
advanced too, against Imlac. He had frequently called 
upon Indac's steward, and unable to obtain payment 
had applied as frequently to Imlac himself. Imlac spoke 
of the claims to the steward, entreated that it might be 
paid and settled. The unworthy and fraudulent steward 
had postponed the payment under one frivdous pretence 
after another, as the debt was very considerable, and the 
steward wished to save so much for himself. The ste- 
ward had fled, and now Mr. Mercer, and his officers of 
justice, had come to seek property to defray the heavy 
charges, which there appeared to bqno other prospect of 



<69 

1)avit)g liquidated, than by means of an execution upon 
the splendid furniture. 

Amid all the gaiety of the festive throng, and the 
wildest of the hearty cheer, the officers, with Mr. MeN 
cer, the infuriated tradesman at their head, entered the 
apartment. Dismay and mortification of pride seemed 
to rule for the next moment. Some of the guests started 
to their feet, hastily seized their hats and cloaks and 
disappeared. Others endeavored to prevent the officers 
from removing the furniture, and Clara horror struck, 
threw her lovely self, trembling and agitated to the 
extremest degree, into the arms of her beloved, and now 
affiicted Imlac. 

In an hour, by aid of the servants, whose assistance 
the officers commanded, the costly hangings were tcM*n 
from the windows, bedsteads and walls. The tasteful 
carpets were pulled up. The tables, chairs, porcelaiDi 
plate, cutlery — all — all the beautiful decorations and 
fine settings of the mansion were taken from the apart 
ments and halls, and nothing left behind but naked 
walls and a weeping couple — Clara and Imlac. All 
the guests were gone before the last chair had been 
taken. 

A number of servants were instantly despatched to 
Claia's house. Alas ! the fangs of th^ law had been 
4here too. The house was a wilderness. The wily 
steward had managed matters so nicely for his own safe- 
ty,4bat he had delayed his departure, until his flight 
became absolutely essential, and there was nothing now 
to be gained to his -interest by further dilatoriness. Tho 
23 



270 

tragedy was finished at both houses on the same eve* 
Ding. 

No tongue can describe, no pen or pencil can depict 
the dreadful feelings of Clara and Inolac, when the 
returning menials, abruptly broke upon the startled 
ear of the two lovers, the awful tidings of their 
utter and mutual ruin. They icnew that all the 
harpies of the law would be let loose upon their houses 
and lands and other personal property, the next day, by 
a host of clamorous, greedy, avaricious creditors, to 
whom immense amounts were due, which the steward 
had in his devices suffered to accumulate to their great 
state of more than the wealth of the two sufficed to de- 
fray. 

Together they walked the floor all night, arm in 
arm, a prey to the most horrid thought^ anxieties, and 
agitating hopes and fears. 

The ensuing day had not passed over, when they 
already found themselves without a home, without a 
shelter from the night air, or the coming storm, or the 
insolent stare of the passers by. 

Their whole property was seized. They had nothing* 
in the wide world which they could call their own, but # 
the gay, festive garments in which their persons were 
clad, and a few trinkets which they had hastily con- 
cealed about their habiliments, and about thirty guineas 
which was in Imlac's purse. 

Arm in arm they went to a Hotel. They spoke to 
the host of the Hotel. They said naught about their 
connection as two l6vers, betrothed^and to be wadded ; 



871 

nor hinted at the truth. They merely applied /or an 
apartmeni. 

The Hotel was in one of the retired streets of Lon- 
don, and they resolved to remain there, as a married cou- 
ple. A comfortable room was assigned to them, and 
money paid in advance for a month's residence and pro- 
vision from the stores of the well supplied larder of the 
Hotel. 

They passed here the first awful night in the same 
chamber. Neither of them slept until near morning, 
when nature, exhausted by the previous nights*' wake- 
fulness added to this, and the fatigue of body, and dis- 
traction of mind they had undergone, could not have 
her immutable and universal laws frustrated and de- 
tspised. Entirely overcame and exhausted they dept, 
and thus were temporarily relieved from a state of mind 
which would soon have deprived them of reason, 
leaving them to be a melancholy spectacle of in- 
sanity brought on by inordinate grief and depression of 
spirits. 

They were considered as husband and wife, and were 
addressed by the Host as Mr. and Mrs. Claremont. 
They did not visit. They were not visited. They con- 
versed with none in the house except the Host and such 
menials as it became necessary for their comfort to pro- 
cure the services of. 

Only one day^ they went out in the street. That 
was, for the purpose of procuring more proper garments 
than their finery, which had been put on for an occasion 
of festivity. *^ 



Most of their money was expended for this clothing; 
As the month, for which they had paid eight guineas in 
advance was near expiring, they knew that more money 
would be expected by the Host from them, if they con* 
tinned over the expiration of that period. Their money 
was gone, save a few shillings, and they did not know 
which way to procure more. At last, they concluded, to 
visit the shop of a pawnbroker, pledge their whole re- 
maining wardrobe of costly stuffs, and substitute cheap- 
er and coarser wear, and retire to some more humble and 
secluded lodgings better befitting their poverty, and 
consider what next was to be done. 

Gracious Grod, what awful consequences attend upon 
a life of extravagance and profusion. Reduced to tako 
refuge in a garret, clad in the meanest attire, behold 
this former heir and heiress. But one little month pre- 
vious to this, they were both rolling in wealth and en- 
joying every pleasure of high life. He in his palace. 
She in hers. Now, see them, lying upon a pallet of 
straw, side by side, in a gloomy garret, the abode of po- 
verty and want, the scene of heart-sickening wretched- 
ness. 

Here they remained, until the pawnbroker's supply to 
their finances was drained to the last penny. Despair 
and starvation stared them in the face. 

It was midnight. There was a tempest abroad. The 
winds of heaven howled about the building, and shook 
the frail casements of the fragile tenement in which the 
despairing Clara and Imlac lay, stretched upon their 
pallet of straw, contemplating a covoipg death, aggra- 



873 

rated by all the horrors of starvation. What kindly In 
fluences he must have exercised over Clara's mind, to 
inspire in her bosom such a devoted fondness for him, as 
to keep her by his side, when he was starving, when 
they were both starving, when, at the same time, she 
might have thrown her charms and accomplishments of 
mind into the possession of some licentious son of opu* 
lence, who would have decked her person in gaudy 
attire, and supplied her with all the luxuries of the 
London market, and all the gaieties of the metropolis. 
But no, she had not so much fallen. She never loved 
but Imlac, and him she Ipved even unto death. 

While all this suffering was endured by Imlac and 
Clara, there was money for him at the Post office. A 
friend in New York had remitted a bill of exchange by 
letter, whose amount was sufficient to have put him in 
easie and competence for a time. 

But Imlac knew not that Providence had interfered 
80 much in his behalf. He believed himself to have 
forfeited the esteem and encouraging smiles of all the 
world. He believed himself to be a wretch about to 
perish with hunger. 

As J said, it was midnight, and they lay side by side, 
listening to the battling of the warring elements, which 
rocked their humble and obscure dwelling to and fro. 
They talked of death. " We will not die thus,'' (sud- 
denly exclaimed Imlac, starting upon his feet) " I will 
not behold my beloved Clara perish thus." 

He seized his hat atid clothes, and was rushing 
scarce clad out of tEe room, when Clara flew to him, 
23* 



»74 

clHUg around his neck, and cried ** what would yt^ 
do, what would you do, my dear Imlac f* 

^ I am going to get money** he muttered m mllen 
mood, and only in scarce audible tones, *' money, money, 
money.** 

« Where, Imlac 1** 

'^ From the purse of the first passer by whom I shall , 
meet, stop, threaten, and plunder.** 

'*0h! Heaven!** shrieked Clam, *<you shall not 

go** 
The unfortunate girl, was still clinging to Imlttc's 

neck, and hanging upon his breast, shedding teats plen« 
tifully, and shuddering as an aspen leaf trembles in the 
breezes of heaven. He could not unloose her hold, and 
as the folly, danger, and horrid consequences likely to 
ensue from such a desperate action rushed upcm his 
mind, he suffered her to drag him to the bed, and they 
both fell upon it ; and for some time, naught disturbed 
the awful silence within, but the occasional sw'eep of 
the tempest over the roof, and the groans of hapless Im- 
lac, and the sobs, and half-stifled agonized breathings 
of the despairing, yet lovely Clara West. 

** We will die, Clara,** moaned Imlac. 

** We will die, Imlac,'* responded Clara. 

Imlac rose from the bed. Clara watched him in as 
much silence as her tears and sighs would permit. She 
saw him put a parcel of live coals from the charcoal jfire, 
into a red pan, and stand it by the bedside^ He stopped 
up all the crevices of the room, the seams of the doors, 



S70 

mid Cbe windows^ and the doors of two cupboardii with 
strips of paper pasted into the crevices. 

He then went to the mantle shelf. A phial of lauda* 
num was there, and an open razor had been lying near 
it for many days. It seems that he had previously con< 
templated using the one or the other. He had not been 
shaved for many days, and his dress was neglected. He 
lifted up the razor, then again laid it down. He iock up 
the laudanum, then put it away again. He then un- 
dressed himself, laid down on the bed by Clara's side, 
and covered his person with a thin, worn out blanket. 
Clara was dressed in her humble and coais» attire. 
Neither of the couple spoke a word. 

These remarkable doings and the conveisation above 
set forth, were overheard and seen by a servant of the 
house, thro' a break in a part of a plank in the side of 
the garret, until Imlac happening to perceive the open- 
ing in the plank, without discerning the person on the 
other side, as a person could not be seen in the spot 
which the spectator occupied, rose from the bed, and 
stopped up the opening. 

The servant went down into the kitcheny and com- 
municated the circumstances and facts to an old wo- 
man, who could not explain or expound the mystery of 
the affair. The servant did not know that burning char- 
coal in a close room would suffocate the inmates of the 
room unto death. Had the servant known the scienti- 
fic principle, he would have prevented the sad catas- 
trophe. 

The next day^the old woman to whom the fiiets had 



•/*.r7 t - r r . -,':#.': ^ ' .- -\^ iojx if "b.?' nitg 
I^A^p'^tv:' " 'i'*'. ■'■■ *rf*f!. A-1 "VE* -riil. ^7521 

Kn«K*y. n:/. 'i v: . -. ^- i* - .r^.i**: in«v!i x 'iie kseoer if 

T'i^ i-iM^.^r-f y-.-.r.V*': *• •;■.* 'fxr. AH Tras *Z:eiL 
«t I n > ", a r, * * ♦ ' ^ r.'.«* '• -rr. • '.-* 5pa.-.ineti.c of ifeadL 
Th^ ku'^x ■*»>.* -:".'/■>.'• ^A. T.i^-*: xi.= no ocher response 
>^i f. t h^, *'^. ir, <, of * ;. ': /c r. or X' , * ;. :v ' h > ill f lim L=hed build- 
in^. Th^, Isjryllor! ?;:i^ ??.* or.h*rs present became 
9iUtrtfi*'ji. TJrity h i.-^f. ir> rh^ d^XjT-.. Gracious God ! 

Th^r^. ij(/.fj th*; fc.rr^iw frnllf-j^ lay the corpses of the 
f//fid ^oupk, «h': I/':** y,ri f'jnd daughter of irealth and 

lml''iV*, f;i'-.«: v.;^^ r/i!jcli di.-:tr»rted. The countenaDce 
€ff i\ni Mv/'-^tt. Cl-ira v.rr-; 5-^reri<r, and she seemed to be 
iimilin(( Jri a \/if:ri :ii'j (Lkjiui, Young Claremont was 
uut\n'Mm'j\j ?i -haw I partly around his person , and close- 
ly n.w\ liffhily rlijfrhcfJ iu hi-f ri;Tht hand. They were 
rlonn to t'.tirAi other, hoth were ?ipon their backs and 
th«ir tiyt^n wide open. 

All Hm? itiMiateH of the house gathered in the room 
nUrarJed hy the fltatemcnts of one or two who had g-one 
down Htairw. The neighbors came in, and at lenoth the 
(/oroner rmule hiH appearance. 

In the evidence produced before the Coroner's In- 



277 

quest, the above facts were detailed, and also, it was 
proved that a large sum of money was in a letter, en- 
dorsed to an acquaintance of Claremont for him, who 
could not find the latter, altho' he searched all Ldndon 
for the unhappy object of the Coroner's investigations. 
The money had been sent from Claremont's native city, 
but alas I it had come too late. 

Such was the lamentable catastrophe which crown- 
ed, with its horrible climax, the actions and lives of the 
once rich Imlac Claremont and Clara West. 

Another sUxy is that called *^ The Missed Ship.** 



f78 



THE MISSED SHIP. 

I HAD a friend, one with whom I passed many a mer« 
ry hour. He went to sea. I received a letter from him 
dated at a place several thousands of miles from, my 
home. He was going in a leaky unseaiworthy ship, 
around a stormy cape ; but the captain hoped, by seiz- 
ing a favorable time, to weather the point safely, and he 
was anxious to take the vessel to a certain port to re- 
pair. Many years have gone by since I received that 
letter, and no tidings of its writer since the day of his 
sailing have reached the harbor from whence the ship 
departed, or the destined one, nor any place where anx- 
ious^ relatives l)ave made inquiry. It is generally be- 
lieved that the whole crew perished on the wide ocean, 
by the fury of a tempest which occurred about the time 
they were missed, and which passed over a wide extent 
of the sea where they were supposed to have been du- 
ring its greatest rage. 

How many conjectures have haunted my brain at 
morn, noon, midnight, about my friend's fate. His name 

was Charles W and I have scribbled it often over 

whole sheets of paper, wiiile I have been conversing 
upon indifferent subjects. Sometimes fancy whispers he 
lives, and mourns upon some far off ocean isle, for the 
home he can never visit, unless a lucky chance shotrld 



279 

bring a visiter there from civilized society. Frequently 
when sleep has been suddenly broken, in the still hour 
of the night 'by some internal emotion, have my first 
thoughts been wandering away, away, to a sinking 
ship. In my mind's eye, I saw the engulfing waves, 
dashing over struggling human forms, struggling for a 
moment's longer existence. In imagination I could hear 
the shrieks of the despairing mariners, and listen to the 
roar of the hurricane among the cordage. It was a ship 
of war, and there were six hundred men on board. 
What a population to be clinging to one frail barque for 
the tenure of life. Hqw many might have escaped the 
immediate vortex, occasioned by the descending bulk of 
such a huge assemblage of wood, cannon, (she carried 
sixty-four guns,) and all the furniture and appendage of 
so vast an armament 1 How long did poor, shivering, 
starving wretches float about, along, and over the 
waves upon casks, spars or slight materials, which per- 
haps just enabled the survivors to catch now and then a 
breath from the atmosphere, by stretching to the utmost 
their necks out of the choking, briny element which 
seemed sportingly to mock their useless efforts, to pro- 
tract vitality long. 

How the lashing billow would roll over their drooping 
heads, and then permit them to inhale, for a moment, 
a trifling portion of air, not to kill them outright ; as 
tho' the sea was a cruel creature of prey, which loved to 
torture its victim to death, and divert itself with all the 
variety of its dying agonies — the gasp for breath — the 
shriek of horror at some coming mountain of water-^— ^ 



t80 

fh6 grasp at the constantly crumbling support, whoM 
portions were successively torn away piecemeal, by the 
violent concussion of a mass of liquid, falling quick 
upon it — the shuddering of mingled emotions of fear 
and chill from the cold embrace of the water, and all 
the preceding symptoms of a final dissolution. Oh ! 
Charles ! Charles ! that I should live and ponder from 
year to year upon the mystery which enshrouds your 
last hour. Perhaps to my latest consctousnessi when 
old agpe shall benumb my limbs, I may still form a bun« 
dred conjectures, and the dreadful silence never be dis* 
turbed as to the melancholy particulars of what it is but 
too probable, was a most awful scene of human wretch" 
edness and dreadful sufferings. 
The next story is « The Drunken Wife/ 



281 



THE DRUNKEN WIFE. 

A SAD task it is^ to trace the progress of a fair female 
from the gay and accomplished belle of nineteen, to the 
bloated and loathsome object of even menial scorn, the 
victim of that accursed invention, that vulture which 
gnaws the vitals of many a modem Prometheus — ^need 
I write the hateful words, ardent spirits ) An acquain- 
tance of mine, who formerly lived in an inlimd, large 
town of England, related to me some circumstances 
which occurred in his neighborhood, and which were 
melancholy enough. 

There was a highly respectable family, one member 
of which was a damsel, who seemed formed to be the 
pride and stay of her parents when they should decline 
into the vale of years. Permit me to draw her picture, 
for I have conversed so often with my informant about 
her, that I almost fancy I have seen her as she was, in 
all the charms of youthful graces. 

Just before she was out of her teens, she was one of 
the loveliest creatures living, all life and frolic, bound- 
ing from apartment to apartment or along the verdant 
lawn, as if she was of aerial birth, too airy to be fasten- 
ed to the dull, base earth. She could not be said to have 
very handsome features, yet there was an expressive- 
24 



ft8t 

neifl which glowed from the eye, lip, brow and eheeki 
indicating a soul alive to the softest touth of sentiment^ 
and likely to sympathize devotedly in another's woes. 
The color of the hair and eye was black as that of the 
sloe, and the eyebrows were beautifully arched as if by 
dame Nature's most skillful workmanship, and was tru- 
ly pleasing to look upon. The small neck was swan- 
like, and its lengthened gracefulness attracted every 
one's attention, as soon as the beholder stood in her pre- 
sence. A well turned and tapering arfn was terminft^ 
ted by a hand and fingers whose exquisite shape seem- 
ed as if moulded by some fairy to show how much Iove«- 
liness might be put into the portion of her person. 
When she walked, the symmetry of her whole 
figure showed to great advantage, and in every inotion, 
there was an involuntary display of some captivating air 
which filled the spectator with delight. Her voice wa» 
melody itself, and fell upon the ear in a most agreeable 
cadence. 

She was the object of an attachment, which all par- 
ties considered worthy of approval. She reciprocated 

the passion, and young Edward D was busily pre^ 

paring for the nuptial ceremonies. There was a con- 
siderable fortune on both sides, and the time preceding 
the marriage was filled in the two lovers' minds by the 
brightest visions of future bliss. The wedding was cele* 
brated in a very splendid manner, and the honeymoon 
soon passed away without any alloy. 

The husband did sometimes think that Mrs. D. ap- 
peared to enjoy her glass of wine, and was glad that sbA 



283 

did not evince a hypocritical and pretended aversion to 
so proper a beverage. Sometimes she would be absent 
from the room a sHort time, and return with eyes glisten* 
ing, and her manner changed slightly into rather more 
than her wonted levity. Her breath betrayed that she 
had been refreshing herself with solitary and secret po- 
tation, not inviting him to partake with her, nor men- 
tioning the fact of her having tasted aught. He let 
that pass. Many a night she repeated this, just before 
they retired to repose, and her slumbers he thought were 
Father sudden and heavy not to have been procured by 
some intoxicating draught. 

He wisely reflected that this custom might establish 
itself into an inveterate habit, and sometimes du- 
ring the day ventured to hint to her that she might in- 
jure her health by such a practice. She was rather 
angry, and stoutly denied that his suspicions were well 
founded, and wondered how he could think that she 
would privately, and not in his society use such an in- 
dulgence. He discovered, then, tha tshe seemed blinded 
to her own errors, or obstinately bent upon cherishing 
the fatal course, and endeavoring to persuade him that 
it was otherwise. Now indeed he became alarmed. 
There was no obvious cause for her wishing to dr«wn 
reason that he knew of. He loved her, and all the luxu- 
ries of life were theirs. 

At last, she was in the noonday light, more than once 
seen in actual intoxication, being borne off to her bed in 
a helpless state. The unhappy husband sighed in se- 
cret, and would sit for hours, gazing vacantly around 



284 

him, and brooding in anguish of mind over the prospec- 
tive ruin of so much loveliness, and the blight which 
had already fallen upon the fertility of his own dear 
hopes. 

They had offspring. A daughter saw the light upon 
the anniversary of their marriage. This new object 
seemed to concentrate all the mother's thoughts upon 
its infant wants. The father could not behold the babe 
nourishing its existence from the fountain which Hea- 
ven always provides, without emotions of a new and 
pleasing kind, and for a while all seemed to be well— 
the past sorrowful recollections gradually faded from his 
mind. Too soon were they renewed, by a retiun of 
the evil which bad threatened so dreadfully. She grew 
worse than ever, in fits of inebriation would attempt to 
rush into the street, and force was necessary to control 
her movements. 

Not long did her charms of person survive the fatal 
effects of her irregularities. Bloodshot eyes, mishapen 
limbs, and an unwieldy and ugly form supplied the lost 
beauties which had hovered about her, and disease soon 
laid hands upon the once fascinating young bride. One 
morning madness seized her brain, and rushing up thro' 
the garret to the top of the house, she leaped from the 
roof, and was found upon the earth a mangled bleeding 
corpse. 

The devotion of her husband had been so strong, that 
her unhappy frailty had affected his mind too deeply for 
him ever to recover his equanimity. The shock which 
the violent manner of his beloved's death gave to his 



285 



already enfeebled frame, completely unmamied him, 
and his little daughter was soon left an orphan, to strug* 
gle alone in this contentious world, and her person and 
her large fortune were to be at the mercy of strangers. 



After these stories had been related by Eonto, and he 
had stated that it must have been some good spirit, who 
had supematurally prevented Kawnee's marriage, he 
retired with his beloved to a favorite grove, where she 
recounted to him her sorrows, and learned that grief for 
her death, had brought him also to the grave, and thus 
into her company, and where the priest, who altho' yet 
a mortal, was permitted to hold converse with other te- 
nants of the celestial regions. This favored man was 
conducted back to earth, and passed a long life in en- 
lightening the minds of his fellow creatures, which the 
supernatural meaiis of knowledge which had blessed 
him eminently, enabled him to do. 

These Indian Legends, which contain some accounts 
of civilized society, very accurate, yet being with some 
knacronisms, show that the aborigines mingle with re- 
cent occurrences and knowledge, evidently traditions of 
olden time. Blending them together, they are told from 
father to son, as if they were all really remote events. 
Probably the Indians heard from traders, the recent sto- 
ry of the late I c, S ^r, C ^n, of the city of 

New York, and of his melancholy fate in London, and 
also the account of the conjectured loss of the Q4 gun 



ship the O' H s, Capt. C 1, with a crfew rf 

600 men off Cape Horn, A. D. 1826, on her voyage from 
Valparaiso to Buenos Ayres, and that the unlettered sa- 
vages in their ignorance have confounded dates. For 
" Imlac and Clara*' and ** The Missed Ship,** are ama- 
zingly like the events I have just alluded to. This will 
ex{4ain an apparent inconsistency in the celestial mai- 
den's story, part of which may have been derived from 
a remote period and part learned as I have mentioned. 
With these remarks, the volume is closed, merely ad- 
ding, that with regard to the people in the neig^hborhood 
where our heroine, the once Lucy Ford (now Wiltiams) 
endured so much, they are quite charmed with the 
prospect of reading her story in print, and perchance 
the scene of her solitary sufferings will beconke tbe oIk 
ject of general curiosity, to have a visit from many a 
wayfarer, who hearing the tale, and passing within a 
reasonable distance of the spot, may make it a point to 
declare, that he has been to the very hut and cave, 
where so many years, resided in loneliness^ the celebra* 
ted Female R(^inson Crusoe. 



THE END. 









'Y 



I . 



H- 



bi' 



t : 



.t 



. I .lili. 

hi-;' I < I > II 
f l" ■ 1^' ■ 



I ' H I 

■' ? ' 'J 

r 



I.-'- ;; . 

■V • ■! ' ■ 

I- I , 



APR 1*4 1954 




