THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

OP 

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 




40 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF 



KOBINSON CRUSOE. 



I WAS* born of a good family in the city of York, \t heve my 
father, who was a native of Bremen, had settled after h is having 
got a handsome estate by merchandise. My brain v /as early 
filled with rambling thoughts, and when I grew up, my father 
often persuaded me to settle to some business, and my mother 
used the tenderest entreaties ; yet nothing could p' revail on me 
to lay aside my desire of going to sea, notwith istanding the 
extreme uneasiness which my father and mother ' always showed 
at the thoughts of my leaving them. I hardened . myself against 
the prudent and kind advice of my indulger^t parents : and 
being one day at Hull, I met with one of my 'companions, who 
was going to sea in his father's ship, he easily persuaded me to 
go with him. 

On the 1st of September, 1651, I went on board I'his rship, 
which was bound for London, and without letting m.y f: ather 
know the rash and disobedient step I had taken, set sail ; but 
no sooner was the ship out of the Humber, than the wind oegan 
to blow, and the sea to rise in a most terrible manner. I aving 
never been at sea before, I was extremely sick, and m^ mind 
was filled with terror. I then began to grow sensible of my 
wickedness, in disobeying the best of parents. 

The next day the wind abated, and the sea grew c aim ; I 
was no longer sick, and my companion laughed at nr ly fears. 
The weather continued calm for several days, and we a ,t length 
came into Yarmouth Roads, where we cast anchor to wait for 
a wind. On the eighth day, in the morning, the wind i. ncreased, 
and we had all hands at work to strike our top^mast/ % and to 
cast our sheet-anchor. I now began to see terror an< i amaze- 
ment in the faces even of the seamen themselves ; an d as the 
master passed by me, I could hear him say softly to himself, 
**Lord be merciful to us, we shall be lost.'' When I heard 
this I was terribly frightened ; such a dismal sight . I never 
before saw, the sea ran mountains high, and broke upon us 
every three or four minutes. The storm still increas ed, and I 
saw (what is but too seldom seen) the master, the boats iwain, and 
8«Y©i'al others at prayers, expegting that every momeD it the ship 



4 



ivould go to the bottom. The storm, however, began to abate, 
the master fired guns for help, and a light ship which had rode 
it out just a-head of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was 
with the utmost hazard that it came near us ; and our men 
casting a rope over the stern with a buoy, they after much 
labour and hazard got hold of it, and we, hauling them close 
«nder the stern, got all into the boat. But we had hardly left 
the ship a quarter of an hour, when we saw her founder. My 
heart seemed dead within me, with fright, horror of mind, and 
the thoughts of what was yet before me. As it was impossible 
for the boat to get up with the ship to which she belonged, we 
endeavoured to reach the shore ; and partly by rowing and 
partly by being driven by the waves, we at last with great 
difficulty got to land, and walked to Yarmouth. 




Had 1 1 low liad the sense to return home, my father would 
have recei ved me with tenderness ; but a weak and foolish 
shame opp osed all thoughts of it. I remained some time ip^ 



5 



doubt what course to take, but having money in my poeket, I 
travelled to London by land. 

On my arrival in that city, I happily contracted an acquaint- 
ance with the master of a ship who had been on the coast o£ 
Guinea : taking a fancy to me, he told me, that if I would go 
the voyage with him, I should be at no expense ; and if I would 
carry any thing with me, I should have the at?vantage of trading 
for myself. Encouraged by this offer, by the a.^sistance of some 
of my relations, with whom I still corresponded, J raised forty 




pounds, which I laid out in sucli toys and trifles, as he directed 
me to buy. But though in this voyage I was continually sick .r 
yet under my worthy friend, I got a competent knowledge of 
the mathematics, and the rules of navigation ; learned how to 
keep an account of the ship's course, and to take an observation : 
this voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant ; for I 
brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold dust for my 



6 



adventure, which yielded me in London, at my return, almost 
£300. 

I was now set up for a Guinea trader ; but my friend, to my 
great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go 
the same voyage again, and having left £200 in the hands of 
my friend's widow, I embarked in the same vessel. This was 
one of the most unhappy voyages that ever man made ; for as 
we were steering between the Canary islands and the African 
shore, we were surprised in the grey of the morning by a 
Moorish rover of Salee, who gave chase to us, with all the sail 
she could make. Finding that the pirate gained upon us, and 
would certainly come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to 
fight ; our ship having twelve guns, and the pirate eighteen. 
About three in the afternoon he came up with us, and a very 
smart engagement ensued ; but after having twice cleared the 
decks of the Moors, and lost three of our men, and had eight 
wounded, we were obliged to submit, and we were all carried 
prisoners into Salee, a port belonging to the Moors. 

I was kept by the captain of the rover as his own prize, and 
made his slave. 

My master having the long-boat of our English ship, had a 
little state room or cabin built in the middle of it, like a barge, 
with a place behind it to steer, and haul home the mainsheet, 
and another before, for a hand or two to stand and work the 
sails. In this pleasure boat we frequently went out a-fishing ; 
and one day he had appointed to go out with two or three 
Moors of distinction, and had therefore sent over night a larger 
store of provision than usual, and ordered me to get ready two 
or three fusees with powder and shot, which were on board his 
ship, for that they designed to have sport at fowling as well as 
fishing. But in the morning he came on board, telling me that 
his guest had declined going, and ordered me, with the man 
and boy, to sail out with the boat, and catch some fish, for his 
friends were to sup with him. 

At this moment the hopes of deliverance darted into my 
thoughts; every thing being prepared, we sailed out of the 
port to fish ; but purposely catching none, I told Muley that 
this would not do, and that we must stand farther off, which he 
agreeing to, we set the sails, and I having the helm, ran the 
boat out near a league farther, and then brought her to, as if I 
would fish ; when giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward, 
and stooping behind the Moor, took him by surprise, and tossed 
him overboard into the sea; he arose immediately, for he 
swam like a cork, and called to me to take him in ; but fetching 
out one of the fowling pieces, I presented it at him, and tola 
hm, that if he came near the boat, I would shoot him, so ho 



1r 



tTimed about and swam towards the land ; and as he was an 
excellent swimmer, I made no doubt but he reached the shore 
with ease. 

When he was gone, I turned to the boy, whom they called 
| Xury, and said to him, "Xury, if you will be faithful to me, I 
i will make you a great man : but if you will not stroke your 
|face to be true to me,*' (that is, swear by Mahomet and his 




father's beard,) ''I must throw you into the sea too." The 
boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I could 
not mistrust him : he swore to be faithful to me, and go all over 
the world with me. 

While I was in view of Muley, I stood out to sea, but it no 
sooner grew dark, than I changed my course, and steered to the 
south, I made such sail, that before the end of the next day, I 
believe, I was beyond the Emperor of Morocco's dominions. 
Tet so dreadful were my apprehensions of falling again into my 
master's hands, that I would not stop to go on shore, till I had 



s 

nailed in that manner five days ; and then the wind shifting to 
the southward, I ventured to come to an anchor at the mouth 
of a little river. 

The principal thing I wanted was fresh water. But though 
I was no less afraid of the savages than of the wild beasts, our 
necessities obliged us to land, for we had not a pint. The next 
morning Xury asked for one of the jars, and said he would go 
and seek for water. I asked him why he would go. The boy 
answ^ered with so much affection, that I could not help loving 
nim. *' If wild man comes, they will eat me, you go away." 
*' Well, Xury,*' said I, ** we will both go, and if the wild men 
come we will kill them ; they shall eat neither of us.'* 

The boy seeing a low place about a mile up the country, 
rambled thither; and by-and-by I saw him come running 
towards me, when, thinking he might be pursued by some 
savage or frightened by a wild beast, I ran to meet him, but 
when I came nearer I saw something hanging over his shoulder, 
which was a creature he had shot like a hare, and we found it 
very good meat ; but the great joy that Xury came with was 
to tell me he had found good water, and seen no wild mans. 
We therefore filled our jars, feasted on our hare, and then set 
sail. 

About ten days after, as I was steering out to sea, in order 
to double a cape, I had the view of some islands, which I 
supposed to be those of Cape Verd. I was afraid of venturing 
so far from the shore, for if I should be taken with a fresh gale 
of wind, I might never be able to reach again the one or the 
other. In this dilemma I sat down in the cabin, when on a 
sudden Xury cried out in a fright, Master ! Master ! a ship," 
foolishly imagining that it was his master's ship, come so far in 
pursuit for us : I jumped out of the cabin, and saw that it was 
a Portuguese vessel, and instantly stretched out to sea with all 
the sail I could make ; they perceived me by the help of their 
glasses, and shortened sail to let me come up. A Scots sailor 
on board called to me, and I answered that I had made my 
escape from the Moors at Salee. They very kindly took mo 
in and all my goods. 

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived at All 
Saint's Bay, in about twenty-two days. The captain recom- 
mended me to an honest man who had a plantation, with whom 
I lived till I had learnt the manner of planting and making 
sugar, after which I purchased a piece of land, and became a 
planter. I had lived here about four years, and had contracted 
an acquaintance among several merchants, I had frequently 
talked to them of the method of purchasing negroes on the 
Coast of Guinea, and they being pleased with the project, easily 



I 

|)revailed oti me to make a voyage for that purpose. We fitted' 
out a ship of about 120 tons burden, which carried six guns and 
fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and myself. 

In this vessel I set sail. We had very good weather for 
about twelve days ; but soon after we had crossed the line, a 
violent hurricane drove us quite out of our reckoning, and for 
many days together not any in the ship expected to save their 
lives. In this distress, one of our men early one morning cried 
out, ** Land!'* and we had no sooner run out of the cabin, in 
hopes of seeing where we were, but the ship struck upon 
a shoal. It is not easy to conceive our consternation ; for as 




the rage of the sea was great, we supposed that the ship would, 
in a few minutes, break to pieces. We had a boat on board, 
which the mate laid hold of, and with the help of the rest of the 
men flung her over the ship's side, and getting all into her, 
committed ourselves to God's mercy. We steered towards land, 



10 



but after we had roweti, or rather been driven about a league 
and a half, a wave, modntain high, came rolling astern of us 
with such fury, that it overset the boat at once, and separated 
lis from one another. This wave carried me a vast way towards 
the shore, and having spent itself, went back, and left me upon 
the land almost dry, but half dead. I stood still a few moments 
to recover breath, till the waters went from me, and then took 
to my heels; and with all the strength I had left me, ran 
towards the shore. I got to the main land, clambered up the 
clifts of the shore, and sat me down upon the grass. Having 
rested myself, I walked along the shore in search of fresh water : 
having found some and quenched my thirst, I put some tobacco 
in my mouth, to prevent hunger, and having climbed a tree, 
i-ested myself till morning. 

I then found the sea calm, and the tide ebbed so far out, that 
I could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship. The 
weather being extremely hot, I pulled off my clothes, and took 
to the water ; but when I came to the ship, I found no means 
of getting on board, she lying so high, that I could find nothing 
within niy reach : I swam round her twice ; at last observing a 
small piece of rope hanging down, I got hold of it, and got into 
the forecastle. Here I found that the ship was bulged, and a 
great deal of water in the hold ; but to my great joy I saw 
that all the ship's provisions were dry, and being well disposed 
to eat, I went into the bread room, and slipped on a waistcoat, 
filled my pockets with biscuits, and eat as I went about other 
things ; I also found some rum in the great cabin, of which I 
took a dram. 

As I found several spare yards, I let them down with ropes 
by the ship's sides, and going down to them, tied them together, 
and made a raft, placing several pieces of j^ank upon them 
crossway, and laid upon it all the pieces of board that came to 
hand. I next emptied three of the seamen's chests : then 
lowered them down upon the raft, and filled them with bread, 
some dried goat's flesh, and three Dutch cheeses. I found 
several cases of bottles, in which were some cordial waters, and 
about five or six^gallons of arrack ; these I stowed by themselves, 
there being no room for them in the chests. I also let down 
the carpenter's chest, which was worth more to me than a ship 
load of gold. I next found two good fowling-pieces, and two j 
pistols, with some powder horns, two barrels of powder, and two 
old rusty swords, all of which I placed on the raft, and with 
this invaluable cargo resolved to put to sea. 

My raft went very well, and with it I entered a creek, where ; 
I thrust it on a flat piece of ground, over which the tide flowed, 
Hud there fastened it by sticking a broken oar into the ground. 



u 



Thus I stayed till the water ebbed, when I placed my cargo 
m,fe on land. 

The next day I resolved to make a second voyage. My raft 
being too unwieldy, I swam to the ship, and made another, on 




which I placed two or three bags of nails and spikes, some 
hatchets, a grindstone, two or three iron crows, seven muskets, 
and another fowling piece, two barrels of powder, a large bag of 
smaE shot, and all the men's clothes I could find, a square fore- 
topsail, a hammock and some bedding; all of which I brought 
safe to land. 

I now went to work to make a little hut with the sails and 
some poles, which I cut for that purpose ; and into it I brought 
every thing that I knew would spoil either with the sun or rain : 
I piled all the empty chests and casks in a circle round the hut 
to fortify it from any sudden attempt from man or beast; I 
blocked up^e door with boards ; and spreading one of the beds 
upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my head, and 
my gun by me, I went to bed, and slept very quietly all night. 
_ Every day at low water I went on board, and brought awity 



1-3 



gometliing. On my seventh voyage I brought away a great W 
hogshead of bread, three large runlets of rum, a box of fine ^] 
sugar, and a barrel of fine flour. k; 

I had been thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven times «t( 
on board the ship, but in one of these excursions I had the mis- w 
fortune to overset my raft ; but it being in shoal water, and 
the things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them of 
when the tide was out. Indeed, had the calm weather con- m' 
tinued, I believe I should have brought away the whole ship, 
piece by piece ; but preparing the twelfth time to go on board, si' 
I found the wind began to rise; however, at low water I went; 
rummaging the cabin, I discovered a locker with drawers in it, 
in one of which I found two or three razors and a pair of large 
scissors, with ten or a dozen good knives and forks : and in 
another about thirty-six pounds in value of gold and silver coin. 
At the sight of this money I smiled to myself, and said, *' O 
drug ! what art thou good for ? One of these knives is vrortli 
all this heap ; I have no manner of use for thee : e*en remain 
where thou art, and go to the bottom." However, upon second 
thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping it all in a piece of can- 
vas, began to think of making another raft ; but while I was 
preparing it, the wind began to rise, and blow off shore : I then 
found that it was time to be gone, lest I should not be able to 
reach the shore: accordingly Iletmyselfdown into the water, and 
swam to land, which I performed with great difficulty, from the 
weight of things I had about me, and the roughness of the water. 

It blew very hard all night, and in the morning when I looked 
out, no more ship was to be seen. I now went in search of a 
place where I might fix my dwelling, endeavouring to choose 
one where I might have the advantage of a healthy situation, 
fresh water, and security from being surprised by man or beast. | 
I found a little plain on the side of a rising hill, which was 
there as steep as the side of a house, so that nothing could come 
down to me from the top. On the side of this rock was a hol- 
lov/ place, like the entrance of a cave, before which I resolved 
to fix my tent. This plain was not above 100 yards broad, 
and twice as long, descending to the sea. 

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before the hoi- 
low place, which extended twenty yards ; and in this half circle |, 
pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving them into the ground 
like piles. Then I took the pieces of cable I had cut in the 
ship, and laid them in rows one upon another at ;^e top ; and 
this fence was so strong, that neither man nor bem could well 
enter it. The entrance I made by a short ladder to go over 
the top, which when I was in I lifted over after me. Into this ^ 
fence, I by degrees carried all my riches, all my prgvisions, fc 



I jMumiinltion and stores, and made me a large tent to secure 
myself and them from the weather. When I had done this, I 

I began to work my way into the rock, laying all the earth and 
Stones I dug out within my fence, in the manner of a terrace ; 

iand thus I had a cave just behind my hut. 
But before the above works were completed, a sudden storm 
of thunder and lightning filled me with the greatest terror ; for 
my powder suddenly darted into my mind, and my heart sunk 
within me at the thought that at one blast it might all be de- 
stroyed ; on which not only my defence, but the providing of 




my food entirely depended. No sooner was the storm over, 
than I laid aside every other work to make boxes and bags, in 
order to separate my powder, and put them in holes up and 
down the rocks, in such a manner, that one parcel could not 
fire another. 

While aU this was doing, I walked out at least once every 
day with my gun, to see if I could kill any thing fit for food, 
and to acquaint myself with what the island produced. The 
first time I went out, I had the pleasure to find that there were 



14 



goats in the island, but they were so shy, that it was the most 
difficult thing in the world to come up with them ; but observ- 
ing that they did not easily see objects above them, I killed 
them by climbing the rocks, and shooting at those in the valley. 

After I had been about ten or twelve days on shore, it came 
into my thoughts, that I should lose my reckoning of time, 
and should not be able to distinguish the Sundays from the 
working days. To prevent this, I set up a large square post 
on the shore where I first landed, and cut upon it with a knife, 
**1 came on shore here the 30th of September, 1659, K. C." 
Upon the sides I cut every day a notch, and every seventh 
notch was as long again as the rest, and every first day of the 
month as long again as that long one, and thus I kept my 
weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning. 

I had got from the ship some pens, ink, and paper; some 
mathematical instruments, and three good Bibles, with several 
other books, which I carefully secured. I also brought to shore 
with me two cats, and a dog swam on shore, which was a trusty 
servant to me many years ; nay, he was so good a companion 
to me, that I was at a loss for nothing that he could fetch me ; 
and he only wanted power of speech to become a most agreeable 
friend. 

When my habitation was finished, I found it far too small to 
contain my moveables, I had hardly room to turn myself, so I 
set about enlarging my cave, and laboured till I had worked 
sideways into the rock farther than my outside pale, and hew- 
ing a way through, made a back door to my store-house. I 
then made me a table and chair, which were great conveniences ; 
shelved one side of my cave, and knocked up pieces of wood 
into the rock, to hang my things on. When my cave was set 
to rights, it looked like a general magazine of all necessary 
things. 

In the rummaging among my things, I found a little bag 
with some husks of corn in it ; and wanting it, I shook it out 
by the side of my fortification. This was just before some 
heavy rain ; and about a month afterwards, I saw green stalks 
shooting out of the ground ; but how great was my astonish- 
ment, when some time after I saw about ten or twelve ears of 
barley, and a few stalks of rice : these were worth more than 
fifty times their weight in gold ; and I carefully preserved 
them for seed. 

When I had been about a year in the island, I was taken 
extremely ill. This fit of illness proved a violent ague, which 
made me so weak, I could hardly carry my gun. One night 
as I was ruminating on my sad condition, expecting the return 
of my fit, it occurred to my thoughts, that the Brazilians took 



IB 



st o physic but tobacco ; and I went, directed by Heaven no 
^ i oubt, to search for some in the chest ; and there I found a 
id jlJible ! I brought that and the tobacco to my table ; some I 

ljurnt in a pan, holding my head over the fume, and some I 
le hewed. I opened my book, and the first words on which I 
), last my eyes were, " Call upon me in the day of trouble, and 1 

fift deliver thee. " The words struck me ; but I could read no 

^e, for the tobacco made me excessively sleepy. I therefore 
to bed, and falling into a sound sleep, I believe I slept 

ifO days ; and awoke perfectly recovered. 




I now took a survey of the island ; and at about two miles 
Jistant from my habitation, found some fine savannahs, and a 
little further a variety of fruit, melons upon the ground, and 
vines covered with clusters of grapes. I carried some grapes 
and a few limes back with me; but the grapes were spoiled 
before I got home. I went the next day and gathered a large 
inautity of grapes and hung them upon the out branches of the 



trees, that tliey might cure and dry in the sun, ahd they sodfl 
became fine raisins. 

The rainy and dry seasons now appeared quite regular to me. 
I dug a piece of ground as well as I could, with a wooden spade 
of my own making, and began to sow my grain, and my crop 
amounted to about half a peck of each kind. 

In one of the dry seasons I took another ramble, armed with 
my gun and a hatchet, and guarded by my faithful dog. "When 
I had passed the valley in which stood my bower, I came with- 
in view of the sea ; and it being a clear day, I plainly dis- 
covered land ; but whether island or continent I could not tell; 
I guessed that it could not be less than twenty leagues off. I 
imagined it was some savage coast, and such indeed it proved. 
In this journey I caught a parrot, having knocked it down 
with a stick, brought it home with me, and taught it to speak. 

In another of my journies, my dog seized a young kid, and 
I saved it alive, highly pleased with the hopes of having a 
breed of tame goats ; and it soon became one of my domestics, 
and would never leave me. 

My thoughts often ran upon the land I had seen ; and I be- 
gan to make myself a canoe. I felled a great cedar, but when 
the impossibility of launching this heavy thing came into my 
mind, I gave myself this foolish answer, *'Let me but once 
make it, and I warrant I'll get it along when it is done." But 
all my devices to get it into the water failed me, and I there- 
fore gave it over. I also made an umbrella, which I could 
shut up and take abroad with me, which secured me from the 
heat and the rain. 

I now built a, small boat, intending to go round my little 
kingdom ; but after being at sea three days and nights, and 
nearly losing my life I got safely to land ; and on the fourth 
day, almost dead vfith fatigue, I at length arrived at my little 
castle. 1 got over the fence, and laid me dov/n to sleep ; but 
judge my surprise, when I waked by a voice calling me by the 
name, ** Robin, Robin Crusoe, where are you? where have 
you been?" I was so dead asleep at first, that I thought I 
dreamt somebody spoke to me ; but as the voice continued to 
repeat Robin Crusoe," I awaked dreadfully frightened ; but 
no sooner were my eyes open, than I saw Poll sitting on a 
hedge, and immediately knew that it was he that spoke to me, 
I immediately called him, and the poor creature came as he 
used to do, and sat on my thumb, crying, **Poor Robin 
Crusoe," as if glad to see me. 

It would have made a Stoic smile to see me and my family 
sit down to dinner. There was my majesty all alone like a 
king, attended with my servants. Poll, my fayourite, was thfl 



11 

bnly one pemiitted to talk to me. My dog was grown very old, 
I'jat always at my right hand, and my two cats, one on ono 
jide of the table, and the other on the other, expecting now 
kind then a bit from my hand, as a mark of special favour. 




I had at length a great mind to go to the point of the islar.d 
d see how the shore lay, and resolved to travel thither by land, 
knd now reader, I will give you a short sketch of the figure I 
lade. I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin, 

jacket with the skirts coming down to the middle of my 
highs, and a pair of open knee'd breeches of the same, with the 
Bat's hair hanging to the middle of my legs. Stockings and 
hoes I had none ; but I had a pair of somethings, I scarce knew 
rhat to call them, to flap over my legs like spatterdashes, but 
f a most barbarous shape ; and so indeed were the most of my 
lothes. My beard was cut short, except what grew on my 
|f)er lip, which I had trimmed into a pair of large Mahometan 



18 



whiskers. But as for my figure, I had so few to observe me,« 
that it was no manner of consequence. -^1 

In this figure I went my new journey, and was out five or 
six days. I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's 
naked foot on the shore, which was plainly to be seen in the 
sand. I listened, I could hear nothing, I went upon a rising 
ground to look farther, but I could see only that one impres- 
sion. There was plainly a foot, toes, heel, and every part very 
distinct. I hurried home to my fortifications, looking behind , 
me every two or three steps, and fancying every tree, bush, and 
stump, to be a man, I ha*d no sleep that night, but my terror 
gradually wore off ; how^ever, I strengthened my fortification, 
and planted a number of stakes on the outside of my wall, 
which growing, became a thick grove. 

After having secured my habitation in the strongest manner 
possible, I sought for a place of security for my live goats ; and I 
at length found a piece of ground almost inaccessible by nature; ; 
and then removed the she-goats and two he- goats into it. 

After I had thus secured one part of my live stock, I rambled ! 
more to the western point of the island than I had ever done 
before. I was presently convinced that the seeing the print of 
a man's foot was not such a strange thing in the island, as I I 
had imagined, for on my approaching the shore, I was perfectly ; 
confounded ; nor is it possible to express the horror I felt at I 
seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, and feet, and other i 
bones of human bodies ; and particularly a place, where, as I ? 
supposed, there had been a fire made, and a circle dug in the 
earth for the savage wretches to sit down to their inhuman 
feasts. I turned my face from the horrid spectacle, and left 
the place as soon as possible. 

Some time after, in the midst of a very stormy night, I was 
startled at the firing of a gun : I hastened up to the top of my 
hill, and heard another. I imagined that these were the 
signals of a ship in distress ; and such it proved, as I discovered j 
the next day. I cannot explain the emotion I felt at the sight | 
of this wreck. O that there had been but one saved ! cried I, ! 
that I might have had one companion — one fellow creature to 
have spoken to, and have comforted in his afiliction ! 

One morning very early, I clambered up my hill, and 
discovered savages landing from five canoes. I soon after saw 
two miserable wretches dragged out of the boats ; one of whom b 
was immediately knocked down ; but the other starting from c 
them, ran with incredible swiftness towards me. I was fright- jf 
ened when I saw him come my way, imagining he would be I t 
followed by the whole body; however, I kept my station, and iher; 
quite lost my apprehensions when I found but three folloW€4 jjluir, 



1§ 

^ I hastily fetched my gun ; and having a short cut down 
le hill, I clapped myself in the way between the pursuers and 

• le pursued, crying aloud to him that fled, and beckoning then 

- ly hand for him to stop : then rushing at once upon the fore- 
lost, knocked him down with the stock of my piece, and then 
lot him dead. The poor savage who had fled was so terrified 
1 the noise of my gun, that he stood stock still, but seemed 
ither inclined to fly than to come towards me. However, 

' hen I gave him signs of encouragement, he came nearer, 




kneeling down every ten or twelve steps ; on his eoming close 
again, he laid his head upon the ground, and placed my foot 
upon it. 

He was a well-made handsome fellow, of about twenty-six 
years of age, of an olive coloured complexion, with long black 
imv. He had a small nose, that was not flat ; and fine teeth, 



so 

as white as ivory. After he had slept about half-an-houi% he 
awaked again, and came running to me in the enclosure just by^ |e! 
where I had been milking my goats ; then falling down again, it 
he laid his head fl^t upon the ground, and set my other foot I 
upon it, as before ; and after this made all possible signs of ip 
thankfulness, subjection, and submission. I began to speak to ri 
him, and to teach him to speak to me ; and first I made him e 
know that his name should be Friday, which was the day rie 
whereon I saved his life. I taught him to say Master, and let le 
nim know that was to be my name. The next day I gave him 'oi 
clothes, at which he seemed pleased. idt 

Having now more courage, and consequently more curiosity, I 
I took my man Friday with me, giving him the sword in his IE 
hand, with his bow and arrow at his back, which I found he an 
could use very dexterously. I also gave him a gun to carry; -i 
and taking two for myself away we marched to the place where 
his enemies had been. When I came there my blood ran cold i he 
in my veins ; the place was covered with human bones, and the I 
ground dyed with blood; great pieces of flesh were left here nut 
and there, half eaten, mangled, and scorched. I saw three 4 
skulls, five hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet; lool 
and Friday, by his signs, made me understand that they «roi 
brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that three of theiu ihe 
were eaten up, and he, pointing to himself, was the foui^h; I 
and that they had been conquered, and taken prisoners in war. i-ii 
The next day I made a little tent on the outside of my fortifica- 'ooi 
tion, and at night took in my ladder, that he might not be able i'ool 
to get at me while I slept. But there was no need of this pre- Jiad 
caution, for never man had a more faitlifal servant ; he had the lid 
same affection for me as a child has for a father : and I dare i ihi 
say he would have sacrificed his life to save mine. U 

I took him out with me one morning to the woods, in order m 
to take a kid from my herd ; but as I was going, I sa\y a she- 'm 
goat lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting by 
her : when making, signs to Friday not to stir, I shot one of the ibk 
kids. Poor Friday, who had at a distance seen me kill the i uli 
savage his enemy, but did not see how it was done, trembled, i smi 
and looked so amazed, that I thought he would have sunk down : 1 
he did not see the kid I had shot, but ripped up his waiscoat i k 
to feel if he was not v^'ounded, and thought I was resolved to i k 
kill him. But taking him by the hand, I laughed at him; Fri 
and pointing to the kid I had killed, beckoned him to run and ' le 
fetch it, which he did. J 

The next day I sent him to beat out some corn, and sift it | f * 
and in a little time Friday was able to do all the work for me, 1 k 
as well as I could do it myself. In shorty this was the j ki 



) Lasantest year I had led upon the island : for as my man hegBXt 
talk pretty well, I had some use for my tongue again. 
I was now entered into the twenty-seventh year of my 

■ Iptivity, and intended soon to sail, when one morning I bid 
Hday go to the sea-shore to see if he could find a turtle ; but 
;> had not long been gone, when he came running back, and 

- ied, " O Master ! O Master ! O sorrow ! Obad!" "What's 
i e matter, Friday?" said I. '*0 yonder, there/' said he, 

- lone, two, three ; canoe ! one, two, three ! " Well, Friday,'* 
id I, "do not be frightened." 

' I T then took my perspective glass, and went up the side of th© 
^ 111, and saw twenty-one savages, three prisoners, and three 
: moes. I bid him see what they were doing : he did so, and 
; jld me, that they were all about the fire, eating the flesh of 
t jie of their prisoners ; and that a bearded man lay bound upon 
: i^e sand, whom he said they would kill next. 
J 1 1 had not a moment to lose, for two were stooped down to 
: jitie the Christian, in order to murder him. '*Now," said I, 
: i Friday, do as you see mo do. I laid the muskets down, and 
; 1 ok one, and then we both fired. Three were killed, and five 

ounded. The rest jumped up immediately on their feet, but 

ley knew not where to run. 

I resolved to pursue them, and ran to the canoe, calling to 
riday to follow me ; but I was no sooner in the canoe, than I 

und another poor creature lie there alive, bound hand and 
ot. I immediately cut the twisted flags ; and seeing that he 
ad been bound so tight, that he was almost dead, I gave him 

dram, and ordered Friday to tell him of his deliverance : but 
hen the poor fellow looked in his face, and heard him speak, 
i would have moved any one to tears, to have seen how he 
issed, embraced, hugged hira, cried, danced, sung, and then 
ned again. It was some time before I could make him tell me 
hat was the matter ; but when he came a little to himself, he 
lid he was his own dear father. He then sat down by him, 
eld the old man's head close to his bosom, and chafed his arms 
nd ancles, which were stiff with binding. 

The Spaniard having expressed to me the utmost gratitude 
[)r his deliverance, gave me an account of his shipwreck, and 
he situation of his companions ; and it was resolved that 
Friday's father and the Spaniard, should go in the boat to fetch 
}hem over. 

About eight days after they were gone, Friday wakened me 
me morning, by crying out, "Master, they are come!" I 
iressed, and hastened to the top of the hill, and plainly dis- 
severed an English ship lying at anchor. 

They then ran the boat ashore on the beach, and eleven men 



22 



landed, three of them unarmed ; who by their gestures, seemed 
to be prisoners : and one of them I could perceive using the 
most passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction, and despair, 
while the two others, though their grief seemed less extravagant^ 
appeared pleading for mercy. ' 

At this instant I saw a villain lift up his arm to kill one of 
the prisoners, but he did not strike him. The men having left w 
the prisoners, and gone up into the woods, I went up to them 
with my man Friday, and said to them, **What are yoif, 
gentlemen?'' they startled at the noise; but prepared to fly. 
I then said in English, ** Gentleman, perhaps you may have 
a friend near you, whom you little expect. Tell me your case^ 




I was commander of that ship, (replied one of the prisoneill) 
my men have mutinied against me ; and if they do not murder ^ 
me, they intend to leave me and these two gentlemen ashore in | 
this desolate place ; they are but in that thicket, and I trembk k 



23 



I tor fear they have seen you." Having concerted niatters with 
' the captain, and armed ourselves, we went to the sailors, and 
the captain reserving his own piece, the two men shot one of 

I the villains dead, and wounded another. He who was wounded 
cried out for help, and I coming up, gave orders for sparing 
their lives, on condition of their being bound hand and feet 
while they staid in tke island. 




A little after another boat came. We formed an ambuscade, 
but one of the principal ringleaders of the mutiny, with two of 
■^e crew coming towards us, the captain was so eager that he 
Jet fly, killed two on the spot, and the third ran for it. I 
fiminediately advanced with my whole army, upon which Will 
Watkina, one of the ringleaders, called out, ** For God's sake, 
captain, spare my life.*' The captain told him he must lay 
down his ari3Pt» at discretion, and trust to the governpr's mwy ; 



upon which they all submitted, and with their assistance, we | 

seized the ship. f 

Having brought the prisoners before me, I asked them what f 

they had to say in their defence, telling them I had power to ^ 

execute thera there. They pleaded the captain's promise of v 

mercy. I then told them that I intended to go passenger in ^ 

the ship, with all my men ; but that they could only go as | 

prisoners ; observing, however, that they might, if they chose | 

it, stay in the island. This they gladly accepted. The captain c 

returning to the ship, got every thing" ready for my reception. ■ 




When he was gone, I talked to the men, told them my story, 
and how I managed all my household business ; left a letter for 
the fifteen Spaniards, and made them promise to treat them in 
common with themselves. The next day I went on board the 
ship, taking Friday with me : thus I left the island, after being 
on it twenty-eight years, and arrived safely in England, 



