Efce Hafee Cnglifitf) Classic*
THE LIFE AND STRANGE
SURPRISING ADVENTURES OF
kOBINSON CRUSOE
BY
DANIEL DEFOE
EDITED FOR SCHOOL USE
WILLIAM T. HASTINGS, A.M.
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH, BROWN UNIVERSITY
SCOTT, FORESMAN AND COMPANY
CHICAGO NEW YORK
5-<k ka.jCT' Harvard University
Dept. *1 Education Llbrarv
MAY 26 1913
TKANSFEShtD iO
RVMtD COLLEGE LIBRARY
COPYRIGHT, 1913
BY SCOTT. KORESMAN AND COMPANY
PREFACE
This edition of Robinson Crusoe aims to do two things:
to state in the introduction the essential facts relating to
Defoe's life, character, and works, with special attention to
Robinson Crusoe and Defoe's place in the history of prose
fiction; and to supply in footnotes such information as may
enable the student to read the story intelligently.
The text has been prepared with some care, being
reprinted without change (except as noted below) from Dob-
son's reprint (1883) of the first edition, collated throughout
with an original copy of the -sixth edition1, and, wherever
these two editions differed, compared with original copies of
the third and fourth editions. Important differences in the
readings of the various editions, and all cases of the insertion
in the text of a reading other than that of the first edition,
are recorded in a list of variant readings in the appendix.
The capitalization, the spelling (except where it clearly indi-
cates a pronunciation different from that in use today), and
to a slight extent the punctuation, have been modernized.
Obvious printer's errors have been silently corrected. The
grammar, sentence division, and paragraphing are unaltered.
I gratefully acknowledge the assistance I have received
from the suggestions of Professors W. C. Bronson and G. W.
Benedict of Brown University, and Mr. Harry W. Hastings
of Simmons College. Especially, however, I am indebted to
Professor W. P. Trent, of Columbia University, who gen-
erously supplied me with his memoranda of the printer's
errors in Dobson's reprint. W. T. H.
1 The so-called sixth edition (1722) was the last edition published in Defoe's
lifetime which was accessible to me. A seventh edition was published in 1726.
CONTENTS
Page
Preface 3
Introduction
I. The Life of Defoe 7
II. Defoe as Journalist and Pamphleteer 17
III. Defoe as a Writer of Prose Fiction
A. Prose Fiction before Defoe 20
B. Robinson Crusoe 23
C. Defoe's Later Narratives 29
D. Defoe's Successes in the Field of the Novel 33
Chronology of Defoe's Life and Writings 35
Bibliographical Note 39
Author's Preface 40
Text 41
Appendix I. Captain Rogers's Account of the Rescue
of Alexander Selkirk 371
Appendix II. Steele's Account of Selkirk 376
Appendix III. Chronology of the Life of Robinson
Crusoe 379
A List of Variant Readings - 382
INTRODUCTION
The Life of Defoe
Daniel Defoe was born in London in 1659, 1660, or
16611. His father, James Foe2, was a butcher in the parish
of St. Giles, Cripplegate. James Foe was born in 1630 and
was the son of Daniel Foe of Etton, in Northamptonshire,
a well-to-do yeoman, who died in 1631.. This is practically
all we know of his family, and of his childhood we know lit-
tle more. Throughout his works appear evidences of his inti-
mate acquaintance with the Bible; this knowledge he prob-
ably owed in the first instance to his parents, who were Pres-
byterians and so belonged to the large body of Dissenters from
the Church of England. In his works, too, we find evidence
that even as a boy he was keenly observant, picking up all
sorts of stray information,—such, for example, as might be
got by watching the makers of wickerware in their shops.
When about fourteen he was sent to an academy at New-
ington to be trained for the Dissenting ministry. He prob-
1The date of Defoe's birth is not absolutely known. Until recently the state-
ment on his tombstone that he died "April 24, 1731, in his 70th year," was held
to prove that he was born in 1661. But in 1890 Mr. G. A. Aitken unearthed the
record of his marriage on New Year's Day, 1684, at the age of twenty-four; this
would seem to argue that he was born in 1659. The only possible way to reconcile
the two statements is to assume (1) either that the "24" in the marriage record
is equivalent to "24th year" or that his age on his nearest birthday was given,
his next birthday being four or five months off, and (2) that "70th year" on the
tombstone is an error for "70 years." On the basis of these two assumptions,
both of which are improbable, it is possible to figure the date of his birth as 1660,
between April 24 and the latter part of June. The month and day of his birth
are unknown. Thomas Wright, in his life of Defoe, believing that Robinson
Crusoe is a literal allegory of Defoe's own life, concluded that Defoe's birthday
and Crusoe's were the same and that consequently Defoe was born September
30, 1659; but the assumption is unjustified.
'About 1703 Defoe began writing his name "De Foe," instead of "D. Foe,"
though up to his death he sometimes wrote his initials "D. F."; since his day
literary custom has established the spelling "Defoe," which is followed universally,
even by Defoe's descendants.
8 Robinson Crusoe
ably remained there the usual five years, but on leaving
he abandoned the church for business.
He became a hosier, or hose-factor, in London about the
year 1680. On December 28, 1683, a marriage license was
taken out fo_r "Daniel Foe.. .24.. .marchant," and Mary
Tuffley, aged ^wenty, and on New Year's Day they were
married. This may be held to argue that he was prosper-
ing. He was not giving all his attention to business, how-
ever, for, in 1683, as he stated later, he was already trying
his hand at the writing of political pamphlets. Two years
later, in 1685, his youthful enthusiasm led him to join the
rebellion of the Duke of Monmouth. On the failure of the
rebellion Defoe fortunately escaped arrest.
After this escapade there followed seven years the events
of which are not especially significant. In 1688 he was
admitted to membership in the Butchers' Company, the guild
to which his father belonged; he was prominent among the
Dissenters in Tooting, a suburb of London; and he was
present at the proceedings of the Parliamentary Convention
which proclaimed William and Mary, King and Queen. In
1690 and 1691 he was engaged in the Spanish and" Portu-
guese trade, and before 1692 had visited Spain and become
familiar with the language. In 1691 he published the first
of his pamphlets which has come down to us, a verse satire
on a recent Jacobite plot. The next year, perhaps because
of too great an interest in politics, he became bankrupt, with
an indebtedness of £17,000. He went from London to
Bristol to escape imprisonment, and from there made compo-
sition with his creditors.
A year or two later Defoe turned his energies in a new
direction, with results which altered the whole course of his
life; he entered definitely upon the career of a political agent
and pamphleteer, an occupation which involved much
traveling, and gave him opportunity for speechmaking and
writing full of ingenious argument, accusations, recrimina-
Introduction 9
tions, denials, appeals, and exhortations. To this life he
devoted himself till 1726. He did not abandon business at
first, in 1694 or thereabouts becoming secretary of a brick
and pantile factory in Essex. This business or his other
activities made him prosperous for a time, and he kept a
coach and a pleasure boat. But the business failed in 1704,
involving him in a loss of £3500, and he never again engaged
in business in a large way. The failure resulted in all prob-
ability from his neglect, although Defoe ascribed it to the
political persecutions and imprisonment he suffered in 1703.
Meanwhile he had been engaged in helping to plan the finan-
cial policy of the government; by an effective pamphlet had
won a government appointment which lasted from 1694 to
1699; had been introduced to the King; and was writing
pamphlets in favor of the Whig Administration. In Janu-
ary, 1701, he scored a great popular success with a verse
satire, The True-Born Englishman, written in defence of
the King, who was becoming unpopular because of the
long continuance of the War of the Spanish Succession. - But
King William died in 1702; Queen Anne, a Tory at heart,
came to the throne; and in 1703 Defoe got into difficulties
over a pamphlet, The Shortest Way with the Dissenters, an
ironically exaggerated High Tory attack on the Dissenters,
which was probably written with the secret approval of the
Whig leaders. January 10, 1703, a reward of £50 was
offered for the arrest of Defoe, as the author of a seditious
pamphlet. He was described as follows:
"He is a middle-sized, spare man, about forty years old,
of a brown complexion, and dark-brown colored hair, but
wears a wig; a hooked nose, a sharp chin, grey eyes, and a
large mole near his mouth."
He was apprehended in May, "by 2 Messengers at a
French Weaver's House in Spittlefields,"1 tried and con-
victed in July, and sentenced to the pillory and to prison.
'Professor Trent, in The Nation, September 17, 1908.
He remained in Newgate Prison, after a triumphant three
days in the pillory surrounded by admirers, until about the
first of November,1 and was then released.
In order to understand these early passages in Defoe's
public life and his subsequent political services it is necessary
to refer briefly to the political history of the times. The
politics of the first fifteen years of the eighteenth century
were highly complicated. William III. had come to the
throne in 1689, after the fall of James II. He had
found himself involved in dissensions at home and in the
War of the Spanish Succession abroad. In the matter
of national politics it was a time of transition, during which
the present party system of government, with a ministry
wholly representative of the party dominant in Parliament,
came into being. In 1700, however, the system was unde-
veloped: the King appointed his ministers irrespective of the
political complexion of the houses of Parliament, and almost
invariably the same ministry would contain both Whig and
Tory members, though the party which supported the King's
policies was likely to be in the majority. Moreover, in 1700
the lines between the parties were not as yet drawn with
sharpness; each party was divided into moderate and extreme
elements, which warred among themselves.
The public questions about which discussion in these
years centered were: (i) the policy of continuing the
war of the Spanish Succession; (ii) the "occasional con-
formity"2 of Dissenters, which enabled them to hold municipal
office; (iii) the parliamentary union of Scotland and England;
and (iv) the succession to the throne of England upon the
death of Anne, a childless woman. Up to the death of
William III. in 1702 the Whigs were most powerful, but
upon the accession of Anne, with her Tory leanings, the
situation changed. At first the extreme Tories, under the
1 Roscoe, E. S.: Robert Harley; p. 48.
8 The conformity consisted in occasional attendance at the services of the
Church of England.
leadership of Nottingham, had most influence, and it was
through their activity that Defoe was imprisoned in 1703.
But more moderate counsels prevailed in 1704, and there-
after the control swung back and forth between the parties
till the accession of George I. in 1714. For a time after 1702
the Tories were forced by popular opinion to support the war,
the "Whig war" as it was called; but in general the align-
ment of parties and principles was much the same as before.
There were the extreme, or "high-flying," Tories, who were
very high church, hated the Dissenters, opposed the war, and
had to some extent leanings toward the Stuart claimant to
the throne. There were the more moderate Tories, who sup-
ported, though not very energetically, the Protestant Succes-
sion, and who were disposed to some religious toleration, but
who also opposed the war. There were the moderate Whigs,
supporting the Succession, the war, and the Union; and the
extreme Whigs, more fiercely partisan. The Dissenters were
inclined to go with the Whigs, but got very little considera-
tion anywhere.
Because of the bi-partisan composition of the ministries,
.nd because of the sub-division of parties into factions, the lead-
ing ministers had no easy task to win support from their
colleagues or from a possibly unfriendly Parliament. It
became the policy, therefore, of Robert Harley, who entered
the ministry as a moderate Tory and became Secretary of
State in 1704, to endeavor by "moderation" to enlist the
support of moderate men of both parties: to this policy he
owed the length of his service as minister, and to it he also
owed his final overthrow. With him were associated at
first Lord Godolphin, a moderate Whig, who held the office
of Lord Treasurer, and Henry St. John, later Viscount
Bolingbroke, a high Tory. Presently, however, the drift
of political sentiment, especially in regard to the war, made
it possible for the extreme Whigs to gain representation in
the ministry, and in 1708 they forced the dismissal of Harley
and St. John because of their Tory leanings. Two years
later, in 1710, Harley and St. John returned to office, as a
result of a growing opposition to the war which enabled Anne
to follow her natural preferences and dismiss the Whigs.
Harley retained control thereafter until 1714, when all fell
into tumult through the imminent death of Anne, the luke-
warmness of Harley over the Succession, and the Jacobite
plottings of Bolingbroke. Anne on her deathbed appointed
Shrewsbury, a Whig, Lord Treasurer, George was pro-
claimed King, and the Tories suffered a political eclipse
which endured for a quarter of a century.
Before his arrest in 1703, Defoe, in spite of his under-
standing with the Government, had been something of a free
lance; but at the end of 1703, after professing his gratitude
to Harley, who had been responsible for his release from
prison, he offered his services to the Administration, was
given an appointment with a pension, and began to be
regularly employed on secret services. These services were
continued till 1714. They consisted mostly in two things:
(1) writing pamphlets and articles in support of the policies
of the various administrations; and (2) going about the
country, in England and Scotland, to ascertain and, if pos-
sible, to influence public opinion.1 He served under Harley
from 1704 to 1708; under the Whig, Lord Godolphin, from
1708 to 1710; and from 1710 to 1714 under Harley again.
His connection with the successive Whig and Tory Gov-
ernments was never openly admitted, but it was generally
suspected by his contemporaries, who assailed him bitterly as
a turncoat and trimmer, one who shifted his political opinions
as the party in power changed. This judgment, however, did
Defoe substantial injustice.2 It is certainly true that he aided
first one party and then the other to stay in power; that,
1 Roscoe, E. S.: Robert Harley; p. 55.
1A detailed viewof the evidence on this point is out of place here. There is
no satisfactory study of the subject in print, but it will no doubt be completely
presented in Professor Trent's forthcoming work on Defoe.
becoming involved in the petty rivalries and jealousies of fac-
tions, he did his best to present in their most favorable light
the acts of each minister who came to control the Govern-
ment. But the fact that the minister was in each case a
man of moderate opinion made it possible for him to main-
tain a fundamental consistency of attitude; his own early-
announced views on the large matters of public import were
virtually the same as those of Harley and Godolphin, who
were substantially at one, and to these principles he adhered
consistently and boldly throughout his career. In consequence
of the attacks upon him he wrote, toward the end of 1714, a
defence of his actions, An Appeal to Honor and Justice
. . . Being a True Account of his Conduct in Public
Affairs. Here he disregarded or denied his partisan services
and shrewdly emphasized the consistency of his attitude to-
ward the Union, the Peace, the Succession, and Toleration.
It was evidently enough for his conscience if he could hon-
estly say, as he does, "I was from my first entering into the
knowledge of public matters, and have ever been to this day,
a sincere lover of the constitution of my country; zealous
for liberty and the Protestant interest; but a constant fol-
lower of moderate principles, a vigorous opposer of hot
measures in all parties. I never once changed my opinion,
my principles, or my party; and let what will be said of
changing sides, this I maintain, that I never once deviated
from the Revolution principles, nor from the doctrine of
liberty and property on which it was founded."
Only a few individual events of this decade of his life
need to be noted. In 1704 he began the publication of his
journal, The Review, which he continued till the middle
of 1713. It had two sections, one devoted to a discussion
of political affairs in England and on the continent, and one,
the "Mercure Scandale," devoted to society news and lam-
poons. In 1713 he began a new paper, Mercator, in
support of Harley's financial policies; it came to an end
in July, 1714, just a week before Barley was forced to
resign. In July and August, 1714, he published a short-
lived paper, The Flying Post, the last of his independent
ventures in journalism. Among his other publications dur-
ing these years the most interesting to the student of litera-
ture is his first bit of circumstantial narrative, The Appari-
tion of Mrs. Veal, published in 1706; it is a report of Mrs.
Veal's appearance, after death, to a friend, Mrs. Bargrave.1
In 1711 or 1712 he may have had an interview with
Alexander Selkirk,2 who had been for four years ma-
rooned on the deserted island of Juan Fernandez in the
South Pacific, and whose adventures suggested to Defoe
the main plot of Robinson Crusoe. Finally, he was twice
arrested for his writings. In 1713 he published three tracts
on the subject of the Succession to the throne of England.
In these tracts, while really supporting the House of
Hanover, he presented an ironical argument in favor of the
Pretender, the son of James II. Under the real or feigned
belief that the arguments were seriously meant, certain
Whigs caused Defoe's arrest. He was sentenced to prison
on April 22, 1713, but in less than two weeks,—by May 2,—
he was admitted to bail through the indirect aid of Harley,3
and in November was formally pardoned by the Queen.
The following August he was again arrested, this time for
an attack in The Flying Post on the Tory Earl of Anglesey,
but was soon liberated. In July, 1715, he was tried for
the latter offence, but although he was convicted, sentence
was deferred. During the ten years just completed he had
written upwards of one hundred and fifty4 pieces of various
kinds and lengths, most of them between twenty and sixty
1 The story was long supposed to be wholly an invention of Defoe's, but Mr.
Aitken has identified the persons concerned.
2 So Wright thinks; d.Life of Defoe, p. 171; Aitken, {Romances and Narratives
by Daniel Defoe, I. iii.,) doubts it and says the supposition is unnecessary.
> The Nation, September 17, 1908.
* Professor Trent's investigations have increased the number considerably.
pages long, but half a dozen or more running into the
hundreds of pages.
In 1715 Defoe's political activities took a new form, objec-
tionable enough to a man of delicate feeling, but not involv-
ing Defoe in actions or utterances in conflict with his real
sentiments. He became the ally of Lord Townshend, the
Whig Secretary of State under the new King, George I.,
and remained in his service and that of his successors
until 1726. Posing as a Tory, he attached himself to
various Jacobite and High Tory journals, and adroitly
managed things so as to fulfill his promise that they should
"be always kept (mistakes excepted) to pass as Tory
papers, and yet be disabled and enervated so as to do no
mischief or give any offence to the government."1 This
occupation combined with his independent publications to
make Defoe very prosperous for ten or a dozen years. In
1721 he was willing to pay £5 to be excused from serving
parochial offices in Stoke Newington, his place of residence;
in 1722 he leased an estate at Colchester for ninety-nine
years and settled it on his daughter Hannah; and by 1724
he was living in a house at Newington built by himself some
time previously.
The other publications of this time of prosperity demand
separate consideration later, for they compose the main
achievement of his life. Here they may be mentioned briefly.
In 1715 he published The Family Instructor, a continua-
tion of which was issued in 1718: it is a moral treatise
with a thin coating of story. Four years after the publica-
tion of the first volume a book appeared containing the
same two ingredients, with the proportions reversed. This
book, The Life and Strange Surprising Adventures of Robin-
son Crusoe, was published on April 25, 1719, and was
1 The papers with which he was connected and the length of his connection
were: Mercurius Politicus (1716-20); Dormer's News Letter (1716-18); Mist's
Journal (1717-24); The Whitehall Evening Post (1718-20) ;The Daily Post (1719-25);
Atplebee's Original Weekly Journal (1720-26).
immensely successful. By August 8, it had reached its fourth
edition. Then followed, on August 20, The Farther
Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, and in December, The
King of Pirates. In 1720, after an interval of eighteen
months, appeared Duncan Campbell, Memoirs of a
Cavalier, Captain Singleton, and Serious Reflections of
Robinson Crusoe; in 1722 came Moll Flanders, A Journal
of the Plague Year, Colonel Jacque, and,—with an interesting
shift from entertainment to moralizing,—Religious Court-
ship; then on March 14, 1724, less than five years after
Robinson Crusoe, appeared The Fortunate Mistress
[Roxana~[. After this series if Defoe had written nothing
more it would have made no difference to his fame. Between
then and the end of 1725, however, he published some vol-
umes of travels, some catchpenny pamphlets on contemporary
rogues,1 and some treatises on servants and on tradesmen.
But by this time the tide of prosperity had begun to turn.
In 1724 Defoe was still connected with three Tory journals.
In November of that year, however, Nathaniel Mist, pro-
prietor of Mist's Journal, one of Defoe's papers, apparently
discovered his editor's secret appointment under the Gov-
ernment; at any rate he assaulted Defoe. This "duel" ended
their business relationship. In the following April his con-
nection with the Daily Post ended, and about a year later, in
March, 1726, he ceased to write for Applebee's. Some
months afterward2 we find him intimating that he could no
longer get his writings printed in the journals. It has been
conjectured that it was because his connection with the
Government leaked out after the trouble with Mist; it
may also have been that his powers were failing, for he
was now over sixty-five years old; and changes in the politi-
cal situation perhaps played their part. Whatever the cause,
it is interesting to note that after 1725 he writes less and that
his subjects are of a miscellaneous and mostly non-political
• For titles cf. pp. 37, 38.
• November 19, in the preface to The Protestant Monastery.
character: he discourses on magic and apparitions, on private
and public morality, on commerce and street robberies and
being a gentleman; but from the last five years of his life
there are preserved only two political tracts. Neither are
there any works of fiction. His important labors were done.
Of his actual situation in these last years of his life we
know little except by inference. He may have been in busi-
ness in 1726.1 At the end of the following year his daughter
Sophia wrote that her father had been ill. In that year and
the next Defoe had trouble over Sophia's dowry, being unable
or unwilling to make a definite statement concerning it to
her prospective husband, Henry Baker. In 1730, perhaps
because he was in debt, he conveyed some of his property
to his eldest son, Daniel, to be held in trust for Mrs. Defoe
and the other children. A little later, in August of the
same year, in a pathetic letter written to his son-in-law Baker
from a small place in Kent, where he had gone to escape
some enemy, probably a creditor, he represented himself as
a dying man, alone and unhappy; his son Daniel had evi-
dently failed to follow his wishes in regard to the transferred
property, and he was depending upon Baker and Sophia.
The next information we have is of his death, which took
place in his lodgings in Ropemaker's Alley, London, on April
26, 1731. He died of a "lethargy." Whether he was alone
we do not know; but he was probably in comfortable quar-
ters, for Ropemaker's Alley was then a pleasant part of the
town. In the papers his death was noted, but only briefly.
II
Defoe as Journalist and Pamphleteer
During the greater part of his mature years,—i.e.,
roughly speaking, from 1695 to 1720,—Defoe supported
lOn March IS the Daily Courant printed an advertisement for a lost pocket-
book which contained, among other things, a note given by Defoe and a bill on him.
himself mainly by political or quasi-political activities. His
chief writings during that time took one or another of three
forms: verse satires on political questions; pamphlets, some-
times on general topics connected with the welfare of the
nation and sometimes on burning questions of the day; and
weekly or semi-weekly journals, in part devoted to political
discussions.1
Though he gave the political pamphlet new force as a
vehicle for exhortation and controversy, and though his
verse, in spite of its unpoetical character, became an effective
satirical weapon, neither was in any way an original contri-
bution of Defoe's to the development of polemic literature.
But his journals, especially the Review,2 occupy historically
a more conspicuous place. Nothing quite like the Review had
ever before been attempted. "The nearest approach to it
among its predecessors," says Professor Minto,3 "was the
Observator, a small weekly journal ... in which passing
topics, political and social, were discussed in dialogues." The
Review was published weekly at first, and then for varying
periods it appeared two and three times a week. It consisted,
as has been said, of two "departments," the second of which,
the "Mercure Scandale," or Scandal Club, was modeled
directly upon the Observator, and handled satirically the
small social and political scandals of the day. It is histor-
ically significant as the forerunner of the more famous Tatler
and Spectator of Steele and Addison, which it antedated by
five years. The first part of the paper was of a more serious
character: it consisted of an "introductory letter," which,
somewhat after the fashion of a modern editorial article,
expounded the political situation in one or another foreign
1 For titles cf. pp. 35-38.
"The shortlived Mercator and Flying Post, to which Defoe devoted his energies
Biter suspending publication of the Review, were substantially like the Review in
general character. His work on the Tory papers with which he was connected
for the next ten years was not independent and need not be considered here.
'Daniel Defoe, p. 51. The present account of the character of the Reticw
is based largely on Minto.
country, or discussed questions of international politics, or
dealt directly with the national problem of England itself.
Defoe was well equipped for his task by reason of his
extensive reading, his excellent memory, and his striking
ability in controversial argument, as well as by his keen inter-
est in national affairs and his close relations with the Gov-
ernment. He wrote voluminously, vigorously, and on the
whole, effectively, stirring his opponents to great but largely
futile animosity, and no doubt exerting considerable influ-
ence upon the general public. The Review was "a much
bolder anticipation of the modern newspaper than anything
that Steele or Addison or Swift produced ... he had a
clearer notion of the powers and functions of the press and
also a firmer grasp of political and social questions and a
wider range of interests than any of his successors and imi-
tators during two or three generations."1
His views on non-political subjects often have a strik-
ingly modern tone. Moreover, his constant endeavor to
promote moderation in political opinion and action by dis-
crediting extreme measures and partisans, both Whig and
Tory, indicates a breadth of view rare in those times. In gen-
eral, this phase of his life reveals him to have been a really
unusual man, of whom Harley's biographer justly observes,
"How much Harley owes to Defoe's ability it is hardly pos-
sible to overestimate."2 He was not a statesman or a political
philosopher in any true sense; his mind was too agile and
restless; his interest was too much in the ingenious handling
of details; his temper was rather practical than speculative.
He was, however, shrewd and adroit; an observant student
of men, often making his appeal, as he admits, not to their
principles but to their prejudices; combative, full of self-as-
surance, whimsical; a casuist, yet always interested in worthy
causes; moreover a man who was always preaching, raising
the moral issue, whether in a matter of public or of private
lAthmeum (London), October 20, 1894.
2Roscoe, E. S.: Robert Harley; p. 51.
import, a born writer of homilies, and practising in his pri-
vate life the virtues that he preached.
The political writings are cast in the mold of Defoe's
own mind. Their style is simple and unpretentious, with
not much color except that resulting from homely directness.
It is sometimes loose and colloquial, yet often firm, vigorous,
trenchant, and effectively ironical.1 At its best it has a
force which would hardly be suspected from reading only
Robinson Crusoe and the other narratives.
Ill
Defoe as a Writer of Prose Fiction
a. Prose Fiction Before Defoe
When Defoe began to withdraw from political contro-
versy and turned his pen to the composition of fictitious nar-
ratives, he was no doubt acting under a sort of compulsion to
find a new form of activity; for political controversy was
losing its edge; the old issues were disappearing; a new body
of public men was coming forward which knew him not.
He had written non-political pieces before, some of them
short narratives, and so it was not surprising that he turned
to that field again. But he can hardly have foreseen the
success which greeted the appearance of his first venture,
Robinson Crusoe.
1Cf., for example, the following passage of casuistical argument from the preface
to the third volume of the Review: "I am charged with partiality, bribery, pen-
sions, and payments—a thing the circumstances, family, and fortunes of a man
devoted to his country's peace clears me of. If paid, gentlemen, for writing, if
hired, if employed, why still harassed with merciless and malicious men, why pur-
sued to all extremities by law for old accounts, which you clear other men of every
day? Why oppressed, distressed, and driven from his family and from all his
prospects of delivering himself? Is this the the fate of men employed and hired?
Is this the figure the agents of Courts and Princes make? Certainly had I been
hired or employed, these people who own the service would by this time have set
their servant free from the little and implacable malice of litigious persecutions,
murthering warrants, and men whose mouths are to be stopt by trifles. Let this
suffice to clear me of all the little and scandalous charges of being hired and em-
ployed."
Historically, this was an epoch-making work—"the first
novel of incident." Up to the time of Defoe, prose fiction
was still crude.1 A hundred years earlier, in the time of
Shakespeare, three principal forms of prose narrative existed.
There were short tales, humorous or pathetic, mostly
translations or imitations of tales of the Italian Renaissance.
There were longer pieces, the pastoral and courtly romances,
which presented artificial characters—shepherds and nymphs,
courtiers and ladies—set in fantastic and often confused
plots.2 Lastly, there was a considerable body of literature
which-dealt more or less realistically with the lives of ras-
cals and criminals. One only of these last works, Nashe's
Jack Wilton, is long enough and has sufficient continu-
ity of story to be in point of structure a predecessor of the
novel of the eighteenth century. The other works in which
Elizabethan rogues were presented took the form of pam-
phlets; they contained many capital bits of realism, but
in general scheme were essentially essays, not stories.
The most they can have done was to keep alive in England
an interest in reality of portraiture. And Nashe's work had
so few imitators and was so soon forgotten that it can have
had virtually no direct effect on the development of the
novel. In the middle of the seventeenth century the most
popular form of, fiction in England was a kind of romance
borrowed by translation and imitation from the heroic ro-
mances then flourishing in France; it continued the absurdi-
ties of plot, characterization, and sentiment which existed in
the Elizabethan romance. Something of an advance toward
-the later form of the novel appears, however, in the works
of Mrs. Aphra Behn, who wrote at the end of the century.
She attempted to handle actual human beings and she suc-
1 For full discussion of these matters connected with the early history of the
novel cf. Jusserand's English Novel in the Time of Shakespeare and Raleigh's
English Novel.
'Sidney's Arcadia, the most famous of the romances, remained popular
throughout the seventeenth century, and although not affecting Defoe's work;
had a direct influence on the work of Richardson.
ceeded in telling a fairly straightforward story; one "novel,"
The Fair Jilt, in the character of its heroine and the outline
of its plot is not unlike what we find in Defoe's works. But
her works are the products of her time: they show no real
faculty for the picturing of life and are as artificial in manner
as those of her contemporaries.
Three other forerunners of the novel proper point more
directly toward the work of Defoe. The character sketch,
a description of a generalized or "typical" person who repre-
sented some special characteristic,—"The Courtier," "The
Miser," "The True Gentleman,"—had become very popular
as a literary form in the seventeenth century; in Defoe's own
day, but a decade before Robinson Crusoe, Addison and
Steele, in the Sir Roger de Coverley Papers, improved upon
the pure character sketch by adding a slight amount of story
and making the characters themselves somewhat more indi-
vidual. Biographies of criminals kept alive the old interest in
realistic portrayal of rascality, and invited Defoe to the
writing of the biographies first of real and then of fictitious
wrongdoers. And fully as significant was Bunyan's Pilgrim's
Progress, published in 1678. This moral and spiritual allegory
contained a kind of generalized characterization, some real
English scenery, and good Dissenting theology; but particu-
larly, it told its story simply, vividly, and with remarkable
naturalness in the details. Defoe would have been more
likely to know the Pilgrim's Progress than any other piece
of English literature, and the realism of Bunyan and his
religious fervor have pretty clearly left their mark on Rob-
inson Crusoe. At any rate the "moral" portions of Robinson
Crusoe are the true Dissenting gospel.
How short a way toward modern fiction all these things
take us is obvious. There is no recognition of the novel as a
literary type,—like the play or the lyric poem,—with its own
principles of form and structure; there is little endeavor to
present real people, or to contrive a coherent plot, or,—except
in the case of Bunyan,—to interpret life in general. And
when Defoe has finished writing, it is clear that a substantial
step forward has been taken, though even then such works
as those of Scott, Dickens, and Thackeray are far in the
future.
B. Robinson Crusoe
It is not to be assumed in Defoe's case, however, that
when he wrote Robinson Crusoe he was consciously attempt-
ing any particular innovations. In the dialogues of the Scan-
dal Club in the Review (1704-13) he had tried his hand at
a kind of fragmentary satirical fiction. And as early as
1706, in The Apparition of Mrs. Veal, he had shown remark-
able skill in straightforward narrative. This report of the
conversation between Mrs. Bargrave and her dear friend
Mrs. Veal the day after the latter's death is vivid, even
rather dramatic, and is phrased in the tone of calm veracious-
ness to which Defoe owed so much of his later success as a
story-teller. There can be no doubt, besides, that if it had
been, as was long supposed, the creation of Defoe's imagina-
tion, instead of an account of a contemporary "wonder," it
would have been just as convincingly truthful in tone.
Again, in 1718, he gave a notable proof of his faculty for
plausible story-telling, in a journalistic canard which soberly
recounted the fictitious destruction of the Isle of St. Vincent.
The air of scientific detachment with which he learnedly spec-
ulates on the possible explanations of the disaster could hardly
be improved upon.
Robinson Crusoe was for Defoe merely a more extended
performance of the same sort as these; a piece of narrative
which was to be made plausible by arts he had already proved
effective. A bit of interesting fact, a striking news item,
came in his way: the account of the adventures of Alexander
Selkirk on his desolate island.1 The situation of Selkirk took
hold of his imagination; he saw the opportunity to enlarge,
to add detail, to invent a whole life of a man who should
begin with a wild youth, live like Selkirk a life of solitude
and privation, and work out his physical and spiritual salva-
tion by courage and the help of Providence—a good chance
to point a moral, to tell a story which should have all the
earmarks of truth his ingenuity could devise, and perhaps a
good chance to swell his income. His aim was simple; and
the tremendous success of the story was due to a few simple
excellences.
First among the reasons for the success of Crusoe is
undoubtedly the strength of its main situation. For us,
and doubtless for Defoe's age as well, Crusoe's shipwreck
on the island opens up a prospect of all kinds of thrilling
happenings, the promise of which is in a considerable measure
fulfilled. And there is something equally stirring in the
spectacle of Crusoe fighting to wring a livelihood and to win
comforts for himself out of his destitution. He is, in a sense,
set to fighting over again, almost as if no one had struggled
before him, the eternal fight of man against the forces of
nature,—it would have been quite that, except for the provi-
dentially saved tools and weapons. With the salvage from
the wreck another element of interest enters the story, the
joy of all mankind in treasure trove. Every successful excur-
sion to the wreck is a triumph; we gloat over the spoils with
Crusoe's own eyes. Nor does the triumph end here, for the
fertile yalley of fruits, the cave shining with useless and soon
forgotten jewels, and the second wreck,—with which Defoe
seeks to duplicate the emotional effect of the first,—are all
treasure trove, a source of fascination from Aladdin's and
Sinbad's day to Tom Sawyer's and our own.
iSee Appendix, p. 371, where the contemporary accounts of Selkirk by Steele
and Captain Rogers are reprinted. An examination of them shows that Defoe
incorporated in Robinson Crusoe nearly every detail of Selkirk's experiences, though
many of them merely serve to suggest to him an idea which he treats far more
elaborately.
To the success of the book the handling of the characters
likewise in some measure contributes. Crusoe is not, it is true,
so interesting as his experiences. With the possible exception
of Friday,—who represents with considerable closeness the
conventional idea of the "noble savage," dowered with fidel-
ity toward his superiors, tenderness for his parent, and the
ability of the "natural man" to find the flaws in the arti-
ficial moral and theological ideas of civilized Society,—
Crusoe is, one may say, the only character in the book; and
in presenting him and his shadowy parents, wife, ene-
mies, and friends, Defoe shows no particular skill; the
characterization contains no bold strokes, no clear individu-
alizing touches, it is not subtle, and in general it is the oppo-
site of vivid. Even Crusoe is not sharply drawn. Professor
Cross contrasts him with Lieutenant Bowling in Smollett's
Roderick Random: He [Bowling] was a strong built man,
somewhat bandy-legged, with a neck like that of a bull, and a
face which, you might easily perceive, had withstood the most
obstinate assaults of the weather. His dress consisted of a
soldier's coat, altered for him by the ship's tailor, a striped
flannel jacket, a pair of red breeches, japanned with pitch
. . ." Smollett's description visualizes as Defoe's never does;
moreover in the course of the story, by dint of conversation
and action, Bowling is made a fairly individual character,
whereas Crusoe remains a type, and a general one, with
no idiosyncrasies and no impress of a trade or a local-
ity, a being whom we should never recognize as a sailor
except for his acquaintance with nautical terms, or for a
merchant and planter except for his,—and this means
Defoe's,—interest in commercial details. Clearly Defoe was
unaware of many of the possibilities in characterization.
And yet in the case of Crusoe himself our long associa-
tion with his thoughts and actions enables us in a manner
to apprehend him,—or to apprehend Defoe, for Crusoe seems
to be in part an unconsciously drawn portrait of Defoe's
inner man, only less competent and more stupid. He is an
English tradesman of the lower middle class, unimaginative,
not sensitive, a good Dissenting Protestant; a firm believer
in signs and dreams, in predestination and the workings of
Providence; practical, energetic, and narrow;—and he is
thrust into a highly romantic situation! Robinson Crusoe
in a novel of adventure is a priori as incongruous as John
Bunyan in the role of the hero of a modern romance, as
out of place as any matter-of-fact shopkeeper would be, if
plunged into a series of events such as are the native element
of Dirck Hatteraick, or Leatherstocking, or Long John
Silver, all of blessed memory. As a matter of fact, however,
there is no clash between character and action in Robinson
Crusoe, for Defoe merely applies to his romantic situation
the methods of simple realism and demands of his hero noth-
ing but sober, steady, pious persistency. In most stories of
adventure the hero triumphs through physical daring and skill,
aided by kindly chance. Defoe for the most part asks of
Crusoe no physical heroism. We have, instead, the triumph
—which to our surprise is hardly less stirring—of just an
average human intellect, faced with a bad dilemma. Even in
the scenes with the savages and the mutineers, where there is
abundant opportunity for the other sort of thing, Crusoe
goes about his business in so businesslike and unheroic a way
that it is the awkwardness of the situation and Crusoe's
ingenuity in making schemes, rather than the thrilling
quality of the action, or interest in the actors, that mainly
hold us. That the situation does hold us and that we are
keenly interested in Crusoe and his success there can, how-
ever, be no doubt.
Defoe's method of telling his story contributed some-
what more to its success than did the characterization. Yet
of what is called the technique of the novelist,—the devices,
that is, which give firmness, strength, movement, and color
to a narrative, and a command of which is expected of
even third-rate novelists of the present day,—he had very
little conception. He shows no skill whatever in dialogue,
the conversations between Crusoe and Friday being much
like the infant catechism and the Family Instructor. Fri-
day's speech remains to the end a feeble sort of baby-
talk. When humor is essayed, it falls quite flat, as in the
adventure of Friday with the bear.1 The relating of the
characters to the action is not dramatic: Defoe does not supply
himself early in his story with a set of characters who are to
be played off against each other and so far as possible kept
occupied to the end. Of course this was partly due to the
nature of the action, but he shows the same defect in the
stories in which contemporary manners are depicted. His
treatment of Friday illustrates the point. During their time
on the island Friday is called upon when there is some
special thing for him to do; the rest of the time he is not
even in the background. After they leave the island, except
for the adventure with the bear and the wolves, we hear
nothing of Friday's existence until he is taken aboard ship
by Crusoe on his .second voyage to the island. Then twice
more he is briefly introduced before he is killed. Again,
in the plot or design there is no clear unity, although Robin-
son Crusoe, as Professor Minto points out, comes nearer to
having such unity than do any of Defoe's later narratives,
because of the physical limitation of action to the island.
(Yet that this was purely accidental is shown by the fact
that after the escape from the island, we are furnished a
series of anti-climactic adventures in Portugal, Spain, and
France, whereas a modern writer would see that when the
ship bearing Crusoe away from the island weighed anchor,
the story had reached its end. Finally there is no grace
or polish or beauty in the style, which is at times amazingly
lax in structure.2
'Cf. the feeble pun, "but In a wooden manner," on p. 166, and the very mild
humor in the description of Crusoe's appearance, pp. 199, 200.
*Cf. pp. 71, 172, etc.
Yet two great excellences wellnigh make up for these
defects. In spite of the frequent slovenliness of his style it
is a model of plainness, simplicity, and unaffectedness, and
on the whole serves admirably as the vehicle for his straight-
away form of narrative. The highly important faculty of
absolutely straightforward narration of events is his second
excellence. Let him once set himself to tell how a thing
took place,—how a boat was built, or a plot was hatched,
or a wreck was plundered,—and one can hardly imagine how
his narrative could be improved, it is so direct and free from
self-consciousness. When these two merits are joined to the
interest of the situation, it is easy to understand why the
obvious defects of his work are negligible.
A final reason for the success of the book is to be found
in the quality so often ascribed to it, its verisimilitude, its
appearance of truth. To this effect, at which, beyond doubt,
Defoe particularly aimed, many small things contribute.
There is plausibility in the simplicity of style and narrative
method just described. His happy decision to cast the story
in the form of an autobiographical memoir, also aids greatly.
It allows of a natural, chronological order of events; it excuses
(and gives opportunity for) certain apparent errors in liter-
ary craftsmanship,—the repetition of facts, the homely, unlit-
erary diction, the loose and involved sentences,—errors some
of which Defoe may consciously have introduced to make the
tale more plausible. Verisimilitude comes also from the mi-
nute and circumstantial presentation of details,1 the consci-
entious way in which Crusoe is made to tell everything—
ticketing off the dead mutineers and cannibals in a way that is
impressive, though not always arithmetically correct,1 and
chronicling all his unheroic fears and blunders, which ere
confessed without a suggestion of hurt vanity. It is a plod-
ding realism, which compels belief by the patient heaping
1 Cf. in this connection my article on Errors and Inconsistencies in Defoe's
Robinson Crusoe, in Modern Language Notes, June, 1912.
up of particulars. In this kind of work Defoe was at his
best; by this achievement he" showed that prose narrative
might become very effective when it dealt with real people
in real and interesting experiences.
After the success of Robinson Crusoe Defoe naturally
tried more stories. The Farther Adventures falls short
of the first series of adventures, because the happen-
ings are less unusual, and because Defoe has no external
aid to unity of action such as was furnished him be-
fore by the limitation of events to the island; he is good
at many points, but secures a much weaker total effect. The
third book with the magic title of "Crusoe,"—his Serious
Reflections,—is a collection of maxims, homilies, and moral
anecdotes, put into Crusoe's mouth. It is not of much
intrinsic value, but is interesting because in it Defoe indi-
rectly states that Robinson Crusoe is, even to minute details,
an allegory of his own life; "in a word," he says, "the 'Ad-
ventures of Robinson Crusoe' are one whole scheme of a
real life of eight and twenty years . . . there is not a cir-
cumstance in the imaginary story but has its just allusion
to a real story . . ." Some of Defoe's biographers have
taken this statement literally and have tried to work out the
allegory. It is impossible, however, to find detailed corre-
spondences, except in a very few particulars, without adding
fantastic chapters to Defoe's life and using the imagination
to descry likenesses.1 The idea of calling the story an alle-
gory must have come to Defoe as an after-thought, when
it occurred to him that there was a similarity between
Crusoe's stormy life and his own.
C. Defoe's Later Narratives
The narratives with which Defoe followed up his suc-
cess in Robinson Crusoe have all, like Robinson Crusoe,
the air of being narratives of fact. Some of them deal
1 Compare the chronology of Defoe's life, pp. 35-38, with the chronology of
Crusoe's life, Appendix, p. 379, ff.
with known persons and events; others are perhaps, but
not certainly, based on fact; and still others are pretty
clearly in the main fictitious. Yet so successful is Defoe
in maintaining his veracious manner that it is impossible
to distinguish between fact and fiction on the evidence pro-
vided by the stories themselves. In most cases, judging from
the general bent of his genius,—his peculiar facility in
elaborating and adding detail, his inventive rather than
creative imagination,—it seems likely that his narrative was
at least suggested or inspired by some actual contemporary
events or personages; and there can be no doubt that those
works the action of which is set in the England of his own
time contain many scenes colored by his own observation, and
many directly reproduced from it.
A few of the later narratives deal, as does Robinson Cru-
soe, with entirely respectable persons and events. Among these
are the two books inspired by interest in the plague at
Marseilles in 1720-21, Due Preparations for the Plague
and the famous Journal of the Plague Year. Defoe was
just the man to present with apparent fidelity and unemo-
tional convincingness the horrors of the plague, and the
Journal has long been regarded as a masterpiece. Here may
also be mentioned a precursor of the historical romance of
Scott's day and ours, the Memoirs of a Cavalier, in which the
hero narrates his adventures in the wars in Germany and
England between 1632 and 1648. As one might expect,
Defoe's Cavalier is more observant than romantic, more
prudent than heroic; but the accounts of military move-
ments, in spite of their historical inaccuracy, are first-rate
story-telling.
The other later narratives present the lives of people
more or less outside the pale of respectable society, "thieves,
pirates, adventurers, charlatans," in Mr. Aitken's phrase.
Defoe here continues, more clearly than in his other works,
the sort of thing previously tried in the Elizabethan tale of
rascality and in the criminal biography. Among these are
accounts of Dickory Cronke, the "dumb philosopher," and
of Duncan Campbell, the deaf and dumb conjuror; of the
pirates Captain Avery and Captain John Gow; and of con-
temporary rascals, among them Jack Sheppard, the notorious
thief, and Jonathan Wild, the famous thief and thief-taker.1
Good narratives as these are, they are rather excellent pieces
of journalism or unsurpassed "penny dreadfuls" than real
works of art. But the same cannot be said of four works,—
autobiographies of presumably fictitious criminals,—which
stand with Robinson Crusoe at the top of Defoe's achieve-
ment: Captain Singleton, Colonel Jacque, Moll Flanders,
and Roxana.
Captain Singleton is the story of a pirate who after
many ups and downs gets home to England with his booty,
marries, and of course spends the rest of his life in respect-
ability, to counterbalance the sins of his youth. He begins
his evil career early and throughout it is absolutely without
moral feeling, although he repents when he has made his
fortune; he is bold, resolute, and faithful to his friends, but
neither a picturesque nor a stirring figure. The comrade
of his later exploits, Quaker William, is as a human being
far more convincing; and William's reconciling of his Quak-
erism with his piracies is perhaps the best piece of humor in
all Defoe's works. The action of the story falls into two
loosely related parts: a trip by Singleton and some compan-
ions across the continent of Africa which anticipates by
nearly two centuries the actual trip of Stanley in our own
day; and the piratical operations of Singleton and his friends
in the Atlantic and Indian Oceans. The details of the
narrative show Defoe's usual knack of realism.
Colonel Jacque is a series of episodes, as the title-page
of the early editions indicates: "... Colonel Jacque... who
was born a Gentleman, put 'prentice to a Pickpocket,
'For precise titles and for dates, cf. pp. 37, 38.
flourished six and twenty years as a Thief, and was then
kidnapped to Virginia; came back a Merchant... went into
the Wars... is still Abroad completing a Life of Wonders,
and resolves to die a General." The book is highly char-
acteristic of Defoe. Jacque is an interesting boy, and some
of his childhood experiences are told in a masterly way. As
a man he is less satisfactory. He abandons the trade of
picking pockets not because it is wrong but because he is
afraid of detection. As servant and planter in Virginia,
and as merchant and gentleman soldier and husband of
various wives in Europe, he is full of moral sentiment, but
pretty close to the coward and the cad. He gets out of the
wars as quickly as he can find an excuse, he insults a man
and then refuses to fight him, he treats his erring wives
with smug and magisterial justice and his one good wife
as a convenience to provide for his wants and those of his
children; and yet he moralizes without stint. This is all
worth dwelling on because it is perfectly clear that Defoe
never dreamed of drawing any such portrait. The portrait
developed thus unattractively because Defoe had his eye
always on the events and not at all or only in a slight degree
on the character; he chose the events for their own sake, not
to illustrate character; he put the moral observations into
Jacque's mouth because they were suggested to his own mind
by the event, not because they were congruous with Jacque's
character and helped to reveal it; and finally we may suspect
that Defoe had in himself more of the moralizing shopkeeper
than of the gentleman. The plot of course falls to pieces.
Moll and Roxana are women of evil lives. Moll is a
thief and a pickpocket who is born in the gutter but has
decent instincts and finally repents edifyingly. In spite of
her history she is really likable, a distinction which hardly
another of Defoe's characters possesses. The story is as
much a collection of episodes as is Colonel Jacque, but has
many admirable touches. Roxana, a woman of good birth
but without principle and with a fatal love of luxury, is
altogether too calculating and cold-blooded; she is not an
attractive character, except in person. But most of the
critics find the story the best of Defoe's works in point of
structure. Certainly the plot leads pretty clearly to the con-
clusion, and thus has more unity than have the plots in the
other stories; moreover, there is more consistency in the char-
acterization, together with a certain amount of character
development, and the characters are played off against one
another more skilfully here than in any of Defoe's other
works.
In all these works, and on the surface they seem suffi-
ciently varied, the literary method is practically the same;
and it differs little from that of his first great success. If
Robinson Crusoe and Moll Flanders and Captain Singleton
seem different in character, the difference arises from the
subject-matter only, not from a change in the methods
employed. They are cast in the autobiographical form;
they are all ostensibly written for a moral purpose; they
are all,—with one or two partial exceptions,—loose in unity,
not strong in characterization, but entertaining, full of the
air of reality, and valuable for their pictures of low life in
the eighteenth century. They testify to the keenness of
Defoe's observation, the range of his own experiences, and
the retentiveness of his memory. And they could not have
secured their effect had it not been for Defoe's singularly
complete command of a plain, vigorous, and straightforward
style.
D. Defoe's Successors in the Field of the Novel
Defoe's narratives were rather precursors of the novel
than novels themselves. They were weak or deficient,—as
has been sufficiently shown,—in many ways. Yet by their
excellences they caught the popular favor and showed that
prose narrative might be made an effective form of literature.
Taken together, they made easier the step to the work of the
great eighteenth century novelists, Richardson, Fielding, and
Smollett.
Each of these three writers added elements which entitled
his works to be properly styled novels. Richardson in his
Pamela (1740) and Clarissa Harlowe (1748) gave even more
microscopic detail than did Defoe, though his plots were less
plausible; more important, however, was the fact that he
added to the narrative interest of Defoe a fund of sentiment
and a minute analysis of the heart. The work of Fielding
in Joseph Andrews (1742) and Tom Jones (1749) was
more robust, more vigorous, and more true to the average
life of the times than that of Richardson. He presented in
his pages a view of a whole society, the Middle Class Eng-
land of his day. In his hands, moreover, the novel attained
unity of purpose and plan, and became truly a novel of man-
ners; i. e., a novel whose aim is to present faithfully the
"manners" or life of a particular period. Smollett, in a
series of novels the most famous of which are Roderick Ran-
dom (1748), Peregrine Pickle (1751) and Humphrey Clin-
ker (1771), also depicted contemporary manners, sketching
with a harsh realism certain rougher and less reputable types
of character, and widening the field of observation by adding
to pictures of middle class life in England a view of life upon
the sea. Both Fielding and Smollett had the humor which
is essential to the painter of manners and in which Defoe
and Richardson were notably deficient. By the contributions
of these three to the handling of character, plot, and back-
ground, the novel as a type was firmly established. But
however superior they were in these matters, it is doubtful
if any one of them in the writing of pure narrative surpassed
or even equalled Defoe.
Chronology of Defoe's Life and Writings1
1659-61 Daniel Foe, afterwards Daniel Defoe, son of James
Foe, was born.
1674 (?) Sent to academy at Newington.
1679-80 (?) Became a hosier in London.
1683 Writing political' pamphlets, now lost.
1684 January 1. Married Mary Tuffley.
1685 Joined the rebellion of the Duke of Monmouth
against James II.
1688 January 26. Admitted to "the Butchers' Company
of the city of London. Living at Tooting.
December 18. In the train of William III. on
his entry into London.
1691 A New Discovery of an Old Intrigue; Defoe's
first extant pamphlet.
1692 Bankruptcy.
1694 Th'e Englishman's Choice, and True Interest: In
a Vigorous Prosecution of the War against
France.. .The pamphlet won Defoe a govern-
ment appointment.
1694 (?) Entered brick and pantile business.
1698 January 25. The first of many pamphlets con-
cerning "Occasional Conformity."
1701 January. The True-Born Englishman.
1702 December 1. The Shortest Way with the Dis-
senters.
1703 January 10. Reward offered for Defoe's arrest on
a charge of sedition.
May 20. Defoe arrested.
July 7-9. Tried and convicted.
July 29-31. In the pillory.
September 26-November 4. Between these dates
released from Newgate.
'The dates are all "new style."
1704 February 19. The Review begun; last number
June 11, 1713.
The pantile works failed. Appointment as govern-
ment agent, with pension.
October. An illness lasting to the end of the year.
1705 Went through the West of England, previous to
the elections, in the -interests of the administra-
tion.
1706 July 5. The Apparition of Mrs. Veal.
1706-07 Visited Scotland and wrote pamphlets in the in-
terests of fhe Union with England.
1708 Upon Harley's retirement Defoe's appointment
continued by Queen Anne.
1708-09 Went to Scotland twice.
1710 In October or November went to Scotland again.
1711 Letter to Harley and pamphlet opposing Occa-
sional Conformity bill.
1713 February-April. Three tracts concerning the Suc-
cession: Reasons against the Succession of the
House of Hanover; And what if the Pretender
should come? An Answer to. . . . What if the
Queen should die?
April. Arrested for the tracts, tried, convicted, and
sent to the Queen's Bench Prison.
May 2. By this date admitted to bail, after paying
a fine of 3s. 6d.
May 26. Mercator begun; last number July 20,
1714.
1714 July 27-August 21. The Flying Post. Arrested
for attack on the Earl of Anglesey.
December. Suffered from apoplexy.
1715 January. An Appeal to Honour and Justice...
Being a True Account of his Conduct in Public
Affairs.
July 12. Brought to trial on the Anglesey affair.
Re-entered the government service, under Lord
Townshend.
March 31. The Family Instructor. A second
volume in 1718.
1719 April 25. The Life and Strange Surprising'Adven-
tures of Robinson Crusoe.
August 20. The Farther Adventures of Robinson
Crusoe.
December 10. The King of Pirates.
1720 April 30. Duncan Campbell.
May 20. Memoirs of a Cavalier.
June 4. Captain Singleton.
August 6. Serious Reflections of Robinson Crusoe.
1722 January 27. Moll Flanders.
February 20. Religious Courtship.
March 17. A Journal of the Plague Year.
August 6. Leased an estate at Colchester.
December 20. Colonel Jacque.
1724 March 14. The Fortunate Mistress.
May 22-August 13, 1726. A Tour Through...
Great Britain; 3 vols.; based on his political
journeys in the 90's.
Living at Newington in his own house.
November 12-17. Two tracts on John Sheppard.
November. The "duel" with Mist.
1725 May 8. A New Voyage Round the World.
June 5. Everybody's Business is Nobody's Busi-
ness; a treatise on the "servant question."
1725 June 8. Jonathan Wild.
June 11. Captain John Gow.
September 11. The Complete English Tradesman.
Vol. 2, May 13, 1727.
1726 March 12. Connection with Applebee's ended.
May 7. The Political History of the Devil.
December 19. A System of Magic.
1729 March. Reasons for a War; the last political
pamphlet that we know about.
April 30. Sophia Defoe married Henry Baker.
The Complete English Gentleman written; first
published in 1890.
1730 Conveyed part of his property to his eldest son,
Daniel.
August 12. Letter from Defoe, as a dying man,
to Baker.
1731 The Preventing of Street Robberies; his last work.
April 26. Defoe died.
BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE
No complete edition of Defoe's works has ever been
published. The only reliable edition is Mr. G. A. Aitken's
Romances and Narratives by Daniel Defoe, in sixteen volumes
(Dent, 1895), which includes the famous narratives and a
few of the pamphlets, with an excellent General Introduction,
and with important bibliographical and historical notes pre-
fixed to each volume.
William Lee's Life and Writings of Defoe, 3 vols., 1869,
has not been superseded, although a considerable number
of facts have been discovered since its publication. The only
subsequent elaborate biography, Mr. Thomas Wright's Life
of Daniel Defoe, 1894, is fanciful and undependable.
Minto's Daniel Defoe, in the English Men of Letters Series,
is based upon Lee, and like Lee is somewhat out of date,
but its criticism is generally acute. An excellent critical esti-
mate of Defoe as a novelist may be found in Leslie Steph-
ens's Hours in a Library, Vol. I., and a compact outline of
the life and works of Defoe in his article "Defoe" in the
Dictionary of National Biography. For the best statement
of Defoe's political services see E. S. Roscoe's Robert
Harley, Earl of Oxford (Methuen, 1902). Important
biographical and bibliographical notes on Defoe by Pro-
fessor W. P. Trent of Columbia University were published
in The Nation of June 6, July 11, and August 29, 1907,
and September 17, 1908. Professor Trent's articles, together
with Mr. Aitken's introduction to his edition of the Ro-
mances and Narratives, present the most recent additions to'
our knowledge of Defoe.1
1 See also the chapter on Defoe by Professor Trent in the Cambridge History
of English Literature, Vol. IX, which appeared too late to be used in preparing
this introduction.
39
If ever the story of any private man's adventures in
the world were worth making public, and were acceptable
when published, the editor of this account thinks this will
be so.
The wonders of this man's life exceed all that (he
thinks) is to be found extant; the life of one man being
scarce capable of a greater variety.
The story is told with modesty, with seriousness, and
with a religious application of events to the uses to which
wise men always apply them (viz.) to the instruction of
others by this example, and to justify and honor the wisdom
of Providence in all the variety of our circumstances, let
them happen how they will.
The editor believes the. thing to be a just history of
fact; neither is there any appearance of fiction in it: and
however, thinks because all such things are despatched2, that
the improvement of it, as well to the diversion, as to the
instruction of the reader, will be the same; and as such,
he thinks, without farther compliment to the world, he
does them a great service in the publication.
1 By Defoe.
'despatched. "The sentence is awkward, but the meaning appears to be that
the writer is of opinion that stories are thrown aside so quickly that the effect
produced by them (the improvement) is the same whether they are true histories
or romances."—Aitken. The third, fourth, and sixth editions read "disputed."
40
THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE, etc.
I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of
a good family, though not of that country, my father being
a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at Hull: he got
a good estate by merchandise, and leaving off his trade,
lived afterward at York, from whence he had married my
mother, whose relations were named Robinson, a very good
family in that country, and from whom I was called Robin-
son Kreutznaer; but, by the usual corruption of words in
England, we are now called, nay, we call ourselves, and
write our name, Crusoe, and so my companions always
called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of which was lieutenant-
colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly
commanded by the famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed
at the battle near Dunkirk1 against the Spaniards: what
became of my second brother I never knew, any more than
my father or mother did know what was become of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any
trade, my head began to be filled very early with rambling
thoughts: my father, who was very ancient, had given me
a competent share of learning, as far as house-education
and a country free-school generally goes, and designed me
for the law; but I would be satisfied with nothing but going
to sea; and my inclination to this led me so strongly against
the will, nay, the commands, of my father, and against all
the entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that
1 the battle near Dunkirk: the Battle of the Dunes, 1657, in which the Spaniards
were defeated by the French and English. Dunkirk is situated on the northern
coast of France.
41
propension of nature, tending directly to the life of misery
which was to befall me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and
excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design.
He called me one morning into his chamber, where he was
confined by the gout, and expostulated very warmly with
me upon this subject: he asked me what reasons more than
a mere wandering inclination I had for leaving my father's
house and my native country, where I might be well intro-
duced, and had a prospect of raising my fortunes by appli-
cation and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He
told me it was for men of desperate fortunes on one hand,
or of aspiring, superior fortunes on the other, who went
abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise, and make
themselves famous in undertakings of a nature out of the
common road; that these things were all either too far above
me, or too far below me; that mine was the middle state,
or what might be called the upper station of low life, which
he had found by long experience was the best state in the
world, the most suited to human happiness, not exposed
to the miseries and hardships, the labor and sufferings, of
the mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed with
the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the upper part of
mankind. He told me, I might judge of the happiness of
this state, by this one thing, viz., that this was the state of
life which all other people envied; that kings have frequently
lamented the miserable consequences of being born to great
things, and wished they had been placed in the middle of
the two extremes, between the mean and the great; that
the wise man gave his testimony to this as the just standard
of true felicity, when he prayed to have neither poverty or
riches.
He bid me observe it, and I should always find, that
the calamities of life were shared among the upper and
lower part of mankind; but that the middle station had
the fewest disasters, and was not exposed to so many vicissi-
tudes as the higher or lower part of mankind; nay, they
were not subjected to so many distempers and uneasinesses
either of body or mind, as those were who, by vicious living,
luxury, and extravagancies on one hand, or by hard labor,
want of necessaries, and mean or insufficient diet on
the other hand, bring distempers upon themselves by the
natural consequences of their way of living; that the middle
station of life was calculated for all kinds of virtues and
all kinds of enjoyments; that peace and plenty were the
handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance, moderation,
quietness, health, society, all agreeable diversions, and all
desirable pleasures, were the blessings attending the middle
station of life; that this way men went silently and smoothly
through the world, and comfortably out of it, not embar-
rassed with the labors of the hands or of the head, not sold
to the life of slavery for daily bread, or harassed with per-
plexed circumstances, which rob the soul of peace, and the
body of rest; not enraged with the passion of envy, or secret
burning lust of ambition for great things; but in easy cir-
cumstances sliding gently through the world, and sensibly
tasting the sweets of living, without the bitter, feeling that
they are happy, and learning by every day's experience to
know it more sensibly.
After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to play the young man, not to pre-
cipitate myself into miseries which Nature arfd the station
of life I was born in seemed to have provided against; that
I was under no necessity of seeking my bread; that he would
do well for me, and endeavor to enter me fairly into the
station of life which he had been just recommending to me;
and that if I was not very easy and happy in the world, it
must be my mere fate or fault that must hinder it, and that
he should have nothing to answer for, having thus dis-
charged his duty in warning me against measures which
he knew would be to my hurt: in a word, that as he would
do very kind things for me if I would stay and settle at
home as he directed, so he would not have so much hand
in my misfortunes, as to give me any encouragement to
go away: and to close all, he told me I had my elder brother
for an example, to whom he had used the same earnest
persuasions to keep him from going into the Low Country1
wars, but could not prevail, his young desires prompting him
to run into the army, where he was killed; and though he
said he would not cease to pray for me, yet he would ven-
ture to say to me, that if I did take this foolish step, God
would not bless me, and I would have leisure hereafter to
reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when there might
be none to assist in my recovery.
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was
truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did not know it
to be so himself; I say, I observed the tears run down his
face very plentifully, and especially when he spoke of my
brother who was killed; and that when he spoke of my
having leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he was so
moved, that he broke off the discourse, and told me his
heart was so full he could say no more to me.
I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as indeed
who could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of
going abroad any more, but to settle at home according to
my father's desire. But alas! a few days wore it all off;
and, in short,"to prevent any of my father's farther importu-
nities, in a few weeks after, I resolved to run quite away
from him. However, I did not act so hastily neither as
my first heat of resolution prompted, but I took my mother,
at a time when I thought her a little pleasanter than
ordinary, and told her, that my thoughts were so entirely
bent upon seeing the world, that I should never settle to
anything with resolution enough to go through with it, and
1 Low Country: the Netherlands.
my father had better give me his consent than force me to
go without it; that I was now eighteen years old, which
was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an
attorney; that I was sure if I did, I should never serve out
my time, and I should certainly run away from my master
before my time was out, and go to sea; and if she would
speak to my father to let me go but one voyage abroad, if
I came home again, and did not like it, I would go no more,
and I would promise by a double diligence to recover that
time I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion: she told me
she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father
upon any such subject; that he knew too well what was my
interest to give his consent to anything so much for my
hurt; and that she wondered how I could think of any
such thing after such a discourse as I had had with my
father, and such kind and tender expressions as she knew my
father had used to me; and that, in short, if I would ruin
myself, there was. no help for me; but I might depend I
should never have their consent to it: that for her part, she
would not have so much hand in my destruction; and I
should never have it to say, that my mother was willing
when my father was not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my father,
yet, as I have heard afterwards, she reported all the dis-
course to him, and that my father, after shewing a great
concern at it, said to her with a sigh: "That boy might
be happy if he would stay at home, but if he goes abroad,
he will be the miserablest wretch that was ever born: I
can give no consent to it."
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though in the mean time I continued obstinately deaf
to all proposals of settling to business, and frequently expostu-
lating with my father and mother, about their being so posi-
tively determined against what they knew my inclinations
prompted me to. But being one day at Hull, where I went
casually, and without any purpose of making an elopement
that time; but, I say, being there, and one of my companions
being going by sea to London, in his father's ship, and prompt-
ing me to go with them, with the common allurement of
seafaring men, viz., that it should cost me nothing for my
passage, I consulted neither father or mother any more,
nor so much as sent them word of it; but leaving them to
hear of it as they might, without asking God's blessing, or
my father's, without any consideration of circumstances or
consequences, and in an ill hour God knows, on the first of
September 1651* I went on board a ship bound for London.
Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe, began
sooner, or continued longer, than mine. The ship was no
sooner gotten out of the Humber, but the wind began to
blow, and the sea* to rise in a most frightful manner; and, as
I had never been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly sick
in body, and terrified in my mind. I began now seriously
to reflect upon what I had done, and how justly I was over-
taken by the judgment of Heaven for my wicked leaving
my father's house, and abandoning my duty; all the good
counsel of my parents, my father's tears and my mother's
entreaties, came now fresh into my mind, and my conscience,
which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which
it has been since, reproached me with the contempt of
advice, and the breach of my duty to God and my father.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I
had never been upon before, went very high, though nothing
like what I have seen many times since; no, nor like what I
saw a few days after: but it was enough to affect me then,
who was but a young sailor, and had never known anything
of the matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed
us up, and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought,
in the trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise
* Note. The dagger is used to call attention to variant readings listed on pp. 382-3
more; and in this agony of mind, I made many vows and
resolutions, that if it would please God here to spare my
life this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon dry
land again, I would go directly home to my father, and
never set it into a ship again while I lived"; that I would
take his advice, and never run myself into such miseries as
these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness of his
observations about the middle station of life, how easy, how
comfortably he had lived all his days, and never had been
exposed to tempests at sea, or troubles on shore; and I
resolved that I would, like a true repenting prodigal, go
home to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while
the storm continued, and indeed some time after; but the
next day the wind was abated and the sea calmer, and I
began to be a little inured to it: however, I was very grave
for all that day,, being also a little seasick still; but towards
night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and
a charming fine evening followed; the sun went down per-
fectly clear, and rose so the next morning; and having little
or no wind and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the
sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that ever I saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no more
seasick, but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the
sea that was so rough and terrible the day before, and could
be so calm and so pleasant in so little time after. And now
lest my good resolutions should continue, my companion,
who had indeed enticed me away, comes to me: "Well,
Bob," says he, clapping me on the shoulder, "how do you
do after it? I warrant you were frighted, wa'n't you, last
night, when it blew but a capful of wind?" "A capful,
d'you call it?" said I; "'twas a terrible storm." "A storm,
you fool you," replies he; "do you call that a storm? why,
it was nothing at all; give us but a good ship and sea room,
and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as that; but
you're but a fresh water sailor, Bob; come, let us make a
bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that; d'ye see what
charming weather 't is now?" To make short this sad part
of my story, we went the old way of all sailors, the punch
was made, and I was made drunk with it, and in that one
night's wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my
reflections upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions for
my future1. In a word, as the sea was returned to its
smoothness of surface and settled calmness by the abatement
of that storm, so the hurry2 of my thoughts being over, my
fears and apprehensions of being swallowed up by the
sea being forgotten, and the current of my former desires
returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises that I
made in my distress. I found indeed some intervals of
reflection, and the serious thoughts did, as it were, endeavor
to return again sometimes, but I shook them off, and roused
myself from them as it were from a distemper, and applying
myself to drink and company, soon mastered the return of
those fits (for so I called them), and I had in five or six days
got as complete a victory over conscience as any young fellow
that resolved not to be troubled with it could desire: but
I was to have another trial for it still; and Providence, as
in such cases generally it does, resolved to leave me entirely
without excuse. For if I would not take this for a deliver-
ance, the next was to be such a one as the worst and most
hardened wretch among us would confess both the danger
and the mercy.
The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yar-
mouth Roads; the wind having been contrary, and the
weather calm, we had made but little way since the storm.
Here we were obliged to come to an anchor, and here we
lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz., at southwest, for
seven or eight days, during which time a great many ships
1 my future: "Future" is probably an adjective here, with "conduct" under-
stood. The 6th ed. reads the future.
* hurry: agitation.
from Newcastle came into the same Roads, as the common
harbor where the ships might wait for a wind for the river.
We had not, however, rid1 here so long, but should have
tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too fresh; and,
after we had lain four or five days, blew very hard. How-
ever, the Roads being reckoned as good as a harbor, the
anchorage good, and our ground-tackle very .strong, our men
were unconcerned, and not in the least apprehensive of
danger, but spent the time in rest and mirth, after the man-
ner of the sea; but the eighth day, in the morning, the wind
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our top-
masts, and make everything snug and close, that the ship
might ride as easy as possible. By noon the sea went very
high indeed, and our ship rid forecastle in2, shipped several
seas, and we thought once or twice our anchor had come
home3; upon which our master ordered out the sheet anchor,
so that we rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables
veered out to the bitter* end.4
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed, and now
I began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of
the seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant to *
the business of preserving the ship, yet as he went in and
out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly to himself
say several times ,"Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be all
lost! we shall be all undone!" and the like. During these
first hurries I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which
was in the steerage, and cannot describe my temper; I could
ill reassume the first penitence, which I had so apparently
trampled upon, and hardened myself against: I thought the
bitterness of death had been past, and that this would be
1 We had not . . rid here: We should not have ridden here.
1 rid forecastle in: i.e., with bows under.
8 anchor had come home: was dragging.
* veered out to the bitter end: i.e.. with all the slack paid.out. out at full length.
N. E. D. quotes Capt. Smith: Seaman's Grammar (1627): "A Bitter is but the
turne of a Cable about the Bits, and veare it out by little and little. And the
Bitters end is that part of the Cable doth stay within boord." The bills are posts
on board ship to which cables are made fast.
nothing too, like the first.1 But when the master himself
came by me, as I said just now, and said we should be all
lost, I was dreadfully frighted: I got up out of my cabin,
and looked out; but such a dismal sight I never saw: the
sea went mountains high, and broke upon us every three
or four minutes: when I could look about, I could see
nothing but distress round us: two ships that rid near us
we found had cut their masts by the board, being deep
loaden; and our men cried out that a ship which rid about
a mile ahead of us was foundered. Two more ships, being
driven from their anchors, were run out of the Roads to
sea, at all adventures2, and that with not a mast standing.
The light ships fared the best, as not so much laboring in
the sea; but two or three of them drove, and came close by
us, running away with only their sprit-sail out before the
wind.
Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the
master of our ship to let them cut away the foremast, which
he was very unwilling to: but the boatswain protesting to
him, that if he did not, the ship would founder, he con-
sented; and when they had cut away the foremast, the
mainmast stood so loose, and shook the ship so much, they
were obliged to cut her away also, and make a clear deck.
Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at
all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been in
such a fright before at but a little. But if I can express
at this distance the thoughts I had about me at that time,
I was in tenfold more horror of mind upon account of my
former convictions, and the having returned from them to
the resolutions I had wickedly taken at first, than I was
at death itself; and these, added to the terror of the storm,
put me into such a condition, that I can by no words
describe it. But the worst was not come yet; the storm
continued with such fury, that the seamen themselves
1 the first: i.e. the first squall.
1 at all adventures: whatever might be the consequence.
acknowledged they had never known a worse. We had a
good ship, but she was deep loaden, and wallowed in the
sea, that the seamen every now and then cried out she
would founder. It was my advantage in one respect that
I did not know what they meant by founder, till I inquired.
However, the storm was so violent, that I saw what is not
often seen, the master, the boatswain, and some others more
sensible than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting every
moment when the ship would go to the bottom. In the
middle of the night, and under all the rest of our distresses,
one of the men that had been down on purpose to see, cried
out we had sprung a leak; another said there was four foot
water in the hold. Then all hands were called to the pump.
At that very word my heart, as I thought, died within me,
and I fell backwards upon the side of my bed where I
sat, into the cabin. However, the men roused me, and
told me, that I, that was able to do nothing before, was as
well able to pump as another; at which I stirred up, and
went to the pump, and worked very heartily. While this
was doing, the master seeing some light colliers, who, not
able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip and run away
to sea, and would come near us, ordered to fire a gun as a
signal of distress. I, who knew nothing what that meant,
was so surprised, that I thought the ship had broke, or some
dreadful thing had happened. In a word, I was so sur-
prised, that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a time
when everybody had his own life to think of, nobody minded
me, or what was become of me; but another man stept up
to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie,
thinking I had been dead; and it was a great while before
I came to myself.
We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold,
it was apparent that the ship would founder, and though the
storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she
could swim till we might run into a port, so the master
continued firing guns for help; and a light ship who had rid
it out just ahead of us ventured a boat out to help us. It
was with the utmost hazard the boat came near us, but it
was impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie
near the ship side, till at last the men rowing very heartily,
and venturing their lives to save ours, our men cast them
a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, and then veered it
out a great length, which they after great labor and hazard
took hold of, and we hauled them close under our stern, and
got all into their boat. It was to no purpose for them or
us, after we were in the boat, to think of reaching to their
own ship, so all agreed to let her drive, and only to pull
her in towards shore as much as we could, and our master
promised them, that if the boat was staved upon shore, he
would make it good to their master; so partly rowing and
partly driving, our boat went away to the norward, sloping
towards the shore almost as far as Winterton Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour
out of our ship, but we saw her sink, and then I understood
for the first time what was meant by a ship foundering in
the sea; I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up
when the seamen told me she was sinking; for from that
moment they rather put me into the boat than that I might
be said to go in, my heart was, as it were, dead within me,
partly with fright, partly with horror of mind and the
thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet laboring
at the oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could see
(when, our boat mounting the waves, we were able to see
the shore,) a great many people running along the strand *
to assist us when we should come near; but we made but slow
way towards the shore, nor were we able to reach the
shore, till, being past the lighthouse at Winterton, the shore
falls off to the westward towards Cromer, and so the land
broke off a little the violence of the wind: here we got
in, and, though not without much difficulty, got all safe on
shore, and walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, where,
as unfortunate men, we were used with great humanity, as
well by the magistrates of the town, who assigned us good
quarters, as by particular merchants and owners of ships,
and had money given us sufficient to carry us either to
London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull,
and have gone home, I had been happy, and my father, an
emblem of our blessed Saviour's parable, had even killed
the fatted calf for me; for hearing the ship I went away in
was cast away in Yarmouth Road, it was a great while
before he had any assurance that I was not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy
that nothing could resist; and though I had several times
loud calls from my reason and my more composed judgment
to go home, yet I had no power to do it. I know not what
to call this, nor will I urge that it is a secret overruling
decree that hurries us on to be the instruments of our own
destruction, even though it be before us, and that we rush
upon it with our eyes open. Certainly nothing but some
•such decreed unavoidable misery attending, and which it
was impossible for me to escape, could have pushed me for-
ward against the calm reasonings and persuasions of my
most retired thoughts, and against two such visible
instructions as I had met with in my first attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and
who was the master's son, was now less forward than I;
the first time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth,
which was not till after two or three days, for we were sep-
arated in the town to several quarters; I say, the first time he
saw me, it appeared his tone was altered, and looking very mel-
ancholy, and shaking his head, asked me how I did, and telling
his father who I was, and how I had come this voyage only
for a trial, in order to go farther abroad; his father, turning
to me with a very grave and concerned tone, "Young man,"
says he, you ought never to go to sea any more; you
ought to take this for a plain and visible token that
you are not to be a seafaring man." "Why, sir,"
said I, "will you go to sea no more?" "That is another
case," said he; "it is my calling, and therefore my duty;
but as you made this voyage for a trial, you see what a taste
Heaven has given you of what you are to expect if you
persist; perhaps this is all befallen us on your account, like
Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray," continues he, "what
are you? and on what account did you go to sea?" Upon
that I told him some of my story; at the end of which he
burst out with a strange kind of passion, "What had I
done," says he, "that such an unhappy wretch should come
into my ship? I would not set my foot in the same ship
with thee again for a thousand pounds." This indeed was,
as I said, an excursion of his spirits, which were yet agitated
by the sense of his loss, and was farther than he could have
authority to go. However he afterwards talked very gravely
to me, exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt
Providence to my ruin; told me I might see a visible hand
of Heaven against me, "and, young man," said he, "depend .
upon it, if you do not go back, wherever you go, you will
meet with nothing but disasters and disappointments, till
your father's words are fulfilled upon you."
We parted soon after; for I made him little answer,
and I saw him no more; which way he went, I know not.
As for me, having some money in my pocket, I travelled to
London by land; and there, as well as on the road, had
many struggles with myself, what course of life I should
take, and whether I should go home, or go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best motions1 that
offered to my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me
how I should be laughed at among the neighbors, and should
1 motions: Impulses, desires.
be ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even
everybody else; from whence I have since often observed,
how incongruous and irrational the common temper of man-
kind is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought to
guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not ashamed to
sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the
action for which they ought justly to be esteemed fools,
but are ashamed of the returning, which only can make them
be esteemed wise men.
In this state of life, however, I remained some time, uncer-
tain what measures to take, and what course of life to lead.
An irresistible reluctance continued to going home; and as
I stayed awhile, the remembrance of the distress I had been
in wore off; and as that abated, the little motion I had in
my desires to a return wore off with it, till at last I quite
laid aside the thoughts of it, and lookt out for a voyage.
That evil influence which carried me first away from
my father's house, that hurried me into the wild and indi-
gested notion of raising my fortune, and that impresst those
conceits so forcibly upon me, as to make me deaf to all good
advice, and to the entreaties and even command of my
father; I say, the same influence, whatever it was, presented
the most unfortunate of all enterprises to my view; and I
went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa, or, as
our sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune that in all these adventures
I did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though I might
indeed have workt a little harder than ordinary, yet at the
same time I had learned the duty and office of a foremast
man; and in time might have qualified myself for a mate
or lieutenant, if not for a master: but as it was always my
fate to choose for the worse, so I did here; for having money
in my pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I would always
go on board in the habit of a gentleman; and so I neither
had any business in the ship, or learned to do any.
It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good com-
pany in London, which does not always happen to such
loose and unguided young fellows as I then was; the devil
generally not omitting to lay some snare for them very early:
but it was not so with me; I first fell acquainted with the
master of a ship who had been on the coast of Guinea; and
who, having had very good success there, was resolved to go
again; and who, taking a fancy to my conversation, which
was not at all disagreeable at that time, hearing me say I
had a mind to see the world, told me if I would go the
voyage with him I should be at no expense; I should be
his messmate and his companion, and if I could carry any-
thing with me, I should have all the advantage of it that
the trade would admit; and perhaps I might meet with some
encouragement.
I embraced the offer, and entering into a strict friendship
with this captain, who was an honest and plain-dealing man,
I went the voyage with him, and carried a small adventure
with me, which, by the disinterested honesty of my friend
the captain, I increased very considerably; for I carried about
£40 in such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to
buy. This £40 I had mustered together by the assistance of
some of my relations whom I corresponded with, and who,
I believe, got my father, or at least my mother, to contribute
so much as that to my first adventure.
This was the only voyage which I may say was successful
in all my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and
honesty of my friend the captain, under whom also I got
a competent knowledge of the mathematics and the rules of
navigation, learned how to keep an account of the ship's
course, take an observation, and, in short, to understand
some things that were needful to be understood by a sailor:
for, as he took delight to introduce me, I took delight to
learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a sailor
and a merchant; for I brought home 5 pounds 9 ounces of
gold dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London, at
my return, almost £300, and this rilled me with those aspir-
ing thoughts which have since so completed my ruin.
Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too; par-
ticularly, that I was continually sick, being thrown into a
violent calenture1 by the excessive heat of the climate; our
principal trading being upon the coast, from the latitude of
fifteen degrees north, even to the line itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend,
to my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I
resolved to go the same voyage again, and I embarked in
the same vessel with one who was his mate in the former
voyage, and had now got the command of the ship. This
was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made; for though
I did not carry quite £100 of my new-gained wealth, so
that I had £200 left, and which I lodged with my friend's
widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell into terrible
misfortunes in this voyage; and the first was this, viz., our
ship making her course towards the Canary Islands, or rather
between those islands and the African shore, was surprised
in the gray of the morning, by a Turkish rover of Sallee2,
who gave chase to us with all the sail she could make. We
crowded also as much canvas as our yards would spread, or
our masts carry, to have got clear; but finding the pirate
gained upon us, and would certainly come up with us in a
few hours, we prepared to fight; our ship haying twelve guns,
and the rogue eighteen. About three in the afternoon he
came up with us, and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart
our quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we
brought eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured
in a broadside upon him, which made him sheer off again,
after returning our fire, and pouring in also his small-shot
from near two hundred men which he had on board. How-
ever, we had not a man touched, all our men keeping close.
1 calenture: A violent fever prevalent in the tropica.
2 Sallee: A town on the northwest coast of Morocco.
He prepared to attack us again, and we to defend ourselves;
but laying us on board the next time upon our other quarter,
he entered sixty men upon our decks, who immediately fell
to cutting and hacking the decks and rigging. We plied
them with small-shot, half-spikes, powder-chests, and such
like, and cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut
short this melancholy part of our story, our ship being dis-
abled, and three of our men killed, and eight wounded, we
were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners into
Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first
I apprehended, nor was I carried up the country to the
emperor's court, as the rest of our men were, but was kept
by the captain of the rover, as his proper prize, and made
his slave, being young and nimble, and fit for his business.
At this surprising change of my circumstances from a mer-
chant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed; and
now I looked back upon my father's prophetic discourse to
me, that I should be miserable, and have none to relieve me,
which I thought was now so effectually brought to pass,
that it* could not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven
had overtaken me, and I was undone without redemption.
But alas! this was but a taste of the misery I was to go
through, as will appear in the sequel1 of this story.
As my new patron or master had taken me home to his
house, so I was in hopes that he would take me with him
when he went to sea again, believing that it would some
time or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portugal
man-of-war; and that then I should be set at liberty. But this
hope of mine was soon taken away; for when he went to sea,
he left me on shore to look after his little garden, and do
the common drudgery of slaves about his house; and when
he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie in
the cabin to look after the ship.
\ 'sequel: what follows; not Part II.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method I might take to effect it, but found no way that
had the least probability in it: nothing presented to make
the supposition of it rational; for I had nobody to communi-
cate it to, that would embark with me; no fellow-slave, no
Englishman, Irishman, or Scotsman there but myself; so
that for two years, though I often pleased myself with the
imagination, yet I never had the least encouraging prospect
of putting it in practice.
After about two years an odd circumstance presented
itself, which put the old thought of making some attempt
for my liberty again in my head: my patron lying at home
longer than usual, without fitting out his ship, which, as I
heard, was for want of money, he used constantly, once or
twice a week, sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair,
to take the ship's pinnace, and go out into the road arfishing;
and as he always took me and a young Maresco with him
to row the boat, we made him very merry, and I proved
very dexterous in catching fish; insomuch that sometimes
he would send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and
the youth, the Maresco, as they called him, to catch a dish
of fish for him.
It happened one time, that going a-fishing in a stark1
calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were not
half a league from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowing
we knew not whither or which way, we labored all day
and all the next night; and when the morning came, we found
we had pulled off to sea instead of pulling in for the shore; and
that we were at least two leagues from the shore: however,
we got-well in again, though with a great deal of labor, and
some danger; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the
morning; but particularly we were all very hungry.
But our patron, warned by this' disaster, resolved to
take more care of himself for the future; and having lying
1 stark: wholly, completely.
by him the long-boat of our English ship they * had taken,
he resolved he would not go a-fishing any more without a
compass and some provision; so he ordered the carpenter of
his ship, who also was an English slave, to build a little state-
room or cabin, in the middle of the long-boat, like that of a
barge, with a place to stand behind it to steer and hale1
home the main-sheet; and room before for a hand or two
to stand and work the sails; she sailed with that we call a
shoulder-of-mutton sail; and the boom jibbed over the top
of the cabin, which lay very snug and low, and had in it
room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to eat
on, with some small lockers to put in some bottles of such
liquor as he thought fit to drink*; particularly his bread,
rice, and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing; and
as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went
without me: it happened that he had appointed to go out in
this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with two or three
Moors of some distinction in that place, and for whom he
had provided extraordinarily, and had therefore sent on
board the boat over night a larger store of provisions than
ordinary; and had ordered me to get ready three fuzees2
with powder and shot, which were on board his ship, for
that they designed some sport of fowling as well as fishing.
* I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited
the next morning with the boat washed clean, her ancient3
and pendants4 out, and everything to accommodate his guests;
when by and by my patron * came on board alone, and told
me his guests had put off going, upon some business that fell
out, and ordered me with the man and boy, as usual, to go
out with the boat and catch them some fish, for that his
friends were to sup at his house; and commanded that as
'hale: haul.
'futees: light muskets.
• ancient: a corruption of "ensign," a flag or the petty officer who has charge of
the flag. Here it means "flag."
* pendants: pennants.
soon as I had got some fish I should bring it home to his
house; all which I prepared to do.
This moment my former notions of deliverance darted
into my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a
little ship at my command; and my master being gone, I
prepared to furnish myself, not for a fishing business, but for
a voyage; though I knew not, neither did I so much as con-
sider, whither I should steer; for anywhere to get out of that
place was my way.
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak
to this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on board;
for I told him we must not presume to eat of our patron's
bread: he said that was true; so he brought a large basket
of rusk or biscuit of their kind, and three jars with fresh
water, into the boat: I knew where my patron's case of
bottles stood, which it was evident by the make were taken
out of some English prize; and I conveyed them into the
boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they had been there
before, for our master: I conveyed also a great lump of
beeswax into the boat, which weighed above half a hundred-
weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw,
and a hammer, all which were great use to us afterwards;
especially the wax to make candles. Another trick I tried
upon him, which he innocently came into also: his name
was Ismael, who they call Muly, or Moely; so I called to
him: "Moely," said I, "our patron's guns are on board
the boat; can you not get a little powder and shot? It
may be we may kill some alcamies" (a fowl like our
curlews) "for ourselves, for I know he keeps the gunner's
stores in the ship." "Yes," says he, "I'll bring some;" and
accordingly he brought a great leather pouch, which held
about a pound and a half of powder, or rather more; and
another with shot, that had-five or six pound, with some
bullets; and put all into the boat: at the same time I had
found some powder of my master's in the great cabin, with
which I filled one of the large bottles in the case, which
was almost empty; pouring what was in it into another:
and thus furnished with everything needful, we sailed out
of the port to fish: the castle, which is at the entrance of the
port, knew who we were, and took no notice of us; and
we were not above a mile out of the port before we haled
in our sail, and set us down to fish. The wind blew from
the N. NE., which was contrary to my desire; for had it
blown southerly, I had been sure to have made the coast of
Spain, and at least reacht to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolu-
tions were, blow which way it would, I would be gone from
that horrid place where I was, and leave the rest to Fate.
After we had fisht some time and catcht nothing, for
when I had fish on my hook I would not pull them up,
that he might not see them; I said to the Moor, "This will
not do; our master will not be thus served; we must stand
• farther off." He, thinking no harm, agreed, and being in
the head of the boat, set the sails; and as I had the helm, I
run the boat out near a league farther, and then brought
her to, as if I would fish; when, giving the boy the helm, I
stept forward to where the Moor was, and making as if I
stoopt for something behind him, I took him by surprise
with my arm under his twist1, and tost him clear overboard
into the sea; he rose immediately, for he swam like a cork,
and called to me, begged to be taken in, told me he would
go all the world over with me: he swam so strong after
the boat that he would have reacht me very quickly, there
being but little wind; upon which I stept into the cabin,
and fetching one of the fowling-pieces, I presented it at
him, and told him I had done him no hurt, and if he would
be quiet I would do him none: "But," said I, "you swim
well enough to reach to the shore, and the sea is calm; make
the best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm;
'twist: the bifurcation or fork of the legs. Bailey's Dictionary (vol. 11, ?d
ed., 1737) defines it as "the inside or flat part of the thigh, upon which a true
horseman rests on horseback."
but if you come near the boat, I'll shoot you through the
head; for I am resolved to have my liberty." So he turned
himself about, and swam for the shore, and I make no doubt
but he reacht it with ease, for he was an excellent swimmer.
I could ha' been content to ha' taken this Moor with me,
and ha' drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to
trust him: when he was gone, I turned to the boy, who
they called Xury, and said to him, "Xury, if you will be
faithful to me I'll make you a great man; but if you will
not stroke your face to be true to me," (that is, swear by
Mahomet and his father's beard), "I must throw you into
the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so
innocently that I could not mistrust him; and swore to be
faithful to me, and go all over the world with me.
While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming,
I stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching
to windward, that they might think me gone towards the
Straits'1 mouth (as indeed any one that had been in their
wits must ha' been supposed to do); for who would ha'
supposed we were sailed on to the southward to the truly
barbarian coast, where whole nations of negroes were sure
to surround us with their canoes, and destroy us; where we
could ne'er once go on shore but we should be devoured by
savage beasts, or more merciless savages of human kind?
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed
my course, and steered directly south and by east, bending
my course a little toward the east, that I might keep in with
the shore; and having a fair, fresh gale of wind, and a
smooth, quiet sea, I made such sail that I believe by the
next day at three o'clock in the afternoon, when I first made
the land, I could not be less than 150 miles south of
Sallee; quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco's dominions,
or indeed of any other king thereabouts, for we saw no
people.
'Straits': the Straits of Gibraltar, which lay to the north.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and
the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their hands,
that I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to an anchor,
the wind continuing fair, till I had sailed in that manner
five days: and then the wind shifting to the southward, I
concluded also that if any of our vessels were in chase of
me, they also would now give over; so I ventured to make
to the coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little
river, I knew not what, or where; neither what latitude,
what country, what nation*, or what river: I neither saw,
or desired to see, any people; the principal thing I wanted
was fresh water: we came into this creek in the evening,
resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and
discover1 the country; but as soon as it was quite dark, we
heard such dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, and
howling of wild creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that
the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of me
not to go on shore till day. "Well, Xury," said I, "then I
won't; but it may be we may see men by day, who will be
as bad to us as those lions." "Then we give them the shoot
gun,'' says Xury, laughing, "make them run wey." Such
English Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. How-
ever, I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him
a dram (out of our patron's case of bottles) to cheer him
up: after all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it: we dropt
our little anchor, and lay still all night; I say still, for we
slept none! for in two or three hours we saw vast great
creatures (we knew not what to call them) of many sorts,
come down to the seashore and run into the water, wallow-
ing and washing themselves for the pleasure of cooling them-
selves; and they made such hideous howlings and yellings,
that I never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too;
but we were both more frighted when we heard one of
1 discover: explore.
these mighty creatures come swimming towards our boat;
we could not see him, but we might hear him by his blowing
to be a monstrous * huge and furious beast; Xury said it
was a lion, and it might be so for aught I know; but poor
Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away. "No,"
says I, "Xury, we can slip our cable with the buoy to it and
go off to sea; they cannot follow us far." I had no sooner
said so, but I perceived the creature (whatever it was)
within two oars'* length, which something surprised me; how-
ever, I immediately stept to the cabin door, and taking up
my gun, fired at him; upon which he immediately turned
about and swam towards the shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises and
hideous cries and howlings, that were raised, as well upon
the edge of the shore as higher within the country, upon
the noise or report of the gun, a thing I have some reason
to believe those creatures had never heard before: this con-
vinced me that there was no going on shore for us in the
night upon that coast, and how to venture on shore in the
day was another question too; for to have fallen into the
hands of any of the savages, had been as bad as to have
fallen into the hands of lions and tigers; at least we were
equally apprehensive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint left
in the boat; when or where to get to it was the point:
Xury said, if I would let him go on shore with one of the
jars, he would find if there was any water, and bring some
to me. I asked him why he would go? why I should not
go, and he stay in the boat? The boy answered with so
much affection that made me love him ever after. Says he,
"If wild mans come, they eat me, you go wey." "Well,
Xury," said I, "we will both go, and if the wild mans come,
we will kill them; they shall eat neither of us." So I gave
Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat and a dram out of our
patron's case of bottles which I mentioned before; and we
haled the boat in as near the shore as we thought was
proper, and so waded on shore, carrying nothing but our
arms and two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing
the coming of canoes with savages down the river; but the
boy seeing a low place about a mile up the country, rambled
to it, and by and by I saw him come running towards me;
I thought he was pursued by some savage, or frighted with
some wild beast, and I run forward towards him to help
him; but when I came nearer to him, I saw something hang-
ing over his shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot,
like a hare, but different in color, and longer legs; however,
we were very glad of it, and it was very good meat; but
the great joy "that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he
had found good water and seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take such
pains for water, for a little higher up the creek where we
were, we found the water fresh when the tide was out,
which flowed but a little way up; so we filled pur jars, and
feasted on the hare we had killed, and prepared to go on
our way, having seen no footsteps of any human creature
in that part of the country.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew
very well that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de
Verde Islands also, lay not far off from the coast. But as I
had no instruments to take an observation to know what
latitude we were in, and did not exactly know, or at least
remember*, what latitude they were in, I knew not where
to look for them, or when to stand off to sea towards them;
otherwise I might now easily have found some of these
islands. But my hope was that if I stood along this coast
till I came to that part where the English traded, I should
find some of their vessels upon their usual design of trade,
that would relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where I now
was must be that country which, lying between the Emperor
of Morocco's dominions and the negroes, lies waste and
uninhabited, except by wild beasts; the negroes having
abandoned it and gone farther south for fear of the Moors;
and the Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason
of its barrenness; and indeed both forsaking it because of
the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, leopards, and other
furious creatures which harbor there; so that the Moors use
it for their hunting only, where they go like an army, two
or three thousand men at a time; and indeed for near an
hundred miles together upon this coast we saw nothing but
a waste uninhabited country by day, and heard nothing but
howlings and roaring of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice in the daytime, I thought I saw the Pico1
of Teneriffe, being the high top of the mountain Teneriffe in
the Canaries; and had a great mind to venture out, in hopes
of reaching thither; but having tried twice, I was forced in
again by contrary winds, the sea also going too high for my
little vessel, so I resolved to pursue my first design and keep
along the shore.
Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water,
after we had left this place; and once in particular, being
early in the morning, we came to an anchor under a little
point of land which was pretty high, and the tide beginning
to flow, we lay still to go farther in; Xury, whose eyes were
more about him than it seems mine were, calls softly to me,,
and tells me that we had best go farther off the shore; "for,"
says he, "look, yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of
that hillock, fast asleep." I looked where he pointed, and
saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it was a terrible great
lion that lay on the side of the shore, under the shade of a
piece of the hill that hung as it were a little over him.
"Xury," says I, "you shall go on shore and kill him." Xury
'Pico: Peak.
looked frighted, and said, "Me kill! he eat me at one mouth;"
one mouthful he meant. However, I said no more to the
boy, but bade him lie still, and I took our biggest gun, which
was almost musket-bore, and loaded it with a good charge
of powder, and with two slugs, and laid it down; then I
loaded another gun with two bullets; and the third, for we
had three pieces, I loaded with five smaller bullets. I took
the best aim I could with the first piece, to have shot him
into the head, but he lay so with his leg raised a little above
his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee, and broke
the bone. He started up growling at first, but finding his
leg broke, fell down again, and then got up upon three
legs, and gave the most hideous roar that ever I heard. I
was a little surprised that I had not hit him on the head;
however, I took up the second piece immediately, and though
he began to move off, fired again, and shot him into the
head, and had the pleasure to see him drop, and make but
little noise, but lay struggling for life. Then Xury took
heart, and would have me let him go on shore. "Well,
go," said I, so the boy jumped into the water, and taking a
little gun in one hand, swam to shore with the other hand,
and coming close to the creature, put the muzzle of the
piece to his ear, and shot him into the head again, which
despatched him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no food, and
I was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot
upon a creature that was good" for nothing to us. However,
Xury said he would have some of him; so he comes on
board, and asked me to give him the hatchet. "For what,
Xury?" said I. "Me cut off his head," said he. However,
Xury could not cut off his head, but he cut off a foot and
brought it with him, and it was a monstrous great one.
I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of
him might one way or other be of some value to us; 'and I
resolved to take off his skin if I could. So Xury and I
went to work with him; but Xury was much the better
workman at it, for I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed it
took us both the whole day, but at last we got off the hide of
him, and spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun
effectually dried it in two days' time, and it afterwards
served me to lie upon.
After this stop we made on to the southward continually
for ten or twelve days, living very sparing on our provisions,
which began to abate very much, and going no oftener into*
the shore than we were obliged to for fresh water; my design
in this was to make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is to
say, anywhere about the Cape de Verde, where I was in
hopes to meet with some European ship, and if I did not, I
knew not what course I had to take, but to seek for * the
islands, or perish there among the negroes. I knew that all
the ships from Europe, which sailed either to the coast of
Guinea, or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this cape
or those islands; and in a word, I put the whole of my
fortune upon this single point, either that I must meet with
some ship, or must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I have said, I began to see that the land was
inhabited, and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we
saw people stand upon the shore to look at us; we could also
perceive they were quite black and stark naked. I was once
inclined to ha' gone on shore to them; but Xury was my
better counsellor, and said to me, "No go, no go." How-
ever, I haled in nearer the shore that I might talk to them,
and I found they run along the shore by me a good way: I
observed they had no weapons in their hands, except one,
who had a long slender stick, which Xury said was a lance,
and that they would throw them a great way with good
aim; so I kept at a distance, but talked with them by signs
as well as I could; and particularly made signs for some-
thing to eat; they beckoned to me to stop my boat, and that
they would fetch me some meat; upon this I lowered the top
of my sail, and lay by, and two of them run up into the
country, and in less than half an hour came back, and
brought with them two pieces of dry flesh and some corn,
such as is the produce of their country, but we neither knew
what the one or the other was; however, we were willing
to accept it, but how to come at it was our next dispute, for I
was not for venturing on shore to them, and they were as
much afraid of us; but they took a safe way for us all, for
they brought it to the shore and laid it down, and went and
stood a great way off till we fetched it on board, and then
came close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing
to make them amends; but an opportunity offered that very
instant to oblige them wonderfully, for while we were lying
by the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the
other (as we took it) with great fury from the mountains
towards the sea; whether it was the male pursuing the female,
or whether they were in sport or in rage, we could not tell,
any more than we could tell whether it was usual or strange,
but I believe it was the latter; because, in the first place,
those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the night;
and in the second place, we found the people terribly frighted,
especially the women. The man that had the lance or dart
did not fly from them, but the rest did; however, "as the
two creatures ran directly into the water, they did not seem
to offer to fall upon any of the negroes, but plunged them-
selves into the sea and swam about as if they had come for
their diversion: at last, one of them began to come nearer
our boat than at first I expected; but I lay ready for him,
for I had loaded my gun with all possible expedition, and
bade Xury load both the other1; as soon as he came fairly
within my reach, I fired, and shot him directly into the
head; immediately he sunk down into the water, but rose
'the other: i. e. , the other [guns]; cf. notes, pp. 171. 195. 329.
instantly and plunged up and down as if he was struggling
for life, and so indeed he was; he immediately made to the
shore; but between the wound, which was his mortal hurt,
and the strangling of the water, he died just before he
reached the shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor
creatures at the noise and the fire of my gun; some of them
were even ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with
the very terror. But when they saw the creature dead and
sunk in the water, and that I made signs to them to come
to the shore, they took heart and came to the shore and began
to search for the creature. I found him by his blood stain-
ing the water, and by the help of a rope which I flungt, round
him and gave the negroes to haul, they dragged him on shore,
and found that it was a most curious leopard, spotted and
fine to an admirable degree, and the negroes held up their
hands with admiration1, to think what it was I had killed
him with.
The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire and
the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to
the mountains from whence they came, nor could I at that
distance know what it was. I found quickly the negroes
were for eating the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to
have them take it as a favor from me, which, when I made
signs to them that they might take him, they were very
thankful for. Immediately they fell to work with him,
and though they had no knife, yet with a sharpened piece
of wood they took off his skin as readily2, and much more
readily than we could have done with a knife; they offered
me some of the flesh, which I declined, making as if I would
give it them, but made signs for the skin, which they gave
me very freely, and brought me a great deal more of their
1 admiration: wonder.
2 took off his skin as readily: i.e., as readily as if they had had a knife, Defoe's
sentences are often not quite precise in phrasing, and often are loosely put to-
gether, with shifts of construction or omissions of necessary words. Cf. notes,
pp. 172, 213.
provision, which, though I did not understand, yet I
accepted; then I made signs to them for some water, and
held out one of my jars to them, turning it bottom upward,
to shew that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it
filled. They called immediately to some of their friends,
and there came two women and brought a great vessel made
of earth, and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun; this they set
down for me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my
jars, and filled them all three: the women were as stark
naked as the men.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was,
and water, and leaving my friendly negroes,. I made forward
for about eleven days more without offering to go near the
shore, till I saw the land run out a great length into the
sea, at about the distance of four or five leagues before me,
and the sea being very calm, I kept a large offing to make
this point; at length, doubling the point at about two leagues
from the land, I saw plainly land on the other side to sea-
ward; then I concluded, as it was most certain indeed, that
this was the Cape de Verde, and those the islands, called
from thence Cape de Verde Islands. However, they were
at a great distance, and I could not well tell what I had
best to do; for if I should be taken with a fresh of wind, I
might neither reach one or other.
In this dilemma*, as I was very pensive, I stept into the
cabin, and sat me down, Xury having the helm, when on a
sudden the boy cried out, "Master, master, a ship with a
sail!" and the foolish boy was frighted out of his wits, think-
ing it must needs be some of his master's ships sent to pursue
us, when I knew we were gotten far enough out of their
reach. I jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw-
not only the ship but what she was, (viz.) that it was a
Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the coast
of Guinea for negroes. But when I observed the course she
steered, I was soon convinced they were bound some other
way, and did not design to come any nearer to the shore;
upon which I stretched out to sea as much as I could, resolv-
ing to speak with them if possible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I should not
be able to come in their way, but that they would be gone
by before I could make any signal to them; but after I had
crowded1 to the utmost, and began to despair, they it seems
saw me by the help of their perspective glasses, and that it
was some European boat, which, as they supposed, must
belong to some ship that was lost, so they shortened sail to
let me come up. I was encouraged with this, and as I
had my patron's ancient on board, I made a waft of it to
them for a signal of distress, and fired a gun, both which
they saw, for they told me they saw the smoke, though they
did not hear the gun; upon these signals they very kindly
brought to, and lay by for me, and in about three hours'
time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish,
and in French, but I understood none of them; but at last a
Scots sailor who was on board called to me, and I answered
him, and told him I was an Englishman, that I had made my
escape out of slavery from the Moors at Sallee; then they
bade me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and all
my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, that any one will
believe, that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from
such a miserable and almost hopeless condition as I was in,
and I immediately offered all I had to the captain of the
ship, as a return for my deliverance; but he generously told
me he would take nothing from me, but that all I had
should be delivered safe to me when I came to the Brazils.
"For," says he, "I have saved your life on no other terms than
I would be glad to be saved myself, and it may one time or
other be my lot to be taken up in the same condition;
Crowded: i.e., crowded on sail.
besides," says he, "when I carry you to the Brazils, so great
a way from your own country, if I should take from you
what you have, you will be starved there, and then I only
take away that life I have given. No, no, Seignior Inglese,"
says he (Mr. Englishman), "I will carry you thither in
charity, and those things will help you to buy your subsist-
ence there and your passage home again."
As he was charitable in his proposal, so he was just in
the performance to a tittle, for he ordered the seamen that
none should offer to touch anything I had; then he took
everything into his own possession, and gave me back an
exact inventory of them, that I might have them, even so
much as my three earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he saw,
and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's use, and
asked me what I would have for it. I told him he had
been so generous to me in everything, that I could noi offer to
make any price of the boat, but left it entirely to him, upon
which he told me he would give me a note of his hand to pay
me 80 pieces of eight1 for it at Brazil, and when it came there,
if any one offered to give more, he would make it up; he
offered me also 60 pieces of eight more for my boy Xury,
which I was loath to take, not that I was not willing to let
the captain have him, but I was very loath to sell the poor
boy's liberty, who had assisted me so faithfully in procuring
my own. However, when I let him know my reason, he
owned it to be just, and offered me this medium2, that he
would give the boy an obligation3 to set him free in ten years,
if he turned Christian; upon this, and Xury saying he was
willing to go to him, I let the captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived
in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in about
twenty-two days after. And now I was once more delivered
1 pieces of eight: piasters,—Spanish coins,—formerly divided into eight reals.
A piaster was worth a trifle over a dollar.
2 medium: compromise; cf. "split the difference," "go half way."
8 obligation: bond.
from the most miserable of all conditions of life, and what to
do next with myself I was now to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can
never enough remember: he would take nothing of me for
my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's skin,
and forty for the lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and
caused everything I had in the ship to be punctually delivered
me, and what I was willing to sell, he bought, such as the
case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump
of beeswax, for I had made candles of the rest; in a word, I
made about 220 pieces of eight of all my cargo, and with
this stock, I went on shore in the Brazils*.
I had not been long here, but being recommended to the
house of a good honest man like himself, who had an ingenio
as they call it, that is, a plantation and a sugar-house, I lived
with him some time, and acquainted myself by that means
with the manner of their planting and making of sugar; and
seeing how well the planters lived, and how they grew rich
suddenly, I resolved, if I could get license to settle there, I
would turn planter among them, resolving in the mean time
to find out some way to get my money which I had left in
London remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind
of a letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land that
was uncured1 as my money would reach, and formed a plan
for my plantation and settlement, and such a one as might
be suitable to the stock which I proposed to myself to receive
from England.
I had a neighbor, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such
circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbor, because
his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on very sociably
together. My stock was but low, as well as his; and we
rather planted for food than anything else, for about two
years. However, we began to increase, and our land began
1 uncured: uncared for, uncultivated.
to come into order; so that the third year we planted some
tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground ready
for planting canes in the year to come; but we both wanted
help, and now I found, more than before, I had done wrong
in parting with my boy Xury.
But, alas! for me to do wrong that never did right,
was no great wonder: I had no remedy but to go on; I
was gotten into an employment quite remote to my genius,
and directly contrary to the life I delighted in, and for
which I forsook my father's house, and broke through all
his good advice; nay, I was coming into the very middle
station, or upper degree of low life, which my father advised
me to before, and which, if I resolved to go on with, I might
as well ha' stayed at home, and never have fatigued myself
in the world as I had done; and I used often to say to
myself, I could ha' done this as well in England among my
friends, as ha' gone 5000 miles off to do it among strangers
and savages in a wilderness, and at such a distance as never
to hear from any part of the world that had the least
knowledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition with
the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse with, but now
and then this neighbor; no work to be done, but by the
labor of my hands; and I used to say, I lived just like a man
cast away upon some desolate island, that had nobody there
but himself. But how just has it been, and how should all
men reflect, that when they compare their present conditions
with others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them to make
the exchange, and be convinced of their former felicity by
their experience: I say, how just has it been, that the truly
solitary life I reflected on in an island of mere1 desolation
should be my lot, who had so often unjustly compared it
with the life which I then led, in which had I continued,
I had in all probability been exceeding prosperous and rich.
1 mere: complete, absolute.
I was in some degree settled in my measures for carry-
ing on the plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of
the ship that took me up at sea, went back; for the ship
remained there in providing his loading, and preparing for
his voyage, near three months, when, telling him what little
stock I had left behind me in London, he gave me this
friendly and sincere advice: "Seignior Inglese," says he, for
so he always called me, "if you will give me letters, and
a procuration here in form to me, with orders to the person
who has your money in London, to send your effects to Lis-
bon, to such persons as I shall direct, and in such goods as are
proper for this country, I will bring you the produce of
them, God willing, at my return; but since human affairs
are all subject to changes and disasters, I would have you
give orders but for one hundred pounds sterl., which you
say is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
first; so that if it come safe, you may order the rest the same
way; and if it miscarry, you may have the other half to have
recourse to for your supply."
This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly,
that I could not but be convinced it was the best course I
could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentle-
woman with whom I had left my money, and a procuration
to the Portuguese captain, as he desired.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of
all my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how I had met
with the Portugal captain at sea, the humanity of his
behavior, and in what condition I was now in, with all other
necessary directions for my supply; and when this honest cap-
tain came to Lisbon, he found means, by some of the English
merchants there, to send over not the order only, but a full
account of my story to a merchant at London, who represented
it effectually to her; whereupon she not only delivered the
money, but out of her own pocket sent the Portugal captain a
very handsome present for his humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London vesting this hundred pounds
in English goods, such as the captain had writ for, sent them
directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to
me to the Brazils, among which, without my direction (for
I was too young in my business to think of them), he had
taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron-work, and utensils
necessary for my plantation, and which were of great use to
me.
When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune T made,
for I was surprised with joy of it; and my good steward,
the captain, had laid out five pounds which my friend had
sent him for a present for himself, to purchase and bring me
over a servant under bond1 for six years' service, and would
not accept of any consideration, except a little tobacco, which
I would have him accept, being of my own produce.
Neither was this all; but my goods being all English
manufactures, such as cloth, stuffs, baize, and things particu-
larly valuable and desirable in the country, I found means
to sell them to a very great advantage; so that I might say,
I had more than four times the value of my first cargo,
and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbor, I mean
in the advancement of my plantation; for the first thing I
did, I bought me a negro slave, and an European servant
also, I mean another besides that which the captain brought
me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very
means of our greatest adversity, so was it with me. I went
on the next year with great success in my plantation: I
raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on my own ground, more
than I had disposed of for necessaries among my neighbors;
and these fifty rolls, being each of above a 100 wt., were well
cured and laid by against the return of the fleet from Lis-
1 servant under bond: In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries petty crim-
inals and unfortunates of various descriptions were often sent to the colonies
in America as bound servants, i.e., under a bond to serve a master for a definite
term of years without pay.
bon: and now increasing in business and in wealth, my head
began to be full of projects and undertakings beyond my
reach; such as are indeed often the ruin of the best heads in
business.
Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have yet befallen me for
which my father so earnestly recommended a quiet, retired
life, and of which he had so sensibly described the middle
station of life to be full of; but other things attended me1,
and I was still to be the wilful agent of all my own miseries;
and particularly to increase my fault and double the reflec-
tions upon myself which in my future sorrows I should have
leisure to make; all these miscarriages were procured by my
apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish inclination of wan-
dering abroad, and pursuing that inclination, in contradiction
to the clearest views of doing myself good in a fair and plain
pursuit of those prospects and those measures of life which
nature and Providence concurred to present me with and
to make my duty.
As I had once done thus in my breaking away from my
parents, so I could not be content now, but I must go and
leave the happy view I had of being a rich and thriving
man in my new plantation, only to pursue a rash and immod-
erate desire of rising faster than the nature of the thing admit-
ted; and thus I cast myself down again into the deepest
gulf of human misery that ever man fell into, or perhaps
could be consistent with life and a state of health in the world.
To come then by the just degrees to the particulars of
this part of my story; you may suppose, that having now lived
almost four years in the Brazils*, and beginning to thrive and
prosper very well upon my plantation, I had not only learned
the language, but had contracted acquaintance and friend-
ship among my fellow-planters, as well as among the mer-
chants at St. Salvadore, which was our port; and that in
1 attended me: were awaiting me.
my discourses among them I had frequently given them an
account of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the man-
ner of trading with the negroes there, and how easy it was
to purchase upon the coast, for trifles—such as beads, toys,
knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass, and the like—not
only gold dust, Guinea grains1, elephants' teeth, etc., but
negroes for the service of the Brazils, in great numbers.
They listened always very attentively to my discourses
on these heads, but especially to that part which related to
the buying negroes, which was a trade at that time not
only not far entered into, but as far as it was, had been
carried on by the assientos2, or permission, of the kings of
Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in the public3, so that
few negroes were brought, and those excessive dear.
It happened, being in company with some merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very
earnestly, three of them came to me the next morning, and
told me they had been musing very much upon what I had
discoursed with them of, the last night, and they came to
make a secret proposal to me; and after enjoining me secrecy,
they told me that they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to
Guinea; that they had all plantations as well as I, and were
straitened for nothing so much as servants; that as it was a
trade that could not be carried on, because they could not
publicly sell the negroes when they came home, so they
desired to make but one voyage, to bring the negroes on
shore privately, and divide them among their own plantations;
and in a word, the question was, whether I would go their
supercargo in the ship to manage the trading part upon
the coast of Guinea; and they offered me that I should have
1 Guinea grains: A variety of cardamom seed, used as a spice and in medicine;
called also "grains of Paradise."
2 assientos: "No word at the beginning of the eighteenth century was more
commonly heard among merchants than assienlo, by which was understood the
right to supply the Spanish colonies with slaves."—Roscoe: Robert Harley, p. 148.
3 engrossed in the public: This probably means "monopolized by the state,"
though the passage is difficult. Clearly the traffic in slaves constituted a State
monopoly.
my equal share of the negroes without providing any part
of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it
been made to any one that had not had a settlement and
plantation of his own to look after, which was in a fair way
of coming to be very considerable, and with a good stock
upon it. But for me, that was thus entered and established,
and had nothing to do but go on as I had begun for three
or four years more, and to have sent for the other hundred
pound from England, and who in that time, and with that
little addition, could scarce ha' failed of being worth three
or four thousand pounds sterling, and that increasing too;
for me to think of such a voyage was the most preposterous
thing that ever man in such circumstances could be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no
more resist the offer than I could restrain my first rambling
designs, when my father's good counsel was lost upon me.
In a word, I told them I would go with all my heart, if
they would undertake to look after my plantation in my
absence, and would dispose of it to such as I should direct,
if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and entered
into writings or covenants to do so; and I made a formal
will, disposing of my plantation and effects, in case of my
death, making the captain of the ship that had saved my life,
as before, my universal heir, but obliging him to dispose of
my effects as I had directed in my will, one half of the
produce being to himself, and the other to be shipped to
England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my effects,
and keep up my plantation; had I used half as much pru-
dence to have looked into my own interest, and have made
a judgment of what I ought to have done and not to have
done, I had certainly never gone away from so prosperous an
undertaking, leaving all the probable views of a thriving
circumstance, and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with
all its common hazards, to say nothing of the reasons I had
to expect particular misfortunes to myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates
of my fancy rather than my reason; and accordingly, the
ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all things
done as by agreement, by my partners in the voyage, I went
on board in an evil hour, the 1st of September1, 1659V being
the same day eight year that I went from my father and
mother at Hull, in order to act the rebel to their authority,
and the fool to my own interest.
Our ship was about 120 ton burthen, carried 6 guns and
14 men, besides the master, his boy, and myself; we had
on board no large cargo of goods, except of such toys as were
fit for our trade with the negroes, such as beads, bits of glass,
11st of Sept.: In the 1st edition this date is omitted, though a space for it is
left. If the story were a literal allegory of Defoe's life, as Mr. Wright takes it
to be, there would have been no reason for the omission. Defoe would have re-
membered his own birthday. As a matter of fact, he left the space blank, intending
to return and insert a date which should fit the later story, and then forgot
to do it.
2 1659: Critics have pointed out that if Crusoe spent 28 years on the island,
either this date, or 1686, the time of his leaving the island, is a mistake. Mr.
Aitken (Romances and Narratives by Daniel Defoe, VII. xvii.) accepts the sugges-
tion that this date should be 1658, and he points, as corroborative evidence, to
Crusoe's statement (p. 182) that he was shipwrecked on his 26th birthday. But
there is equally good support for 1659 in the statement here that Crusoe set
sail from Brazil on his ill-fated voyage to Guinea "the same day eight year"
that he left Hull; and it is certain that he left Hull in 1651. We may be sure of
the accuracy of this last date because Crusoe was born in 1632, wished to go to
sea at the age of 18, but stayed at home "almost a year after this" (p. 45). We
may test the date in another way. After going to London, at the end of Sep-
tember, 1651, Crusoe makes two voyages to Guinea and on the second he is
captured by the Moors, on September 1 (pp.46, 182). The year is uncertain. It
seems hardly likely that he could pick up his captain in London, make one
voyage, and start on a second one, between October, 1651, and August, 1652; yet
this would be necessary if he were to be captured September 1, 1652. If he was
captured in 1653, the two years he remained a slave in Sallee (p. 59) before his
escape on September 19 [1655], and the four years he spent in Brazil as a planter
(p. 79), would bring him just to September, 1659, the time named in the text
for the voyage for Guinea and the shipwreck on the island. But there is one
more complication, He says on p. 340 that he "arrived in England, the 11th of
June, in the year 1687, having been thirty and five years absent." This
makes the year in which he started his second trip to Guinea from England,
1652, and therefore helps to support 1658 as the year of the shipwreck. But 1652
seems too early a date for the second voyage. Moreover, as is pointed out later,
Defoe accounts for only 27 years of Crusoe's life on the island, and the simplest
thing to assume, if one attempts to secure consistency in the text, is that the two
dates are right, that Crusoe was on the island 27 years instead of 28, and that
the "thirty and five years" is a mistake for "thirty-four" made under the influ-
ence of the 28 for 27 just above. The best thing to do is to note such discrep-
ancies and let them alone; they do not impair the effectiveness of the story.
shells, and odd trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives,
scissors, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away
to the northward upon our own coast, with design to stretch
over for the African coast, when they came about 10 or 12
degrees of northern latitude, which it seems was the manner
of their course in those days. We had very good weather,
only excessive hot, all the way upon our own coast, till we
came the height of Cape St. Augustino, from whence keep-
ing farther off at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as
if we was bound for the Isle Fernand de Noronha, holding
our course N. E. by N., and leaving those isles on the east;
in this course we past the line in about 12 days' time, and
were by our last observation in 7 degrees 22 min. northern
latitude, when a violent tornado or hurricane took us quite
out of our knowledge; it began from the southeast, came
about to the northwest, and then settled into the northeast,
from whence it blew in such a terrible manner, that for
twelve days together we could do nothing but drive, and
scudding away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and
the fury of the winds directed; and during these twelve
days, I need not say that I expected every day to be
swallowed up, nor indeed did any in the ship expect to
save their lives.
In this distress we had, besides the terror of the storm,
one of our men died of the calenture, and one man and the
boy washed overboard. About the 12th day, the weather
abating a little, the master made an observation as well as
he could, and found that he was in about 11 degrees north
latitude, but that he was 22 degrees of longitude difference
west from Cape St. Augustino; so that he found he was
gotten upon the coast of Guiana*, or the north part of
Brazil, beyond the river Amazones, toward that of the river
Oronoque, commonly called the Great River, and began to
consult with me what course he should take, for the ship was
leaky and very much disabled, and he was going directly
back to the coast of Brazil.
I was positively against that, and looking over the charts
of the sea-coast of America with him, we concluded there
was no inhabited country for us to have recourse to, till we
came within the circle of the Caribbee Islands, and therefore
resolved to stand away for Barbadoes, which, by keeping off
at sea, to avoid the indraft of the Bay or Gulf of Mexico, we
might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail;
whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to the coast
of Africa without some assistance both to our ship and to
ourselves.
With this design we changed our course and steered away
N. W. by W., in order to reach some of our English islands,
where I hoped for relief: but our voyage was otherwise
determined, for being in the latitude of 12 deg. 18 min., a
second storm came upon us, which carried us away with the
same impetuosity westward, and drove us so but of the very
way of all human commerce, that had all our lives been
saved as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being
devoured by savages than ever returning to our own country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one
of our men early in the morning cried out, "Land!" and
we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out in hopes
of seeing whereabouts in the world we were, but the ship
struck upon a sand, and in a moment her motion being so
stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner, that we
expected we should all have perished immediately, and we
were immediately driven into our close quarters to shelter us
from the very foam and sprye1 of the sea.
It is not easy for any one who has not been in the like
condition to describe or conceive the consternation of men
in such circumstances; we knew nothing where we were, or
upon what land it was we were driven, whether an island
1 sprye: spray.
or the main, whether inhabited or not inhabited; and as
the rage of the wind was still great, though rather less than
at first, we could not so much as hope to have the ship hold
many minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the winds
by a kind of miracle should turn immediately about. In a
word, we sat looking one upon another, and expecting death
every moment, and every man acting accordingly, as prepar-
ing for another world, for there was little or nothing more
for us to do in this; that which was our present comfort, and
all the comfort we had, was that, contrary to our expecta-
tion, the ship did not break yet, and that the master said
the wind began to abate.
Now though we thought that the wind did a little abate,
yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking
too fast for us to expect her getting off, we were in a
dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing to do but to
think of saving our lives as well as we could; we had a boat
at our stern just before the storm, but she was first staved
by dashing against the ship's rudder, and in the next place
she broke away, and either sunk or was driven off to sea,
so there was no hope from her; we had another boat on
board, but how to get her off into the sea was a doubtful
thing; however, there was no room to debate, for we fancied
the ship would break in pieces every minute, and some told
us she was actually broken already.
In this distress the mate of our vessel lays hold of the
boat, and with the help of the rest of the men, they got her
slung* over the ship's side, and getting all into her, let go,
and committed ourselves, being 11 in number, to God's
mercy and the wild sea; for though the storm was abated
considerably, yet the sea went dreadful high upon the shore,
and might well be called den wild zee, as the Dutch call
the sea in a storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all
saw plainly, that the sea went so high that the boat could
not live, and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to
making sail, we had none, nor, if we had, could we ha' done
anything with it: so we worked at the oar towards the land,
though with heavy hearts, like men going to execution; for
we all knew, that when the boat came nearer the shore, she
would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the
sea. However, we committed our souls to God in the most
earnest manner, and the wind driving us towards the shore,
we hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling as
well as we could towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal, we knew not; the only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation, was if we
might happen into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some
river, where by great chance we might have run our boat
in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps made
smooth water. But there was nothing of this appeared; but
as we made nearer and nearer the shore, the land looked
more frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like,
came rolling astern of us, and plainly bade us expect the
coup de grace.1 In a word, it took us with such a fury,
that it overset the boat at once; and separating us as well
from the boat as from one another, gave us not time hardly
to say, "O God!" for we were all swallowed up in a moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I
felt when I sunk into the water; for though I swam very
well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves so as
to draw breath, till that wave having driven me, or rather
carried me, a vast way on towards the shore, and having
spent itself, went back, and left me upon the land almost
dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I had so
much presence of mind as well as breath left, that seeing
lcoup de trace: the finishing stroke; originally used of the fcomparatively)
"kind blow" which put an end to the misery of one who was being tortured.
myself nearer the mainland than I expected, I got upon my
feet, and endeavored to make on towards the land as fast as I
could, before another wave should return and take me up
again. But I soon found it was impossible to avoid it;
for I saw the sea come after me as high as a great hill, and
as furious as an enemy, which I had no means or strength to
contend with; my business was to hold my breath, and raise
myself upon the water, if I could; and so by swimming to
preserve my breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore,
if possible; my greatest concern now being, that the sea, as
it would carry me a great way towards the shore when it
came on, might not carry me back again with it when it
gave back towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once
20 or 30 foot deep in its own body, and I could feel myself
carried with a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore
a very great way; but I held my breath, and assisted myself
to swim still forward with all my might. I was ready to
burst with holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising
up, so to my immediate relief I found my head and hands
shoot out above the surface of the water; and though it
was not two seconds of time that I could keep myself so,
yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage.
I was covered again with water a good while, but not so
long but I held it out; and finding the water had spent itself
and began to return, I strook forward against the return
of the waves, and felt ground again with my feet. I stood
still a few moments to recover breath and till the water
went from me, and then took to my heels and run, with
what strength I had, farther towards the shore. But neither
would this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came
pouring in after me again, and twice more I was lifted up
by the waves and carried forwards as before, the shore being
very flat.
The last time of these two had well near been fatal
to me, for the sea having hurried me along, as before, landed
me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of rock, and that
with such force as it left me senseless, and indeed helpless,
as to my own deliverance; for the blow taking my side and
breast, beat the breath as it were quite out of my body; and
had it returned again immediately, I must have been
strangled in the water; but I recovered a little before the
return of the waves, and seeing I should be covered again
with the water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of the
rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, till the wave
went back; now as the waves were not so high as at first,
being nearer land, I held my hold till the wave abated, and
then fetched another run, which brought me so near the
shore, that the next wave, though it went over me, yet did
not so swallow me up as to carry me away, and the next
run I took, I got to the mainland, where, to my great
comfort, I clambered up the clifts of the shore, and sat me
down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite out of
the reach of the water.
I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look
up and thank God that my life was saved in a case wherein
there was some minutes before scarce any room to hope. I
believe it is impossible to express to the life what the
ecstasies and transports of the soul are, when it is so saved,
as I may say, out of the very grave; and I do not wonder
now at that custom, viz., that when a malefactor, who has
the halter about his neck, is tied up, and just going to be
turned off, and has a reprieve brought to him: I say, I do
not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to let him
blood that very moment they tell him of it, that the surprise
may not drive the animal spirits1 from the heart, and over-
whelm him:
For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.
1 animal spirits: "nerve, physical or'animal'courage,"—N. E. D. Medieval
medical science distinguished three kinds of "spirits," the animal, vital, and natural.
The animal spirit had its seat in the brain; it was the principle of sensation and
voluntary motion." By Defoe's time the phrase had become less specific.
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and
my whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in the contempla-
tion of my deliverance, making a thousand gestures and
motions which I cannot describe, reflecting upon all my
comrades that were drowned, and that there should not
be one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I never saw
them afterwards, or any sign of them, except three of their
hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows.1
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach
and froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly see it, it
lay so far off, and considered, Lord! how was it possible
I could get on shore?
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part
of my condition, I began to look round me to see what
kind of place I was in, and what was next to be done, and
I soon found my comforts abate, and that in a word I
had a dreadful deliverance: for I was wet, had no clothes
to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink to comfort
me, neither did I see any prospect before me, but that of
perishing with hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts;
and that which was particularly afflicting to me was, that
I had no weapon either to hunt and kill any creature for
my sustenance, or to defend myself against any other crea-
ture that might desire to kill me for theirs: in a word, I
had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a
little tobacco in a box; this was all my provision, and this
threw me into terrible agonies of mind, that for a while
I run about like a madman; night coming upon me, I
began with a heavy heart to consider what would be my
lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that country, seeing
at night they always come abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time,
was, to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, but thorny,
which grew near me, and where I resolved to set all night,
1 fellows: mates.
and consider the next day what death I should die, for as
yet I saw no prospect of life; I walked about a furlong
from the shore, to see if I could find any fresh water to
drink, which I did, to my great joy; and having drank, and
put a little tobacco in my mouth to prevent hunger, I went
to the tree, and getting up into it, endeavored to place myself
so, as that if I should sleep I might not fall: and having cut
me a short stick, like a truncheon, for my defence, I took
up my lodging, and having been excessively fatigued, I fell
fast asleep, and slept as comfortably as, I believe, few could
have done in my condition, and found myself the most
refreshed with it that I think I ever was on such an occasion.
When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear,
and the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell
as before: but that which surprised me most, was, that the
ship was lifted off in the night from the sand where she
lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost
as far as the rock which I first mentioned, where I had
been so bruised by the dashing me against it: this being
within about a mile from the shore where I was, and the ship
seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that,
at least, I might save some necessary things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I
looked about me again, and the first thing I found was the
boat, which lay, as the wind and the sea had tossed her up
upon the land, about two miles on my right hand. I walked
as far as I could upon the shore to have got to her, but
found a neck or inlet of water between me and the boat,
which was about half a mile broad, so I came back for the
present, being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I
hoped to find something for my present subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and the
tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within a quarter
of a mile of the ship: and here I found a fresh renewing
of my grief, for I saw evidently, that if we had kept on
board, we had been all safe, that is to say, we had all got
safe on shore, and I had not been so miserable as to be left
entirely destitute of all comfort and company, as I now was;
this forced tears from my eyes again, but as there was little
relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship; so
I pulled off my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity,
and took the water; but when I came to the ship, my diffi-
culty was still greater to know how to get on board, for as
she lay aground, and high out of the water, there was nothing
within my reach to lay hold of; I swam round her twice,
and the second time I spied a small piece of a rope, which I
wondered I did not see at first, hang down by the fore-
chains so low, as that with great difficulty I got hold of it,
and by the help of that rope got up into the forecastle of
the ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged,1 and had
a great deal of water in her hold, but that she lay so on the
side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth, that her stern
lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low almost to the
water; by this means all her quarter was free, and all that
was in that part was dry; for you may be sure my first work
was to search and to see what was spoiled and what was free;
and first I found that all the ship's provisions were dry
and untouched by the water, and being very well disposed
to eat, I went to the bread-room and filled my pockets with
biscuit,2 and eat3 it as I went about other things, for I
had no time to lose; I also found some rum in the great
cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which I had
indeed need enough of to spirit me for what was before
me: now I wanted nothing but a boat to furnish myself
with many things which I foresaw would be very necessary
to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not
1 bulged: i.e., bilged, a nautical term used when a ship has a fracture in her
bilge,—the flat part of the bottom,—which causes a leak.
*biscuit: i. e., hard water-crackers, like hardtack.
8 eat: This old form of the past tense of eat—pronounced el,—which Defoe
constantly uses, is now obsolete except in vulgar use.
to be had, and this extremity roused my application; we had
several spare yards, and two or three large spars of wood,
and a spare topmast or two in the ship; I resolved to fall
to work with these, and flung as many of them overboard
as I could manage for their weight, tying every one with a
rope, that they might not drive away; when this was done,
I went down the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied
four of them fast together at both ends as well as I could,
in the form of a raft, and laying two or three short pieces
of plank upon them crossways, I found I could walk upon
it very well, but that it was not able to bear any great
weight, the pieces being too light; so I went to work, and
with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare topmast into three
lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great deal of
labor and pains; but hope of furnishing myself with neces-
saries encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been
able to have done upon another occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable
weight; my next care was what to load it with, and how to
preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea; but I
was not long considering this; I first laid all the plank or
boards upon it that I could get, and having considered well
what I most wanted, I first got three of the seamen's chests,
which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered them
down upon my raft; the first of these I filled with provision,
viz., bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried
goat's flesh, which we lived much upon, and a little
remainder of European corn1 which had been laid by for
some fowls which we brought to sea with us, but the fowls
were killed; there had been some barley and wheat together,
but, to my great disappointment, I found afterwards that
the rats had eaten or spoiled it all; as for liquors, I found
several cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which
were some cordial waters, and in all about five or six gallons
1 corn: Not Indian corn, but grain, such as barley or oats.
of rack1; these I stowed by themselves, there being no need
to put them into the chest, nor no room for them. While I
was doing this, I found the tide began to flow, though very
calm, and I had the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and
waistcoat, which I had left on shore upon the sand, swim
away; as for my breeches, which were only linen, and open
kneed, I swam on board in them, and my stockings: how-
ever, this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I
found enough, but took no more than I wanted for present
use, for I had other things which my eye was more upon,
as, first, tools to work with on shore; and it was after long
searching that I found out the carpenter's chest, which was
indeed a very useful prize to me, and much more valuable
than a ship loading of gold would have been at that time;
I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was, without los-
ing time to look into it, for I knew in general what it
contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms; there
were two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and
two pistols; these I secured first, with some powder-horns,
and a small bag of shot, and two old rusty swords; I knew
there were three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not
where our gunner had stowed them, but with much search
I found them, two of them dry and good, the third had
taken water; those two I got to my raft with the arms, and
now I thought myself pretty well freighted, and began to
think how I should get to shore with them, having neither
sail, oar, or rudder, and the least capful of wind would have
overset all my navigation.
I had three encouragements. 1. A smooth, calm sea.
2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore. 3. What
little wind there was blew me towards the land. And thus,
having found two or three broken oars belonging to the
1 rack: arrack; "a name applied in eastern countries to any spirituous liquor
of native manufacture; especially, that distilled from the fermented sap of the
coco-palm, or from rice and sugar, fermented with the cocoa-nut juice."—N. E. D.
boat, and besides the tools which were in the chest, I found
two saws, an axe, and a hammer, and with this cargo I put
to sea: for a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well,
only that I found it drive a little distant from the place
where I had landed before, by which I perceived that there
was some indraft of the water, and consequently I hoped
to find some creek or river there, which I might make use
of as a port to get to land with my cargo.
As I imagined, so it was; there appeared before me a
little opening of the land, and I found a strong current
of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as well as I could
to keep in the middle of the stream: but here I had like to
have suffered a second shipwreck, which, if I had, I think
verily would have broke my heart, for knowing nothing of
the coast, my raft run aground at one end of it upon
a shoal, and not being aground at the other end, it wanted
but a little that all my cargo had slipped off towards that
end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water: I did my
utmost, by setting my back against the chests, to keep them
in their places, but could not thrust off the raft with all
my strength, neither durst I stir from the posture I was in,
but holding up the chests with all my might, stood in that
manner near half an hour, in which time the rising of the
water brought me a little more upon a level, and, a little
after, the water still rising, my raft floated again, and I
thrust her off with the oar I had into the channel, and then
driving up higher, I at length found myself in the mouth
of a little river, with land on both sides, and a strong current
or tide running up; I looked on both sides for a proper
place to get to shore, for I was not willing to be driven
too high up the river, hoping in time to see some ship at sea,
and therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast as
I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the
creek, to which with great pain and difficulty I guided my
raft, and at last got so near, as that, reaching ground with
my oar, I could thrust her directly in; but here I had like
to have dipt all my cargo in the sea again; for that shore
lying pretty steep, that is to say, sloping, there was no place
to land, but where one end of my float, if it run on shore,
would lie so high, and the other sink lower, as before, that
it would endanger my cargo again; all that I could do, was
to wait till the tide was at the^ highest, keeping the raft
with my oar like an anchor to hold the side of it fast to
the shore, near a flat piece of ground, which I expected the
water would flow over; and so it did: as soon as I found
water enough, for my raft drew about a foot of* water, I
thrust her on upon that flat piece of ground, and there
fastened or moored her by sticking my two broken oars into
the ground, one on one side near one end, and one on the
other side near the other end; and thus I lay till the water
ebbed away, and left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a
proper place for my habitation, and where to stow my goods
to secure them from whatever might happen; where I was I
yet knew not, whether on the continent, or on an island,
whether inhabited or not inhabited, whether in danger of
wild beasts or not: there was a hill not above a mile from
me, which rose up very steep and high, and which seemed to
overtop some other hills which lay as in a ridge from it
northward; I took out one of the fowling-pieces, and one
of the pistols, and a horn of powder, and thus armed, I
travelled for discovery up to the top of that hill, where,
after I had with great labor and difficulty got to the top,
I saw my fate to my great affliction, viz., that I was in an
island environed every way with the sea, no land to be seen,
except some rocks which lay a great way off, and two small
islands less than this, which lay about three leagues to the
west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as
I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild
beasts, of whom, however, I saw none, yet I saw abundance
of fowls, but knew not their kinds, neither when I killed
them could I tell what was fit for food, and what not; at
my coming back, I shot at a great bird which I saw sitting
upon a tree on the side of a great wood; I believe it was
the first gun that had been fired there since the creation of
the world; I had no sooner fired, but from all the parts of
the wood there arose an innumerable number of fowls of
many sorts, making a confused screaming, and crying every
one according to his usual note; but not one of them of any
kind that I knew: as for the creature I killed, I took it to
be a kind of a hawk, its color and beak resembling it, but
had no talons or claws more than common; its flesh was
carrion, and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft,
and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took
me up the rest of that day, and what to do with myself at
night I knew not, nor indeed where to rest; for I was afraid
to lie down on the ground, not knowing but some wild beast
might devour me, though, as I afterwards found, there was
really no need for those fears.
However, as well as I could, I barricadoed myself round
with the chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and
made a kind of a hut for that night's lodging; as for food,
I yet saw not which way to supply myself, except that I had
seen two or three creatures like hares run out of the wood
where I shot the fowl.
I now began to consider, that I might yet get a great
many things out of the ship which would be useful to me,
and particularly some of the rigging and sails, and such
other things as might come to land, and I resolved to make
another voyage on board the vessel, if possible; and as I
knew that the first storm that blew must necessarily break
her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things apart, till
I got everything out of the ship that I could get; then I
called a council, that is to say, in my thoughts, whether I
should take back the raft, but this appeared impracticable;
so I resolved to go as before, when the tide was down, and
I did so, only that I stripped before I went from my hut,
having nothing on but a chequered shirt and a pair of linen
drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second
raft, and having had experience of the first, I neither made
this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought
away several things very useful to-me; as, first, in the car-
penter's stores I found two or three bags full of nails and
spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, and,
above all, that most useful thing called a grindstone; all
these I secured together, with several things belonging to
the gunner, particularly two or three iron crows, and two
barrels of musket bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling-
piece, with some small quantity of powder more; a large
bag full of small-shot, and a great roll of sheet lead: but
this last was so heavy, I could not hoise it up to get it over
the ship's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that
I could find, and a spare fore topsail, a hammock, and some
bedding; and with this I loaded my second raft, and brought
them all safe on shore, to my very great comfort.
I was under some apprehensions during my absence from
the land, that at least my provisions might be devoured on
shore; but when I came back, I found no sign of any visitor,
only there sat a creature like a wild cat upon one of the
chests, which, when I came towards it, ran away a little
distance, and then stood still; she sat very composed and
unconcerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had a
mind to be acquainted with me: I presented my gun at her,
but as she did not understand it, she was perfectly uncon-
cerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away; upon which I
tossed her a bit of biscuit, though, by the way, I was not
very free of it, for my store was not great: however, I
spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled of it,
and ate it, and looked (as pleased) for more, but I thanked
her, and could spare no more; so she marched off.
Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was fain1
to open the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels,
for they were too heavy, being large casks, I went to work
to make me a little tent with the sail and some poles which
I cut for that purpose, and into this tent I brought every-
thing that I knew would spoil, either with rain or sun, and
I piled all the empty chests and casks up in a circle round
the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from
man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent with some boards within, and an empty chest set up an
end without, and spreading one of the beds upon the ground,
laying my two pistols just at my head, and my gun at length2
by me, I went to bed for the first time, and slept very quietly
all night, for I was very weary and heavy, for the night
before I had slept little, and had labored very hard all
day, as well to fetch all those things from the ship, as to
get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever
were* laid up, I believe, for one man, but I was not satis-
fied still; for while the ship sat upright in that posture, I
thought I ought to get everything out of her that I could; so
every day at low water I went on board, and brought away
something or other; but, particularly, the third time I went,
I brought away as much of the rigging as I could, as also
all the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a piece
of spare canvas, which was to mend the sails upon occasion,
the* barrel of wet gunpowder: in a word, I brought away
all the sails first and last, only that I was fain to cut them
1 fain: compelled.
2 at length: lengthwise.
in pieces, and bring as much at a time as I could; for they
were no more useful to be sails, but as mere canvas only.
But that which comforted me more still was, that at last
of all, after I had made five or six such voyages as these, and
thought I had nothing more to expect from the ship that
was worth my meddling with; I say, after all this, I found
a great hogshead of bread and three large runlets1 of rum
or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour;
this was surprising to me, because I had given over expecting
any more provisions, except what was spoilt by the water:
I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapt it up
parcel by parcel in pieces of the sails, which I cut out; and
in a word, I got all this safe on shore also.
The next day I made another voyage; and now having
plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand
out, I began with the cables; and cutting the great cable
into pieces such as I could move, I got two cables and a
hawser on shore, with all the iron-work I could get; and
having cut down the sprit-sail yard, and the mizzen yard, and
everything I could to make a large raft, I loaded it with all
those heavy goods, and came away: but my good luck began
now to leave me; for this raft was so unwieldy, and so over-
loaden, that after I was entered the little cove, where I had
landed the rest of my goods, not being able to guide it so
handily as I did the other, it overset, and threw me and
all my cargo into the water; as for myself, it was no great
harm, for I was near the-shore; but as to my cargo, it was
great part of it lost, especially the iron, which I expected
would have been of great use to me: however, when the
tide was out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and
some of the iron, though with infinite labor; for I was fain
to dip for it into the water, a work which fatigued me very
much: after this I went every day on board, and brought
away what I could get.
i runlets: casks.
I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship; in which time I had brought
away all that one pair of hands could well be supposed
capable to bring, though I believe verily, had the calm
weather held, I should have brought away the whole ship,
piece by piece: but preparing the 12th time to go on board,
I found the wind begin to rise; however, at low water I
went on board, and though I thought I had rummaged
the cabin so effectually as that nothing more could be found,
yet I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one of which
I found two or three razors, and one pair of large scissors,
with some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks; in
another I found about thirty-six pounds value in money,
some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some
gold, some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. "O drug!"
said I, aloud, "what art thou good for? Thou art not
worth to me, no, not the taking off of the ground; one of
those knives is worth all this heap; I have no manner of use
for thee; even remain where thou art, and go to the bottom
as a creature whose life is not worth saving." However,
upon second thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all this
in a piece of canvas, I began to think of making another
raft, but while I was preparing this, I found the sky over-
cast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an
hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore; it presently occurred
to me that it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with the
wind off shore, and that it was my business to be gone
before the tide of flood began, otherwise I might not be able
to reach the shore at all: accordingly I let myself down into
the water, and swam cross the channel which lay between
the ship and the sands, and even that with difficulty enough,
partly with the weight of the things I had about me, and
partly the roughness of the water, for the wind rose very
hastily, and before it was quite high water it blew a storm.
But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay
with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew very
hard all that night, and in the morning, when I looked out,
behold, no more ship was to be seen; I was a little surprised,
but recovered myself with this satisfactory reflection, viz.,
that I had lost no time, nor abated no diligence, to get
everything out of her that could be useful to me, and that
indeed there was little left in her that I was able to bring
away, if I had had more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of
anything out of her, except what might drive on shore from
her wreck, as indeed divers pieces of her afterwards did;
but those things were of small use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing
myself against either savages, if any should appear, or wild
beasts, if any were in the island; and I had many thoughts
of the method how to do this, and what kind of dwelling
to make, whether I should make me a cave in the earth, or
a tent upon the earth: and, in short, I resolved upon both,
the manner and description of which it may not be improper
to give an account of.
I soon found the place I was in was not for my settle-
ment, particularly because it was upon a low moorish ground
near the sea, and I believed would not be wholesome, and
more particularly because there was no fresh water near it,
so I resolved to find a more healthy and more convenient
spot of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation which I found
would be proper for me: 1st, health and fresh water I just
now mentioned; 2dly, shelter from the heat of the sun;
3rdly, security from ravenous creatures, whether men or
beasts; 4thly, a view to the sea, that if God sent any ship
in sight, I might not lose any advantage for my deliverance,
of which I was not willing to banish all my expectation yet.
In search of a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards this
little plain was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could
come down upon me from the top: on the side of this rock
there was a hollow place worn a little way in like the
entrance or door of a cave, but there was not really any
cave or way into the rock at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place,
I resolved to pitch my tent: this plain was not above an hun-
dred yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay like a
green before my door, and at the end of it descended irregu-
larly every way down into the low grounds by the seaside.
It was on the N. N. W. side of the hill, so that I was
sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a W. and
by S. sun or thereabouts, which in those countries is near
the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before the
hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-
diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter
from its beginning and ending.
In this half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the ground till they stood very firm like
piles, the biggest end being out of the ground about five
foot and a half, and sharpened on the top: the two rows
did not stand above six inches from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in
the ship, and I laid them in rows one upon another, within
the circle, between these two rows of stakes, up to the top,
placing other stakes in the inside, leaning against them,
about two foot and a half high, like a spur to a post; and
this fence was so strong that neither man or beast could
get into it or over it: this cost me a great deal of time and
labor, especially to cut the piles -in the woods, bring them
to the place, and drive them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door,
but by a short ladder to go over the top, which ladder, when
I was in, I lifted over after me, and so I was completely
fenced in, and fortified, as I thought, from all the world,
and consequently slept secure in the night, which otherwise I
could not have done, though, as it appeared afterward, there
was no need of all this caution from the enemies that I
apprehended danger from.
Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labor, I carried
all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of
which you have the account above, and I made me a large
tent, which, to preserve me from the rains, that in one part
of the year are very violent there, I made double, viz., one
smaller tent within, and one larger tent above it, and covered
the uppermost with a large tarpaulin which I had saved
among the sails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I
had brought on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed
a very good one, and belonged to the mate of the ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every-
thing that would spoil by the wet, and having thus enclosed
all my goods, I made up the entrance, which till now I had
left open, and so passed and repassed, as I said, by a short
ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way into
the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug
down out through my tent, I laid them up within my fence
in the nature of a terrace, that so it raised the ground
within about a foot and a half; and thus I made me a cave
just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar to my
house.
It cost me much labor, and many days, before all these
things were brought to perfection, and therefore I must go
back to some other things which took up some of my thoughts.
At the same time it happened, after I had laid my scheme
for the setting up my tent and making the cave, that a storm
of rain falling from a thick dark cloud, a sudden flash of
lightning happened, and after that a great clap of thunder,
as is naturally the effect of it1; I was not so much surprised
with the lightning as I was with a thought which darted
into my mind as swift as the lightning itself: O my powder!
My very heart sunk within me, when I thought that at one
blast all my powder might be destroyed, on which, not my
defence only, but the providing me food, as I thought,
entirely depended; I was nothing near so anxious about my
own danger, though had the powder took fire, I had never
known who had hurt me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that after the
storm was over, I laid aside all my works, my building and
fortifying, and applied myself to make bags and boxes to
separate the powder, and keep it a little and a little in a
parcel, in hope that, whatever might come, it might not all
take fire at once, and to keep it so apart that it should not
be possible to make one part fire another: I finished this
work in about a fortnight, and I think my powder, which in
all was about 240 1. weight, was divided in not less than a
hundred parcels; as to the barrel that had been wet, I did not
apprehend any danger from that, so I placed it in my new
cave, which in my fancy I called my kitchen, and the rest
I hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no
wet might come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out
once at least every day with my gun, as well to divert
myself, as to see if I could kill anything fit for food, and
as near as I could, to acquaint myself with what the island
produced. The first time I went out I presently discovered
that there were goats in the island, which was a great
satisfaction to me; but then it was attended with this mis-
fortune to me, viz., that they were so shy, so subtile, and
so swift of foot, that it was the difficultest thing in the
world to come at them: but I was not discouraged at this,
1as is naturally the effect: which follows naturally after.
not doubting but I might now and then shoot one, as it
soon happened; for after I had found their haunts a little,
I laid wait in this manner for them: I observed if they saw
me in the valleys, though they were upon the rocks, they
would run away as in a terrible fright; but if they were
feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took
no notice of me; from whence I concluded, that by the
position of their optics, their sight was so directed down-
ward, that they did not readily see objects that were above
them; so afterward I took this method, I always climbed
the rocks first to get above them, and then had frequently
a fair mark.
The first shot I made among these creatures, I killed
a she goat which had a little kid by her which she gave
suck to, which grieved me heartily; but when the old one
fell, the kid stood stock still by her till I came and took
her up, and not only so, but when I carried the old one with
me upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to my
enclosure, upon which, I laid down the dam, and took the
kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to
have bred it up tame, but it would not eat, so I was forced
to kill it and eat it myself; these two supplied me with flesh
a great while, for I eat sparingly, and saved my provisions,
(my bread especially,) as much as possibly I could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely
necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to
burn; and what I did for that, as also how I enlarged my
cave, and what conveniences I made, I shall give a full
account of in its place: but I must first give some little
account of myself, and of my thoughts about living, which
it may well be supposed were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition, for as I was
not cast away upon that island without being driven, as is
said, by a violent storm quite out of the course of our
intended voyage, and a great way, viz., some hundreds of
leagues, out of the ordinary course of the trade of mankind,
I had great reason to consider it as a determination of
Heaven, that in this desolate place, and in this desolate man-
ner, I should end my life; the tears would run plentifully
down my face when I made these reflections, and sometimes
I would expostulate with myself why Providence should thus
completely ruin its creatures, and render them so absolutely
miserable, so without help abandoned, so entirely depressed,
that it could hardly be rational to be thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to check
these thoughts, and to reprove me; and particularly one day
walking with my gun in my hand by the seaside, I was very
pensive upon the subject of my present condition, when
Reason, as it were, expostulated with me t' other way, thus:
"Well, you are in a desolate condition, 't is true, but pray
remember, where are the rest of you? Did not you come
eleven of you into the boat? Where are the ten? Why
were not they saved and you lost? Why were you singled
out? Is it better to be here or there?" And then I pointed
to the sea. All evils are to be considered with the good that
is in them, and with what worse attends them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished
for my subsistence, and what would have been my case if
it had not happened (which was an hundred thousand to
one) that the ship floated from the place where she first
struck, and was driven so near to the shore that I had time
to get all these things out of her: what would have been my
case, if I had been to have lived1 in the condition in which I
at first came on shore, without necessaries of life, or neces-
saries to supply and procure them? "Particularly," said I
aloud (though to myself), "what should I have done without
a gun, without ammunition, without any tools to make any-
thing, or to work with, without clothes, bedding, a tent, or
any manner of covering?" and that now I had all these to
1 if I had been to have lived: i.e., if I had been compelled to live.
a sufficient quantity, and was in a fair way to provide myself
in such a manner as to live without my gun when my ammu-
nition was spent; so that I had a tolerable view of subsisting
without any want as long as I lived; for I considered from
the beginning how I would provide for the accidents that
might happen, and for the time that was to come, even not
only after my ammunition should be spent, but even after
my health or strength should decay.
I confess I had not entertained any notion of my ammuni-
tion being destroyed at one blast, I mean, my powtier being
blown up by lightning, and this made the thoughts of it so
surprising to me, when it lightened and thundered, as I
observed just now.
And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of a
scene of silent life, such perhaps as was never heard of in
the world before, I shall take it from its beginning, and
continue it in its order. It was, by my account, the 30th
of Sept. when, in the manner as above said, I first set foot
upon this horrid island, when the sun, being to us in its
autumnal equinox, was almost just over my head: for I reck-
oned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of 9 degrees
22 minutes north of the line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came
into my thoughts, that I should lose my reckoning of time
for want of books and pen and ink, and should even forget
the Sabbath days from the working days; but to prevent this
I cut it with my knife upon a large post, in capital letters,
and making it into a great cross, I set it up on the shore
where I first landed, viz., "I came on shore here on the
30th of Sept., 1659." Upon the sides of this square post
I cut every day a notch with my knife, and every seventh
notch was as long again as jhe rest, and every first
day of the month as long again as that long one, and thus
I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly reckon-
ing of time.
In the next place we are to observe, that among the
many things which I brought out of the ship in the several
voyages which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I got
several things of less value, but not aW less useful to me,
which I omitted setting down before; as, in particular, pens,
ink, and paper, several parcels in the captain's, mate's, gun-
ner's, and carpenter's keeping, three or four compasses, some
mathematical instruments, dials, perspectives1, charts, and
books of navigation, all which I huddled together, whether
I might "want them or no; also I found three very good
Bibles which came to me in my cargo from England, and
which I had packed up among my things; some Portuguese
books also, and among them two or three Popish2 prayer-
books, and several other books, all which I carefully secured.
And I must not forget that we had in the ship a dog and
two cats, of whose eminent history I may have occasion to
say something in its place; for I carried both the cats with
me, and as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship of him-
self and swam on shore to me the day after I went on shore
with my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many
years; I wanted nothing3 that he could fetch me, nor any
company that he could make up to me; I only wanted to
have him talk to me, but that would not do: as I observed
before, I found pen, ink, and paper, and I husbanded them
to the utmost, and I shall show that while my ink lasted
I kept things very exact, but after that was gone I could not,
for I could not make any ink by any means that I could
devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together, and of
these, this of ink was one, as also spade, pick-axe, and shovel,
to dig or remove the earfh, needles, pins, and thread; as
1 perspectives: spy-glasses.
2 Popish: Defoe's consistent use of this adjective and of the noun "Papist"
illustrates the scorn of and bitterness of feeling toward Catholics in Protestant
England in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.
3 / wanted nothing: I lacked nothing; i.e., he brought everything.
for linen, I soon learned to want1 that without much
difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily,
and it was near a whole year before I had entirely finished
my little pale, or surrounded habitation: the piles or stakes,
which were as heavy as I could well lift, were a long time
in cutting and preparing in the woods, and more by far in
bringing home, so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting
and bringing home one of those posts, and a third day in
driving it into the ground; for which purpose I got a heavy
piece of wood at first, but at last bethought myself of one
of the iron crows, which, however, though I found it, yet
it made driving those posts or piles very laborious and
tedious work.
But what need I ha' been concerned at the tediousness of
anything I had to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in?
nor had I any other employment, if that had been over,
at least that I could foresee, except the ranging the island
to seek for food, which I did more or less every day.
I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the
circumstance I was reduced to, and I drew up the state of
my affairs in writing, not so much to leave them to any that
were to come after me, for I was like to have but few heirs,
as to deliver my thoughts from daily poring upon them, and
afflicting my mind; and as my reason began now to master
my despondency, I began to comfort myself as well as I
could, and to set the good against the evil, that I might
have something to distinguish my case from worse, and I
stated it very impartially, like debtor and creditor, the com-
forts I enjoyed against the miseries I suffered, thus:
Evil. Good.
I am cast upon a horrible But I am alive, and not
desolate island, void of all drowned as all my ship's
hope of recovery. company was.
1 learned to want: learned to be without and do without.
110
Robinson Crusoe
I am singled out and
separated, as it were, from all
the world to be miserable.
I am divided from man-
kind, a solitaire, one ban-
ished from human society.
I have not^ clothes to
cover me.
I am without any defence
or means to resist any vio-
lence of man or beast.
I have no soul to speak
to, or relieve me.
But I am singled out, too,
from all the ship's crew to be
spared from death; and He
that miraculously saved me
from death, can deliver me
from this condition.
But I am not starved and
perishing on a barren place,
affording no sustenance.
But I am in a hot cli-
mate, where if I had clothes
I could hardly wear them.
But I am cast on an
island, where I see no wild
beasts to hurt me, as I saw
on the coast of Africa: and
what if I had been ship-
wrecked there?
But God wonderfully
sent the ship in near enough
to the shore, that I have got-
ten out so many necessary
things as will either supply
my wants, or enable me to
supply myself, even as long
as I live.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that
there was scarce any condition in the world so miserable,
but there was something negative or something positive to
be thankful for in it; and let this stand as a direction from
the experience of the most miserable of all conditions in this
world, that we may always find in it something to comfort
ourselves from, and to set in the description of good and
evil, on the credit side of the account.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condi-
tion, and given over looking out to sea, to see if I could
spy a ship; I say, giving over these things, I began to apply
myself to accommodate1 my way of living, and to make
things as easy to me as I could.
I have already described my habitation, which was a
tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale
of posts and cables, but I might now rather call it a wall,
for I raised a kind of wall up against it of turfs, about two
foot thick on the outside, and after some time, I think it
was a year and half, I raised rafters from it leaning to
the rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees,
and such things as I could get to keep out the rain, which
I found at some times of the year very violent.
I have already observed how I brought all my goods into
this pale, and into the cave which I had made behind me:
but I must observe, too, that at first this was a confused
heap of goods, which as they lay in no order, so they took
up all my place; I had no room to turn myself; so I set
myself to enlarge my cave and works2 farther into the earth,
for it was a loose sandy rock, which yielded easily to the
labor I bestowed on it; and so, when I found I was pretty
safe as to beasts of prey I worked sideways to the right
hand into the rock, and then turning to the right again,
worked quite out, and made me a door to come out on the
outside of my pale or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were a
back way to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me
room to stow my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary
things as I found I most wanted, as particularly a chair and
a table; for without these I was not able to enjoy the few
comforts I had in the world; I could not write, or eat, or
do several things with so much pleasure without a table.
1 accommodate: adjust, make comfortable.
2 works: Cf. "earthworks."
So I went to work; and here I must needs observe, that
as reason is the substance and original of the mathematics,
so by stating and squaring everything by reason, and by
making the most rational judgment of things, every man
may be in time master of every mechanic art. I had never
handled a tool in my life, and yet in time, by labor, applica-
tion, and contrivance, I found at last that I wanted nothing
but I could have made it, especially if I had had tools;
however, I made abundance of things, even without tools,
and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet,
which perhaps were never made that way before, and that
with infinite labor: for example, if I wanted a board, I
had no other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge
before me, and hew it flat on either side with my axe,
till I had brought it to be thin as a plank, and then dub
it smooth with my adze. It is true, by this method I
could make but one board out of a whole tree, but this
I had no remedy for but patience, any more than I had
for the prodigious deal of time and labor which it took
me up to make a plank or board: but my time or labor
was little worth, and so it was as well employed one way
as another.
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed
above, in the first place, and this I did out of the short
pieces of boards that I brought on my raft from the ship:
but when I had wrought out some boards, as above, I made
large shelves of the breadth of a foot and a half one over
another, all along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools,
nails, and iron-work, and in a word, to separate everything
at large in their places, that I might come easily* at them;
I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my guns
and all things that would hang up.
So that had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a
general magazine of all necessary things, and I had every-
thing so ready at my hand, that it was a great pleasure
to me to see all my goods in such order, and especially to
find my stock of all necessaries so great.
And now it was when I began to keep a journal of every
day's employment, for indeed at first I was in too much
hurry, and not only hurry as to labor, but in too much dis-
composure of mind, and my journal would ha' been full
of many dull things: for example, I must have said thus:
Sept. the 30th.—After I got to shore and had escaped
drowning, instead of being thankful to God for my deliv-
erance, having first vomited with the great quantity of salt
water which was gotten into my stomach, and recovering
myself a little, I ran about the shore, wringing my hands
and beating my head and face, exclaiming at my misery, and
crying out I was undone, undone, till, tired and faint, I was
forced to lie down on the ground to repose, but durst not
sleep for fear of being devoured.
Some days after this, and after I had been on board the
ship, and got all that I could out of her, yet I could not for-
bear getting up to the top of a little mountain and looking out
to sea in hopes of seeing a ship, then fancy at a vast distance
I spied a sail, please myself with the hopes of it, and then,
after looking steadily till I was almost blind, lose it quite,
and sit down and weep like a child, and thus increase my
misery by my folly.
But having gotten over these things in some measure, and
having settled my household stuff and habitation, made me a
table and a chair, and all as handsome about me as I could,
I began to keep my journal, of which I shall here give you
the copy (though in it will be told all these particulars over
again) as long as it lasted, for having no more ink, I was
forced to leave it off.
THE JOURNAL.
September 30, 1659.1—I, poor miserable Robinson Cru-
soe, being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm in the offing,
1 September 30,1659: Cf. note p. 82.
came on shore on this dismal unfortunate island, which I
called "The Island of Despair," all the rest of the ship's
company being drowned, and myself almost dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself at
the dismal circumstances I was brought to, viz., I had neither
food, house, clothes, weapon, or place to fly to, and in despair
of any relief, saw nothing but death before me, either that
I should be devoured by wild beasts, murthered by savages,
i or starved to death for want of food. At the approach of
night, I slept in a tree for fear of wild creatures, but slept
soundly, though it rained all night.
October 1.—In the morning I saw to my great surprise
the ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven on
shore again much nearer the island, which, as it was some
comfort on one hand (for seeing her sit upright, and not
broken to pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get
on board, and get some food and necessaries out of her for
my relief), so on the other hand, it renewed my grief at the
loss of my comrades, who I imagined, if we had all stayed
on board, might have saved the ship, or at least that they
would not have been all drowned as they were; and that had
the men been saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat
out of the ruins of the ship, to have carried us to some
other part of the world. I spent great part of this day-
in perplexing myself on these things; but at length seeing
the ship almost dry, I went upon the sand as near as I
could, and then swam on board; this day also it continued
raining, though with no wind at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th.—All these days
entirely spent in many several voyages to get all I could
out of the ship, which I brought on shore, every tide of
flood, upon rafts. . Much rain also in these days, though
with some intervals of fair weather: but, it seems, this was
the rainy season.
Oct. 20.—I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got
upon it, but being in shoal water, and the things being chiefly
heavy, I recovered many of them when the tide was out.
Oct. 25.1—It rained all night and all day, with some
gusts of wind, during which time the ship broke in pieces,
the wind blowing a little harder than before, and was no
more to be seen, except the wreck of her, and that only at
low water. I spent this day in covering and securing the
goods which I had saved, that the rain might not spoil them.
Oct. 26.—I walked about the shore almost all day to
find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly concerned to
secure myself from an attack in the night, either from wild
beasts or men. Towards night I fixed upon a proper place
under a rock, and marked out a semicircle for my encamp-
ment, which I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall,
or fortification, made of double piles, lined within with
cables, and without with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th I worked very hard in carry-
ing all my goods to my new habitation, though some part
of the time it rained exceeding hard.
The 31st in the morning I went out into the island with
my gun to see1 for some food, and discover the country,
when I killed a she goat, and her kid followed me home,
which I afterwards killed also, because it would not feed.
November 1.—I set up my tent under a rock, and lay
there for the first night, making it as large as I could with
stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 2.—I set up all my chests and boards, and the
pieces of timber which made my rafts, and with them formed
a fence round me, a little within the place I had marked
out for my fortification.
Nov. 3.—I went out with my gun and killed two fowls
like ducks, which were very good food. In the afternoon
went to work to make me a table.
1Oct. 25: His first account of his trips to the wreck indicates that the ship
broke up on about the 14th of October; cf. p. 100.
1 to see for some food: see = look.
Nov. 4.—This morning I began to order my times of
work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time
of diversion; viz., every morning I walked out with my
gun for two or three hours if it did not rain, then employed
myself to work till about eleven o'clock; then eat what I
had to live on, and from twelve to two I lay down to sleep,
the weather being excessive hot, and then in the evening to-
work again: the working part of this day and of the next
were wholly employed in making my table, for I was yet
but a very sorry workman, though time and necessity made
me a complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe it
would do any one else.
Nov. 5.—This day went abroad with my gun and my
dog, and killed a wild cat, her skin pretty soft but her flesh
good for nothing: every creature I killed, I took off the
skins and preserved them: coming back by the seashore, I
saw many sorts of sea fowls which I did not understand,
but was surprised and almost frighted with two or three
seals, which, while I was gazing at, not well knowing what
they were, got into the sea and escaped me for that time.
Nov. 6.—After my morning walk I went to work with
my table again, and finished it, though not to my liking; nor
was it long before I learned to mend1 it.
Nov. 7.—Now it began to be settled fair weather. The
7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th
'was Sunday*) I took wholly up to make me a chair, and
with much ado brought it to a tolerable shape, but never
to please me, and even in the making I pulled it in pieces
several times. Note.—I soon neglected my keeping Sundays,
for, omitting my mark for them on my post, I forgot which
was which.
Nov. 13.—This day it rained, which refreshed'me exceed-
ngly, and cooled the earth, but it was accompanied with ter-
rible thunder and lightning, which frighted me dreadfully
1 mend it: improve it.
for fear of my powder; as soon as it was over, I resolved
to separate my stock of powder into as many little parcels
as possible, that it might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16.—These three days I spent in making
little square chests or boxes, which might hold about a pound,
or two pound at most, of powder; and so, putting the powder
in, I stowed it in places as secure and remote from one
another as possible. On one of these three days I killed a
large bird that was good to eat, but I know not what to
call it.
Nov. 17.—This day I began to dig behind my tent into
the rock, to make room for my farther conveniency. Note.—
Three* things I wanted1 exceedingly for this work, viz., a
pick-axe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow or basket, so I desisted
from my work, and began to consider how to supply that
want and make me some tools: as for a pick-axe, I made
use of the iron crows, which were proper enough, though
heavy; but the next thing was a shovel Cr spade; this was
so absolutely necessary, that indeed I could do nothing
effectually without it, but what kind of one to make I
knew not.
Nov. 18.—The next day, in searching the woods, I found
a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the Brazils they
call the iron tree, for its exceeding hardness; of this, with
great labor, and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a piece, and
brought it home too with difficulty enough, for it was
exceeding heavy.
The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no other
way, made me a long while upon this machine2, for I worked
it effectually by little and little into the form of a shovel
or spade, the handle exactly shaped like ours in England,
only that the broad part having no iron shod upon it at
bottom, it would not last me so long; however, it served
well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put it
1 wanted: needed.
2 machine: implement.
to; but never was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion,
or so long a-making.
I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a wheel-
barrow; a basket I could not make by any means, having
no such things as twigs that would bend to make wicker
ware, at least none yet found out; and as to a wheelbarrow,
I fancied I could make all but the wheel, but that I had
no notion of, neither did I know how to go about it; besides,
I had no possible way to make the iron gudgeons for the
spindle or axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave it over;
and so, for carrying away the earth which I dug out of
the cave, I made me a thing like a hod which the laborers
carry mortar in when they serve the bricklayers.
This was not so difficult to me as the making the shovel;
and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt which I made
in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me up no less than
four days, I mean always excepting my morning walk with
my gun, which I "seldom failed, and very seldom failed also
bringing* home something fit to eat.
Nov. 23.—My other work having now stood still, because
of my making these tools, when they were finished I went
on, and working every day, as my strength and time allowed,
I spent eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening my
cave, that it might hold my goods commodiously.
Note.—During all this time I worked to make this
room or cave spacious enough to accommodate me as a
warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cel-
lar; as for my lodging, I kept to the tent, except that some-
times in the wet season of the year it rained so hard that
I could not keep myself dry, which caused me afterwards
to cover all my place within my pale with long poles, in the
form of rafters, leaning against the rock, and load them with
flags and large leaves of trees, like a thatch.
December 10.—I began now to think my cave or vault
finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large)
a great quantity of earth fell down from the top and one
side, so much that in short it frighted me, and not without
reason, too; for if I had been under it, I had never wanted
a grave digger: upon this disaster I had a great deal of work
to do over again; for I had the loose earth to carry out, and,
which was of more importance, I had the ceiling to prop
up, so that I might be sure no more would come down.
Dec. 11.—This day I went to work with it accordingly,
and got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with
two pieces of boards across over each post:—this I finished
the next day, and setting more posts up with boards, in about
a week more I had the roof secured; and the posts, standing
in rows, served me for partitions to part of my house.
Dec. 17.—From this day to the twentieth I placed
shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts to hang every-
thing up that could be hung up, and now I began to be in
some order within doors.
Dec. 20.—Now I carried everything into the cave, and
began to furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards,
like a dresser, to order my victuals upon, but boards began
to be very scarce with me; also I made me another table.
Dec. 24.—Much rain all night and all day; no stirring
out.
Dec. 25.—Rain all day.
Dec. 26.—No rain, and the earth much cooler than
before, and pleasanter.
Dec. 27.—Killed a young goat, and lamed another, so
as that I catched it, and led it home in a string; when I
had it home, I bound and splintered up its leg, which was
broke. N. B.—I took such care of it that it lived, and the
leg grew well and as strong as ever; but by nursing it so
long it grew tame, and fed upon the little green at my
door, and would not go away: this was the first time that I
entertained a thought of breeding up some tame creatures that
I might have food when my powder and shot was all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30.—Great heats and no breeze; so that
there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening for food;
this time I spent in putting all my things in order within
doors.
January 1.—Very hot still, but I went abroad early and
late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day;
this evening going farther into the valleys which lay towards
the centre of the island, I found there was plenty of goats,
though exceeding shy and hard to come at; however, I
resolved to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt them
down.
Jan. 2.—Accordingly, the next day, I went out with my
dog, and set him upon the goats; but I was mistaken, for
they all faced about upon the dog, and he knew his danger
too well, for he would not come near them.
Jan. 3.—I began my fence or wall; which, being still
jealous1 of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to
make very thick and strong.
N. B.—This wall being described before, I purposely
omit what was said in the journal; it is sufficient to observe,
that I was no less time than from the 3d of January to
the 14th of April working, finishing, and perfecting this
wall, though it was no more than about 24 yards in length,
being a half circle from one place in the rock to another
place about eight yards from it, the door of the cave being
in the centre behind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me
many days, nay, sometimes weeks together; but I thought
I should never be perfectly secure till this wall was finished;
and it is scarce credible what inexpressible labor everything
was done with, especially the bringing piles out of the woods,
and driving them into the ground, for I made them much
bigger than I need to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside double-
1 jealous: apprehensive.
fenced with a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded
myself that if any people were to come on shore there, they
would not perceive anything like a habitation; and it was
very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter upon a
very remarkable occasion.
During this time I made my rounds in the woods for
game every day when the rain admitted me, and made fre-
quent discoveries in these walks of something or other to
my advantage; particularly I found a kind of wild pigeons,
who built not as wood pigeons in a tree, but rather as
house pigeons, in the holes of the rocks; and taking some
young ones, I endeavored to breed them up tame, and did
so; but when they grew older they flew all away, which
perhaps was at first for want of feeding them, for I had
nothing to give them; however, I frequently found their
nests, and got their young ones, which were very good meat.
And now, in the managing my household affairs, I found
myself wanting in many things, which I thought at first
it was impossible for me to make, as indeed as to some
of them it was; for instance, I could never make a cask to
be hooped; I had a small runlet or two, as I observed before,
but I could never arrive to the capacity of making one by
them, though I spent many weeks about it; I could neither
put in the heads, or joint the staves so true to one another,
as to make them hold water, so I gave that also over.
In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle; so
that as soon as ever it was dark, which was generally by
seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed: I remembered
the lump of beeswax with which I made candles in my
African adventure, but I had none of that now; the only
remedy I had was, that when I had killed a goat, I saved
the tallow, and with a little dish made of clay, which I
baked in the sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum,
I made'me a lamp; and this gave me light, though not a
clear steady light like a candle; in the middle of all my
labors it happened that, rummaging my things, I found a
little bag, which, as I hinted before, had been filled with
corn1 for the feeding of poultry, not for this voyage, but
before, as I suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon; what
little remainder of corn had been in the bag was all devoured
with the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag but husks and
dust; and being willing to have the bag for some other
use (I think it was to put powder in, when I divided it for
fear of the lightning, or some such use), I shook the husks of
corn out of it on one side of my fortification under the rock.
It was a little before the great rains, just now men-
tioned, that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice of any-
thing, and not so much as remembering that I had thrown
anything there; when, about a month after, or thereabout,
I saw some few stalks of something green shooting out of the
ground, which I fancied might be some plant I had not
seen: but I was surprised and perfectly astonished, when,
after a little longer time, I saw about ten or twelve ears
come out, which were perfect green barley, of the same
kind as our European, nay, as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion
of my thoughts on this occasion; I had hitherto acted upon
no religious foundation at all; indeed I had very few notions
of religion in my head, or had entertained any sense of
anything that had befallen me, otherwise than as a chance,
or, as we lightly say, what pleases God; without so much
as inquiring into the end of Providence in these things, or
His order in governing events in the world: but after I
saw barley grow there, in a climate'which I knew* was
not proper for corn, and especially that I knew not how it
came there, it startled me strangely, and I began to suggest
that God had miraculously caused this grain to grow with-
out any help of seed sown, and that it was so directed
purely for my sustenance on that wild miserable place.
i corn: barley and wheat; cf. above, p. 92; only the barley comes up. He
also sows and harvests rice; cf. below p. 151.
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out
of my eyes, and I began to bless myself, that such a prodigy
of Nature should happen upon my account; and this was
the more strange to me, because I saw near it still, all along
by the side of the rock, some other straggling stalks, which
proved to be stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I
had seen it grow in Africa when I was ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions of Provi-
dence for my support, but not doubting but that there was
more in the place, I went all over that part of the island
where I had been before, peering in every corner, and under
every rock, to see for1 more of it, but I could not find any;
at last it occurred to my thoughts that I had shook a bag
of chickens' meat2 out in that place, and then the wonder
began to cease; and I must confess, my religious thankful-
ness to God's providence began to abate too, upon the dis-
covering that all this was nothing but what was common;
though I ought to have been as thankful for so strange and
unforeseen providence, as if it had been miraculous; for it
was really the work of Providence as to me, that should
order or appoint that 10 or 12 grains of corn should remain
unspoiled (when the rats had destroyed all the rest), as
if it had been dropt from heaven; as also, that I should
throw it out in that particular place, where it being in the
shade of a high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas,
if I had thrown it anywhere else at that time, it had been
burnt up and destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure,
in their season, which was about the end of June; and
laying up every corn3, I resolved to sow them all again,
hoping in time to have some quantity sufficient to supply
me with bread; but it was not till the 4th year that I could
allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and even then
1 to see for: Cf. above p. 115.
a chickens' meal: "Meat" has here its original sense of "food."
» every corn: i.e., every grain.
but sparingly, as I shall say afterwards in its order; for I
lost all that I sowed the first season, by not observing the
proper time; for I sowed it just before the dry season, so
that it never came up at all, at least not as it would ha' done:
of which in its place.
Besides this barley, there was, as above, 20 or 30 stalks
of rice, which I preserved with the same care, and whose
use was of the same kind or to the same purpose, viz., to
make me bread, or rather food; for I found ways to cook it
up without baking, though I did that also after some time.
But to return to my journal.
I worked excessive hard these three or four months to
get my wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up,
contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over the wall
by a ladder, that there might be no sign in the outside
of my habitation.
April 16. — I finished the ladder, so I went up with
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and
let it down in the inside: this was a complete enclosure
to me; for within I had room enough, and nothing could
come at me from without, unless it could first mount my
wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I had
almost had all my labor overthrown at once, and myself
killed; the case was thus: as I was busy in the inside of it,
behind my tent, just in the entrance into my cave, I was
terribly frighted with a most dreadful surprising thing
indeed; for all on a sudden I found the earth come crumb-
ling down from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of
the hill over my head, and two of the posts I had set up in
the cave cracked in a frightful manner; I was heartily
scared, but thought nothing of what was really the cause,
only thinking that the top of my cave was falling in, as
some of it had done before; and for fear I should be buried
in it, I run forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself
safe there neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces
of the hill which I expected might roll down upon me: I was
no sooner stepped down upon the firm ground, but I plainly
saw it was a terrible earthquake, for the ground I stood
on shook three time at about eight minutes' distance, with
three such shocks as would have overturned the strongest
building that could be supposed to have stood on the earth,
and a great piece of the top of a rock, which stood about
half a mile from me, next the sea, fell down with such
a terrible noise, as I never heard in all my life: I perceived
also the very sea was put into violent motion by it; and I
believe the shocks were stronger under the water than on
the island.
I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never felt
the like, or discoursed with any one that had, that I was
like one dead or stupefied; and the motion of the earth made
my stomach sick like one that was tossed at sea; but the
noise of the falling of the rock awaked me, a* it were, and
rousing me from the stupefied condition I was in, filled me
with horror, and I thought of nothing then but the hill
falling upon my tent and all my household goods, and burying
all at once; and this sunk my very soul within me a second
time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for
some time, I began to take courage, and yet I had not
heart enough to go over my wall again, for fear of being
buried alive, but sat still upon the ground, greatly cast down
and disconsolate, not knowing what to do: all this while I
had not the least serious religious thought, nothing but the
common "Lord, have * mercy upon me!" and when it was
over, that went away too.
While I sat thus, I found the air overcast and grow
cloudy, as if it would rain; soon after that the wind rose
by little and little*, so that in less than half an hour it blew
a most dreadful hurricane: the sea was all on a sudden
covered over with foam and froth, the shore was covered
with the breach of the water, the trees were torn up by the
roots, and a terrible storm it was: and this held about three
hours, and then began to abate, and in two hours more it
was stark calm, and began to rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground very much terri-
fied and dejected, when on a sudden it came into my thoughts
that these winds and rain being the consequences of the
earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and
I might venture into my cave.again: with this thought my
spirits began to revive, and the rain also helping to per-
suade me, I went in and sat down in my tent, but the rain
was so violent that my tent was ready to be beaten down
with it, and I was forced to go into my cave, though very
much afraid and uneasy for fear it should fall on my head.
This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to cut
a hole through my new fortification like a sink, to let the
water go out, which would else have drowned my cave.
After I had been in my cave some time, and found still no
more shocks of the earthquake follow, I began to be more
composed; and now to support my spirits, which indeed
wanted it very much, I went to my little store and took a
small sup of rum, which, however, I did then and always
very sparingly, knowing I could have no more when that
was gone.
It continued raining all that night, and great part of
the next day, so that I could not stir abroad, but my mind
being more composed, I began to think of what I had best
do, concluding that if the island was subject to these earth-
quakes, there would be no living for me in a cave, but I
must consider of building me some little hut in an open place
which I might surround with a wall, as I had done here,
and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men; but
concluded if I stayed where I was, I should certainly, one
time or other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent from
the place where it stood, which was just under the hanging
precipice of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken again,
would certainly fall upon my tent: and I spent the two next
days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in contriving where
and how to remove my habitation.
The fear of being swallowed up alive made me that I
never slept in quiet, and yet the apprehensions t of lying
abroad without any fence was almost equal to it; but still,
when I looked about and saw how everything was put in
order, how pleasantly concealed I was, and how safe from
danger, it made me very loath to remove.
In the mean time it occurred to me that it would require
a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that I must be
contented to run the venture where I was, till I had formed
a camp for myself and had secured it so as to remove to it:
so with this resolution I composed myself for a time, and
resolved that I would go to work with all speed to build
me a wall with piles and cables, &c, in a circle as before,
and set my tent up in it when it was finished, but that I
would venture to stay where I was till it was finished, and
fit to remove to. This was the 21st.
April 22. — The next morning I began to consider of
means to put this resolve in execution, but I was at a
great loss about my tools; I had three large axes and abund-
ance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for traffic with
the Indians), but with much chopping and cutting knotty
hard wood, they were all full of notches and dull, and
though I had a grindstone, I could not turn it and grind my
tools too; this cost me as much thought as a statesman would
have bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge
upon the life and death of a man. At length I contrived
a wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might
have both my hands at liberty. Note.—I had never seen
any such thing in England or at least not to take notice
how it was done, though since I have observed it is very
common there: besides that, my grindstone was very large
and heavy. This machine cost me a full week's work to
bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29. — These two whole days I took up in
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grindstone
performing very well.
April 30. — Having perceived my bread had been low
a great while, now I took a survey of it, and reduced myself
to one biscuit-cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.
May 1. — In the morning looking towards the seaside,
the tide being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger
than ordinary, and it looked like a cask; when I came to
it, I found a small barrel, and two or three pieces of the
wreck of the ship, which were driven on shore by the late hur-
ricane, and looking towards the wreck itself, I thought it
seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do; I
examined the barrel which was driven on shore, and soon
found it was a barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken water,
and the powder was caked as hard as a stone; however, I
rolled it farther on shore for the present, and went on upon
the sands as near as I could to the wreck of the ship, to look
for more.
When I came down to the ship I found it strangely
removed; the forecastle, which lay before buried in sand,
was heaved up at least six foot, and the stern, which was
broke to pieces and parted from the rest by the force of
the sea soon after I had left rummaging her, was tossed, as
it were, up, and cast on one side, and the sand was thrown
so high on that side next her stern, that whereas there was
a great place of water before, so that I could not come
within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without swimming,
I could now walk quite up to her when the tide was out;
I was surprised with this at first, but soon concluded it
must be done by the earthquake, and as by this violence
the ship was more broken open than formerly, so many
things came daily on shore, which the sea had loosened, and
which the winds and water rolled by degrees to the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of
removing my habitation; and I busied myself mightily that
day especially, in searching whether I could make any way
into the ship, but I found nothing was to be expected of
that kind, for that all the inside of the ship was choked up
with sand: however, as I had learned not to despair of
anything, I resolved to pull everything to pieces that I could
of the ship, concluding that everything I could get from her
would be of some use or other to me.
May 3. — I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a
beam through, which I thought held some of the upper part
or quarter-deck together, and when I had cut it through, I
cleared away the sand as well as I could from the side which
lay highest; but the tide coming in, I was obliged to give
over for that time.
May 4. — I went a-fishing, but caught not one fish that
I durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport, when, just going
to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I had made me a
long line of some rope yarn, but I had no hooks, yet I fre-
quently caught fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all
which I dried in the sun, and eat them dry.
May 5. — Worked on the wreck, cut another beam
asunder, and brought three great fir planks off from the
decks, which I tied together, and made swim on shore when
the tide of flood came on.
May 6. — Worked on the wreck, got several iron bolts
out of her, and other pieces of iron work, worked very hard,
and came home very much tired, and had thoughts of giving
it over.
May 7. — Went to the wreck again, but with an intent
not to work, but found the weight of the wreck had broke
itself down, the beams being cut, that several pieces of the
ship seemed to lie loose, and the inside of the hold lay so
open, that I could see into it, almost * full of water and
sand.
May 8. — Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow
to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the
water or sand; I wrenched open two planks, and brought
them on shore also with the tide: I left the iron crow in
the wreck for next day.
May 9. — Went to the wreck, and with the crow made
way into the body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and
loosened them with the crow, but could not break them up;
I felt also the roll of English lead, and could stir it, but it
was too heavy to remove.
May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. —Went every day to the wreck,
and got a great deal of pieces of timber, and boards, or
plank, and 2 or 300 weight of iron.
May 15. — I carried two hatchets to try if I could not
cut a piece off of the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one
hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as it lay about
a foot and a half in the water, I could not make any blow
to drive the hatchet.
May 16. — It had blowed hard in the night, and the
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water; but
I stayed so long in the woods to get pigeons for food, that
the tide prevented me going to the wreck that day *.
May 17.— I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on
shore, at a great distance, near two miles off me, but resolved
to see what they were, and found it was a piece of the head2,
but too heavy for me bring away.
May 24. — Every day to this day I worked on the wreck,
and with hard labor I loosened some things so much with
the crow, that the first blowing tide several casks floated out,
and two of the seamen's chests; but the wind blowing from
1 thai day: Note that in form the diary is not a day by day chronicle but la
written "after the event."
* the head: the prow.
t
the shore, nothing came to land that day but pieces of
timber, and a hogshead which had some Brazil pork in it,
but the salt water and the sand had spoiled it.
I continued this work every day to the 15th of June,,
except the time necessary to get food, which I always
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be when
the tide was up, that I might be ready when it was ebbed
out; and by this time I had gotten timber, and plank, and
iron work enough to have builded a good boat, if I had
known how; and also I got at several times, and in several
pieces, near 100 weight of the sheet lead.
June 16.—- Going down to the seaside, I found a large
tortoise or turtle; this was the first I had seen, which it
seems was only my misfortune, not any defect of the place,
or scarcity; for had I happened to be on the other side of
the island, I might have had hundreds of them every day,
as I found afterwards; but perhaps had paid dear enough
for them.
June 17 I spent in cooking the turtle; I found in her
threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me at that time the
most savory and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life, hav-
ing had no flesh but of goats and fowls, since I landed in
this horrid place.
June 18. — Rained all day, and I stayed within. I
thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was something
chilly, which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19. — Very ill and shivering, as if the weather had
been cold.
June 20. — No rest all night; violent pains in my head'
and feverish.
June 21. — Very ill, frighted almost to death with the
apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, and no help;
prayed to God for the first time since the storm off of Hull,
but scarce knew what I said or why; my thoughts being;
all confused.
June 22. — A little better but under dreadful appre-
hensions of sickness.
June 23. — Very bad again, cold and shivering, and
then a violent headache.
June 24. — Much better.
June 25. — An ague, very violent; the fit held me seven
hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it.
June 26. — Better; and having no victuals to eat, took
my gun, but found myself very weak; however, I killed a
she goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and broiled
some of it, and eat; I would fain have stewed it and made
some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. — The ague again so violent that I lay abed
all day, and neither eat or drank. I was ready to perish
for thirst, but so weak I had not strength to stand up, or
to get myself any water to drink; prayed to God again, but
was light-headed, and when I was not, I was so ignorant,
that I knew not what to say; only I lay and cried, "Lord,
look upon me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy upon me!"
I suppose I did nothing else for two or three hours, till the
fit wearing off, I fell asleep and did not wake till far in the
night; when I waked, I found myself much refreshed, but
weak, and exceeding thirsty: however, as I had no water in
my whole habitation, I was forced to lie till morning, and
went to sleep again: in this second sleep, I had this terrible
dream.
I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the outside
of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew after the
earthquake, and that I saw a man descend from a great
black cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and light upon the
ground: he was all over as bright as a flame, so that I could
but just bear to look towards him; his countenance was most
inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe;
when he stepped upon the ground with his feet, I thought
the earth trembled, just as it had done before in the earth-
quake, and all the air looked, to my apprehension, as if it
had been filled with flashes of fire.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved
forward towards me, with a long spear or weapon. in his
hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rising ground, at
some distance, he spoke to me, or I heard a voice so terrible,
that it is impossible to express the terror of it; all that I can
say I understood was this: "Seeing all these things have not
brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die;" at which
words, I thought he lifted up the spear that was in his
hand, to kill me.
No one that shall ever read this account will expect that
I should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this
terrible vision; I mean, that even while it was a dream, I
even dreamed of those horrors; nor is it any more possible to
describe the impression that remained upon my mind when
I awaked and found it was but a dream.
I had, alas! no divine knowledge; what I had received
by the good instruction of my father was then worn out by
an uninterrupted series, for 8 years, of seafaring wicked-
ness, and a constant conversation with nothing but such as
were, like myself, wicked and profane to the last degree:
I do not remember that I had in all that time one thought
that so much as tended either to looking upwards toward
God, or inwards towards a reflection upon my own ways:
but a certain stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or
conscience of evil1, had entirely overwhelmed me, and I was
all that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature
among our common sailors can be supposed to be, not hav-
ing the least sense, either of the fear of God in danger, or
of thankfulness to God in deliverance.
In the relating what is already past of my story, this
will be the more easily believed, when I shall add, that
through all the variety of miseries that had to this day
1 conscience of evil: consciousness of his wickedness; conviction of sin.
befallen me, I never had so much as one thought of it being
the hand of God, or that it was a just punishment for my sin;
my rebellious behavior against my father, or my present sins,
which, were great; or so much as a punishment for the gen-
eral course of my wicked life. When I was on the desperate
expedition on the desert shores of Africa, I never had so
much as one thought of what would become of me; or one
wish to God to direct me whether1 I should go, or to keep
me from the danger which apparently surrounded me, as
well from voracious creatures as cruel savages: but I was
merely2 thoughtless of a God, or a Providence; acted like a
mere brute from the principles of nature, and by the dictates
of common sense only, and indeed hardly that.
When I was delivered and taken up at sea by the Portu-
gal captain, well used, and dealt justly and honorably with,
as well as charitably, I had not the least thankfulness on my
thoughts; when again I was shipwrecked, ruined, and in
danger of drowning on this island, I was as far from remorse,
or looking on it as a judgment; I only said to myself often,
that I was "an unfortunate dog," and born to be always
miserable.
It is true, when I got on shore first here, and found
all my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, I was sur-
prised with a kind of ecstasy, and some transports of soul,
which, had the grace of God assisted, might have come
up to true thankfulness; but it ended where it begun, in
a mere common flight of joy, or, as I may say, "being glad
I was alive," without the least reflection upon the distin-
guishing goodness of the Hand which had preserved me, and
had singled me out to be preserved when all the rest were
destroyed; or an inquiry why Providence had been thus
merciful to me: even just the same common sort of joy
which seamen generally have after they are got safe ashore
1 whether: i.e., "whither," which is the reading of the 6th edn.
* merely: absolutely.
from a shipwreck, which they drown all in the next bowl
of punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over, and all
the rest of my life was like it.
Even when I was afterwards, on due consideration, made
sensible of my condition, how I was cast on this dreadful
place, out of the reach of human kind, out of all hope of
relief, or prospect of redemption, as soon as I saw but a
prospect of living, and that I should not starve and perish
for hunger, all the sense of my affliction wore off, and I
begun to be very easy, applied myself to the works proper
for my preservation and supply, and was far enough from
being afflicted at my condition, as a judgment from Heaven,
or as the hand of God against me; these were thoughts which
very seldom entered into my head.
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my journal,
had at first some little influence upon me, and began to
affect me with seriousness, as long as I thought it had some-
thing miraculous in it; but as soon as ever that part of the
thought was removed, all the impression which was raised
from it wore off also, as I have noted already.
Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more
terrible in its nature, or more immediately directing to the
invisible Power which alone directs such things, yet no
sooner was the first fright over, but the impression it had
made went off also. I had no more sense of God or His
judgments, much less of the present affliction of my circum-
stances being from His hand, than if I had been in the
most prosperous condition of life.
But now when I began to be sick, and a leisurely view
of the miseries of death came to place itself before me; when
my spirits began to sink under the burthen of a strong dis-
temper, and nature was exhausted with the violence of the
fever; conscience, that had slept so long, begun to awake,
and I began to reproach myself with my past life, in which
I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness, provoked
the justice of God to lay me under uncommon strokes,
and to deal with me in so vindictive a manner.
These reflections oppressed me for the second or third
day of my distemper, and in the violence, as well of the
fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my conscience, extorted
some words from me, like praying to God, though I cannot
say they were either a prayer attended with desires or with
hopes; it was rather the voice of mere fright and distress;
my thoughts were confused, the convictions great upon my
mind, and the horror of dying in such a miserable condition
raised vapors into my head1 with the mere apprehensions;
and in these hurries2 of my soul, I know not what my
tongue might express: but it was rather exclamation, such
as, "Lord! what a miserable creature am I! If I should
be sick, I shall certainly die for want of help, and what will
become of me?" Then the tears burst out of my eyes, and
I could say no more for a good while.
In this interval, the good advice of my father came to
my mind, and presently his prediction, which I mentioned
at the beginning of this story, viz., that if I did take this
foolish step, God would not bless me, and I would have
leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his counsel,
when there might be none to assist in my recovery. "Now,"
said I aloud, "my dear father's words are come to pass:
God's justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or
hear me: I rejected the voice of Providence, which had
mercifully put me in a posture or station of life wherein I
might have been happy and easy; but I would neither see
it myself, or learn to know the blessing of it from my
parents; I left them to mourn over my folly, and now I am
left to mourn under the consequences of it: I refused their
help and assistance who would have lifted me into the
world, and would have made everything easy to me, and
1 raised vapors into my head: filled my head with fantastic and depressing
ideas.
* hurries: agitations.
now I have difficulties to struggle with too great for even
nature itself to support, and no assistance, no help, no
comfort, no advice." Then I cried out, "Lord, be my help,
for I am in great distress."
This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had
made for many years: but I return to my journal.
June 28.—Having been somewhat refreshed with the
sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up; and
though the fright and terror of my dream was very great,
yet I considered that the fit of the ague would return again
the next day, and now was my time to get something to
refresh and support myself when I should be ill; and the
first thing I did, I filled a large square case bottle with water,
and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed; and to take off
the chill or aguish disposition of the water, I put about a
quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed them together;
then I got me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the
coals, but could eat very little; I walked about, but was
very weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted in the
sense of my miserable condition, dreading the return of my
distemper the next day; at night I made my supper of three
of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and eat, as
we call it, in the shell; and this was the first bit of meat I
had ever asked God's blessing to, even, as I could remember,
in my whole life.
After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so
weak that I could hardly carry the gun (for I never went
out without that) ; so I went but a little way, and sat down
upon the ground, looking out upon the sea, which was just
before me, and very calm and smooth; as I sat here, some
such thoughts as these occurred to me.
What is this earth and sea of which I have seen so
much? Whence is it produced? and what am I and all the
other creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal, whence
are we?
Sure we are all made by some secret Power, who formed
the earth and sea, the air and sky; and who is that?
Then it followed most naturally, It is God that has
made it all. Well, but then, it came on strangely, if God
has made all these things, He guides and governs them all,
and all things that concern them; for the Power that could
make all things must certainly have power to guide and
direct them.
If so, nothing can happen, in the great circuit of His
works, either without His knowledge or appointment.
And if nothing happens without His knowledge, He
knows that I am here, and am in this dreadful condition;
and if nothing happens without His appointment, He has
appointed all this to befall me.
Nothing occurred to my thought to contradict any of
these conclusions; and therefore it rested upon me with
the greater force, that it must needs be that God had
appointed all this to befall me; that I was brought to this
miserable circumstance by His direction, He having the
sole power, not of me only, but of everything that happened
in the world. Immediately it followed,
Why has God done this to me? What have I done to be
thus used?
My conscience presently checked me in that inquiry, as
if I had blasphemed, and methought it spoke to me like a
voice: "WRETCH! dost thou ask what thou hast done?
Look back upon a dreadful misspent life, and ask thyself
what thou hast not done; ask, why is it that thou wert not-
long .ago destroyed? Why wert thou not drowned in Yar-
mouth Roads? killed in the fight when the ship was taken
by the Sallee man-of-war? devoured by the wild beasts on
the coast of Africa? or drowned HERE, when all the crew
perished but thyself? Dost thou ask, 'What have I done?'"
I was struck dumb with these reflections, as one
astonished, and had not a word to say, no, not to answer
to myself, but rise * up pensive and sad, walked back to my
retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I had been going
to bed, but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had
no inclination to sleep; so I sat down in my chair, and
lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now, as the
apprehension of the return of my distemper terrified me
very much, it occurred to my thought, that the Brazilians
take no physic1 but their tobacco, for almost all distempers;
and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests,
which was quite cured, and some also that was. green and
not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven no doubt; for in this chest I
found a cure, both for soul and body; I opened the chest,
and found what I looked for, viz., the tobacco; and as the
few books I had saved lay there too, I took out one of the
Bibles which I mentioned before, and which to this time I
had not found leisure, or so much as inclination, to Idok
into; I say, I took it out, and brought both that and the
tobacco with me to the table.
What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to my
distemper, or whether it was good for it or no; but I tried
several experiments with it, as if I was resolved it should
hit one way or other: I first took a piece of a leaf, and
chewed it in my mouth, which indeed at first almost stupefied
my brain, the tobacco being green and strong, and that I had
not been much used to it; then I took some and steeped it
an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose
of it when I lay down; and lastly, I burnt some upon a
pan of coals, and held my nose close over the smoke of it
as long as I could bear it, as well for the heat as almost for
suffocation.
In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible
and began to read, but my head was too much disturbed
with the tobacco to bear reading, at least that time; only
1 physic: medicine.
having opened the book casually, the first words that occurred
to me were these, "Call on Me in the day of trouble, and I
will deliver, and thou shalt glorify Me1."
The words were very apt to my case, and made some
impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading them,
though not so much as they did afterwards; for as for being
delivered, the word had no sound, as I may say, to me; the
thing was so remote, so impossible .in my apprehension of
things, that I began to say, as the Children of Israel did
when they were promised flesh to eat, "Can God Spread a
table in the wilderness?2" so I began to say, "Can God Him-
self deliver me from this place?" And as it was not for
many years that any hope appeared, this prevailed very
often upon my thoughts; but, however, the words made a
great impression upon me, and I mused upon them very
often. It grew now late, and the tobacco had, as I said,
dozed my head so much, that I inclined to sleep; so I left
my lamp burning in the cave, lest I should want anything
in the night, and went to bed; but before I lay down, I did
what I never had done in my life; I kneeled down, and
prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that if I called
upon Him in the day of trouble, He would deliver me;
after my broken and imperfect prayer was over, I drunk
the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco, which was so
strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed I could scarce
get it down; immediately upon this I went to bed; I found
presently it flew up in my head violently, but I fell into a
sound sleep, and waked no more till by the sun it must
necessarily be near three o'clock in the afternoon the next
day; nay, to this hour I'm partly of the opinion that I
slept all the next day and night, and till almost three that
day after; for otherwise I knew not how I should lose a
day out of my reckoning in the days of the week, as it
appeared some years after I had done: for if I had lost it
Call on me: Psalms I. 15.
s Can God spread: Psalms lxxviii. 19.
by crossing and recrossing the line1, I should have lost more
than one day: but certainly I lost a day in my account, and
never knew which way.
Be that, however, one way or th' other, when I awaked
I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively
and cheerful; when I got up, I was stronger than I was
the day before, and my stomach better, for I was hungry;
and in short, I had no fit the next day, but continued much
altered for the better: this was the 29th.
The 30th was my well day of course, and I went abroad
with my gun, but did not care to travel too far; I killed a
sea-fowl or two, something like a brand-goose, and brought
them home, but was not very forward to eat them; so I eat
some more of the turtle's eggs, which were very good: this
evening I renewed the medicine, which I had supposed did
me good the day before, viz., the tobacco steeped in rum,
only I did not take so much as before, nor did I chew any
of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke; however, I
was not so well the next day, which was the 1st of July,
as I hoped I should have been; for I had a little spice of
the cold fit, but it was not much.
July 2.—I renewed the medicine all the three ways, and
dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled'the quantity
which I drank.
[July] 3.—I missed the fit for good and all, though I
did not recover my full strength for some weeks after; while
I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts run exceedingly
upon this Scripture, "I will deliver thee," and the impos-
sibility of my deliverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of2
my ever expecting it: but as I was discouraging myself with
such thoughts, it occurred to my mind, that I pored so much
i lost it by crossing . . . the line: By "the line" Defoe certainly refers to
the equator. But he apparently makes the mistake of supposing that one could
lose or gain days, by crossing the equator, as one does in crossing the 180th parallel.
1 in bar of: i.e., serving as an obstacle to.
upon my deliverance from the main affliction, that I dis-
regarded the deliverance I had received; and I was, as it
were, made to ask myself such questions as these, viz.: Have
I not been delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness?
from the most distressed condition that could be, and that
was so frightful to me? and what notice had I taken of it?*
Had I done my part? God had delivered me, but I had
not glorified Him; that is to say, I had not owned and been
thankful for that as a deliverance, and how could I expect
greater deliverance?
This touched my heart very much, and immediately I
kneeled down and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery
from my sickness.
July 4.—In the morning I took the Bible, and beginning
at the New Testament, I began seriously to read it, and
imposed upon myself to read a while every morning and
every night, not tying myself to the number of chapters, but
as long as my thoughts should engage me; it was not long
after I set seriously to this work, but I found my heart more
deeply and sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past
life: the impression of my dream revived, and the words,
"All these things have not brought thee to repentance," ran
seriously in my thought: I was earnestly begging of God to
give me repentance, when it happened providentially, the
very day, that, reading the Scripture, I came to these words,
"He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance
and to give remission.1" I threw down the book, and with
my heart as well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind
of ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou son of
David, Jesus, Thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me
repentance!"
This was the first time that I could say, in the true
sense of the words, that I prayed, in all my life; for now I
prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a true Scrip-
1 He is exalted: Inexact quotation of Acts v. 31.
ture view of hope founded on the encouragement of the
Word of God; and from this time, I may say, I began to
have hope that God would hear me.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned above,
"Call on Me and I will deliver you," in a different sense
from what I had ever done before; for then I had no notion
of anything being called deliverance but my being delivered
from the captivity I was in; for though I was indeed at
large in the place, yet the island was certainly a prison to
me, and that in the worst sense in the world; but now I
learned to take it in another sense: now I looked back upon
my past life with such horror, and my sins appeared so
dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of God, but deliver-
ance from the load of guilt that bore down all my comfort:
as for my solitary life, it was nothing; I did not so much
as pray to be delivered from it, or think of it; it was all of
no consideration in comparison to this: and I add this part
here, to hint to whoever shall read it, that whenever they
come to a true sense of things, they will find deliverance
from sin a much greater blessing than deliverance from
affliction.
But, leaving this part, I return to my journal.
My condition began now to be, though not less miserable
as to my way of living, yet much easier to my mind; and
my thoughts being directed, by a constant reading the
Scripture and praying to God, to things of a higher nature, I
had a great deal of comfort within, which till now I knew
nothing of; also, as my health and strength returned, I
bestirred myself to furnish myself with everything that I
wanted, and make my way of living as regular as I could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed
in walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and a
little at a time, as a man that was gathering up his strength
after a fit of sickness: for it is hardly to be imagined how
low I was, and to what weakness I was reduced. The
application which I made use of was perfectly new, and
perhaps what had never cured an ague before, neither can I
recommend it to any one to practise, by this experiment; and
though it did carry off the fit, yet it rather contributed to
weakening me; for I had frequent convulsions in my nerves
and limbs for some time.
I learned from it also this in particular, that being abroad
in the rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my
health that could be, especially in those rains which came
attended with storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the
rain which came in the dry season was always most accom-
panied with such storms, so I found that rain was much
more dangerous than the rain which fell in September and
October.
I had been now in this unhappy island about* ten months;
all possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to
be entirely taken from me; and I firmly believed that no
human shape had ever set foot upon that place: having
now secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind,
I had a great desire to make a more perfect discovery1 of
the island, and to see what other productions I might find,
which I yet knew nothing of.
It was the 15th- of July that I began to take a more
particular survey of the island itself: I went up the creek
first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore; I
found, after I came about two miles up, that the tide did
not flow any higher, and that it was no more than a little
brook of running water, and very fresh and good; but this
being the dry season, there was hardly any water in some
parts of it, at least, not enough to run in any stream, so as it
could be perceived.
On the bank of this brook I found many pleasant
savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass;
and on the rising parts of them next to the higher grounds,
1 discovery: exploration.
where the water, as it might be supposed, never overflowed,
I found a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a
great and very strong stalk; there were divers other plants
which I had no notion of or understanding about, and
might perhaps have virtues of their own, which I could not
find out.
I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians in all
that climate make their bread of, but I could find none. I
saw large plants of aloes, but did not then understand them.
I saw several sugar-canes, but wild, and, for want of culti-
vation, imperfect. I contented myself with these discoveries
for this-time, and came back musing with myself what course
I might take to know the virtue and goodness of any of the
fruits or plants which I should discover; but could bring it
to no conclusion; for, in short, I had made so little observa-
tion while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the
plants in the field, at least very little that might serve me to
any purpose now in my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again;
and after going something farther than I had gone the day
before, I found the brook and the savannas began to cease,
and the country became more woody than before; in this
part I found different fruits, and particularly I found
melons upon the ground in great abundance, and grapes
upon the trees; the vines had spread indeed over the trees,
and the clusters of grapes were just now in their prime, very
ripe and rich: this was a surprising discovery, and I was
exceeding glad of them; but I was warned by my experience
to eat sparingly of them, remembering that, when I was
ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed several of our
Englishmen, who were slaves there, by throwing them into
fluxes1 and fevers: but I found an excellent use for these
grapes, and that was to cure or dry them in the sun, and
keep them as dried grapes or raisins are kept, which I thought
* fluxes: dysentery.
would be, as indeed they were, as wholesome as agreeable
to eat, when no grapes might be to be had.
I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my
habitation, which by the way was the first night, as I might
say, I had lain from home. In the night I took my first
contrivance, and got up into a tree, where I slept well, and
the next morning proceeded upon my discovery, traveling
near four miles, as I might judge by the length of the
valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge of hills on the
south and north side of me.
At the end of this march I came to an opening, where
the country seemed to descend to the west, and a little
spring of fresh water, which issued out of the side of the
hill by me, run the other way, that is, due east; and the
country appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing, every-
thing being in a constant verdure, or flourish of spring, that
it looked like a planted garden.
I descended a little on the side of that delicious vale,
surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixt
with my other afflicting thoughts), to think that this was
all my own, and that I was king and lord of all this country
indefeasibly, and had a right of possession; and if I could
convey it, I might have it in inheritance, as completely as
any lord of a manor in England. I saw here abundance
of cocoa trees, orange, and lemon, and citron trees; but all
wild, and very few bearing any fruit, at least not then: how-
ever, the green limes that I gathered were not only pleasant
to eat, but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice after-
wards with water, which made it very wholesome, and very
cool and refreshing.
I found now I had business enough to gather and carry
home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of grapes as
limes and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season,
which I knew was approaching.
In order to this, I gathered a great heap of grapes in
one place, and a lesser heap in another place, and a great
parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and taking a
few of each with me, I travelled homeward, and resolved
to come again, and bring a bag or sack, or what I could
make to carry the rest home.
Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey, I
came home; so I must now call my tent and my cave:
but before I got thither, the grapes were spoiled; the
richness of the fruits and the weight of the juice having
broken them and bruised them, they were good for little or
nothing; as to the limes, they were good, but I could bring
but a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having made
me two small bags to bring home my harvest: but I was
surprised when, coming to my heap of grapes, which were
so rich and fine when I gathered them, I found them all
spread about, trod to pieces, and dragged about, some here,
some there, and abundance eaten and devoured: by this
I concluded there were some wild creatures thereabouts,
which had done this; but what they were I knew not.
However, as I found that there was no laying them up
on heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, but that
one way they would be destroyed, and the other way they
would be crushed with their own weight, I took another
course; for I gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and hung
them up upon the out-branches of the trees, that they might
cure and dry in the sun; and as for the limes and lemons, I
carried as many back as I could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, I contemplated
with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and the
pleasantness of the situation, the security from storms on that
side the water, and the wood, and concluded that I had
pitched upon a place to fix my abode which was by far the
worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I began to con-
sider of removing my habitation, and to look out for a place
equally safe as where I now was situate, if possible, in that
pleasant, fruitful part of the island.
This thought run long in my head, and I was exceeding
fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempting
me; but when I came to a nearer view of it, and to consider
that I was now by the seaside, where it was at least possible
that something might happen to my advantage, and, by the
same ill fate that brought me hither, might bring some other
unhappy wretches to the same place; and though it was scarce
probable that any such thing should ever happen, yet to enclose
myself among the hills and woods in the centre of the island
was to anticipate my bondage, and to render such an affair
not only improbable, but impossible; and that therefore I
ought not by any means to remove.
However, I was so enamoured of this place that I spent
much of my time there for the whole remaining part of the
month of July; and though upon second thoughts I resolved,
as above, not to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a
bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a strong fence,
being a double hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked,
and filled between with brushwood; and here I lay very
secure, sometimes two or three nights together, always going
over it with a ladder, as before; so that I fancied now I had
my country house and my sea-coast house: and this work
took me up to the beginning of August.
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy
my labor, but the rains came on, and made me stick close to
my first habitation; for though I had made me a tent like
the other, with a piece of a sail, and spread it very well, yet
I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a
cave behind me to retreat into when the rains were extraor-
dinary. *
About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished
my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 3rd of August,
I found the grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and
indeed were excellent good raisins of the sun; so I began to
take them down from the trees, and it was very happy that I
did so; for the rains which followed would have spoiled
them, and I had lost the best part of my winter food; for I
had above two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner
had I taken them all down, and carried most of them home
to my cave, but it began to rain; and from hence, which
was the 14th of August, it rained more or less every day
till the middle of October, and sometimes so violently that I
could not stir out of my cave for several days.
In this season I was much surprised with the increase
of my family; I had been concerned for the loss of one of
my cats, who run away from me, or, as I thought, had been
dead, and I heard no more tale or tidings of her, till, to my
astonishment, she came home about the end of August, with
three kittens; this was the more strange to me, because,
though I had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my gun,
yet I thought it was a quite differing kind from our European
cats; yet the young cats were the same kind of house breed
like the old one; and both my cats being females, I thought
it very strange: but from these three cats I afterwards came
to be so pestered with cats, that I was forced to kill them
like vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive them from my house
as much as possible.
From the fourteenth of August to the twenty-sixth, inces-
sant rain, so that I could not stir, and was now very careful
not to be much wet. In this confinement I began to be
straitened for food, but venturing out twice, I one day killed
a goat, and the last day, which was the 26th, found a very
large tortoise, which was a treat to me, and my food was
regulated thus: I eat a bunch of raisins for my breakfast, a
piece of the goat's flesh, or of the turtle, for my dinner,
broiled (for, to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil
or stew anything), and two or three of the turtle's eggs for
my supper.
During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and
by degrees worked it on towards one side, till I came to the
outside of the hill, and made a door or way out, which
came beyond my fence or wall, and so I came in and out
this way; but I was not perfectly easy at lying so open; for,
as I had managed myself before, I was in a perfect enclosure,
whereas now I thought I lay exposed, and open for anything
to come in upon me; and yet I could not perceive that there
was any living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I had
yet seen upon the island being a goat.
September the thirtieth, I was now come to the unhappy
anniversary of my landing. I cast up the notches on my
post, and found I had been on shore three hundred and sixty-
five days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, setting it apart
to religious exercise, prostrating myself on the ground with
the most serious humiliation, confessing my sins to God,
acknowledging His righteous judgments upon me, and praying
to Him to have mercy on me, through Jesus Christ; and hav-
ing not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till
the going down of the sun, I then eat a biscuit-cake and a bunch
of grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it.
I had all this time observed no Sabbath day; for as at
first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had after
some time omitted to distinguish the weeks by making a
longer notch than ordinary for the Sabbath day, and so did
not really know what any of the days were; but now having
cast up the days, as above, I found I had been there a year;
so I divided it into weeks, and set apart every seventh day
for a Sabbath; though I found at the end of my account I
had lost a day or two in my reckoning.
A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so I
contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to write down
only the most remarkable events of my life, without continu-
ing a daily memorandum of other things.
•
The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear
regular to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide
for them accordingly. But I bought all my experience before
I had it, and this I am going to relate was one of the most
discouraging experiments that I made at all. I have men-
tioned that I had saved the few ears of barley and rice
which I had so surprisingly found spring up, as I thought,
of themselves, and believe there was about thirty stalks of
rice, and about twenty of barley; and now I thought it a
proper time to sow it after the rains, the sun being in its
southern position, going from me.
Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground as well as I
could with my wooden spade, and dividing it into two parts,
I sowed my grain; but as I was sowing, it casually occurred
to my thoughts that I would not sow it all at first, because I
did not know when was the proper time for it; so I sowed
about two thirds of the seed, leaving about a handful of each.
It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so,
for not one grain of that I sowed this time came to any-
thing; for the dry months following, the earth having had
no rain after the seed was sown, it had no moisture to assist
its growth, and never came up at all till the wet season had
come again, and then it grew as if it had been but newly
sown.1
Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily
imagined was by the drought, I sought for a moister piece
of ground to make another trial in, and I dug up a piece
of ground near my new bower, and sowed the rest of my
seed in February, a little before the vernal equinox; and
this having the rainy months of March and April to water
it, sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop;
but having part of the seed left only, and not daring
1 it grew as if it had been but newly sown: This is inconsistent with statements
in this sentence, in the next sentence, and in the sentence on p. 163, beginning
"The ground I had . . . ," all of which are to the effect that the seed first
sown was lost altogether.
to sow all that I had, I had but a small quantity at last,
my whole crop not amounting to above half a peck of each
kind.
But by this experiment I was made master of my busi-
ness, and knew exactly when the proper season was to sow,
and that I might expect two seed times and two harvests
every year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery
which was of use to me afterwards: as soon as the rains
were over, and the weather began to settle, which was about
the month of November, I made a visit up the country to
my bower, where, though I had not been some months, yet I
found all things just as I left them. The circle or double
hedge that I had made was not only firm and entire, but
the stakes which I had cut out of some trees that grew
thereabouts were all shot out and grown with long branches,
as much as a willow tree usually shoots the first year after
lopping its head. I could not tell what tree to call it that
these stakes were cut from. I was surprised, and yet very
well pleased, to see the young trees grow; and I pruned
them, and led them up to grow as much alike as I could-;
and it is scarce credible how beautiful a figure they grew
into in three years; so that though the hedge made a circle
of about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees, for such
I might now call them, soon covered it, and it was a com-
plete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry season.
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and
make me a hedge like this in a semicircle round my wall (I
mean that of my first dwelling), which I did; and placing
the trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight yards'
distance from my first fence, they grew presently, and were
at first a fine cover to my habitation, and afterward served
for a defence also, as I shall observe in its order.
I found now that the seasons of the year might generally
be divided, not into summer and winter as in Europe, but
153
into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were gener-
ally thus:
Half February,
March,
Half April,
Half April,
May,
June,
July,
Half August,
Half August,
September,
Half October,
Half October,
November,
December,
January,
Half February,
Rainy, the sun being then on or near the
equinox.
Dry, the sun being then to the north of
the line.
Rainy, the sun being then come back.
Dry, the sun being then to the south of
the line.
The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter, as
the winds happened to blow; but this was the general
observation I made: after I had found by experience the
ill consequence of being abroad in the rain, I took care to
furnish myself with provisions beforehand, that I might not
be obliged to go out; and I sat within doors as much as
possible during the wet months.
In this time I found much employment (and very suit-
able also to the time), for I found great occasion of many
things which I had no way to furnish myself with but by
hard labor and constant application; particularly, I tried
many ways to make myself a basket, but all the twigs I could
get for the purpose proved so brittle that they would do
nothing. It proved of excellent advantage to me now, that
when I was a boy, I used to take great delight in standing
at a basket-maker's, in the town where my father lived, to
see them make their wicker ware; and being, as boys usually
are, very officious to help, and a great observer of the manner
how they worked those things, and sometimes lending a
hand, I had by this means full knowledge of the methods
of it, that I wanted nothing but the materials; when it came
into my mind that the twigs of that tree from whence I
cut my stakes that grew, might possibly be as tough as the
sallows, and willows, and osiers in England, and I resolved
to try.
Accordingly, the next day I went to my country house,
as I called it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found
them to my purpose as much as I could desire; whereupon
I came the next time prepared with a hatchet to cut down a
quantity, which I soon found, for there was great plenty of
them; these I set up to dry within my circle or hedge, and
when they were fit for use, I carried them to my cave, and
here, during the next season, I employed myself in making,
as well as I could, a great many baskets, both to carry
earth or to carry or lay up anything, as I had occasion; and
though I did not finish them very handsomely, yet I made
them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose; and thus after-
wards I took care never to be without them; and as my
wicker ware decayed, I made more, especially I made strong
deep baskets to place my corn in, instead of sacks, when I
should come to have any quantity of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world
of time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if possible, how
to supply two wants: I had no vessels to hold anything that
was liquid, except two runlets which were almost full of
rum, and some glass bottles, some of the common size, and
others which were case bottles square, for the holding of
waters, spirits, &c. I had not so much as a pot to boil any-
thing, except a great kettle, which I saved out of the ship,
and which was too big for such use as I desired it, viz., to
make broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. The second
thing I would fain have had was a tobacco-pipe1; but it was
impossible to me to make one; however, I found a con-
trivance for that, too, at last.
I employed myself in planting my second rows of stakes
or piles and in this wicker working all the summer or dry
season, when another business took me up more time than
it could be imagined I could spare.
I mentioned before that I had a great mind to see the
whole island, and that I had travelled up the brook, and so
on to where I built my bower, and where I had an opening
quite to the sea on the other side of the island; I now resolved
to travel quite cross to the seashore on that side; so taking
my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of
powder and shot than usual, with two biscuit-cakes and a
great bunch of raisins in my pouch for my store, I began
my journey; when I had passed the vale where my bower
stood, as above, I came within view of the sea to the west,
and it being a very clear day, I fairly, descried land, whether
an island or • continent I could not tell; but it lay very
high, extending from the west to the W. S. W., at a very
great distance; by my guess it could not be less than fifteen
or twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might be,
otherwise than that I knew* it must be part of America, and
as I concluded by all my observations, must be near the
Spanish dominions, and perhaps was all inhabited by savages,
where if I should have landed, I had been in a worse con-
dition than I was now; and therefore I acquiesced in the
dispositions of Providence, which I began now to own and
to believe ordered everything for the best; I say, I quieted
my mind with this, and left afflicting myself with fruitless
wishes of being there.
Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I considered
1 tobacco-tit': Cf. note, p. 194.
that if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly,
one time or other, see some vessel pass or repass one way or
other; but if not, then it was the savage coast between the
Spanish country and Brazils, which are* indeed the worst
of savages; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail
not to murder and devour all the human bodies that fall into
their hands. ...
With these considerations I walked very leisurely for-
ward. I found that side of the island where I now was,
much pleasanter than mine, the open or savanna fields sweet,
adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very fine woods.
I saw abundance of parrots, and fain I would have caught
one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and taught it to
speak to me. I did, after some painstaking, catch a young
parrot, for I knocked it down with a stick, and having
recovered it, I brought it home; but it was some years before
I could make him speak: however, at last I taught him to call
me by my name very familiariy: but the accident that fol-
lowed, though it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its
place. •
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey: I found
in the low grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes,
but they differed greatly from all the other kinds I had met
with, nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, though I killed
several: but I had no need to be venturous; for I had no
want of food, and of that which was very good, too; espe-
cially these three sorts, viz., goats, pigeons, and turtle or
tortoise; which, added to my grapes, Leadenhall Market
could not have furnished a table better than I, in proportion
to the company; and though my case was deplorable enough,
yet I had great cause for thankfulness, and that I was not
driven to any extremities for food, but rather plenty, even to
dainties.
I never travelled in this journey above two miles outright
in a day, or thereabouts; but I took so many turns and
returns to see what discoveries I could make, that I came
weary enough to the place where I resolved to sit down for
all night; and then I either reposed myself in a tree, or sur-
rounded myself with a row of stakes set upright in the
ground, either from one tree to another, or so as no wild
creature could come at me without waking me.
As soon as I came to the seashore, I was surprised to see
that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island;
for here indeed the shore was covered with innumerable
turtles, whereas on the other side I had found but three in
a year and half. Here was also an infinite number of fowls,
of many kinds, some which I had seen, and some which I
had not seen of before, and many of them very good meat,
but such as I knew not the names of, except those called
penguins.
I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very
sparing of my powder and shot, and therefore had more mind
to kill a she goat, if I could, which I could better feed on;
and though there were many goats here more than on my
side the island, yet it was with much more difficulty that
I could come near them, the country being flat and even,
and they saw me much sooner than when I was on the hill.
I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter
than mine, but yet I had not the least inclination to remove;
for as I was fixed in my habitation, it became natural to me,
and I seemed all the while I was here to be as it were upon
a journey, and from home. However, I travelled along the
shore of the sea towards the east1, I suppose about twelve
miles; and then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a
mark, I concluded I would go home again, and that the
next journey I took should be on the other side of the island,
east from my dwelling2, and so round till I came to my post
again; of which in its place.
1 towards the east: i.e.. going east along the north shore.
* east from my dwelling: He would soon have to turn north; cf. note p. 234.
I took another way to come back than that I went, think-
ing I could easily keep all the island so much in my view,
that I could not miss finding my first dwelling by viewing
the country; but I found myself mistaken; for being come
about two or three miles, I found myself descended into a
very large valley, but so surrounded with hills, and those
hills covered with wood, that I could not see which was my
way by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then,
unless I knew very well the position of the sun at that time
of the day.
It happened to my farther misfortune, that the weather
proved hazy for three or four days, while I was in this
valley; and not being able to see the sun, I wandered about
very uncomfortably, and at last was obliged to find out the
seaside, look for my post, and come back the same way I
went; and then by easy journeys I turned homeward, the
weather being exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition,
hatchet, and other things very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized
upon it, and I running in to take hold of it, caught it, and
saved it alive from the dog; I had a great mind to bring it
home if I could; for I had often been musing, whether it
might not be possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a
breed of tame goats, which might supply me when my powder
and shot should be all spent.
I made a collar to this little creature, and with a string
which I made of some rope-yarn, which I always carried
about me, I led him along, though with some difficulty, till
I came to my bower, and there I enclosed him and left him;
for I was very impatient to be at home, from whence I had
been absent above a month.
I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me, to come
into my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock bed: this
little wandering journey, without settled place of abode, had
been so unpleasant to me, that my own house, as I called it
to myself, was a perfect settlement to me, compared to that;
and it rendered everything about me so comfortable, that I
resolved I would never go a great way from it again, while
it should be my lot to stay on the island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself
after my long journey; during which, most of the time was
taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for my Poll,
who began now to be a mere domestic1, and to be mighty
well acquainted with me. Then I began to think of the
poor kid, which I had penned in within my little circle, and
resolved to go and fetch it home, or give it some food;
accordingly I went, and found it where I left it; for indeed
it could not get out, but almost* starved for want of food:
I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches of such shrubs
as I could find, and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied
it as I did before, to lead it away; but it was so tame with
being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it: for it
followed me like a dog; and as I continually fed it, the
creature became so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it
became from that time one of my domestics2 also, and would
never leave me afterwards.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come,
and I kept the 30th of Sept. in the same solemn manner as
before, being the anniversary of my landing on the island,
having now been there two years, and no more prospect of
being delivered than the first day I came there. I spent the
whole day in humble and thankful acknowledgments of the
many wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was
attended with, and without which it might have been infinitely
more miserable. I gave humble and hearty thanks that God
had been pleased to discover to me even that it was possible
I might be more happy in this solitary condition, than I
should have been in a liberty of society, and in all the pleas-
1 a mere domestic: i.e., completely domesticated. -
2 my domestics: my domestic animals.
I2<
Robinson Crusoe
covered over with foam and froth, the shore was cove
with the breach of the water, the trees were torn up by
roots, and a terrible storm it was: and this held about tl
hours, and then began to abate, and in two hours ram
was stark calm, and began to rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground very much t
fied and dejected, when on a sudden it came into my thot
that these winds and rain being the consequences o
earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and over
I might venture into my cave.again: with this thoug
spirits began to revive, and the rain also helping I
suade me, I went in and sat down in my tent, but t
was so violent that my tent was ready to be beatf
with it, and I was forced to go into my cave, tho
much afraid and uneasy for fear it should fall on
This violent rain forced me to a new work, i
a hole through my new fortification like a sink
water go out, which would else have drown
After I had been in my cave some time, and
more shocks of the earthquake follow, I beg
composed; and now to support my spiritc
wanted it very much, I went to my little
small sup of rum, which, however, I di< ^p.
very sparingly, knowing I could have
was gone.
It continued raining all that n;
the next day, so that I could not
being more composed, I began t
do, concluding that if the isla'
quakes, there would be no
must consider of building
which I might surrour
and so make myself
concluded if I sti-
time or other, h
I2<
t r =
l-
- -I
.—r

With
the place wiitrf r bk. nr
preopice oitbf jiiL.jK vc
would ccnamr ol ares- t.
days, bong Of MttaauAr <-
and how u
The ita: <r.
never skjc k i
abroad
when I ii
order :i
danger. iat>
In ::- m --
a vast iaiK
contemec n nn »
a car.: r- r- -.
so with tag
resolved age] «^
me a wal wb ifcj
and « Bt ~-
would **br*.
tittoienB»f».

anoecikBco », the fi:-
ole and - L-,
.
upon ::-
a win)
mercies v,-
With
»e. I gave
eased to discos
je more ha
ave been ir

- oegan n"i
-
With
e how
th fowls of I
were watching till
ures of the world. That He could fully make up to me
the deficiencies of my solitary state, and the want of human
society, by His presence, and the communications of His
grace to my soul, supporting, comforting, and encouraging
me to depend upon His providence here, and hope for His
eternal presence hereafter.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more
happy this life I now led was, with all its miserable circum-
stances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all
the past part of my days; and now I changed both my sorrows
and my joys; my very desires altered, my affections changed
their gusts1, and my delights were perfectly new from what
they were at my first coming, or indeed for the two years past.
Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or for
viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition
would break out upon me on a sudden, and my very heart
would die within me, to think of the woods, the mountains,
the deserts I was in; and how I was a prisoner1' locked up
with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an unin-
habited wilderness, without redemption: in the midst of the
greatest composures of my mind, this would break out upon
me like a storm, and make me wring my hands, and weep
like a child: sometimes it would take me in the middle of
my work, and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and
look upon the ground for an hour or two together; and this
was still worse to me; for if I could burst out into tears,
or vent myself by words, it would go off, and the grief having
exhausted itself would abate.
But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts;
I daily read the Word of God, and applied all the comforts of
it to my present state: one morning, being very sad, I opened
the Bible upon these words, "I will never, never leave thee,
nor forsake thee2." Immediately it occurred that these words
1 affections changed their gusts: inclinations changed their tastes.
> / will never, etc.: Hebrews xiii. 5.
were to me; why else should they be directed in such a
manner, just at the moment when I was mourning over my
condition, as one forsaken of God and man? "Well, then,"
said I, "if God does not forsake me, of what ill consequence
can it be, or what matters it, though the world should all
forsake me, seeing on the other hand, if I had all the world,
and should lose the favor and blessing of God, there would
be no comparison in the loss?"
From this moment I began to conclude in my mind, that
it was possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken
solitary condition, than it was probable I should ever have
been in any other particular state in the world; and with
this thought I was going to give thanks to God for bringing
me to this place.
I know not what it was, but something shocked my mind
at that thought, and I durst not speak the words. "How
canst thou be such a hypocrite," said I, even audibly, "to
pretend to be thankful for a condition, which, however thou
mayest endeavor to be contented with, thou would'st rather
pray heartily to be delivered from?" So I stopped there:
but though I could not say I thanked God for being there,
yet I sincerely gave thanks to God for opening my eyes, by
whatever afflicting providences, to see the former condition
of my life, and to mourn for my wickedness, and repent.
I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul within
me blessed God for directing my friend in England, with-
out any order of mine, to pack it up among my goods, and
for assisting me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of
the ship.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third
year; and though I have not given the reader the trouble of
so particular account of my works this year as the first, yet
in general it may be observed that I was very seldom idle,
but having regularly divided my time according to the sev-
eral daily employments that were before me, such as, first,
my duty to God, and the reading the Scriptures, which I
constantly set apart some time for thrice every day; secondly,
the going abroad with my gun for food, which generally
took me up three hours in every morning, when it did not
rain; thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking
what I had killed or catched for my supply: these took up
great part of the day; also, it is to be considered that the
middle of the day, when the sun was in the zenith, the
violence of the heat was too great to stir out; so that about
four hours in the evening was all the time I could be sup-
posed to work in, with this exception, that sometimes I
changed my hours of hunting and working, and went to
work in the morning and abroad with my gun in the after-
noon.
To this short time allowed for labor, I desire may be
added the exceeding laboriousness of my work; the many
hours which for want of tools, want of help, and want of
skill, everything I did took up out of my time: for example,
I was full two and forty days making me a board for a long
shelf, which I wanted in my cave; whereas two sawyers with
their tools and a saw-pit would have cut six of them out of
the same tree in half a day.
My case was this: it was to be a large tree which was
to be cut down, because my board was to be a broad one.
This tree I was three days a-cutting down, and two more
cutting off the boughs, and reducing it to a log, or piece
of timber. With inexpressible hacking and hewing I reduced
both the sides of it into chips, till it begun to be light enough
to move; then I turned it, and made one side of it smooth
and flat as a board from end to end; then turning that side
downward, cut the other side, till I brought the plank to
be about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any
one may judge the labor of my hands in such a piece of
work; but labor and patience carried me through that and
many other things: I only observe this in particular, to show
the reason why so much of my time went away with so
little work, viz., that what might be a little to be done with
help and tools, was a vast labor, and required a prodigious
time to do alone, and by hand.
But notwithstanding this, with patience and labor I went
through many things, and indeed everything that my cir-
cumstances made necessary to me to do, as will appear by
what follows.
I was now, in the months of November and December,
expecting my crop of, barley and rice. The ground I had
manured or dug up for them was not great; for, as I
observed, my seed of each was not above the quantity of
half a peck, for I had lost one whole crop by sowing in the
dry season i but now my crop promised very well, when on a
sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all again by
enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep
from it; as first, the goats, and wild creatures which I called
hares, who, tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night
and day, as soon as it came up, and eat it so close, that it
could get no time to shoot up into stalk.
This I saw no remedy for, but by making an enclosure
about it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of
toil; and the more, because it required speed. However, as
my arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I got it
totally well fenced in about three weeks' time; and shooting
some of the creatures in the daytime, I set my dog to guard
it in the night, tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he
would stand and bark all night long; so in a little time the
enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong and
well, and began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in
the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me now, when
it was in the ear; for going along by the place to see how
it throve, I saw my little crop surrounded with fowls of I
know not how many sorts, who stood as it were watching till
I should be gone: I immediately let fly among them, for I
always had my gun with me. I had no sooner shot but
there rose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen
at all, from among the corn itself.
This touched me sensibly1, for I foresaw that in a few
days they would devour all my hopes, that I should be
starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all, and what
to do I could not tell: however, I resolved not to lose my
corn, if possible, though I should watch it night and day. In
the first place, I went among it to see what damage was
already done, and found they had spoiled a good deal of it,
but that as it was yet too green for them, the loss was not
so great but that the remainder was like to be a good crop,
if it could be saved.
I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away I
could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about
me, as if they only waited till I was gone away, and the
event proved it to be so; for as I walked off as if I was gone,
I was no sooner out of their sight, but they dropt down one
by one into the corn again. I was so provoked that I could
not have patience to stay till more came on, knowing that
every grain that they eat now was, as it might be said, a
peck-loaf to me in the consequence2; but coming up to the
hedge, I fired again, and killed three of them. This was what
I wished for; so I took them up, and served them as we
serve notorious thieves in England, viz., hanged them in
chains for a terror to others; it is impossible to imagine,
almost, that this should have such an effect as it had, for
the fowls would not only not come at the corn, but in short
they forsook all that part of the island, and I could never see a
bird near the phice as long as my scarecrows hung there.
This I was very glad of, you may be sure, and about the
latter end of December, which was our second harvest of
the year, I reaped my crop.
1 sensibly: appreciably.
2 in the consequence: in its results.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a* sickle to cut it
down, and all I could do was to make one as well as I
could out of one of the broadswords or cutlasses, which I
saved among the arms out of the ship. However, as my
first crop was but small, I had no great difficulty to cut it
down; in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut nothing off
but the ears, and carried it away in a great basket which
I had made, and so rubbed it out with my hands; and at the
end of all my harvesting, I found that out of my half peck
of seed I had near two bushels of rice, and above two bushels
and half of barley, that is to say, by my guess, for I had
no measure at that time.
However, this was a great encouragement to me, and I
foresaw that in time it would please God to supply me with
bread: and yet here I was perplexed again, for I neither
knew how to grind or make meal of my corn, or indeed how
to clean it and part it; nor if made into meal, how to make
bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I knew not how to
bake it; these things being added to my desire of having
a good quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply,
I resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve it
all for seed against the next season, and in the mean time
to employ all my study and hours of working to accomplish
this great work of providing myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread;
'tis a little wonderful, and what I believe few people have
thought much upon, viz., the strange multitude of little
things necessary in the providing, producing, curing, dressing,
making, and finishing this one article of bread.
I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature1, found this
to* my daily discouragement, and was made more and more
sensible of it every hour, even after I had got the first hand-
ful of seed-corn, which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly,
and indeed to a surprise.
1 mere state of nature: i.e., without any of the conveniences of civilization.
First, I had no plough to turn up the earth, no spade
or shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered, by making a
wooden spade, as I observed before; but this did my work in
but a wooden manner, and though it cost me a great many
days to make it, yet for want of iron it not only wore out
the sooner, but made my work the harder, and made it be
performed much worse.
However, this I bore with and was content to work it
out with patience, and bear with the badness of the per-
formance. When the corn was sowed, I had no harrow, but
was forced to go over it myself and drag a great heavy
bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be called,
rather than rake or harrow it.
When it was growing, and grown, I have observed
already how many things I wanted1, to fence it, secure it,
mow or reap it, cure and carry it home, thrash, part it from
the chaff, and save it. Then I wanted a mill to grind it,
sieves to dress it, yeast and salt2 to make it into bread, and
an oven to bake it; and yet all these things I did without,
as shall be observed; and yet the corn was an inestimable
comfort and advantage to me too. All this, as I said, made
everything laborious and tedious to me, but that there was
no help for; neither was my time so much loss to me, because,
as I had divided it, a certain part of it was every day
appointed to these works; and as I resolved to use none of
the corn for bread till I had a greater quantity by me, I had
the next six months to apply myself wholly by labor and
invention to furnish myself with utensils proper for the
performing all the operations necessary for the making the
corn, when I had it, fit for my use.
But first, I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed
enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this,
I had a week's work at least to make me a spade, which when
1 wanted: lacked; as before.
iI wanted . . . salt: Yet on p. 267, he tries to get Friday to eat food
with salt on it.
it was done was but a sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and
required double labor to work with it; however, I went
through that, and sowed my seed in two large flat pieces
of ground, as near my house as I could find them to my mind,
and fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which
were all cut of that wood which I had set before, and knew
it would grow; so that in one year's time I knew I should
have a quick or living hedge, that would want but little
repair. This work was not so little as to take me up less
than three months, because great part of that time was of
the wet season, when I could not go abroad.
Within doors, that is, when it rained and I could not
go out, I found employment on the following occasions1;
always observing2, that all the while I was at work I diverted
myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching him to speak,
and I quickly learned him to know his own name, and at
last to speak it out pretty loud, "Poll," which was the first
word I ever heard spoken in the island by any mouth but my
own. This therefore was not my work, but an assistant
to my work, for now, as I said, I had a great employment
upon my hands, as follows, viz., I had long studied, by some
means or other, to make myself some earthen vessels, which
indeed I wanted sorely, but knew not where to come at
them: however, considering the heat of the climate, I did not
doubt but if I could find out any such clay, I might botch
up some such pot, as might, being dried in the sun, be hard
enough and strong enough to bear handling, and to hold any-
thing that was dry, and required to be kept so; and as
this was necessary in the preparing corn, meal, &c, which
was the thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as large
as I could, and fit only to stand like jars, to hold what
should be put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me,
to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste;
1 occasions: necessary tasks; cf. "I had occasion" to do so and so.
2 always observing: i.e., and you are to bear in mind.
what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made; how many of them
fell in, and how many fell out, the clay not being stiff enough
to bear its own weight; how many cracked by the over-
violent heat of the sun, being set out too hastily; and how
many fell in pieces with only removing, as well before as
after they were dried; and in a word, how, after having
labored hard to find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring
it home and work it, I could not make above two large
earthen ugly things, I cannot call them jars, in about two
months' labor.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard,
I lifted them very gently up, and set them down again in
two great wicker baskets, which I had made on purpose for
them, that they might not break, and as between the pot
and the basket there was a little room to spare, I stuffed
it full of the rice and barley straw, and these two pots
being to stand always dry, I thought would hold my dry
corn, and perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better success;
such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins,
and any things my hand turned to; and the heat of the sun
baked them strangely hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which was to get
an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the fire,
which none of these could do. It happened after some time,
making a pretty large fire for cooking my meat, when I went
to put it out after I had done with it, I found a broken
piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire, burnt as
hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised
to see it, and said to myself, that certainly they might be
made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.
This set me to studying how to order my fire, so as
to make it burn me some pots. I had no notion of a kiln,
such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them with lead,
though I had some lead to do it with; but I placed three
large pipkins, and two or three pots, in a pile one upon
another, and placed my firewood all round it with a great
heap of embers under them; I plied the fire with fresh fuel
round the outside and upon the top, till I saw the pots in
the inside red hot quite through, and observed that they did
not crack at all; when I saw them clear red, I let them
stand in that heat about five or six hours, till I found
one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or run, for
the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the vio-
lence of the heat, and would have run into glass if I had
gone on; so I slacked my fire gradually till the pots began
to abate of the red color, and watching them all night, that
I might not let the fire abate too fast, in the morning I
had three very good, I will not say handsome, pipkins, and
two other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be desired,
and one of them perfectly glazed with the running of
the sand.
After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no
sort of earthenware for my use; but I must needs say, as
to the shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as any
one may suppose, when I had no way of making them but
as the children make dirt pies, or as a woman would make
pies that never learned to raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal
to mine, when I found I had made an earthen pot that would
bear the fire; and I had hardly patience to stay till they
were cold, before I set one upon the fire again, with some
water in it, to boil me some meat, which it did admirably
well; and with a piece of a kid I made some very good
broth, though I wanted oatmeal and several other ingredi-
ents requisite to make it so good as I would have had it been.
My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp
or beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no thought
at arriving to that perfection of art with one pair of hands.
To supply this want I was at a great loss; for of all trades
in the world I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-
cutter, as for any whatever; neither had I any tools to go
about it with. I spent many a day to find out a great stone
big enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and
could find none at all, except what was in the solid rock,
and which I had no way to dig or cut out; nor indeed were
the rocks in the island of hardness sufficient, but were all
of a sandy, crumbling stone, which would neither bear the
weight of a heavy pestle, or would break the corn without
filling it with sand; so, after a great deal of time lost in
searching for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look
out for a great block of hard wood, which I found indeed
much easier; and getting one as big as I had strength to
stir, I rounded it, and formed it in the outside with my axe
and hatchet, and then, with the help of fire and infinite
labor, made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in Brazil
make their canoes. After this, I made a great heavy pestle
or beater, of the wood called the iron-wood, and this I
prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of corn,
when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, my
corn into meal, to make my bread.
My next diffculty was to make a sieve, or searset, to
dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and the husk,
without which I did not see it possible I could have any
bread. This was a most difficult thing, so much as but to
think on; for to be sure I had nothing like the necessary
thing to make it; I mean fine thin canvas, or stuff, to searse*
the meal through. And here I wae at a full stop for many
months, nor did I really know what to do; linen I had none
left, but what was mere rags; I had goats' hair, but neither
knew I how to weave it or spin it; and had I known how,
here was no tools to work it with; all the remedy that I
found for this was, that at last I did remember I had among
the seamen's clothes which were saved out of the ship, some
neckcloths of calico, or muslin; and with some pieces of
these I made three small sieves, but proper enough for the
work; and thus I made shift for some years; how I did
afterwards1 I shall show in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered,
and how I should make bread when I came to have corn;
for, first, I had no yeast; as to that part, as there was no
supplying the want, so I did not concern myself much about
it; but for an oven I was indeed in great pain; at length
I found out an experiment for that also, which was this; I
made some earthen vessels very broad, but not deep; that
is to say, about two foot diameter, and not above nine inches
deep; these I burnt in the fire, as I had done the other2, and
laid them by; and when I wanted to bake, I made a great
fire upon my hearth, which I had paved with some square
tiles of my own making, and burning also; but I should not
call them square. *
When the firewood was burnt pretty much into embers,
or live coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so
as to cover it all over, and there I let them lie, till the
hearth was very hot; then sweeping away all the embers,
I set down my loaf, or loaves, and whelming3 down the
earthen pot upon them, drew the embers all round the out-
side of the pot, to keep in and add to the heat; and thus,
as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my barley
loaves, and became in little time a mere4 pastry-cook into
the bargain; for I made myself several cakes of the rice, and
puddings; indeed I made no pies, neither had I anything
to put into them, supposing I had, except the flesh either of
fowls or goats.
It need not be wondered at, if all these things took me
up most part of the third year of my abode here; for it is
1 how I did afterwards: Apparently he forgets the promise.
2 the other: Cf. notes pp. 195, 329.
'whelming: suggests rapidity of movement and physical exertion. The pot
was put over them bottom upwards.
* mere: complete, perfect; cf. p. 159.
to be observed, that in the intervals of these things I had
my new harvest and husbandry to manage; for I reaped my
corn in its season, and carried it home as well as I could,
and laid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had
time to rub it out; for I had no floor to thrash it on, or
instrument to thrash it with.
And now indeed my stock of corn increasing, I really
wanted to build my barns bigger. I wanted a place to lay
it up in; for the increase of the corn now yielded me
so much, that I had of the barley about twenty bushels,
and of the rice as much, or more; insomuch that now I
resolved to begin to use it freely; for my bread had been
quite gone a great while; also I resolved to see what
quantity would be sufficient for me a whole year, and to
sow but once a year.
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley
and rice was much more than I could consume in a year;
so I resolved to sow just the same quantity every year that
I sowed the last, in hopes that such a quantity would fully
provide me with bread, &c.
All the while these things were doing, you may be
sure my thoughts run many times upon the prospect of
land which I had seen from the other side of the island,
and I was not without secret wishes that I were on
shore there, fancying the seeing the mainland, and in an
inhabited country1*, I might find some way or other to
convey myself farther, and perhaps at last find some means
of escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers
of such a condition, and how I might fall into the hands of
savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to think
far worse than the lions and tigers of Africa. That if I once
came into their power, I should run a hazard more than a
_ 1 fancying the seeing the mainland, etc.: Either the text is corrupt or Defoe has
written a badly confused sentence. It apparently means "fancying that I was
seeing the mainland, and that being in an inhabited country, I might," etc.
thousand to one of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten;
for I had heard that the people of the Caribbean coasts were
cannibals, or man-eaters; and I knew by the latitude that
I could not be far off from that shore. That, suppose they
were not cannibals, yet that they might kill me, as many
Europeans who had fallen into their hands had been served,
even when they had been ten or twenty together; much more
I, that was but one, and could make little or no defence:
all these things, I say, which I ought to have considered well
of, and did cast up in my thoughts afterwards, yet took
up none of my apprehensions at first; but my head run
mightily upon the thought of getting over to the shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with
the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a
thousand miles on the coast of Africk; but this was in vain.
Then I thought I would go and look at our ship's boat,
which, as I have said, was blown up upon the shore a great
way in the storm, when we were first cast away. She lay
almost where she did at first, but not quite; and was turned
by the force of the waves and the winds almost bottom
upward against a high ridge of beachy rough sand; but no
water about^her as before.
If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have
launched her into the water, the boat would have done well
enough, and I might have gone back into the Brazils with
her easily enough; but I might have foreseen that I could no
more turn her and set her upright upon her bottom than
I could remove the island: however, I went to the woods,
and cut levers and rollers, and brought them to the boat,
resolved to try what I could do, suggesting to myself that
if I Could but turn her down, I might easily repair the
damage she had received, and she would be a very good
boat, and I might go to sea in her very easily.
I spared no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless toil,
and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it; at last,
finding it impossible to heave it up with my little strength,
I fell to digging away the sand, to undermine it, and so to
make it fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and
guide it right in the fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up
again, or to get under it, much less to move it forward
towards the water; so I was forced to give it over; and yet,
though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my desire to
venture over for the main increased, rather than decreased,
as the means for it seemed impossible.
This at length put me upon thinking whether it was not
possible to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the
natives of those climates make, even without tools, or, as I
might say, without hands, viz., of the trunk of a great tree.
This I not only thought possible, but easy, and pleased myself
extremely with the thoughts of making it, and with my
having much more convenience for it than any of the Negroes
or Indians; but not at all considering the particular incon-
veniences which I lay under, more than the Indians did,
viz., want of hands to move it, when it was made, into the
water, a difficulty much harder for me to surmount than all
the consequences of want of tools could be to them; for
what was it to me, that when I had chosen a vast tree in the
woods, I might with much trouble cut it down, if after I
might be able with my tools to hew and dub the outside
into the proper shape of a boat, and burn or cut out the
inside to make it hollow, so to make a boat of it: if, after
all this, I must leave it just there where I found it, and was
not able to launch it into the water?
One would have thought I could not have had the least
reflection upon my mind of my circumstance, while I was
making this boat; but I should have immediately thought
how I should get it into the sea; but my thoughts were so
intent upon my voyage over the sea in it, that I never once
considered how I should get it off of the land; and it was
really in its own nature more easy for me to guide it over
forty-five miles of sea, than about forty-five fathom of land,
where it lay, to set it afloat in the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that
ever man did who had any of his senses awake. I pleased
myself with the design, without determining whether I was
ever able to undertake it; not but that the difficulty of
launching my boat came often into my head; but I put a
stop to my own inquiries into it, by this foolish answer
which I gave myself. "Let's first make it; I'll warrant I'll
find some way or other to get it along, when 't is done."
This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness
of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled a cedar-
tree: I question much whether Solomon ever had such a one
for the building of the Temple at Jerusalem. It was five
foot ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump,
and four foot eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-
two foot, after which it lessened for a while, and then parted
into branches: it was not without infinite labor that I felled
this tree: I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it at
the bottom. I was fourteen more getting the branches and
limbs and the vast spreading head of it cut off, which I
hacked and hewed through with axe and hatchet, and inex-
pressible labor; after this, it cost me a month to shape it, and
dub it to a proportion, and to something like the bottom
of a boat, that it might swim upright as it ought to do. It
cost me near three months more to clear the inside, and work
it so as to make an exact boat of it: this I did indeed without
fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labor,
till I had brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and
big enough to have carried six and twenty men, and conse-
quently big enough to have carried me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was extremely
delighted with it. The boat was really much bigger than
I ever saw a canoe or periagua, that was made of one tree, in
my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure;
and there remained nothing but to get it into the water;
and had I gotten it into the water, I make no question but I
should have began the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely
to be performed, that ever was undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed me;
though they cost me infinite labor too. It lay about one
hundred yards from the water, and not more: but the first
inconvenience was, it was uphill towards the creek; well,
to take away this discouragement, I resolved to dig into the
surface of the earth, and so make a declivity: this I begun,
and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains (but who grutches1
pains, that have their deliverance in view?) : but when this
was worked through, and this difficulty managed, it was
still much at one; for I could no more stir the canoe than
I could the other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to
cut a dock or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing
I could not bring the canoe down to the water; well, I
began this work, and when I began to enter into it, and
calculate how deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the
stuff to be thrown out, I found that, by the number of
hands I had, being none but my own, it must have been ten
or twelve years before I should have gone through with it;
for the shore lay high, so that at the upper end it must have
been at least twenty foot deep; so at length, though with
great reluctancy, I gave this attempt over also.
This grieved me heartily, and now I saw, though too
late, the folly of beginning a work before we count the cost,
and before we judge rightly of our own strength to go
through with it.
In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth year in
this place, and kept my anniversary with the same devotion,
and with as much comfort as ever before; for by a constant
1 grutches: grudges. Historically this is the earlier form; cf. grouch; also cf.
slutch, sludge.
study and serious application of the Word of God, and by
the assistance of His grace, I gained a different knowledge
from what I had before. I entertained different notions of
things. I looked now upon the world as a thing remote,
which I had nothing to do with, no expectation from, and
indeed no desires about: in a word, I had nothing indeed to
do with it, nor was ever like to have; so I thought it looked
as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz., as a place
I had lived in, but was come out of it; and well might I
say, as Father Abraham to Dives, "Between me and thee is
a great gulf fixed1."
In the first place, I was removed from all the wickedness
of the world here. I had neither the lust of the flesh, the
lust of the eye, or the pride of life. I had nothing to covet,
for I had all that I was now capable of enjoying; I was
lord of the whole manor; or, if I pleased, I might call myself
king or emperor over the whole country which I had posses-
sion of. There were no rivals. I had no competitor, none
to dispute sovereignty or command with me. I might have
raised ship-loadings of corn; but I had no use for it; so I let
as little grow as I thought enough for my occasion. I had tor-
toise or turtles enough; but now and then one, was as much
as I could put to any use. I had timber enough to have
built a fleet of ships. I had grapes enough to have made
wine, or to have cured into raisins, to have loaded that fleet
when they had been built.
But all I could make use of was all that was valuable.
I had enough to eat and to supply my wants, and what was
all the rest to me? If I killed more flesh than I could eat,
the dog must eat it, or the vermin. If I sowed more corn
than I could eat, it must be spoiled. The trees that I cut
down were lying to rot on the ground. I could make no
more use of them than for fuel; and that I had no occasion
for but to dress my food.
i Between me and thee, etc.: Inexact quotation of Luke xvi. 26.
In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated
to me1, upon just reflection, that all the good things of this
world are no farther good to us than they are for our use;
and that whatever we may heap up indeed to give others,
we enjoy just as much as we can use, and no more. The
most covetous griping miser in the world would have been
cured of the vice of covetousness, if he had been in my case;
for I possessed infinitely more than I knew what to do with.
I had no room for desire, except it was of things which I had
not, and they were but trifles, though indeed of great use
to me. I had, as I hinted before, a parcel of money, as well
gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas! There
the nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay; I had no manner of busi-
ness for it; and I often thought with myself, that I would
have given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or
for a hand-mill to grind my corn; nay, I would have given
it all for sixpenny-worth of turnip and carrot seed out of
England, or for a handful of pease and beans, and a bottle
of ink: as it was, I had not the least advantage by it, or
benefit from it; but there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy
with the damp of the cave in the wet season; and if I had had
the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the same case;
and they had been of no manner of value to me, because
of no use.
I had now brought my state of life to be much easier
in itself than it was at first, and much easier to my mind,
as well as to my body. I frequently sat down to my meat
with thankfulness, and admired2 the hand of God's provi-
dence, which had thus spread my table in the wilderness. I
learned to look more upon the bright side of my condition,
and less upon the dark side, and to consider what I enjoyed
rather than what I wanted; and this gave me sometimes such
secret comforts, that I cannot express them; and which I
1 dictated to me: forced me to recognize.
a admired: wondered at.
take notice of here, to put those discontented people in mind
of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God has given
them, because they see and covet something that He has not
given them: all our discontents about what we want appeared
to me to spring from the want of thankfulness for what
we have.
Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubtless
would be so to any one that should fall into such distress
as mine was; and this was, to compare my present condition
with what I at first expected it should be; nay, with what it
would certainly have been, if the good providence of God had
not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up nearer to the
shore, where I not only could come at her, but could bring
what I got out of her to the shore, for my relief and comfort;
without which, I had wanted for tools to work, weapons for
defence, or gunpowder and shot for getting my food.
I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in represent-
ing to myself, in the most lively colors, how I must have
acted, if I had got nothing out of the ship. How I could
not have so much as got any food, except fish and turtles;
and that, as it was long before I found any of them, I must
have perished first. That I should have lived, if I had not
perished, like a mere savage. That if I had killed a goat or
a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way to flea or open
them, or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels, or to
cut it up; but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with
my claws like a beast.
These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness
of Providence to me, and very thankful for my present condi-
tion, with all its hardships and misfortunes: and this part
also I cannot but recommend to the reflection of those who
are apt in their misery to say, "Is any affliction like mine?"
Let them consider how much worse the cases of some people
are, and their case might have been, if Providence had
thought fit.
I had another reflection which assisted me also to comfort
my mind with hopes; and this was, comparing my present
condition with what I had deserved, and had therefore reason
to expect from the'hand of Providence. I had lived a dread-
ful life, perfectly destitute of the knowledge and fear of
God. I had been well instructed by father and mother;
neither had they been wanting to me in their early endeavors
to infuse a religious awe- of God into my mind, a sense of
my duty, and of what the nature and end of my being
required of me. But, alas! falling early into the seafaring
life, which of all the lives is the most destitute of the fear of
God, though His terrors are always before them; I say,
falling early into the seafaring life, and into seafaring com-
pany, all that little sense of religion which I had entertained
was laughed out of me by my messmates; by a hardened
despising of dangers, and the views of death, which grew
habitual to me; by my long absence from all manner of
opportunities to converse1 with anything but what was like
myself, or to hear anything that was good, or tended
towards it.
So void was I of everything that was good, or of the
least sense of what I was, or was to be, that, in the greatest
deliverances I enjoyed, such as my escape from Sallee, my
being taken up by the Portuguese master of the ship, my
being planted so well in the Brazils, my receiving the cargo
from England, and the like, I never had once the word,
"Thank God!" so much as on my mind, or in my mouth;
nor in the greatest distress had I so much as a thought to
pray to Him, or so much as to say, "Lord, have mercy upon
me!" no, nor to mention the name of God, unless it was
to swear by and blaspheme it.
I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many months,
ss I have already observed, on the account of my wicked
and hardened life past; and when I looked about me, and
1 converse: have to do with; not merely "have conversation."
considered what particular providences had attended me
since my coming into this place, and how God had dealt
bountifully with me; had not only punished me less than my
iniquity had deserved, but had so plentifully provided for
me: this gave me great hopes that my repentance was
accepted, and that God had yet mercy* in store for me.
With these reflections I worked my mind up, not only
to resignation to the will of God in the present disposition
of my circumstances, but even to a sincere thankfulness for
my condition, and that I, who was yet a living man, ought
not to complain, seeing I had not the due punishment of my
sins; that I enjoyed so many mercies which I had no reason
to have expected in that place; that I ought never more to
repine at my condition, but to rejoice and to give daily thanks
for that daily bread which nothing but a crowd of wonders
could have brought. That I ought to consider I had been
fed even by miracle, even as great as that of feeding Elijah1
by ravens, nay, by a long series of miracles; and that I
could hardly have named a place in the unhabitable2 part
of the world where I could have been cast more to my advan-
tage: a place where, as I had no society, which was my
affliction on one hand, so I found no ravenous beast, no
furious wolves or tigers, to threaten my life, no venomous
creatures or poisonous, which I might feed on to my hurt,
no savages to murther and devour me.
In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way, so
it was a life of mercy another; and I wanted nothing to make
it a life of comfort, but to be able to make my sense of God's
goodness to me, and care over me in this condition, be my
daily consolation; and after I did make a just improvement
of these things, I went away and was no more sad.
I had now been here so long, that many things which I
brought on shore for my help were either quite gone, or very
much wasted and near spent.
1 feeding Elijah: I. Kings xvii. 1-6.
3 unhabitable: uninhabited.
My ink, as I observed, had been gone some time, all but
a very little, which I eked out with water, a little and a
little, till it was so pale it scarce left any appearance of black
upon the paper: as long as it lasted, I made use of it to
minute down the days of the month on which any remarkable
thing happened to me; and, first, by casting up times past, I
remember that there was a strange concurrence of days1 in
the various providences which befell me, and which, if I
had been superstitiously inclined to observe days as fatal
or fortunate, I might have had reason to have looked upon
with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke
away from my father and my friends, and run away to
Hull, in order to go to sea, the same day afterwards I was
taken by the Sallee man-of-war, and made a slave.
The same day of the year that I escaped out of the wreck
of that ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day-year
afterwards I made my escape from Sallee in the boat. The
same day of the year I was born on, viz., the 30th of Septem-
ber, that same day I had my life so miraculously saved 262
year after, when I was cast on shore in this island; so that
my wicked life and my solitary life begun both on a day.
The next thing to my ink's being wasted, was that of my
bread, I mean the biscuit which I brought out of the ship:
this I had husbanded to the last degree, allowing myself but
one cake of bread a day for above a year, and yet I was quite
without bread for near a year before I got any corn of my
own, and great reason I had to be thankful that I had any
i a strange concurrence of days: Defoe, like Crusoe, was much interested in
this sort of coincidence. But to secure coincidence between the wreck in Yarmouth
Roads and the escape from Sallee he was led to introduce a statement inconsistent
with information previously given. Crusoe escaped from Sallee on September 19,
1655. It was the 19th, for on p. 340 he tells us that he left the island and escaped
from the Moors on the same day. It was in 1655, for when he undertook the ill-
fated voyage for slaves in 1659 he had been four years a planter in Brazil. It was
in September, because he was wrecked in Yarmouth Roads in September. But
according to the narrative of the Yarmouth Roads episode,—cf. pp. 48, 49,—the
wreck took place not more than 14 or 15 days after his sailing from Hull on
September 1: i.e.. not later than September 16. It is merely another bit of
carlessness on Defoe's part.
"26: Cf. note, p. 82.
at all, the getting it being, as has been already observed, next
to miraculous.
My clothes began to decay, too, mightily; as to linen,
I had had none a good while, except some chequered shirts
which I found in the chests of the other seamen, and which
I carefully preserved, because many times I could bear no
other clothes on but a shirt; and it was a very great help
to me that I had, among all the men's clothes of the ship,
almost three dozen of shirts. There were also several thick
watch-coats of the seamen's, which were left indeed, but
they were too hot to wear; and though it is true that the
weather was so violent hot that there was no need of clothes,
yet I could not go quite naked; no, though I had been
inclined to it, which I was not, nor could not abide the
thoughts of it, though I was all alone.
The reason why I could not go quite naked was, I could
not bear the heat of the sun so well when quite naked as
with some clothes on; nay, the very heat frequently blistered
my skin; whereas, with a shirt on, the air itself made some
motion, and whistling under that shirt, was twofold cooler
than without it: no more could I ever bring myself to go
out in the heat of the sun without a cap or a hat; the heat of
the sun, beating with such violence as it does in that place,
would give me the headache presently, by darting so directly
on my head, without a cap or hat on, so that I could not
bear it; whereas if I put on my hat, it would presently go
away.
Upon those views I began to consider about putting the
few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order; I
had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and my business was
now to try if I could not make jackets out of the great watch-
coats which I had by me, and with such other materials as
I had; so I set to work a-tailoring, or rather, indeed, a-botch-
ing, for I made most piteous work of it. However, I made
shift to make two or three new waistcoats, which I hoped
would serve me a great while; as for breeches, or drawers,
I made but a very sorry shift indeed, till afterward.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the crea-
tures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones, and I had hung
them up stretched out with sticks in the sun, by which
means some of them were so dry and hard that they were
fit for little, but others it seems were very useful. The first
thing I made of these was a great cap for my head, with
the hair on the outside, to shoot off the rain; and this I per-
formed so well, that after this I made me a suit of clothes
wholly of these skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches
open at knees, and both loose, for they were rather wanting1
to keep me cool than to keep me warm. I must not omit
to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made; for if I
was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor. However, they
were such as I made very good shift with; and when I was
abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and
cap being outermost, I was kept very dry.
After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to make
me an umbrella; I was indeed in great want of one, and had
a great mind to make one; I had seen them made in the
Brazils, where they are very useful in the great heats which
are there. And I felt the heats every jot as great here, and
greater too, being nearer the equinox2; besides, as I was
obliged to be much abroad, it was a most useful thing to
me, as well for the rains as the heats. I took a world of
pains at it, and was a great while before I could make any-
thing likely to hold; nay, after I thought I had hit the way,
I spoiled 2 or 3 before I made one to my mind; but at last
I made one that answered indifferently well: the main diffi-
culty I found was to make it to let down. I could make it
to spread, but if it did not let down too, and draw in, it was
not portable for me any way but just over my head, which
would not do. However, at last, as I said, I made one
• they were rather wanting: i.e., I wanted, or needed, them rather.
i equinox: the celestial equator.
to answer, and covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so
that it cast off the rains like a penthouse, and kept off the
sun so effectually, that I could walk out in the hottest of
the weather with greater advantage than I could before in
the coolest, and when I had no need of it, could close it
and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely
composed by resigning to the will of God, and throwing
myself wholly upon the disposal of His providence. This
made my life better than sociable, for when I began to regret
the want of conversation, I would ask myself whether thus
conversing mutually with my own thoughts, and as I hope
I may say, with even God Himself, by ejaculations, was not
better than the utmost enjoyment of human society in the
world?
I cannot say that after this, for five years, any extraor-
dinary thing happened to me, but I lived on in the same
course, in the same posture and place, just as before; the
chief things I was employed in, besides my yearly labor of
planting my barley and rice, and curing my raisins, of both
which I always kept up just enough to have sufficient stock
of one year's provisions beforehand; I say, besides this yearly
labor, and my daily labor of going out with my gun, I had
one labor, to make me a canoe, which at last I finished. So
that by digging a canal to it of six foot wide, and four foot
deep, I brought it into the creek, almost half a mile. As
for the first, which was so vastly big, as I made it without
considering beforehand, as I ought to do, how I should be
able to launch it, so, never being able to bring it to the
water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged to let it lie
where it was, as a memorandum to teach me to be wiser next
time: indeed, the next time, though I could not get a tree
proper for it, and in a place where I could not get the water
to it at any less distance than, as I have said, near half a
mile, yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it
over; and though I was near two years about it, yet I
never grutched my labor, in hopes of having a boat to go
off to sea at last.
However, though my little periagua was finished, yet
the size of it was not at all answerable to the design which
I had in view when I made the first; I mean of venturing
over to the terra firma1, where it2 was above forty miles
broad; accordingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to
put an end to that design, and now I thought no more of it:
but as I had a boat, my next design was to make a tour round
the island; for as I had been on the other side in one place,
crossing, as I have "already described it, over the land, so
the discoveries I made in that little journey made me very
eager to see other parts of the coast; and now I had a boat, I
thought of nothing but sailing round the island.
For this purpose, that I might do everything with dis-
cretion and consideration, I fitted up a little mast to my
boat, and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces of the
ship's sail, which lay in store, and of which I had a great
stock by me.
Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I
found she would sail very well: then I made little lockers,
or boxes, at either end of my boat, to put provisions, neces-
saries, and ammunition, &c, into, to be kept dry, either from
rain or the sprye of the sea; and a little long hollow place
I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could lay my gun,
making a flap to hang down over it to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a
mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun off
of me like an awning; and thus I every now and then took
a little voyage upon the sea, but never went far out, nor far
from the little creek; but at last, being eager to view the cir-
cumference of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my tour,
1 terra firma: the mainland; the name, in the map accompanying the early
editions of Robinson Crusoe, for the northern part of the South American continent.
1H . . . broad: i.e., the sea.
and accordingly I victualled my ship for the voyage, putting
in two dozen of my loaves (cakes I should rather call them)
of barley bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice, a food
I eat a great deal of, a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and
powder and shot for killing more, and two large watch-
coats, of those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved
out of the seamen's chests; these I took, one to lie upon, and
the other to cover me in the night.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my
reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I set out on
this voyage, and I found it much longer than I expected;
for though the island itself was not very large, yet when I
came to the east side1 of it, I found a great ledge of rocks
lie out above two leagues into the sea, some above water,
some under it; and beyond that, a shoal of sand, lying dry
half a league more; so that I was obliged to go a great way
out to sea to double the point.
When first I discovered them, I was going to give over
my enterprise, and come back again, not knowing how far
it might oblige me to go out to sea, and, above all, doubting
how I should get back again; so I came to an anchor; for
, I had made me a kind of an anchor with a piece of a broken
grappling which I got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on
shore, climbing up upon a hill, which seemed to overlook
that point, where I saw the full extent of it, and resolved to
venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I
perceived a strong and, indeed, a most furious current, which
run to the east, and even came close to the point; and I
took the more notice of it, because I saw there might be some
danger, that when I came into it, I might be carried out to
sea by the strength of it, and not be able to make the island
again; and indeed, had I not gotten first up upon this hill, I
1 east side: Cf. note, p. 234.
believe it would have been so; for there was the same current
on the other side the island, only that it set off at a farther
distance; and I saw there was a strong eddy under the
shore; so I had nothing to do but to get in out of the first
current, and I should presently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days; because the wind, blowing
pretty fresh at E. S. E., and that being just contrary to the
said current, made a great breach of the sea upon the point;
so that it was not safe for me to keep too close to the shore,
for the breach1, nor to go too far off, because of the stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated
overnight, the sea was calm, and I ventured; but I am a
warning piece2 again to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no
sooner was I come to the point, when even I was not my
boat's length from the shore, but I found myself in a great
depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a mill: it
carried my boat along with it with such violence, that all
I could do could not keep her so much as on the edge of it;
but I found it hurried me farther and farther-out from the
eddy, which was on my left hand. There was no wind stir-
ring to help me, and all I could do with my paddlers* signi-
fied nothing; and now I began to give myself over for lost;
for as the current was on both sides the island, I knew in a
few leagues' distance they must join again, and then I was
irrecoverably gone; nor did I see any possibility of avoiding
it; so that I had no prospect before me but of perishing;
not by the sea, for that was calm enough, but of starving for
hunger. I had indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big
almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and
I had a great jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of my
earthen pots; but what was all this to being driven into the
vast ocean, where, to be sure, there was no shore, no main-
land, or island, for a thousand leagues at least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of
1/or the breach: because of the breaking, or surf; cf. "breakers."
J warning piece: i.e., an example [of rashness] for a warning.
God to make the most miserable condition mankind could be
in worse. Now I looked back upon my desolate solitary
island as the most pleasant place in the world, and all the
happiness my heart could wish for was to be but there again.
I stretched out my hands to it with eager wishes. "O happy
desert," said I, "I shall never see thee more. O miserable
creature," said I, "whether1 am I going?" Then I
reproached myself with my unthankful temper, and how I
had repined at my solitary condition; and now what would
I give to be on shore there again! Thus we never see the
true state of our condition, till it is illustrated to us by its
contraries; nor know how to value what we enjoy, but by
the want of it. It is scarce possible to imagine the conster-
nation I was now in, being driven from my beloved island
(for it so appeared to me now to be) into the wide ocean,
almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever recover-
ing it again. However, I worked hard, till indeed my
strength was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as much
to the northward, that is, towards the side of the current
which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could; when about noon,
as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze
of wind in my face, springing up from the S. S. E. This
cheered my heart a little, and especially when, in about half
an hour more, it blew a pretty small gentle gale. By this
time I was gotten at a frightful distance from the island, and
had the least cloud or hazy weather intervened, I had been
undone another way, too; for I had no compass on board,
and should never have known how to have steered towards
the island, if I had but once lost sight of it; but the weather
continuing clear, I applied myself to get up my mast again,
spread my sail, standing away to the north as much as pos-
sible, to get out of the current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began
to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the water
i whether: whither.
some alteration of the current was near; for where the cur-
rent was so strong, the water was foul; but perceiving the
water clear, I found the current abate, and presently I found
to the east, at about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon
some rocks; these rocks I found caused the current to part
again, and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly,
leaving the rocks to the northeast, so the other returned by
the repulse of the rocks, and made a strong eddy, which run
back again to the northwest, with a very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to
them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just
a-going to murther them, or who have been in such like
extremities, may guess what my present surprise of joy was,
and how gladly I put my boat into the stream of this eddy,
and the wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail
to it, running cheerfully before the wind, and with a strong
tide or eddy under foot.
This eddy carried me about a league in my way back
again, directly towards the island, but about two leagues
more to the northward than the current which carried me
away at first; so that when I came near the island, I found
myself open to the northern shore of it, that is to say, the
other end of the island, opposite to that which I went out
from.
When I had made something more than a league of way
by the help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent,
and served me no farther. However, I found that being
between the two great currents, viz., that on the south side,
which had hurried me away, and that on the north, which
lay about a league on the other side: I say, between these
two, in the wake of the island, I found the water at least
still and running no way, and having still a breeze of wind
fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though
not making such fresh way as I did before.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then within
about a league of the island, I found the point of the rocks
which occasioned this disaster stretching out, as is described
before, to the southward, and casting off the current more
southwardly, had of course made another eddy to the north,
and this I found very strong, but not directly setting the way
my course lay, which was due west, but almost full north.
However, having a fresh gale, I stretched across this eddy,
slanting northwest, and in about an hour came within about
a mile of the shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got
to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God
thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts
of my deliverance by my boat, and refreshing myself with
such things as I had, I brought my boat close to the shore,
in. a little cove that I had spied under some trees, and laid
me down to sleep, being quite spent with the labor and
fatigue of the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home with
my boat: I had run so much hazard, and knew too much
the case, to think of attempting it by the way I went out,
and what might be at the other side (I mean the west side)
I knew not, nor had I any mind to run any more ventures;
so I only resolved in the morning to make my way west-
ward along the shore and to see if there was no creek where
I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have her again
if I wanted her; in about three miles or thereabouts, coasting
the shore, I came to a very good inlet or bay about a mile
over, which narrowed till it came to a very little rivulet or
brook, where I found a very convenient harbor for my boat,
and where she lay as if she had been in a little dock made
on purpose for her. Here I put in, and having stowed my
boat very safe, I went on shore to look about me and see
where I was.
I soon found I had but a little past by the place where I
had been before, when I travelled on foot to that shore: so
taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and my umbrella,
for it was exceeding hot, I began my march: the way was
comfortable enough after such a voyage as I had been upon,
and I reached my old bower in the evening, where I found
everything standing as I left it; for I always kept it in good
order, being, as I said before, my country house.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to
rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep: but
judge you, if you can, that read my story, what a surprise I
must be in, when I was waked out of my sleep by a voice
calling me by my name several times, "Robin, Robin, Robin
Crusoe! poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin Crusoe?
Where are you? Where have you been?"
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing,
or paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day, and
with walking the latter part, that I did not wake thor-
oughly, but dozing between sleeping and waking, thought I
dreamed that somebody spoke to me: but as the voice con-
tinued to repeat "Robin Crusoe! Robin Crusoe!" at last I
began to wake more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully
frighted, and started up in the utmost consternation: but
no sooner were my eyes open, but I saw my Poll sitting
on the top of the hedge; and immediately knew that it was
he that spoke to me; for just in such bemoaning language I
had used to talk to him, and teach him; and he had learned
it so perfectly, that he would sit upon my finger, and lay
his bill close to my face, and cry, "Poor Robin Crusoe!
Where are you? Where have you been? How come you
here?" and such things as I had taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while
before I could compose myself: first, I was amazed how the
creature got thither, and then, how he should just keep
about the place, and nowhere else: but as I was well satisfied
it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got it over; and hold-
ing out my hand, and calling him by his name, "Poll," the
sociable creature came to me, and sat upon my thumb, as he
used to do, and continued talking to me, "Poor Robin
Crusoe!" and how did I come here? and where had I been?
just as if he had been overjoyed to see me again; and so I
carried him home along with me.
I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some
time, and had enough to do for many days to sit still and
reflect upon the danger I had been in: I would have been
very glad to have had my boat again on my side of the
island; but I knew not how it was practicable to get it about.
As to the east side of the island, which I had gone round,
I knew well enough there was no venturing that way;
my very heart would shrink, and my very blood run chill, but
to think of it: and as to the other side of the island, I did
not know how it might be there; but supposing the current
ran with the same force against the shore at the east1 as it
passed by it on the other, I might run the same risk of being
driven down the stream, and carried by the island, as I had
been before of being carried away from it; so with these
thoughts I contented myself to be without any boat, though
it had been the product of so many months' labor to make
it, and of so many more to get it unto the sea.
In this government of my temper, I remained near a
year, lived a very sedate retired life, as you may well sup-
pose; and my thoughts being very much composed as to my
condition, and fully comforted in resigning myself to the
dispositions of Providence, I thought I lived really very
happily in all things, except that of society.
I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying myself
to, and I believe could,' upon occasion, maket, a very good
carpenter, especially considering how few tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in
1 the east: Observe that Defoe is here referring to the shore he knows. We
should be likely to speak first of the unknown shore.
my earthenware, and contrived well enough to make them
with a wheel, which I found infinitely easier and better,
because I made things round and shapable, which before
were filthy things indeed to look on. But I think I was never
more vain of my own performance, or more joyful for any-
thing I found out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-
pipe.1 And though it was a very ugly clumsy thing when
it was done, and only burnt red like other earthenware, yet
as it was hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was
exceedingly comforted with it, for I had been always used
to smoke, and there were pipes in the ship, but I forgot
them at first, not knowing that there was tobacco in the
island; and afterwards, when I searched the ship again, I
could not come at any pipes at all.
In my wicker ware also I improved much, and made
abundance of necessary baskets, as well as my invention
showed me; though not very handsome, yet they were such as
were very handy and convenient for my laying things up in,
or fetching things home in. For example, if I killed a goat
abroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flea it, and dress it, and
cut it in pieces, and bring it home in a basket; and the like
by a turtle; I could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece
or two of the flesh, which was enough for me, and bring
them home in a basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also"
large deep baskets were my receivers for my corn, which I
always rubbed but as soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept
it in great baskets.
I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably,
and this was a want which it was impossible for me to
supply, and I began seriously to consider what I must do
when I should have no more powder; that is to say, how I
should do to kill any goat. I had, as is observed, in the
third year of my being here kept a young kid, and bred her
up tame, and I was in hope of getting a he goat. But I
'tobacco-pipe: Cf. p.89. Defoe has forgotten that Crusoe had a pipe.
could not by any means bring it to pass, till my kid grew an
old goat; and I could never find in my heart to kill her,
till she died at last of mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and,
as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself
to study some art to trap and snare the goats, to see whether
I could not catch some of them alive, and particularly I
wanted a she goat great with young.
To this purpose I made snares to hamper them, and I
do believe they were more than once taken in them, but my
tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and I always found!
them broken, and my bait devoured.
At length I resolved to try a pitfall, so I dug several
large pits in the earth, in places where I had observed the
goats used to feed, and over these pits I placed hurdles, of
my own making too, with a great weight upon them; and
several times I put ears of barley and dry rice, without
setting the trap, and I could easily perceive that the goats
had gone in and eaten up the corn, for I could see the mark
of their feet. At length I set three traps in one night, and
going the next morning, I found them all standing, and yet
the bait eaten and gone: this was very discouraging.
However, I altered my trap, and not to trouble you with
particulars, going one morning to see my trap, I found in one
of them a large old he goat, and in one of the other1, three
kids, a male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him;
he was so fierce I durst not go into the pit to him; that is
to say, to go about to bring him away alive, which was what
I wanted. I could have killed him, but that was not my-
business, nor would it answer my end. So I even let him
out2, and he ran away as if he had been frighted out of his
wits: but I had forgot then what I learned afterwards, that
1 one of tke other: i.e., one of the others, or other [traps]; cf. p. 329.
2 let him out: A contemporary critic asked how this was done if the goat werej
so fierce that Crusoe could not go near him.
hunger will tame a lion. If I had let him stay there three
or four days without food, and then have carried him some
water to drink, and then a little corn, he would have been
as tame as one of the kids, for they are mighty sagacious,
tractable creatures where they are well used.
However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time; then I went to the three kids, and taking
them one by one, I tied them with strings together, and with
some difficulty brought them all home.
It was a good while before they would feed, but throw-
ing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they
began to be tame; and now I found that if I expected to
supply myself with goat-flesh when I had no powder or
shot left, breeding some up tame was my only way, when
perhaps I might have them about my house like a flock of
sheep.
But then it presently occurred to me that I must keep
the tame from the wild, or else they would always run wild
when they grew up, and the only way for this was to have
some enclosed piece of ground, well fenced either with
hedge or pale, to keep them in so effectually, that those
within might not break out, or those without break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands, yet
as I saw there was an absolute necessity of doing it, my
first piece of work was to find out a proper piece of ground,
viz., where there was likely to be herbage for them to
eat, water for them to drink, and cover to keep them from
the sun.
Those who understand such enclosures will think I had
very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a place very
proper for all these, being a plain open piece of meadow
land, or savanna (as our people call it in the western colo-
nies), which had two or three little drills of fresh water in
it, and at one end was very woody: I say, they will smile
at my forecast, when I shall tell them I began my enclosing
of this piece of ground in such a manner that my hedge
or pale must have been at least two miles about. Nor was
the madness of it so great as to the compass, for if it was
ten miles about, I was like to have time enough to do it in.
But I did not consider that my goats would be as wild in
so much compass as if they had had the whole island, and I
should have so much room to chase them in, that I should
never catch them.
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe, about
fifty yards, when this thought occurred to me, so I presently
stopt short, and for the first beginning I resolved to enclose
a piece of about 150 yards in length, and 100 yards in
breadth, which, as it would maintain as many as I should
have in any reasonable time, so, as my flock increased, I
could add more ground to my enclosure.
This was acting with some prudence, and I went to
work with courage. I was about three months hedging in
the first piece, and till I had done it I tethered the three
kids in the best part of it, and used them to feed as near
me as possible to make them familiar; and very often I would
go and carry them some ears of barley, or a handful of rice,
and feed them out of my hand; so that after my enclosure
was finished, and I let them loose, they would follow me
up and down, bleating after me for a handful of corn.
This answered my end, and in about a year and half
I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in
two years more I had three and forty, besides several that
I took and killed for my food. And after that I enclosed
five several pieces of ground to feed them in, with little pens
to drive them into, to take them as I wanted, and gates
out of one piece of ground into another.
But this was not all, for now I not only had goat's flesh
to feed on when I pleased, but milk too, a thing which indeed
in my beginning I did not so much as think of, and which,
when it came into my thoughts, was really an agreeable sur-
prise. For now I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a
gallon or two of milk in a day, and as nature, who gives
supplies of food to every creature, dictates even naturally
how to make use of it, so I, that had never milked a cow,
much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, very readily
and handily, though after a great many essays and miscar-
riages, made me both butter and cheese at last, and never
wanted it afterwards.
How mercifully can our great Creator treat His crea-
tures even in those conditions in which they seemed to be
overwhelmed in destruction! How can He sweeten the
bitterest providences, and give us cause to praise Him for
dungeons and prisons! What a table was here spread for
me in a wilderness, where I saw nothing at first but to
perish for hunger!
It would have made a stoic1 smile to have seen me and
my little family sit down to dinner; there was my majesty,
the prince and lord of the whole island; I had the lives of
all my subjects at my absolute command. I could hang,
draw, give liberty, and take it away, and no rebels among
all my subjects.
Then to see how like a king I dined, too, all alone,
attended by my servants! Poll, as if he had been my favor-
ite, was the only person permitted to talk to me. My dog,
who was now grown very old and crazy2, and had found
no species to multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right
hand, and two cats, one on one side the table, and one on
the other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as
a -mark of special favor.
But these were not the two cats which I brought on
shore at first, for they were both of them dead, and had
been interred near my habitation by my own hand; but one
of them having multiplied by I know not what kind of
1 stoic: A stoic was a disciple of the Greek philosopher Zeno, who held that men
should be free from passion, and unmoved by either grief or joy. In general the
word denotes a person who is apathetic or not easily moved; so here.
2 crazy: weak or decrepit.
creature, these were two which I had preserved tame;
whereas the rest run wild in the woods, and became indeed
troublesome to me at last; for they would often come into
my house, and plunder me too, till at last I was obliged to
shoot them, and did kill a great many; at length they left
me. With this attendance and in this plentiful manner I
lived; neither could I be said to want anything but society,
and of that, in some time after this, I was like to have too
much.
I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have
the use of my boat, though very loath to run any more
hazards; and therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways to
get her about the island, and at other times I sat myself
down contented enough without her. But I had a strange
uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of the island,
where, as I have said, in my last ramble, I went up the hill
to see how the shore lay, and how the current set, that I
might see what I had to do: this inclination increased upon
me every day, and at length I resolved to travel thither by
land; following the edge of the shore, I did so: but had any
one in England been to meet1 such a man as I was, it must
either have frighted them, or raised a great deal of laughter;
and as I frequently stood still to look at myself, I could
not but smile at the notion of my traveling through York-
shire with such an equipage, and in such a dress: be pleased
to take a sketch of my figure as follows.
I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin,
with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun
from me, as to shoot the rain off from running into my neck;
nothing being so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon
the flesh, under the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat-skin, the skirts coming down
to about the middle of my thighs; and a pair of open-kneed
breeches of the same; the breeches were made of the skin of
lbeen to meet: i.e., chanced to meet.
an old he goat, whose hair hung down such a length on
either side, that like pantaloons, it reached to the middle
of my legs; stockings and shoes I had none, but had made me
a pair of somethings, I scarce know what to call them, like
buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace on either side like
spatterdashes1, but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed
were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew
together with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles;
and in a kind of a frog on either side of this, instead of a
sword and a dagger, hung a little saw and a hatchet, one
on one side, one on the other. I had another belt, not so
broad, and fastened in the same manner, which hung over
my shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left arm, hung
two pouches, both made of goat's skin too, in one of which
hung my powder, in the other my shot: at my back I carried
my basket, on my shoulder my gun, and over my head a great
clumsy ugly goat-skin umbrella, but which, after all, was
the most necessary thing I had about me, next to my gun:
as for my face, the color of it was really not so Moletta2 like
as one might expect from a man not at all careful of it, and
living within nineteen3 * degrees of the equinox. My beard
I had once suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a
yard long; but as I had both scissors and razors sufficient,
I had cut it pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip,
which I had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whis-
kers, such as I had seen worn by some Turks who I saw at
Sallee; for the Moors did not wear such, though the Turks
did; of these mustachios or whiskers, I will not say they
were long enough to hang my hat upon them, but they were
of a length and shape monstrous enough, and such as in
England would have passed for frightful.
1 spatterdashes: gaiters.
5 Moletta: mulatto.
8 nineteen: Apparently the "nine or ten" of the later editions represents more
nearly the supposed situation of the island. On p. 107 he figures out his latitude
to be "9 degrees 22 minutes north of the line."
But all this is by the bye; for as to my figure, I had so
few to observe me, that it was of no manner of consequence;
so I say no more to that part. In this kind of figure I went
my new journey, and was out five or six days. I travelled
first along the seashore, directly to the place where I first
brought my boat to an anchor, to get up upon the rocks; and
having no boat now to take care of, I went over the land
a nearer way to the same height that I was upon before,
when, looking forward to the point of the rocks which lay
out, and which I was obliged to double with my boat, as
is said above, I was surprised to see the sea all smooth and
quiet, no rippling, no motion, no current, any more there
than in other places.
I was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolved
to spend some time in the observing it, to see if nothing from
the sets of the tide had occasioned it; but I was presently
convinced how it was, viz., that the tide of ebb setting from
the west, and joining with the current of waters from some
great river on the shore, must be the occasion of this current;
and that, according as the wind blew more forcibly from the
west or from the north, this current came nearer, or went
farther from the shore; for waiting thereabouts till evening,
I went up to the rock again, and then the tide of ebb being
made, I plainly saw the current again as before, only that
it run farther off, being near half a league from the shore;
whereas in my case it set close upon the shore, and hurried
me and my canoe along with it, which at another time it
would not have done.
This observation convinced me that I had nothing to
do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide,
and I might very easily bring my boat about the island
again: but when I began to think of putting it in practice,
I had such a terror upon my spirits at the remembrance of
the danger I had been in, that I could not think of it again
with any patience; but, on the contrary, I took up another
resolution, which was more safe, though more laborious;
and this was, that I would build or rather make me another
periagua, or canoe; and so have one for one side of the island,
and one for the other.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call
it, two plantations in the island; one my little fortification
or tent, with the wall about it, under the rock, with the
cave behind me, which by this time I had enlarged into sev-
eral apartments, or caves, one within another. One of these,
which was the driest and largest, and had a door out
beyond my wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond
where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up with the
large earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and
with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would hold
five or six bushels each, where I laid up my stores of pro-
vision, especially my corn, some in the ear cut off short
from the straw, and the other rubbed out with my hand.
As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or
piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by this time
grown so big, and spread so very much, that there was not
the least appearance to any one's view of any habitation
behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within
the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of
corn ground, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and
which duly yielded me their harvest in its season; and
whenever I had occasion for more corn, I had more land
adjoining, as fit as that.
Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now a
tolerable plantation there also; for first, I had my little
bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair; that is to say, I
kept the hedge which circled it in, constantly fitted up to
its usual height, the ladder standing always in the inside; I
kept the trees, which at first were no more than my stakes, but
were now grown very firm and tall, I kept them always so
cut that they might spread and grow thick and wild, and
make the more agreeable shade, which they did effectually
to my mind. In the middle of this I had my tent always
standing, being a piece of a sail spread over poles set up for
that purpose, and which never wanted any repair or renew-
ing; and under this I had made me a squab, or couch, with
the skins of the creatures I had killed, and with other soft
things, and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our
sea-beddings which I had saved, and a great watch-coat to
cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent
from my chief seat, I took up my country habitation.
Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle, that
is to say, my goats: and as I had taken an inconceivable deal
of pains to fence and enclose this ground, so I was so uneasy
to see it kept entire, lest the goats should break through, that
I never left off till with infinite labor I had stuck the out-
side of the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one
another, that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and there
was scarce room to put a hand through between them;
which afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in
the next rainy season, made the enclosure strong like a wall,
indeed stronger than any wall.
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that
I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared neces-
sary for my comfortable support; for I considered the keep-
ing up a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand would be
a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese for me
as long as I lived in the place, if it were to be forty years;
and that keeping them in my reach depended entirely upon
my perfecting my enclosures to such a degree that I might
be sure of keeping them together; which by this method
indeed, I so effectually secured, that when these little stakes
began to grow, I had planted them so very thick, I was forced
to pull some of them up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I
principally depended on for my winter store of raisins, and
which I never failed to preserve very carefully, as the best
and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet; and indeed they
were not agreeable only, but physical1, wholesome, nourish-
ing, and refreshing to the last degree.
As this was also about halfway between my other habi-
tation and the place where I had laid up my boat, I gen-
erally stayed and lay here in my way thither; for I used
frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all things about or
belonging to her in very good order; sometimes I went out
in her to divert myself, but no more hazardous voyages would
I go, nor scarce ever above a stone's cast or two from the
shore, I was so apprehensive of being hurried out of my
knowledge again by the currents, or winds, or any other
accident. But now I come to a new scene of my life.
It happened one day about noon, going towards my boat,
I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked
foot on the shore, which was very plain to be seen in the
sand: I stood like one thunderstruck, or as if I had seen
an apparition; I listened, I looked round me, I could hear
nothing, nor see anything; I went up to a rising ground to
look farther; I went up the shore and down the shore, but
it was all one; I could see no other impression but that one;
I went to it again to see if there were any more, and to
observe if it might not be my fancy; but there was no room
for that, for there was exactly the very print of a foot, toes,
heel, and every part of a foot; how it came thither I knew
not, nor could in the least imagine. But after innumerable
fluttering thoughts, like a man perfectly confused and out
of myself, I came home to my fortification, not feeling, as
we say, the ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree,
looking behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking
every bush and tree, and fancying every stump at a distance
to be a man; nor is it possible to describe how many various
1 physical: medicinal.
shapes affrighted imagination represented things to me in, how
many wild ideas were found every moment in my fancy, and
what strange unaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts
by the way.
When I came to my castle, for so I think I called it ever
after this, I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went
over by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the hole
in the rock, which I called a door, I cannot remember;
no, nor could I remember the next morning; for never
frighted hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror
of mind than I to this retreat.
I slept none that night; the farther I was from the
occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehensions were,
which is something1 contrary to the nature of such things,
and especially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear:
but I was so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of
the thing, that I formed nothing but dismal imaginations to
myself, even though I was now a great way off of it. Some-
times I fancied it must be the devil; and reason joined in
with me upon this supposition: for how should any other
thing in human shape come into the place? Where was the
vessel that brought them? What marks was there of any
other footsteps? And how was it possible a man should
come there? But then to think that Satan should take
human shape upon him in such a place, where there could
be no manner of occasion for it, but to leave the print of
his foot behind him, and that even for no purpose too, for
he could not be sure I should see it; this was an amusement2
the other way; I considered that the devil might have found
out abundance of other ways to have terrified me than this
of the single print of a foot. That as I lived quite on the
other side of the island, he would never have been so simple
to leave a mark in a place where 't was ten thousand to one
whether I should ever see it or not, and in the sand too,
1 something: Used adverbially; equivalent to "somewhat."
! amusement: perplexity, cause of meditation; cf. "to muse."
which the first surge of the sea, upon a high wind, would
have defaced entirely: all this seemed inconsistent with the
thing itself, and with all the notions we usually entertain
of the subtilty of the devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me
out of all apprehensions of its being the devil: and I pres-
ently concluded then, that it must be some more dangerous
creature, viz., that it must be some of the savages of the
mainland over against me, who had wandered out to sea in
their canoes, and either driven by the currents or by con-
trary winds had made the island, and had been on shore,
but were gone away again to sea, being as loath, perhaps,
to have stayed in this desolate island as I would have been
to have had them.
While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I
was very thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy as not
to be thereabouts at that time, or that they did not see my
boat, by which they would have concluded that some inhabi-
tants had been in the place, and perhaps have searched farther
for me. Then terrible thoughts racked my imagination
about their having found my boat, and that there were peo-
ple here; and that if so, I should certainly have them come
again in greater numbers, and devour me; that if it should
happen so that they should not find me, yet they would
find my enclosure, destroy all my corn, carry away all my
flock of tame goats, and I should perish at last for mere
want.
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope; all that
former confidence in God which was founded upon such
wonderful experience as I had had of His goodness, now
vanished, as if He that had fed me by miracle hitherto, could
not preserve by His power the provision which He had made
for me by His goodness. I reproached myself with my easi-
ness, that would not sow any more corn one year than would
just serve me till the next season, as if no accident could
intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon
the ground; and this I thought so just a reproof, that I
resolved for the future to have two or three years' corn
beforehand, so that whatever might come, I might not per-
ish for want of bread.
How strange a chequer work of Providence is the life
of man! and by what secret differing springs are the affec-
tions1 hurried about, as differing circumstances present!
To-day we love what to-morrow we hate; to-day we seek
what to-morrow we shun; to-day we desire what to-morrow
we fear, nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of; this was
exemplified in me at this time in the most lively manner
imaginable; for I, whose only affliction was that I seemed
banished from human society, that I was alone, circumscribed
by the boundless ocean, cut off from mankind, and con-
demned to what I called silent life; that I was as one who
heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among the
living, or to appear among the rest of His creatures; that to
have seen one of my own species would have seemed to me a
raising me from death to life, and the greatest blessing that
Heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing of salvation, could
bestow; I say, that I should now tremble at the very appre-
hensions of seeing a man, and was ready to sink into the
ground at but the shadow or silent appearance of a man's
having set his foot in the island.
Such is the uneven state of human life; and it afforded
me a great many curious speculations afterwards, when I
had a little recovered my first surprise; I considered that
this was the station of life the infinitely wise and good provi-
dence of God had determined for me; that as I could not
foresee what the ends of Divine wisdom might be in all this,
so I was not to dispute His sovereignty, who, as I was His
creature, had an undoubted right by creation to govern and
dispose of me absolutely as He thought fit; and who, as I
'secret . . . strings . . . affections: Cf. note, p. 241.
was a creature who had offended Him, had likewise a judicial
right to condemn me to what punishment He thought fit;
and that it was my part to submit to bear His indignation,
because I had sinned against Him.
I then reflected that God, who was not only righteous but
omnipotent, as He had thought fit thus to punish and afflict
me, so He was able to deliver me; that if He did not think
fit to do it, 't was my unquestioned duty to resign myself
absolutely and entirely to His will; and on the other hand,
it was my duty also to hope in Him, pray to Him, and quietly
to attend the dictates and directions of His daily providence.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may
say, weeks and months; and one particular effect of my cogi-
tations on this occasion I cannot omit, viz., one morning
early, lying in my bed, and filled with thought about my
danger from the appearance of savages, I found it discom-
posed me very much, upon which those words of the Scrip*
ture came into my thoughts, "Call upon Me in the day of
trouble, and I will deliver, and thou shalt glorify Me1."
Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my heart
was not only comforted, but I was guided and encouraged
to pray earnestly to God for deliverance: when I had done
praying, I took up my Bible, and opening it to read, the first
words that presented to me were, "Wait on the Lord, and
be of good cheer, and He shall strengthen thy heart; wait,
I say, on the Lord2." It is impossible to express the comfort
this gave me. In answer, I thankfully laid down the book,
and was no more sad, at least not on that occasion.
In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and
reflections, it came into my thought one day that all this
might be a mere chimera of my own;' and that this foot
might be the print of my own foot, when I came on shore
from my boat: this cheered me up a little, too, and I began
to persuade myself it was all a delusion; that it was nothing
1 Call upon Me, etc.: Psalms 1. 15; already quoted, p. 140.
2 Wait on the Lord, etc.: Psalms xxvii. 14.
else but my own foot; and why might not I come that way
from the boat, as well as I was going that way to the boat?
Again, I considered also that I could by no means tell for
certain where I had trod, and where I had not; and that if,
at last, this was only the print of my own foot, I had played
the part of those fools who strive to make stories of spectres
and apparitions, and then are frighted at them more than
anybody.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again,
for I had not stirred out of my castle for three days and
nights, so that I began to starve for provision; for I had
little or nothing within doors but some barley-cakes and
water. Then I knew that my goats wanted to be milked
too, which usually was my evening diversion; and the poor
creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for want
of it; and, indeed, it almost spoiled some of them, and almost
dried up their milk.
Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that this
was nothing but the print of one of my own feet, and so
I might be truly said to start at my own shadow, I began to
go abroad again, and went to my country house to milk my
flock; but to see with what fear I went forward, how often
I looked behind me, how I was ready every now and then
to lay down my basket, and run for my life, it would have
made any one have thought I was haunted with an evil
conscience, or that I had been lately most terribly frighted;
and so indeed I had.
However, as I went down thus two or three days, and
having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to
think there was really nothing in it but my own imagination:
but I could not persuade myself fully of this till I should
go down to the shore again, and see this print of a foot, and
measure it by my own, and see if there was any similitude
or fitness, that I might be assured it was my own foot: but
when I came to the place, first, it appeared evidently to me
that when I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on
shore anywhere thereabouts; secondly, when I came to meas-
ure the mark with my own foot, I found my foot not so large
by a great deal; both these things filled my head with new
imaginations, and gave me the vapors1 again to the highest
degree; so that I shook with cold like one in an ague: and
I went home again, filled with the belief that some man or
men had been on shore there; or in short, that the island was
inhabited, and I might be surprised, before I was aware;
and what course to take for my security I knew not.
0 what ridiculous resolution men take when possessed
with fear! It deprives them of the use of those means
which reason offers for their relief. The first thing I pro-
posed to myself was, to throw down my enclosures, and turn
all my tame cattle wild into the woods, that the enemy might
not find them, and then frequent the island in prospect of the
same or the like booty: then to the simple thing of digging
up my two cornfields, that they might not find such a grain
there, and still be prompted to frequent the island; then to
demolish my bower and tent, that they might not see any
vestiges of habitation, and be prompted to look farther, in
order to find out the persons inhabiting.
These were the subject of the first night's cogitation,
after I was come home again, while the apprehensions which
had so overrun my mind were fresh upon me, and my head
was full of vapors, as above: thus fear of danger is ten thou-
sand times more terrifying than danger itself, when apparent
to the eyes; and we find the burthen of anxiety greater by
much than the evil which we are anxious about; and which
was worse than all this, I had not that relief in this trouble
from the resignation I used to practise, that I hoped to have.
I looked, I thought, like Saul, who complained not only that
the Philistines were upon him, but that God had forsaken
him; for I did not now take due ways to compose my mind,
1 the vapors: Cf. note p. 136.
by crying to God in my distress, and resting upon His provi-
dence, as I had done before, for my defence and deliver-
ance ; which if I had done, I had at least been more cheerfully
supported under this new surprise, and perhaps carried
through it with more resolution.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all night;
but in the morning I fell asleep, and having by the amuse-
ment1 of my mind, been, as it were, tired, and my spirits
exhausted, I slept very soundly, and waked much better
composed than I had ever been before: and now I began
to think sedately; and upon the utmost debate with myself,
I concluded that this island, which was so exceeding pleas-
ant, fruitful, and no farther from the mainland than as I
had seen, was not so entirely abandoned as I might imagine r
that although there were no stated inhabitants who lived on
the spot, yet that there might sometimes come boats off from
the shore, who either with design, or perhaps never but
when they were driven by cross winds, might come to this;
place.
That I had lived here fifteen years now, and had not
met with the least shadow or figure of any people yet; and
that if at any time they should be driven here, it was prob-
able they went away again as soon as ever they could, seeing
they had never thought fit to fix there upon any occasion, to
this time.
That the most I could suggest any danger from was,
from any such casual accidental landing of straggling people
from the main, who, as it was likely, if they were driven
hither, were here against their wills; so they made no stay
here, but went off again with all possible speed, seldom stay-
ing one night on shore, lest they should not have the help of
the tides and daylight back again; and that therefore I had
nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat, in case
I should see any savages land upon the spot.
1 amusement: Cf. p. 205.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave
so large as to bring a door through again, which door, as I
said, came out beyond where my fortification joined to the
rock; upon maturely considering this, therefore, I resolved
to draw me a second fortification, in the same manner of a
semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just where I had
planted a double row of trees about twelve years before, of
which I made mention; these trees having been planted so
thick before, they wanted but a few piles to be driven
between them, that they should be thicker and stronger, and
my wall would be soon finished.
So that I had now a double wall, and my outer wall was
thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and everything
I could think of to make it strong, having in it seven little
holes, about as big as I might put my arm out at: in the
inside of this, I thickened my wall to above ten foot thick,
with continual bringing earth out of my cave, and laying it
at the foot of the wall, and walking upon it; and through the
seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took
notice that I got seven on shore out of the ship; these, I say,
I planted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames that
held them like a carriage, that so I could fire all the seven
guns in two minutes' time: this wall I was many a weary
month a-finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till it
was done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my
wall, for a great way every way, as full with stakes or sticks.
of the osier-like wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they
could well stand; insomuch, that I believe I might set in near
twenty thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space
between them and my wall, that I might have room to see
an enemy, and they might have no shelter from the young
trees, if they attempted to approach my outer wall.
Thus in two years' time I had a thick grove, and in
five or six years' time I had a wood before my dwelling,
growing so monstrous thick and strong that it was indeed
perfectly impassable; and no men, of what kind soever,
would ever imagine that there was anything beyond it, much
less a habitation: as for the way which I proposed to myself
to go in and out, for I left no .avenue, it was by setting two
ladders, one to a part of the rock which was low, and then
broke in1, and left room to place another ladder upon that;
so when the two ladders were taken down, no man living
could come down to me without mischieving2 himself; and
if they had come flown, they were still on the outside of my
outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could sug-
gest for my own preservation; and it will be seen, at length,
that they were not altogether without just reason; though I
foresaw nothing at that time more than my mere fear sug-
gested to me.
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of
my other affairs; for I had a great concern upon me for my
little herd of goats; they were not only a present supply to
me upon every occasion, and began to be sufficient to me,
without the expense of powder and shot, but also without
the fatigue of hunting after the wild ones; and I was loath
to lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse
up over again.
To this purpose, after long consideration, I could think
of but two ways to preserve them; one was to find another
convenient place to dig a cave underground, and to drive
them into it every night; and the other was to enclose two
or three little bits of land, remote from one another and as
much concealed as I could, where I might keep about half a
dozen young goats in each place: so^that if any disaster hap-
pened to the flock in general, I might be able to raise them
again with little trouble and time: and this, though it would
1 it was.by setting, etc.: Note the confused structure of the sentence, and cf.
note, p. 71. Defoe might better have written: "I set one ladder against a part
. . . low, and then broke in . . ."-
* mischieving: i.e., doing a mischief to, hurting, harming.
require a great deal of time and labor, I thought was the
most rational design.
Accordingly I spent some time to find out the most
retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon one which was
as private indeed as my heart. could wish for; it was a little
damp piece of ground in the middle of the hollow and thick
woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost myself once before,
endeavoring to come back that way from the eastern part of
the island: here I found a clear piece of land, near three
acres, so surrounded with woods that it was almost an enclos-
ure by Nature, at least it did not want near so much labor
to make it so, as the other pieces of ground I had worked
so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground,
and in less than a month's time I had so fenced it round
that my flock, or herd, call it which you please, who were
not so wild now as at first they might be supposed to be,
were well enough secured in it. So, without any farther
delay, I removed ten young she goats and two he goats to this
piece; and when they were there, I continued to perfect the
fence till I had made it as secure as the other, which, how-
ever, I did at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a
great deal.
All this labor I was at the expense of, purely from my
apprehensions on the account of the print of a man's foot
which I had seen; for as yet I never saw any human creature
come near the island, and I had now lived two years under
these uneasinesses, which indeed made my life much less com-
fortable than it was before, as may well be imagined by any
who know what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear
of man; and this I must observe with grief too, that the
discomposure of my mind had too great impressions also upon
the religious part of my thoughts, for the dread and terror
of falling into the hands of savages and cannibals lay so upon
my spirits, that I seldom found mys-elf in a due temper for
application to Thy Maker, at least not with the sedate calm-
ness and resignation of soul which I was wont to do; I
rather prayed to God as under great affliction and pressure
of mind, surrounded with danger, and in expectation every
night of being murthered and devoured before morning; and
I must testify from my experience, that a temper of peace,
thankfulness, love, and affection, is much more the proper
frame for prayer than that of terror and discomposure; and
that under the dread of mischief impending, a man is no more
fit for a comforting performance of the duty of praying to
God, than he is for repentance on a sick-bed: for these dis-
composures affect the mind as the others do the body; and
the discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as great a
disability as that of the body, and much greater, praying to
God being properly an act of the mind, not of the body.
But to go on; after I had thus secured one part of my
little living stock, I went about the whole island, searching
for another private place to make such another deposit; when
wandering more to the west point of the island than I had
ever gone yet, and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat
upon the sea, at a great distance; I had found a prospective
glass or two in one of the seamen's chests, which I saved out
of our ship: but I had it not about me, and this was so
remote that I could not tell what to make of it, though I
looked at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any
longer; whether it was a boat or not, I do not know; but as
I descended from the hill, I could see no more of it, so I
gave it over; only I resolved to go no more out without a
prospective glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill to the end of the island,
where indeed I had never been before, I was presently con-
vinced that the seeing the print of a man's foot was not such
a strange thing in the island as I imagined; and but that it
was a special providence that I was cast upon the side of
the island where the savages never came, I should easily have
known that nothing was more frequent than 1or the canoes
from the main, when they happened to be a little too far
out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for harbor;
likewise, as they often met and fought in their canoes, the
victors, having taken any prisoners, would bring them over to
this shore, where according to their dreadful customs, being
all cannibals, they would kill and eat them; of which
hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said
above, being the S. W. point of the island, I was perfectly
confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for me to express
the horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls,
hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies; and particu-
larly, I observed a place where there had been a fire made,
and a circle dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where it is sup-
posed the savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman
feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that
I entertained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a
long while; all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts
of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror
of the degeneracy of human nature, which, though I had
heard of often, yet I never had so near a view of before; in
short, I turned away my face from the horrid spectacle; my
stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of fainting,
when Nature discharged the disorder from my stomach; and
having vomited with an uncommon violence, I was a little
relieved, but could not bear to stay in the place a moment;
so I gat me up the hill again with all the speed I could, and
walked on towards my own habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the island, I
stood still a while, as amazed, and then recovering myself, I
looked up with the utmost affection of my soul, and with
a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God thanks, that had cast
my first lot in a part of the world where I was distinguished
from sucH dreadful creatures as these, and that, though I had
esteemed my present condition very miserable, had yet given
me so many comforts in it, that I had still more to give
thanks for than to complain of; and this above all, that I had
even in this miserable condition been comforted with the
knowledge of Himself, and the hope of His blessing, which
was a felicity more than sufficiently equivalent to all the
misery which I had suffered, or could suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my castle,
and began to be much easier now, as to the safety of my cir-
cumstances, than ever I was before; for I observed that these
wretches never came to this island in search of what they
could get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not expecting,
anything here; and having often, no doubt, been up in the
covered woody part of it, without finding anything to their
purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eighteen years,
and never saw the least footsteps 'of human creature there
before; and I might be here eighteen more as entirely con-
cealed as I was now, if I did not discover myself to them,
which I had no manner of occasion to do, it being my only
business to keep myself entirely concealed where I was,
unless I found a better sort of creatures than cannibals to
make myself known to.
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the wretched
inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one another
up, that I continued pensive and sad, and kept close within
my own circle for almost two years after this: when I say
my own circle, I mean by it my three plantations, viz., my
castle, my country seat, which I called my bower, and my
enclosure in the woods; nor did I look after this for any
other use than as an enclosure for my goats; for the aversion
which Nature gave me to these hellish wretches was such,
that I was fearful of seeing them as of seeing the devil him-
self; nor did I so much as go to look after my boat in all
this time, but began rather to think of making me another;
for I could not think of ever making any more attempts to
bring the other boat round the island to me, lest I should
meet with some of these creatures at sea, in which, if I had
happened to have fallen into their hands, I knew what would
have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in
no danger of being discovered by these people, began to wear
off my uneasiness about them; and I began to live just in the
same composed manner as before; only with this difference,
that I used more caution, and kept my eyes more about me
than I did before, lest I should happen to be seen by any of
them; and particularly, I was more cautious of firing my
gun, lest any of them, being on the island, should happen to
hear of it; and it was therefore a very good providence to
me that I had furnished myself with a tame breed of goats,
that I needed not hunt any more about the woods, or shoot
at them; and if I did catch any of them after this, it was by
traps and snares, as I had done before; so that for two years
after this, I believe I never fired my gun once off, though
I never went out without it; and which was more, as I
had saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried
them out with me, or at least two of them, sticking them
in my goat-skin belt; also I furbished up one of the great
cutlashes that I had out of the ship, and made me a belt
to put it on also; so that I was now a most formidable
fellow to look at, when I went abroad, if you add to the
former description of myself the particular of two pistols
and a great broad sword hanging at my side in a belt, but
without a scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I
seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to my former
calm, sedate way of living. All these things tended to show-
ing me more and more how far my condition was from being
miserable, compared to some others; nay, to many other par-
ticulars1 of life, which it might have pleased God to have
made my lot. It put me upon reflecting how little repining
there would be among mankind at any condition of life, if
people would rather compare their condition with those that
are worse, in order to be thankful, than be always comparing
them with those which are better, to assist their murmur-
ings and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really many
things which I wanted, so indeed I thought that the frights
I had been in about these savage wretches, and the concern
I had been in for my own preservation, had taken off the
edge of my invention for my own conveniences; and I had
dropped a good design, which I had once bent my thoughts
too much upon; and that was, to try if I could not make some
of my barley into malt, and then try to brew myself some
beer: this was really a whimsical thought, and I reproved
myself often for the simplicity of it; for I presently saw
there would be the want of several things necessary to the
making my beer, that it would be impossible for me to
supply; as first, casks to preserve it in, which was a thing
that, as I have observed already, I could never compass; no,
though I spent not many days, but weeks, nay, months, in
attempting it, but to no purpose. In the next place, I had
no hops to make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper
or kettle to make it boil; and yet all these things notwith-
standing, I verily believe, had not these things intervened,
I mean the frights and terrors I was in about the savages, I
had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it to pass, too; for
I seldom gave anything over without accomplishing it, when
I once had it in my head enough to begin it.
But my invention now run quite another way; for night
and day I could think of nothing but how I might destroy
some of these monsters in their cruel, bloody entertainment,
and, if possible, save the victim they should bring hither to
3 particulars: i.e., particular situations.
destroy. It would take up a larger volume than this whole
work is intended to be, to set down all the contrivances I
hatched, or rather brooded upon in my thought, for the
destroying these creatures, or at least frighting them so as to
prevent their coming hither any more; but all was abortive;
nothing could be possible to take effect, unless I was to be
there to do it myself; and what could one man do among
them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them
together, with their darts, or their bows and arrows, with
which they could shoot as true to a mark as I could with my
gun?
Sometimes I contrived to dig1 a hole under the place
where they made their fire, and put in five or six pound of
gunpowder, which, when they kindled their fire, would con-
sequently take fire, and blow up all that was near it; but as
in the first place I should be very loath to waste so much
powder upon them, my store being now within the quantity
of one barrel, so neither could I be sure of its going off at
any certain time, when it might surprise them; and, at best,
that it would do little more than just blow the fire about
their ears and fright them, but not sufficient to make them
forsake the place; so I laid it aside, and then proposed that
I would place myself in ambush, in some convenient place,
with my three guns all double loaded, and in the middle of
their bloody ceremony let fly at them, when I should be sure
to kill or wound perhaps two or three at every shoot; and
then falling in upon them with my three pistols and my
sword, I made no doubt but that if there was twenty I should
kill them all: this fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks;
and I was so full of it, that I often dreamed of it, and some-
times that I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep.
I went so far with it in my imagination, that I employed
myself several days to find out proper places to put myself
in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them; and I went fre-
1 contrived to dig: i.e., formed a plan to dig; not "managed to dig."
quently to the place itself, which was now grown more
familiar to me; and especially while my mind was thus filled
with thoughts of revenge, and of a bloody putting twenty
or thirty of them to the sword, as I may call it, the horror
I had at the place, and at the signals of the barbarous
wretches devouring one another, abated1 my malice.
Well, at length I found a place in the side of the hill,
where I was satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any
of their boats coming, and might then, even before they
would be ready to come on shore, convey myself unseen into
thickets of trees, in one of which there was a hollow large
enough to conceal me entirely; and where* I might sit and
observe all their bloody doings, and take my full aim at
their heads, when they were so close together as that it would
be next to impossible that I should miss my shoot, or that I
could fail wounding three or four of them at the first shoot.
In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design, and
accordingly I prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowl-
ing-piece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace of slugs
each, and four or five smaller bullets about the size of pistol
bullets; and the fowling-piece I loaded with near a handful
of swan-shot, of the largest size; I also loaded my pistols
with about four bullets each; and in this posture2, well
provided with ammunition for a second and third charge, I
prepared myself for my expedition.
After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and in
my imagination put it in practice, I continually made my
tour every morning up to the top of the hill, which was from
my castle, as I called it, about three miles, or more, to see
if I could observe any boats upon the sea, coming near the
island, or standing over towards it; but I began to tire of
this hard duty, after I had for two or three months con-
• abated: blunted. Some modern texts change to "abetted," which seems to
fit the context better.
2 posture: i.e., in this condition or situation; with this equipment. Does not
refer to the position of the body.
stantly kept my watch, but came always back without any
discovery, there having not in all that time been the least
appearance, not only on or near the shore, but not on the
whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach every
way.
As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to look
out, so long also I kept up the vigor of my design, and my
spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable form for so
outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or thirty
naked savages, for an offence which I had not at all entered
into a discussion of in my thoughts, any farther than my
passions were at first fired by the horror I conceived at the
unnatural custom of that people of the country, who it seems
had been suffered by Providence, in His wise disposition of
the world, to have no other guide than that of their own
abominable and vitiated passions; and consequently were
left, and perhaps had been so for some ages, to act such
horrid things, and receive such dreadful customs, as nothing
but nature entirely abandoned of Heaven, and acted1 by
some hellish degeneracy, could have run them into: but now,
when, as I have said, I began to be weary of the fruitless
excursion which I had made so long and so far every morn-
ing in vain, so my opinion of the action itself began to alter,
and I began with cooler and calmer thoughts to consider
what it was I was going to engage in. What authority or
call I had to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these
men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit for so many
ages to suffer unpunished to go on, and to be, as it were, the
executioners of His judgments one upon another. How far
these people were offenders against me, and what right I had
to engage in the quarrel of that blood which they shed pro-
miscuously one upon another. I debated this very often with
myself thus: "How do I know what God Himself judges in
this particular case? It is certain these people either do not
1 acted: actuated.
commit this as a crime; it is not against their own consciences
reproving, or their light1 reproaching them. They do not
know it to be an offence, and then commit it in defiance of
Divine justice, as we do in almost all the sins we commit.
They think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken in war,
than we do to kill an ox; nor to eat human flesh, than we do
to eat mutton."
When I had considered this a little, it followed neces-
sarily that I was certainly in the wrong in it; that these
people were not murtherers, in the sense that I had before
condemned them in my thoughts, any more than those Chris-
tians were murtherers who often put to death the prisoners
taken in battle, or more frequently, upon many occasions,
put whole troops of men to the sword, without giving
quarter, though they threw down their arms and submitted.
In the next place it occurred to me, that albeit the usage
they thus gave one another was thus brutish and inhuman,
yet it was really nothing to me: these people had done me no
injury. That if they attempted me, or I saw it necessary
for my immediate preservation to fall upon them, something
might be said for it; but that as* I was yet out of their
power, and they had really no knowledge of me, and conse-
quently no design upon me, therefore* it could not be just
for me to fall upon them. That this would justify the con-
duct of the Spaniards in all their barbarities practised in
America, and* where they destroyed millions of these people,
who, however they were idolaters and barbarians, and had
several bloody and barbarous rites in their customs, such as
sacrificing human bodies to their idols, were yet, as to the
Spaniards, very innocent people; and that the rooting them
out of the country is spoken of with the utmost abhorrence
and detestation by even the Spaniards themselves, at this
time, and by all other Christian nations of Europe, as a mere
butchery, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifi-
i light: spiritual illumination, the theological "light from above."
able either to God or man; and such as for which the very
name of a Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and terrible
to all people of humanity, or of Christian compassion; as if
the kingdom of Spain were particularly eminent for the
product of a race of men who were without principles of
tenderness, or the common bowels of pity to the miserable,
which is reckoned to be a mark of generous temper in the
mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a
kind of a full stop; and I began by little and little to be off
of my design, and to conclude I had taken wrong measures
in my resolutions to attack the savages; that it was not my
business to meddle with them, unless they first attacked me,
and this it was my business if possible to prevent; but that
if I were discovered and attacked, then I knew my duty.
On the other hand, I argued with myself that this
really was the way not to deliver myself, but entirely to ruin
and destroy myself; for unless I was sure to kill every one
that not only should be on shore at that time, but that should
ever come on shore afterwards, if but one of them escaped
to tell their country people what had happened, they would
come over again by thousands to revenge the death of their
fellows, and I should only bring upon myself a certain
destruction, which at present I had no manner of occasion for.
Upon the whole I concluded that neither in principles
or in policy I ought one way or other to concern myself in
this affair. That my business was by all possible means to
conceal myself from them, and not to leave the least signal
to them to guess by that there were any living creatures
upon the island; I mean of human shape.
Religion joined in with this prudential1, and I was con-
vinced now, many ways, that I was perfectly out of my duty,
when I was laying all my bloody schemes for the destruction
of innocent creatures, I mean innocent as to me: as to the
1 prudential: An adjective used as a noun; cf. "credential." It = prudent con-
sideration or resolve.
crimes they were guilty of towards one another, I had
nothing to do with them; they were national1, and I ought
to leave them to the justice of God, who is the Governor of
nations, and knows how by national punishments to make a
just retribution for national offences, and to bring public
judgments upon those who offend in a public manner, by
such ways as best pleases Him.
This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was a
greater satisfaction to me than that I had not been suffered
to do a thing which I now saw so much reason to believe
would have been no less a sin than that of wilful murther,
if I had committed it; and I gave most humble thanks on
my knees to God, that had thus delivered me from blood-
guiltiness; beseeching Him to grant me the protection of
His providence, that I might not fall into the hands of the
barbarians, or that I might not lay my hands upon them,
unless I had a more clear call from Heaven to do it, in
defence of my own life.
In this disposition I continued for near a year after this;
and so far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon
these wretches, that in all that time I never once went up
the hill to see whether there were any of them in sight, or
to know whether any of them had been on shore there or
not, that I might not be tempted to renew any of my con-
trivances against them, or be provoked by any advantage
which might present itself, to fall upon them: only this I
did; I went and removed my boat, which I had on the
other side the island, and carried it down to the east end
of the whole island, where I ran it into a little cove which
I found under some high rocks, and where I knew, by
reason of the currents, the savages durst not, at least would
not, come with their boats upon any account whatsoever.
With my boat I carried away everything that I had left
there belonging to her, though not necessary for the bare
• j is ., ... ....
going thither, viz., a mast and sail which I had made for
her, and a thing like an anchor, but indeed which could not
be called either anchor or grappling; however, it was the
best I could make of its kind: all these I removed, that there
might not be the least shadow of any discovery, or any
appearance of any boat, or of any human habitation upon
the island.
Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than
ever, and seldom went from my cell, other than upon my
constant employment, viz., to milk my she goats, and
manage my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite
on the other part of the island, was quite out of danger;
for certain it is, that these savage people who sometimes
haunted this island, never came with any thoughts of find-
ing anything here, and consequently never wandered off from
the coast; and I doubt not but they might have been several
times on shore after my apprehensions of them had made me
cautious, as well as before; and indeed, I looked back with
some horror upon the thoughts of what my condition would
have been, if I had chopped1 upon them and been discovered
before that, when naked and unarmed except with one gun,
and that loaden often only with small shot, I walked every-
where, peeping and peeping about the island to see what I
could get; what a surprise should I have been in, if, when I
discovered the print of a man's foot, I had, instead of that,
seen fifteen or twenty savages, and found them pursuing
me, and by the swiftness of their running, no possibility of
my escaping them!
The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul within
me, and distressed my mind so much that I could not soon
recover it, to think what I should have done, and how I
not only should not have been able to resist them, but even
should not have had presence of mind enough to do what I
might have done, much less what now, after so much con-
sider chopped: come suddenly. ™
sideration and preparation, I might be able to do: indeed,
after serious thinking of these things, I should* be very
melancholy, and sometimes it would last a great while; but
I resolved it, at last, all into thankfulness to that Providence
which had delivered me from so many unseen dangers, and
had kept me from those mischiefs which I could no way have
been the agent in delivering myself from, because I had not
the least notion of any such thing depending1, or the least
supposition of it being possible.
This renewed a contemplation which often had come to
my thoughts in former time, when first I began to see the
merciful dispositions of Heaven, in the dangers we run
through in this life. How wonderfully we are delivered,
when we know nothing of it. How, when we are in a
quandary (as we call it), a doubt or hesitation, whether to
go this way or that way, a secret hint shall direct us this
way, when we intended to go that way; nay, when sense,
our own inclination, and perhaps business, has called to go
the other way, yet a strange impression upon the mind, from
we know not what springs, and by we know not what power,
shall overrule us to go this way; and it shall afterwards
appear, that had we gone that way which we should have
gone2; and even to our imagination ought to have gone, we
should have been ruined and lost: upon these and many like
reflections, I afterwards made it a certain rule with me,
that whenever I found those secret hints or pressings of my
mind, to doing or not doing anything that presented, or to
going this way or that way, I never failed to obey the secret
dictate; though I knew no other reason for it than that such
a pressure, or such a hint, hung upon my mind: I could give
many examples of the success of this conduct in the course
of my life, but more especially in the latter part of my
inhabiting this unhappy island; besides many occasions which
1 depending: impending.
2should have gone: i.e., were to have gone; not "ought to have gone," as is
shown by the following clause.
it is very likely I might have taken notice of, if I had seen
with the same eyes than that I saw with now; but 't is never
too late to be wise; and I cannot but advise all considering
men, whose lives are attended with such extraordinary inci-
dents as mine, or even though not so extraordinary, not to
slight such secret intimations of Providence, let them come
from what invisible intelligence they will,1 that I shall not
discuss, and perhaps cannot account for; but certainly they
are a proof of the converse of spirits, and the secret communi-
cation between those embodied and those unembodied, and
such a proof as can never be withstood: of which I shall
have occasion to give some very remarkable instances in the
remainder of my solitary residence in this dismal place.
I believe the reader of this will not think strange, if I
confess that these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in,
and the concern that was now upon me, put an end to all
invention, and to all the contrivances that I had laid for
my future accommodations and conveniences. I had the
care of my safety more now upon my hands than that of my
food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood
now, for fear the noise I should make should be heard;
much less would I fire a gun, for the same reason: and above
all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the
smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day, should
betray me; and for this reason I removed that part of my
business which required fire, such as burning of pots and
pipes, &c, into my new apartment in the woods, where after
I had been some time, I found, to my unspeakable consola-
tion, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast
way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the
mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture in, nor, indeed,
1 invisible intelligence they will, that, etc.: Defoe was very much interested in
apparitions and presentiments, as well as in coincidences; cf. the autobiographical
passage in his Appealto Honour and Justice (Aitken, VIII. 170),—"But Providence,
which had other work for me to do, placed a secret aversion in my mind to quitting
England ..." Modern editions begin a new sentence at "that," making the
word a demonstrative pronoun, but it is clearly a relative pronoun, equivalent to
"which."
would any man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing
so much as a safe retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great
rock, where, by mere accident (I would say, if I did not
see abundant reason to ascribe all such things now to Provi-
dence), I was cutting down some thick branches of trees to
make charcoal; and before I go on, I must observe the
reason of my making this charcoal, which was thus:
I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as I
said before; and yet I could not live there without baking
my bread, cooking my meat, &c.; so I contrived to burn some
wood here, as I had seen done in England, under turf, till it
became chark, or dry coal; and then putting the fire out, I pre-
served the coal to carry home, and perform the other services
which fire was wanting for at home, without danger of smoke.
But this is by the bye: while I was cutting down some
wood here, I perceived that, behind a very thick branch of
low brushwood, or underwood, there was a kind of hollow
place; I was curious to look into it, and getting with diffi-
culty into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty large; that
is to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps
another with me; but I must confess to you, I made more
haste out than I did in, when, looking farther into the place,
and which was perfectly dark1, I saw two broad shining
eyes of some creature, whether devil or man I knew not,
which twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the cave's
mouth shining directly in and making the reflection.
However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and
began to call myself a thousand fools, and tell myself that
he that was afraid to see the devil was not fit to live twenty
years in an island all alone; and that I durst to believe there
was nothing in this cave that was more frightful than myself;
upon this, plucking up my courage, I took up a great fire-
brand, and in I rushed again, with the stick flaming in my
1 perfectly dark: If it was perfectly dark, the goat's eyes could not be seen.
hand; I had not gone three steps in, but I was almost as
much frighted as I was before; for I heard a very loud sigh,
like that of a man in some pain, and it was followed by a
broken noise, as if of words half expressed, and then a deep
sigh again: I stepped back, and was indeed struck with such
a surprise that it put me into a cold sweat; and if I had had a
hat on my head, I will not answer for it that my hair might
not have lifted it off. But still plucking up my spirits as. well
as I could, and encouraging myself a little with considering
that the power and presence of God was everywhere, and
was able to protect me, upon this I stepped forward again,
and by the light of the firebrand, holding it up a little over
my head, I saw lying on the ground a most monstrous,
frightful old he goat, just making his will, as we say, and
gasping for life, and dying indeed of mere old age.
I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and
he essayed to get up, but was not able to raise himself; and I
thought with myself, he might even lie there; for if he had
frighted me so, he would certainly fright any of the savages,
if any of them should be so hardy as to come in there-while
he had any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to
look round me, when I found the cave was but very small,
that is to say, it might be about twelve foot over, but in no
manner of shape, either round or square, no hands having
ever been employed in making it but those of mere Nature:
I observed also that there was a place at the farther side of it
that went in farther, but was so low that it required me to
creep upon my hands and knees to go into it, and whither I
went I knew not; so, having no candle, I gave it over for
some time, but resolved to come again the next day, pro-
vided with candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of
the lock of one of the muskets, with some wild-fire1 in the pan.
1 wild-fire: A combustible composition, like Greek fire, which blazes fiercely,
and is difficult to quench. Cf. Farther Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, p. 196:
"... they presently made some wild-fire, as we call it, by wetting a little
powder in the palms of their hands . . ."
Accordingly, the next day I came -provided with six
large candles of my own making, for I made very good
candles now of goat's tallow; and going into this low place,
I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have said, almost
ten yards; which, by the way, I thought was a venture bold
enough, considering that I knew not how far it might go,
nor what was beyond it. When I was got through the
strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty
foot; but never was such a glorious sight seen in the island,
I dare say, as it was to look round the sides and roof of this
vault or cave; the walls reflected 100 thousand lights to me
from my two candles; what it was in the* rock, whether
diamonds1, or any other precious stones, or gold, which I
rather supposed it to be, I knew not.
The place I was in was a most delightful cavity or grotto
of its kind, as could be expected, though perfectly dark; the
floor was dry and level, and had a sort of small loose gravel
upon it, so that there was no nauseous or venomous creature
to be seen, neither was there any damp or wet on the sides or
roof: the only difficulty in it was the entrance, which, how-
ever, as it was a place of security, and such a retreat as I
wanted, I thought that was a convenience; so that I was
really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any
delay, to bring some of those things which I was most anx-
ious about to this place; particularly, I resolved to bring
hither my magazine of powder, and all my spare arms, viz.,
two fowling-pieces, for I had three in all; and three muskets,
for of them I had eight in all; so I kept at my castle only
five, which stood ready mounted like pieces of cannon, on my
outmost fence, and were ready also to take out upon any
expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I took
occasion to open the barrel of powder which I took up out of
the sea, and which had been wet; and I found that the water
• diamonds, etc: Defoe forgot about the precious stones, not mentioning them
again.
had penetrated about three or four inches into the powder
on every side, which, caking and growing hard, had preserved
the inside like a kernel in a shell; so that I had near sixty
pound of very good powder in the centre of the cask, and
this was an agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I
carried all away thither, never keeping above two or three
pound of powder with me in my castle, for fear of a surprise
of any kind: I also carried thither all the lead I had left
for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which
are* said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none
could come at them; for I persuaded myself, while I was
here, if 500 savages were to hunt me, they could never find
me out; or if they did, they would not venture to attack me
here.
The old goat who I found expiring died in the mouth of
the cave the next day after I made this discovery; and I
found it much easier to dig a great hole there, and throw him
in and cover him with earth, than to drag him out; so I
interred him there, to prevent the offence to my nose.
I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in this
island, and was so naturalized to the place and to the manner
of living, that, could I have but enjoyed the certainty that
no savages would come to the place to disturb me, I could
have been content to have capitulated for spending the rest
of my time there, even to the last moment, till I had laid me
down and died, like the old goat in the cave. I had also
arrived to some little diversions and amusements, which made
the time pass more pleasantly with me a great deal than it
did before; as first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before,
to speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so articu-
lately and plain, that it was very pleasant to me; and he
lived with me no less than six and twenty years: how long he
might live afterwards I know not, though I know they have
a notion in the Brazils that they live a hundred years; per-
haps poor Poll1 may be alive there still, calling after poor
Robin Crusoe to this day. I wish no Englishman the ill
luck to come there and hear him; but if he did, he would
certainly believe it was the devil. My dog was a very pleas-
ant and loving companion to me for no less than sixteen years
of my time, and then died of mere old age; as for my cats,
they multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree, that I was
obliged to shoot several of them at first, to keep them from
devouring me and all I had; but at length, when the two old
ones I brought with me were gone, and after some time
continually driving them from me, and letting them have no
provision with me, they all ran wild into the woods, except
two or three favorites, which I kept tame, and whose young,
when they had any, I always drowned; and these were part
of my family: besides these, I always kept two or three house-
hold kids about me, who I taught to feed out of my hand;
and I had two more parrots, which talked pretty well, and
would all call "Robin Crusoe," but none like my first; nor
indeed did I take the pains with any of them that I had done
with him. I had also several tame sea-fowls, whose names
I know not, who I caught upon the shore, and cut their
wings; and the little stakes which I had planted before my
castle wall being now grown up to a good thick grove, these
fowls all lived among these low trees, and bred there, which
was very agreeable to me; so that, as I said above, I began
to be very well contented with the life I led, if it might but
have been secured from the dread of the savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be amiss
for all people who shall meet with my story to make this just
observation from it, viz., how frequently, in the course of
our lives, the evil which in itself we seek most to shun, and
which, when we are fallen into it, is the most dreadful to us,
is oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance, by
which alone we can be raised again from the affliction we are
i poor Poll: Cf. p. 339.
fallen into. I could give many examples of this in the course
of my unaccountable life; but in nothing was it more partic-
ularly remarkable than in the circumstances of my last years
of solitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I said above, in
my twenty-third year; and this being the southern solstice,
for winter I cannot call it, was the particular time of my
harvest, and required my being pretty much abroad in the
fields, when, going out pretty early in the morning, even
before it was thorough daylight, I was surprised with seeing
a light of some fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of
about two mile towards the end of the island where I had
observed some savages had been, as before: but not on the
other side; but, to my great affliction, it was on my side of
the island.1
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stepped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might
be surprised; and yet I had no more peace within, from the
apprehensions I had that if these savages, in rambling over
the island, should find my corn standing or cut, or any of my
works and improvements, they would immediately conclude
that there were people in the place, and would then never
give over till they had found me out: in this extremity I went
back directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder after me,
and made all things without look as wild and natural as I
could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defence; I loaded all my cannon, as I called them;
that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted upon my
new fortification, and all my pistols, and resolved to defend
myself to the last gasp, not forgetting seriously to commend
myself to the Divine protection, and earnestly to pray to God
to deliver me out of the hands of the barbarians; and in this
1 my side of the island: i.e., the south side. Crusoe's dwelling was near the
eastern extremity of the south side; the savages landed considerably to the west
of him.
posture I continued about two hours; but began to be impa-
tient for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out.
After sitting a while longer, and musing what I should
do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance
any longer; so setting up my ladder to the side of the hill,
where there was a flat place, as I observed before, and then
pulling the ladder up after me, I set it up again, and mounted
to the top of the hill; and pulling out my perspective glass,
which I had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on my
belly on the ground, and began to look for the place; I pres-
ently found there was no less than nine naked savages sitting
round a small fire they had made, not to warm them, for they
had no need of that, the weather being extreme hot, but, as
I supposed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of human
flesh which they had brought with them, whether alive or
dead I could not know.
They had two canoes with them, which they had haled
up upon the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed
to me to wait for the return of the flood to go away again;
it is not easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me
into, especially seeing them come on my side the island,
and so near me too; but when I observed their coming must
be always with the current of the ebb, I. began afterwards
to be more sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might
go abroad with safety all the time of the tide of flood, if
they were not on shore before: and having made this observa-
tion, I went abroad about my harvest work with the more
composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide made
to the westward, I saw them' all take boat and row (or
paddle, as we call it) all away: I should have observed, that
for an hour and more before they went off they went to
dancing, and I could easily discern their postures and gestures
by my glasses: I could not perceive, by my nicest observation,
but that they were stark naked, and had not the least cov-
ering upon them; but whether they were men or women,
that I could not distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns
upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle, and my
great sword by my side, without a scabbard, and with all the
speed I was able to make, I went away to the hill where I
had discovered the first appearance of all; and as soon as 1
gat thither, which was not less than two hours, for I could
not go apace, being so loaden with arms as I was, I perceived
there had been three canoes more of savages on that place;
and looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea together,
making over for the main.1
This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when, going
down to the shore, I could see the marks of horror which
the dismal work they had been about had left behind it, viz.,
the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh of human bodies
eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and
sport: I was so filled with indignation at the sight, that I
began now to premeditate the destruction of the next that I
saw there, let them be who or how many soever.
It seemed evident to me that the visits which they thus
make to this island are not very frequent; for it was above
fifteen months before any more of them came on shore there
again; that is to say, I neither saw them or any footsteps or
signals of them in all that time; for as to the rainy seasons,
then they are sure not to come abroad, at least not so far;
yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the
constant apprehensions I was in of their coming upon me by
surprise; from whence I observe that the expectation of evil
is more bitter than the suffering, especially if there is no room
to shake off that expectation or those apprehensions.
During all this time I was in the murthering humor, and
took up most of my hours, which should have been better
employed, in contriving how to circumvent and fall upon
1 the main: i.e., the mainland, which lay to the southwest and west; cf. below,
p. 270.
that, standing on the other side, he looked at the other, but
went no further, and soon after went softly back again,
which, as it happened, was very well for him in the main.
I observed that the two who swam were yet more than
twice as long swimming over the creek as the fellow was
that fled from them: it came now very warmly upon my
thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was my time to
get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant; and
that I was called plainly by Providence to save this poor
creature's life; I immediately run down the ladders with all
possible expedition, fetches * my two guns, for they were both
but at the foot of the ladders, as I observed above, and
getting up again with the same haste to the top of the hill, I
crossed toward the sea; and having a very short cut, and
all down hill, clapped myself in the way between the pur-
suers and the pursued, hallowing aloud to him that fled,
who, looking back, was at first perhaps as much frighted at
me as at them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to come
back; and, in the mean time, I slowly advanced towards the
two that followed; then rushing at once upon the foremost,
I knocked him down with the stock of my piece; I was loath
to fire, because I would not have the rest hear; though, at
that distance, it would not have been easily heard, and being
out of sight of the smoke, too, they would not have easily
known what to make of it: having knocked this fellow down,
the other who pursued with him stopped, as if he had been
frighted, and I advanced apace towards him; but as I came
nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow and arrow, and
was fitting it to shoot at me; so I was then necessitated to
shoot at him first, which I did, and killed him at the first
shoot; the poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though he
saw both his enemies fallen and killed, as he thought, yet
was so frighted with the fire and noise of my piece, that he
stood stock still, and neither came forward or went back-
ward, though he seemed rather inclined to fly still than to
come on; I hollowed again to him, and made signs to come
forward, which he easily understood, and came a little way,
then stopped again, and then a little further, and stopped
again; and I could then perceive that he stood trembling,
as if he had been taken prisoner, and had just been to be
killed, as his two enemies were; I beckoned him again to
come to me, and gave him all the signs of encouragement
that I could think of, and he came nearer and nearer, kneel-
ing down every ten or twelve steps in token of acknowledg-
ment for my saving his life: I smiled at him, and looked
pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer; at
length he came close to me, and then he kneeled down again,
kissed the ground, and laid his head upon the ground, and
taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his head; this it
seems was in token of swearing to be my slave forever; I
took him up, and made much of him, and encouraged him
all I could. But there was more work to do yet, for I per-
ceived the savage who I knocked down was not killed, but
stunned with the blow, and began to come to himself; so I
pointed to him, and showing him the savage, that he was
not dead; upon this he spoke some words to me, and though
I could not understand them, yet I thought they were
pleasant to hear, for they were the first sound of a man's
voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for above twenty-
five years. But there was no time for such reflections now;
.the savage who was knocked down recovered himself so far
as to sit up upon the ground, and I perceived that my savage
began'to be afraid ; but when I saw that, I presented my other
piece at the man, as if I would shoot him; upon this my
savage, for so I call him now, made a motion to me to lend
him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side, so I
did: he no sooner had it but he runs to his enemy, and at
one blow cut off his head as cleverly, no executioner in
Germany could have done it sooner or better; which I
thought very strange for one who, I had reason to believe,
never saw a sword in his life before, except their own wooden
swords; however, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they
make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood
is so hard, that they will cut off heads even with them, ay,
and arms, and that at one blow too; when he had done this,
he comes laughing to me in sign of triumph, and brought
me the sword again, and with abundance of gestures which
I did not understand, laid it down, with the head of the
savage that he had killed, just before me.
But that which astonished him most was to know how I
had killed the other Indian so far off; so pointing to him,
he made signs to me to let him go to him; so I bade him go,
as well as I could; when he came to him, he stood like one
amazed, looking at him, turned him first on one side, then
on t'other, looked at the wound the bullet had made, which
it seems was just in his breast, where it had made a hole,
and no great quantity of blood had followed, but he had
bled inwardly, for he was quite dead; he took up his bow
and arrows, and came back; so I turned to go away, and
beckoned to him to follow me, making signs to him that
more might come after them.
Upon this he signed to me that he should bury them
with sand, that they might not be seen by the rest if they
followed; and so I made signs again to him to do so; he
fell to work, and in an instant he had scraped a hole in the
sand with his hands, big enough to bury the first in, and
then dragged him into it, and covered him, and did so also
by the other; I believe he had buried them both in a quarter
of an hour; then calling him away, I carried him, not to
my castle, but quite away to my cave, on the farther part
of the island; so I did not let my dream come to pass in that
part, viz., that he came into my grove for shelter.
Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat,
and a draught of water, which I found he was indeed in great
distress for, by his running; and having refreshed him, I
made signs for him to go lie down and sleep, pointing to a
place where I had laid a great parcel of rice straw, and a
blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself some-
times; so the poor creature laid down, and went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made,
with straight strong * limbs, not too large, tall, and well
shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He
had a very good countenance, not a fierce and surly aspect,
but seemed to have something very manly in his face; and
yet he had all the sweetness and softness of an European in
his countenance too, especially when he smiled. His hair
was long and black, not curled like wool; his forehead very
high and large, and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness
in his eyes. The color of his skin was not quite black, but
very tawny; and yet not of an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny,
as the Brazilians and Virginians and other natives of
America are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive
color, that had in it something very agreeable, though not
very easy to describe. His face was round and plump; his
nose small, not flat like the negroes; a very good mouth, thin
lips, and his fine teeth well set, and white as ivory. After
he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour, he
waked again, and comes out of the cave to me; for I had
been milking my goats, which I had in the enclosure just
by: when he espied me, he came running to me, laying him-
self down again upon the ground, with all the possible signs
of an humble, thankful disposition, making a many antic
gestures to show it: at last he lays his head flat upon the
ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon his
head, as he had done before; and after this, made all the
signs to me of subjection, servitude, and submission imagin-
able, to let me know how he would serve me as long as he
lived; I understood him in many things, and let him know I
was very well pleased with him; in a little time I began to
speak to him, and teach him to speak to me; and first I
made him know his name should be Friday, which was the
day I saved his life; I called him so for the memory of the
time; I likewise taught him to say Master, and then let him
know that was to be my name; I likewise taught him to
say Yes and No, and to know the meaning of them; I gave
him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink
it before him, and sop my bread in it; and I gave him a
cake of bread to do the like, which he quickly complied
with, and made signs that it was very good for him.
I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as it
was day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let him
know I would give him some clothes, at which he seemed
very glad, for he was stark naked: as we went by the place
where he had buried the two men, he pointed exactly to the
place, and shewed me the marks that he had made to find
them again, making signs to me that we should dig them up
again and eat them; at this I appeared very angry, expressed
my abhorrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the
thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand to him to come
away, which he did immediately, with great submission. I
then led him up to the top of the hill, to see if his enemies
were gone; and pulling out my glass, I looked, and saw
plainly the place where they had been, but no appearance of
them or of their canoes; so that it was plain they were gone,
and had left their two comrades behind them, without any
search after them.
But I was not content with this discovery; but having
now more courage, and consequently more curiosity, I takes
my man Friday with me, giving him the sword in his hand,
with the bow and arrows at his back, which I found he could
use very dexterously, making him carry one gun for me,
and I two for myself, and away we marched to the place
where these creatures had been; for I had a mind now to get
some fuller intelligence of them: when I came to the place,
my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart sunk
within me, at the horror of the spectacle: indeed, it was a
dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, though Friday made
nothing of it: the place was covered with human bones, the
ground dyed with their blood, great pieces of flesh left here
and there, half eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, in short,
all the tokens of the triumphant feast they had been making
there, after a victory over their enemies: I saw three skulls,
five hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet, and
abundance of other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his
signs, made me understand that they brought over four
prisoners to feast upon; that three of them were eaten up,
and that he, pointing to himself, was the fourth: that there
had been a great battle between them and their next king,
whose subjects it seems he had been one of; and that they
had taken a great number of prisoners, all which were
carried to several places by those that had taken them in
the fight, in order to feast upon them, as was done here by
these wretches upon those they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and
whatever remained, and lay them together on a heap, and
make a great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes: I found
Friday had still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh,
and was still a cannibal in his nature; but I discovered1 so
much abhorrence at the very thoughts of it, and at the least
appearance of it, that he durst not discover it; for I had by
some means let him know that I would kill him if he
offered it.
When we had done this, we came back to our castle, and
there I fell to work for my man Friday; and, first of all, I
gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the
poor gunner's chest I mentioned, and which I found in the
wreck, and which with a little alteration fitted him very
well; then I made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well as my
skill would allow, and I was now grown a tolerable good
1 discovered: showed.
tailor; and I gave him a cap which I had made of a hare-
skin, very convenient, and fashionable enough; and thus he
was clothed, for the present, tolerably well, and was mighty
well pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his
master: it is true, he went awkardly in these things at
first; wearing the drawers was very awkard to him, and
the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders and the
inside of his arms; but a little easing them where he com-
plained they hurt him, and using himself to them, at length
he took to them very well.
The next day after I came home to my hutch with him,
I began to consider where I should lodge him; and that I
might do well for him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I
made a little tent for him in the vacant place between my
two fortifications, in the inside of the last, and in the outside
of the first; and as there was a door or entrance there into
my cave, I made a formal framed door case, and a door to
it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little within the
entrance; and causing the door to open on the inside, I
barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders too; so that
Friday could no way come at me in the inside of my inner-
most wall, without making so much noise in getting over,
that it must needs waken me; for my first wall had now a
complete roof over it of long poles, covering all my tent, and
leaning up to the side of the hill, which was again laid cross
with smaller sticks instead of laths, and then thatched over
a great thickness with the rice straw, which was strong like
reeds; and at the hole or place which was left to go in or
out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap-door, which,
if it had been attempted on the outside, would not have
opened at all, but would have fallen down and made a great
noise; and as to weapons, I took them all in to my side
every night.
But I needed none of all this precaution; for never man
had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday
was to me; without passions, sullenness, or designs, perfectly
obliged and engaged1; his very affections were tied to me,
like those of a child to a father; and I dare say he would
have sacrificed his life for the saving mine, upon any occa-
sion whatsoever; the many testimonies he gave me of this put
it out of doubt, and soon convinced me that I needed to use
no precautions as to my safety on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that
with wonder, that however it had pleased God in His provi-
dence, and in the government of the works of His hands, to
take from so great a part of the world of His creatures the
best uses to which their faculties and the powers of their
souls are adapted, yet that He has bestowed upon them the
same powers, the same reason, the same affections, the same
sentiments of kindness and obligation, the same passions and
resentments of wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, sincerity,
fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good and receiving
good that He has given to us; and that when He pleases to
offer to them occasions of exerting these, they are as ready,
nay, more ready, to apply them to the right uses for which
they were bestowed than we are: and this made me very
melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions
presented, how mean a use we make of all these, even though
we have these powers enlightened by the great lamp of
instruction, the Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of His
word added to our understanding; and why it has pleased
God to hide the like saving knowledge from so many millions
of souls, who, if I might judge by this poor savage, would
make a much better use of it than we did.
From hence, I sometimes was led too far to invade the
sovereignty of Providence, and, as it were, arraign the justice
of so arbitrary a disposition of things, that should hide that
light from some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect a
like duty from both: but I shut it up, and checked my
1 obliged and engaged: under obligation.
thoughts with this conclusion: 1st, that we did not know by
what light and law these should be condemned; but that as
God was necessarily, and by the nature of His being,
infinitely holy and just, so it could not be but that if these
creatures were all sentenced to absence from Himself, it was
on account of sinning against that light which, as the
Scripture says, was a law to themselves, and by such rules as
their consciences would acknowledge to be just, though the
foundation was not discovered to us; and, 2d, that still, as
we are all the clay in the hand of the Potter1, no vessel
could say to Him, "Why hast Thou formed me thus?"
But to return to my new companion: I was greatly
delighted with him, and made it my business to teach him
everything that was proper to make him useful, handy, and
helpful; but especially to make him speak, and understand
me when I spake, and he was the aptest scholar that ever
was, and particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent,
and so pleased when he could but understand me, or make
me understand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk
to him; and now my life began to be so easy that I began
to say to myself, that could I but have been safe from more
savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from the place
while I lived.
After I had been two or three days returned to my castle,
I thought that, in order to bring Friday off from his horrid
way of feeding, and from the relish of a cannibal's stomach,
I ought to let him taste other flesh; so I took him out with
me one morning to the woods: I went, indeed, intending to
kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring him home and
dress it. But as I was going, I saw a she goat lying down
in the shade, and two young kids sitting by her; I catched
hold of Friday. "Hold," says I, "stand still;" and made
signs to him not to stir; immediately I presented my piece,
shot, and killed one of the kids. The poor creature, who
1 clay in the hand of the Potter: Cf. Jeremiah xviii. 6.
had, at a distance indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy,
but did not know or could imagine, how it was done, was
sensibly surprised, trembled, and shook, and looked so amazed
that I thought he would have sunk down. He did not see
the kid I shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up
his waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded, and, as I found
presently, thought I was resolved to kill him; for he came
and kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees, said a
great many things I did not understand; but I could easily
see that the meaning was to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do
him no harm, and taking him up by the hand, laughed at
him, and pointed to the kid which I had killed, beckoned
to him to run and fetch it, which he did; and while he was
wondering, and looking to see how the creature was killed, I
loaded my gun again, and by and by I saw a great fowl,
like a hawk, sit upon a tree within shot; so, to let Friday
understand a little what I would do, I called him to me
again, pointed* at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot,
though I thought it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to the
parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground under the parrot,
to let him see I would make it fall, I made him understand
that I would shoot and kill that bird; accordingly I fired,
and bade him look, and immediately he saw the parrot fall;
he stood like one frighted again, notwithstanding all I had
said to him; and I found he was the more amazed because
he did not see me put anything into the gun, but thought
that there must be some wonderful fund of death and
destruction in that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or
anything near or far off; and the astonishment this created
in him was such as could not wear off for a long time; and
I believe if I would have let him, he would have worshipped
me and my gun: as for the gun itself, he would not so much
as touch it for several days after; but would speak to it and
talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by him-
self; which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to desire it
not to kill him.
Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I
pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which
he did, but stayed some time; for the parrot, not being
quite dead, was fluttered away a good way off from the
place where she fell; however, he found her, took her up, and
brought her to me; and as I had perceived his ignorance
about the gun before, I took this advantage to charge the
gun again, and not let him see me do it, that I might be
ready for any other mark that might present; but nothing
more offered at that time; so I brought home the kid, and
the same evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as well
as I could; and having a pot for that purpose, I boiled or
stewed some of the flesh, and made some very good broth;
and after I had begun to eat some, I gave some to my man,
who seemed very glad of it, and liked it very well; but that
which was strangest to him was to see me eat salt1 with it;
he made a sign to me that the salt was not good to eat, and
putting a little into his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it,
and would spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth with
fresh water after it; on the other hand, I took some meat
in my mouth without salt, and I pretended to spit and
sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the salt;
but it would not do; he would never care for salt with his
meat, or in his broth; at least, not a great while2, and then
but a ver}i little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was
resolved to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of
the kid: this I did by hanging it before the fire in a string, as
I had seen many people do in England, setting two poles
up, one on each side the fire, and one cross on the top, and
tying the string to the cross stick, letting the meat turn
i salt: An inconsistency; cf. p. 166.
1 not a great while: i.e., not for a great while.
continually: this Friday admired1 very much; but when he
come to taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how
well he liked it, that I could not but understand him; and
at last he told me, he would never eat man's flesh any more2,
which I was very glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating some corn
out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do3, as I observed
before, and he soon understood how to do it as well as I,
especially after he had seen what the meaning of it was, and
that it was to make bread of; for after that I let him see
me make my bread, and bake it too, and in a little time
Friday was able to do all the work for me, as well as I could
do it myself.
I began now to consider that, having two mouths to
feed instead of one, I must provide more ground for my
harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to
do; so I marked out a larger piece of land, and began to
fence in the same manner as before, in which Friday not
only worked very willingly and very hard, but did it very
cheerfully: and I told him what it was for; that it was
for corn to make more bread, because he was now with me,
and that I might have enough for him and myself too: he
appeared very sensible of that part, and let me know that he
thought I had much more labor upon me on his account
than I had for myself; and that he would work the harder
for me, if I would tell him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life»I led in
this place; Friday began to talk pretty well, and under-
stand the names of almost everything I had occasion to
call for, and of every place I had to send him to, and talked
a great deal to me; so that, in short, I began now to have
some use for my tongue again, which indeed I had very little
1 admired: wondered at.
2 never eat man's flesh any more: The novelty of this meal for Friday must have
been due either to its being cooked extraordinarily well, or to the fact that the
savages were largely vegetarians.
3 the manner 1 used to do: the manner in which I was accustomed to do it.
occasion for before; that is to say, about speech; besides the
pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in
the fellow, himself; his simple, unfeigned honesty appeared
to me more and more every day, and I began really to love
the creature; and on his side I believe he loved me more
than it was possible for him ever to love anything before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering inclina-
tion to his own country again, and having learned him
English so well that he could answer me almost any ques-
tions, I asked him whether the nation that he belonged to
never conquered in battle. At which he smiled and said,
"Yes, yes, we always fight the better;" that is, he meant,
always get the better in fight; and so we began the follow-
ing discourse: "You always fight the better," said I; "how
came you to be taken prisoner then, Friday?"
Friday. My nation beat much, for all that.
Master. How beat? If your nation beat them, how
come* you to be taken?
Friday. They more many than my nation in the place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me; my
nation overheat them in the yonder place, where me no was;
there my nation take one, two, great thousand.
Master. But why did not your side recover you from
the hands of your enemies, then?
Friday. They run, one, two, three, and me, and make
go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do
with the men they take? Do they carry them away and
eat them, as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else
place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I been here; (points to the N. W. side
of the island, which it seems was their side).
By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly
been among the savages who used to come on shore on the
farther part of the island, on the same man-eating occa-
sions that he was now brought for; and some time after,
when I took the courage to carry him to that side, being
the same I formerly mentioned, he presently knew the place,
and told me he was there once when they eat up twenty
men, two women, and one child; he could not tell twenty
in English, but he numbered them by laying so many stones
on a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this passage, because it introduces what fol-
lows; that after I had had this discourse with him, I asked
him how far it was from our island to the shore, and
whether the canoes were not often lost; he told me there
was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that after a little
way out to the sea, there was a current and wind, always one
way in the morning, the other in the afternoon.
This I understood to be no more than the sets of the
tide, as going out or coming in; but I afterwards under-
stood it was occasioned by the great draft and reflux of the
mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or the gulf of which
river, as I found* afterwards, our island lay1, and this
land which I perceived to the W. and N. W. was the
great island Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of
the river: I asked Friday a thousand questions about the
country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what nation
were near; he told me all he knew with the greatest open-
ness imaginable; I asked him the names of the several nations
of his sort of people, but could get no other name than
Caribs; from whence I easily understood that these were the
Caribbees, which our maps place on the part of America
i our island lay: Crusoe's island is of course mythical.
which reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to
Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha: he told me that up a
great way beyond the moon, that was, beyond the setting of
the moon, which must be W. from their country, there
dwelt white bearded men, like me, and pointed to my great
whiskers, which I mentioned before; and that they had
killed much mans, that was his word; by all which I under-
stood he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America
had been spread over the whole countries, and was remem-
bered by all the nations from father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from this
island, and get among those white men; he told me, "Yes, yes,
I might go in two canoe," I could not understand what he
meant, or make him describe to me what he meant by "two
canoe", till at last, with great difficulty, I found he meant it
must be in a large great boat, as big as two canoes.
This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me
.very well, and from this time I entertained some hopes that,
one time or other, I might find an opportunity to make my
escape from this place, and that this poor savage might be a
means to help me do it.
During the long time that Friday hadt now been with
me, and that he began to speak to me, and understand me,
I was not wanting1 to lay a foundation of religious knowl-
edge in his mind; particularly I asked him one time who
made him. The poor creature did not understand me at
all, but thought I had asked who was his father; but I took
it by another handle, and asked him who made the sea, the
ground we walked on, and the hills and woods? He told
me it was one old Behamuckee, that lived beyond all: he
could describe nothing of this great person, but that he was
very old; much older he said, than the sea or the land, than
the moon or the stars: I asked him then, if this old person
had made all things, why did not all things worship him.
1 was not wanting: did not fail.
He looked very grave, and, with a perfect look of innocence,
said, "All things do say* 'O!' to him." I asked him if the
people who die in his country went away anywhere. He
said, "Yes, they all went to Benamuckee." Then I asked
him whether these they eat up went thither too. He said,
"Yes."
From these things I began to instruct him in the knowl-
edge of the true God: I told him that the great Maker of
all things lived up there, pointing up towards heaven; that
He governs the world by the same power and providence
by which He had made it: that He was omnipotent, could
do everything for us, give everything to us, take everything
from us; and thus by degrees I opened his eyes. He
listened with great attention, and received with pleasure the
notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the
manner of making our prayers to God, and His being able
to hear us, even into heaven; he told me one day, that if
our God could hear us up beyond the sun, He must needs
be a greater God than their Benamuckee, who lived but a
little way off, and yet could not hear till they went up to
the great mountains where he dwelt, to speak to him; I
asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him. He
said, "No; they never went that were young men;
none went thither but the old men," who he called their
Oowokakee, that is, as I made him explain it to me, their
religious, or clergy; and that they went to say "O!" (so
he called saying prayers), and then came back and told
them what Benamuckee said: by this I observed, that there
is priestcraft even amongst the most blinded, ignorant pagans
in the world; and the policy of making a secret religion, in
order to preserve the veneration of the people to the clergy,
is not only to be found in the Roman, but perhaps among
all religions in the world, even among the most brutish and
barbarous savages.
I endeavored to clear up this fraud to my man Friday,
and told him that the pretence of their old men going up the
mountains to say "O!" to their god Benamuckee was a cheat,
and their bringing word from thence what he said was much
more so; that if they met with any answer, or spake with
any one there, it must be with an evil spirit: and then I
entered into a long discourse with him about the devil, the
original of him1, his rebellion against God, his enmity to
man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts
of the world to be worshipped instead of God, and as God,
and the many stratagems he made use of to delude mankind
to his * ruin; how he had a secret access to our passions and
to our affections, to adapt his snares so to our inclinations, as
to cause us even to be our own tempters, and to run upon
our destruction by our own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions* in
his mind about the devil as it was about the being of a God.
Nature assisted all my arguments to evidence to him even
the necessity of a great First Cause and overruling, govern-
ing Power, a secret directing Providence, and of the equity
and justice of paying homage to Him that made us, and the
like; but there appeared nothing of all this in the notion
of an evil spirit, of his original2', his being, his nature, and,
above all, of his inclination to do evil, and to draw us in
to do so too; and the poor creature puzzled me once in
such a manner, by a question merely natural3 and innocent,
that I scarce knew what to say to him. I had been talking a
great deal to him of the power of God, His omnipotence,
His dreadful nature* to sin4, His being a consuming fire to
the workers of iniquity; how, as he had made us all, He
1 the original of him: his earliest state, what he was before he became a devil,—
i.e., one of the angels. Cf. N.E.D., under "original, sb." : "4. Beginning, com-
mencement, earliest stage (without reference to source or derivation).... [e.g.]
1753... .'The History of the University of Cambridge from its Original to the
Year 1753.'"
2 his original: i.e., origin (?).
8 merely natural: wholly natural.
* His dreadful nature to sin: the dreadfulness of Him in His dealings with the
sinner.
could destroy us and all the world in a moment; and he
listened with great seriousness to me all the while.
After this, I had been telling him how the devil was
God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used all his malice
and skill to defeat the good designs of Providence, and to
ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world, and the like.
"Well," says Friday, "but you say God is so-Strong, so
great; is He not much strong, much might as the devil?"
"Yes, yes," says I, "Friday, God is stronger than the devil,
God is above the devil, and therefore we pray to God to
tread him down under our feet, and enable us to resist his
temptations and quench his fiery darts." "But," says he
again, "if God much strong, much might as the devil, why
God no kill the devil, so make him no more do wicked?"
I was strangely surprised at his question; and after all,
though I was now an old man1, yet I was but a young
doctor2, and ill enough qualified for a casuist, or a solver of
difficulties: and at first I could not tell what to say, so I
pretended not to hear him, and asked him what he said.
But he was too earnest for an answer to forget his question,
so that he repeated it in the very same broken words as
above. By this time I had recovered myself a little, and I
said, "God will at last punish him severely; he is reserved
for the judgment, and is to be cast into the bottomless pit, to
dwell with everlasting fire." This did not satisfy Friday,
but he returns upon me, repeating my words, "'Reserve at
last!' me no understand; but why not kill the devil now, not
kill great ago?" "You may as well ask me," said I, "why
God does not kill you and I, when we do wicked things
here that offend Him. We are preserved to repent and be
pardoned." He muses awhile at this; "Well, well," says
he, mighty affectionately, "that well; so you, I, devil, all
wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all." Here I was
1 an old man: Crusoe was now fifty-two or fifty-three years old.
* a young doctor: an inexperienced teacher; cf. Latin doctor, teacher, from doccre,
to teach.
run down again by him to the last degree, and it was a
testimony to me, how the mere notions of nature, though
they will guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a'
God, and of a worship or homage due to the supreme being
of God, as the consequence of our nature, yet nothing but
Divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ,
and of a redemption purchased for us, of a Mediator of the
new covenant, and of an Intercessor at the footstool of God's
throne; I say, nothing but a revelation from heaven can
form these in the soul; and that, therefore, the Gospel of
our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the Word of
God, and the Spirit of God, promised for the guide and
sanctifier of His people, are the absolutely necessary instruc-
tors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of God, and
the means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present discourse between me
and my man, rising up hastily as upon some sudden occa-
sion of going out; then sending him for something a good
way off, I seriously prayed to God that he would enable
me to instruct savingly this poor savage, assisting by His
Spirit the heart of the poor ignorant creature to receive the
light of the knowledge of God in Christ, reconciling him
to Himself, and would guide me to speak so to him from .
the Word of God, as his conscience might be convinced, his
eyes opened, and his soul saved. When he came again to
me, I entered into a long discourse with him upon the
subject of the redemption of man by the Saviour of the
world, and of the doctrine of the Gospel preached from
heaven, viz., of repentance towards God, and faith in our
blessed Lord Jesus. I then explained to him, as well as I
could, why our blessed Redeemer took not on Him the nature
of angels, but the seed of Abraham, and how for that reason
the fallen angels had no share in the redemption; that He came
only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all
the methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and
must acknowledge what I believe all that act upon the
same principle will find, that in laying things open to him, I
really informed and instructed myself in many things that
either I did not know, or had not fully considered before,
but which occurred naturally to my mind upon my search-
ing into them for the information of this poor savage; and
I had more affection in my inquiry after things upon this
occasion than ever I felt before; so that whether this poor
wild wretch was the better for me, or no, I had great reason
to be thankful that ever he came to me: my grief set lighter
upon me, my habitation grew comfortable to me beyond
measure; and when I reflected that in this solitary life
which I had been confined to, I had not only been moved
myself to look up to heaven, and to seek to the Hand that
had brought me there, but was now to be made an instru-
ment under Providence to save the life, and, for aught I
knew, the soul of a poor savage, and bring him to the true
knowledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he
might know Christ Jesus, to know Whom is life eternal; I
say, when I reflected upon all these things, a secret joy run
through every part of my soul, and I frequently rejoiced
that ever I was brought to this place, which I had so often
thought the most dreadful of all afflictions that could possibly
have befallen me.
In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of
my time, and the conversation which employed the hours
between Friday and I was such as made the three years
which we lived there together1 perfectly and completely
1 the three years which we lived there together: The clear implication of this remark,
as of a similar one on p. 286, is that Crusoe and Friday lived together three years
before anyone else came to the island.. But this is impossible, for, according to
other statements, Fridaycame to the island in the fall, at the beginning of the 26th
year of Crusoe's stay, and Friday's father and the Spaniard came just a year later;
cf. pp.258,286. It isindeed, by Crusoe'sstatement, only a little over two years (or
three, if we accept Crusoe's statement that he lived on the island 28 years), from the
time Friday appeared to the escape from the island; and of these two (or three)
years one was shared by Friday's father and the Spaniard. If there were three
years, one year is missing from the narrative.
happy, if any such thing as complete happiness can be formed
in a sublunary state. The savage was now a good Chris-
tian, a much better than I; though I have reason to hope,
and bless God for it, that we were equally penitent, and
comforted, restored penitents; we had here the Word of
God to read, and no farther off from His Spirit to instruct
than if we had been in England.
I always applied myself, to reading the Scripture, to let
him know, as well as I could, the meaning of what I read;
and he again, by his 9erious inquiries and questionings* made
me, as I said before, a much better scholar in the Scripture
knowledge than I should ever have been by my own private
mere reading. Another thing I cannot refrain from observ-
ing here also, from experience in this retired part of my life,
viz., how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is that the
knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation by Christ
Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the Word of God, so easy
to be received and understood, that, as the bare reading the
Scripture made me capable of understanding enough of my
duty to carry me directly on to the great work of sincere
repentance for my sins, and laying hold of a Saviour for life
and salvation, to a stated reformation in practice, and obedi-
ence to all God's commands, and this without any teacher
or instructor, I mean human, so the same plain instruction
sufficiently served to the enlightening this savage creature,
and bringing him to be such a Christian as I have known
few equal to him in my life.
As to all the disputes, wranglings, strife, and conten-
tion which has happened in the world about religion, whether
niceties in doctrines or schemes of church government, they
were all perfectly useless to us, as for aught I can yet see,
they have been to all the rest of the world: we had the "sure
guide" to heaven, viz., the Word of God; and we had,
blessed be God, comfortable views of the Spirit of God
teaching and instructing us by His Word, "leading us into
all truth1," and making us both willing and obedient to the
instruction of His Word; and I cannot see the least use
that the greatest knowledge of the disputed points in religion,
which have made such confusions in the world, would have
been to us, if we could have obtained it; but I must go on
with the historical part of things, and take every part in
its order.
After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted,
and that he could understand almost all I said to him, and
speak fluently, though in broken English, to me, I acquainted
him with my own story, or at least so much of it as related
to my coming into the place; how I had lived there, and
how long. I let him into the mystery, for such it was to
him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how to shoot;
I gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully delighted
with, and I made him a belt, with a frog hanging to it,
such as in England we wear hangers in; and in the frog,
instead of a hanger2, I gave him a hatchet, which was not
only as good a weapon in some cases, but much more useful
upon other occasions.
I described to him the country of Europe, and particu-
larly England, which I came from; how we lived, how we
worshipped God, how we behaved to one another, and how
we traded in ships to all parts of the world: I gave him
an account of the wreck which I had been on board of,
and shewed him, as near as I could, the place where she lay;
but she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone.
I shewed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when
we escaped, and which I could not stir with my whole
strength then, but was now fallen almost all to pieces: upon
seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a great while, and said
nothing; I asked him what it was he studied upon. At last,
says he, "Me see such boat like come to place at my nation."
i into all truth: Cf. John xvi. 13.
2 hanger: a short curved sword.
I did not understand him a good while; but at last,
when I had examined farther into it, I understood by him
that a boat, such as that had been, came on shore upon the
country where he lived ; that it, as he explained it, was driven
thither by stress of weather: I presently imagined that some
European ship must have been cast away upon their coast,
and the boat might get loose and drive ashore; but was so
dull that I never once thought of men making escape from
a wreck thither, much less whence they might come; so I
only inquired after a description of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought
me better to understand him when he added with some
warmth, "We save the white mans from drown." Then
I presently asked him if there was any white mans, as he
called them, in the boat. "Yes," he said, "the boat full"
of white mans." I asked him how many; he told upon his
fingers seventeen: I asked him then what become of them.
He told me, "They live, they dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently
imagined that these might be the men belonging to the
ship that was cast away in sight of my island, as I now
call it; and who, after the ship was struck on the rock and
they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in their
boat, and were landed upon that wild shore among the
savages.
Upon this I inquired of him more critically what was
become of them. He assured me they lived still there; that
they had been there about four years; that the savages let
them alone, and gave them victuals to live. I asked him
how it came to pass they did not kill them and eat them.
He said, "No, they make brother with them;" that is, as
I understood him, a truce: and then he added, "They no eat
mans but when make the war fight;" that is to say, they
never eat any men but such as come to fight with them,
and are taken in battle.
It was after this some considerable time, that, being on
the top of the hill at the east side of the island, from whence,
as I have said, I had in a clear day discovered the main or
continent of America, Friday, the weather being very serene,
looks very earnestly towards the mainland, and in a kind
of surprise, falls a-jumping and dancing, and calls out to
me, for I was at some distance from him: I asked him
what was the matter. "O joy!" says he; "O glad! there
see my country, there my nation!"
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared
in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance dis-
covered a strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in
his own country again; and this observation of mine put
a great many thoughts into me, which made me at first
not so easy about my new man Friday as I was before;
and I made no doubt but that, if Friday could get back to
his own nation again, he would not only forget all his
religion, but all his obligation to me, and would be forward
enough to give his countrymen an account of me, and come
back, perhaps with a hundred or two of them, and make
a feast upon me, at which he might be as merry as he used
to be with those of his enemies, when they were taken in war.
But I wrongd the poor honest creature very much, for
which I was very sorry afterwards. However, as my jealousy
increased, and held me some weeks, I was a little more
circumspect, and not so familiar and kind to him as before;
in which I was certainly in the wrong too, the honest
grateful creature having no thought about it but what con-
sisted with the best principles, both as a religious Christian
and as a grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my full
satisfaction.
While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I
was every day pumping him, to see if he would discover
any of the new thoughts which I suspected were in him;
but I found everything he said was so honest and so inno-
cent, that I could find nothing to nourish my suspicion; and
in spite of all my uneasiness he made me at last entirely his
own again, nor did he in the least perceive that I was uneasy,
and therefore I could not suspect him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the continent,
I called to him, and said, "Friday, do not you wish yourself
in your own country, your own nation?" "Yes," he said,
"he be much O glad to be at his* own nation." "What
would you do there?" said I; "would you turn wild again,
.eat men's flesh again, and be a savage as you were before?"
He lookt full of concern, and shaking his head, said, "No,
no, Friday tell them to live good, tell them to pray God,
tell them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk, no eat man
again." "Why, then," said I to him, "they will kill you."
He looked grave at that, and then said, "No, they no kill
me, they willing love learn:" he meant by this, they would
be*willing to learn. He added, they learned much of the
bearded mans that come in the boat. Then I asked him
if he would go back to them. He smiled at that, and told
me he could not swim so far. I told him I would make a
canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I would go
with him. "I go!" says I; "why, they will eat me if I
come there." "No, no," says he, "me make they no eat
you; me make they much love you:" he meant, he would
tell them how I had killed his enemies, and saved his life,
and so he would make them love me; then he told me, as
well as he could, how kind they were to seventeen white
men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came on shore
there in distress.
From this time I confess I had a mind to venture over,
and see if I could possibly join with these bearded men,
who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portuguese; not
doubting but, if I could, we might find some method to
escape from thence, being upon the continent, and a good
company together, better than I could from an island 40
miles off the shore, and alone without help. So after some
days I took Friday to work again, by way of discourse, and
told him I would give him a boat to go back to his own
nation; and accordingly I carried him to my frigate, which
lay on the other side of the island, and having cleared it
of water, for I always kept it sunk in the water, I brought it
out, shewed it him, and we both went into it.
I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing
it, would make it go almost as swift and fast again as I
could; so when he was in, I said to him, "Well, now,
Friday, shall we go to your nation?" He looked very dull
at my saying so, which it seems was because he thought the
boat too small to go so far. I told him then I had a bigger;
so the next day I went to the place where the first boat lay
which I had made, but which I could not get into waterT:
he said that was big enough; but then, as I had taken no
care of it, and it had lain two or three and twenty years
there, the sun had split and dried it, that it was in a manner
rotten. Friday told me such a boat would do very well,
and would carry "much enough victual, drink, bread"; that
was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my
design of going over with him to the continent, that I told
him we would go and make one as big as that, and he
should go home in it. He answered not one word, but
looked very grave and sad: I asked him what was the
matter with him. He asked me again thus, "Why you angry
mad with Friday? what me done?" I asked him what he
meant; I told him I was not angry with him at all. "No
angry! no angry!" says he, repeating the words several
times; "why send Friday home away to my nation?"
"Why," says I, "Friday, did you not say you wished you
were there?" "Yes, yes," says he, "wish be both there; no
wish Friday there, no master there." In a word, he would
not think of going there without me. "I go there, Friday!"
says I, "what shall I do there?" He turned very quick
upon me at this. "You do great deal much good," says
he; "you teach wild mans be good sober tame mans; you
tell them know God, pray God, and live new life." "Alas!
Friday," says I, "thou knowest not what thou sayest; I
am but an ignorant man myself." "Yes, yes," says he,
"you teachee me good, you teachee them good." "No, no,
Friday," says I, "you shall go without me; leave me here
to live by myself, as I did before." He looked con-
fused again at that word, and running to one of the hatchets
which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, comes and
gives it me. "What must I do with this?" says I to him.
"You take kill Friday," says he. "What must I kill you
for?" said I again. He returns very quick, "What you send
Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday away."
This he spoke so earnestly that I saw tears stand in his eyes:
in a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost affection in
him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that I told him
then, and often after, that I would never send him away
from me, if he was willing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a settled
affection to me, and that nothing should part him from me,
so I found all the foundation of his desire to go to his own
country was laid in his ardent affection to the people, and
his hopes of my doing them good; a thing which, as I had
no notion of myself, so I had not the least thought, or
intention, or desire of undertaking it. But still I found a
strong inclination to my attempting an escape as above,
founded on the supposition gathered from the discourse, viz.,
that there were seventeen bearded men there; and there-
fore, without any more delay, I went to work with Friday
to find out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large
periagua or canoe to undertake the voyage. There were
trees enough in the island to have built a little fleet, not
of periaguas and canoes, but even of good large vessels. But
the main thing I looked at was, to get one so near the
water that we might launch it when it was made, to avoid
the mistake I committed at first.
At last Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found he
knew much better than I what kind of wood was fittest
for it, nor can I tell to this day what wood to call the
tree we cut down, except that it was very like the tree
we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua wood,
for it was much of the same color and smell. Friday was
for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make
it for a boat. But I shewed him how rather to cut it out
with tools, which, after I had shewed him how to use, he
did very handily; and in about a month's hard labor, we
finished it, and made it very handsome, especially when with
our axes, which I shewed him how to handle, we cut and
hewed the outside into the true shape of a boat; after this,
however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her along,
as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers into the water.
But when she was in, she would have carried twenty men
with great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was so big,
it amazed me to see with what dexterity and how swift my
man Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her
along; so I asked him if he would, and if we might venture
over in her. "Yes," he said, "he venture over in her very
well, though great blow wind." However, I had a farther
design that he knew nothing of, and that was to make a mast
and sail, and to fit her with an anchor and cable: as to a
mast, that was easy enough to get; so I pitched upon a
straight young cedar-tree, which I found near the place,
and which there was great plenty of in the island, and I
set Friday to work to cut it down, and gave him directions
how to shape and order it. But as to the sail, that was
my particular care; I knew I had old sails, or rather pieces
of old sails, enough; but as I had had them now six and
twenty years by me, and had not been very careful to
preserve them, not imagining that I should ever have this
kind of use for them, I did not doubt but they were all rot-
ten, and indeed most of them were so; however, I found
two pieces which appeared pretty good, and with these I
went to work, and with a great deal of pains, and awkward
tedious stitching (you may be sure) for want of needles,
I at length made a three-cornered ugly thing, like what we
call in England a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a
boom at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such
as usually our ships' long-boats sail with, and such as I
best knew how to manage; because it was such a one as
I had to the boat in which I made my escape from Barbary,
as related in the first part of my story.
I was near two months performing this last work, viz.,
rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I finished them
very complete, making a small stay, and a sail or foresail
to it, to assist if we should turn to windward; and which
was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to
steer with; and though I was but a bungling shipwright,
yet as I knew the usefulness, and even necessity, of sueh a
thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do it, that at
last I brought it to pass; though, considering the many dull
contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me
almost as much labor as making the boat.
After all this was done too, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my boat; for
though he knew very well how to paddle a canoe, he knew
nothing what belonged to a sail and a rudder; and was
the most amazed when he saw me work the boat to and
again1 in the sea by the" rudder, and how the sail jibbed, and
filled this way or that way, as the course we sailed changed;
I say, when he saw this, he stood like one astonished and
1 to and again: back and forth; Crusoe was tacking.
amazed: however, with a little use I made all these things
familiar to him, and he became an expert sailor, except
that as to the compass I could make him understand very
little of that. On the other hand, as there was very little
cloudy weather, and seldom or never any fogs in those
parts, there was the less occasion for a compass, seeing the
stars were always to be seen by night, and the shore by day,
except in the rainy seasons, and then nobody cared to stir
abroad either by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven and twentieth year of
my captivity in this place; though the three last years1 that
I had this creature with me ought rather to be left out of the
account, my habitation being quite of another kind than in
all the rest of the time. I kept the anniversary of my land-
ing here with the same thankfulness to God for His mercies
as at first; and if I had such cause of acknowledgment at
first, I had much more so now, having such additional testi-
monies of the care of Providence over me, and the great
hopes I had of being effectually and speedily delivered; for
I had an invincible impression upon my thoughts that my
deliverance was at hand, and that I should not be another
yeaf in this place: however, I went on with my husbandry,
digging, planting, fencing, as usual; I gathered and cured
my grapes, and did every necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was in the mean time upon me, when
I kept more within doors than at other times; so I had
stowed our new vessel as secure as we could, bringing her
up into the creek, where, as I said, in the beginning I
landed my rafts from the ship, and haling her up to the
shore at high water mark, I made my man Friday dig a little
dock, just big enough to hold her, and just deep enough to
give her water enough to fleet t in; and then, when the tide
was out, we made a strong dam cross the end of it, to keep
1 three last years: Friday came to him at the beginning of the twenty-sixth year.
—cf. pp. 249, 255. This statement implies that Friday came in the fall, at the
-ginning of the 24th year.
the water out; and so she lay dry, as to the tide, from the
sea; and to keep the rain off, we laid a great many boughs
of trees, so thick that she was as well thatched as a house;
and thus we waited for the month of November and Decem-
ber, in which I designed to make my adventure1.
When the settled season began to come in, as the thought
of my design returned with the fair weather, I was prepar-
ing daily for the voyage; and the first thing -I did was to
lay by a certain quantity of provisions, being the stores for
our voyage; and intended, in a week or a fortnight's time,
to open the dock and launch out our boat. I was busy one
morning upon something of this kind, when I called to
Friday, and bid him go to the seashore and see if he could
find a turtle or tortoise, a thing which we generally got once
a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as the flesh: Friday
had not been long gone when he came running back, and
flew over my outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not the
ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and before I had
time to speak to him, he cries out to me, "O master! O
master! O sorrow! O bad!" "What's the matter, Friday?"
says I. "O yonder, there," says he, "one, two, three canoe!
one, two, three!" By his way of speaking, I concluded there
were six; but on inquiry I found it was but three. "Well,
Friday," says I, "do not be frighted;" so I heartened him
up as well as I could: however, I saw the poor fellow was
most terribly scared; for nothing ran in his head but that
they were come to look for him, and would cut him in
pieces and eat him; and the poor fellow trembled so that I
scarce knew what to do with him: I comforted him as well
as I could, and told him I was in as much danger as he,
and that they would eat me as well as him; "but," says I,
"Friday, we must resolve to fight them; can you fight, Fri-
day?" "Me shoot," says he; "but there come many great
number." "No matter for that," said I, again; "our guns
1 adventure: trial, venture.
will fright them that we do not kill;" so I asked him whether,
if I resolved to defend him, he would defend me, and stand
by me, and do just as I bid him. He said, "Me die, when
you bid die, master." So I went and fetched a good dram
of rum and gave him; for I had been so good a husband of
my rum, that I had a great deal left: when he had drank
it, I made him take the two fowling-pieces, which we
always carried, and load them with large swan-shot, as big
as small pistol bullets; then I took four muskets, and loaded
them with - two slugs and five small bullets each; and my
two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each; I hung
my great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday
his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspec-
tive glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to see what I
could discover; and I found quickly by my glass that there
were one and twenty savages, three prisoners, and three
canoes; and that their whole business seemed to be the
triumphant banquet upon these three human bodies, a bar-
barous feast indeed, but nothing more than, as I had
observed, was usual with them.
I observed also that they were landed, not where they
had done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to my
creek, where the shore was low, and where a thick wood
came close almost down to the sea: this, with the abhor-
rence of the inhuman errand these wretches came about,
filled me with such indignation that I came down again to
Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down to them,
and kill them all; and asked him if he would stand by me.
He was now gotten over his fright, and his spirits being a
little raised with the dram I had given him, he was very
cheerful, and told me, as before, he would die when I bid die.
In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms
which I had charged, as before, between us; I gave Friday
one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns upon his
shoulder; and I took one pistol and the other three myself;
and in this posture we marched out: I took a small bottle
of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a large bag with
more powder and bullet; and as to orders, I charged him
to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do any-
thing, till I bid him, and in the mean time not to speak a
word: in this posture1 I fetched a compass2 to my right hand
of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into
the wood, so that I might come within shoot of them before
I should be discovered, which I had seen by my glass it was
easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former thoughts
returning, I began to abate my resolution; I do not mean
that I entertained any fear of their number; for as they
were naked, unarmed wretches, 't is certain I was superior
to them, nay, though I had been alone; but it occurred to
my thoughts, what call, what occasion, much less what
necessity, I was in to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack
people who had neither done or intended me any wrong;
who, as to me, were innocent, and whose barbarous customs
were their own disaster, being in them a token, indeed, of
God's having left them, with the other nations of that part of
the world, to such stupidity, and to such inhuman courses, but
did not call me to take upon me to be a judge of their actions,
much less an executioner of His justice; that whenever He
thought fit, He would take the cause into His own hands, and
by national vengeance punish them as a people for national
crimes; but that, in the mean time, it was none of my busi-
ness; that it was true Friday might justify it, because he was
a declared enemy, and in a state of war with those very
particular people, and it was lawful for him to attack them;
but I could not say the same with /espect to me: these things
were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way as I
went, that I resolved I would only go and place myself near
1 posture: fashion, condition; cf. p. 221.
2 fetched a compass: made a circuit.
them, that I might observe their barbarous feast, and that I
would act then as God should direct; but that unless some-
thing offered that was more a call to me than yet I knew of,
I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood, and with all
possible wariness and silence, Friday following close at my
heels, I marched till I came to the skirt of the wood, on the
side which was next to them, only that one corner of the
wood lay between me and them; here I called softly to
Friday, and shewing him a great tree which was just at
the corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring
me word if he could see there plainly what they were doing;
he did so, and came immediately back to me, and told me
they might be plainly viewed there; that they were all about
their fire eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and that
another lay bound upon the sand a little from them, which
he said they would kill next; and which fired all the very
soul within me, he told me it was not one of their nation,
but one of the bearded men who he had told me of, that
came to their country in the boat: I was filled with horror
at the very naming the white bearded* man; and going to the
tree, I saw plainly by my glass a white man who lay upon
the beach of the sea, with his hands and his feet tied with
flags, or things like rushes, and that he was an European,
and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it,
about fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I was,
which by going a little way about, I saw I might come at
undiscovered, and that then I should be within half shot of
them; so I withheld my passion, though I was indeed enraged
to the highest degree, and going back about twenty paces, I
got behind some bushes, which held all the way till I came to
the other tree; and then I came to a little rising ground,
which gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about
eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled
together, and had just sent the other two to butcher the
poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps limb by limb, to
their fire, and they were stooped down to untie the bands
at his feet; I turned to Friday: "Now, Friday," said I, "do
as I bid thee." Friday said he would. "Then, Friday," says
I, "do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing." So I set
down one of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon the
ground, and Friday did the like by his; and with the other
musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him do the
like; then asking him if he was ready, he said, "Yes."
"Then fire at them," said I; and the same moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the
side that he shot he killed two of them, and wounded three
more; and on my side I killed one and wounded two: they
were, you may be sure, in a dreadful consternation; and all
of them who were not hurt jumped up upon their feet, but
did not immediately know which way to run, or which way
to look, for they knew not from whence their destruction
came: Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid
him, he might observe what I did; so, as soon as the first shot
was made, I threw down the piece, and took up the fowling-
pieee, and Friday did the like; he see me cock and present;
he did the same again. "Are you ready, Friday?" said I.
"Yes," says he. "Let fly, then," says I, "in the name of
God!" and with that I fired again among the amazed
wretches, and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now
loaden with what I called swan-shot, or small pistol bullets,
we found only two drop; but so many were wounded, that
they run about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all
bloody, and miserably wounded most of them; whereof three
more fell quickly after, though not quite dead.
"Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged
pieces, and taking up the musket which was yet loaden;
"follow me," says I, which he did with a great deal of
courage; upon which I rushed out of the wood, and shewed
myself, and Friday close at my foot; as soon as I perceived
they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday
do so too; and running as fast as I could, which, by the
way, was not very fast, being loaden with arms as I was,
I made directly towards the poor victim, who was, as I said,
lying upon the beach or shore, between the place where they
sat and the sea; the two butchers, who were just going to
work with him, had left him at the surprise of our first fire,
and fled in a terrible fright to the seaside, and had jumped
into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the same way;
I turned to Friday, and bid him step forwards and fire at
them; he understood me immediately, and running about
forty yards, to be near them, he shot at them, and I thought
he had killed them all; for I see them all fall of a heap into
the boat, though I saw two of them up again quickly: how-
ever, he killed two of them, and wounded the third, so that
he lay down in the bottom of the boat as if he had been
dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my
knife and cut the flags that bound the poor victim, and
loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him,
in the Portuguese tongue, what he was. He answered, in
Latin, "Christianus"1; but was so weak and faint that he
could scarce stand or speak; I took my bottle out of my
pocket, and gave it him, making signs that he should drink,
which he did; and I gave him a piece of bread, which he
eat; then I asked him what countryman he was, and he
said, "Espagniole"; and being a little recovered, let me
know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how much
he was in my debt for his deliverance. "Seignior," said I,
with as much Spanish as I could make up, "we will talk
afterwards, but we must fight now; if you have any strength
1 Christianus: i.e., a Christian.
left, take this pistol and sword, and lay about you." He
took them very thankfully, and no sooner had he the arms
in his hands, but as if they had put new vigof into him, he
flew upon his murtherers like a fury, and had cut two of
them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole
was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures were so much
frighted with the noise of our pieces that they fell down for
mere amazement and fear, and had no more power to attempt
their own escape, than their flesh had to resist our shot; and
that was the case of those five that Friday shot at in the
boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they received,
so the other two fell with the fright.
I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being
willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given the
Spaniard my pistol and sword; so I called to Friday, and
bade him run up to the tree from wherice we first fired, and
fetch the arms which lay there that had been discharged,
which he did with great swiftness; and then giving him my
musket, I sat down myself to load all the rest again, and
bade them come to me when they wanted: while I was load-
ing these pieces, there happened a fierce engagement between
the Spaniard and one of the savages, who made at him with
one of their great wooden swords, the same weapon that
was to have killed him before, if I had not prevented it: the
Spaniard, who was as bold and as brave as could be imag-
ined, though weak, had fought this Indian a good while, and
had cut him two great wounds on his head; but the savage
being a stout lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown
him down, being faint, and was wringing my sword out of his
hand, when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting
the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage
through the body, and killed him upon the spot, before I,
who was running to help him, could come near him.
Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying
wretches with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and
with that he despatched those three who, as I said before,
were wounded at first and fallen, and all the rest he could
come up with; and the Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I
gave him one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued
two of the savages, and wounded them both; but as he was
not able to run, they both got from him into the wood,
where Friday pursued them, and killed one of them; but the
other was too nimble for him, and though he was wounded,
yet had plunged himself into the sea, and swam with all his
might off to those two who were left in the canoe, which
three in the canoe, with one wounded, who we know not
whether he died or no, were all that escaped our hands of
one and twenty: the account of the rest1 is as follows:—
3 killed at our first shot from the tree.
2 killed at the next shot.
2 killed by Friday in the boat.
2 killed by ditto, of those at first wounded.
1 killed by ditto, in the wood.
3 killed by the Spaniard.
4 killed, being found dropped here and there of their
wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase of them.
4 escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded if not
dead.
21 in all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out
of gun-shot; and though Friday made two or three shot at
them, I did not find that he hit any of them: Friday would
fain have had me took one of their canoes and pursued them;
and, indeed, I was very anxious about their escape, lest, car-
rying the news home to their people, they should come back
perhaps with two or three hundred of their canoes, and
devour us by mere multitude; so I consented to pursue them
1 the rest: Really "the whole."
by sea, and running to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and
bade Friday follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I was
surprised to find another poor creature lie there alive, bound
hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and
almost dead with fear, not knowing what the matter was;
for he had not been able to look up over the side of the
boat, he was tied so hard, neck and heels, and had been tied
so long, that he had really but little life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they
had bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he
could not stand or speak, but groaned most piteously, believing
it seems, still that he was only unbound in order to be killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance, and pulling out my bottle,
made him give the poor wretch a dram, which, with the
news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat up in
the boat; but when Friday came to hear him speak, and look
in his face, it would have moved any one to tears to have
seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him,
cried, laughed, hollowed, jumped about, danced, sung, then
cried again, wrung his hands, beat his own face .and head,
and then sung and jumped about again like a distracted crea-
ture: it was a good while before I could make him speak to
me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came a
little to himself, he told me that it was his father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see
what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor
savage at the sight of his father, and of his being delivered
from death; nor, indeed, can I describe half the extrava-
gancies of his affection after this; for he went into the boat
and out of the boat a great many times: when he went in to
him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and hold his
father's head close to his bosom half an hour together, to
nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles, which were
numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed and rubbed
them with his hands; and I, perceiving what the case was,
gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with, which
did them a great deal of good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with
the other savages, who were now gotten almost out of sight;
and it was happy for us that we did not, for it blew so hard
within two hours after, and before they could be gotten a
quarter of their way, and continued blowing so hard all night,
and that from the northwest1, which was against them, that I
could not suppose their boat could live, or that they ever
reached to their own coast.
But to return to Friday; he was so busy about his father,
that I could not find in my heart to take him off for some
time: but after I thought he could leave him a little, I
called him to me, and he came jumping and laughing, and
pleased to the highest extreme; then I asked him if he had
given his father any bread. He shook his head, and said,
"None: ugly dog eat all up self." So I gave him a cake of
bread out of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave
him a dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but carried
to his father: I had in my pocket also two or three bunches
of my raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father.
^He had no sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw
him come out of the boat and run away, as if he had been
bewitched, he run at such a rate; for he was the swiftest
fellow of his foot that ever I saw; I say, he run at such
a rate that he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant;
and though I called, and hollowed, too, after him, it was
all one; away he went, and in a quarter of an hour I saw
him come back again, though not so fast as he went; and as
he came nearer, I found his pace was slacker because he had
something in his hand.
1from the northwest: Crusoe has seen land to the southwest and west, the
latter being the island of Trtnidad, and from Friday has heard of it to the north-
west. The savages had been feasting on the southwest point of the island and
were now returning to their islands, which lay in a northwesterly direction from
iliat point.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite home
for an earthen jug or pot to bring his father some fresh
water, and that he had got two more cakes or loaves of
bread: the bread he gave me, but the water he carried to
his father: however, as I was very thirsty too, I took a little
sup of it. This water revived his father more than all the
rum or spirits I had given him, for he was just fainting with
thirst.
When his father had drank, I called to him to know
if there was any water left; he said, "Yes;" and I bade him
give to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as
his father; and I sent one of the cakes, that Friday brought,
to the Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak, and was
reposing himself upon a green place under the shade of a tree;
and whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled
with the rude bandage he had been tied with. When I saw
that upon Friday's coming to him with the water, he sat up
and drank, and took the bread and began to eat, I went to
him and gave him a handful of raisins; he looked up in my
face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that
could appear in any countenance; but was so weak, notwith-
standing he had so exerted himself in the fight, that he could
not stand up upon his feet; he tried to do it two or three
times, but was really not able, his ankles were so swelled and
so painful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday
to rub his ankles, and bathe them with rum, as he had done
his father's.
I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two min-
utes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turned his
head about, to see if his father was in the same place and
posture as he left him sitting; and at last he found he was
not to be seen; at which he started up, and without speaking
a word, flew with that swiftness to him, that one could scarce
perceive his feet to touch the ground as he went: but when
he came, he only found he had laid himself down to ease his
limbs; so Friday came back to me presently, and I then spoke
to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up if he could, and
lead him to the boat, and then he should carry him to our
dwelling, where I would take care of him: but Friday, a
lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon his
back, and carried him away to the boat, and set him down
softly upon the side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in
the inside of it, and then lifted him quite in, and set him
close to his father, and presently stepping out again, launched
the boat off, and paddled it along the shore faster than I
could walk, though the wind blew pretty hard too; so he
brought them both safe into our creek, and leaving them in
the boat, runs away to fetch the other canoe. As he passed
me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went; he told
me, "Go fetch more boat;" so away he went like the wind,
for sure never man or horse run like him; and he had the
other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land;
so he wafted me over, and then went to help our new guests
out of the boat, which he did; but they were neither of them
able to walk; so that poor Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and
calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while
he came to me, I soon made a kind of handbarrow to lay
them on, and Friday aud I carried them up both together
upon it between us: but when we got them to the outside of
our wall or fortification, we were at a worse loss than before;
for it was impossible to get them over, and I was resolved
not to break it down: so I set to work again, and Friday and
I, in about 2 hours' time, made a very handsome tent, cov-
ered with old sails, and above that with boughs of trees,
being in the space without our outward fence, and between
that and the grove of young wood which I had planted: and
here we made them two beds of such things as I had, viz.,
of good rice straw, with blankets laid upon it to lie on, and
another to cover them, on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself
very rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection, which I
frequently made, how like a king I looked. First of all,
the whole country was my own mere property, so that I
had an undoubted right of dominion. 2dly, my people were
perfectly subjected: I was absolute lord and lawgiver; they
all owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay down
their lives, if there had been occasion of it, for me. It was
remarkable, too, we had but three subjects, and they were
of three different religions. My man Friday was a
Protestant, his father was a Pagan and a cannibal, and the
Spaniard was a Papist: however, I allowed liberty of con-
science throughout my dominions: but this is by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners,
and given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I
began to think of making some provision for them; and
the first thing I did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling
goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my particular flock,
to be killed; when I cut off the hinder quarter, and chopping
it into small pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and
stewing, and made them a very good dish, I assure you,
of flesh and broth, having put some barley and rice also
into the broth; and as I cooked it without doors, for I
made no fire within my inner wall, so I carried it all into
the new tent; and having set a table there for them, I
sat down and eat my own dinner also with them, and, as
well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them, Friday
being my interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed,
to the Spaniard too, for the Spaniard spoke the language
of the savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday
to take one of the canoes and go and fetch our muskets and
other firearms, which for want of time we had left upon
the. place of battle, and the next day I ordered him to go
and bury the dead bodies of the savages, which lay open
to the sun, and would presently be offensive; and I also
ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their barbarous
feast, which I knew were pretty much1, and which I could
not think of doing myself; nay, I could not bear to see
them, if I went that way: all which he punctually per-
formed, and defaced2 the very appearance of the savages
being there; so that when I went again, I could scarce
know where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood
pointing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects; and first I set Friday to inquire of
his father what he thought of the escape of the savages in
that canoe, and whether we might expect a return of them
with a power too great for us to resist: his first opinion
was that the savages in the boat never could live out the
storm which blew that night they went off, but must of
necessity be drowned, or driven south to those other shores3,
where they were as sure to be devoured, as they were to be
drowned if they were cast away; but as to what they would
do if they came safe on shore, he said he knew not; but
it was his opinion that they were so dreadfully frighted
with the manner of their being attacked, the noise and the
fire, that he believed they would tell their people they were
all killed by thunder and lightning, not by the hand of
man, and • that the two which appeared, viz., Friday and
me, were two heavenly spirits or furies, come down to
destroy them, and not men with weapons: this he said he
knew, because he heard them all cry out so in their language
to one another; for it was impossible to them to conceive
that a man could dart fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a
distance without lifting up the hand, as was done now:
and this old savage was in the right; for, as I understood
'knew were pretty much: i.e., pretty great, (in quantity).
2defaced: i.e., effaced.
8 those other shores: shores inhabited by other savages, unfriendly to them.
The reference is apparently to the shores of the mainland near the mouth of the
Orinoco.
since by other hands, the savages never attempted to go
over to the island afterwards; they were so terrified with
the accounts given by those four men (for it seems they
did escape the sea), that they believed whoever went to
that enchanted island would be destroyed with fire from
the gods.
This, however, I knew not, and therefore was under
continual apprehensions for a good while, and kept always
upon my guard, me and all my army; for as we were now
four of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred of them
fairly in the open field at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing,
the fear of their coming wore off, and I began to take my
former thoughts of a voyage to the main into considera-
tion, being likewise assured by Friday's father that I might
depend upon good usage from their nation, on his account,
if I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended when I had a
serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I understood
that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and Por-
tuguese1, who having been cast away and made their escape
to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the savages,
but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and, indeed,
for life: I asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and
found they were a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la
Plata to the Havana, being directed to leave their loading
there, which was chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back
what European goods they could meet with there; that
they had five Portuguese seamen on board, who they took
out of another wreck; that five of their own men were
drowned when first the ship2t was lost, and that these
escaped through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived,
1 and Portuguese: No Portuguese are mentioned afterwards in this part of the
story or in the Farther Adventures.
2 first the ship: i.e., at the time of the wreck on Crusoe's island. The 1st and
4th editions read the first ship, which must be taken to refer to the wreck from
which the five Portuguese were taken; the context clearly favors the reading of the
present text.
almost starved, on the cannibal coast, where they expected
to have been devoured every moment.
He told me they had some arms with them, but they
were perfectly useless, for that they had neither powder
or ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled all their
powder but a little, which they used at their first landing
to provide themselves some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them
there, and if they had formed no design of making any
escape. He said they had many consultations about it, but
that having neither vessel or tools to build one, or pro-
visions of any kind, their councils always ended in tears
and despair.
I asked him how he thought they would- receive a pro-
posal from me, which might tend towards an escape; and
whether, if they were all here, it might not be done. I
told him with freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and
ill usage of me, if I put my life in their hands; for that
gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor
did men always square their dealings by the obligations they
had received, so much as they did by the advantages they
expected.* I told him it would be very hard that I should
be the instrument of their deliverance, and that they should
afterwards make me their prisoner in New Spain1, where
an Englishman was certain to be made a sacrifice, what
necessity or what accident soever brought him thither: and
that I had rather be delivered up to the savages, and be
devoured alive, than fall into the merciless claws of the priests,
and be carried into the Inquisition. I added that, otherwise, I
was persuaded, if they were all here, we might with so many
hands build a bark large enough to carry us all away, either
to the Brazils southward, or to the islands or Spanish coast
northward: but that if in requital they should, when I had
put weapons into their hands, carry me by force among their
1 New Spain:: the Spanish possessions in Central America.
own people, I might be ill used for my kindness to them, and
make my case worse than it was before.
He answered with a great deal of candor and ingenuity1,
that their condition was so miserable, and they were so
sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor the thought
of using any man unkindly that should contribute to their
deliverance; and that, if I pleased, he would go to them
with the old man, and discourse with them about it, and
return again, and bring me their answer: that he would
make conditions with them upon their solemn oath, that
they should be absolutely under my leading, as their com-
mander and captain; and that they should swear upon the
Holy Sacraments and the Gospel to be true to me, and to go
to such Christian country as that I should agree to, and no
other; and to be directed wholly and absolutely by my
orders, till they were landed safely in such country as I
intended; and that he would bring a contract from them,
under their hands, for that purpose.
Then he told me he would first swear to me himself,
that he would never stir from me as long as he lived, till I
gave him orders; and that he would take my side to the
last drop of his blood, if there should happen the least
breach of faith among his countrymen.
He told me they were all of them very civil honest
men, and they were under the greatest distress imaginable,
having neither weapons or clothes, nor any food, but at the
mercy and discretion of the savages; out of all hopes of ever
returning to their own country; and that he was sure, if I
would undertake their relief, they would live and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve
them, if possible, and to send the old savage and this
Spaniard over to them to treat: but when we had gotten
all things in a readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started
an objection, which had so much prudence in it on one hand,
1 ingenuity: ingenuousness.
and so much sincerity on the other hand, that I could not
but be very well satisfied in it; and by his advice put off
the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year.
The case was thus.
He had been with us now about a month, during which
time I had let him see in what manner I had provided, with
the assistance of Providence, for my support; and he saw
evidently what stock of corn and rice I had laid up; which,
as it was more than sufficient for myself, so it was not
sufficient, at least without good husbandry, for my family,
now it was increased to number four; but much less would
it be sufficient, if his countrymen, who were, as he said,
fourteen still alive1, should come over. And least of all
should it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should
build one, for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of
America. So he told me he thought it would be more advis-
able to let him and the two other dig and cultivate some more
land, as much as I could spare seed to sow, and that we
should wait another harvest, that we might have a supply
of corn for his countrymen, when they should come; for
want might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not to
think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one diffi-
culty into another. "You know," says he, "the Children
of Israel2, though they rejoiced at first for their being
delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even against God Him-
self, that delivered them, when they came to want bread in
the wilderness."
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good,
that I could not but be very well pleased with his proposal,
as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity. So we fell to
digging, all four of us, as well as the wooden tools we were
furnished with permitted; and in about a month's time, by
1 fourteen still alive: Apparently a slip for "sixteen." We might assume that
there were fourteen Spaniards and two Portuguese, in keeping with the statement
made just before, but in the sequel of the story the number of Spaniards is at least
twice given as sixteen; cf. Farther Adventures, pp. 50, 93.
2 Children of Israel: Cf. Exodus xvi.
the end of which it was seed time, we had gotten as much
land cured and trimmed up as we sowed 22 bushels of
barley on, and 16 jars of rice, which was, in short, all the
seed we had to spare; nor indeed did we leave ourselves
barley sufficient for our own food for the six months that we
had to expect our crop, that is to say, reckoning from the
time we set our seed aside for sowing; for it is not to be
supposed it is six months in the ground in the country.
Having now society enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they had
come, unless their number had been very great, we went
freely all over the island, wherever we found occasion; and
as here we had our escape or deliverance upon our thoughts,
it was impossible, at least for me, to have the means of it
out of mine; to this purpose, I marked out several trees
which I thought fit for our work, and I set Friday and
his father to cutting them down; and then I caused the
Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thought on that affair,
to oversee and direct their work. I shewed them with
what indefatigable pains I had hewed a large tree into
single planks, and I caused them to do the like, till they
had made about a dozen large planks of good oak, near
2 foot broad, 35 foot long, and from 2 inches to 4 inches
thick; what prodigious labor it took up, any one may
imagine.
At the same time I contrived to increase my little flock
of tame goats as much as I could; and to this purpose I
made Friday and the Spaniard go out one day, and myself
with Friday the next day, for we took our turns, and by
this means we got above 20 young kids to breed up with
the rest; for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids,
and added them to our flock: but above all, the season for
curing the grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious
quantity to be hung up in the sun, that I believe, had we
been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are cured,
we could have filled 60 or 80 barrels; and these,
with our bread, was a great part of our food, and very
good living too, I assure you, for it is an exceeding
nourishing food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it
was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island,
but, however, it was enough to answer our end; for from our
22 bushels of barley we brought in and thrashed out above
220 bushels, and the like in proportion^f the rice; which was
store enough for 'our food to the next harvest, though all
the 16 Spaniards had been on shore with me; or if we had
been ready for a voyage, it would very plentifully have
victualled our ship to have carried us to any part of the
world, that is to say, of America.
When we had thus housed and secured our magazine
of corn, we fell to work to make more wicker work, viz.,
great baskets, in which we kept it; and the Spaniard was very
handy and dexterous at this part, and often blamed me that
I did not make some things for defence of this kind of
work1; but I saw no need of it.
And now having a full supply of food for all the guests
expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over the main,
to see what he could do with those he had left behind him
there. I gave him a strict charge in writing2 not to bring
any man with him who would not first swear, in the presence
of himself and of the old savage, that he would no way
injure, fight with, or attack the person he should find in the
island, who was so kind to send for them in order to their
deliverance; but that they would stand by and defend him
against all such attempts, and wherever they went, would
be entirely under and subjected to his commands; and that
this should be put in writing, and signed with their hands:
how we were to have this done, when I knew they had
1 of this kind of work: i.e., of wickerwork.
8 charge in wiling: This, of course, is inconsistent with Crusoe's previous
statement that his ink had given out.
neither pen or ink, that, indeed, was a question which.we
never asked.
Under these instructions the Spaniard and the old savage,
the father of Friday, went away in one of the canoes which
they might be said to come in, or rather were brought in,
when they came as prisoners to be devoured by the savages.
I gave each of them a musket with a firelock on it, and
about eight charges of powder and ball, charging them to
be very good husbands of both, and not to use either of them
but upon urgent occasion.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used
by me, in view of my deliverance, for now 27 years and
some days. I gave them provisions of bread and of dried
grapes sufficient for themselves for many days, and sufficient
for all their countrymen for about eight days' time; and
wishing them a good voyage, I see them go, agreeing with
them about a signal they should hang out at their return, by
which I should know them again, when they came back, at a
distance, before they came on shore.
They went away with a fair gale on the day that the
moon was at full; by my account, in the month of October;
but as for an exact reckoning of days, after I had once
lost it, I could never recover it again; nor had I kept even
the number of years so punctually as to be sure that I was
right, though, as it proved, when I afterwards examined
my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of years.
It was no less than eight days I had waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which
the like has not perhaps been heard of in history: I was
fast asleep in my hutch one morning, when my man Friday
came running in to me, and called aloud, "Master, master,
they are come, they are come!"
I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as
soon as I could get my clothes on, through my little grove,
which, by the way, was by this time grown to be a very
thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I went without
my arms, which was not my custom to do; but I was sur-
prised when, turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw
a boat at about a league and half's distance, standing in for
the shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it,
and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in; also I
observed presently that they did not come from that side
which the shore lay on1, but from the southermost end of
the island: upon this I called Friday in, and bid him lie
close, for these were not the people we looked for, and that
we might not know yet whether they were friends or
enemies.
In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective
glass, to see what I could make of them; and having taken
the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I
used to do when I was apprehensive of anything, and to
take my view the plainer without being discovered.
I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye plainly
discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at about two leagues
and an half's distance from me, south-southeast, but not above
a league and an half from the shore. By my observation it
appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the boat appeared
to be an English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in, though the joy
of seeing a ship, and one who I had reason to believe was
manned by my own countrymen, and consequently friends,
was such as I cannot describe; but yet I had some secret
doubts hung about me, I cannot tell from whence they
came, bidding me keep upon my guard. In the first place,
it occurred to me to consider what business an English ship
could have in that part of the world, since it was not the
way to or from any part of the world where the English
had any traffic; and I knew there had been no storms to
1 that side which the shore lay on: Defoe thinks of the land which is visible from
the island. Parts of the mainland did lie to the south,—cf. note, p. 236,—but at a
greater distance.
drive them in there, as in distress; and that if they were
English really, it was most probable that they were here
upon no good design; and that I had better continue as I
was, than fall into the hands of thieves and murtherers.
Let no man despise the secret hints1 and notices of
danger which sometimes are given him when he may think
there is no possibility of its being real. That such hints
and notices are given us, I believe few that have made any
observations of things can deny; that they are certain dis-
coveries2 of an invisible world, and a converse of spirits3,
we cannot doubt; and if the tendency of them seems to be
to warn us of danger, why should we not suppose they are
from some friendly agent (whether supreme, or inferior and
subordinate, is not the question), and that they are given
for our good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in the
justice of this reasoning; for had I not been made cautious
by this secret admonition, come it from whence it will, I
had been undone inevitably, and in a far worse condition
than before, as you will see presently.
I had not kept myself long in this posture but I saw the
boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to
thrust in at for the convenience of landing; however, as
they did not come quite far enough, they did not see the
little inlet where I formerly landed my rafts, but run their
boat on shore upon the beach, at about half a mile from me,
which was very happy for me; for otherwise they would
have landed just, as I may say, at my door, and would soon
have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered
me of all I had.
When they "were on shore, I was fully satisfied that they
were Englishmen, at least most of them; one or two I
thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so: there were in
1 secret hints, etc.: Cf. note on p. 228.
2 certain discoveries', unmistakable revelations.
1 a converse of spirits: a communication or intercourse with spirits.
all eleven men, whereof three of them I found were unarmed,
and, as I thought, bound; and when the first four or five of
them were jumped on shore, they took those three out of the
boat as prisoners: one of the three I could perceive using
the most passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction, and
despair, even to a kind of extravagance; the other two I
could perceive lifted up their hands sometimes, and appeared
concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the first.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not
what the meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me
in English, as well as he could, "O master! you see English
mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans." "Why," says I,
"Friday, do you think they are a-going to eat them, then?"
"Yes," says Friday, "they will eat them." "No, no," says I,
"Friday, I am afraid they will murther them, indeed, but
you may be sure they will not eat them."
All this while I had no thought of what the matter
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of the sight,
expecting every moment when the three prisoners should
be killed; nay, once I saw one of the villains lift up his
arm with a great cutlash, as the seamen call it, or sword, to
strike one of the poor men; and I expected to see him fall
every moment, at which all the blood in my body seemed to
run chill in my veins.
I wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage
that was gone with him, or that I had any way to have
come undiscovered within shot of them, that I might have
rescued the three men, for I saw no firearms they had
among them; but it fell out to my mind another way.
After I had observed the outrageous usage of the three
men by the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows run
scattering about the land, as if they wanted to see the
country: I observed that the three other men had liberty to
go also where they pleased; but they sat down all three upon
the ground, very pensive, and looked like men in despair.
This put me in mind of the first time when I came on
shore, and began to look about me; how I gave myself over
for lost; how wildly I looked round me; what dreadful
apprehensions I had; and how I lodged in the tree all night
for fear of being devoured by wild beasts.
As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was to
receive by the providential driving of the ship nearer the
land by the storms and tide, by which I have since been so
long nourished and supported; so these three poor desolate
men knew nothing how certain of deliverance and supply
they were, how near it was to them, and how effectually and
really they were in a condition of safety, at the same time
that they thought themselves lost, and their case desperate.
So little do we see before us in the world, and so much
reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the great Maker
of the world, that He does not leave His creatures so abso-
lutely destitute, but that in the worst circumstances they
have always something to be thankful for, and sometimes are
nearer their deliverance than they imagine; nay, are even
brought to their deliverance by the means by which they
seem to be brought to their destruction.
It was just at the top of high-water when these people
came on shore, and while partly they stood parleying with
the prisoners they brought, and partly while they rambled
about to see what kind of a place they were in, they had care-
lessly stayed till the tide was spent, and the water was
ebbed considerably away, leaving their boat aground.
They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found
afterwards, having drank a little too much brandy, fell
asleep; however, one of them waking sooner than the other,
and finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it,
hollowed for the rest, who were straggling about, upon which
they all soon came to the boat; but it was past all their
strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy, and the shore
on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost like a quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are perhaps
the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave it
over, and away they strolled about the country again; and I
heard one of them say aloud to another, calling them off
from the boat, "Why, let her alone, Jack, can't ye? she will
float next tide;" by which I was fully confirmed in the main
inquiry of what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring
to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place of
observation near the top of the hill; and very glad I was to
think how well it was fortified: I knew it was no less than
ten hours before the boat could be on float again, and by
that time it would be dark, and I might be at more liberty
to see their motions, and to hear their discourse, if they
had any.
In the mean time, I fitted myself up for a battle, as
before, though with more caution, knowing I had to do with
another kind of enemy than I had at first: I ordered Friday
also, who I had made an excellent marksman with his gun,
to load himself with arms: I took myself two fowling-
pieces, and I gave him three muskets; my figure, indeed, was
very fierce; I had my formidable goat-skin coat on, with the
great cap I have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two
pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have made
any attempt till it was dark: but about two o'clock, being the
heat of the day, I found that, in short, they were all gone
straggling into the woods, and, as I thought, were laid down
to sleep. The three poor distressed men, too anxious for
their condition to get any sleep, were, however, set down
under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a
mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any of
the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and
learn something of their condition: immediately I marched
in the figure as above, my man Friday at a good distance
behind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but not making
quite so staring a spectre-like figure as I did.
I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then,
before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in
Spanish, "What are ye, gentlemen?"
They started up at the noise, but were ten times more
confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that
I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought I per-
ceived them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to
them in English: "Gentlemen," said I, "do not be surprised
at me; perhaps you may have a friend near you, when you did
not expect it." "He must be sent directly from heaven,
then," said one of them very gravely to me, and pulling
off his hat at the same time to me, "for our condition is past
the help of man." "All help is from heaven, sir," said I.
"But can you put a stranger in the way how to help you? for
you seem to me to be in some great distress. I saw you
-when you landed, and when you seemed to make applicationt,
to the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift
up his sword to kill you."
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and
trembling, looking like one astonished1, returned, "Am I
talking to God, or man? Is it a real man, or an angel?"
"Be in no fear about that, sir," said I; "if God had sent
an angel to relieve you, he would have come better clothed,
and armed after another manner than you see me in;
pray lay aside your fears; I am a man, an Englishman, and
disposed to assist you, you see; I have one servant only; we
have arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can we serve
you? What is your case?"
"Our case," said he, "sir, is too long to tell you while
our murtherers are so near; but in short, sir, I was com-
mander of that ship; my men have mutinied against me;
1 astonished: 'thunderstruck'; today the word is weaker.
they have been hardly prevailed on not to murther me, and
at last have set me on shore in this desolate place, with these
two men with me, one my mate, the other a passenger, where
we expected to perish, believing the place to be uninhabited,
and know not yet what to think of it."
"Where are those brutes, your enemies?" said I. "Do
you know where they are gone?" "There they lie, sir,"
said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; "my heart trembles
for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak; if they
have, they will certainly murther us all."
"Have they any firearms?" said I. He answered, they
had only two pieces, and one which they left in the boat.
"Well then," said I, "leave the rest to me; I see they are
all asleep; it is an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we
rather take them prisoners?" He told me there were two
desperate villains among them that it was scarce safe to
shew any mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all
the rest would return to their duty. I asked him which
they were. He told me he could not at that distance
describe them, but he would obey my orders in anything I
would direct. "Well," says I," let us retreat out of their
view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve
further;" so they willingly went back with me, till the
woods covered us from them.
"Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliver-
ance, are you willing to make two conditions with me?"
He anticipated my proposals by telling me that both he and
the ship, if recovered, should be wholly directed and com-
manded by me in everything; and if the ship was not recov-
ered, he would live and die with me in what part of the
world soever I would send him; and the two other men
said the same.
"Well," says I, "my conditions are but two. 1. That
while you stay on this island with me, you will not pretend
to any authority here; and if I put arms into your hands,
you will upon all occasions give them up to me, and do no
prejudice to me or mine upon this island, and in the mean
time, be governed by my orders.
"2. That if the ship is or may be recovered, you will
carry me and my man to England passage free."
He gave me all the assurances that the invention and
faith of man could devise that he would comply with these
most reasonable demands, and besides would owe his life
to me, and acknowledge it upon all occasions as long as he
lived. "Well then," said I, "here are three muskets for
you, with powder and ball; tell me next what you think is
proper to be done." He shewed all the testimony of his
gratitude that he was able, but offered to be wholly guided
by me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing any-
thing; but the best method I could think of was to fire upon
them at once, as they lay, and if any was not killed at the
first volley, and offered to submit, we might save them, and
so put it wholly upon God's providence to direct the shot.
He said, very modestly, that he was loath to kill them,
if he could help it, but that those two were incorrigible
villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in the
ship, and if they escaped, we should be undone still; for
they would go on board and bring the whole ship's company,
and destroy us all. "Well then," says I, "necessity legiti-
mates my advice, for it is the only way to save our lives."
However, seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, I told
him they should go themselves, and manage as they found
convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them
awake, and soon after, we saw two of them on their feet: I
asked him. if either of them were of the men who he had said
were the heads of the mutiny. He said, "No." "Well, then,"
said I, "you may let them escape; and Providence seems to
have wakened them on purpose to save themselves. Now,"
says I, "if the rest escape you, it is your fault."
Animated with this, he took the musket I had given
him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two com-
rades with him, with each man a piece in his hand. The two
men who were with him going first, made some noise, at
which one of the seamen, who was awake, turned about, and
seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too
late then, for the moment he cried out, they fired; I mean
the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece:
they had so well aimed their shot at the men they knew,
that one of them was killed on the spot, and the other very
much wounded; but not being dead, he started up upon his
feet, and called eagerly for help to the other; but the
captain, stepping to him, told him 't was too late to cry for
help, he should call upon God to forgive his villainy, and
with that word knocked him down with the stock of his
musket, so that he never spoke more: there were three
more in the company, and one of them was also slightly
wounded: by this time I was come, and when they saw
their danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged
for mercy: the captain told them he would spare their lives,
if they would give him any assurance of their abhorrence of
the treachery they had been guilty of, and would swear to be
faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in
carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they came: they
gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be
desired, and he was willing to believe them, and spare their
lives, which I was not against, only that I obliged1 him to
keep them bound hand and foot while they were upon the
island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's
mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring away
the oars and sail, which they did; and by and by three
straggling men, that were (happily for them) parted from
the rest, came back upon hearing the guns fired, and seeing
i obliged: put him under obligation, made him agree. The men were not
-eally kept bound.
their captain, who before was their prisoner, now their
conqueror, they submitted to be bound also; and so our
victory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire
into one another's circumstances: I began first, and told him
my whole history, which he heard with an attention even
to amazement; and particularly at the wonderful manner of
my being furnished with provisions and ammunition; and,
indeed, as my story is a whole collection of wonders, it
affected him deeply; but when he reflected from thence upon
himself, and how I seemed to have been preserved there on
purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he
could not speak a word more.
After this communication was at an end, I carried him
and his two men into my apartment, leading them in just
where I came out, viz., at the top of the house, where I
refreshed them with such provisions as I had, and shewed
them all the contrivances I had made during my long, long
inhabiting that place.
All I shewed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; but above all, the captain admired my fortification-,
and how perfectly I had concealed my retreat with a grove
of trees, which having been now planted near twenty years,
and the trees growing much faster than in England, was
become a little wood, and so thick that it was unpassable in
any part of it but at that one side where I had reserved my
little winding passage into it: I told him this was my castle
and my residence, but that I had a seat in the country, as
most princes have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and
I would shew him that too another time; but at present our
business was to consider how to recover the ship: he agreed
with me as to that, but told me he was perfectly at a loss
what measures to take, for that there were still six and
twenty hands on board, who, having entered into a cursed
conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives to the
law, would be hardened in it now by desperation, and would
carry it on, knowing that if they were reduced, they should
be brought to the gallows as soon as they came to Eng-
land, or to any of the English colonies; and that therefore
there would be no attacking them with so small a number
as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and
found it was a very rational conclusion, and that therefore
something was to be resolved on very speedily, as well to
draw the men on board into some snare for their surprise, as
to prevent their landing upon us, and destroying us; upon
this it presently occurred to me that in a little while the ship's
crew, wondering what was become of their comrades and of
the boat, would certainly come on shore in their other boat to
see for them, and that then, perhaps, they might come armed,
and be too strong for us; this he allowed was rational.
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was
to stave the boat which lay upon the beach, so that they
might not carry her off; and taking everything out of her,
leave her so far useless as not to be fit to swim; accord-
ingly we went on board, took the arms which were left on
board out of her, and whatever else we found there, which
was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit-
cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar in a
piece of canvas; the sugar was five or six pounds; all
which was very welcome to me, especially the brandy and
sugar, of which I had had none left for many years. When
we had carried all these things on shore (the oars, mast,
sail, and rudder of the boat were carried away before, as
above), we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if they
had come strong enough to master us, yet they could not
carry off the boat.
Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that we could
be able to recover the ship; but my view was, that if they
went away without the boat, I did not much question to
make her fit again to carry us away to the Leeward Islands,
and call upon our friends, the Spaniards, in my way, for I
had them still in my thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first,
by main strength, heaved the boat up upon the beach so
high that the tide would not fleet her off at high-water-
mark, and besides, had broke a hole in her bottom too big
to be quickly stopped, and were sat down musing what we
should do, we heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her make
a waft with her ancient1 as a signal for the boat to come
on board; but no boat stirred; and they fired several times,
making other signals for the boat.
At last, when all their signals and firings proved fruit-
less, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by
the help of my glasses, hoist another boat out, and row
towards the shore; an<J we found, as they approached, that
there was no less than ten men in her, and that they had
firearms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we
had a full view of them as they came, and a plain sight of
the men, even of their faces, because the tide having set them
a little to the east of the other boat, they rowed up under
shore, to come to the same place where the other had landed,
and where the boat lay.
By this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and
the captain knew the persons and characters of all the men
in the boat, of whom he said that there were three very
honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this con-
spiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frighted. But
that as for the boatswain, who it seems was the chief officer
among them, and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any
of the ship's grew, and were no doubt made desperate in
their new enterprise; and terribly apprehensive he was that
they would be too powerful for us.
1waft with her ancient: signal with her flag. ,
I smiled at him, and told him that men in our circum-
stances were past the operation of fear: that seeing almost
every- condition that could be was better than that which
we were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the con-
sequence, whether death or life, would be sure to be a
deliverance: I asked him what he thought of the circum-
stances of my life, and whether a deliverance were not worth
venturing for. "And where, sir," said I, "is your belief
of my being preserved here on purpose to save your life,
which elevated you a little while ago? For my part," said
I, "there seems to be but one thing amiss in all the prospect
of it." "What's that?" says he. "Why," said I, " 't is that,
as you say, there are three or four honest fellows among
them, which should be spared; had they been all of the
wicked part of the crew, I should have thought God's provi-
dence had singled them out to deliver them into your hands;
for depend upon it, every man of them that comes ashore
are our own, and shall die or live as they behave to us."
As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful counte-
nance, I found it greatly encouraged him; so we set vigorously
to our business: we had, upon the first appearance of the
boat's coming from the ship, considered of separating our
prisoners, and had, indeed, secured them effectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured than
ordinary, I sent with Friday and one of the three delivered
men to my cave, where they were remote enough, and out
of danger of being heard or discovered, or of finding their
way out of the woods, if they could have delivered them-
selves: here they left them bound, but gave them provisions,
and promised them, if they continued there quietly, to give
them their liberty in a day or two; but that if they attempted
their escape, they should be put to death without mercy:
they promised faithfully to bear their confinement with
patience, and were very thankful that they had such good
usage as to have provisions and a light left them; for Friday
gave them candles (such as we made ourselves) for their
comfort; and they did not know but that he stood sentinel
over them at the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of them
were kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not free
to trust them; but the other two were taken into my service
upon their captain's recommendation, and upon their
solemnly engaging to live and die with us; so with them and
the three honest men we were seven men, well armed; and I
made no doubt we should be able to deal well enough with
the ten that were a-coming, considering that the captain
had said there were three or four honest men among
them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other boat
lay, they run their boat into the beach, and came all on
shore, haling the boat up after them, which I was glad to
see; for I was afraid they would rather have left the boat at
an anchor, some distance from the shore, with some hands
in her to guard her, and so we should not be able to seize
the boat.
Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to
their other boat; and it was easy to see that they were
under a great surprise to find her stripped, as above, of all
that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom.
After they had mused a while upon this, they set up two
or three great shouts, hollowing with all their might, to try
if they could make their companions hear; but all was to
no purpose: then they came all close in a ring, and fired
a volley of their small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and
the echoes made the woods ring; but it was all one; those
in the cave we were sure could not hear, and those in our
keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no
answer to them.
They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that, as
they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board
again to their ship, and let them know* that the men were
all murthered, and the long-boat staved; accordingly, they
immediately launched their boat again, and gat all of them
on board.
The captain was terribly amazed and even confounded
at this, believing they would go on board the ship again,
and set sail, giving their comrades for lost, and so he should
still lose the ship, which he was in hopes we should have
recovered; but he was quickly as much frighted the other
way.
They had not been long put off with the boat but we
perceived them all coming on shore again; but with this
new measure in their conduct, which it seems they con-
sulted together upon, viz., to leave three men in the boat,
and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the country to
look for their fellows.
This was a great disappointment to us, for now we were
at a loss what to do; for our seizing those seven men on
shore would be no advantage to us if we let the boat escape;
because they would then row away to the ship, and then the
rest of them would be sure to weigh and set sail, and so our
recovering the ship would be lost.
However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what
the issue of things might present; the seven men came on
shore, and the three who remained in the boat put her off
to a good distance from the shore, and came to an anchor
to wait for them; so that it was impossible for us to come at
them in the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together, marching
towards the top of the little hill under which my habitation
lay; and we could see them plainly, though they could not
perceive us: we could have been very glad they would have
come nearer to us, so that we might have fired at them, or
that they would have gone farther off, that we might have
come abroad.
But when they were come to the brow of the hill, where
they could see a great way into the valleys and woods,
which lay towards the northeast part, and where the island
lay lowest, they shouted and hollowed till they were weary;
and not caring, it seems, to venture far from the shore,
nor far from one another, they sat down together under
a tree, to consider of it: had they thought fit to have
gone to sleep there as the other party of them had done,
they had done the job for us; but they were too full of
apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep, though
they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear
neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this
consultation of theirs, viz., that perhaps they would all fire
a volley again, to endeavor to make their fellows hear, and
that we should all. sally upon them just at the juncture
when their pieces were all discharged, and they would cer-
tainly yield, and we should have them without bloodshed: I
liked the proposal, provided it was done while we were near
enough to come up to them before they could load their
pieces again. But this event did not happen, and we lay still
a long time, very irresolute what course to take; at length
I told them there would be nothing to be done, in my
opinion, till night, and then, if they did not return to the
boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them and
the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them in
the boat, to get them on shore.
We waited a great while, though very impatient for
their removing; and were very uneasy, when, after long
consultations, we saw them start all up, and march. down
toward the sea: it seems they had such dreadful appre-
hensions upon them of the danger of the place that they
resolved to go on board the ship again, give their companions
over for lost, and so go on with their intended voyage
with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, 1
imagined it to be as it really was, that they had given over
their search, and were for going back again; and the captain,
as soon as I told him my thoughts, was ready to sink at
the apprehensions of it; but I presently thought of a
stratagem to fetch them back again, and which answered
my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over the
little creek westward, towards the place where the savages
came on shore when Friday was rescued; and as soon as
they came to a little rising ground, at about half a mile
distance, I bade them hollow as loud as they could, and wait
till they found the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever
they heard the seamen answer them, they should return
it again, and then keeping out of sight, take a round,
always answering when the other hollowed, to draw them
as far into the island, and among the woods, as possible,
and then wheel about again to me by such ways as I
directed them.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and
the mate hollowed; and they presently heard them, and
answering, run along the shore westward, towards the voice
they heard, when they were presently stopped by the creek,
where, the water being up, they could not get over, and
called for the boat to come up and set them over, as, indeed,
I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed that
the boat being gone up a good way into the creek, and, as
it were, in a harbor within the land, they took one of the
three men out of her to go along with them, and left only
two in the boat, having fastened her to the stump of a little
tree on the shore.
This was what I wished for; and immediately leaving
Friday and the captain's mate to their business, I took the
rest with me, and crossing the creek out of their sight, we
surprised the two men before they were aware, one of them
lying on shore, and the other being in the boat; the fellow
on shore was between sleeping and waking, and going to
start up, the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him,
and knocked him down, and then called out to him in the
boat to yield, or he was a dead man.
There needed very few arguments to persuade a single
man to yield, when he saw five men upon him, and his
comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems, one
of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the
rest of the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded not only
to yield, but afterwards to join very sinceret, with us.
In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate so well
managed their business with the rest, that they drew them
by hollowing and answering, from one hill to another, and
from one wood to another, till they not only heartily tired
them, but left them where they were very sure they could
not reach back to the boat before it was dark; and, indeed,
they were heartily tired themselves, also, by the time they
came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in
the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work
with them.
It was several hours after Friday came back to me
before they came back to their boat; and we could hear the
foremost of them, long before they came quite up, calling
to those behind to come along, and could also hear them
answer, and complain how lame and tired they were, and not
able to come any faster, which was very welcome news
to us.
At length they came up to the boat; but 't is impossible
to express their confusion, when they found the boat fast
aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two men
gone: we could hear them call to one another in a most
lamentable manner, telling one another they were gotten
into an enchanted island; that either there were inhabitants
in it, and they should all be murthered, or else there were
devils and spirits in it, and they should be all carried away
and devoured.
They hollowed again, and called their two comrades by
their names a great many times; but no answer. After some
time, we could see them, by the little light there was, run
about wringing their hands like men in despair; and that
sometimes they would go and sit down in the boat to rest
themselves, then come ashore again, and walk about again,
and so over the same thing again.
My men would fain have me given* them leave to fall
upon them at once in the dark; but I was willing to take
them at some advantage, so to spare them, and kill as few of
them as I could; and especially I was unwilling to hazard the
killing any of our own men, knowing the other were very
well armed. I resolved to wait to see if they did not
separate; and therefore, to make sure of them, I drew my
ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain to
creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the ground as
they could, that they might not be discovered, and get as
near them as they could possibly, before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture but that the boat-
swain, who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and
had now shewn himself the most dejected and dispirited of
all the rest, came walking towards them with two more of
their crew; the captain was so eager, as having this principal
rogue so much in his power, that he could hardly have
patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him, for
they only heard his tongue before; but when they came
nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up on their feet,
let fly at them.
The boatswain was killed upon the spot: the next man
was shot into the body, and fell just by him, though he did
not die till an hour or two after; and the third run for it.
At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced with my
whole army, which was now eight men, viz., myself, gen-
eralissimo, Friday, my lieutenant-general, the captain and
his two men, and the three prisoners of war who we had
trusted with arms.
We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they
could not see our number; and I made the man they^ had
left in the boat, who was now one of us, call to them by name,
to try if I could bring them to a parley, and so might
perhaps reduce them to terms, which fell out just as we
desired; for, indeed, it was easy to think, as their condition
then was, they would be very willing to capitulate; so
he calls out as loud as he could to one of them, "Tom
Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith answered immediately,
"Who's that? Robinson?" for it seems he knew his voice.
T' other answered, "Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom Smith,
throw down your arms and yield, or you are all dead men
this moment."
"Who must we yield to? Where are they?" says Smith
again. "Here they are," says he; "here's our captain, and
fifty men with him, have been hunting you this two hours;
the boatswain is killed, Will Frye is wounded, and I am a
prisoner; and if you do not yield, you are all lost."
"Will they give us quarter then," says Tom Smith,
"and we will yield1?" "I'll go and ask, if you promise to
yield," says Robinson; so he asked the captain, and the
captain then calls himself out, "You, Smith, you know my
voice; if you lay down your arms immediately, and submit,
you shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins."
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, cap-
tain, give me quarter; what have I done? They have been
all as bad as I;" which, by the way, was not true neither;
for, it seems, this Will Atkins was the first man that laid
hold of the captain, when they first mutinied, and used him
1 and we will yield: if we will yield.
barbarously, in tying his hands and giving him injurious
language. However, the captain told him he must lay
down his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's
mercy; by which he meant me, for they all called me
governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged
their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with them,
and two more, who bound them all; and then my great
army of fifty men, which, particularly with those three,
were all but1 eight, came up and seized upon them all, and
upon their l)oat; only that I kept myself and one more out of
sight, for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of
seizing the ship; and as for the captain, now he had leisure
to parley with them^ he expostulated with them upon the
villainy of their practices with him, and at length upon the
farther wickedness of their design, and how certainly it
must bring them to misery and distress in the end, and
perhaps to the gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for
their lives: as for that, he told them they were none of his
prisoners, but the commander* of the island; that they
thought they had set him on shore in a barren, uninhabited
island, but it had pleased God so to direct them, that the
island was inhabited, and that the governor was an English-
man; that he might hang them all there, if he pleased; but
as he had given them all quarter, he supposed he would send
them to England, to be dealt with there as justice required,
except Atkins, who he was commanded by the governor to
advise to prepare for death; for that he would be hanged in
the morning.
Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had its
desired effect; Atkins fell upon his knees to beg the captain
to intercede with the governor for his life; and all the rest
1 were all: i.e., were in all.
begged of him, for God's sake, that they might not be sent
to England.
It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance
was come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring
these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the
ship; so I retired in the dark from them, that they might
not see what kind of a governor they had, and called the
captain to me; when I called, as at a good distance, one
of the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the
captain, "Captain, the commander calls for yeu;" and pres-
ently the captain replied, "Tell his Excellency, I am just
a-coming." This more perfectly amused1 them, and they
all believed that the commander was just by with his
fifty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my project
for seizing the ship, which he liked of wonderfully well,
and resolved to put it in execution the next morning.
But in order to execute it with more art, and secure2*
of success, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and that
he should go and take Atkins and two more of the worst of
them, and send them pinioned to the cave where the others
lay: this was committed to Friday and the two men who
came on shore with the captain.
They conveyed them to the cave as to a prison; and it
was, indeed, a dismal place, especially to men in their
condition.
The other3 I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of
which I have given a full description; and as it was fenced in,
and they pinioned, the place was secure enough, considering
they were upon their behavior.
To these4 in the morning I sent the captain, who was
to enter into a parley with them, in a word, to try them, and
1 amused: deluded.
1 secure: sure, certain.
lthe other: i.e., the others, the other [men]; cf. p. 195.
* to these: Ambiguous. It may refer to the men in the bower, or to all the
prisoners, wherever situated.
tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or no to
go on board and surprise the ship. He talked to them of
the injury done him, of the condition they were brought to;
and that though the governor had given them quarter for
their lives as to the present action, yet that if they were
sent to England, they would all be hanged in chains, to
be sure; but that if they would join in so just an attempt as
to recover the ship, he would have the governor's engagement
for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would
be accepted by men in their condition; they fell down on
their knees to the captain, and promised, with the deepest
imprecations, that they would be faithful to him to the last
drop, and that they should owe their lives to him, and
would go with him all over the world; that they would own
him for a father to them as long as they lived.
"Well," says the captain, "I must go and tell the gov-
ernor what you say, and see what I can do to bring him to
consent to it:" so he brought me an account of the temper
he found them in, and that he verily believed they would
be faithful.
However, that we might be very secure, I told him he
should go back again and choose out five of them*, and tell
them that they might see that he did not want men, that
he would take out those fivet, to be his assistants, and that
the governor would keep the other two, and the three that
were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave) as hostages for
the fidelity of those five; and that if they proved unfaithful
in the execution, the five hostages should be hanged in chains
alive upon the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that the governor
was in earnest; however, they had no way left them but
to accept it; and it was now the business of the prisoners,
as much as of the captain, to persuade the other five to do
their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered1 for the expedition:
1. The captain, his mate, and passenger. 2. Then the two
prisoners of the first gang, to whom, having their characters
from the captain, I had given their liberty, and trusted them
with arms. 3. The other two who I had kept till now in
my apartment, pinioned; but upon the captain's motion, had
now released. 4. The single man taken in the boat.
5. These five released at last: so that they were thirteen in
all, besides five we kept prisoners in the cave, and the two
hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the ship; for as for me and my man
Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to stir, having
1 Our strength was now thus ordered, etc.: In this part of the story, as elsewhere;
Defoe succeeds in getting an effect of verisimilitude with his figures, but here at
least he is rather badly muddled. He evidently felt that something was wrong,
for in the table of errata at the end of the first edition he attempted to patch
things up by the following changes: "for apartment read bower; dele the singi
man taken in the boat 5; for thirteen read twelve; [for] and the two read for". Thes^
changes, which have been followed in all subsequent editions, only make th\
muddle worse, as can be shown by a brief review of the narrative:
18 mutineers came ashore, 8 in the first boat and 10 in the second. Of the
first 8, 2 were killed, and 6 surrendered, of whom 2 at once joined the Captain's
party, 2 were sent to the cave, and 2 were "pinioned," in a place not mentioned.
Of the 10 men of the second gang, 1 was "knocked down" by the Captain and
apparently killed (at least, there is no reference to him later); 1, "the single man
taken in the boat," joins the Captain's party at once; 2 are shot and killed by the
Captain and Friday; 6, therefore, remain to be made prisoners. Of these 6, 3
are sent to the cave; "the other[s]," number not given, are pinioned in the bower.
The situation at the end of the day is then as follows: there are 10 prisoners, of
whom 5 are in the cave, 2 pinioned in a place not named, and 3,—in regard to whom
it is to be noted that Defoe does not give their number directly,—are in the bower;
there are 8 in the captain's party, Crusoe and Friday, the captain and the two
passengers, the 2 men from the first gang of mutineers, and "the man taken in the
boat;" the total number of men alive on the island is 18.
Defoe's mistakes begin to appear when Crusoe rearranges the men for the
expedition to the ship on the second day. The paragraph beginning "However,
that we might be very secure" is entirely inconsistent with previous statements,
and the references in it cannot be satisfactorily interpreted. It is clear, however,
from the original form of the paragraph enumerating the attacking force, that
Defoe has swelled the numbers on the istand from 18 to 22, there being 20 named
in the paragraph and Crusoe and Friday besides. The corrections in the table
of errata reduce the total number to 19, but this is not the 18 of the previous night.
Moreover, two inconsistencies are involved in the changes: first, "the man taken in
the boat," if not listed separately as in the first version, must disappear altogether;
second, the two following paragraphs of the text indicate that after the 12 of the
attacking force had left there were 7 on the island besides Crusoe and Friday,
making a total of 21. Defoe has apparently at one time counted two of his dead
mutineers as living and at another time resuscitated four of them; and in trying
to patch things up, he has involved himself worse by erasing altogether the man
in the boat. There is no feasible way of securing a consistent text, and the original
reading had best be left intact.
seven men left behind; and it was employment enough
for us to keep them asunder, and supply them with
victuals.
As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast,
but Friday went in twice a day to them, to supply them with
necessaries; and I-made the other two carry provisions to a
certain distance, where Friday was to take it.
When I shewed myself to the two hostages, it was with-
the captain, who told them I was the person the governor
had ordered to look after them, and that it was the gov-
ernor's pleasure they should not stir anywhere but by my
direction; that if they did, they should be fetched into the
castle, and be laid in irons; so that as we never suffered
them to see me as governor, so I now appeared as another
person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle,
and the like, upon all occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to
furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them.
He made his passenger captain of one, with four other men;
and himself, and his mate, and six more, went in the other:
and they contrived their business very well: for they came
up to the ship about midnight: as soon as they came within
call of the ship, he made Robinson hail them, and tell them
they had brought off the men and the boat, but that it was
a long time before they had found them, and the like; hold-
ing them in a chat till they came to the ship's side; when the
captain and the mate entering first with their arms, immedi-
ately knocked down the second mate and carpenter with
the butt-end of their muskets.1' Being very faithfully
seconded by their men, they secured all the rest that were
upon the main and quarter decks, and began to fasten the
hatches to keep them down who were below, when the other
boat and their men, entering at the fore chains, secured the
forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle which went down into
the cook room, making three men they found there prisoners.
When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the captain
ordered the mate, with three men, to break into the round-
house, where the new rebel captain lay, and having taken
the alarm, was gotten up, and with two men and a boy had
gotten firearms in their hands; and when the mate, with a
crow, split open the door, the new captain and his men
fired boldly among them, and wounded the mate with a
musket ball, which broke his arm, and wounded two more
of the men, but killed nobody.
The mate, calling for help, rushed, however, into the
round-house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot
the new captain through the head, the bullet entering at his
mouth and came out again behind one of his ears, so that
he never spoke a word; upon which the rest yielded, and the
ship was taken effectually, without any more lives lost.
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered
seven guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon
with me to give me notice of his success, which, you may
be sure, I was very glad to hear, having sat watching upon
the shore for it till near two of the clock in the morning.
Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down;
and it having been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very
sound, till I was something surprised with the noise of a
gun; and presently starting up, I heard a man call me by
the name of "Governor! Governor!" and presently I knew
the captain's voice; when, climbing up to the top of the hill,
there he stood, and poirtting to the ship, he embraced me
in his arms. "My dear friend and deliverer," says he,
"there's your ship; for she is all yours, and so are we and
all that belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and
there she rode within little more than half a mile of the
shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they
were masters of her; and the weather being fair, had brought
her to an anchor just against the mouth of the little creek;
and the tide being up, the captain had brought the pinnace in
near the place where I at first landed my rafts, and so landed
just at my door.
I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise.
For I saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me
away whither I pleased to go. At first, for some time, I
was not able to answer him one word; but as he had taken
me in his arms, I held fast by him, or I should have fallen
to the ground.
He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulls a bottle
out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial, which he
had brought on purpose for me; after I had drank it, I sat
down upon the ground; and though it brought me to myself,
yet it was a good while before I could speak a word to him.
All this while the poor man was in as great an ecstasy
as I, only not under any surprise, as I was; and he said a
thousand kind tender things to me, to compose me and bring
me to myself; but such was the flood of joy in my breast,
that it put all my spirits into confusion; at last it broke out
into tears, and, in a little while after, I recovered my
speech.
Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer,
and we rejoiced together. I told him I looked upon him
as a man sent from Heaven to deliver me, and that the whole
transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such things
as these were the testimonies we had of a secret hand of Provi-
dence governing the world, and an evidence that the eyes of
an infinite Power could search into the remotest corner of the
world, and send help to the miserable whenever He pleased.
I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to
Heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless Him, Who
had not only in a miraculous manner provided for one in
such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condition, but
from Whom every deliverance must always be acknowledged
to proceed.
When we had talked a .while, the captain told me he had
brought me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded,
and such as the wretches that had been so long his master
had not plundered him of: upon this, he called aloud to the
boat, and bid his men bring the things ashore that were for
the governor; and, indeed, it was a present as if I had been
one, not that was to be carried away along with them, but
as if I had been to dwell upon the island still, and they were
to go without me.
First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of excel-
lent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine (the
bottles held two quarts apiece), two pound of excellent
good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and six
pieces of pork, with a bag of pease, and about a hundred-
weight of biscuit.
He brought me also a box of sugar, a box of flour, a
bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, and
abundance of other things: but besides these, and what was
a thousand times more useful to me, he brought me six clean
new shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one
pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings, and a very
good suit of clothes of his own, which had been worn but
very little; in a word, he clothed me from head to foot.
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one
may imagine, to one in my circumstances: but never was
anything in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward,
and uneasy, as it was to me to wear such clothes at their
first putting on.
After these ceremonies passed, and after all his good
things were brought into my little apartment, we began to
consult what was to be done with the prisoners we had; for
it was worth considering whether we might venture to take
them away with us or no, especially two of them, who we
knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the last degree;
and the captain said he knew they were such rogues that there
was no obliging them, and if- he did carry them away,
it must be in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered over
to justice at the first English colony he could come at;
and I found that the captain himself was very anxious
about it.
Upon this, I told him that, if he desired it, I durst
undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it their
own request that he should leave them upon the island. "I
should be very glad of that," says the captain, "with all
my heart."
"Well," says I, "I will send for them up, and talk
with them for you;" so I caused Friday and the two hostages,
for they were now discharged, their comrades having per-
formed their promise; I say, I caused them to go to the
cave, and bring up the five men, pinioned as they were,
to the bower, and keep them there till I came.
After some time I came thither dressed in my new habit,
and now I was called governor again; being all met, and
the captain with me, I caused the men to be brought before
me, and I told them I had had a full account of their
villainous behavior to the captain, and how they had run
away with the ship, and were preparing to commit farther
robberies, but that Providence had ensnared them in their
own ways, and that they were fallen into the pit which they
had digged for others.
I let them know that by my direction the ship had been
seized; that she lay now in the road1; and they might see,
by and by, that their new captain had received the reward
of his villainy, for that they might See him hanging at the
yard-arm.
That, as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
say why I should not execute them as pirates taken in the
fact, as by my commission they could not doubt I had
authority to do.
'road: a place where ships may ride at anchor; cf. Yarmouth Roads, p. 48 above.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that
they had nothing to say but this, that when they were taken,
the captain promised them their lives, and they humbly
implored my mercy; but I told them I knew not what
mercy to shew them; for as for myself, I had resolved to
quit the island with all my men, and had taken passage with
the captain to go for England: and as for the captain, he
could not carry them to England other than as prisoners in
irons, to be tried for mutiny, and running away with the
ship; the consequence of which, they must needs know, would
be the gallows; so that I could not tell which was best for
them, unless they had a mind to take their fate in the island;
if they desired that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave
it; I had some inclination to give them their lives, if they
thought they could shift on shore.
They seemed very thankful for it, said they would much
rather venture to stay there than to be carried to England
to be hanged; so I left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty
of it, as if he durst not leave them there: upon this I
seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him that
they were my prisoners, not his; and that seeing I had
offered them so much favor, I would be as good as my
word; and that if he did not think fit to consent to it, I
would set them at liberty, as I found them; and if he did
not like it, he might take them again if he could catch
them.
Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly
set them at liberty, and bade them retire into the woods to
the place whence they came, and I would leave them some
firearms, some ammunition, and some directions how they
should live very well, if they thought fit.
Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship, but told
the captain that I would stay that night to prepare my
things, and desired him to go on board in the mean time,
and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat on shore
the next day for me; ordering him in the mean time, to
cause the new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at the
yard-arm, that these men might see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me
to my apartment, and entered seriously into discourse with
them of their circumstances. I told them I thought they
had made a right choice; that if the captain carried them
away, they would certainly be hanged. I shewed them the
new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship, and told
them they had nothing less to expect.
When they had all jteclared their willingness to stay, I
then told them I would let them into the story of my
living there, and put them into the way of making it easy
to them: accordingly I gave them the whole history of
the place, and of my coming to it; shewed them my forti-
fications, the way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured
my grapes; and in a word, all that was necessary to make
them easy: I told them the story also of the sixteen
Spaniards that were to be expected, for whom I left a letter,
and made them promise to treat them in common with
themselves.
I left them my firearms, viz., five muskets, three fowling-
pieces, and three swords. I had above a barrel and half of
powder left; for after the first year or two I used but little,
and wasted none. I gave them a description of the way I
managed the goats, and directions to milk and fatten them,
and to make both butter and cheese.
In a word, I gave them every part of my own story;
and I told them I would prevail with the captain to leave
them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden
seeds, which I told them I would have been very glad of:
also, I gave them the bag of pease which the captain had
brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and
increase them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day and went
on board the ship: we prepared immediately to sail, but did
not weigh that night; the next morning early, two of the
five men came swimming to the ship's side, and making a
most lamentable complaint of the other three, begged to be
taken into the ship for God's sake, for they should be mur-
thered, and begged the captain to take them on board, though
he hanged them immediately.
Upon this the captain pretended to have no power with-
out me; but after some difficulty, and after their solemn
promises of amendment, they were taken on board, and
were some time after soundly whipped and pickled1; after
which they proved very honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore, the
- tide being up, with the things promised to the men, to which
the captain, at my intercession, caused their chests and
clothes to be added, which they took, and were very thankful
for; I also encouraged them, by telling them that if it lay in
my way to send any vessel to take them in, I would not
forget them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried on board,
for relics, the great goat's skin cap I had made, my umbrella,
and my parrot2*; also I forgot not to take the money I
formerly mentioned, which had lain by me so long useless
that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass
for silver till it had been a little rubbed and handled; as
also the money I found in the wreck of the Spanish ship.
1 pickled: To pickle was "to rub salt, or salt and vinegar, on the back after
whipping or flogging."—N.E.D. A nautical term.
Jmy parrot: Crusoe evidently refers here to his original parrot, forgetting that
on p. 233 he had imagined her still alive on the island. The change in the later
editions to "one of my parrots" was made by someone, perhaps by Defoe, to remove
the inconsistency.
In connection with Crusoe's leaving the island one asks himself some questions.
Would it not have been a courteous thing to leave for the Spaniards the money he
had taken from their wreck, instead of displaying quite so much thrifty forethought?
Why was it not possible to delay his departure a few days, in order to give the
Spaniards a chance to return? Why separate Friday and his father without a
thought?
And thus I left the island the 19th of December1, as I
found by the ship's account, in the year 16862, after I had
been upon it eight and twenty years 3, two months, and 19
days; being delivered from this second captivity4 the same
day of the month that I first made my escape in the barco-
longo^ from among the Moors of Sallee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England
the 11th of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty and
five years absent.
When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to
all the world as if I had never been known there. My bene-
factor and faithful steward, who I had left in trust with
my money6, was alive, but had had great misfortunes in the
world; was become a widow the second time, and very low
in the world: I made her easy as to what she owed me,
assuring her I would give her no trouble; but on the con-
trary, in gratitude to her former care and faithfulness to
me, I relieved her as my little stock would afford, which
at that time would, indeed, allow me to do but little for
her; but I assured her I would never forget her former
kindness to me; nor did I forget her when I had sufficient
to help her, as shall be observed in its place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father
was dead, and my mother and all the family extinct, except
that I found two sisters, and two of the children of one
of my brothers; and as I had been long ago given over for
li9th of December: The Spaniard and Friday's father left the island in
October, on October 31 at the latest. "No less than eight days" later the mutineers
came, and Crusoe left the island on the fifth day thereafter. The date of his de-
parture could not, therefore, have been later than the middle of November.
81686: Cf. note on p. 82, and note on "eight and twenty years" below.
* eight and twenty years: Crusoe's stay on the island was only 27 years according
to the dates given. It was also only 27 according to the details of the narrative.
For when Friday's father and the Spaniard left, Crusoe had been on the island a
few days over 27 years and the mutineers came in a week's time after their depart-
ure. Cf. note on p. 276.
* second captivity: The first captivity was among the Moors. The phrase con-
tains an allusion to the second captivity of the Israelites, among the Assyrians;
cf. II. Kings xvii.
J barco-longo: longboat.
'who 1 had left, etc.: We should say "with whom I had left my money in
trust."
dead, there had been no provision made for me; so that, in a
word, I found nothing to relieve or assist me; and that little
money I had would not do much for me as to settling in
the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did
not expect; and this was, that the master of the ship, who I
had so happily delivered, and by the same means saved the
ship and cargo, having given a very handsome account to
the owners of the manner how I had saved the lives of the
men, and the ship, they invited me to meet them and some
other merchants concerned, and all together* made me a
very handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present
of almost two hundred pounds sterling.
But after making several reflections upon the circum-
stances of my life, and how little way this would go towards
settling me in the world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see
if I might not come by some information of the state of
my plantation in the Brazils, and of what was become of my
partner, who I had reason to suppose had some years now
given me over for dead.
With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I
arrived in April following; my man Friday accompanying
me very honestly in all these ramblings, and proving a most
faithful servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and
to my particular satisfaction, my old friend, the captain of
the ship, who first took me up at sea off of the shore of
Africk: he was now grown old, and had left off the sea,
having put his son, who was far from a young man, into his
ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The old man
did not know me, and, indeed, I hardly knew him; but I
soon brought him to my remembrance, and as soon brought
myself to his remembrance when I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance,
I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation and my
partner: the old man told me he had not been in the Brazils
for about nine years; but that he could assure me, that when
he came away, my partner was living, but the trustees, who I
had joined with him to take cognizance of my part, were
both dead; that, however, he believed that I would have a
very good account of the improvement of the plantation;
for that, upon the general belief of my being cast away and
drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the
produce of my part of the plantation to the procurator
fiscal, who had appropriated it, in case I never came to claim
it, one third to the king, and two thirds to the monastery
of St. Augustine, to be expended for the benefit of the poor,
and for the conversion of the Indians to the Catholic faith;
but that, if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the
inheritance, it should be restored; only that the improvement
or annual production, being distributed to charitable uses,
could not be restored; but he assured me that the steward
of the king's revenue from lands, and the proviedore* or
steward of the monastery, had taken great care all along that
the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave every year a
faithful account of the produce, of which they received duly
my moiety.
I asked him if he knew to what height of improvement
he had brought the plantation, and whether he thought it
might be worth looking after; or whether, on my going
thither, I should meet with no obstruction to my possessing
my just right in the moiety.
He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree the
plantation was improved; but this he knew, that my partner
was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying but one half
of it; and that, to the best of his remembrance, he had heard
that the king's third of my part, which was, it seems,
granted away to some other monastery or religious house,
amounted to above two hundred moidores a year; that as to
my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there was no
question to be made of that, my partner being alive to
witness my title, and my name being also enrolled in the
register of the country; also he told me that the survivors
of my two trustees were very fair, honest people, and very
wealthy; and he believed I would not only have their
assistance for putting me in possession, but would find a
very considerable sum of money in their hands for my
account, being the produce of the farm while their fathers
held the trust, and before it was given up, as above, which,
as he remembered, was for about twelve years.
I shewed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this
account, and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass
that the trustees should thus dispose my effects, when he
knew that I had made my will, and had made him, the
Portuguese captain, my universal heir, &c.
He told me that was true; but that, as there was no
proof of my being dead, he could not act as executor, until
some certain account should come of my death; and that,
besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with a thing so
remote; that it was true he had registered my will, and
put in his claim; and could he have given any account of
my being dead or alive, he would have acted by procuration1,
and taken possession of the ingenio, so they called the sugar-
house, and had given2 his son, who was now at the Brazils,
order to do it.
"But," says the old man, "I have one piece of news
to tell you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable to you
as the rest; and that is, that believing you were lost, and
all the world believing so also, your partner and trustees
did offer to account to me, in your name, for six or eight
of the first years of profits, which I received; but there
being at that time," says he, "great disbursements for increas-
ing the works, building an ingenio, and buying slaves, it did
1by procuration: by proxy. A procuration was equivalent to a power of
attorney.
zhad given: i.e., would have given.
not amount to near so much as afterwards it produced: how-
ever," says the old man, "I shall give you a true account of
what I have received in all, and how I have disposed of it."
After a few days' farther conference with this ancient
friend, he brought me an account of the six first years' income
of my plantation, signed by my partner and the merchant
trustees, being always delivered in goods, viz., tobacco in
roll', and sugar in chests, besides rum, molossus1, &c, which
is the consequence2 of a sugar work; and I found by this
account that every year the income considerably increased;
but, as above, the disbursement being large, the sum at first
was small: however, the old man let me see that he was
debtor to me 470 moidores of gold, besides 60 chests of
sugar, and 15 double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in
his ship, he having been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon,
about 11 years after my leaving the place.
The good man then began to complain of his misfortunes,
and how he had been obliged to make use of my money to
recover his losses, and buy him a share in a new ship.
"However, my old friend," says he, "you shall not want a
supply in your necessity; and as soon as my son returns,
you shall be fully satisfied."
Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me 160
Portugal moidores in gold; and giving me the writing of
his title to the ship, which his son was gone to the Brazils in,
of which he was a quarter part owner, and his son another,
he puts them both into my hands for security of the rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness
of the poor man to be able to bear this; and remembering
what he had done for me, how he had taken me up at sea,
and how generously he had used me on all occasions, and
particularly, how sincere a friend he was now to me, I could
hardly refrain weeping at what he said to me: therefore,
first, I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to spare
1 molossus: molasses.
*the consequence: the (subsidiary) result; what we should call "a by-product."
so much money at that time, and if it would not straiten
him. He told me he could not say but it might straiten
him a little; but, however, it was my money, and I might
want it more than he.
Everything the good man said was full of affection, and I
could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke: in short, I
took 100 of the moidores, and called for a pen and ink to
give him a receipt for them; then I returned him the rest,
and told him if ever I had possession of the plantation, I
would return the other to him also, as indeed, I afterwards
did; and that as to the bill of sale of his part in his son's
ship, I would not take it by any means; but that if I wanted
the money, I found he was honest enough to pay me; and
if I did not, but came to receive what he gave me reason
to expect, I would never have a penny more from him.
When this was passed, the old man began to ask me
if he should put me into a method to make my claim to my
plantation. I told him I thought to go over to it myself:
he said I might do so if I pleased; but that if I did not,
there were ways enough to secure my right, and immediately
to appropriate the profits to my use; and as there were ships
in the river of Lisbon just ready to go away to Brazil, he
made me enter my name in a public register, with his affidavit,
affirming upon oath that I was alive, and that I was the
same person who took up the land for the planting the said
plantation at first.
This being regularly attested by a notary, and a procura-
tion affixed, he directed me to send it, with a letter of his
writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at the place, and
then proposed my staying with him till an account came of
the return.
Never anything was more honorable than the proceed-
ings upon this procuration: for in less than seven months I
received a large packet from the survivors of my trustees,
the merchants, for whose account I went to sea, in which
were the following particular letters and papers enclosed.
First, there was the account current1 of the produce of
my farm or plantation, from the year when their fathers
had balanced with my old Portugal captain, being for six
years; the balance appeared to be 1174 moidores in my favor.
Secondly, there was the account of four years more,
while they kept the effects in their hands, before the govern-
ment claimed the administration, as being the effects of a
person not to be found, which they called civil death; and
the balance of this, the value of the plantation increasing,
amounted to [ ] crusadoes2, which made 3241
moidores3.
Thirdly, there was the prior of the Augustines' account,
who had received the profits for above fourteen years; but
not being to account for what was disposed to the hospital,
very honestly declared he had 872 moidores not distributed,
which he acknowledged to my account: as to the king's part,
that refunded nothing.
There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating me
very affectionately upon my being alive, giving me an
account how the estate was improved, and what it produced
a year, with a particular of the number of squares or acres,
that it contained; how planted, how many slaves there were
upon it; and making two and twenty crosses for blessings,
told me he had said so many Ave Marias to thank the
Blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me very passionately
to come over and take possession of my own; and, in the
mean time, to give him orders to whom he should deliver my
effects, if I did not come myself; concluding with a hearty
tender of his friendship, and that of his family; and sent me,
as a present, seven fine leopards' skins, which he had, it
seems, received from Africa by some other ship which he
1 account current: running account.
icrusado: A Portuguese coin which was formerly worth about 43 cents, and
now is worth about 52 cents. In the first, third, fourth, and sixth editions the
number of crusadoes is omitted; in some modern editions it is given as 38, 892.
zmoidore: A Portuguese coin which was worth about $6.60.
had sent thither, and who, it seems, had made a better
voyage than I: he sent me also five chests of excellent sweet-
meats, and an hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite
so large as moidores.
By the same fleet my two merchant trustees1 shipped me
1200 chests of sugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the
whole account in gold.
I might well say, now, indeed, that the latter end of Job2
was better than the beginning. It is impossible to express
the flutterings of my very heart when I looked over these
letters, and especially when I found all my wealth about
me; for, as the Brazil ships come all in fleets, the same
ships which brought my letters brought my goods; and the
effects were safe in the river before the letters came to my
hand. In a word, I turned pale, and grew sick; and had not
the old man run and fetched me a cordial, I believe the
sudden surprise of joy had overset nature, and I had died
upon the spot.
Nay, after that I continued very ill, and was so some
hours, till a physician being sent for, and something of the
real cause of my illness being known, he ordered me to be
let blood; after which I had relief, and grew well: but I
verily believe, if it had not been eased by a vent given in
that manner to the spirits3, I should have died.
I was now master, all on a sudden, of above £5000
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call it,
in the Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a year, as sure
as an estate of lands in England: and in a word, I was in a
condition which I scarce knew how to understand, or how
to compose myself for the enjoyment of it. The first thing
I did was to recompense my original benefactor, my good
old captain, who had been first charitable to me in my dis-
1 merchant trustees: More precisely, as he gives it on p. 367, "the survivors of
my trustees," i.e., their heirs.
3 the latter end of Job: Cf. Job xlii. 12.
'the spirits: the "animal spirits;" cf. note, p. 88.
tress, kind to me in my beginning, and honest to me at the
end: I shewed him all that was sent me; I told him that,
next to the providence of Heaven, which disposes all things,
it was owing to him; and that it now lay on me to reward
him, which I would do a hundredfold: so I first returned
to him the hundred moidores I had received of him; then I
sent for a notary, and caused him to draw up a general
release or discharge for the 470 moidores which he had
acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and firmest manner
possible; after which, I caused a procuration to be drawn,
empowering him to be my receiver of the annual profits of my
plantation, and appointing my partner to account to him and
make the returns by the usual fleets to him in my name; and a
clause in the end, being a grant of 100 moidores a year to him,
during his life, out of the effects, and 50 moidores a year to his
son after him, for his life; and thus I requited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence had
thus put into my hands; and, indeed, I had more care upon
my head now than I had in my silent state of life in the
island, where I wanted nothing but what I had, and had
nothing but what I wanted: whereas I had now a great
charge upon me, and my business was how to secure it. I
had ne'er a cave now to hide my money in, or a place where
it might lie without lock or key, till it grew mouldy and
tarnished before anybody would meddle with it: on the con-
trary, I knew not where to put it, or who to trust with it.
My old patron, the captain, indeed, was honest, and that
was the only refuge I had.
In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed to
summon me thither; but now I could not tell how to think
of going thither till I had settled my affairs, and left my
effects in some safe hands behind me. At first I thought of
my old friend, the widow, who I knew was honest, and
would be just to me; but then she was in years, and but
poor, and for aught I knew might be in debt; so that, in a
word, I had no way but to go back to England myself, and
take my effects with me.
It was some months, however, before I resolved upon
this; and therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain fully,
and to his satisfaction, who had been my former benefactor,
so I began to think of my poor widow, whose husband had
been my first benefactor, and she, while it was in her power,
my faithful steward and instructor. So the first thing I did, I
got a merchant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in Lon-
don, not only to pay a bill, but to go find her out, and carry
her in money an hundred pounds from me, and to talk with
her, and comfort her in her poverty, by telling her she should,
if I lived, have a further supply: at the same time I sent my
two sisters in the country each of them an hundred pounds,
they being, though not in want, yet not in very good circum-
stances; one having been married and left a widow, and the
other having a husband not so kind to her as he should be.
But among all my relations or acquaintances, I could not
yet pitch upon one to whom I durst commit the gross of
my stock, that I might go away to the Brazils, and leave
things safe behind me; and this greatly perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have
settled myself there, for I was, as it were, naturalized to
the place; but I had some little scruple in my mind about
.religion, which insensibly drew me back, of which I shall-say
more presently. However, it was not religion that kept me
from going there for the present; and as I had made no
scruple of being openly of the religion of the country1 all the
while I was among them, so neither did I yet; only that,
now and then, having of late thought more of it than for-
merly, when I began to think of living and dying among
them, I began to regret my having professed myself a Papist,
and thought it might not be the best religion to die with.
1the religion of the country: i.e., Roman Catholicism.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept
me from going to the Brazils, but that really I did not know
with whom to leave my effects behind me; so I resolved at
last to go to England with it, where, if I arrived, I con-
cluded I should make some acquaintance, or find some rela-
tions that would be faithful to me; and accordingly I pre-
pared to go for England with all my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I first,
the Brazil fleet being just going away, resolved to give
answers suitable to the just and faithful account of things
I had from thence; and first, to the prior of St. Augustine I
wrote a letter full of thanks for their just dealings, and the
offer of the 872 moidores which was indisposed of, which I
desired might be given, 500 to the monastery, and 372 to the
poor, as the prior should direct; desiring the good padre's
prayers for me, and the like.
I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees1, with
all the acknowledgment that so much justice and honesty
called for; as for sending them any present, they were far
above having any occasion of it.
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his indus-
try in the improving the plantation, and his integrity in
increasing the stock of the works, giving him instructions for
his future government of my part, according to the powers I
had left with my old patron, to whom I desired him to send
whatever became due to me, till he should hear from me
more particularly; assuring him that it was my intention, not
only to come to him, but to settle myself there for the remain-
der of my life. To this I added a very handsome present
of some Italian silks for his wife and two daughters, for
such the captain's son informed he had; with two pieces
of fine English broadcloth, the best I could get in Lisbon,
five pieces of black baize, and some Flanders lace of a good
value.
'trustees: Cf. note, p. 347.
Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned
all my effects into good bills of exchange, my next difficulty
was which way to go to England: I had been accustomed
enough to the sea, and yet I had a strange aversion to going
to England by sea at that time; and though I could give no
reason for it, yet the difficulty increased upon me so much,
that though I had once shipped my baggage in order to go, yet
I altered my mind, and that not once, but two or three times.
It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this
might be some of the reason: but let no man slight the strong
impulses of his own thoughts in cases of such moment: two of
the ships which I had singled out to go in, I mean, more par-
ticularly singled out than any other, that is to say, so as in one
of them to put my things on board, and in the other to have
agreed with the captain1; I say, two of these ships miscarried;
viz., one was taken by the Algerinest, and the other was cast
away on the Start, near Torbay2, and all the people drowned,
except three; so that in either of those vessels I had been
made miserable; and in which most, it was hard to say.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot,
to whom I communicated everything, pressed me earnestly
not to go by sea, but either to go by land to the Cjroyne3, and
cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it
was but an easy and safe journey by land to Paris, and so to
Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so all the way
by land through France.
In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going by
sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I resolved to
travel all the way by land; which, as I was not in haste, and
did not value the charge4, was by much the pleasanter way;
and to make it more so, my old captain brought an English
• agreed with the captain: i.e., made a bargain with him as to the charge for the
voyage.
'the Start, near Torbay: A headland and a small bay situated on the English
Channel.
8 the Groyne: A seaport in Northwestern Spain, now called Corunna.
* value the charge: mind the expense.
gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was will-
ing to travel with me: after which we picked up two more
English merchants also, and two young Portuguese gentle-
men, the last going to Paris only; so that we were in all six
of us, and five servants; the two merchants and the two
Portuguese contenting themselves with one servant between
two, to save the charge; and as for me, I got an English
sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides my man Friday,
who was too much a stranger to be capable of supplying the
place of a servant on the road.
In this manner I set out from Lisboni; and our com-
pany being all very well mounted and armed, we made a
little troop, whereof they did me the honor to call me captain,
as well because I was the oldest man, as because I had two
servants, and, indeed, was the original1 of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so
I shall trouble you now with none of my land journal; but
some adventures that happened to us in this tedious and
difficult journey I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to
Spain, were willing to stay some time to see the court of Spain,
and to see what was worth observing; but it being the latter
part of the summer, we hastened away, and set out from
Madrid about the middle of October: but when we came to
the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed, at several towns on
the way, with an account that so much snow was fallen on
the French side of the mountains, that several travellers
were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having
attempted at an extreme hazard to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so
indeed; and to me, that had been always used to a hot cli-
mate, and indeed to countries where we could scarce bear
any clothes on, the cold was insufferable; nor indeed was it
more painful than it was surprising, to come but ten days
'original: originator. Ci. Addison's hymn (1712): "The Spacious firmament
on High. . . . Their great Original proclaim."
before- out of the Old Castile, where the weather was not
only warm but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind
from the Pyrenean mountains so very keen, so severely cold,
as to be intolerable, and to endanger benumbing and perish-
ing of our fingers and toes.
Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the moun-
tains all covered with snow, and felt cold weather, which he
had never seen or felt before in his life.
To mend the matter, when we came to Pampeluna, it
continued snowing with so much violence, and so long, that
the people said winter was come before its time; and the
roads, which were difficult before, were now quite impas-
sable: for in a word, the snow lay in some places too thick
for us to travel, and being not hard frozen, as is the case in
northern countries, there was no going without being in
danger of being buried alive every step. We stayed no less
than twenty days at Pampeluna; when, seeing the winter
coming on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it was
the severest winter all over Europe that had been known in
the memory of man, I proposed that we should all go away
to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for Bordeaux, which
was a very little voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came in four
French gentlemen, who, having been stopped on the French
side of the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had found out
a guide, who, traversing the country near the head of Lan-
guedoc, had brought them over the mountains by such ways
that they were not much incommoded with the snow; and
where they met with snow in any quantity, they said it was
frozen hard enough to bear them and their horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertake
to carry us the same way with no hazard from the snow, pro-
vided we were armed sufficiently to protect ourselves from
wild beasts; for, he said, upon these great snows it was fre-
quent for some wolves to show themselves at the foot of the
mountains, being made ravenous for want of food, the-ground
being covered with snow: we told him we were well enough
prepared for such creatures as they were, if he would ensure
us from a kind of two-legged wolves, which, we were told,
we were in most danger from, especially on the French side
of the mountains.
He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind in the
way that we were to go; so we readily agreed to follow him,
as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some
French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go,
and were obliged to come back again.
Accordingly we all set out from Pampeluna with our
guide, on the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was sur-
prised, when, instead of going forward, he came directly back
with us on the same road that we came from Madrid, above
twenty miles; when, being passed two rivers, and come into
the plain country, we found ourselves in a warm climate
again, where the country was pleasant, and no snow to be
seen; but on a sudden, turning to his left, he approached the
mountains another way; and though it is true the hills and
precipices looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours, such
meanders, and led us by such winding ways, that we were
insensibly passed the height of the mountains without being
much*encumbered with the snow; and all on a sudden, he
shewed us the pleasant fruitful provinces of Languedoc and
Gascoign, all green and flourishing, though, indeed, it was at
a great distance, and we had some rough way to pass yet.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it
snowed one whole day and a night so fast that we could not
travel; but he bid us be easy; we should soon be past it all:
we found, indeed, that we began to descend every day, and
to come more north than before; and so, depending upon our
guide, we went on.
It was about two hours before night, when, our guide
being something before us, and not just in sight, out rushed
three monstrous wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hol-
low way adjoining to a thick wood; two of the wolyes flew
upon the guide, and had he been half a mile before us, he had
been devoured indeed, before we could have helped him: one
of them fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked the
man with that violence that he had not time or not presence
of mind enough to draw his pistol, but hollowed and cried
out to us most lustily; my man Friday being next me, I bid
him ride up, and see what was the matter: as soon as Friday
came in sight of the man, he hollowed as loud as t' other,
"O master! O master! " but like a bold fellow, rode directly
up to the poor man, and with his pistol shot the wolf that
attacked him, into the head.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Fri-
day; for he, having been used to that kind of creature in his
country, had no fear upon him, but went close up to him and
shot him, as above; whereas any of us would have fired at a
farther distance, and have perhaps either missed the wolf, or
endangered shooting the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than I;
and, indeed, it alarmed all our company, when, with the noise
of Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the dismallest howl-
ing of wolves, and the noise, redoubled by the echo of the
mountains, that it was to us as if there had been a prodigious
multitude of them; and perhaps, indeed, there was not such
a few as that we had no cause of apprehensions.
However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other, that
had fastened upon the horse, left him immediately and fled,
having happily fastened upon his head, where the bosses of
the bridle had stuck in his teeth, so that he had not done him
much hurt: the man, indeed, was most hurt; for the raging
creature had bit him twice, once on the arm, and the other
time a little above his knee; and he was just, as it were, tumb-
ling down by the disorder of his horse, when Friday came up
and shot the wolf.
It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol
we all mended our pace, and rid up as fast as the way, which
was very difficult, would give us leave, to see what was the
matter; rs soon as we came clear of the trees, which blinded
us before, we saw clearly what had been the case, and how
Friday had disengaged the poor guide, though we did not
presently discern what kind of creature it was he had killed.
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such a
surprising manner, as that which followed between Friday
and the bear, which gave us all, though at first we were sur-
prised and afraid for him, the greatest diversion imaginable.
As the bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, and does not gallop
as the wolf does, who is swift and light, so he has two par-
ticular qualities, which generally are the rule of his actions;
first, as to men, who are not his proper prey; I say, not his
proper prey, because though I cannot say what excessive hun-
ger might do, which was now their case, the ground being all
covered with snow; but as to men, he does not usually
attempt them, unless they first attack him: on the contrary,
if you meet him in the woods, if you don't meddle with him,
he won't meddle with you; but then you must take care to
be very civil to him, and give him the road, for he is a very
nice1 gentleman; he won't go a step out of his way for a
prince; nay, if you are really afraid, your best way is to look
another way and keep going on; for sometimes if you stop,
and stand still, and look steadily at him, he takes it for an
affront; but if you throw or toss anything at him, and it hits
him, though it were but a bit of a stick as big as your finger,
he takes it for an affront, and sets all his other business aside
to pursue his revenge; for he will have satisfaction in point
of honor; that is his first quality; the next is, that if he be
once affronted, he will never leave you, night or day, till he
has his revenge, but follows at a good round rate till he over-
takes you.
1 nice: fastidious.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we
came up to him, he was helping him off from his horse; for
the man was both hurt and frighted, and indeed the last more
than the first; when on the sudden we spied the bear come out
of the wood, and a vast monstrous one it was, the biggest by
far that ever I saw: we were all a little surprised when we
saw him; but when Friday saw him, it was easy to see joy
and courage in the fellow's countenance. "O! O! O!" says
Friday, three times, pointing to him; "O master! you give
me te leave! Me shakee te hand with him: me make you
good laugh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased. "You fool,
you," says I, "he will eat you up." "Eatee me up! eatee me
up!" says Friday, twice over again; "me eatee him up: me
make you good laugh: you all stay here, me show you good
laugh." So down he sits, and gets his boots off in a moment,
and put on a pair of pumps (as we call the flat shoes they wear,
and which he had in his pocket), gives my other servant his
horse, and with his gun away he flew, swift like the wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle
with nobody, till Friday coming pretty near, calls to him, as
if the bear could understand him: "Hark ye, hark ye," says
Friday, "me speakee wit you." We followed at a distance;
for now being come down on the Gascoign side of the moun-
tains, we were entered a vast great forest, where the country
was plain and pretty open, though many trees in it scattered
here and there.
Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of1 the bear, came
up with him quickly, and takes up a great stone, and throws
at him, and hit him just on the head, but did him no more
harm than if he had thrown it against a wall; but it answered
Friday's end, for the rogue was so void of fear that he did it
purely to make the bear follow him, and show us some laugh,
as he called it.
1had . . . the heels of: i.e., had the advantage of in speed, outran; cf. p. 363.
As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he turns
about, and comes after him, taking devilish long strides, and
shuffling along at a strange rate, so as would have put a horse
to a middling gallop; away runs Friday, and takes his course
as if he run towards us for help; so we all resolved to fire at
once upon the bear, and deliver my man; though I was angry
at him heartily for bringing the bear back upon us, when he
was going about his- own business another way; and especially
I was angry that he had turned the bear upon us, and then
run away; and I called out, "You dog!" said I, "is this your
making us laugh? Come away, and take your horse, that we
may shoot the creature." He hears me, and cries out, "No
shoot, no shoot; stand still, you get much laugh." And as
the nimble creature run two foot for the beast's one, he
turned on a sudden on one side of us, and seeing a great oak-
tree fit for his purpose, he beckoned to us to follow; and
doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up the tree, laying his gun
down upon the ground, at about five or six yards from the
bottom of the tree.
The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a
distance; the first thing he did, he stopped at the gun, smelt
to it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the tree, climbing
like a cat, though so monstrously heavy. I was amazed at
the folly, as I thought it, of my man, and could not for my
life see anything to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up
the tree, we all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out
to the small end of a large limb of the tree, and the bear
got about halfway to him; as soon as the bear got out to
that part where the limb of the tree was weaker, "Ha!"
says he to us, "now you see me teachee the bear dance;" so
he falls a-jumping and shaking the bough, at which the
bear began to totter, but stood still, and begun to look
behind him, to see how he should get back; then, indeed,
we did laugh heartily: but Friday had not done with him
by a great deal; when he sees him stand still, he calls out
to him again, as if he had supposed the bear could speak
English, "What, you no come farther? pray you come
farther;" so he left jumping and shaking the bough*; and the
bear, just as if he had understood what he said, did come a
little further; then he fell a-jumping again, and the bear
stopped again.
We thought now was a good time to knock him on the
head, and I called to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot
the bear; but he cried out earnestly, "O pray! O pray! no
shoot, me shoot by and then;" he would have said "by and
by": however, to shorten the story, Friday danced so much,
and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing enough
indeed, but still could not imagine what the fellow would
do; for first we thought he depended upon shaking the bear
off; and we found the bear was too cunning for that too;
for he would not go out far enough to be thrown down, but
clings fast with his great broad claws and feet, so that we
could not imagine what would be the end of it, and where
the jest would be at last.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for seeing the
bear cling fast to the bough, and that he would not be per-
suaded to come any farther, "Well, well," says Friday,
"you no come farther, me go, me go; you no come to me, me
go come* to you;" and upon this he goes out to the smallest
end of the bough, where it would bend with his weight, and
gently lets himself down by it, sliding down the bough till
he came near enough to jump down on his feet, and away
he run to his gun, takes it up, and stands still.
"Well," said I to him, "Friday, what will you do now?
Why don't you shoot him?" "No shoot," says Friday, "no
yet; me shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give you one more
laugh." And, indeed, so he did, as you will see presently;
for when the bear see his enemy gone, he comes back from
the bough where he stood, but did it mighty leisurely, look-
ing behind him every step, and coming backward till he
got into the body of the tree; then, with the same hinder
end foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it with
his claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leisurely;
at this juncture, and just before he could set his hind feet
upon the ground, Friday stept up close to him, clapt
the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him dead
as a stone.
Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh;
and when he saw we were pleased, by our looks, he falls
a-laughing himself very loud. "So we kill bear in my
country,"1 says Friday. "So you kill them?" says I; "why,
you have no guns." "No," says he, "no gun, but shoot great
much long arrow."
This was indeed a good diversion to us, but we were
still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt, and
what to do we hardly knew; the howling of wolves run
much in my head; and, indeed, except the noise I once heard
on the shore of Africa, of which I have said something
already, I never heard anything that filled me with so much
horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us off,
or else, as Friday would have had us, we should certainly
have taken the skin of this monstrous creature off, which
was worth saving; but we had-three leagues to go, and our
guide hastened us; so we left him, and went forward on our
journey.
The ground was still covered with snow, though not so
deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and the ravenous
creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come down into
the forest and plain country, pressed by hunger to seek for
food, and had done a great deal of mischief in the villages,
where they surprised the country people, killed a great many
of their sheep and horses, and some people too.
lSo we kill bear: It has been pointed out that in Friday's country there are
no bears.
We had one dangerous place to pass, which our guide
told us, if there were any more wolves in the country, we
should find them there; and this was in a small plain sur-
rounded with woods on every side, and a long narrow defile,
or lane, which we were to pass to get through the wood, and
then we should come to the village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of sunset when we entered
the first wood, and a little after sunset when we came into
the plain; we met with nothing in the first wood, except that
in a little plain within the wood, which1 was not above two
furlongs over, we saw five great wolves cross the road, full
speed, one after another, as if they had been in chase of
some prey, and had it in view; they took no notice of us,
and were gone and out of our sight in a few moments.
Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was a wretched
faint-hearted fellow, bid us keep in a ready posture, for he
believed there were more wolves a-coming.
We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us, but we
saw no more wolves till we came through that wood, which
was near half a league, and entered the plain; as soon as
we came into the plain, we had occasion enough to look
about us: the first object we met with was a dead horse;
that is to say, a poor horse which the wolves had killed, and
at least a dozen of them at work, we could not say eating of
him, but picking of his bones rather; for they had eaten up
all the flesh before.
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast,
neither did they take much notice of us: Friday would have
let fly at them, but I would not suffer him by any means;
for I found we were like to have more business upon our
hands than we were aware of. We were not gone half
over the plain, but we began to hear the wolves howl in
the wood on our left in a frightful manner, and presently
after, we saw about a hundred coming on directly towards
1 wood, which: The which refers to plain.
us, all in a body, and most of them in a line, as regularly
as an army drawn up by experienced officers. I scarce knew
in what manner to receive them, but found to draw our-
selves in a close line was the only way: so we formed in a
moment: but that we might not have too much interval, I
ordered that only every other man should fire, and that the
others, who had not fired, should stand ready to give them a
second volley immediately, if they continued to advance upon
us, and that then those who had fired at first should not
pretend to load their fusees again, but stand ready, with
every one a pistol, for we were all armed with a fusee and
a pair of pistols each man; so we were by this method able
to fire six volleys, half of us at a time: however, at present
we had no necessity; for upon firing the first volley, the
enemy made a full stop, being terrified as well with the
noise as with the fire; four of them being shot into the head,
dropped; several others were wounded, and went bleeding
off, as we could see by the snow: I found they stopped, but
did not immediately retreat; whereupon, remembering that I
had been told that the fiercest creatures were terrified at the
voice of a man, I caused all our company to hollow as loud
as we could; and I found the notion not altogether mistaken;
for upon our shout they began to retire and turn about; then
I ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear, which
put them to the gallop, and away they went to the woods.
This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again, and
that we might lose no time, we kept going; but we had but
little more than loaded our fusees, and put ourselves into a
readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in the same wood,
on our left, only that it was farther onward, the same way
we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be
dusky, which made it worse on our side; but the noise
increasing, we could easily perceive that it was the howling
and yelling of those hellish creatures; and, on a sudden, we
perceived 2 or 3 troops of wolves, one on our left, one
behind us, and one on our front; so that we seemed to be sur-
rounded with them; however, as they did not fall upon us,
we kept our way forward, as fast as we could make our
horses go, which, the way being very rough, was only a good
large trot; and in this manner we came in view of the
entrance of a wood, through which we were to pass, at the
farther side of the plain; but we were greatly surprised
when, coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused
number of wolves standing just at the entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard
the noise of a gun; and looking that way, out rushed a horse,
with a saddle and a bridle on him, flying like the wind, and
sixteen or seventeen wolves after him, full speed; indeed,
the horse had the heels of them; but as we supposed that he
could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but they
would get up with him at last, and no question but they did.
But here we had a most horrible sight; for riding up
to the entrance where the horse came out, we found the
carcass of another horse, and of two men, devoured by the
ravenous creatures, and one of the men was no doubt the
same who we heard fired the gun; for there lay a gun just
by him, fired off; but as to the man, his head and the upper
part of his body was eaten up.
This filled us with horror, and we knew not what
course to take, but the creatures resolved us soon; for they
gathered about us presently, in hopes of prey; and I verily
believe there were three hundred of them: it happened, very
much to our advantage, that, at the entrance into the wood,
but a little way from it, there lay some large timber trees,
which had been cut down the summer before, and I suppose
lay there for carriage1; I drew my little troop in among
those trees, and placing ourselves in a line behind one long
tree, I advised them all to light, and keeping that tree before
1 carriage: transportation.
us for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts,
enclosing our horses in the centre.
We did so, and it was well we did; for never was a
more furious charge than the creatures made upon us in the
place; they came on us with a growling kind of a noise, and
mounted the piece of timber, which, as I said, was our breast-
work, as if they were only rushing upon their prey; and this
fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by their
seeing our horses behind us, which was the prey they aimed
at: I ordered our men to fire as before, every other man;
and they took their aim so sure that indeed they killed several
of the wolves at the first volley; but there was a necessity
to keep a continual firing; for they came on like devils, those
behind pushing on those before.
When we had fired our second volley of our fusees, we
thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they would have
gone off; but it was but a moment, for others came forward
again; so we fired two volleys of our pistols, and I believe in
these four firings we had killed seventeen or eighteen of
them, and lamed twice as many; yet they came on again.
I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily; so I called
my servant, not my man Friday, for he was better employed,
for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable, he had charged
my fusee and his own while we were engaged; but as I said,
I called my other man, and giving him a horn of powder, I
bade him lay a train all along the piece of timber, and let it
be a large train; he did so, and had but just time to get away,
when the wolves came up to it, and some were got up upon
it, when I, snapping an uncharged pistol close to the powder,
set it on fire; those that were upon the timber were scorcht
with it, and six or seven of them fell, or rather jumped, in
among us with the force and fright of the fire: we despatched
these in an instant, and the rest were so frighted with the
light, which the night, for it was now very near dark, made
more terrible, that they drew back a little.
Upon which I ordered our last pistol* to be fired off in
one volley, and after that we gave a shout; upon this the
wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near
twenty lame ones who we found struggling on the ground,
and fell a-cutting them with our swords, which answered our
expectation; for the crying and howling they made was better
understood by their fellows, so that they all fled and left us.
We had, first and last, killed about threescore of them,
and had it been daylight, we had killed many more: the field
of battle being thus cleared, we made forward again, for we
had still near a league to go. We heard the ravenous crea-
tures howl and yell in the woods as we went, several times;
and sometimes we fancied we saw some of them, but the
snow dazzling our eyes, we were not certain; so in about an
hour more we came to the town where we were to lodge,
which we found in a terrible fright, and all in arms; for it
seems that, the night before, the wolves and some bears had
broke into the village in the nightt, and put them in a terrible
fright, and they were obliged to keep guard night and day,
but especially in the night, to preserve their cattle, and
indeed their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs
swelled with the rankling of his two wounds, that he could
go no farther; so we were obliged to take a new guide there,
and go to Toulouse, where we found a warm climate, a fruit-
ful pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves, or anything
like them; but when we told our story at Toulouse, they told
us it was nothing but what was ordinary in the great forest
at the foot of the mountains, especially when the snow lay
on the ground: but they inquired much what kind of a guide
we had gotten, that would venture to bring us that way in
such a severe season, and told us it was very much we were
not1 all devoured. When we told them how we placed
ourselves, and the horses in the middle, they blamed us
1 it was very much we were not: i.e., we came very near being.
.
exceedingly, and told us it was fifty to one but we had been
all destroyed; for it was the sight of the horses which made
the wolves so furious, seeing their prey; and that at other
times they are really afraid of a gun; but the* being excessive
hungry, and raging on that account, the eagerness to come
at the horses had made them senseless of danger; and that
if we had not by the continued fire, and at last by the strat-
egem of the train of powder, mastered them, it had been
great odds but that we had been torn to pieces; whereas, had
we been content to have sat still on horseback, and fired as
horsemen, they would not have taken the horses for so much
their own, when men were on their backs, as otherwise; and,
withal, they told us that at last, if we had stood all together*,
and left our horses, they would have been so eager to have
devoured them, that we might have come off safe, especially
having our firearms in our hands, and being so many in
number.
For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my life;
for seeing above three hundred devils come roaring and open-
mouthed to devour us, and having nothing to shelter us or
retreat to, I gave myself over for lost; and as it was, I believe
I shall never care to cross those mountains again; I think I
would much rather go a thousand leagues by sea, though I
were sure to meet with a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage
through France; nothing but what other travellers have given
an account of with much more advantage than I can. I trav-
elled from Toulouse to Paris, and without any considerable
stay came to Calais, and landed safe at Dover the 14th of
January, after having had a severely cold season to travel in.
I was now come to the center of my travels, and had in
a little time all my new discovered estate safe about me, the
bills of exchange which I brought with me having been very
currently paid1.
366 Robinson Crusoe
. . . readily"— N.E.D.
My principal guide and privy councillor was my good
ancient widow, who, in gratitude for the money I had sent
her, thought no pains too much or care too great to employ
for me; and I trusted her so entirely with everything, that I
was perfectly easy as to the security of my effects; and,
indeed, I was very happy from my beginning, and now to
the end, in the unspotted integrity of this good gentlewoman.
And now I began to think of leaving my effects with
this woman and setting out for Lisbon, and so to the Brazils;
but now another scruple came in my way, and that was
religion; for as I had entertained some doubts about the
Roman religion, even while I was abroad, especially in my
state of solitude, so I knew there was no going to the Brazils
for me, much less going to settle there, unless I resolved to
embrace the Roman Catholic religion without any reserve;
unless, on the other hand, I resolved to be a sacrifice to my
principles, be a martyr for religion, and die in the Inquisi-
tion; so I resolved to stay at home, and if I could find means
for it, to dispose of my plantation.
To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who
in return gave me" notice that he could easily dispose of it
there: but that if I thought fit to give him leave to offer it
in my name to the two merchants, the survivors of my trus-
tees, who lived in the Brazils, who must fully understand the
value of it, who lived just upon the spot, and who I knew
were very rich, so that he believed they would be fond of
buying it, he did not doubt but I should make 4 or 5,000
pieces of eight the more of it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him order to offer it to them,
and he did so; and in about 8 months more, the ship being
then returned, he sent me account that they had accepted the
offer, and had remitted 33,000 pieces of eight to a corre-
spondent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it.
In return I signed the instrument of sale in the form
which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man, who
sent me bills of exchange for 32,800t pieces of eight to me,
for the estate; reserving the payment of 100 moidores a year
to him, the old man, during his life, and 50 moidores after-
wards to his son for his life, which I had promised them,
which the plantation was to make good as a rent-charge1.
And thus I have given the first part of a life of fortune and
adventure, a life of Providence's chequer-work, and of a
variety which the world will seldom be able to show the like
of: beginning foolishly, but closing much more happily than
any part of it ever gave me leave so much as to hope for.
Any one would think that in this state of complicated
good fortune I was past running any more hazards; and so,
indeed, I had been, if other circumstances had concurred,
but I was inured to a wandering life, had no family, not
many relations, nor, however rich, had I contracted much
acquaintance; and though I had sold my estate in the Brazils,
yet I could not keep the country out of my head, and had a
great mind to be upon the wing again; especially I could
not resist the strong inclination I had to see my island, and
to know if the poor Spaniards were in being there, and how
the rogues I left there had used them.
My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me from
it, and so far prevailed with me, that for almost seven years
she prevented my running abroad, during which time I took
my two nephews, the children of one of my brothers, into my
care; the eldest, having something of his own, I bred up as
a gentleman, and gave him a settlement of some addition to
his estate after my decease; the other I put out to a captain
of a ship; and after five years, finding him a sensible, bold,
enterprising young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and
sent him to sea; and this young fellow afterwards drew me
in, as old as I was, to farther adventures myself.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here; for, first
of all, I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or
1 as a rent-charge: Apparently the land was to be sold with the encumbrance
of this "rent-charge" or annuity, which was to be paid out of its profits.
dissatisfaction, and had three children, two- sons and one
daughter: but my wife dying, and my nephew coming home
with good success from a voyage'to Spain, my inclination to
go abroad, and his importunity, prevailed, and engaged me
to go in his ship as a private trader to the East Indies: this
was in the year 16941.
In this voyage2 I visited my new colony in the island, saw
my successors, the Spaniards, had the whole story of their
lives, and of the villains I left there; how at first they
insulted the poor Spaniards, how they afterwards agreed,
disagreed, united, separated, and how at last the Spaniards
were obliged to use violence with them, how they were sub-
jected to the Spaniards, how honestly the Spaniards used
them; a history, if it were entered into, as full of variety and
wonderful accidents as my own part; particularly, also, as
to their battles with the Caribbeans, who landed several
times upon the island, and as to the improvement they made
upon the island itself, and how five of them made an
attempt upon the mainland, and brought away eleven men
and five women prisoners, by which, at my coming, I found
about twenty young children on the island.
Here I stayed about twenty days, left them supplies of
all necessary things, and particularly of arms, powder, shot,
clothes, tools, and two workmen, which I brought from
England with me, viz., a carpenter and a smith.
Besides this, I shared the island into parts with 'em,
reserved to myself the property of the whole, but gave them
such parts respectively as they agreed on; and having settled
all things with them, and engaged them not to leave the
place, I left them there.
From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence I
sent a bark, which I bought there, with more people to the
11694: In the Farther Adventures the date is given as 1693.
* In this voyage, etc.: These concluding paragraphs give a partial idea of the
contents of the second volume. They do not include, however, Crusoe's voyage
from his island to the East Indies and his journey home by land across China,
Siberia, and RussialThese matters were, perhaps, added later to his scheme because
the events on the island were not enough to make a book of.
island; and in it, besides other supplies, I sent seven women,
being such as I found proper for service, or for wives to
such as would take them:" as to the Englishmen, I promised
them to send them some women from England, with a good
cargo of necessaries, if they would apply themselves to plant-
ing; which I afterwards performed. And the fellows
proved very honest and diligent after they were mastered and
had their properties set apart for them. I sent them also
from the Brazils five cows, three of them being big with
calf, some sheep, and some hogs, which, when I came again,
were considerably increased.
But all these things, with an account how 300 Caribbees
came and invaded them, and ruined their plantations, and
how they fought with that whole number twice, and were
at first defeated, and three of them killed; but at last, a
storm destroying their enemies' canoes, they famished or
destroyed almost all the rest, and renewed and recovered the
possession of their plantation, and still lived upon the island.
All these things, with some very surprising incidents in
some new adventures of my own, for ten years more, I may
perhaps give a farther account of hereafter.
FINIS
APPENDIX
Captain Woodes Rogers's Account of the Rescue
of Alexander Selkirk1
At seven this morning [Jan. 31, 1709] we made the island of Juan
Fernandez. ... In the afternoon we hoisted our pinnace out; Cap-
tain Dover, with the boat's crew, went in her to go ashore, though we
could not be less than four leagues off. As soon as the pinnace was
gone, I went on board the "Dutchess," who admired2 our boat attempt-
ing going ashore at that distance from land. 'Twas against my
inclination, but to oblige Captain Dover I consented to let her go. As
soon as it was dark we saw a light ashore. Our boat was then about
a league from the island, and bore away for the ships as soon as she
saw the lights. We put our lights abroad for the boat, though some
were of opinion the lights we saw were our boat's lights; but
as night came on, it appeared too large for that. We fired our
quarter-deck gun and several muskets, showing lights in our mizeh
and fore shrouds, that our boat might find us whilst we plied in the
lee of the island. About two in the morning our boat came on
board, having been two hours on board the "Dutchess," that took them
up astern of us; we were glad they got well off, because it began to
blow. We are all convinced the light is on the shore, and design to
make our ships ready to engage, believing them to be French ships
at anchor; and we must either fight them or want3 water. We stood
on the back side along the south end of the island, in order to lay in
with the first southerly wind, which Captain Dampier told us gener-
ally blows there all day long. In the morning, being past the island,
we tacked to lay it in close aboard the land, and about ten o'clock
opened4 the south end of the island, and ran close aboard the land
that begins to make the north-east side.
The flaws came heavy off the shore, and we were forced to reef
our topsails when we opened the middle bay, where we expected to
find our enemy, but saw all clear, and no ships in that nor the
other bay next the north-west end. These two bays are all that ships
1 From "A Cruising Voyage Round the World," second edition (1718), pp.
123-130. This text is reproduced from Aitken's Romances and Narratives by
Daniel Defoe, III. 317-324.
2 admired: wondered at.
zwant: be without.
* opened: came in sight of.
371
ride in which recruit on this island; but the middle bay is by much
the best. We guessed there had been ships there, but that they were
gone on sight of us. We sent our yawl ashore about noon, with
Captain Dover, Mr. Fry, and six men, all armed. Meanwhile we
and the "Dutchess" kept turning to get in, and such heavy flaws
came off the land, that we were forced to let go our topsail sheet,
keeping all hands to stand by our sails, for fear of the wind's carry-
ing them away; but when the flaws were gone we had little or no
wind. These flaws proceeded from the land, which is very high
in the middle of the island. Our boat did not return; so we sent
our pinnace, with the men armed, to see what was the occasion
of the yawl's stay, for we were afraid that the Spaniards had a
garrison there, and might have seized them. We put out a signal
for our boat, and the "Dutchess" showed a French ensign. Imme-
diately our pinnace returned from the shore, and brought abundance
of cray-fish, with a man clothed in goat's skins, who looked wilder
than the first owners of them. He had been on the island four years
and four months, being left there by Captain Stradling in the
"Cinque Ports;" his name was Alexander Selkirk, a Scotchman, who
had been master of the "Cinque Ports," a ship that came here last
with Captain Dampier, who told me that this was the best man in
her; so I immediately agreed with him to be a mate on board our
ship. 'Twas he that made the fire last night when he saw our
ships, which he judged to be English. During his stay here he saw
several ships pass by, but only two came to anchor. As he went to
view them, he found them to be Spaniards, and retired from them,
upon which they shot at him. Had they been French, he would
have submitted, but chose to risk his dying alone on the island rather
than fall into the hands of the Spaniards in these parts; because
he apprehended they would murder him, or make a slave of him
in the mines, for he feared they would spare no stranger that
might be capable of discovering1 the South Seas.
The Spaniards had landed before he knew what they were, and
they came so near him that he had much ado to escape; for they not
only shot at him, but pursued him to the woods, where he climbed
to the top of a tree; . . . they . . . killed several goats just
by, but went off without discovering him. He told us that he was
born at Largo, in the county of Fife, in Scotland, and was bred a
sailor from his youth. The reason of his being left here was a dif-
ference betwixt him and his captain; which, together with the ship's
being leaky, made him willing rather to stay here than go along with
him at first; and when he was at last willing, the captain would not
1 discovering: giving information to the world in regard to.
receive him. He had been in the island before to wood and water1,
when two of the ship's company were left upon it for six months
till the ship returned, being chased thence by two French South
Sea ships.
He had with him his clothes and bedding, with a firelock, some
powder, bullets, and tobacco, a hatchet, a knife, a kettle, a Bible,
some practical pieces,2 and his mathematical instruments and books.
He diverted and provided for himself as well as he could, but for
the first eight months had much ado to bear up against melancholy,
and the terror of being left alone in such a desolate place. He
built two huts with pimento trees, covered them with long grass,
and lined them with the skins of goats, which he killed with his
gun as he wanted, so long as his powder lasted, which was but a
pound; and that being almost spent, he got fire by rubbing two sticks
of pimento wood together upon his knee. In the lesser hut, at some
distance from the other, he dressed his victuals; and in the larger he
slept and employed himself in reading, singing psalms, and praying;
so that he said he was a better Christian while in this solitude than
ever he was before, or than, he was afraid, he should ever be again.
At first he never ate anything till hunger constrained him, partly
for grief, and partly for want of bread and salt. Nor did he go to
bed till he could watch3 no longer; the pimento wood, which burnt
very clear, served him both for firing and candle, and refreshed him
with its fragrant smell. He might have had fish enough, but could
not eat them for want of salt . . . except crayfish, which are there
as large as lobsters, and very good. These he sometimes boiled, and
at other times broiled, as he did his goats' flesh, of which he made
very good broth, for they are not so rank as ours. He kept an
account of 500 that he killed while there, and caught as many more,
which he marked on the ear, and let go. When his powder failed,
he took them by speed of feet; for his way of living and continual
exercise of walking and running cleared him of all gross humours;4
so that he ran with wonderful swiftness through the woods, and up
the rocks and hills, as we perceived when we employed him to
catch goats for us. We had a bull-dog, which we sent, with sev-
eral of our nimblest runners, to help him in catching goats; but
he distanced and tired both the dog and the men, catched the goats,
and brought them to us on his back.
i wood and water: "Wood"and "water" are verbs.
2 practical pieces: useful articles.
3 watch: stay up, keep vigil.
* gross humours: In old medical terminology the word "humour" was applied
to diseased fluids in the body, or to eruptions resulting from them. Gross means
"coarse, disagreeable, unsightly."
He told us that his agility in pursuing a goat had once like to
have cost him his life: he pursued it with so much eagerness that
he catched hold of it on the brink of a precipice, of which he was
not aware, the bushes hiding it from him; so that he fell with the
goat down the said precipice, a great height, and was so stunned
and bruised with the fall that he narrowly escaped with his life;
and when he came to his senses, found the goat dead under him.
He lay there about twenty-four hours, and was scarce able to crawl
to his hut, which was about a mile distant, or to stir abroad again
for ten days.
He came at last to relish his meat well enough without salt or
bread; and in the season had plenty of good turnips, which had
been sowed there by Captain Dampier's men, and have now over-
spread some acres of ground. He had enough of good cabbage
from the cabbage trees,1 and seasoned his meat with the fruit of the
pimento trees, which is the same as Jamaica pepper, and smells
deliciously. He found also a black pepper called malageta, which
was very good . . .
He soon wore out all his shoes and clothes by running through
the woods; and at last, being forced to shift without them, his feet
became so hard that he ran everywhere without difficulty, and it
was some time before he could wear shoes after we found him; for,
not being used to any so long, his feet swelled when he came first
to wear them again.
After he had conquered his melancholy, he diverted himself
sometimes by cutting his name on the trees, and the time of his
being left, and continuance there. He was at first much pestered
with cats and rats, that bred in great numbers from some of each
species which had got ashore from ships that put in there to wood
and water. The rats gnawed his feet and clothes whilst asleep,
which obliged him to cherish the cats with his goats' flesh, by which
many of them became so tame, that they would lie about him in
hundreds and soon delivered him from the rats. He likewise
tamed some kids, and to divert himself would, now and then, sing
and dance with them and his cats; so that, by the care of Provi-
dence, and vigour of his youth, being now about thirty years old,
he came at last to conquer all the inconveniences of his solitude,
and to be very easy.
When his clothes wore out, he made himself a coat and a cap of
goat's skins, which he stitched together with little thongs of the
same, that he cut with his knife. He had no other needle but a
• cabbage trees: A kind of palm having a terminal bud like a cabbage, as does the
American palmetto.
nail; and when his knife was wore to the back, he made others, as
well as he could, of some iron hoops that were left ashore, which he
beat thin and ground upon stones. Having some linen cloth by
him, he sewed himself shirts with a nail, and stitched them with
the worsted of his old stockings, which he pulled out on purpose.
He had his last shirt on when we found him on the island.
At his first coming on board us, he had so much forgot his
language, for want of use, that we could scarce understand him, for
he seemed to speak his words by halves. We offered him a dram,
but he would not touch it, having drank nothing but water since his
being there; and 'twas some time before he could relish our victuals.
He could give us an account of no other product of the island
than what we have mentioned, except small black plums, which
are very good, but hard to come at, the trees which bear them growing
on high mountains and rocks. Pimento trees are plenty here, and
we saw some of sixty feet high, and about two yards thick, and
cotton trees higher, and more than four fathom round in the stock.
The climate is so good that the trees and grass are verdant all
the year. The winter lasts no longer than June and July, and is
not then severe, there being only a small frost and a little hail, but
sometimes great rains. The heat of the summer is equally moderate,
and there's not much thunder or tempestuous weather of any sort.
We saw no venomous or savage creature on the island, nor any
other sort of beast, but goats, &c, as above mentioned, the first of
which had been put ashore here on purpose for a breed by Juan
Fernandez, a Spaniard, who settled there with some families for a
time, till the continent of Chile began to submit to the Spaniards;
which, being more profitable, tempted them to quit this island, which
is capable of maintaining a good number of people, and of being
made so strong that they could not be easily dislodged.
Rengrose, in his account of Captain Sharpe's voyage, and other
buccaneers, mentions one who had escaped ashore here, out of a
ship which was cast away with all the rest of the company, and
says he lived five years alone, before he had the opportunity of
another ship to carry him off. Captain Dampier talks of a Mos-
quito Indian that belonged to Captain Watlin, who, being a-hunting
in the woods when the captain left the island, lived there three years
alone, and shifted much in the same manner as Mr. Selkirk did, till
Captain Dampier came hither in 1684 and carried him off. The first
that went ashore was one of his countrymen, and they saluted one
another, first, by prostrating themselves by turns on the ground, and
then embracing. But whatever there is in these stories, this of
Mr. Selkirk I know to be true; and his behaviour afterwards gives
me reason to believe the account he gave me how he spent his time,
and bore up under such an affliction, in which nothing but the Divine
Providence could have supported any man.
II.
Steele's Account of Selkirk1
[The Englishman, December 1-3, 1713.]
Under the title of this paper, I do not think it foreign to my
design to speak of a man born in her Majesty's dominions, and
relate an adventure in his life so uncommon, that it is doubtful
whether the like has happened to any other of the human race. The
person I speak of is Alexander Selkirk, whose name is familiar to
men of curiosity,2 from the fame of his "having lived four years and
four months alone in the island of Juan Fernandez. I had the
pleasure, frequently, to converse with the man soon after his arrival
in England in the year 1711. It was matter of great curiosity to
hear him, as he is a man of good sense, give an account of the dif-
ferent revolutions in his own mind in that long solitude. When
we consider how painful absence from company, for the space of
but one evening, is to the generality of mankind, we may have a
sense how painful this necessary and constant solitude was to a man
bred a sailor, and ever accustomed to enjoy and suffer, eat, drink,
and sleep, and perform all offices of life,3 in fellowship and com-
pany. He was put ashore from a leaky vessel, with the captain of
which he had had an irreconcilable difference; and he chose rather
to take his fate in this place than in a crazy vessel, under a disagree-
able commander. His portion was a sea-chest, his wearing clothes
and bedding, a firelock, a pound of gunpowder, a large quantity of
bullets, a flint and steel, a few pounds of tobacco, a hatchet, a
knife, a kettle, a Bible, and other books of devotion; together with
pieces that concerned navigation, and his mathematical instruments.
Resentment against his officer, who had ill-used him, made him look
forward on this change of life as the more eligible one, till the
instant in which he saw the vessel put off; at which moment his
heart yearned within him, and melted at the parting with his
comrades and all human society at once. He had in provisions for
the sustenance of life but the quantity of two meals, the island
abounding only with wild goats, cats, and rats. He judged it most
1From Steele's periodical, The Englishman, Dec. 1-3, 1713. This text is
reprinted from Aitken's Romances and Narratives by Daniel Defoe, III. 324-328.
a men of curiosity: men who have a special interest in such things, connoisseurs.
8 offices of life: functions or duties of life.
probable that he should find more immediate and easy relief by
finding shell-fish on the shore than seeking game with his gun. He
accordingly found great quantities of turtles, whose flesh is extremely
delicious, and of which he frequently ate very plentifully on his
first arrival, till it grew disagreeable to his stomach, except in jel-
lies. The necessities of hunger and thirst were his greatest diver-
sion from the reflections on his lonely condition. When those appe-
tites were satisfied, the desire of society was as strong a call upon him,
and he appeared to himself least necessitous when he wanted every-
thing;1 for the supports of his body were easily attained, but the
eager longings for seeing again the face of man, during the interval
of craving bodily appetites, were hardly supportable. He grew
dejected, languid, and melancholy, scarce able to refrain from doing
himself violence, till by degrees, by the force of reason and frequent
reading the Scriptures, and turning his thoughts upon the study of
navigation, after the space of eighteen months he grew thoroughly
reconciled to his condition. When he had made this conquest, the
vigour of his health, disengagement from the world, a constant
cheerful, serene sky and a temperate air, made his life one continual
feast, and his being much more joyful than it had before been irk-
some. He now, taking delight in everything, made the hut in which
he lay, by ornaments which he cut down from a spacious wood on
the side of which it was situated, the most delicious bower, fanned
with continual breezes and gentle aspirations of wind, that made his
repose after the chase equal to the most sensual pleasures.
I forgot to observe, that during the time of his dissatisfaction mon-
sters of the deep, which frequently lay on the shore, added to the ter-
rors of his solitude; the dreadful howlings and voices seemed too
terrible to be made for human ears; but upon the recovery of his
temper he could with pleasure not only hear their voices, but
approach the monsters themselves with great intrepidity. He
speaks of sea-lions, whose jaws and tails were capable of seizing
or breaking the limbs of a man if he approached them. But at
that time his spirits and life were so high, that he could act so regu-
larly and unconcerned, that merely from being unruffled in himself
he killed them with the greatest ease imaginable; for observing that
though their jaws and tails were so terrible, yet the animals being
mighty slow in working themselves round, he had nothing to do but
place himself exactly opposite to their middle, and as close to them
as possible, and he despatched them with his hatchet at will.
The precautions which he took against want, in case of sickness,
was to lame kids when very young, so as that they might recover
1 least necessitous . . . everything: least in need when he lacked even food.
their health, but never be capable of speed. These he had in great
numbers about his hut; and as he was himself in full vigour, he
could take at full speed the swiftest goat running on a promontory,
and never failed of catching them, but1 on a descent.
His habitation was extremely pestered with rats, which gnawed
his clothes and feet when sleeping. To defend himself against them
he fed and tamed numbers of young kitlings, who lay about his bed
and preserved him from the enemy. When his clothes were quite
worn out he dried and tacked together the skins of goats, with which
he clothed himself, and was inured to pass through woods, bushes,
and brambles with as much carelessness and precipitance as any
other animal. It happened once to him that running on the summit
of a hill he made a stretch to seize a goat, with which under him
he fell down a precipice and lay senseless for the space of three days,
the length of which he measured by the moon's growth since his
last observation. This manner of life grew so exquisitely pleasant,
that he never had a moment heavy upon his hands; his nights were
untroubled and his days joyous, from the practice of temperance and
exercise. It was his manner to use stated hours and places for exer-
cises of devotion, which he performed aloud, in order to keep up the
faculties of speech, and to utter himself2 with greater energy.
When I first saw him I thought if I had not been let into his
character and story I could have discerned that he had been much
separated from company from his aspect and gesture; there was a
strong but cheerful seriousness in his look, and a certain disregard
to the ordinary things about him, as if he had been sunk in thought.
When the ship which brought him off the island came in, he
received them with the greatest indifference with relation to the
prospect of going off with them, but with great satisfaction in an
opportunity to refresh and help them. The man frequently bewailed
his return to the world, which could not, he said, with all its enjoy-
ments, restore him to the tranquility of his solitude. Though I had
frequently conversed with him, after a few months' absence he met
me in the street, and though he spoke to me, I could not recollect
that I had seen him; familiar discourse in this town had taken off
the loneliness of his aspect, and quite altered the air of his face.
This plain man's story is a memorable example that he is happiest
who confines his want to natural necessities; and he that goes further
in his desires, increases his want in proportion to his acquisitions; or,
to use his own expression, "I am now worth eight hundred pounds,
but shall never be so happy as when I was not worth a farthing."
1 but: except.
* utter himself: express himself.
III.
Chronology of the Life of Robinson Crusoe
The following chronology has been prepared mainly because it
will be of assistance in comparing the lives of Defoe and Crusoe in
order to test the theory that Robinson Crusoe is a literal allegory of
Defoe's own life. According to Defoe's statement every detail in
Crusoe stands for a detail in the life of the real person, who is by
implication himself. Mr. Wright says that there is twenty-seven
years' difference between the dates of birth of Defoe and Crusoe
[if Defoe was born in 1659], and that by adding 27 to the date of
an event in Crusoe's life we should find the year in which the real
event in Defoe's life occurred. But it is clear that even if we figure,
as Wright does, that Crusoe's shipwreck was in 1658 instead of
1659, there are no significant correspondences. Moreover, a chro-
nological arrangement of Crusoe's life reveals discrepancies in
Defoe's counting of time; cf. notes.
In the chronology, dates enclosed in brackets are not found in
the text, but are worked out from Defoe's running indications of
time.
1632 Sept. 30. Born, at York.
[1650] Eighteen years old; wants to go to sea, but stays
at home "almost a year."
1651 Sept. 1. Takes ship at Hull for London.
Sept. 19. (Date supplied from p. 182; statements at this
point indicate the 16th.) Shipwrecked; goes to
London.
[1652-53] Two voyages to Guinea, on the second of which
he is captured by the Moors, on Sept. 1 [1653 (?)]
(cf. p. 182).
[1655] Sept. 19. Escapes from slavery; after three or four weeks
is picked up, and in twenty-two days reaches
Brazil. Four years a planter there.
1659 Sept. 1. Sails for slaves from Africa.
Sept. 30. Shipwrecked on the island; his birthday.
1659-61 Events recorded in Crusoe's journal; cf. pp. 113 ff.
[1661] Sept. 30. Kept the anniversary of the shipwreck in the same
manner as before.
[1662-63] Raises grain, makes earthenware vessels, and
builds a canoe, thus ending four years.
380
Robinson Crusoe
[1663] Sept. 30. Kept the anniversary with the same devotion.
Ink gives out; makes clothing of skins. Quiet life
for five years. Makes a periagua.
[1664] Nov. 6. ("the sixth year of ray captivity"). Starts on a
voyage round the island and is almost lost.
[1669-70] ("the eleventh year"). Traps goats, encloses
pastures, gathers a family of animals. Estab-
lishes two abodes.
[1673-74] Finds the footprint; indulges in "cogitations,
apprehensions, and reflections" for "weeks and
months." Finally reflects that he has "lived here
fifteen years" [on Sept. 30, 1674], without seeing
[1675-76] any person. Strengthens fortifications, etc., which
works are finished at the end of two years from
the discovery of the footprint. . Finds remains of
a cannibal feast and comforts himself with the
[1677 (summer)] thought of having been here "almost eighteen
[1679 (spring or years" without seeing them. Yet keeps close "for
summer)] almost two years after this."
[1681] ("December ... in my twenty-third year").
Two canoes of savages come to the island.
[1683] May 16. Spanish ship wrecked; gets salvage. Lives com-
[1684-85] fortably "near two years more."
[1683] March. ("March, the four and twentieth year"). Dreams
of savages; waits over a year and a half; then
[1684 (fall)] five canoes come and he saves Friday. They live
together three years (apparently alone).
[1685 Oct. 16-30] ("entered on the seven and twentieth year"; "the
settled season began to come in"). Savages come
again and the Spaniard and Friday's father are
rescued. About a year is spent in increasing the
store of provisions.
[1686 October] ("twenty seven years and some days"). The
Spaniard and Friday's father go to the rescue of
the shipwrecked Spaniards. "No less than eight
days" later the English ship whose crew has
mutinied comes to the island. The following
action covers five days. 1st day: Two boatloads
of mutineers come ashore and are surprised. 2d
day: Conferences; planning; midnight attack on
the ship. -3d day: Ship taken at 2 a. in.; Crusoe
packs up his goods. 4th day: Crusoe goes on
board; ship does not sail that night. 5th day:
1686 Dec. 19. Crusoe leaves the island "the 19th of December
. . . 1686, after I had been upon it eight and
twenty years, two months, and 19 days."
1687 June 11. Reaches England, "having been thirty and five
years abcent."
[1688] Most of the year spent in Lisbon, from which
place he returns to England the following winter,
having a narrow escape from death on the way.
Married; has three children; wife dies.
1694 Makes a second trip to America and a voyage
around the world.
A PARTIAL LIST OF VARIANT READINGS
The first, third, fourth, and sixth editions are respectively indi-
cated hy the numerals 1, 3, 4, and 6. It is to be assumed that if an
edition is not listed here in connection with a variant, it has the
same reading as that which stands in the text. When all four are
listed here, the reading of the text is an emendation.
46,1.12. first. ..1651; 1. first
.. .1661, corrected in Errata.
46,1. 16. sea: 1. 6. winds.
49,1.18. bitter: 1. 3. 4. 6. bet-
ter.
49,1.21.
52,1. 30.
stand.
58,1.21.
60,1. 1
to: 3. 4. 6. in.
strand: 1. shore; 4.
it: 6. /.
thev: 1. 6. vie.
60,1.13. drink: 1. drink in.
60,1.28. patron: 1 (here and
below), patroon, which possi-
bly indicates a pronunciation
-obn.
p. 64, I. 10. nation: 1. nations.
p. 65,1. 3. 1. 3. 4. print a com-
ma after monstrous.
p. 65,1. 9. Defoe here, as he
does regularly, writes the pos-
sessive plural without the
apostrophe.
p. 66,1. 29. and . . . remember:
3. 4. 6. and not exactly know,
or at least to remember.
p. 69,1. 9. into: 6. in to.
p. 69,1. 14. seek for: 1. seek out
for.
p. 71,1.13. flung: 3. 4. slung.
p. 72,1.25. dilemma: 1. 3. 4.
dilemna.
p. 75,1. 12. Brazils: 1. 3. 4. Bra-
zilo; 6. Brazilio.
p. 78,1. 9. fortune: 1. fortunes.
p. 79,1. 30. Brazils: cf. above, p.
75, 1. 12.
p. 82, 1. 7. the 1st.... 1659; 1.
the...th of... .
83,1. 32.
85,1.28.
95,1. 8.
the.
95,1.12.
of.
98,1.25.
98,1.33.
Guiana: 1. -Guinea.
slung: 6. flung.
the highest: 1. omits
of water: 1. omits
were: 4. was.
the: 6. and the.
108,1. 4. all: 3. 4. 6. at all.
110,1. 10. not: 3. 4. 6. no.
116,1.26. Sunday: 3. 4. 6.
add according to my reckon-
ing.
Three: 1. Two.
bringing: 3. 4. 6.-of
knew: 1. 3. know.
have: 4. ha'.
soon.. .little: omit-
117,1. 13.
118,1. 19.
bringing.
122, 1. 30.
125,1. 30.
125,1. 34.
ted in 4. 6.
127,1. 8. apprehensions: 3. 4.
6. apprehension.
130,1. 2. almost: 3. 4. 6. but
almost.
139,1. 1. rise: 3. 6. rose.
142,1. 6. to me? and...it?:
1. 4. to me, and what notice I
had taken of it:; 3. to me, and
what notice had I taken of iff
144,1. 15. about: 3. almost; 4.
6. above.
155,1.25.
159,1.13.
almost.
160,1.18. prisoner: 1. period
after prisoner.
165,1.31. to: 4. 6. to be.
170,1. 23. searse: 1. search.
knew: 1. know.
almost: 3. 4. 6. was
382
Variant Readings
383
170,1.28. searse: 1. 6. search.
172,1.27. 3. 4. period after
country.
181,1. 6. mercy: 6. mercies.
188, 1. 21. paddlers: 4. 6. pad-
dles.
193,1.32. make: 3. 4. made;
6. have made.
-200,1.22. nineteen: 3. 4. 6.
nine.or ten.
221,1. 12. where: 1. were.
223, 1. 21. that as: 6. omits as.
223,1.23. therefore: 1. 3. 6.
and therefore.
223, 1. 26. and where: 6. omits
and.
227,1. 2. should: 6. would.
231,1.12. the rock: 1. omits
the.
232,1.11. are: 3. 4. 6. -were.
.239,1.12. south: 3. 6. south-
east.
243,1.23. sat: 6. set.
250,1.25. of the: 1. omits of.
253,1. 12. whether: 6. whither
[twice].
-257,1.10. fetches: 3. 4. 6.
fetch'd.
260,1. 6. strong: 3. 6. long.
266,1.19. pointed: 3. 4. 6.
pointing.
269, I. 18. come: 6. came.
. 270, 1. 25. found : 3. 6. thought.
271,1.23. had: 1. 3. 4. has.
272,1. 2. do say: 3.4. 6. said.
.273,1.11. his: 3. 4. 6. their.
.273,1.28. nature: 3. 4. 6.
aversion.
.277,1.10. questionings: 3. 4.
6. questions.
281,1.10. he...his: 3. 4. 6.
/. . .my.
282,1.16. water: 6. the water.
286,1.32. fleet: 3. 4. 6. float.
290, 1. 21. white bearded: 1. 3.
4. 6. white-bearded.
301,1.31. first the: 1. 4. the
first.
p. 313,1.19. application: 1. ap-
plications.
p. 322, 1. 1. know: 3. 4. 6. know,
there.
p. 325,1. 12. sincere: 3. 4. 6. sin-
cerely.
p. 326,1. 12. given: 3. 4. 6. give.
p. 326,1.12. given: 3, 4, 6, give.
p. 327,1. 7. they: 1. 4. we. .. .
p. 328, 1.15. comma after
"them": 1. 4. semicolon; 3.
colon.
p. 328,1.22. commander: 3. 6.
commander's.
p. 329,1. 18. secure: 4. security;
6. to be secure.
p. 330,1.23. five of them: 3. 4.
6. those five [a mistaken fol-
lowing of erratum noted in 1.
See next note].
p. 330,1. 25. those five: 1. five of
them [changed in Errata to
those five],
p. 331,1. 1. Our strength, etc.:
Cf. note, p. 331 of text, for
textual variants.
p. 332, 1. 29. In 1 a comma fol-
lows muskets.
p. 339,1.23. my parrot: 3. 6. one
of my parrots.
p. 341,1.11. all together: 1. al-
together.
p. 342, 1.18. proviedore: 3. 4.
provedidore; 6. provedore.
p. 351,1.16. Algerines: l.Alger-
ine.
p. 359,1. 4. bough: 1. trees.
p. 359, I. 25. go come: 4. 6. come.
p. 365, 1. 1. pistol: 4. 6. pistols.
p. 365, 1. 18. village in . . . night:
3. 4. 6. omit in.. .night.
p. 366, 1. 4. the: 4. 6. they.
p. 366,1. 13. all together: 1. 3. 6.
altogether.
p. 368, 1. 1. 32,800: 1. 4. 6.
p. 368, 1. 1. 32,800: 1. 4. 6.
828000; 3. 3,288,000. -
3
This book should be returned to
the Library on or before the last date
stamped below.
A fine of five cents a day is incurred
by retaining it beyond the specified
time.
Please return promptly.
uul aPi^iJiL
