ROBINSON'S MATHEMATICAL SERIES.
ELEMENTS
OF
GEOMETRY,
PLANE AND SPHERICAL;
NUMEROUS PRACTICAL PROBLEMS.
BY
HORATIO N. ROBINSON, LL.D.,
AUTHOR OF A FULL COURSE OF MATHEMATICS.
REWRITTEN BY
I. F. QUINBY, A.M., LL.D.,
PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS AND NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER J
AUTHOR OF DIFFERENTIAL AND INTEGRAL CALCULUS.
IVISON, BLAKEMAN, TAYLOR & CO.
NEW YORK: CHICAGO:
"ROBINSON'S
Mathematical Series.
Graied to the wants of Primary, Intermediate, Grammar,
Normal, and High Schools, Academies, and Colleges.
Progressive Table Book.
Progressive Primary Arithmetic.
Progressive Intellectual Arithmetic,
liudlmcnts of Written Arithmetic.
JUXIOR-CLASS ARITHMETIC, Oral and Written. NEW.
Progressive Practical Arithmetic.
Key to Practical Arithmetic.
Progressive Higher Arithmetic.
Key to Higher Arithmetic.
Ken Elementary Algehra.
Key to Ken Elementary Algebra.
Ken University Algebra.
Key to Nen University Algebra.
Ken Geometry and Trigonometry. In one vol.
Geometry, Plane and Solid. In separate vol.
Trigonometry, Plane and Spherical. In separate voL
Ken Analytical Geometry and Conic Sections.
Ken Surveying and Navigation.
Ken Differential and Integral Calculus.
University Astronomy—Descriptive and Physical.
Key to Geometry and Trigonometry, Analytical Geometry and Conk
Sections, Surveying and Navigation.
Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by
DANIEL W. FISH, A.M.,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States tor the Eastern
District of New York.

PEEFAOE.
In the preparation of this work, the author's previous
treatise, Elements of Geometry, has formed the ground-
work of construction. But in adapting the work to the
present advanced state of Mathematical education in our
best Institutions, it was found necessary so to alter the
plan, and the arrangement of subjects, as to make this
essentially a new work. The demonstrations of proposi-
tions have undergone radical changes, many new proposi-
tions have been introduced, and the number of Practical
Problems greatly increased, so that the work is now believed
to be as full and complete as could be desired in an elemen-
tary treatise.
In view of the fact that the Seventh Book is so much
larger than the others, it may be asked why it is not divided
into two. We answer, that classifications and divisions
are based upon differences, and that the differences seized
upon for this purpose must be determined by the nature of
the properties and relations we wish to investigate. There
is such a close resemblance between the geometrical prop-
erties of the polyedrons and the round bodies, and the
demonstrations relating to the former require such slight
modifications to become applicable to the latter, that there
seems no sufficient reason for separating into two Books
that part of Geometry which treats of them.
iT PREFACE.
Practical rules with applications will be found throughout
the work, and in addition to these, there is a full collection
of carefully selected Practical Problems. These are given
to exercise the powers and test the proficiency of the pupil,
and when he has mastered the most or all of them, it is
not likely that he will rest satisfied with present acquisi-
tion, but, conscious of augmented strength and certain of
reward, he will enter new fields of investigation.
The author has been aided, in the preparation of the
present work, by I. F. Quinby, A.M., of the University of
Eochester, N. Y., late Professor of Mathematics in the
United States Military Academy at West Point. The
thorough scholarship and long and successful experience
of this gentleman in the class-room, eminently qualify him
for such a task; and to him the public are indebted for
much that is valuable, both in the matter and arrangement
of this treatise.
October, 1860.
CONTENTS.
PLANE GEOMETRY.
DEFINITIONS.
Geometrical Magnitudes ... .........Pagi 9
Plane Angles ........... 10
Piano Figures of Three Sides - .- ........... 12
Plane Figures of Four Sidos ...................... 13
The Circle ........... 14
Units of Measuro ..........................—...--. 15
Explanation of Terms ........................... 16
Axioms. ..... .................... .^......... 17
Abbreviations .........................^............ 17
BOOK I.
CONTENTS.
BOOK II.
Proportion, and its Application to Geometrical Investigations.... 59
BOOK III.
Of the Circle, and the Investigation of Theorems dependent on its
Properties. 88
1* (Tl
BOOK IV.
Problems in the Construction of Figures in Piano Geomotry. ... Ill
BOOK V.
On the Proportionalities and Measurement of Polygons and Circles. 130
Practical Problems 142
BOOK VI.
On the Intersections of Planes, the Relative Positions of Planes,
and of Planes and Lines. 152
BOOK VII.
Solid Geometry 172
Practical Problems , 229
BOOK VIII.
Practical Geometry.— Application of Algebra to Geometry, and
also Propositions for Original Investigation 231
Miscellaneous Propositions in Plane Geometry 238
BOOK IX.
Spherical Geometry 243
Definitions 243
GEOMETRY.
DEFINITIONS.
L Geometry is the science which treats of position, and
of the forms, measurements, mutual relations, and pro-
perties of limited portions of space.
Space extends without limit in all directions, and contains all
bodies.
2. A Point is mere position, and has no magnitude.
3. Extension is a term employed to denote that pro-
perty of bodies by virtue of which they occupy definite
portions of space. The dimensions of extension are
length, breadth, and thickness.
4. A Line is that which has extension in length only.
The extremities of a line are points.
5. A Eight or Straight Line is one all of whose parte
lie in the same direction.
6. A Curved Line is one whose consecutive parts, how-
ever small, do not lie in the same direction.
7. A Broken or Crooked Line is
composed of several straight lines,
joined one to another successively,
and extending in different directions.
When the word line is used, a straight line is to be understood,
unless otherwise expressed.
8. A Surface or Superficies is that which has extension
in length and breadth only.
9. A Plane Surface, or a Plane, is a surface such that
(9)
y
if any two of its points be joined by a straight line, every
point of this line will lie in the surface.
10. A Curved Surface is one which is neither a plane,
nor composed of plane surfaces.
11. A Plane Angle, or simply an Angle,
is the difference in the direction of two
lines proceeding from the same point.
The other angles treated of in geometry will he named and defined
in their proper connections.
12. A Volume, Solid, or Body, is that which has exten-
sion in length, breadth, and thickness.
These terms are used in a sense purely abstract, to denote mere
space—whether occupied by matter or not, being a question with
which geometry is not concerned.
Lines, Surfaces, Angles, and Volumes constitute the
different kinds of quantity called geometrical magnitudes.
13. Parallel Lines are lines which have ,
the same direction.
Hence parallel lines can never meet, however far they may be
produced; for two lines taking the same direction cannot approach
or recede from each other.
Two parallel lines cannot be drawn from the same point; for it
parallel, they must coincide and form one line.
PLANE ANGLES.
To make an angle apparent, the two
lines must meet in a point, as AB and
AC, which meet in the point A.
Angles are measured by degrees.
14. A Degree ia one of the three hundred and sixty
equal parts of the space about a point in a plane.
If, in the above figure, we suppose AC to coincide with AB,
there will be but one line, and no angle; but if AB retain its posi
tion, and A 0 begin to revolve about the point A, an angle will be
formed, and its magnitude will be expressed by that number of the
DEFINITIONS. \\
860 eqaal spaces about the point A, which is contained between
ABa.nl AC.
Angles are distinguished in respect to magnitude by
the terms Right, Acute, and Obtuse Angles.
15. A Eight Angle is that formed by one
line meeting another, so as to make equal
angles with that other.
'Ihe lines forming a right angle are perpendicular
t) :ach other.
16. An Acute Angle ia less than a right
angle.
17. An Obtuse Angle is greater than
a right angle.
Obtuse and acute angles are also called
oblique angles; and lines which are neither parallel nor perpen-
dicular to each other are called oblique lines.
18. The Vertex or Apex of an angle is the point in which
the including lines meet.
19. An angle is commonly designated by a letter at its
vertex; but when two or more angles have their vertices
at the same point, they cannot be
thus distinguished.
For example, when the three lines
AB, AG, and AD meet in the common
point A, we designate cither of the an-
gles formed, by three letters, placing
that at the vertex between those at the
opposite extremities of the including
lines. Thus, we say, the angle BAC,
eto B
20. Complements. — Two angles are said to be comple
ments of each other, when their sum is equal to one right
angle.
21. Supplements. — Two angles are said to be supple-
ments of each other, when their sum is equal to two nght
angles.

PLANE FIGURES.
22. A Plane Figure, in geometry, is a portion of a
plane bounded by straight or curved hDes, or by both
combined.
23. A Polygon is a plane figure bounded by straight
lines, called the sides of the polygon.
The least number of sides that can bound a polygon is
three, and by the figure thus bounded all other polygons
are analyzed.
*
FIGURES OF THREE SIDES.
24. A Triangle is a polygon having three sides and
three angles.
Tri is a Latin prefix signifying three; hence a Triangle is lito
rally a figure containing three angles. Triangles are denominated
from the relations both of their sides and angles.
25. A Scalene Triangle is one in
which no two sides are equal.
26. An Isosceles Triangle is one in
which two of the sides are equal.
27. An Equilateral Triangle is one in
ifhich the three sides are equal.
28. A Right-Angled Triangle is one
which has one of the angles a right
angle.
29. An Obtuse-Angled Triangle is one
Laving an obtuse angle.

30. An Acute-Angled Triangle is one
in which each angle is acute.
3L An Equiangular Triangle is one
having its three angles aqual.
Equiangular triangles are tlso equilateral, and vice versa.
FIGURES OF FOUR SIDES.
32. A Quadrilateral is a polygon having four sides and
four angles.
33. A Parallelogram is a quadrilateral
which has its opposite sides parallel. / /
Parallelograms are denominated from the rela- *•'
tions both of their sides and angles.
34. A Rectangle is a parallelogram hav-
ing its angles right angles.
35. A Square is an equilateral rectangle.
36. A Rhomboid is an oblique-angled parallelogram.
37. A Rhombus is an equilateral rhom-
»oid.
38. A Trapezium is a quadrilateral having
k> two sides parallel.

39. A Trapezoid is a quadrilateral in f
bich two opposite sir1— ""
I ie other two oblique.
which two opposite sides are parallel, and /
40. Polygons bounded by a greater number of sides
2

than four are denominated only by the number of sides.
A polygon of five sides is called a Pentagon; of six, a
Hexagon; of seven, a Heptagon; of eight, an Octagon;
of nine, a No7iagon, etc.
4L Diagonals of a polygon are lines
joining the vertices of angles not ad-
jacent.
42. The Perimeter of a polygon is its boundary consid-
ered as a whole.
43. The Base of a polygon is the side upon which the
polygon is supposed to stand.
44. The Altitude of a polygon is the perpendicular
distance between the base and a side or angle opposite
the base.
45. Equal Magnitudes are those which are not only
equal in all their parts, but which also, when applied the
one to the other, will coincide throughout their whole
extent.
46. Equivalent Magnitudes are those which, though they
do not admit of coincidence when applied the one to the
other, still have common measures, and are therefore
numerically equal.
47. Similar Figures have equal angles, and the same
number of sides.
Polygons may be similar without being equal; that is, the angles
and the number of sides may be equal, and the length of the sides
and the size of the figures unequal.
THE CIRCLE.
48. A Circle is a plane figure bound-
ed by one uniformly curved line, all of
the points in which are at the same
distance from a certain point within,
called the Center.
49. The Circumference of a circle is
the curved line that bounds it.

60. The Diameter of a circle is a line passing througn
its center, and terminating at both ends in the circum-
ference.
5L The Radius of a circle is a line extending from
its center to any point in the circumference. It is one
half of the diameter. All the diameters of a circle are
equal, as are also all the radii.
52. An Arc of a circle is any portion of the circum-
ference.
53. An angle having its vertex at the center of a
circle is measured by the arc intercepted by its sides.
Thus, the arc AB measures the angle A OB; and in gen-
eral, to compare different angles, we have but to compare
the arcs, included by their sides, of the equal circles
having their centers at the vertices of the angles.
UNITS OF MEASURE.
54. The Numerical Expression of a Magnitude is a numbei
expressing how many times it contains a magnitude of the
same kind, and of known value, assumed as a unit.
For lines, the measuring unit is any straight line of fixed
value, as an inch, a foot, a rod, etc.; and for surfaces, the
measuring unit is a square whose side may be any linear
unit, as an inch, a foot, a mile, etc. The linear unit
being arbitrary, the surface unit is equally so; and its
selection is determined by considerations of convenience
and propriety.
For example, the parallelogram ABD C is mea-
sured by the number of linear units in CD, mul-
tiplied by the number of linear units in A 0 or
BD) the product is the square units in ABDC.
For, conceive CD to be composed of any number
of equal parts—say five—and each part some unit of linear measure,
and AC composed of three such units; from each point of divi-
sion on CD draw lines parallel ia AC, and from each point of divi-
sion on A G draw lines parallel to CD or AB; then it is as obvious
as an axiom that the parallelogram trill contain 5x3 = 15 square
Units. Hence, to find the areas of right-angled parallelograms, mul-
tiply the base by the altitude.
EXPLANATION OP TERMS.
55. An Axiom is a self-evident truth, not only too sim-
ple to require, hut too simple to admit of, demonstration.
56. A Proposition is something which is either pro.
posed to be done, or to be demonstrated, and is either 8
problem or a theorem.
57. A Problem is something proposed to be done.
58. A Theorem is something proposed to be demon-
strated.
59. A Hypothesis is a supposition made with a view to
draw from it some consequence which establishes the
truth or falsehood of a proposition, or solves a problem.
60. A Lemma is something which is premised, or demon-
strated, in order to render what follows more easy.
61. A Corollary is a consequent truth derived imme-
diately from some preceding truth or demonstration.
62. A Scholium is a remark or observation made upon
something going before it.
63. A Postulate is a problem, the solution of which is
telf evident.
POSTULATES.
Let it be granted—
I. That a straight line can be drawn from any one point
to any other point;
II. That a straight line can be produced to any distance,
or terminated at any point;
HI. That the circumference of a circle can be de-
scribed about any center, at any distance from that center.
AXIOMS.
1. Things which are equal to the same thing are equal tt
each other.
2. When equals are added to equals the wholes are equal.
3. When equals are taken from equals the remainders are
tqual.
4. When equals are added to unequals the wholes are
unequal.'
5. When equals are taken from unequals the remainders
are unequal.
6. Things which are double of the same thing, or equal
things, are equal to each other.
7. Things which are halves of the same thing, or of equal
things, are equal to each other.
8. The whole is greater than any of its parts.
9. Every whole is equal to all its parts taken together.
10. Things which coincide, or fill the same space, are
identical, or mutually equal in all their parts.
11. All right angles are equal to one another.
12. A straight line is the shortest distance between two
points.
18. Two straight lines cannot inclose a space.
ABBREVIATIONS.
The common algebraic signs are used in this work,
and demonstrations are sometimes made through the
medium of equations; and it is so necessary that the
student in geometry should understand some of the more
simple operations of algebra, that we assume that he is
acquainted with the use of the signs. As the terms
circle, angle, triangle, hypothesis, axiom, theorem, cor-
ollary, and definition, are constantly occurring in a course
of geometry, we shall abbreviate them as shown in the
following list:
2* B
Addition is expressed by +
Subtraction " "...._
Multiplication" " .... X
Equality and Equivalency are expressed by . =
Greater than, is expressed by . . . . >
Less than,"" <
Tbus: B is greater than A, is written . B >A
B is less than A, "" . B<A
A circle is expressed by O
An angle"" L_
A right angle is expressed by . . . R. |_
Degrees, minutes, and seconds, are expressed
by "",
A triangle is expressed by .... A
The term Hypothesis is expressed by . . (Hy.)
"Axiom" ". (Ax.)
"Theorem"" (Th.)
"Corollary" ". (Cor.)
"Definition" ". . (Def.)
"Perpendicular is expressed by . _L
The difference of two quantities, when it is
not known which is the greater, is ex-
pressed by the symbol /v
Thus, the difference between A and B is written
A nj B.
BOOK 1. 19
BOOK I.
OF STRAIGHT LINES, ANGLES, AND POLYGONS.
THEOREM I.
When one straight line meets another, not at its extremity,
ihe two angles thus formed are two right angles, or they art
together equal to two right angles.
Let AB meet CD, and if AB is perpen- E (A
dicular to CD, it -does not incline to either
extremity of CD. In that case, the angle
ABD is equal to the angle ABC, and is c B D
a right angle, by Definition 15.
But if these angles are unequal, we are to show that
their sum is equal to two right angles. Conceive the
line BE to he drawn from the point B, so as not to incline
toward either extremity of CD; then, by Def. 15, the angles
CBE and EBD are right angles; but the angles CBA
and ABD make the same sum, or fill the same angular
space, as the two angles CBE and EBD, and are, con-
sequently, equal to two right angles. Hen<je the theorem;
when one straight line meets another, not at its extremity, the
sum of the two angles is equal to two right angles.
Cor. Hence, the two angles ABC and ABD are supple-
mentary to each other, (Def. 21).
THEOREM II.
From any point in a straight line, not at its extremity, the
sum of all the angles that can be formed on the same side of
the line is equal to two right angles.
Let CD be any line, and B any point w f
in it.
We are to show that the sum of all the
angles which can be formed at B, on one c~
si de of OB, will be equal to two right angles-

By Th. I, any two supplementary angles, as ABDS
ABC, are together equal to two right angles. And since
the angular space about the point B is neither increased
nor diminished by the number of lines drawn from that
point, the sum of all the angles DBA, ABE, EBII,
HBC, fills the same spaces as any two angles HBD,
B.BC. Hence the theorem; from any point in a line, the
turn of all the angles that can be formed on the same side of
the line is equal to two right angles.
Cor. 1. And, as the sum of all the angles that can be
formed on the other side of the line, CD, is also equal to
two right angles; therefore, all the angles that can be
formed quite round a point, B, by any number of lines, are
together equal to four right angles.
Cor. 2. Hence, also, the whole circum-
ference of a circle, being the sum of the
measures of all the angles that can be
made about the center F, (Def. 53), is the
measure of four right angles; conse-
quently, a semicircumference, is the mea-
sure of two right angles; and a quadrant, or 90°, is the
measure of one right angle.
THEOREM III.
If one straight line meets two other straight lines at a
common point, forming two angles, which together are equal
to two right angles the two straight lines are one and th*
lime line.
Let the line AB meet the
Hues BD and BE at the com-
mon point B, making the sum
of the two angles ABD, ABE,
equal to two right angles; we
are to prove that DB and BE
are one straight line.


If BB and BE are not in the same line, produce DB
to C, thus forming one line, DBQ.
Now by Th. 1, ABD + ABC must be equal to two
right angles. But by hypothesis, ABD + ABB is equal
to two right angles.
Therefore, ABD + ABC is equal to ABD + ABU,
(Ax. 1). From each of these equals take away the com-
mon angle ABD, and the angle ABC will be equal to
ABE, (Ax. 3). That is, the line BE must coincide with
BC, and they will be in fact one and the same line, and
they cannot be separated as is represented in the figure.
Hence the theorem; if one line meets two other lines at a
common point, forming two angles which together are equal
to two right angles, the two lines are one and the same line.
THEOREM IV.
i
If two straight lines intersect each other, the opposite or
vertical angles must be equal.
If AB and CD intersect each
other at E, we are to demonstrate
that the angle AEC is equal to
the vertical angle DEB; and the
angle AED, to the vertical angle
CEB.
As AB is one line met by DE, another line, the two
angles AED and DEB, on the same side of AB, are equal
to two right angles, (Th. 1). Also, because CD is a right
line, and AE meets it, the two angles AEC and A ED
are together equal to two right angles.
Therefore, AED + DEB = AEO + AED. (Ax. 1.)
If from these equals we take away the common angle
AED, the remaining angle DEB must be equal to the
remaining angle AEC, (Ax. 3). In like manner, we cau
prove that AED is equal to CEB. Hence the theorem;
if the two lines intersect each other, the verticil angle* nivit
be eciuai.

Second Demonstration.
ByDef. 11, the angle DEB is the difference in the
direction of the lines ED and EB; and the angle AEQ
is the difference in the direction of the lines EC and EA.
But ED is opposite in direction to EQ; and EB is
opposite in direction to EA.
Hence, the difference in the direction of ED and EB
is the 6ame as that of EG and EA, as is obvious by in-
spection.
Therefore, the angle DEB is equal to its opposite A EC
In like manner, we may prove AED = CEB.
Hence the theorem; if two lines intersect each other, the
vertical angles must be equal.
THEOREM V.
If a straight line intersects two parallel lines, the sum of
the two interior angles on the same side of the intersecting
line is equal to two right angles.
[Note. — By interior angles, we mean angles which lie between the
parallels; the exterior angles are those not between the parallels.]
Let the line EF intersect the
parallels AB and CD; then
we are to demonstrate that
the angles BGH + GHD =
2K.L_ _____
Because GB and HD are C ~/_ "~D
parallel, they are equally in- ^
clined to the line EF, or have
the same difference of direction from that line. There-
fore, \_FGB = L GHD. To each of these equals add
the \_BGH, and we have FGB +BGH=GHD +BQH.
But by Th. 1, the first member of this equation is equal
to two right angles; and the second member is the sum
of the two angles between the parallels. Hence the theo-
rem; if a line intersects two parallel lines, the sum of the two
interior angles on the same side of the intersecting line must
be equal to two right angles.

SctfouTi* —As AH and CD are parallel lines, and EF is a lin«
intersecting them, AH and EF must make angles equal to those made
by CD and EF. That is, the angles about the point 0 must be equal
to the corresponding angles about the point IT.
THEOREM VI.
If a line intersect! two parallel lines, the alternate interior
angles are equal.
Let AB and CD be paral-
lels, intersected by EF at E
and G. Then we are to prove
that the angle A GE is equal
to the alternate angle GEE,x
and CEG =» EGB.
By Th. 5, \_BGE + \_
GED = two right angles. Al-
so, by Th. 1, \_AGH+ \_BGE = two right angles.
From these equals take away the common angle BGH,
and L GEE will be left, equal to [_AGE, (Ax. 3). In
like manner, we can prove that the angle CHG is equal
to the angle HGB. Hence the theorem; if a line intersects
two parallel lines, the alternate interior angles are equal.
Cor. 1. Since \_AGE=[_FGB,
and [_AGE=\_GEE;
Therefore, |_ FGB = |_ GEE (Ax. 1).
Also, L A GF + |_ A GE = 2 E. [_, (Th. 1),
and L CHG + [_AGE = 2 E. |_, (Th. 5);
Therefore,
\_AGF + LAGE = |_CEG + [_AGE, (Ax. 1);
and [_AGF = [_ CHG, (Ax. 3).
That is, the exterior angle is equal to the interior opposit*
angle on the same side of the intersecting line.
Cor. 2. Sine* \_AGE = \__FGB,
and \_AGH = \__CHE;
Therefore, \_FGB =[_CEE.
In the same manner it may be shown that
\__AGF = \_EHD.
Hence, the alternate exterior angles are equal.
THEOREM VII.
If a line intersects two other lines, making the sum of tht
two interior angles on the same side of the intersecting lint
equal to two right angles, the two straight lines are parallel.
Let the line EF intersect
the lines AB and CD, making
the two angles BGH + GHD
= to two right angles; then
we are to demonstrate that
AB and CD are parallel. 6 /H b
As EF is a right line and •£
BG meets it, the two angles
FGB and BGH are together equal to two right angles,
(Th. 1). But by hypothesis, the angles, BGH and GHD,
are together equal to two right angles. From these two
equals take away the common angle BGH, and the re-
maining angles FGB and GHD must be equal, (Ax. 3).
Now, because GB and HD make equal angles with the
same line EF, they must extend in the same direction ; and
lines having the same direction are parallel, (Def. 13).
Hence the theorem; if a line intersects two other lines, making
the sum of the two interior angles on the same side of the in-
tersecting line equal to two right angles, the two lines must 00
parallel.
Cor. 1. If a line intersects two other lines, making the
alternate interior angles equal, the two lines intersected
must be parallel.
Suppose the [_ AGE - |_ GHD. Adding [_ HGB
to each, we have
\_AGH+ [_HGB = |_ GHD + [_HGB.
but the first member of this equation, that is, |_ A GH -\
|_ HGB, is equal to two right angles; hence the second
member is also equal to the same; and by the theorem,
the lines AB and CD are parallel.
Cor. 2. If a line intersects two other lines, making the
opposite exterior and interior angles equal, the two lines
intersected must be parallel.
Suppose the |_ FGB = |_ GHD. Adding the [_ EGB
to each, we have
L FGB + L HO-B = L GHD 4 RGB.
But the first member of this equation is equal to two
right angles; hence the second member is also equal to
two right angles; and by the theorem, the lines AB and
CD are parallel.
Cor. 3. If a line intersects two other lines, making the
alternate exterior angles equal, the lines must be parallel.
Suppose |_ B GF = ( % CHE, and |_ A &* = L DHE.
By Th. 4, |_ B GF = |_ 'A GE, and |_ CHE = [_ DEG.
And since [_BGF = [_CHE, [_AGH=[_DEG.
That is, the alternate interior angles are equal; and
hence (by Cor. 1) the two lines- are parallel.
THEOREM VIII.
Jf two angles have their sides parallel, the two angles will
be either equal or supplementary.
Let A C be parallel to BD, and AH
parallel to BF or to BG. Then we are
to prove that the angle DBF is equal
to the angle CAH, and that the angle
DBG is supplementary to the angle A.
The angle CAH is formed by the differ-
ence in the direction of AC and AH; and
the angle DBF is formed by the differ-
ence in the direction of BD and BF.
But A 0 and AH have the same direc-
tions as BD and BF, because they are respectively paral-
lel. Therefore, by Def. 11, |_ CAH= [_DBF. But the
line BG has the same direction as BF, and the angle
DBG is supplementary to DBF. Hence the theorem;
angles whose sides are parallel are either equal or supple-
mentary.


THEOREM IX.
The opposite angles of any parallelogram tre equal.
Let AEBG be a parallel-
ogram. Then we are to
prove that the angle GBE
is equal to its opposite angle
A.
Produce EB to D, and GB
to F; then, since BD is par-
allel to A G, and BF to AE, the angle DBF is equal to
the angle A, (Th. 8).
But the angles GBE and DBF, being vertical, are
equal, (Th. 4). Therefore, the opposite angles GBE and
A, of the parallelogram AEBG, are equal.
In like manner, we can prove the angle E equal to
the angle G. Hence the theorem; the opposite angles of
any parallelogram are equal.
THEOREM X.
The sum of the angles of any parallelogram is equal to
four right angles.
Let ABCD be a parallelo-
gram. We are to prove that v \
the sum of the angles A, B, C \ \
and D, is equal to four right V A
angles, or to 360°.
Because AD and BC are parallel lines, and AB inter-
sects them, the two interior angles A and B are together
equal to two right angles, (Th. 5). And because CD in-
tersects the same parallels, the two interior angles C and
D are also together equal to two right angles. By addi-
tion, we have the sum of the four interior angles of the
parallelogram ABOD, equal to four right angles. Hence
the theorem; the sum of the angles of any parallelogram it
toual tc four right angles.

THEOREM XI.
The sum of the three angles of any triangle is equal to two
right angles.
Let AB C be a triangle,
and through its vertex 0
draw a line parallel to the
base AB, and produce
the sides AC and BC.
Then the angles A and
a, being exterior and in-
terior opposite aDgles on
the same side of the line AC, are equal to each other.
For the same reason, |_ B = L b. The angles Cand c,
being vertical angles, are also equal, (Th. 4). Therefore,
the angles A, B, C are equal to the angles a, b, c respect-
ively. But the angles around the point C, on the upper
Bide of the parallel CD, are equal to two right angles,
(by Th. 2). Hence the theorem; the sum of the three
angles, etc.
Second Demonstration.
Let AEBG be a parallelogram.
Draw the diagonal GE; thus di-
viding the parallelogram into two
triangles, and the opposite angles
C and E each into two angles.
Because. GB and AE are parallel, the alternate interior
angles BGE and GEA are equal, (Th. 6). Designate
each of these by b.
In like manner, because EB and AG are parallel, the
alternate interior angles, BEG and EGA, are equal.
Designate each of these by a.
Now we are to prove .that the three angles B, b, and a,
and also that the three auglea A, a, and b, are equal to
two right angles
V


Because A and B are opposite angles of a parallelo-
gram, they are equal, (Th. 9), and \__A + \_B = 2 \_A.
And all the interior angles of the parallelogram are
«qual to four right angles, (Th. 10).
Therefore, 2A + 2a + 2b = 4 right angles.
Dividing by 2, and A + a+ 6 = 2"
That is, all the angles of the triangle AGE are togethei
e^ual to two right angles
Hence the theorem; the sum of the three angles, etc.
Scholium.—Any triangle, as AGE, may be conceived to be part of
a parallelogram. For, let AGE be drawn independently of the paral-
lelogram ; then draw EB from the point E parallel to AG, and through
the point G draw GB parallel to AE, and a parallelogram will be
formed embracing the triangle; and thus the sum of the three angles
of any triangle is proved equal to two right angles.
This truth is so fundamental, important, and practical,
as to require special attention; we therefore give a
Third Demonstration.
»
Let ABC be a triangle. Then
we are to show that the angles A,
C, and ABC, are together equal
fo two right angles.
Let AB be produced to Z>, and
from B draw BE parallel to A C.
Then, EBI) and CAB being exterior and interior op-
posite angles on the same side of the line AD, are equal,
(Th. 6, Cor. 1). Also, CBE and ACB, being alternate
angles, are equal, (Th. 6).
By addition, observing that |_ CBE, added to |_ EBD,
must make |_ CBD, we have
\_CBD = [_A + [_C. (10
To each of these equals add the angle CBA, and we
shall have
L CBA + L OBD = L^ + LC+L CB A.
But (by Th. 1), the sum of the first two is equal to two


right angles; therefore, the three angles, A, C, and CBA,
are together equal to two right angles.
Hence the theorem; the sum of the three angles, etc.
THEOREM XII.
If any side of a triangle is produced, the exterior tngle it
equal to the sum of the two interior opposite angles.
Let ABC be a triangle. Pro-
duce AB to D; and we are to
prove that the angle CBD is equal
to the sum of the two angles A
and C.
"We establish this theorem by a
course of reasoning in all respects the same as that by
which we obtained Eq. (1.), third demonstration, (Th. 11).
Cor. 1. Since the exterior angle of any triangle is equal
to the sum of the two interior opposite angles, therefore
it is greater than either one of them.
Cor. 2. If two angles in one triangle be equal to two
angles in another triangle, the third angles will also be
equal, each to each, (Ax. 3); that is, the two triangles
will be mutually equiangular.
Cor. 3. If one angle in a triangle be equal to one angle
in another, the sum of the remaining angles in the one
will also be equal to the sum of the remaining angles in
the other, (Ax. 3).
Cor. 4. If one angle of a triangle be a right angle, the
sum of the other two will be equal to a right angle,
and each of them singly will be acute, or less than a right
angle.
Cor. 5 The two smaller angles of every triangle are
acute, or each is less than a right angle.
Cor. 6. All the angles of a triangle may be acute, but
no triangl 3 can have more than one right or one obtuse
Bgle.
3*

THEOREM XIII.
In any polygon, the sum of all the interior angles is equal
to twice as many right angles, less four, as the figure has
sides.
Let ABODE be any polygon;
we are to prove that the sum of
all its interior angles, A+B + O
+ D + E, is equal to twice as
many right angles, less four, as
the figure has sides.
From any point, p, within the
figure, draw lines pA, pB, pC, etc., to all the angles,
thus dividing the jiolygon into as many triangles as it
has sides. Now, the sum of the three angles of each of
these triangles is equal to two right angles, (Th. 11); and
the sum of the angles of all the triangles must be equal
to twice as many right angles as the figure has sides. But
the sum of these angles contains the sum of four right
angles about the point p; taking these away, and the
remainder is the sum of the interior angles of the figure.
Therefore, the sum must be equal to twice as many right
angles, less four, as the figure has sides.
Hence the theorem ; in any polygon, etc.
From this Theorem is derived the rule for finding the
sum of the interior angles of any right-lined figure:
Subtract 2 from the number of sides, and multiply the re-
mainder by 2; the product ivill be the number of right.angles.
Thus, if the number of sides be represented by S, the
number of right angles will be represented by (2S— 4).
The Theorem is not varied in case
of a re-entrant angle, as repre-
sented at d, in the figure ABCdEF.
Draw lines from the angle d to
the aaveral opposite angles, making
as many triangles as the figure has
sides, less two, and the sum of the -A- V
three angles of each triangle equals two right angles.

31

—E
THEOREM XIY.
If the sides of one angle be respectively perpendicular
to the sides of a second angle, these two angles will be either
equal or supplementary.
Let BAD be the first angle, and
from any point within it, as C, draw
CB and CD, at right angles, the
first to AB, and the second to AD,
and produce CD in the direction
CE, thus forming at C the supple-
mentary angles BCE, BCD; then
will the angle BCE he equal to the angle A, and therefore
BCD, which is the supplement of BCE, will also bo the
supplement of the angle A.
For since ABCD is a quadrilateral, the sum of the four
interior angles is four right angles (Prop. 13), and because
the angles ABC and ADC are each right angles, the sum
of the angles BAD, BCD is two right angles. But the
sum of the adjacent angles BCE, BCD is also two right
angles. Hence, if in these last two sums we omit the com-
mon angle BCD, we have remaining the angle BCE, equal
to the angle BAD, and consequently the angle BCD which
is the supplement of the first of these equal angles is also
the supplement of the other.
Hence the Theorem.
Scholium.—If the vertex of the second angle bo without the first angle,
we would draw through any assumed point within tho first angle parallels to
the sides of tho second; the above demonstration will then apply to the first
angle, and tho anglo formed by the parallels.
THEOREM XV.
From any point icithout a straight line, but one perpen-
dicular can be drawn to that line.
From the point A let us suppose
it possible that two perpendiculars,
A B and A C, can be drawn. Now, be-
cause AB is a supposed perpendicu-
lar, the angle ABC is a right angle;
and because AC is a supposed per-
B C
pendicular, the angle A CB is also a right angle; and if
two angles of the triangle ABC are together equal to two
right angles, the third angle, BAC, must he infinitely
6mall, or zero; that is, the two perpendiculars heing drawn
through the common point A, and including no angle,
must necessarily coincide, and form one and the same per-
pendicular.
Hence the theorem; from any point without a straight
line, etc.
Cor. At a given point in a straight line but one per-
pendicular can he erected to that line; for, if there could
be two perpendiculars, we should have unequal righ
angles, which is impossible.
THEOREM XVI.
Two triangles which have two sides and the included angle
in the one, equal to two sides and the included angle in the
other, each to each, are equal in all respects.
In the two A's, ABC and DEF,
on the supposition that AB = DE,
AC=DF, and [_A = [_D, we
are to prove that B C must = EF,
the [_B=[_E, and the \_C =
[_F.
Conceive the a ABC cut out of the paper, taken up,
and placed on the A DEF in such a manner that the
point A shall fall on the point D, and the line AB on
the line DE; then the point B will fall on the point E>
because the lines are equal. Now, as the [_A = [_D,
the line ACmust take the same direction as DF, and.falH
on DF; and as A0 = DF, the point C will fall on F. B
being on E and C on F, BC must be exactly on EF,
(otherwise, two straight lines would enclose a space, Ax.
13), and BC= EF, and the two magnitudes exactly fiil
khe same space. Therefore, BC = EF, \_B = |__ E,
_C=\_F, and the two A's are equal, (Ax. 10).
Hence the theorem; two triangles which have two sides, etc.


33

THEOREM XVII.
When two triangles have a side and two adjacent angles in
iht one, equal to a side and two adjacent angles in the other,
each to each, the two triangles are equal in all respect*.
In two a's, as ABC and
DEF, on the supposition
that BC = EF,[_B = l_E,
Mid l_ C = |_ F, we are to
prove that AB = DE, AC
-=DF, andL-4 = \_D.
Conceive the A ABC taken up and placed on the A
DEF, so that the side BC shall exactly coincide with its
equal side EF; now, hecause the angle B is equal to the
angle E, the line BA will take the direction of ED, and
will fall exactly upon ;t; and because the angle C is equal
to the angle F, the line CA will take the direction of
FD, and fall exactly upon it; and the two lines BA and
CA, exactly coinciding with the two lines ED and FD,
the point A will fall on D, and the two magnitudes will
exactly fill the same space; therefore, by Ax. 10, they are
equal, and AB = DE, AC' = DF, and the [_A = \_D.
Hence the theorem; when two triangles have a side and
two adjacent angles in the one, equal to, etc.
THEOREM XVIII.
If two sides of a triangle are equal, the angles opposite tu
these sides are also equal.
Let ABO be a triangle; and on
tha supposition that AC = BC, we
are to prove that the |_ J.=the [_B.
Conceive the angle C divided into
two equal angles by the line CD;
then we have two A's, ADC and
BDC, which have the two sides, AC
and CD of the one, equal to the two
sides, CB and CD of the other; and

the included angle ACD, of the one, equa. to the in-
cluded angle BCD of the other: therefore, (Th.16),-423
= BD, and the angle A, opposite to CD of the one tri-
angle, is equal to the angle B, opposite to CD of the
other triangle; that is, |_ A = |_ B.
Hence the theorem; if two sides of a triangle are equal,
the angles, etc.
Cor. 1. Conversely: if two angles of a triangle are equal,
tfa sides opposite to them are equal, and the triangle it
i»osceles.
For, if AC is not equal to BC, suppose BC to be tne
greater, and make BE = AE; then will A AEB be isos-
celes, and \_EAB = \_EBA; hence \_EAB = [_ CAB,
or a part is equal to the whole, which is absurd; therefore,
CB cannot be greater than AC, that is, neither of the
sides AC, BC, can be greater than the other, and conse-
quently they are equal.
Cor. 2. As the two triangles, ACD and BCD, are in all
respects equal, the line which bisects the angle included
between the equal sides of an isosceles A also bisects the
base, and is perpendicular to the base.
Scholium 1.—If in the perpendicular DC, any other point than G
be taken, and lines he drawn to the extremities A and B, such lines
will be equal, as is evident from Th. 16; hence, we may announce
»His truth: Any point in a perpendicular drawn from the middle of a
line, is at equal distances from the two extremities of the line.
Scholium 2. — Since two points determine the position of a line, it
follows, that a line which joins two pointi each equally distant from the
txtremities of a given line, is perpendicular to this line at its middk
point.
THEOREM XIX.
The greater side of every trianjle has the greater angle
opposite to it.
Let ABC be a A; and on the supposition that A C w
greater than AB, we are to prove that the angle ABC is
85

greater than the |_ 0. From AC, the
greater of the two sides, take AD, equal
to the less side AB, and draw BD, thus
making two triangles of the original tri-
angle. As AB = AD, the |_ ADB =
the \_ ABD, (Th. 18).
But the |_ ADB is the exterior angle
of the A BDC, and is therefore greater
than C, (Th. 12, Cor. 1); that is, the
[_ ABD is greater than the |_ C Much more, then, L
the angle ABC greater than the angle C.
Hence the theorem; the greater side of every triangle, etc.
Cor. Conversely: the greater angle of any triangle has
the greater side opposite to it.
In the triangle ABC, let the angle B be greater than
the angle A; then is the side AC greater than the side
BC.
For, if BC = AC, the angle A must be equal to the
angle B, (Th. 18), which is contrary to the hypothesis;
and if BC~>AC, the angle A must be greater than the
angle B, by what is above proved, which is also contrary
to the hypothesis; hence BC can be neither equal to, nor
greater, than AC; it is therefore les3 than AC.
THEOREM XX.
The difference between any two sides of a triangle is leu
than the third side.
Let ABChe a A, in which ACis greater
tnan AB; then we are to prove that A C
—AB io less than BC.
On AC, the greater of the two sides,
tay off AD equal to AB.
Now, as a straight line is the shortest
distance between two points, we have
AB + BCyAC. (1)

From these unequals suotract the equals AB = AD,
and we have B.C>AC— AB. (Ax. 5).
Hence the theorem; the difference between any two sides
of a triangle, etc.

THEOREM XXI.
ff two triangles have the three sides cf the one equal U
the three sides of the other, each to each, the two triangles art
equil, and the equal angles are opposite the equal sides.
In two triangles, as ABC and ABD, on the supposition
that the side AB of the one = the side A B of the other,
AC=AD, and BC=BD, we are to demonstrate that
[_ACB = \_ADB, [_BAC =
[_BAJD, and [_ABC = [_ABD.
Conceive the two triangles to
be joined together by their long-
est equal sides, and draw the
line CD.
Then, in the triangle A CD,
because AC is equal to AD,
the angle ACD is equal to the angle ADC, (Th. 18). In
like manner, in the triangle BCD, because BC is equal
to BD, the angle BCD is equal to the angle BDC. Now,
the angle ACD being equal to the angle ADC, and the
angle BCD to the angle BDC, [_ACD + [_BCD = [__
ADC + [_BDC, (Ax. 2); that is, the whole angle ACB ia
equal to the whole angle ADB.
Since the two sides A C and CB are equal to the two sidcf
AD and DB, each to each, and their included angles A CB,
ADB, are alsj equal, the two triangles ABC, ABD, are
equal, (Th. 16), and have their other angles equal; that
is, \_BAC=[ BAD, and [_ABC= \_ABD.
Hence tht theorem; if two triangles have the three side*
of the one. etc.
37

THEOREM XXII.
If two triangles have two side* of the one equal to ttct
tides of the other, each to each, and the included angles ws\
equal, the third sides will be unequal, and the greater thirS
tide will belong to the triangle which has the greater included
ingle.
In the two A's, ABC and
AOD, let AB and AC of the
one A be equal to AD and A C
of the other A, and the angle
BAC greater than the angle
DAC; we are to prove that
the Bide BC is greater than the
side CD.
Conceive the two a's joined together by their shorter
equal sides, and draw the lice BD. Now, as AB = AD,
ABD is an isosceles A. From the vertex A, draw a line
bisecting the angle BAD. This line must be perpendic-
ular to the base BD, (Th. 18, Cor. 2). Since the [_BA0
is greater than the [_DAC, this line must meet BC, and
will not meet CD. From the point E, where the per-
pendicular meets BC, draw ED.
Now BE = DE, (Th. 18, Scholium 1).
Add EC to each; then BC= DE + EG.
But DB + EC is greater than DC.
Therefore BC> DO.
Hence the theorem; if two triangles have two sides of
one equal to two sides of the other, etc.
Cor. Any point out of the perpendicular drawn from
the middle point of a 'ine, is unequally distant from the
extremities :>f the line.
4
THEOREM XXIII.

A perpendicular is the shortest line that can be drawn
from any point to a straight line; and if other lines be
drawn from the same point to the same straight line, that
which meets it farthest from the perpendicular will be
longest; and lines at equal distances from the perpendicuA
lar, on opposite sides, are equal.
Let A be any point without the
line DE; let AB he the perpen-
dicular; and AC, AD, and AE
oblique lines; then, if BC is less
than BD, and BC=BE, we are to
show,
1st. That AB is less than AC.
2d. That A C is less than AD. 3d. That A C=AE
1st. In the triangle ABC, as AB is perpendicular to
BC, the angle ABC is a right angle; and, therefore (by
Theorem 12, Cor. 4); the angle BCA is less than a right
angle; and, as the greater side is always opposite the
greater angle, AB is less than AC; and AC may be
any line not identical with AB; therefore a perpen-
dicular is the shortest line that can be drawn from A
to the line DE.
2d. As the two angles, ACB and ACD, are together
equal to two right angles, (Th. 1), and ACB is less than
a light angle, ACD must he greater than a right angle;
consequently, the L_ D is less than a right angle; and, in
the A ACD, AD is greater than AC, or AC is less than
AD, (Th. 19, Cor.).
3d. In the a's ABC and ABE, AB is common, CB=
BE, and the angles at B are right angles; therefore, A C=
AE, (Th. 16).
Hence the theorem; aperpendicidar is the shortest line,
etc.
Cor. Conversely; if two equal oblique lines be drawn

from the same point to a given straight line, they will
meet the line at equal distances from the foot of the per-
pendicular drawn from that point to the given line.
THEOREM XXIV.
The opposite sides, and also the opposite angles of any par-
Melogram, are equal.
Let ABCD be a parallelogram.
Then we are to shyow that AB = DC,
AD = BO, [_A = [_C, and \_ADO
r=\_ABC.
Draw a diagona1, as BD; now, be-
cause AB and DC are parallel, the al-
ternate angles ABD and BDC are equal, (Th. 6). Foi
the same reason, as AD and BU are parallel, the angles
ADB and DBC are equal. Now, in the two triangles
ABD and BCD, the side BD is common,
the [_ADB = \_DBC (1)
and \_BDC = [_ABD (2)
Therefore, the angle A = the angle C, and the two tri-
angles are equal in all respects, (Th. 17); that is, the
sides opposite the equal angles are equal; or, AB = DC,
and AD = BC. By adding equations (1) and (2), we have
the angle ADC= the angle ABC, (Ax. 2).
Hence the theorem; the opposite sides, and the opposite
angles, etc.
Oor. 1. As the sum of all the angles of a parallelogram
13 equal to four right angles, and the angle A is always
equal to the opposite angle C; therefore, if A is a right
angle, C is also a right angle, and the figure is a rect-
angle.
Cor. 2. As the angle ABC, added to the angle A, gives
the same sum as the angles of the A ADB; therefore,
the two adjacent angles of a parallelogram are togeti.er
equal to two right angles.

THEOREM XXV.
If the opposite sides of a quadrilateral are equal, they art
also parallel, and the figure is a parallelogram.
Let A BCD be any quadrilateral;
on the supposition that AD = BC, and
AB = DC. we are to prove that AD is
parallel to BC, and AB parallel to DC.
Draw the diagonal BD\ we now
have two triangles, ABD and BCD,
which have the side BD common, AD of the one = B0
of the other, and AB of the one = CD of the other;
therefore the two A's are equal, (Th. 21), and the
angles opposite the equal sides are equal; that is, the
angle ADB = the angle OBD; but these are alternate
angles; hence, AD is parallel to BC, (Th. 7, Cor. 1);
and because the angle ABD = the angle BDC, AB is
parallel to CD, and the figure is a parallelogram.
Hence the theorem; if the opposite sides of a quadri-
lateral, etc.
Cor. This theorem, and also Th. 24, proves that the
two A's which make up the parallelogram are equal;
and the same would be true if we drew the diagonal
from A to C; therefore, the diagonal of any parallelogram
bisects the parallelogram.
THEOREM XXVI.
The lines which join the corresponding extremities of two
eqvnl and varallel straight lines, are themselves equal and
parallel; and the figure thus formed is a parallelogram.
On the supposition that AB is
squal and parallel to DC, we are to
prove that AD is equal and parallel
to BC; and that the figure is a par-
allelogram.
Draw the diagonal BD; now, since

AB au'd DC are parallel, and BD joins them, the alter-
nate angles ABD and BDC are equal; and since the
side AB = the side DC, and the side BD i? common to
the two A's ABD and CDB, therefore the two triangles
are equal, (Th. 16); that is, AD — BC, the angle A = O,
and the |_ AZXB = the \__DBC; also AB is parallel to
BOi and the figure is a parallelogram.
Hence the theorem; the lines which join the corresponding
•extremities, etc.
THEOREM XXVII.
Parallelograms on the same base, and between the same
parallels, are equivalent, or equal in respect to area or sur-
face.
Let ABEO and ABDF be two
parallelograms on the same base
AB, and between the sam^ paral-
lels AB and CD; we are to prove
that these two parallelograms are
equal.
Now, CE and FD are equal, be-
cause they are each equal to AB, (Th. 24); and, if from
the whole line CD we take, in succession, CB and FD,
there will remain ED = CF, (Ax. 3); but BE = AC, and
AF= BD, (Th. 24); hence we have two A's, CAF and
EBD, which have the three sides of the one equal to the
three sides of the other, each to each; therefore, the tvro
A's are equal, (Th. 21). If, from the whole figure
ABDC, we take away the A CAF, the parallelogram
ABDF will remain; and if from the whole figure we take
away the other A EBD, the parallelogram ABEC will
remain. Therefore, (Ax. 3), the parallelogram ABDF =
the parallelogram ABEC.
Hence the theorem; Parallelograms on the same base, etc.

4*
c
E
V
F 11
1
THEOREM XXVIII.
Triangles on the same base and between the same parallel*
are equivalent.
Let the two a'b ABE and ABF
have the same base AB, and be be-
tween the same parallels AB and
EF; then we are to prove that they
are equal in surface.
From B draw the line BD, par- A B
allel to AF; and from A draw the line AC, parallel to
BE; and produce EF, if necessary, to C and D; now the
parallelogram ABDF= the parallelogram ABEC, (Th.
27). But the A ABE is one half the parallelogram
ABEC, and the A ABF is one half the parallelogram
ABDF; and halves of equals are equal, (Ax. 7); there-
fore the A ABE = the A ABF.
Hence the theorem; triangles on the same base, etc.
THEOREM XXIX.
Parallelograms on equal bases, and between the same par
allils, are equal in area.
Let ABCI) and EFGH, be two
parallelograms on equal bases, AB
and EF, and between the same
parallels, AF and DG; then we are
to prove that they are equal in area.
AB = EF' = HG; but lines which join equal and
parallel lines, are themselves equal and parallel, (Th. 26);
therefore, if AH &n& BG be drawn, the figure ABGH is
a parallelogram = to the parallelogram ABCD, (Th. 27);
and if we turn the whole figure over, the two parallelo-
grams, GHEF and GHAB, will stand on the same base,
GH, and between the same parallels; therefore, GHEJt?
= GHAB, and consequently ABCD = EFGH, (Ax. 1).
Hence the theorem; Parallelograms on equal bases, eta.


Cor. Triangles on equal bases, and between the same
parallels, are equal in area. For, draw BD and EG; the
A ABtifia one half of the parallelogram AC, and the
A EMGr is one half of the equivalent parallelogram FH;
therefore, the A ABD = the A EFG, (Ax. 7).
THEOREM XXX.
Jf a triangle and a parallelogram are upon the same or equa.
bases, and between the same parallels, the triangle is equiva-
lent to one half the parallelogram.
Let ABC be a A, and ABDE a
parallelogram, on the same base AB,
and between the same parallels; then
we are to prove that the a ABC is
equivalent to one half of the parallel-
ogram ABDE.
Draw EB the diagonal of the parallelogram; now,
because the two A's ABC and ABE are on the same
base, and between the same parallels, they are equiva-
lent, (Th. 28); but the A ABE is one half the parallel-
ogram ABDE, (Th. 25, Cor.); therefore the A ABC is
equivalent to one half of the same parallelogram, (Ax. 7).
Hence the theorem; if a triangle and a parallelogram,
etc
THEOREM XXXI.
The complementary parallelograms described about any
point in the diagonal of any parallelogram, are equivalerdb to
each other.
Let ICbea parallelogram, and
BD its diagonal; take any point,
as E, in the diagonal, and through
thi3 point draw lines parallel to the
sides of the parallelogram, thus
forming four parallelograms.
We are now to prove that the complementary paral-
lelograms, A Fj and EC, are equivalent.

By (Tli. 25, Cor.) we learn that the A ABD = A DBC.
Also by the same Cor., A a = A b, and A c = a d; there-
fore by addition
Aa+Ac=AJ + A<£.
Now, from the whole A ABD take A a + A c, ind
from the whole A DBC take the equal sum, A b + A i,
and the remaining parallelograms AE and EC are equir
alent, (Ax. 3).
ITence the theorem; the complementary parallelogram^
etc.
THEOREM XXXII.
The perimeter of a rectangle is less than that of any rhom-
boid standing on the same base, and included between the same
parallels.
Let A BCD be a rect-
angle, and ABEF a rhom-
boid having the same base,
and their opposite sides
in the same line parallel
to the base.
We are now to prove that the perimeter ABCDA is less
than ABEFA.
Because AD is a perpendicular from A to the line DE_
and AF an oblique line, AD is less than AF, (Th. 23).
For the same reason .BC is less than BE; hence AD +
BC<AF+ BE. Adding the sum, AB + DC, to the firr.l
member of this inequality, and ito eqnal AB 4 FE to
the second member, we-have AB + BC -f CD + DA, di
the perimeter of the rectangle, less thau AB 4 BE -f
EF + FA, or the perimeter of the rhomV>;d. Hen je
the theorem; the perimeter of a rectangle, etc.


Thus far, areas have been considered only relatively
and in the abstract. We will now explain how we may
pass to the absolute measures, or, more properly, to the
numerical expressions for areas.
THEOREM XXXIII.
The area of any plane triangle is measured by the pro*
duct of its base by one half its altitude; or by one half of
(he product of its base by its altitude.
Let ABC represent any triangle, AB
its base, and AD, at right angles to AB,
its altitude; now we are to show that the
area of ABC is equal to the product of
AB by one half of AD; or one half of
AB by AD; or one half of the product of AB by AD.
On AB construct the rectangle ABED; and the area
of this rectangle is measured by AB into AD (Def.
54); but the area of the A ABC is equivalent to one
half this rectangle, (Th. 30). Therefore, the area of the
A is measured by \ AB x AD, or one half the product
of its base by its altitude. Hence the theorem; the area
of any plane triangle, etc.
THEOREM XXXIV.
The area of a trapezoid is measured by one half the sum
of its parallel sides multiplied by the perpendicular distance
betwe&n them.
l,etABDO represent any trape-
eoi 1, draw the diagonal BO, divid-
ing it into two triangles, ABC and
BCD: OD is the base of one tri-
angle, and AB may be considered
as the base of the other; and EF is the common altitude
of the two triangles.
Now, by Th. 33, the area of the triangle BCD = J CB
v EF; and the area of the A ABC= \AB x EF; bul

46
GEOMETRY.
L K
II
a b
by addition, the area of the two A's, or of the trape-
zoid, is equal to £ (AB+CD)xEF. Hence the theorem;
the area of a trapezoid, etc.
THEOREM XXXV.
If one of two lines is divided into any number of parts, the
rectangle contained by the two lines is equal to the sum of the
several rectangles contained by the undivided line and the seve-
ral parts of the divided line.
Let AB and AD be two lines,
and suppose AB divided into any
number of parts at the points E,
F, G, etc.; then the whole rect-
angle contained by the two lines
is AH, which is measured by AB
into AD. But the rectangle AL is measured by AB
into AD; the rectangle EK is measured by EF into EL,
which is equal to EF into AD; and so of all the other
partial rectangles; and the truth of the proposition is as
obvious as that a whole is equal to the sum of all its
parts. Hence the theorem; if one of two lines is divided,
etc. .
THEOREM XXXVI.
Jf a straight line is divided into any two parts, the square
described on the whole line is equivalent to the sum of tht
squares described on the two parts plus twice the rectangle con-
tained by the parts.
Lot AB be any line divided into
any two parts at the point C; now we
are to prove that the square on AB
is equivalent to the sum of the
squares on .4.(7 and CB plus twice the
rectangle contained by AC and CB.
On AB describe the square AD.
Through the point C draw CM, par-

allel to BD; take BE = BC, and through E draw EKN,
parallel to AB. "We now have CS, the square on CB, by
direct construction.
As AB = BD, and CB = BH, by subtraction, AB —
CB = BD — BH; otAC= ED. But JVJT = .Atf, being
opposite sides of a parallelogram; and for the same rea-
son, KM= BD. Therefore, (Ax. 1), NK= KM, and the
figure NM'\& a square on NK, equal to a square on AG,
But the whole square on AB is composed of the two
squares CH, NM, and the two complements or rectangles
AK and KD ; and since each of these latter is AC in
length, and BO in width, each has for its measure AO into
CB; therefore the whole square on AB is equivalent to
ACi + BC* + 2ACx OB.
Hence the theorem; if a straight line is divided into any
two parts, etc.
This theorem may be proved algebraically, thus:
Let w represent any whole right line divided into any
two parts a and b; then we shall have the equation
w = a + b
By squaring, w* = a' + b* + 2ab.
Cor. J£ a=b, then w'=Aa'; that is, the square de-
scribed on any line is four times the square described on
one half of it.
THJOREM XXXVII.
The square described on the difference of two lines is equiv-
alent to the sum of the squares described on the two lines di-
minished by twice the rectangle contained by the lines.
Let AB represent the greater of two lines, CB the
less line, and A C their difference.
We are now to prove that the square described on AG
vs equivalent to the sum of the squares on AB and BC
diminished by twice the rectangle contained by AB
and BC.
Conceive the square AF to be described on AB, and
L E
the square BL on CB; on A O describe ,
the square ACGM, and produce MG
to K. «
As aC=AC, and CL = CB, by
addition, (GC + CL), or CrZ, is equal
to AC + CB, or AB. Therefore, the
rectangle GE is AB in length, and'
OB in width, and is measured by AB
X BC.
Also Aff = J.5, and AM = J. (7; by subtraction, .JfU
48 GEOMETRY.
length, and CB in width, and is measured by AB X BC;
and the two rectangles GE and J?"if are together equiva-
lent to 2 A B x .gtf.
Now, the squares on AB and .BCmake the whole figure
AffFELC; and from this whole figure, or these two
Bquares, take away the two rectangles JJ^Tand GE, and
the square on A C only will remain; that is,
AC2 = AB' + B0' — 2AB x BC.
Hence the theorem; the square described on the differ
ence of two lines, etc.
This theorem may be proved algebraically, thus:
Let a represent the greater of two lines, b the less, and
d their difference; then we must have this equation:
d = a —b
By squaring, d* = a' + b2 — 2ab.
a a'
Oor. If d = b, then d = h- , and d' = -j; that is, the
square described on one half of any line is equivalent
to one fourth of the square described on the whole line.
THEOREM XXXVIII.
The difference of the squares described on any two lines i»
equivalent to the rectangle contained by the sum and difference
of the lines.
Let A B be the greater of two lines, and A C the less,
and on these lines describe the squares AD, AM; then, the

difference of the squares on AB and AC is the two rect-
angles EF and FC. We are now to
show that the measure of these rect-
angles may he expressed by {AB + AC)
x {AB — AC).
The length of the rectangle EF is ED,
or its equal ^41?; and the length of the a C~b
rectangle FC is'MC, or its equal AC;
therefore, the length of the two together (if we con
ceive them put between the same parallel lines) will be
AB + AC; and the common width is CB, which is equal
to AB—AC; therefore, AB — AC2 = {AB+AC)x {AB
—AC).
Hence the theorem; the difference of the squares de-
scribed on any two lines, etc.
This theorem may be proved algebraically: thus,
Let a represent one line, and b another;
Then a + b is their sum, and a — b their difference;
and "{a + b) X {a — b) = at—b'.
THEOREM XXXIX.
'The square described on the hypotenuse of any right-angled
triangle is equivalent to the sum of the squares described *n
the other two sides.
Let ABC represent any right-angled triangle, the right
angle at B; we are to prove that the square on AC is
equivalent to the sum of two squares; one on AB, the
other on BC.
On the three sides of the triangle describe the three
squares, AD, AI. and BM. Through the point B, draw
BNE perpendicular to AC, and produce it to meet tho
line GI'm K; also produce AF to meet GI in H, and
ML to meet GI produced in K.
Remark. — That tho lines, G/and ML, produced, meet at the poin
K, may he readily shown. As the proof of this fact is not necessary for
thfc demonstration, it is left as an exercise for the learner.
5 D
50
GEOMETRY.

The angle BAG is a right angle, and the angle NAR
is also a right angle; if
from these equals we
subtract the common
angle BAH, the re-
maining angle, BAC,
must be equal to the re-
maining angle GAH.
The angle G is a right
angle, equal to the
angle ABC; and AB
= AG; therefore, the
two A's ABC and
AGS are equal, and
AH=AC. ButiC =
AF; therefore, AH—
AF. Now, the two
parallelograms, AE and AHKB are equivalent, because
they are upon equal bases, and between the same paral-
lels, FH and EK, (Th. 29).
But the square AI, and the parallelogram AHKB, aio
equivalent, because they are on the same base, AB, and
between the same parallels, AB and GK; therefore, the
square AI, and the parallelogram AE, being each equiv-
alent to the same parallelogram AHKB, are equivalent
to each other, (Ax. 1). In the same manner we may
prove that the square BM is equivalent to the rectangle
ND; therefore, by addition, the two squares, AI and
BM, are equivalent to the two parallelograms, AE and
ND, or to the square AD.
Hence the theorem; the square described on the hypot*
nuse of a right-angled triangle, etc.
Cor. If two right-angled triangles have the hypotenuse, and
a side of the cne equal to the hypotenuse and a side of the
other, each to each, the two triangles are equal.
Lot ABCard AGH he the two A's, in which we sap-
pose AC = AH, and BC = GH; then will AG = AB
For, we have AC* = A£2 + BC',
or, by transposing, AC* — BC* = -45,
and Zzr^gg'+gg',
or, by transposing, AH*— GH* = AG'.
But by the hypothesis AC* —~BC* = AH* — GH";
hence, AB" = AG*, or, AB = AG.
Soholiux.—Ths two sides, ABanA BC, may vary, while -4 C remain*
ftenstant. AB may be equal to BC; then the point JVwill be in th«
middle of AC. When AB is very near the length of AC, and .flCvery
small, then the point iVfalls very near to C. Now as AE and ND are
right-angled parallelograms, their areas are measured by the product
of their bases by their altitudes; and it is evident that, as they have the
same altitude, these areas will vary directly as their bases AN and
NC; hence the squares on AB and BC, which are equivalent to those
rectangles, vary as the lines AN and NC.
The following outline of the demonstration of this pro-
position is presented as a useful disciplinary exercise for
the student.
We employ the same figure, in which no change is
made except to draw through C the line CP, parallel to BK.
The first step is to prove the equality of the triangles
AGH and ABC, whence AH = AC. But AC = AF;
therefore AH= AF.
The parallelograms AFEN and AHKB are equiva
lent. Also, the parallelogram AHKB = the square ABIG,
(Th. 27), and the parallelogram KBCP=JSrUDC=sqxi&re
BCML. Now, by adding the equals
AFEN= ABIG
NEDC = BCML
we obtain AFDC = ABIG + BCML.
That is, the square on A C is equivalent to the sum of
the squares on AB and BC.
The great practical importance of this theorem, in the
extent and variety of its applications, and the frequency
of its use in establishing subsequent propositions, ren-
ders it necessary that the student should master it com-
pletely. To secure this end, we present a
52
GEOMETRY.

Second Demonstration,
Let ABC be a triangle
right-angled at B. On the
hypotenuse AC, describe the
square A CUD. From D and
E let fall the perpendiculars
VI and Ed, on AB and AB
produced. Draw Dn and Ca,
making right angles with
Ed.
"We give an outline only
of the demonstration, requiring the pupil to make it
complete.
First Part.—Prove' the four triangles ABC, AbD, DnE,
and EaC, equal to each other.
The proof is as follows: The A's ABC and DnE are
equal, because the angles of the one are equal to the
angles of the other, each to each, and the hypotenuse
AC of the one, is equal to the hypotenuse DE of the
other. In like manner, it may be shown that the A's
AbD and Ea C are equal.
Now, the sum of the three angles about A, is equal to
the sum of the three angles of the A ABC; and if, from
the first sum, we take |_DAC + |_ CAB, and from the
Becond we take [_B + [_ CAB = [_DAC+ |_ CAB, the
remainii.g angles are equal; that is, \_DAb is equal to
|_ ACB; hence the A's ABC and DbA have their angles
equal, each to each; and since AC = DA, the A's are
themselves equal, and the four triangles ABC, AbD,
DnE, and EaC, are equal to each other.
Second. — Prove that the square bDnd is equal to a
»quare on AB. The square BdaCia obviously on BC.
Third.—The area of the whole figure is equal to the
square on AC, and the area of two of the four equal
right-angled triangles.
Also, the area of the whole figure is equal to two other
\
squares, bDnd and daCB, and two of the tour equal tri-
angles, DnE and EaC.
Omitting or subtracting the areas of two of the four
right-angled a's from each of the two expressions foi
the area of the whole figure, there will remain the square
on AC, equal to the sum of the two squares, Dndb and
daCB.
That is, AB + BC = AC.
Hence the theorem; the square described on the hypote-
nuse of a right-angled triangle, etc.
Scholium.—Hence, to find the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle,
extract the square root of the sum of the squares of the two sides about
the right angle.
THEOREM XL.
In any obtuse-angled triangle, the square en the side oppo-
site the obtuse angle is greater than the sum of the squares
on the other two sides, by twice the rectangle contained by
either side about the obtuse angle, and the part of this side
produced to meet the perpendicular drawn to it from, the
vertex of the opposite angle.
Let ABC be any triangle in which
the angle at B is obtuse. Produce
either side about the obtuse angle,
as CB, and from A draw AD perpen-
dicular to CB, meeting it produced
ati>.
It is obvious that CD = CB + BD.
By Th. 36 we have, Vlf = US' + 2CB x BD + JW\
Adding AD' to each member of this equation, we nave
AD' + CD* = CB*1 BD'-r AD* + 2CB x BD.
But, (Th. 30), the first member of the last equation i»
equal to A C*, and

BD' + AD' = AB1
54
GEOMETRY.
Therefore, this equation becomes
~AC* = CJ?+ AB* + 2CB x BD.
That is, the square on A C is equivalent to the sum of
the squares on CB and AB, increased by twice the rect-
angle contained by CB and BD.
Hence the theorem; in any obtuse-angled triangle, 'he
tjuare on the side oppositethe obtuse angle, etc.
Scholium.—Conceive AB to turn about the point A, its intersection
with CD gradually approaching D. The last equation above will be
true, however near this intersection is to D, and when it falls upon D
the triangle becomes right-angled.
In this case the line BD reduces to zero, and the equation becomes
AC* = CB* + An, in which CB and AB are now the base and per-
pendicular of a right-angled triangle. This agrees with Theorem 39,
as it should, since we used the property of the right-angled triangle
established in Theorem 39 to demonstrate this proposition; and in the
equation which expresses a property of the obtuse-angled triangle, we
have introduced a supposition which changes it into one which is
right-angle 1.
THEOREM XLI.
In any triangle, the square on a side opposite an acute angle
is less than the sum of the squares on the other two sides, by
twice the rectangle contained by either of these sides, and the
distance from the vertex of the acute angle to the foot of the
perpendicular let fall on this side, or side produced, from the
vertex of its opposite angle.
Let ABC, either
figure, represent
any triangle; C an
acute angle, CB
the base, and AD
the perpendicular,
which falls either
54

C a
Now we are to prove that
ZB'= CB2 + ACi—2CB x CD.
Prom the first figure we get BD = CD — CB (1)
and from the second Bjp= OB— CD (2)
Either one of these equations will give, (Th. 37),
BD2 = CD2 + CB2 — 2CD x CB.
Adding AD* to each memher and reducing, we obtain,
(Th. 39), AB2 = AC* + CB2 — 2CBx CD, which proved
the proposition. Hence the theorem.
THEOREM XLII.
If in any triangle a line be drawn from any angle to the
middle of the opposite side, twice the square of this line,
together with twice the square of one half the side bisected, will
*>e equivalent to the sum of the squares of the other two sides
Let ABC be a triangle, and
M the middle point of its
base.
Then we are to prove that
2AM2 + 2CM2 = AC2+AB\
Draw AD perpendicular to
the base, and make AD = p,
AC=b, AB = c, CB=2a,
AM = w, and MD = x: then CM = a, CD = a + x, DB
«= a — x.
Now by, (Th. 39), we have the two following equations:
f+(a — x)' ==c» (1)
f + (a + x)' = b* '(2)
tf y addition, 2p* + 2x* + 2a' = 5-^. But f + x' == »»•*
Therefore, 2m' + 2a' = V + c\
This equation is the algebraic enunciation of the
theorem.


THEOREM XLIII.
The two diagonals of any parallelogram bisect each other,
and the sum of their squares is equivalent to the sum of the
tquares of the four sides of the parallelogram.
Let ABCD be any parallelogram,
and AC and BD its diagonals
We are now tc prove,
1st. That AE = EC, and DE =
EB.
2d. That AC2 + BD2 = AB2 + B~C* + CD2 +~AD*,
1. The two triangles ABE and CDE are equal, be-
cause AB= CD, the angle ABE= the alternate angle
CDE, and the vertical angles at E are equal; therefore,
AE, the side opposite the angle ABE, is equal to CE,
the side opposite the equal angle CDE; also EB, the
remaining side of the one A, is equal to ED, the remain-
ing side of the other triangle.
2. As ACD is a triangle whose base, AC, is bisected
in E, we have, by (Th. 42),
2AE2+2ED2 = ~AD2 + DC2 (1)
And as A CB is a triangle whose base, A C, is bisected
in E, we have
2AE2 + 2EB2 =~AB2 + BC2 (2)
liy adding equations (1) and (2), and observing that
EB' = ED2, we have
AAE2 + 4ED2 = ~AD2 +~BrC2 +~AB2 + B~C*
But, four times the square of the half of a line is equiv-
alent to the square of the whole line, (Th. 36, Corollary);
therefore 4AE* = AC', and 4EDi = DB'', and by sub-
stituting these values, we have
AC2 +^D2 =~AB2 +~BC2 + ~DC2 + AD2,
which equation conforms to the enunciation of tbu
theorem.
A C B D
k a
L
i M F
c
THEOREM XLIV.
If a lint be bisected and produced, the rectangle contained
by the whole line and the part produced, together with the
equare of one half the bisected line, will be equivalent to the
square on a line made up of the part produced and one half the
bisected line.
Let AB be any line, bi-
sected in C and produced
to D. On CD describe
the square CF, and on
BD describe the square
BE.
. The sides of the square
BE being produced, the
square GL will be form-
ed. Also, complete the construction of the rectangle
ADEK.
Then we are to prove that the rectangle, AE, and the
aquare, GL, are together equivalent to the square,
CDFG.
The two complementary rectangles, CL and LF, are
equal, (Th. 31). But CL=AH, the line AB being bisected
at C; therefore AL is equal to the sum of the two com-
plementary rectangles of the square CF. To AL add
ths square BE, and the whole rectangle, AE, will be
equal to the two rectangles CE and EM. To each of
these equals add HM, or the square on EL or its equal
CB, and we have rectangle AE + square EM = CI? •
oat rectangle AE= AD x BD, and square HM— CB2.
Hence the theorem, etc.
Scholium. — If -we represent AB by 2a, and BD by x, then AD =
2a + x, and AD X BD = 2ax + x7. But TH? = a'; adding this
equation to the preceding, member to member, 'we get AD X BD +
CB' = a' + 2ax + i' = s + i'. But CD = a + x; hence this equa-
tion is equivalent to the equation AD X DB + CB' = CD , which ii
the algebraic proof of the theorem.
THEOREM XLV.
If a straight line be divided into two equal parts, and aha
into two unequal parts, the rectangle contained by the two un-
equal parts together with the square of the line between the
points of division, will be equivalent to the square on one half
the line.
Let AB be a line bisected in C, and divided into two
unequal parts in D.
We are to prove
that AD x DB + . p , ,c
CD' = AC*, or CB\ A
We see by inspection that AD = AC + CD, and BB
- AC— CB; therefore by (Th. 38), we have
ADx BD = AC2—'CD\
By adding CD' to each of these equals, we obtain
AD x BD +~CB> -"AC*
Ileuce the theorem.
BOOK II.
PROPORTION.
DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS.
The word Proportion, in its common meaning, de-
uotes that general relation or symmetry existing between
the different parts of an object which renders it agree-
able to our taste, and conformable to our ideas of beauty
or utility; but in a mathematical sense,
1. Proportion is the numerical relation which one quan-
tity bears to another of the s&me kind.
As the magnitudes compared must be of the same kind,
proportion in geometry can be only that of a line to a
line, a surface to a surface, an angle to an angle, or a volume
to a volume.
2. Ratio is a term by which the number which meas-
ures the proportion between two magnitudes is desig-
nated, and is the quotient obtained by dividing the one
by the other. Thus, the ratio of A to B is --, or A : B,
in which A is called the antecedent, and B the consequent.
If, therefore, the magnitude A be assumed as the unit ox
standard, this quotient is the numerical value of B ex-
pressed in terms of this unit.
It is to be remarked that this principle lies at the found-
ation of the method of representing quantities by num-
bers. For example-, when we say that a body weighs
twenty-five pounds, it is implied that the weight of this
body has been compared, directly or indirectly, with that
of the standard, one pound. And so of geometrica
magnitudes; when a line, a surface, or a volume is said
to be fifteen linear, superficial, or cubical feet, it is un-
derstood that it has been referred to its particular unit,
and found to contain it fifteen times; that is, fifteen if
the ratio of the unit to the magnitude.
When two magnitudes are referred to the same unit,
the ratio of the numbers expressing them will be the
ratio of the magnitudes themselves.
Thus, if i and B have a common unit, a, which ia
contained in A, m times, and in B, n times, then A = ma
j r> i B na n
and B = na, and — = — = —
A ma m
To illustrate, let the
line A contain the line I ! ~
a six times, and let the
line B contain the same a
line a five times: then
A=6a and B—ba, which B
. B ha 5
glVe A = 6a " 6-
3. A Proportion is a formal statement of the equality
of two ratios.
Thus, if we have the four magnitudes A, B, C and D,
T> J)
isuch that — = -—, this relation is expressed by the pro-
portion A : B :: C: D, or A : B = O: D, the first of
vrhich is read, A is to B as C is to D; and the second,
the ratio of A to B is equal to that of C to D.
4. The Terms of a proportion are the magnitudes, or
'.-dure properly the representatives of the magnitudes
compared.
5. The Extremes of a proport on are its first and fourth
terms.
6. The Means of a proportion are its second and third
terns.
7. A Couplet consists of the two terms of a ratio. The
first and second terms of a proportion are called the
first couplet, and the third and fourth terms are called
the second couplet.
8. The Antecedents of a proportion are its first and
third terms.
9. The Consequents of a proportion are its second and
fourth terms.
In expressing the equality of ratios in the form of s
proportion, we may make the denominators the ante-
cedents, and the numerators the consequents, or the
reverse, without affecting the relation between the magni-
tudes. It is, however, a matter of some little importance
to the beginner to adopt a uniform rule for writing the
terms of the ratios in the proportion; and we shall always,
unless otherwise stated, make the denominators of the
ratios the antecedents, and the numerators the conse-
quents.*
10. Equimultiples of magnitudes are the products arising
from multiplying the magnitudes by the same number.
Thus, the products, Am and Bm, are equimultiples of
A and B.
11. A Mean Proportional between two magnitudes is a
magnitude which will form with the two a proportion,
when it is made a consequent in the first ratio, and an
antecedent in the second. Thus, if we have three mag-
nitudes A, B, and C, such that A : B :: B : C, B is a
mean proportional between A and C.
12. Two magnitudes are reciprocally, or inversely pro-
portional when, in undergoing changes in value, one is
multiplied and the other is divided by the same number.
Thus, if A and B be two magnitudes, so related that when
T>
A becomes mA, B becomes —, A and B are said to be
m
inversely proportional.
* For discussion of the two methods of expressing Ratio, see Dbi
vorsity Algebra.
13. A Proportion is taken inversely when the ante-
cedents are made the consequents and the consequents
the antecedents.
14. A Proportion is taken alternately, or by alternation,
when t^e antecedents are made one couplet and the con-
sequents the other.
15. Mutually Equiangular Polygons have the same num-
ber of angles, those of the one equal to those of the
others, each to each, and the angles like placed.
16. Similar Polygons are such as are mutually equi-
angular, and have the sides about the equal angles, taken
in the same order, proportional.
17. Homologous Angles in similar polygons are those
which are equal and like placed; and
18. The Homologous Sides are those which are like dis-
posed about the homologous angles.
THEOREM I.
if the first and second of four magnitudes are equal, and
also the third and fourth, the four magnitudes may form a
proportion.
Let A, B, C, and D represent four magnitudes, such
that A = B and C = D; we are to prove that A : B ::
C:1).
Now, hy hypothesis, A is equal to B, and their ratio is
therefore 1; and since, by hypothesis, C is equal to D,
their ratio is also 1.
Hence, the ratio of A to B is equal to that of C to D;
and, (by Def. 3),
A : B :: C:1).
Therefore, four magnitudes which are equal, two and
two, constitute a proportion.
THEOREM II.
If four magnitudes constitute a proportion, the product of
the extremes is equal to the product of the means.
Let the four magnitudes A, B, C, and D form the pro-
portion A : B :: C : D; we are to prove that A x D
~BxC.
The ratio of A to B is expressed by -j = r.
The ratio of C to D is expressed by ^ = r.
Hence, (Ax. 1), -j = ^.
Multiplying each of these equals by A x C, we have
Hence the theorem; if four magnitudes are in propor-
tion, etc.
Cor. 1. Conversely; If we have the product of tico mag-
nitudes equal to the product of two other magnitudes, they
will constitute a proportion of which either two may be
made the extremes and the other two the means.
Let the magnitudes By. C = A x D. Dividing both
members of the equation by A X C, we obtain
B_B
A~C-
Henco the proportion A : B :: (7:2).
Cor. 2. If we divide both members of the equation
Ax D = Bx C by A,
we have D = —-.—.
A
That is, to find the fourth term of a proportion, mul-
tiply the second and third terms together and divide the pro-
duct by the first term. This is the Rule of Three of
Arithmetic. , .
This equation shows that any one of the foui terms
can be found by a like process, provided the other three
are given.
THEOREM III.
If three magnitudes are continued proportionals, the product
of the extremes is equal to the square of the mean.
Let A, B, and Crepresent the three magnitudes:
Then A : B :: B : C, (by Def. 11).
But, (by Th. 2), the product of the extremes is equal
to the product of the means; that is, A x C= B*.
Hence the theorem; if three magnitudes, etc.
THEOREM IV.
Equimultiples of any two magnitudes have the same ratio
as the magnitudes themselves; and the magnitudes and their
equimultiples may therefore form a proportion.
Let A and B represent two magnitudes, and mA and
mB their equimultiples'.
Then we are to prove that A : B :: mA • mB.
T>
The ratio of A to B is -i, and of mA U> mB ia
JO.
mB B ., ,.
—r = -j, the same ratio.
mA A
Ilence the theorem; equimultiples of any two vqq**
tudes, etc.
THEOREM V.
If four magnitudes are proportional, they wiU be propor-
tional when taken inversely.
If A : B :: mA : mB, then B : A -t: mB : mA;
For in either case, the product of the extremes equals
that of the means; or the ratio of the couplets is the
same.
Hence the theorem; if four quantities are propor<
tional, etc.
THEOREM VI.
Magnitudes which, are proportional to the same propor
tionals, are proportional to each other.
If A : B — P : Q \ Then we are to prove that
and •«: b = P : Q) A : B = a : b.
v BO
From the 1st proportion, — = -^;
From the 2d " - = -§;
a F
Therefore, by (Ax. 1), -j = -, or A : B = a : b.
j\. a
Hence the theorem; magnitudes which are proportional
to the same proportionals, etc.
Cor. 1. This principle may he extended through any
number of proportionals. v
Cor. 2. If the ratio of an antecedent and consequent of one
proportion is equal to the ratio of an antecedent and conse-
quent of another proportion, the remaining terms of the two
proportions are proportional.
For, if A : B :: C : JD
and M : .N :: P: Q
in which z=„,then^=J;
henoe C : D :: P : Q.
THEOREM VII.
If any number of magnitudes are proportional, any one of
the antecedents will be to its consequent as the sum of all tht
inU'cedents is to the sum of all the consequents.
Let A, B, C, D, U, etc., represent the several magm
tudes whi 3h give the proportions
A : B:
: C : B
A : B:
: E: F
A : B:
: Q-: H, etc., etc
6*
To which we may annex the identical proportion,
A : B :: A : B.
Now, (by Th. 2), these proportions give the following
equations,
A x D = B x O
A x F = B x U
A x ff= B x a
A x B •= B x A, etc. etc.
From which, by addition, there results the equation,
A(B + D + F+H, etc.) = B(A+ C+E+G,etc.)
But the sums B + D + F, etc., and A + C + E, etc.,
may be separately regarded as single magnitudes; there-
fore, (Th. 2, Cor. 1),
A : B :: A+C+E+G, etc. : B + D + F+ H, etc.
Hence the theorem; if any number of magnitudes are pro-
portional, etc.
THEOREM VIII.
If four magnitudes constitute a proportion, the first will be
to the sum of the first and second as the third is to the sum of
the third and fourth.
By hypothesis, A : B :: C: D; then we are to prove
that A : A + B ;: C: C + D.
By the given proportion, — = —.
Adding unity to both members, and reducing them to
the form of a fraction, we have —-— = —-~—. Chang-
ing this equation into its equivalent proportional form,
wo have
A : A + B :: C: C + D.
Hence the theorem , if four magnitudes constitute a pro-
portion, etc.
Cor. If we subtract each member of the equation -j =»
p from unity, and reduce as before, we shall have
A : A — B :: C: C — D.
Hence also; if four magnitudes constitute a proportion,
the first is to the difference between the first and second, as the
third is to the difference between the third and fourth.
THEOREM IX.
If four magnitudes are proportional, the sum of the first and
second is to their difference as the sum of the third and fourth
is to their difference.
Let A, B, C, and D be the four magnitudes which give
the proportion
A : B :: O : D;
we are then to prove that they will also give the propor-
tion
A + B : A —B :: C + D : C — D.
By Th. 8 we have A : A + B = O: C + D.
Also by Corollary, same Th., A : A — B = C: O— J).
!Now, if we change the order of the means in these pro-
portions, which may be done, since the products of ex-
tremes and means remain the same, we shall have
A : O = A + B : C + D.
A : C = A — B : C—D.
Hence, (Th. 6), we have
A + B : C + D = A — B : C—D.
Or, A + B : A — B = C+ D : C— D.
Ilenoe the theorem; if four magnitudes are proportional.
etc.
THEOREM X.
If four magnitudes are proportional, like powers or like
roots of the same magnitudes are also proportional.
If the four magnitudes, A, B, C, and D, give the pro-
portion
x
A : B :: O : D,
we are to prove that
An : B" :: O" : Dn.
7? T)
The hypothesis gives the equation — = —. liaising
A 0
both members of this equation to the nth power, we have
Bn Dn
-j^ = —i, which, expressed in its equivalent proportional
form, gives
A" : Bn :: Cn : Dn.
If n is a whole number, the terms of the given propor-
tion are each raised to a power; but if n is a fraction
having unity for its numerator, and a whole number for its
denominator, like roots of each are taken.
As the terms of the proportion may be first raised to
like powers, and then like roots of the resulting propor-
tion be taken, n may be any number whatever.
Hence the theorem; if four magnitudes, etc.
THEOREM XI.
Jf four magnitudes are proportional, and also four others,
the products which arise from multiplying the first four by the
second four, term by term, are also proportional.
Admitting that A: B
and X: Y
We are to show that AX: B T
C : D,
M : N,
CM: DN.
From the second,
From the first proportion, — ~= -^;
A C
Y^N
X M'
Multiply these equations, member by member, and
BY DN.
AX CM;
Or, AX : BY:: CM: DN.
The same would be true in any number ol proportionu.
Hence the theorem; if four magnitudes are, etc.
THEOREM XII.
If four magnitudes are proportional, and also four others,
the quotients which arise from dividing the first four by th«
second four, term by term, are proportional.
By hypothesis, A : B :: C : D,
and X: T :: M: N.
Multiply extremes and means, AD = CB, (1)
and XN=MY. (2)
Divide (1) by (2), and £ *&=&*§•
Convert these four factors, which make two equal pro-
ducts, into a proportion, and we have
'A* B CD
X: Y': M' N'
By comparing this with the given proportions, we find
it is composed of the quotients of the several terms of
the first proportion, divided by the corresponding terms
of the second.
Hence the theorem; if four magnitudes are proportional,
etc.
THEOREM XIII.
If four magnitudes are proportional, we may multiply the
first couplet, the second couplet, the antecedents or the conse-
juents, or divide them by the same quantity, and the results
will be proportional in every case.
Let the four magnitudes A, B, C, and D give the pro-
(M)rtion A: B :: C: D. By multiplying the extremes
and means wo have
A.D = B.C (1)
Multiply both members of this equation by any num-
ber, as a, and we have
aA.D = aB.C
By Converting this equation into a proportion in four
different ways, we have as follows:
aA : aB :: C : D
A : B :: aC : aD
aA : B :: aC : D
A : aB :: C : aB.
Resuming the original equation, (1), and dividing both
members by a, we have
A.D B.O
a a
This equation may also be converted into a proportion
in four different ways, with the following results:
A
;
JJ
C : D
a
a
C . D
A:
B::
a a
A
?:D
: B::
a
a
. B ..
C:»
A
a
a
Hence the theorem; if four magnitudes are in proportion,
etc.
THEOREM XIV.
If three magnitude* are in proportion, the first is to tht
third as the square of the first is to the square of the second.
Let A, B, and C, be three proportionals.
Then we are to prove that A : C= A': B*
ByW3) AC=B'
Multiply this equation by the numeral value of A, and
we have * A'C=AB'
This equation gives the following proportion:
A\C=A':B'.
Hence the theorem.
Remahk. — It is now proposed to make an application of the pre
coding abstract principles of proportion, in geometrical investigation*
71


THEOREM XV.
If two parallelograms are equal in area, the base and per-
pendicular of either may be made the extremes of a propor-
tion, of which the base and perpendicular of the other are the
means.
Lot ABCD,
and HLNM,
ae two paral-
lelograms hav-
ing equal areas, A
by hypothesis; then we are to prove that
AB : LN :: MK : BF,
in which MK and BF are the
altitudes or perpendiculars of
the parallelograms.
This proportion is true, if
tne product of the extremes
is equal to the product of the means;
that is, if the equation
AB.BF = LN.MK is true.
But AB.BF is the measure of the rectangle ABFE,
by (Definition 54, B. I.), and this rectangle is equal in
area to the parallelogram ABCD, (B. I., Th. 27).
In the same manner, we may prove that LN.MK is
the measure of the parallelogram NLHM. But these
two parallelograms have equal areas by hypothesis.
Therefore, AB.BF = LN.MK is a true equation, and
Th. 2, Cor. 1), gives the proportion
AB : LN:: MK : BF.
Hence the theorem; if two parallelograms are equal in
area, etc.
* THEOREM XVI.
Parallelograms having equal altitudes are to each other at
their bases.
Since parallelograms having equal bases and equal
altitudes are equal in area, however much their angle*

may differ, we can suppose the two parallelograms under
consideration to be mutually equiangular, without in the
least impairing the generality of this theorem. There-
fore, let ABCD
and AEFD be two
parallelograms
having equal alti-
tudes, an d let them
be placed with
their bases on the same line AE, and let the side, ADt
be common. First suppose their bases commensurable,
and that AE being divided into nine equal parts, AB
contains five of those parts.
If, through the points of division, lines be drawn paral-
lel to AD, it is obvious that the whole figure, or the
narallelogram, AEFD, will be divided into nine equal
. arts, and that the parallelogram, ABCD, will be com-
posed of five of those parts.
Therefore, ABCD : AEFD :: AB : AE :: 5 : 9.
Whatever be the whole numbers having to each other
the ratio of the lines AB and AE, the reasoning would
remain the same, and the proportion is established when
the bases are commensurable. But if the. bases are not
to eacb other in the ratio of any two whole numbers, it
retrains still to be shown that
AEFD : ABCD :: AE : AB (1)
If this propor-
tion is not true,
there must be a
line greater or less
than AB, to which
C M

AE will have the A B L K
same ratio that AEFD has to ABCD.
Suppose the fourth proportional greater than AB, m
AK, then,
AEFD : ABCD :: AE : AK (2).
V
If we now divide the line AE into equal parts, each
less than the line BK, one point of division, at least, will
fall between B a!nd K. Let L be such point, and draw
LM parallel to ^C.
This.construction makes AE and AL commensura-
ble; and by what has been already demonstrated, we
have
AEFD : ALMD :: AE : AL. (3)'
Inverting the means in proportions (2) and (3), they
become
AEFD : AE :: ABCD : AK;
and AEFl) : AE :: ALMD: AL.
Hence, (Th. 6),
AB OD : AK :: ALMD : AL.
By inverting the means in this last proportion, we have
ABCD : ALMD :: AK : AL.
But AK is, by hypothesis, greater than AL; hence, if
this proportion is true, ABCD must be greater than
ALMD; but on the contrary it is less. We therefore
conclude that the supposition, that the fourth propor-
tional, AK, is greater than AB, from which alone this
absurd proportion results, is itself absurd.
In a similar manner it can be proved absurd to sup-
pose the fourth proportional less than AB.
Therefore the fourth term of the proportion (1) can be
neither less nor greater than AB; it is then AB itself,
and parallelograms having equal altitudes are to each
other as their bases, whether these bases are commensur-
able or not.
Hence the theorem; Parallelograms having equal alti-
tudes, etc.
Cor. 1. Since a triangle is one half of a parallelogram
having the same base as the triangle and an equal alti-
tude, and as the halves of magnitudes have the same
ratio as their wholes; therefore,
74
GEOMETRY.
Triangles having the same or equal altitudes are to each
other as their bases.
Cor. 2. Any triangle has the same area as a right-
angled triangle having the same base and an equal alti-
tude; and as either side about the right angle of aright-
angled triangle may be taken as the base, it follows that
Two triangles having the same or equal bases are to each
other as their altitudes.
Cor. 3. Since either side of a parallelogram may be
taken as its base, it follows from this theorem that
Parallelograms having equal bases are to each other as their
altitudes.
THEOREM XVII.
If lines are drawn cutting the sides, or the sides produced, of
a triangle proportionally, such secant lines are parallel to the
base of the triangle; and conversely, lines drawn parallel
to the base of a triangle cut the sides, or the sides produced,
proportionally.
Let ABC be any triangle, and
draw the line DE dividing the sides
AB and AC into parts which give
the proportion
AD : DB :: AE : EC.
We are to prove that DE is parallel
to BC.
If DE is not a parallel through
the point D to the line BC, suppose
Dm to be that parallel; and draw the
lines -DC and Bm.
Now, the two triangles ADm and
mDC, have the same altitude, since
they have a common vertex, D, and their bases in the
same line, AC; hence, they are to each other as their
bases, Am and mC, (Th. 16, Cor. 1).

1h
*. That is,
A ADm
: A mDC :: Am:
: mC,
* Also,
A AmD
: A DmB:: AD:
: DB.
But, since Dm is supposed parallel to BC, the trianglea
DBm and DCm have equal areas, because they are on
the same base and between the same parallels, (Th. 28,
B.I).
Therefore the terms of the first couplets in the two
preceding proportions are equal each to each, and conse-
quently the terms of the second couplets are proportional,
(Theorem 6).
That is, AD : DB :: Am : mC
But AD : DB :: AH : EC by hypothesis.
Hence we again have two proportions having the firet
couplets, the same in both, and we therefore have
AE : EC :: Am : mC
By alternation this becomes
AE : Am :: EC : mC
That is, AE is to Am, a greater magnitude is to a less,
as EC is to mC, a less to a greater, which is absurd.
Had we supposed the point m to fall between E and 0,
our conclusion wou'd have been equally absurd; hence
the suppositious which have led to these absurd results
are themselves absurd, and the line drawn through the
point D parallel to BC must intersect AC in the point
E. Therefore the parallel and the line DE are one and
the 3ame line.
Conversely: IfDE be drawn parallel to the base of the
triangle, then will
AD : DB :: AE : EO
For as before,
A ADE : a EDC :: AE : EC
and A DEB : A ADE:: DB : AD
Multiplying the corresponding terms of these propoi
I
tions, and omitting the common factor, a ADE, in the..
first couplet, we have
A DEB : A EDC :: AE X DB : EC x AD.
But the a's DEB and ^Z)C have equal areas, (Th. 28,
B. I); hence AE x DB = EC x AD, which in the form
of a proportion is
AE : EC :: AD : DB
or, AD : DB :: AE : EC
and therefore the line parallel to the base of the triangle,
divides the sides proportionally.
It is evident that the reasoning would remain the same,
had we conceived ADE to be the triangle and the sides
to be produced to the points B and C.
Hence the theorem; if lines are drawn cutting the
sides, etc.
Cor. 1. Because DE is parallel to BC, and intersects
the sides AB and AC, the angles ADE and ABC are
equal. For the same reason the angles AED and ACB
are equal, and the A's ADE and ABC are equiangular.
Let us now take up the triangle ADE, and place it on
ABC; the angle ADE falling on [_ B, the side AD on
the side AB, and the side DE on the side BC
Now, since the angle A is common, and the angles
AED and ACB are equal, the side AE of the A ADE,
in its new position, will be parallel to the side AC of the
A ABC.
The last proportion of this Th. gives (Th. 8 and Th. 5),
AD : AE:: AB : AC
From the above construction we obtain, by a similar
course of reasoning, the proportion
AD : DE :: AB : BC
And in like manner it may be shown that
AE : ED :: AC: CB
That is, the sides about the equal angles of equiangular
triangles, taken in the same order,are proportional, and the
triangles are similar, (Def. 16)
Cor. 2. Two triangles having an angle in one equal to an
angle in the other, and the sides about these equal angles pro-
portional, are equiangular and similar.
For, if the smaller triangle be placed on the larger;
the equal angles of the triangles coinciding, then will
the sides opposite these angles be parallel, and the trian-
gles will therefore be equiangular and similar.
THEOREM XVIII.
If any triangle have its sides respectively proportional to
the like or homologous sides of another triangle, each to each,
then the two triangles will be equiangular and similar.
Let the triangle abc have its sides pro-
portional to the triangle ABC; that is, ao
to AC as cb to CB, and ac to AC aa db to
AB; then we are to prove that
the A's, abc and ABC, are equi-
angular and similar.
On the other side of the base,
AB, and from A, conceive the
angle BAD to be drawn = to the
|_ a; and from the point B,
conceive the angle ABD to be
drawn = to the |_ b. Then the third |_ D must be =
to the third [_ c, (B. I, Th. 12, Cor. 2); and the A ABB
will be equiangular to the A abc by construction.
Therefore, ac : ab = AD : AB
By hypothesis, ac : ab = AC : AB
Hence, AD : AB = A C : AB, (Th. 6).
In this last proportion the consequents are equal;
therefore, the antecedents are equal: that is,
AD = AC
la the same manner we may prove that
BD = OB


But AB is common to the two triangles; therefore
the three jides of the A ABD are respectively equal to
the three sides of the A ABC, and the two a's are equal,
(B. I, Th. 21).
But the A's ABD, and abc, are equiangular hy con-
struction; therefore, the A's, ABC, and abc, are also
equiangular and similar.
Hence the theorem; if any triangle have its sides, etc.
Second Demonstration.
Let ale and ABC be two triangles
whose sides are respectively propor-
tional, then will the triangles be equi-
angular and similar.
That is, La = LA L& = L.£, and
L«=L o.
If the Lc De m fac*
equal to the L C, the tri-
angle abc can be placed
on the triangle ABC, ca
taking the direction of
CA and cb of OB. The
line ab will then divide
the sides CA and CB proportionally, and will therefore
be parallel to AB, and the triangles will be equiangular
and similar, (Th. 17).
But if the [_c be not equal to the L @, then place ic
on AC as before, the point c falling on 0. Under the
present supposition cb will not fall on CB, but will tak*.
another direction, CV, on one side or the other of CB
Make CV equal to cb and draw a V.
Now, the A abc is represented in magnitude and posi-
tion by the A a VC; and if, through the point a, the line
ab be drawn parallel to AB, we shall have
Ca : CA :: ab :AB;
nt by (Hy.) Ca : CA :: aV : AB.

79
Hence, (Th. d),
ab : AB :: aV : AB;
which requires that ab = a V, but (Th. 22, B. 1) ab can
not he equal to aV; hence the last proportion is absurd,
and the supposition that the |_ c is not equal to the [_ (7,
which leads to this result, is also absurd. Therefore,
the [_c is equal to the [_ C, and the triangles are equi-
angular and similar.
Hence the theorem; if any triangle have its sides, eta.
Bl-
Cl-
Dl-
THEOREM XIX.
If four straight lines are in proportion, the rectangle con-
tained by the lines which constitute the extremes, is equivalent
to that contained by those which constitute the means of the
proportion.
Let A, B, C, D, represent the four A'~ ~^
lines; then we are to show, geo-
metrically, that A X J) = B x C.
Place A and B at right angles to each
other, and draw the hypotenuse. Also place
C and D at right angles to each other, and
draw the hypotenuse. Then bring the two
triangles together, so that C shall be at right
angles to B, as represented in the figure.
Now, these two A's have each a R. |_,
and the sides about the equal angles are pro-
portional; that is, A : B :: C: D; hence,
(Th. 17, Cor. 2), the two A's are equiangular, and the
acute angles which meet at the extremities of B and C,
are together equal to one right angle, and the lines B
and 0 are so placed as to make another right angle;
therefore, also, the extremities of A, B, C, and D, are in
one right line, (Th. 3, B. I), and that line is the diag-
A
b
N
BC
\ D
! AD
4
onal of the parallelogram be. By Th. 31, B. I, th«
complementary parallelograms about this diagonal are
equal; but, on< of these parallelograms is B m length,
and C in width, and the other is D in length and A in
width; therefore,
B x C = A < D.
Hence the theorem; if four straight lines are in propor-
tion, etc.
Cor. When B = C, then A X D = B', and B is the
mean proportional between A and D. That is, if three
straight lines are in proportion, the rectangle contained
by the first and third lines is equivalent to the square
described on the second line.
THEOREM XX.
Similar triangles are to one another as the squares of their
homologous sides.
Let ABC and DEF be two
similar triangles, and LC and
MF perpendiculars to the sides
AB and DE respectively. Then
we are to prove that
A ABC: A DEF = AB' : DE2.
By the similarity of the tri-
angles, we have,
AB :DE = LC : MF
But, AB :DE = AB: DE
Hence, AB2 : B~E* = AB X LC: DE x MF.
But, (by Th. 30, B. I), AB x LC is double the area
of the A ABC, and DE x MF is double the area of the
A DEF.
Therefore, A ABC: \DEF::AB x LC :DExMI
And,(Th.6),AvlBC:Ai>£lT= ^B' :BE\
Hence the theorem; similar triangles are to one another,
ttc. - -'*
.- .

81
The followirg illustration will enable the learner fullj
to comprehend this important theorem, and it will also
serve to impress it upon his memory.
Let abc and ABC represent two equiangular triangles.
Suppose the length of
the side ac to be two
units, and the length
of the corresponding
side AC to be three
units.
Now, drawing lines
through the points of
division of the sides ac and A C, parallel to the other sides
of the triangles, we see that the smaller triangle is com-
posed of four equal triangles, while the larger contains
nine such triangles. That is,
the sides of the triangles are as 2 : 3,
and their areas are as 4 : 9 = 2* : 3'.

THEOREM XXI.
Similar polygons may be divided into the same number of
triangles; and to each triangle in one of the polygons there
will be a corresponding triangle in the other polygon, these
triangles being similar and similarly situated.
Lot ABCDE and abode
be two similar polygons.
Now it is obvious thatwti
can divide each polygoc
into as many triangles as
the figure has sides, less
two; and as the polygons have the same number of sides,
the diagonals drawn from the vertices of the homologous
angles will divide them into the same number of tri-
angles

Since the polygons are similar, the angles EAB and tab
are equal, and
EA : AB :: ea : ab.
Hence the two triangles, EAB and eab, having an angle
in the one equal to an angle in the other, and the sides
about these angles proportional, are equiangular and
similar, and the angles ABE and ale are equal.
But the angles ABC and abc are equal, because the
polygons are similar.
Hence, \_ABC— \_ABE = \_abc — \_abe;
that is, [_EBC=[_ebo.
The triangles, EAB and eab, being similar, their ho-
mologous sides give the proportion,
AB : BE :: ab : be; (1)
and since the polygons are similar, the sides about the
equal angles B and b are proportional, and we have
AB : BC :: ab : be;
or, BC : AB :: be : ab. (2)
Multiplying proportions (1) and (2), term by term, and
omitting in the result the factor AB common to the terms
of the first couplet, and the factor ab common to the
terms of the second, we have
BC : BE :: be : be.
Hence the A's EBC and ebc are equiangular and similar,
Rnd thus we may compare all of the triangles of one
polygon with those like placed in the other.
Hence the theorem; similar polygons may be divided, etc
THEOREM XXII.
The perimeters of similar polygons are to one another as
their homologous sides; and their areas are to one another as
'he squares of their homologous sides.
Let ABCDE and abode be two similar polygons; then
we are to prove that AB is to the sum of all the sides
83

of the polygon A B CD, as
ab is to the sum of all
the sides of the polygon
abed.
We have the identical
proportion
AB : ab :: AB : ab;
and since the polygons are similar, we may write the
following:
AB : ab :: BC : be
AB : ab :: CD : cd
AB : ab :: DJE : de, etc. etc.
Hence, (Th. 7),
AB : ab :: AB+BC+CD+DE, etc.: ab+bc+ed+de, etc.
Therefore, the perimeters of similar polygons are to
one another as their homologous sides. This is the first
part of the theorem.
Since the polygons are similar, the triangles EAB, eab,
are similar, and if the triangle EAB is a part expressed
by the traction -, of the polygon to which it belongs,
n
the triangle eab is a like part of the other polygon.
Therefore, EAB : eab :: ABCDEA : abedea.
But, (Th. 20), EAB : eab :: 'AB* : ab2.
Therefore, (Th. 6),
ABCDEA : abedea :: AB2 : ah\
Therefore, the similar polygons are to one another as
the squares on their homologous sides. This is the
second part of the theorem.
Hence the theorem; the perimeters of similar polygon*
are to one another, etc.
THEOREM XXIII
Two triangles which have an angle in the one equal tc an
angle in the other, are to each other as the rectangle of th«
sides about the equal angles
34
QBOMETRY.


Let ABO and def be two trianglea having the angles
A and d equal. It is to
be proved that the areas
ABC smd def are to each
other as AB.AC is to
de.df.
Conceive the triangle
def placed on the tri-
angle ABC, so that d
shall fall on A, and de on
A B; then df will fall on
AC, because the [__'s A
and d are equal. On AB, lay off Ae, equal to de; and
on AC, lay off Af equal to df, and draw ef. The tri-
angle Aef will then be equal to the triangle def. . Join
B and/.
Now, as triangles having the same altitude are to each
other as their bases, (Th. 16, Cor. 1), we have
Aef :ABf :: Ae : AB
also, ABf : ABC :: Af : AC
Multiplying these proportions together, term by term,
omitting from the result ABf, a factor common to the
terms of the first couplet, we have
Aef : ABC :: Ae.Af : AB. AC
But Aef is equal to def, Ae to de, and Af to df; therefore,
def : ABC :: de . df : AB . AC
Hence the theorem; two triangles which have an angle, etc.
Scholium. — If we suppose that
AB : AC :: de : df,
Iho tw> triangles will be similar; and if -we multiply the terms ot the
first couplet of this proportion by AC, and the terms of the second
rtmplet by df, we shall have
AB .AC : AC* :: de . df: df*
a. AB. AC : de . df :: AC* :dj*
Comparing this with the last proportion in this theorem, and to have,
(Th.6); _
def: ABC:: df : AC*
Remark. — This scholium is therefore another demonstration of
Theorem 20, and hence that theorem need not necessarily have been
made a distinct proposition. We require no stronger proof of the cer-
tainty of geometrical truth, than the fact that, however different the
processes by which we arrive at these truths, we are never led into
inconsistencies; but whenever our conclusions can be compared, they
will harmonize with each other completely, provided our premises are
true and our reasoning logical.
It is hoped that the student will lose no opportunity to exercise
his powers, and test his skill and knowledge, in seeking original
demonstrations of theorems, and in deducing consequences and
conclusions from those already established.
THEOREM XXIV.
If the vertical angle of a triangle be bisected, the bisecting
line will cut the base into segments proportional to the adja-
cent sides of the triangle. - •
Let ABC be any triangle,
and the vertical angle, C, be bi-
sected by the straight line CD.
Then we are to prove that
AD : DB = AC: CB.
Produce AC to E, making
CM = CB, and draw EB. The exterior angle A OB, of
the A CEB, is equal to the two angles E, and CBE\
but the angle E = CBE, because CB = CE, and the tri-
angle is isosceles; therefore the angle ACD, the half of
the angle A CB, is equal to the angle E, and DC and BE
are parallel, (Cor. 2, Th. 7,B. I).
Now, as ABE is a triangle, and CD is parallel to BE,
we have AD : DB = AC: CE or OB, (Th. 17).
Hence ihe theorem; if the vertical angle of a triangle
be bisected, etc.

8

THEOREM XXV.
If from the right angle of a right-angled triangle, a per
pendicular is drawn to the hypotenuse;
1. The perpendvrular divides the triangle into two similar
triangles, each of which is similar to the whole triangle.
2. The perpendicular is a mean proportional between the
tegmtnts of the hypotenuse.
3. The segments of the hypotenuse are in proportion to the
squares on the adjacent sides of the triangle.
4. The sum of the squares on the two sides is equivalent ta
the square on the hypotenuse.
Let BAC be a triangle, right an-
gled at A; and draw AD perpendicu-
lar to BC.
1. The two A's, ABC and ABD, - K t\ -ft
have the common angle, B, and the right angle BAC **
the right angle BDA; therefore, the third |_ 's are equal,
and the two a's are similar by Th. 17, Cor. 1. In the
same manner we prove the A ADC similar to the A
ABC; and the two triangles, ABB, ADC, being similar
to the same A ABC, are similar to each other.
2. As similar triangles have the sides about the equal
angles proportional, (Def. 16), we have
BD : AD :: AD : CD;
or, the perpendicular is a mean proportional between the seg-
ments of the hypotenuse.
3. Again, BC : BA :: BA : BD
hence, BA' = BC.BD (1)
also, BCj_ CA :: CA : CD
hence, CA' = BC.CD (2)
Dividing Eq. (1) by Eq. (2), member Jbj member, w»
obtain
BlC BD
~CA' = CD
which, in the form of a proportion, is
CA* :~BA* :: CD : BD;
that is, the segments of the hypotenuse are proportional to the
squares on the adjacent sides.
4. By the addition of (1) and (2), we have
BA* + CA' = BC(BD 4 CD) = BIT;
that is, the sum of the squares on the sides about the right
angle is equivalent to the square on the hypotenuse. .This 18
another demonstration of Theorem 39, B. I.
Hence the theorem , if from the right angle of a right-
angled triangle, etc.
M
GEOMETRY.
BOOK III.
OF THE CIRCLE, AND THE INVESTIGATION OF THBO
RExMS DEPENDENT ON ITS PROPERTIES.
DEFINITIONS.
L * A Curved Line is one whose consecutive parts, how-
ever small, do not lie in the same direction.
2. A Circle is a plane figure bounded by one uniformly
curved line, all of the points of which are at the same
distance from a certain point within, called the center
3. The Circumference of a cir-
cle is the curved line that
bounds it.
4. The Diameter of a circle
is a line passing through the
center, and terminating at both
extremities in the circumfer-
ence. Thus, in the figure, C is
the center of the circle, the
curved line A GrBD is the cir-
cumference, and AB is a diameter.
5. The Radius of a circle is a line extending from the
center to any point in the circumference. Thus, CD ia
a radius of the circle.
6. An Arc of a circle is any portion of the circum-
ference.
* The first six of the above definitions have been before given among
the general definitions of Geometry, but it was deemed advisable to
reinsert them here.

7. A Chord of a circle is the line connecting the ex-
tremities of an arc.
8. A Segment of a circle is the portion of the circle on
either side of a chord.
Thus, in the last figure, EGF is an arc, and EF is a
chord of the circle, and the spaces bounded by the chord
FF, and the two arcs EOF and EDF, into which it
divides the circumference, are segments.
9. A Tangent to a circle is a line which, meeting the
circumference at any point, will not cut it on being
produced. The point in which the tangent meets the
circumference is called the point of tangency.
10. A Secant to a circle is a line which meets the cir-
cumference in two points, and lies a part within and a
part without the circumference.
11. A Sector of a circle is a portion of the circle included
between any two radii and their intercepted arc.
Thus, in the last figure, the line HL, which meets the
circumference at the point D, but does not cut it, is a
tangent, D being the point of tangency; and the line
MN, which meets the circumference at the points P and
Q, and lies a portion within and a portion without the
circle, is a secant. The area bounded by the arc BD, and
the two radii CB, CD, is a sector of the circle.
12. A Circumscribed Polygon is
one all of whose sides are tangent
to the circumference of the circle;
and conversely, the circle is then
said to be inscribed in the polygon.
13. An Inscribed Polygon is one
the vertices of whose angles are
all found in the circumference
of the circle; and conversely, the circle is then said to be
circumscribed about the polygon.
14. A Regular Polygon is one which is both equiangu-
lar and equilateral.

8*
90
GEOMETRY.

The last three definitions are illustrated by the last
figure.
THEOREM I.
Any radius perpendicular to a chord, bisects the chord, and
also the arc of the chord.
Let AB be a chord, C the center of
the circle, and CE a radius perpen-
dicular to AB; then we are to prove
that AD = BD, and AE = EB.
Since C is the center of the circle,
AC' = BC, CD is common to the two
A's ACD and BCD, and the angles
at D are right angles; therefore the two A's ADC and
BDC are equal, and AD = DB, which proves the first
part of the theorem.
Now, as AD = DB, and DE is common to the two
spaces, ADE and BDE, and the angles at D are right
angles, if we conceive the sector CBE turned over and
placed on CAE, CE retaining its position, the point B
will fall on the point A, because AD = BD and AC —
BC; then the arc BE will fall on the arc AE; otherwise
there would be points in one or the other arc unequally
distant from the center, which is impossible; therefore,
the arc AE = the arc EB, which proves the second part
of the theorem.
Hence the theorem.
Cor. The center of the circle, the middle point ot
the chord AB, and of the subtended arc AEB, are
three points in the same straight line perpendicular to
the chord at its middle point. Now as but one perpen-
dicular can be drawn to a line from a given point in that
line, it follows:
1st. That the radius drawn to the middle point oi
any arc bisects, and is perpendicular to, the chord ol
the arc.
91
2d. That the perpendicular to the ctord at its middle
point passes through the center of the circle and the
middle of the subtended arc.

THEOREM II
Equal migles at the center of a circle are subtended 5j
equal chords.
Let the angle A CE = the angle
ECB; then the two isosceles triangles,
ACE, and'ECB, are equal in all re-
spects, and AE = EB.
Hence the theorem.
THEOREM III.
In the same circle, or in equal circles, equal chords art
equally distant from the center.
Let AB and EF be equal chords,
and C tho center of the circle. From
C, draw CO- and CH, perpendicular
to the respective chords. These
perpendiculars will bisect the chords,
(Th. 1), and we shall have AG = EH.
We are now to prove that CG = CE.
Since the A'a ECE and ACG are right-angled, we
have, (Th. 39, B. I),
EH* + "#£' =~EC"
and, A~CF +0C*= ~AC\
By subtracting these equations, member from mem-
ber, we find that
EH' — AG' + HC' — ~GC' = ~EC' — AC* (1)
But the chords are equal by hypothesis, hence then
halves, EH and AG, are equal; also EC = AC, being
radii of the circle. Wherefore,

EH* — AG* = 0
and, ~W — ~AC* = 0.
These values in Equation (1) reduce it to
fix? -ad2 = o
or, HC2=GC2
and, HC = GC.
Hence the theorem.
Cor. Under all circumstances we have
EH2 + HC2 = AG2 + G~b\
because the sum of the squares in either member of the
equation is equivalent to the square of the radius of the
circle.
Now,, if we suppose HC greater than GC, then will
HC2 be greater than GC2. Let the difference of these
squares be represented by d.
Subtracting GO2 from both members of the above
equation, we have
EH2+d=AG2
whence, ~AG2>EH2, and AG> EH.
Therefore, AB, the double of AG, is greater than EF,
the double of EH; that is, of two chords in the same or
equal circles, the one nearer the center is the greater.
The equation, EH2 + HC2 = AG2 + ~GC2, being true,
whatever be the position of the chords, we may suppose
GC to have any value between 0 and AC, the radiue of
the circle.
When GC becomes zero, the equation reduces to
EH2 + HC2 = AG2 = B';
that is, under this supposition, AG coincides with AC,
and AB becomes the diameter of the circle, the greatest
thord that can be drawn in it.

THEOREM IV
A line tangent to the circumference of a circle is at right
ingles with the radius drawn to the point of contact.
Let A C be a line tangent to the circle
at the point B, and draw the radius, EB,
and the lines, AE and CE.
Now, we are to prove that EB is per-
pendicular to AC. Because B is the
only point in the line A C which meets
the circle, (Def. 9, B. Ill), any other line,
as AE or CE, must be greater than EB;
therefore, EB is the shortest line that can be drawn from
the point E to the line AC; and EB is the perpendicu-
lar to AC, (Th. 23, B. I).
Hence the theorem.
THEOREM V.
In the same circle, or in equal circles, equal chords subtend
or stand on equal portions of the circumference.
Conceive two equal circles, and two equal chords drawn
within them- Then, conceive one circle taken up and
placed upon the other, center upon center, in such a po-
sition that the two equal chords will fall on, and exactly
"coincide with, each other; the circles must also coin-
ails, because they are equal; and the two arcs of the two
uircles on either side of the equal chords must also coin-
cide, or the circles could not coincide; and magnitudes
which coincide, or exactly fill the same space, are in all
respects equal, (Ax. 10).
Hence the theorem.

THEOREM VI.
Through three given points, not in the same straight line^
one circumference can be made to pass, and but one.
Let A, B, and C be three given
points, not in the same straight
line, and draw the lines AB and
BC. If a circumference is made
to pass through the two points A
and B, the line AB will be a chord
to such a circle; and if a chord is
bisected by a line at right angles,
the bisecting line will pass through
the center of the circle, (Cor., Th. 1); therefore, if wo
bisect the line AB, and draw DF, perpendicular to AB,
at the point of bisection, any circumference that can
pass through the points, A and B, must have its center
Bomewhere in the line DF. And if we draw EG at
right angles to BC at its middle point, any circumference
that can pass through the points B and C must have its
center somewhere in the line EG. Now, if the two lines,
DF and EG, meet in a common point, that point will be
a center, about which a circumference can be drawn to
pass through the three points, A, B, and C, and DF and
EG will meet in every case, unless they are parallel; but
they are not parallel, for if they were, it would follow
(Th. 5, B. I) that, since DF is intersected at right angles
by the line AB, it must also be intersected at right angles
by the line BC, having a direction different from that of
AB; which is impossible, (Th. 7, B. I).
Therefore the two lines will meet; and, with the point
H, at which they meet, as a center, and HB = HA = HQ
as a radius, one circumference, and but one, can be made
to pass through the three given points.
Hence the theorem.

THEOREM VII
If two tircles touch each other, either internally or exter-
nally, the two centers and the point of contact will be in on*
right line.
Let two circles touch each
other intern ally, as represented
at A, and conceive AB to be a
tangent at the common point A.
Now, if a line, perpendicular to
AB, be drawn from the point
A, it must pass through the
center of eacb circle, (Th. 4);
and as but one perpendicular, can be drawn to a line at a
given point in it, A, C, and D, the point of contact and
the two centers must be in one and the same line.
Next, let two circles touch each other externally, and
from the point of contact conceive the common tangent,
AB, to be drawn.
Then a line, AC, perpendicular to AB, will pass
through the center of one circle, (Th. 4), and a per-
pendicular, AD, from the same point, A, will pass
through the center of the other circle; hence, BAC and
BAD are together equal to two rigbt angles; therefore
CAD is one continued straight line, (Th. 3, B. I).
Cor. When two circles touch each other internally, the
distance between their centers is equal to the difference
of their radii; and when they touch each other extern-
ally, the distance between their centers is equal to tho
snm of their radii.
THEOREM VIII.
An angle at the circumference of any circle is measured by
one half the arj on which it stands.
In this work it is taken as an axiom that any angle
whose vertex is at the center of a circle, is measured by
96
GEOMETRY.

the arc on which it stands; and we now proceed to prove
that when the arcs are equal, the angle at the circumference
is equal to one half the angle at the center.
Let ACBbe an angle at the center,
and D an angle at the circumference,
and at first suppose D in a line with
AC. We are now to prove that the
angle ACB is double the angle D.
The A DCB is an isosceles triangle,
because CD=CB; and its exterior
angle, ACB, is equal to the two interior angles, D, and
CBD, (Th. 12, B. I), and since these two angles are equal
to each other, the angle ACB is double the angle at
T). But ACB is measured by the arc AB; therefore the
angle D is measured by one half the arc AB.
Next, suppose D not in a line with
A C, but at any point in the ci rcum-
ference, except on AB; produce DC
to E.
Now, by the first part of this
theorem,
the angle ECB = 2EDB,
also, ECA = 2EDA,
by subtraction, ACB = 2ADB.
But ACB is measured by the arc AB; therefore ABB
or the angle D, is measured by one half of the same arc
Hence the theorem.

THEOREM IX.
An angle in a semicircle is a right angle; an angle m a
tegment greater than a semicircle is less than a right angle;
and an angle in a segment less than a semicircle is greater
than a right angle.
If the angle ACB is in a semicircle, the opposite seg-
ment, ADB, on which it stands, is also a semicircle; and
'.he angle ACB is measured by one half the arc ADB
»i

(Th. 8); that is, one talf of 180°, or 90°, which is the
measure of a right angle.
If the angle ACB is in a segment
greater than a semicircle, then the
opposite segment is less than a semi-
circle, and the measure of the angle
is less thar one half of 180°, or less
than a right angle. If the angle
ACB is in a Segment less than a
semicircle, then the opposite segment, ADB, on which
the angle stands, is greater than a semicircle, and its half
is greater than 90°; and, consequently, the angle is
greater than a right angle.
Hence the theorem.
Cor. Angles at the circumference,
and standing on the same arc of a
circle, are equal to one another; for
all angles, as BAC, BDC, BBC, are
equal, because each is measured by
one half of the arc BC. Also, if the
angle BEC is equal to CEG, then
the arcs BC and CG are equal, be-
cause their halves are the measures of equal angles.
THEOREM X.
The sum of two opposite angles of any quadrilateral in-
ncribed in a circle, is equal to tivo right angles.
Let ACBD represent any quadri-
lateral inscribed in a circle. The
angle ACB has for its measure, one
half of the arc ADB, and the angle
ADB has for its measure, one half of
the arj A CB; therefore, by addition,
the sum of the two opposite angles at
C and D, are together measured by
one half of the whole circumference, or by 180 degrees,
= two right angles. Hence the theorem


9
98
GEOMETRf.
THEOREM XI.
An angle formed by a tangent and a chord is mea$ured b$
one half of the intercepted arc.
Let AB be a tangent, and AD a
chord, and A the point of contact;
then we are to prove that the angle
BAD is measured by one half of the
are AED.
From A draw the radius AC; and
fiom the center, C, draw CE per-
pendicular to AD.
The |_ BAD + \_DAC = 90°, (Th. 4).
Also, [_C+\__DAC = 90°, (Cor. 4, Th. 12, B. 1).
Therefore, by subtraction, BAD — C = 0;
by transposition, the angle BAD = C.
But the angle C, at the center of the circle, is measured
by the arc AE, the half of AED; therefore, the equal
angle, BAD, is also measured by the arc AE, the half
of AED.
Hence the theorem.

THEOREM XII.
An angle formed by a tangent and a chord, is equal to an
angle in the opposite segment of the circle.
Let AB be a tangent, and AD a
chord, and from the point of contact,
A, draw any angles, as ACD, and
AED, in the segments. Then we are
to prove that |_ BAD = |_ ACD, and
L_ GAD = l_ AED.
By Th. 11, the angle BAD is meas-
ured by one half the arc AED; and
as the angle ACD is measured by one half of the same
arc, (Th. 8), we have |_ BAD = L ACD

Again, as A EDC is a quadrilateral, inscribed in a
circle, the sum of the opposite angles,
ACD + AED = 2 right angles. (Th. 10).
Also, the sum of the angles
BAD + DAG = 2 right angles. (Th. 1, B. 1).
By subtraction (and observing that BAD has just been
proved equal to ACD), we have,
AED — DAG = 0.
Or, by transposition, AED = DAG.
Hence the theorem.
THEOREM XIII.
Arcs of the circumference of a circle intercepted by paral-
lel chords, or by a tangent and a parallel chord, are equal.
Let AB and CD be parallel chords,
and draw the diagonal, AD; now, be-
cause AB and CD are parallel, the
angle DAB = the angle ADC{Th. 6, B.
I); but the angle DAB has for its meas-
ure, one half of the arc BD; and the
angle ADC has for its measure, one half of the arc AC,
(Th. 8); and because the angles are equal, the arcs are
equal; that is, the arc BD = the arc AC.
Next, let EF be a tangent, parallel to a chord, CD, and
from the point of contact, G, draw GD.
Since EF and CD are parallel, the angle CDG ,". the
angle DGF. But the angle CDG has for its measure,
one-half of the arc CG, (Th. 8); and the angle DGF
has for its measure, one half of the arc GD, (Th. 11);
therefore, these measures of equals must be equal; that
is, the arc CG—the arc GD.
Hence, the theorem.

THEOREM XIV.

When two chords intersect each other within a circle, tht
angle thus formed is measured by one half the sum of the two
intercepted arcs.
Let AB and CD intersect each
other within the circle, forming the
two angles, E and E', with their
equal vertica" angles.
Then, we are to prove that the
angle E is measured by one half the
sum of the arcs AC and BD; and
the angle E' is measured by one half the sum of the
arcs AD and CB.
First, draw AF parallel to CD, and FD will be equal
to A C, (Th. 13); then, by reason of the parallels, [_ BAF
=^ |_ E. But the angle BAF is measured by one half
of the arc BDF; that is, one half of the arc BD plus one
half of the arc AC.
Now, as the sum of the angles E and E' is equal to
two right angles, that sum is measured by one half the
whole circumference.
But the angle E, alone, as we have just proved, is
measured by one half the sum of the arcs BD and AC;
therefore, the other angle, E', is measured by one half
the sum of the other parts of the circumference,
AD + CB.
Hence the theorem.
THEOREM XV.
When two secants intersect, or meet each other without a
rircle, the angle thus formed is measured by one half the dif
ference of the intercepted ares.
Ill
Let BE and BE be two secants
meeting at E; and draw AF parallel to
CD. Then, by reason of the parallels,
the angle E, made by the intersection
of the two secants, is equal to the
angle BAF. But the angle BAF is
measured by one half the arc BF;
that is, by one half the difference be-
tween the arcs BD and AC.
Hence the theorem.

THEOREM XVI.
The angle formed by a secant and a tangent is measured
by one half the difference of the intercepted arcs.
Let BC be a secant, and CD a tan-
gent, meeting at C. We are to prove
that the angle formed at C, is meas-
ured by one half the difference of the
arcs BD and DA.
From A, draw AE parallel to CD;
then the arc AD = the arc DE;
BD — DE = BE; and the L BAE =
\_C. But the angleBAE is measured
by one half the arc BE, (Th. 8,) that is, by one half
the difference between the arcs BD and AD; there-
fore, the equal angle, 0, is measured by one half the
arc BE.
Hence the theorem.

THEOREM XVII.
When two chords intersect each other in a circle, the rect .
angle contained by the segments of the one, will be equivahri
to the rectangle ccntained by the segments of the other.
102
GEOMETRY.

Let AB and CD be two chords inter-
secting each other in E. Then we are
to prove that the rectangle AE x EB =
the rectangle CE x ED.
Draw the lines AD and CB, forming
the two triangles AED and CEB. The
angles B and D are equal, because they
»re each measured by one half the arc, AC. Also the
angles A and C are equal, because each is measured by
one half the arc, DB; and l_ AED = |_ CEB, because
they are vertical angles; hence, the triangles, AED and
CEB, are equiangular and similar. But equiangular tri-
angles have their sides about the equal angles propor-
tional, (Cor. 1, Th. 17, B. II); therefore, AE and ED,
about the angle E, are proportional to CE and EB, about
the same or equal angle.
That is, AE : ED :: CE : EB;
Or, (Th. 19, B. II), AE x EB = CE x ED.
Hence the theorem.
Cor. When one chord is a diameter, and the other at rignt
angles to it, the rectangle contained, by the segments of the
diameter is equal to the square of one half the other chord;
or one half of the bisected chord is a mean proportional 6«-
tween the segments of the diameter.
For, ADxDB = FDx DE. But, if
AB passes through the center, C, at
right angles to FE, then FD = DE
(Th. 1); and in the place of FD, write
its equal, DE, in the last equation, and
we have

AD xDB = DW,
or, (Th. 3, B II), AD : DE :: DE : DB.
Put, DE = x, CD == y, and CE = R, the radius of the
circle.
10S
Then AD = R — y, and DB = R + y. With this notat-
ion,
AD x DB = DE*
becomes), {R —y)[R + y) = x*
R, — y* = x*
R' = x' + yl
or,
or,
That is, the square of the hypotenuse of the right-angle
trianjle, DCE, is equal to the sum of the squares of the otlter
two sides.
THEOREM XVIII.
If from a point without a circle, a tangent line be drawn te
the circumference, and also any secant line terminating in the
concave arc, the square of the tangent will be equivalent to ttr.
rectangle contained by the whole secant and its external seg
ment.
Let A be a point without the
circle DEQ, and let AD be a
tangent and AE any secant line.
Then we are to prove that
ACx AE = AD\
In the two triangles, ADE and
ADC, the angles ADC and AED
are equal, since each is meas-
ured by one half of the same
arc, DC; the angle A is com-
mon to the two triangles; their
third angles are therefore equal, and the triangles are
equiangular and similar.
Their homologous sides give the proportion
AE : AD :: AD : AC
whence, AE x AC = AD2
Hence the theorem.
Cor. If AE and AE are two secant lines drawn from
tl>e same point without the circumference, we shall hav«

ACx AE = ^AD2
and, ABxAF-=AD*
hence, AC x AE = AB X AF,
which, in the form of a proportion, gives
AC : AF ::AB : AE.
That is, the secants are reciprocally proportional to their e*
ternal segments.
ScnonuM. — By means of this theorem we can determine the diam-
eter of a circle, when we know the length of a tangent drawn from a
point without, and the external segment of the secant, which, drawn
from the same point, passes through the center of the circle.
Let Am be a secant passing through the center, and
Buppose the tangent AD to be 20, and the external seg-
ment, An, of the secant to be 2. Then, if D denote the
diameter, we shall have
Am = 2 + D,
whence, Am x An = 2 (2 + D) = 4 + 2D = (20)' = 400,
2D = 396, and D = 198.
If An, the height of a mountain on the earth, and AD,
the distance of the visible sea horizon, be given, we may
determine the diameter of the earth.
For example; the perpendicular height of a mountain
on the island of Teneriffe is about 3 miles, and its summit
can be seen from ships when they are known to be 154
or 155 miles distant; what then is the diameter of the
earth?
Designate, as before, the diameter by D. Thee im ».
8 + D, and Am x An = 9 -f 32>. AD = 154. 5; hence,
9 + SD = (154. 5)' = 23870. 25, from which we find D =
7953.75, which differs but little from the true diametei
of the earth.
One source of error, in this mode of computing the
diameter of the earth, is atn ospheric refraction, the e-s
planation of which does not belong here.

THEOREM XIX.
If a circle be described about a triangle, the rectangle con-
tained by two sides of the triangle is equivalent to the rectangle
contained by the perpendicular let fall on the third side, and
ths diameter of the circumscribing circle.
Let ABC be a triangle, AC and
QB, the side3, OD the perpendicular
iet fall on the base AB, and CE the
diameter of the circumscribing circle.
Then we are to prove that
ACx CB= CEx CD.
The two A's, ACD and CEB, are
equiangular, because \_A=\_E, both
being measured by the half of the arc CB; also, ABO is
a right angle, and is equal to 0BE, an angle in a semi-
circle, and therefore a right angle; hence, the third angle,
ACD=[_BCE, (Th. 12, Cor. 2,B. I). Therefore, (Cor. 1,
Th. 17, B. II),
AC: CD :: CE: CB
and, ACx BC= CE X CD.
Hence the theorem; if a circle, etc.
Cor. The continued product of three sides of a triangle is
equal to twice the area of the triangle into the diameter of it*
circumscribing circle.
Multiplying both members of the last equation by AB,
we have,
AC x BC x AB = CE x (AB x CD).
But CE is the diameter of the circle, and (AB X CD)
= twice the area of the triangle;
Therefore, AC x CB x AB= diameter multiplied
dv twice the area of the triangle

THEOREM Xi.
The square of a line bisecting any angle of a triangle, t»
gether with the rectangle of the segments into which it cuts the
opposite side, is equivalent to the rectangle of the two side*
including the bisected angle.
Let ABC be a triangle, and CD a
\i-iC bisecting the angle C. Then
we arc to prove that
CD' + (AD x DB) = ACx CB.
The two A's, ACE and CDB, are
equiangular, because the angles E
and B are equal, both being in the
same segment, and the [_ ACE = BCD, by hypothesis.
Therefore, (Th. 17, Cor. 1, B. II),
AC : CE:: CD : CB.
But it is obvious that CE = CD + DE, and by substi-
tuting this value of CE, in the proportion, we have,
AC: CD + DE :: CD : CB.
By multiplying extremes and means,
CD* + (DE x CD) *=*ACx CB.
But by (Th. 17),
DE x CD = AD x DB,
and substituting, we have,
CD* + (AD x DB) - AC x CB.
llence the theorem.'
THEOREM XXI.
The rectangle contained by the two diagonals of any quad-
r&iiteral inscribed in a circle, is equivalent to the sum. of the
twe rectangles contained by the opposite sides of the quadri-
lateral.
Let ABCD be a quadrilateral inscribed in a circle;
then wo are to prove that
ACx BD = (AB x DC) + (AD x BC).
From C, draw CE, making the angle DCE equal to

m
the angle A CB; and as the angle BAC is equal to tha
angle CDE, both being in the same seg-
ment, therefore, the two triangles, DEC
and ABC, are equiangular, and we have
(Th. 17, Cor. 1, B. II),
AB : AC :: DE : DC (1)
The two A's, ADC and BEC, are
equiangular; for the \_DAC= \_EBC,
both being in the same segment; and the |_ DCA ™
\_ECB, for DCE = BCA; to each of these add the ar gle
EGA, and DCA == ECB; therefore, (Th. 17, Cor. 1,
B.H),
AD : AC :: BE : BC (2).
By multiplying the extremes and means in proportions
(!) and (2), and adding the resulting equations, we have,
(AB x DC) + (AD x BC) = (BE + BE) x AC
But, DE + BE = .BD; therefore,
(AB x DC) + (AD x BC) = AC x BB.
Cor. "Wbon two adjacent sides of the quadrilateral are
equal, as AB and BC, then the resulting equation is,
(AB x BC) + (AB x AD) = AC x BD;
or, AB x (DC + AD) = AC x BD;
or, AB : AC :: BD : DC+ AD.
That is, one of the two equal sides of the quadrilateral
is to the adjoining diagonal, as the transverse diagonal is to
the sum of the two unequal sides.
THEOREM XXII.
If two chords intersect each other at right angles in a cir-
tte, the sum of the squares of the four segments thus formed
is equivalent to the square of the diameter of the circle.
Let AB and CD bo two chords, intersecting eacn
other at right angles. Draw BF parallel to ED, and
draw DF and AF. Now, we are to prove that
Alf +~W +~EO' r ED* -~AF\
GEOMETRY.

As BF is parallel to ED, ABF is a
right augle, and therefore AFis a diam-
eter, (Th. 9). Also, hecause BF is
parallel to CD, CB = DF, (Th. 13).
Because CEB is a right angle,
W + EB'=CB' = DF*.
Because AED is a right angle,
AE* +^D' = AF.
A.d<ling these two equations, we have,
~Q~ff + EB' + AE* +~E1? = DF' + AW.
But, as AF u a diameter, and ADF a right angle,
(Th.9), _
DF + AD2 = AF';
therefore, CE* + EB* + AF? + ED* = ~AF.
Hence the theorem.
Scholium.— If two chords intersect each other at right angles, in a
circle, and their opposite extremities be joined, the two chords thug
formed may make two sides of a right-angled triangle, of which the
diameter of the circle is the hypotenuse.
For, AD is one of these chords, and CB is the other; and we have
ghown that CB = DF; and AD and DF are two sides of a right-
angled triangle, of which AF is the hypotenuse; therefore, AD and
CB may be considered the two sides of a right-angled triangle, and
AF its hypotenuse.
THEOREM XXIII.
If two secants intersect each other at right angles, the sum
of theii squares, increased by the sum of the squares of th*
two segments without the circle, will be equivalent to the squart
\f the diameter of the circle.
Let AE and ED be two secants in-
tersecting at right angles at the point
E. From B, draw BF parallel to CD,
and draw AF and AD. Now we are to
prove that
EAl H ED* t EBr +^(f = A~F.

Became BF is parallel to CD, ABF is a light angle,
and consequently AF is a diameter, and BC=DF; and
because AF is a diameter, ADF is a right angle. At
AED is a right angle,
AE*+EDy=AD'
Also, EB'+EC^BC^DF*
By addition, ZE'+W+^'+J^ ^^V^^Aj'
Hence the theorem.
THEOREM XXIV.
If perpendiculars be drawn bisecting the three sides of a
triangle, they will, when sufficiently produced, meet in a cont-
mon point.
The three angular points of a triangle are not in the
name straight line; consequently one circumference,
and hut one, may be made to pass through them.
Conceive a triangle to he thus circumscribed. The
sides of the triangle then become chords of the circum-
scribing circle. Now if these sides be bisected, and at the
points of bisection perpendiculars be drawn to the sides,
each of these perpendiculars will pass through the center
of the circle (Th. 1, Cor.); and the perpendiculars will
therefore meet in a common point.
Hence the theorem.
THEOREM XXV.
The sums of the opposite sides of a quadrilateral circum-
taribing a circle are equal.
Let ABCD be a quadrilateral circumscribed about a
circle, whose center is O. Then we are to prove that
AB + DC=AD + BC.
From the center of the circle draw OF and OF to
the points of contact of the sides AB and BC. Then,
10
ao
GEOMETRY.
the two right-angled triangles, OEB and OFB, are equal,
because they have the hypotenuse
OB common, and the side OF =
OE; therefore, BE = BF, (Cor.,
Th. 39, B. I).
In like manner we can prove
that
AE=AH, CF= Oa, andDG=DK
Now, taking the equation BE-
EF, and adding to its first mem-
ber CG, and to its second the
equal line OF. we have,
BE+CG = BF+CF (1)
The equation AE=AR, by adding to its first member
DG-, and to the second the equal line, DR, gives
AE+DG=AH+DH (2)
By the addition of (1) and (2), we find that
BE + AE+CG + DG = BF + CF+ AE+ DH.
That is, AB + CD=BO + AD.
Hence the theorem.

Ill
BOOK IV.
PROBLEMS
In this section, we have, in most instances, merely
Bhown the construction of the problem, and referred to
the theorem or theorems that the student may use, to
prove that the object is attained by the construction.
In obscure and difficult problems, however, we have
gone through the demonstration as though it were a
theorem.
PROBLEM I.
To bisect a given finite straight lint.
Let AB be the given line, and from
its extremities, A and B, with any
radius greater than one half of AB,
(Postulate 3), describe arcs, cutting A —
each other in n and m. Draw the line
nm; and C, where it cuts AB, will be
the middle of the given line.
Proof, (B. I, Th. 18, Sch. 2).
PROBLEM II.
To bisect a given angle.
Let ABC be the given angle. "With any
radius, and B as a center, describe the arc
A C. Prom A and C, as centers, with a
radius greater than one half of AC, de-
scribe arcs, intersecting in n; join B and n;
the joining line will bisect the given angle.
Proof, (Th. 21, B. I).
X
-e
X
m

GEOMETRY.

A n
m B
Proofi
PROBLEM III.
From a given point in a given line, to draw a perpendicular
to that line.
Let AB be the given line, and
C the given point. Take n and m,
at equal distances on opposite sides
of C; and with the points m and
n, as centers, and any radius
greater than nC or mC, describe
arcs cutting each other in S. Draw
SC, and it will be the perpendicular required.
(B. I, Th. 18, Sch. 2).
The following is another method,
which is preferable, when the given
point, C, is at or near the end of the
line.
Take any point, O, which is mani-
festly one side of the perpendicular,
as a center, and with OC as a radius, describe a circum-
ference, cutting AB in m and C. Draw mn through Ce
points m and O, and meeting the arc again in n; mn is
then a diameter to the circle. Draw Cn, and it will be
the perpendicular required. Proof, (Th. 9, B. LIT).

A »f
PROBLEM IV.
From a given point without a line, to draw a perpendicular
to that line.
Let AB be the given line, and C
the given point. From C draw any
oblique line, as Cn. Find the mid-
dle point of Cn by Problem 1, and
with that point, as a center, describe
a semicircle, having Cn as a diam-
eter. From m, where this semi-cir-
cumference cuts AB, draw Cm, and it will be the perpen
dicular required. Proof, (Th. 9, B. ILT).

118
PROBLEM V.
At a given point in a line, to construct an angle equal to
a given angle.
Let A be the point given in the line
AB, and DCE the given angle.
With C as a center, and any radius,
CE, draw the arc ED.
"With A as a center, and the radius
A F= CE, describe an indefinite arc; and
with F as a center, and FG as a radius,
equal to ED, describe an arc, cutting the
other arc in Q-, and draw AG-; (Ml* will be the angle
required. Proof, (Th. 2, B. LTI).

PROBLEM VI.
From a given point, to draw a line parallel to a given line.
Let A be the given point, and BC the
given line. Draw A C, making an angle,
ACB; and from the given point, A, in
the line A C, draw the angle CAD =
ACB, by Problem 5.
Since AD and BC make the same angle with AC, thev
are, therefore, parallel, (B. I, Th. 7, Cor. 1).

PROBLEM VII.
To divide a given line into any number of equal parts.
Let AB represent the given
line, aud let it be required to di-
vide it into any number of equal
parts, say five. From one end of
the line A, draw AD, indefinite
in both length and position. Take
any convenient distance in the di-

10* H
GEOMETRY.
viders, as Aa, and set it off on the line AD, thus making
the parts Aa, ab, be, etc., equal. Through the last point,
e, draw EB, and through the points a, b, c, and d, draw
parallels to eB, by Problem 6; these parallels will divide
the line a3 required. Proof, (Th. 17, Book LI).
PROBLEM VIII.
To find a third proportional to two given lines.
Let AB and A C be any two lines.
Place them at any angle, and draw
CB. On the greater line, AB, take
AD = AC, and through D, draw
DE parallel to BC; AE is the third
proportional required.
Proof, (Th. 17, B. LI).

PROBLEM IX.
To find a fourth proportional to three given lines.
L^t AB, AC, AD, represent the
»hrc2 given lines. Place the first
two at any angle, as BAC, and draw
BC On AB place AD, and from
the point D, draw DE parallel to
BC, by Problem 6; AE will be the
fourth proportional required.
Proof, (Th. 17, B. II).

PROBLEM X.
T< find the- middle, or mean proportional, between two given
Uneg
115


Place AB and BC in one right
.iue, and on AC, as a diameter, de-
scribe a semicircle, (Postulate 3),
and from the point B, draw BD at
right angles to AC, (Problem 3);
BD is the mean proportional re-
quired.
>>roof, (B. EI, Th. 17, Cor.).
PROBLEM XI.
To find the center of a given circle,
Draw any two chords in the given-cir-
cle, as AB and CD, and from the middle
points, m and n, draw perpendiculars to
AB and CD; the point at which these
two perpendiculars intersect will be the
center of the circle.
Proof, (B. HI, Th. 1, Cor.).
PROBLEM XII.
To draw a tangent to a given circle, from a given
either in or without the circumference of the circle.
When the given point is in the cir-
cumference, as A, draw the radius AC,
and from the point A, draw AB per-
pendicular to AC; AB is the tangent
required.
Proof, (Th. 4, B. ITI).
"When the given point is without
the circle, as A, draw AC to the
center of the circle; on AC, as a
diameter, describe a semicircle; and
from B, where the semi-circumfer-
ence cuts the given circumference,
draw AB, and it will be tangent to the circle.
Proof, (Th. 9, B. LIT), and, (Th. 4, B. HI).

ue
GEOMETRY.

PROBLEM XIII.
On a given line, to describe a segment of a circle, that shah
;ontain an angle equal to a given angle.
Let AB be the given
line, and C the given
angle. At the ends of
the given line, form angles
DAB, DBA, each equal
to the given angle, G.
Then draw AE and BE
perpendiculars to AD and BD; and with E as a center,
and EA, or EB, as a radius, describe a circle; then AFB
will be the segment required, as any angle F, made in
it, will be equal to the given angle, C.
Proof, (Th. 11, B. HI), and (Th. 8, B. HI).
PROBLEM XIV.
From any given circle to cut a segment, that shall contain
a given angle.
Let C be the given angle. Take
any point, as A, in the circumfer-
ence, and from that point draw the
tangent AB; and from the point
A, in the line AB, construct the /
angle BAD = C, (Problem 5), and c^
AED is the segment required.
Proof, (Th. 11, B. LTI), and (Th. 8, B. III).
PROBLEM XV.
To construct an equilateral triangle on a given straight li
Let AB be the given line; from ('
the extremities A and B, as centers,
with a radius equal to AB, describe arcs
cutting each other at C. From C, the
point of intersection, draw CA and CB;
ABC will be the triangle required. & E
The construction is a sufficient demonstration. Or, (Ax. 1).



PROBLEM XVI
To construct a triangle, having its three sides equal to three
jiven lines, any two of which shall be greater than the third.
Let AB, CD, and EF, represent the E p
xh ree lines. Take any one of them, as c D
A B, to be one side of the triangle. From
B, as a center, with a radius equal to CD,
describe an arc; and from A, as a center,
with a radius equal to EF, describe an-
other arc, cutting the former in n. Draw
An and Bn, and AnB will be the A re-
quired. Proof, (Ax. 1).
PROBLEM XVII.
To describe a square on a given line.
Let AB be the given line; and from the
extremities, A and B, draw AC and BD per-
pendicular to AB. (Problem 3.)
From i, as a center, with AB as radius,
strike an arc across the perpendicular at C;
and from C draw CD parallel to AB; ACDB
is the square required. Proof, (Th. 26, B. I).
PROBLEM XVIII.
To construct a rectangle, or a parallelogram, whose adja
sent sides are equal to_ two given lines.
Let AB and AC be the two given A c
lines. From the extremities of one A g
line, draw perpendiculars to that line, as in the last prob-
lem; and from these perpendiculars, cut off portions
equal to the other line; and, by a parallel, complete the
figure
When the figure is to be a parallelogram, with oblique
angles, describe the angles by Problem 5. Proof, (Tb
26, B. I).
PROBLEM XIX.
To describe a rectangle that shall be equivalent to a given
square, and have a side equal to a given line.
Let AB be a side of the given square, c D
and CD one side of the required recfc- A B
angle. E F
Find the third proportional, EF, to CD and AB, (Prob-
lem 8). Then we shall have
CD : AB :: AB : EF.
Construct a rectangle with the two given lines, CD
and EF, (Problem 18), and it will be equal to the given
square, (Th. 3, B. II).
PROBLEM XX.
To construct a square that shall be equivalent to the differ
ence of two given squares.
Let A represent a side of the greater of two given
squares, and B a side of the less square.
On A, as a diameter, describe a
semicircle, and from one extremity,
n, as a center, with a radius equal to
B, describe an arc, and, from the
point where it cuts the circumference, —-—
draw mp and np ; mp is the side of
a square, which, wheu constructed,
(Problem 17), will be equal to the difference of the two
given squares. Proof (Th. 9, B. Ill, and Th. 39, B. I.)
To construct a square equivalent to the sum of two
given squares, we have only to draw through any point
two lines at right angles, and lay oft' on one a distance
equal to the side of one of the squares, and on the other

119
a distance equal to the side of the other. The straight
*me connecting the extremities of these lined will be the
Bide of the required square, (Th. 39, B. I).
M>-
PROBLEM XXI.
To divide a given line into two parts, which shall be in th*
ratic of two other given lines.
Let AB be the line A ~""~'B
to be divided, and M
and N the lines hav-
ing the ratio of the
required parts of AB.
From the extremity
A draw AD, making
any angle with AB,
and take AC = M,
and CD = N. Join
the points D and B
by a straight line,
and through Cdraw
CG parallel to BD.
Then will the point G divide the line AB into pa la
having the required ratio. (Proof, Th. 17, B. II).
Or, having drawn AD, lay off AC = M, and through
B draw B V parallel to AD, making it equal to N, and
join Cand Vby a line cutting AB in the point Gr.
Then the two triangles ACQ and GBV are equiangu-
lar and similar, and their homologous sides give tb<9
proportion,
AG : GB :: AC : BV :: M: N
The lite AB is therefore divided, at the point G, into
parts which are , the ratio of the lines M and N.

GEOMETRY.

PROBLEM XXII.
To divide a given line into any number of parts, having to
each other the ratios of other given lines.
Let AB be the given
line to be divided, and
M, N, P, etc., the lines
to which the parts of
A~B are to be propor-
tional.
Through the point A
draw an indefinite line, making, with AB, any conve-
nient angle, and on this line lay off from A the lines M,
N, P, etc., successively. Join the extremity of the last
line to the point B by a straight line, parallel to which
draw other lines through the points of division of the
indefinite line, and they will divide the line AB at the
points C, D, etc., into the required parts. (Proof, Th. 17,
B. II).
PROBLEM XXIII.
To construct a square that shall be to a given square, a* a
line, M, to a line, N.
Place If and N in a line, and
on the sum describe a semicir-
cle. From the point where the
two lines meet, draw a perpen-
dicular to meet the circumfer-
ence in A. Draw Am and An,
and produce them indefinitely. On An or An produced,
take AO= to the side of the given square ; and from G,
draw CB parallel to mn; AB is a side of the required
square.
Foi, J^' : An~':: IF :~AC\ (Th. 17, B. LT).
Also, Am :An::M :2T, (Th. 25, B.H).
Therefore, A~& :AO'::M :N, (Th. 6, B. II).

12]
PROBLEM XXIV.
To cut a line into evtreme and mean ratio; that is, so that
the whole line shall be to the greater part, as that greater part
is to the less.
Remark. — Tho gometrical solution of this problem is not imme-
diately apparent, but it is at once suggested by the form of the equa-
tion, which a simple r.lgebraic analysis of its conditions leads to.
Represent the line to be divided by 2a, the greater
part by x, and consequently the other, or less part, by
2a — x.
Now, the given line and its two parts are required, to
satisfy the following proportion:
2a : x :: x : 2a — x
whence, x2 = 4a2 — 2ax
By transposition, x' + 2ax = 4a2 = (2a)2
[f we add a2 to both members of this equation, we
shall have,
x2 + 2ax + a2 = (2a)2 + a2
or, (x +af = (2a)2 + a2
This last equation indicates that the lines represented
by (x + a), 2a, and a, are the three sides of a right-
angled triangle, of which (x + a) is the hypotenuse, the
given line, 2a, one of the sides, and its half, a, the other.
Therefore, let AB represent the
given line, and from the extremity, B,
draw BC at right angles to AB, and
make it equal to one half of AB.
With C, as a center, and radius CB,
describe a circle. Draw AC and pro-
duce it to F. "With A as a center
and AD as a radius, describe the arc
DE; this arc will divide the line AB,
a,3 required.
We are now to prove that
AB : AE :: AE : EB

11
By Th. 18, B. Ill, we have,
AF x AB = AB*
or, AF : AB :: AB : AB
Thee, (by Cor., Th. 8, Book II), we may have,
{AF—AB) : AB :: (AB — AD) : AD
Since CB = \AB = \DF; therefore, AB = LF
Hence, AF — AB = AF— DF = AD = AE.
Therefore, AE : AB :: EB : AE
By taking the extremes for the means, we have,
AB : AE :: ^li' : EB.
PROBLEM XXV.
To describe an isosceles triangle, having its two equal angle*
each double the third angle, and the equal sides of any given
length.
Let AB he one of the equal sides of
the required triangle; and from the
point A, with the radius AB, describe
an arc, BD.
Divide the line AB into extreme acd
mean ratio by the last problem, and sup-
pose Cthe point of division, and AC the
greater segment.
From the point B, with A C, the greater segment, as e
radius, describe another arc, cutting the arc BB in D
Draw BD, DO, and DA. The triangle ABD is the trl
angle required.
As AC = BD, by construction; and as AB is to At,
as A C is to BC, by the division of AB; therefore
AB : BB :: BD : BC
Now, as the terms of this proportion are the sides ot
the two triangles about the common angle, B, it follows,
Cor. 2, Th. 17, B. II), that the two triangles, ABB and

BDC, are equiangular; but the triangle ABD is isos-
celes; therefore, BDO is isosceles also, and BD = DC;
but BD = AC: hence, DC = AC, (Ax. 1), and the tri-
angle A CD is isosceles, and the |_ CDA = |_ A. But
the exterior angle, BCD = CDA + A, (Th. 12, B. I).
Therefore, |_BCD, or its equal LB = L C#^ + L ^ 5 oi
the angle B = 2|_J.. Hence, the triangle ABD has each
of its angles, at the base, double of the third angle.
Scholium.—As the two angles, at the base of the triangle ABD, are
equal, and each is double the angle A, it follows that the sum of the
three angles is Jive times the angle A. But, as the three angles of every
triangle are always equal to two right angles, or 180°, the angle A
must be one fifth of two right angles, or 36°; therefore, BD is a chord
of 36°, when AB is a radius to the circle; and ten such chords wonld
aitend exactly round the circle, or would form a decagon.
PROBLEM XXVI.
Within a given circle to inscribe a triangle, equiangular to
a given triangle.
Let ABC be the circle, and
abc the given triangle. From
any point, as A, draw ED tan-
gent to the given circle at A,
(Problem 12).
From the point A, in the line
AD, lay oif the angle DAC —
the angle b, (Problem 5), and the angle EAB = the angle
c, and draw BC.
The triangle ABC'is inscribed in the circle; it is equi-
angular to the triangle abc, and hence it is the triangle
required.
Proof, (Th. 12, B. nil.

GEOMETRY.

PROBLEM XXVII.
To inscribe a regular pentagon in a given cirjle.
1st. Describe an isosceles tri-
angle, abc, having each of the
equal angles, t and e, double the
third angle, a, by Problem 25.
2d, Inscribe the triangle,
A BC, in the given circle, equi-
angular to the triangle abc, by
Problem 26; then each of the angles, B and C, is double
the angle A.
3d. Bisect the angles B and C, by the lines BD and
CE, (Problem 2), and draw AE, EB, CD, DA; and the
figure AEBCD is the pentagon required.
By construction, the angles BAC, ABD, DBC, BCE,
ECA, are all equal; therefore, (B. Ill, Th. 9, Cor.), the
arcs, BC, AD, DC, AE, and EB, are all equal; and if
the arcs are equal, the chords AE, EB, etc., are equal.
Scholium.—The arc subtended by one of the sides of a regular pen-
300°
tagon, being one fifth of the whole circumference, is equal to ——=72°'
PROBLEM XXVIII.
To inscribe a regular hexagon in a circle.
D aw any diameter of the circle, as
AB. and from one extremity, B, draw
BB equal to BC, the radius of the
circle The arc, BD, will be one sixth
part of the whole circumference, and
the chord B D will be a side of the regu-
lar polygon of six sides.
In the A CBD, as CB = CD, and BD = CB by con-
struction, the A is equilateral, and of course equiangular.
fAncc the sum of the three angles of every A is equal
to two right angles, or to 180 degrees, when the

three angles are equal to one another, each one of them
must be 60 degrees; but 60 degrees is a sixth yart of
360 degrees, the whole number of degrees in a circle;
therefore, the arc whose chord is equal to the radius, is a
sixth part of the circumference; and, if a polygon of siz
equal sides be inscribed in a circle, each side will b«
equal to the radius.
Scholium. — Hence, as BD is the chord of 60°, and equal to EC 3f
CD, we say generally, that the chord of CO0 is equal to radius.
PROBLEM XXIX.
To find the side of a regular polygon of fifteen sides, which
may be inscribed in any given circle.
Let CB be the radius of the given
circle; divide it into extreme and
mean ratio, (Problem 24), and make
BD equal to CE, the greater part;
then BD will be a side of a regular
polygon of ten sides, (Scholium to
Problem 25). Draw BA = to CB, and
it will be a side of a polygon of six sides. Draw DA,
and that line must be the side of a polygon which cor-
responds to the arc of the circle expressed by J less Jn,
of the whole circumference; or \ — to = so = ts , *na^
is, one-fifteenth of the whole circumference; or, DA is
a side of a regular polygon of 15 sides. But the 15th
part of 360° is 24° ; hence the side of a regular inecnDed
oolygon of fifteen sides is the chord of an arc of 24°.
PROBLEM XXX.
In a given circle to inscribe a regular polygon of any num
ber of sides, and then to. circumscribe the circle by a similar
polygon.

* 11*
GEOMETRi.

Let the circumference of the circle, whose cetter is C.
be divided into any number of equal arcs, as arnb, bnc,
cod, etc.; then will the polygon abode, etc., bounded by
the chords of these arcs, be regu-
lar and inscribed; and the poly-
gon ABCDE, etc., bounded by
the tangents to these arcs at their
middle points m, n, o, etc, be a
similar circumscribed polygon.
First. — The polygon abode,
etc., is equilateral, because its
sides are the chords of equal
arcs of the same circle, (Th. 5, B. Ill); and it is equi
angular, because its angles are inscribed in equal segments
of the same circle, (Th. 8, B. III). Therefore the poly-
gon is regular, (Def. 14, B. Ill), and it is inscribed, since
the vertices of all its angles are in the circumference of
the circle, (Def. 13, B. EI).
Second.—If we draw the radius to the point of tangency
of the side AB of the circumscribed polygon, this radius
is perpendicular to AB, (Th. 4, B. Ill), and also to the
chord ab, (B. Ill, Th. 1, Cor.); hence AB is parallel to ab,
and for the same reason BC is parallel to bo; therefore
the angle ABC is equal to the angle abe, (Th. 8, B. I).
In like manner we may prove the other angles of the
circumscribed polygon, each equal to the corresponding
angle of the inscribed polygon. These polygons are
therefore mutually equiangular.
Again, if we draw the radii Om and On, and the line Oft?
the two A's thus formed are right-angled,, the one at »
and the other at n, the side OB is common and Om ia
equal to On; hence the difference of the squares described
on OB and Om is equivalent to the difference of the
squares described on OB and On. But the first difference
is equivalent to the square described on Bm, and the
Becond diffetence is equivalent to the square described
on Bn; hence Bm is equal to Bn, and the two right-
angled triangles are equal, (Th. 21, B. I), the angle BOm
opposite the side Bm being equal to the angle BOn, op-
posite the equal side Bn. The line OB therefore passe*
through the middle point of the arc mbn ; but because m
and n are the middle points of the equal arcs amb and
bnc, the vertex of the angle aba is also at the middle
point of the arc mbn. Hence the line OB, drawn from
the center of the circle to the vertex of the angle ABO,
also passes through the vertex of the angle abc. By pre-
cisely the same process of reasoning, we may prove that
OC passes through the point c, OI) through the point d,
etc.; hence the lines joining the center with the vertices
of the angles of the circumscribed polygon, pass through
the vertices of the corresponding angles of the inscribed
polygon ; and conversely, the radii drawn to the vertices
of the angles of the inscribed polygon, when produced,
pass through the vertices of the corresponding angles
of the circumscribed polygon.
Now, since ab is parallel to AB, the similar A's abO
and ABO, give the proportion
Ob : OB :: ab : AB,
and the A's,5c0 and BCO, give the proportion
Ob : OB :: bo : BC.
As these two proportions have an antecedent and con-
sequent, the same in both, we have, (Th. G, B. II),
ab : AB :: be : BC.
In like manner we may prove that
bo : BC :: cd : CD, etc., etc.
The two polygons are therefore not only equiangular,
but the sides about the equal angles, taken in the same
order, are proportional; they are therefore similar, (De£
16. B. II).
Cor. 1. To inscribe any regular polygon in a circle, we
have only to divide the circumference into as many equal
parts as the polygon is to have sides, and to draw the
chords of the arcs; hence, in a given circle, it is possible
to inscribe regular polygons of any number of sides
whatever. Having constructed any such polj'gon in a
given circle, it is evident, that by changing the radios ot
the circle without changing the number of sides of the
polygon, it may be made to represent any regular poly-
gon of the same name, and it will still be inscribed in a
circle. As this reasoning is applicable to regular poly-
gons of whatever number of sides, it follows, that any
regular polygon may be circumscribed by the circumference,
of a circle.
Cor. 2. Since ab, be, cd, etc., are equal chords of the
same circle, they are at the same distance from the
center, (Th. 3, B. Ill); hence, if with O as a center, and
Ot, the distance of one of these chords from that point,
as a radius, a circumference be described, it will touch
all of these chords at their middle points. It follows,
therefore, that a circle may be inscribed within any regular
polygon.
Scholium.—The center, 0, of the circle, may be taken as the center
of both the inscribed and circumscribed polygons; and the angle
AOB, included between lines drawn from the center to the extremities
of one of the sides AB, is called the angle at tlie center. The perpen-
dicular drawn from the center to one of the sides is called the Aputhcm
of the polygon.
Cor. 3. The angle at the center of any regular polygon
is equal to four right angles divided by the number of
sides of the polygon. Thus, if n be the number of sides
of the polygon, the angle at the center will be expressed
, 360°
by
n
Cor. 4. If the arcs subtended by the sides of anj
regular inscribed polygon be bisected, aud the chorda
of these semi-arcs be drawn, we shall have a regular
inscribed polygon of double the number of sides. Thus,
from the square we may pass successively to regular
inscribed polygons of 8, 16, 32, etc., sides. To get the
corresponding circumscribed polygons, we have merely
to draw tangents at the middle points of the arcs sub-
tended by the sides of the inscribed polygons.
Cor. 5. It is plain that each inscribed polygon is but
a part of one having twice the number of sides, while
each circumscribed polygon is but a part of one having
onp h«lf the number of sides
GEOMETET.
BOOK V.
ON THE PROPORTIONALITIES AND MEASUREMENT
OF POLYGONS AND CIRCLES.

PROPOSITION I. —THEOREM.
The area of any circle is equal to the product of its radiun
by one half of its circumference.
Let CA be the radius of a circle,
and AB a very small portion of its
circumference; then ACB will be a
sector. "We may conceive the whole
circle made up of a great number of
such sectors; and when each sector
is very small, the arcs AB, BD, etc.,
each one taken separately, may be regarded as light
lines ; and the sectors CAB, CBD, etc., will be triangles.
The triangle, ACB, is measured by the product of tho
base, AC, multiplied into one half the altitude, AB, (Th.
33, Book I); and the triangle BCD is measured by the pro-
duct of BC, or its equal, AC, into one half BD; then the
area, or measure of the two triangles, or sectors, is the
product of AC, multiplied by one half of AB plus one
half of BD, and so on for all the sectors that compose
the circle; therefore, the area of the circle is measured
by the product of the radius into one half the circumference.
131
PROPOSITION II. —THEOREM.

Circumferences of circles are to one another as their radii,
and their areas are to one another as the squares of their
radii.
Let CA be the radius of a circle,
and Ca the radius of another circle.
Conceive the two circles co be so
f laced upon each other so as to have
a common center.
Let AB be such a certain definite
portion of the circumference of the
larger circle, that m times AB will represent that cir-
cumference.
But whatever part AB is of the greater circumference,
the same part ah is of the smaller; for the two circles
have the same number of degrees, and are of course sus-
ceptible of division into the same number of sectors.
But by proportional triangles we have,
CA : Ca :: AB : ab
Multiply the last couplet by m, (Th. 4, B. LT), and we
have
CA : Ca :: m.AB : m.ab.
That is, the radius of one circle is to the radius of another,
as the circumference of the one is to the circumference of the
other.
To prove the second part of the theorem, let C repre-
sent the area of the larger circle, and c that of the
eiaaller; now, whatever part the sector CAB is of the
circle C, the sector Cab is the corresponding part of the
circle c.
That is,
C: c:
: CAB : Cab,
but,
CAB: Cab:
: (CAf : (Caf,
(Th. 20, B. II).
Therefore,
C:c:
: (CAf : (Caf,
(Th. 6, B. U).
That is, the area of one circle is tc the area of another, at
the square of the radius of the one is to the square of th*
radius of the other.
Hence the theorem.
Cor. If C: c :: (CAf :(Caf,
then, C : c ::4(CAf : 4(Ca)\
But 4 (CAf is the square of the diameter of the laigar
circle, and 4 (Caf is the square of the diameter of the
smaller. Denoting these diameters respectively by D
and d, we have,
C : o :: W : d\
That is, the areas of any two circles are to each other, at
the squares of their diameters.
Scholium. — As the circumference of eTery circle, great or small, is
assumed to be the measure of 3G0 degrees, if we conceive the circum-
ference to be divided into 3G0 equal parts, and one such part repre-
sented by AB on one circle, or ab on the other, .4.8 and ao will be very
near straight lines, and the length of such a line as AB will be greater
or less, according to the radius of the circle; but its absolute length
cannot be determined until we know the absolute relation between the
diameter of a circle and its circumference.
PROPOSITION III. —THEOREM.
Wlten the radius of a circle is unity, its area and semv
circumference are numerically equal.
Let R represent the radius of any circle, and the Greek
letter, *, the half circumference of a circle whose radius
is unity. Since circumferences are to each other as their
radii, when the radius is R, the semi-circumference will
be expressed by *R.
Let m denote the area of the circle of which R is the
radius; then, by Theorem 1, we shall have, for the area
of this circle, *R2 = m, which, when R = 1, reduces to
*. = m.
This equation is to be interpreted as meaning that the
semi-circumference contains its unit, the radius, as many
times as the area of the circle contains its unit, the
square of the radius.
Remark. — The celebrated problem of squaring the circle has for ita
object to find a line, the square on whicii will be equivalent to the area
of a circle of a given diameter; or, in other words, it proposes to find
the ratio between the area of a circle and the square of its radius.
An approximate solution only of this problem has been as yet dis-
severed, but the approximation is so close that the esact solution it
&.: longer a question of any practical importance.
PROPOSITION IV. —PROBLEM.
Given, the radius of a circle unity, to find the areas of
regular inscribed and circumscribed hexagons.
Conceive a circle described with the radius CA, and in
this circle inscribe a regular polygon of six sides (Prob
28, B. IV), and each side will be
equal to the radius CA; hence,
the whole perimeter of this poly-
gon must be six times the ra-
dius of the circle, or three times
the diameter. The chord bd is
bisected by CA. Produce Cb and Od, and through the
point A, draw BD parallel to bd; BD will then be a 3ide
of a regular polygon of six sides, circumscribed about
the circle, and we can compute the length of thia line,
BD, as follows: The two triangles, Cbd and CBD, are
equiangular, by construction; therefore,
Ca : bd :: CA : BD.
Now, let us assume CA = Cd = the radius of the
uircla, equal unity; then bd = 1, and the preceding pro-
portion becomes
Ca : 1 :: 1 : BD (1)
In the right-angled triangle Cad, we have,
(Cay + (ad)* = (Cd)\ (Th. 39, B. I).
That is, (Qay + l=1, because Cd=\, and ad=±,

12
Whence, Ca = \ V3. This value of Ca, substituted in
proportion (1), gives
|v/3 : 1 :: 1 : BD; hence, BD = ^|. *
But the area of the triangle Cbd is equal to bd (= 1,)
multiplied by JCa = \ ^3; and the area of the triangle
CBD is equal to BD multiplied by %CA.
Whence, area, Cbd = \ ^3,
and, area, CBD = ,-,.
v 3
But the area of the inscribed polygon is six times that
of the triangle Cbd, and the area of the circumscribed
polygon is six times that of the triangle CBD.
Let the area of the inscribed polygon be represented
by p, and that of the circumscribed polygon by P.
Then p = 1^3, andi» f = ?^J = 2^B.
r 2' v/3 v/3
3 3
Whence;? : P :: £^3 : 2^3 :: ^ : 2 :: 3 : 4 :: 9 : 12
p = 1^3 = 2.59807621. P = 2^3 = 3.46410161.
Now, it is obvious that the area of the circle must be
included between the areas of these two polygons, and
not far from, but somewhat greater than, their half sum,
which is 3.03 +; and this may be regarded as the first
approximate value of the area of the circle to the radius
unity.
PROPOSITION V. —PROBLEM.
Given, the areas of two regular polygons of the same num
her of sides, the one inscribed in and the other circumscribed
about, the same circle, to find the areas of regular inscribed and
circumscribed polygons of double the number of sides.
~Lvtp represent the area of the given inscribed polygon,
and P that of the circumscribed polygon of the same
136
numbei of sides. Also denote by p' the area of the
inscribed polygon of double the number of sides, and by
P' that of the corresponding circumscribed polygon.
Now, if the arc KAL be some exact part, as one-fourth,
one fifth, etc., of the circumference of the circle, of which
0 is the center and CA the radius, then will KL be the
Bide of a regular inscribed polygon, and the triangle
KCL will be the same part of the whole polygon that
the arc KAL is of the whole circumference, and the
triangle CDB will be a like part of the circumscribed
polygon. Draw CA to the point of tangency, and bisect
the angles ACB and ACJD, by the lines CG and CE, and
draw KA.
It is plain that the triangle
ACK is an exact part of the
inscribed polygon of double the
number of sides, and that the
A ECG is a like part of the cir-
cumscribed polygon of double
the number of sides. Repre-
sent the area of the A LCKbj
a, and the area of the A BCD
by b, that of the a ACK by x,
and that of the A ECO- by y, and suppose the A's, KCL
aud DBC, to be each the nth part of their respective
polygons.
Then, na = p, nb = P, 2nx = p',
and, 2ny = P';
But, by (Th. 33, B. I), we have
CM . MK=a (1)
CA . AD = b (2)
CA . MK= 1x (3)
Multiplying equations (1) and (2), member by member,
we have
(CM . AD) x {CA . MK) =ab (4)

From the similar A's CMK and CAD, we have
CM: MK :: CA : AD
whence CM . AD = CA . MK
But from equation (3) we see that each member of
Lhi3 last equation is equal to 2x; hence equation (4!
becomes
2x . 2x = ab
If we multiply both members of this by w' = n , n,
we shall have
4?i*r! = na.nb = p.P
or, taking the square root of both members,
2nx = v'pl?
That is, the area of the inscribed polygon of double the
number of sides is a mean proportional between the areas of
the given inscribed and circumscribed polygons p and P.
Again, since CE bisects the angle ACD, we have, by,
(Th. 24, B. II),
AE : ED
hence, AE : AE +ED
: CA: CD
: CM: CK
: CM: CA
: CM: CM+ CA.
Multiplying the first couplet of this proportion by CA,
and the second by MK, observing that AE + ED = AD,
we shall have
AE.CA : AD.CA :: CM.MK: (CM + CA) MK.
But AE.CA measures the area of the A CEG-^ whnb
ve have called y, AD.CA = A CBD = b, CM.MK =.
A CKL = a, and (CM +. CA)MK = a CKL + 2 a CAK=
a + 2x, as is seen from equations (1) and (3). Therefore,
the above proportion becomes
y : b :: a : a + 2x.
Multiplying the first couplet by 2n, and the second by
n, we shall have
131
Iny:
: 2nb :: na : na + 2nx
That is,
P>;
: 2P :: p :p + p'
whence,
and as the value of p' has been previously found equal to
V.Pp, the value of P' is known from this last equation,
and tlie problem is completely solved.
PROPOSITION VI. —PROBLEM.
To determine the approximate numerical value of the area
of a circle, when the radius is unity.
We have now found, (Prob. 4), the areas of regular
(inscribed and circumscribed hexagons, when the radius
of the circle is taken as the unit; and Prob. 5 gives us
formulae for computing from these the areas of regular
inscribed and circumscribed polygons of twelve sides,
and from these last we may pass to polygons of
twenty-four sides, and so on, without limit. Now, it is
evident that, as the number of sides of the inscribed
polygon is increased, the polygon itself will increase,
gradually approaching the circle, which it can never sur-
pass. And it is equally evident that, as the number of
sides of the circumscribed polygon is increased, the poly-
gon itself will decrease, gradually approaching the circle,
less than which it can never become.
The circle being included between any two corres-
ponding inscribed and circumscribed polygons, it will
differ from either less than they differ from each other;
and the area of either polygon may then be taken as the
area of the circle, from which it will differ by an amount
less than the difference between the polygons.
It is also plain that, as the areas of the polygons ap-
proach equality, their perimeters will approach coinci-
dence with each other, and with the circumference of
the circle.
12*
Assuming the areas already found for the inscribed
and circumscribed hexagons, and applying the formulae
of Prob. 5 to them and to the successive results oh.
tained, we may construct the following table:
NUMBER OF
SIDES.
INSCRIBED POLYOONS.
CIECUHSCKUUi POLTOONS.
6
|V3
= 2.59807621
2^3=
=3.46410161
12
3
= 3.0000000
= 3.1058286
12
-3.2153904
3.1596602
24
6
2+v/3
48
V2+v"8
3.1326287
3.1460863
96
3.1393554
3.1427106
132
3.1410328
3.1418712
384
3.1414519
3.1416616
768
3.1415568
3.1416092
1536
3.1415829
3.1415963
3072
3.1415895
3.1415929
6144
3.1415912
3.1415927
Thus we have found, that when the radius of a circle ia
1, the semi-circumference must be more than 3.1415912,
and less than 3.1415927; and this is as accurate as can
be determined with the small number of decimals here
used. To be more accurate we must have more decimal
places, and go through a very tedious mechanical opera-
tion; but this is not necessary, for the result is well
known, and is 3.1415926535897, plus other decimal places
to the 100th, without termination. This result was dis-
covered through the aid of an infinite series in the Dif-
ferential and Integral Calculus.
The number, 3.1416, is the one generally used in prac-
tice, as it is much n ore convenient than a greater num-
ber of decimals, and it is sufficiently accurate for all
ordinary purposes.
Ia analytical expressions it has become a general cus-
tom with mathematicians to represent this number by
139
the Greek letter *, and, therefore, when any diameter of
a circle is represented by D, the circumference of the
same circle must be «D. If the radius of a circle is re-
presented by Ii, the circumference must be represented
by 2«R.
Scholium. — The side of a regular inscribed hexagon subtends ai
arc of CO0, and the side of a regular polygon of twelve sides subtend
an arc of 30°; and so on, the length of the arc subtended by the side*
of the polygons, varying inversely with the number of sides.
Angles are measured by the arcs of circles included between their
sides; they may also be measured by the chords of these arcs, or rather
by the half chords called sines in Trigonometry. For this purpose, it
becomes necessary to know the length of the chord of every possible
arc of a circle.
PROPOSITION VII. —PROBLEM.
Given, the chord of any arc, to find the chord of one half
that arc, the radius of the circle being unity.
Let FE be the given chord, and draw
the radii CA and CE, the first perpen-
dicular to FE, and the second to its ex-
tremity, E.
Denote FE by 2c, and the chord of
the half arc AE by x.
Then, in the right-angled triangle,
DCE, we have 'DC* = CF — DE*.
CE = l,DC = S\ — c\
If from CA = 1 we subtract DC, we shall have AD.
That is, AD = 1 — >/T=7; hxitAD* + DE* = AE*,
and AD* = 2 — 2^1 — c* — c\ Adding to the first
member of this last equation DE*, and to the second its
value c", we have
AD* + DE'=2-2 vT^c7.
Whence, AE = ^2 — 2^1 — c\ the value sought.
By applying this formula successively to any known
chord, we can find the chord of one half the arc, that ol
half of the half, and so on, to the chords of the mosi
minute arcs.

Whence, since
Application.
The greatest chord in a circle is its diameter, which is
2 when the radius is 1; therefore, we may commence
by making 2c = 2, and e = 1.
Then, AE = ^2-2 41^' = ^2 — 2^1^= ^2-
1.41421356, which is the chord of 90°.
Now make 2c = 1.41421356, and c =.70710678 = Jv^2.
We shall then have,
chord of 450=*/2-V2=i/2-1.41421356=v'.585786"44=:
.7653+.
Again, placing 2c=.7653-|-, and applying the formula,
we can obtain the chord of 22° 30', and from this the
chord of 11° 15', and so on, as far as we please.
We may take, for another starting point, the chord of
60°, which is known to be equal to the radius of the
circle,(Prob. 26, B. IV). If, as above, we make successive
applications of the formula, putting first 2e= 1, we shall
arrive at the results in the following
•
TABLE
•
Chord of 60°,
= h of a
circumference,
1.0000000000
«
"30°,
1 u
u
.5176380902
— 72
u
"15°,
1 «
u
.2610523842
— 27
u
"7° 30',
1 «
u
.1308062583
— IS
ti
"3° 45',
1 «
«
.0654381655
— 38
it
"1° ?2' 30",
1 «
tl
.0327234632
— JV1
ti
« 56' 15",
1 «
«
.0163622792
— 3B?
l:
"28' 7" 30'",
i :i
.'<
.0081812050
— 783
(<
"14' 3" 45'",
1 «
It
0040906112
— 753 8
U
"7' 1" 52 J'",
etc.
1 «
It
.0020453068
— 3572
etc.
It is obvious that an arc so small as seven minutes of a
degree can differ but very little from its chord; therefore,
if we take .002045307 to be the true value of the jj^3 of
the circumference, the whole circumference must be the
product of .002045307 by 3072, which is 6.28318oj.04 =»
circumference whose radius is unity. The half of this,
3.141592552, is the semi-circumference, the more exact
value of which, as stated, (Prop. 6), is 3.141592653.
The value of the half circumference being now deter-
mined, if that of any arc whatever be required, we have
merely to divide 3.141592, etc., by 10800, the number of
minutes in a semi-circumference, and multiply the quo-
tient by the number of minutes in the arc whose length
is required.
But this investigation has been carried far enough for
our present purposes. It will be resumed under the
subject of Trigonometry.
"We insert the following beautiful theorem for the tri-
section of an arc, although not necessary for practical
application. Those not acquainted with cubic equations
may omit it.
PROPOSITION VIII.—THEOREM.
G-iven, the chord of any arc, to determine the chord of one
third of such arc.
Let AE be the given chord, and
conceive its arc divided into three
equal parts, as represented by AB,
BD, and DE.
Through the center draw BCG-, and
draw AB. The two A's, CAB and
ABF, are equiangular; for, the angle
FAB, being at the circumference, is
measured by one half the arc BE, which is equal to AB,
and the angle BCA, being at the center, is measured by
the arc AB; therefore, the angle FAB = the angle BCA;
but the angle CBA or FBA, is common to both tri-
angles; therefore, the third angle, CAB, of the one tri-
angle, is equal to the third angle. AFB, of the other.

(Th. 12, B. I, Cor. 2), and the two triangles are equi-
angular and similar.
But the A ACB is isosceles; therefore, the A AFB is
alsc isosceles, and AB = AF, and we have the following
proportions:
CA : AB :: AB : BF.
Now,letAE = c,AB = x,AC=l. ThenAF=*z,and
EF= c — x, and the proportion becomes,
1 : x :: x : BF. Hence, BF= X*.
Also, FG = 2 — x2.
As AE and BG are two chords intersecting each other
at the point F, we have,
GFx FB = AFx FF, (Th. 17, B. HI).
That is, (2 — ar) x* = x(c — x);
or, Xs — 3a; = — c.
If we suppose the arc AE to be 60 degrees, then e = 1,
and the equation becomes 2? — 3x = —1; a cubic equa-
tion, easily resolved by Horner's method, (Robinson's
New University Algebra, Art. 464), giving x= .347296 +
the chord of 20°. This again may be taken for the value
of c, and a second solution will give the chord of 6° 40',
and so on, trisecting successively as many times as we
please.
PRACTICAL PROBLEMS.
The theorems and problems with which we have been
thus far occupied, relate to plane figures; that is, to
figures all of whose parts are situated in the same plane.
It yet remains for us to investigate the intersections ani
relative positions of planes; the relations.and positions
of lines with reference to planes in which they are not
contained; and the measurements, relations, and proper-
ties of solids, or volumes. But before we proceed to this,
it is deemed advisable to give some practical problems
for the purpose of exercising the powers of the student,
and of fixing m his mind those gent, al geometrical prin-
ciples with which we must now suppose him to he
acquainted.
1. The base of an isosceles triangle is 6, and the oppo-
site angle is 60°; required the length of each of the other
two equal sides, and the number of degrees in each of
the other angles.
2. One angle of a right-angled triangle is 30°; what
is the other angle? Also, the least side is 12, what is
the hypotenuse?
. /The hypotenuse is 24, the double of the least
JLm \ side. Why?
8. The perpendicular distance between two parallel
lines is 10; what angles must aline of 20 make with
these parallels to extend exactly from the one to the
other? Am. The angles must be 30° and 150°.
4. The perpendicular distance between two parallels
is 20 feet, and a line is drawn across them at an angle of
4.5°; what is its length between the parallels?
Ana. 20^2.
5. Two parallels are 8 feet asunder, and from a point
in one of the parallels two lines are drawn to meet the
other; the length of one of these lines is 10 feet, and
that of the other 15 feet; what is the distance between
ihe points at which they meet-the other parallel?
Am. 6.69 ft., or 18.69 ft. (See Th. 39, B. I).
6. Two parallels are 12 feet asunder, and, from a point
on one of them, two lines, the one 20 feet and the othei
18 feet in length, are drawn to the "other parallel; wha
u the distance between the two lines on the other parallel
and what is the area of the triangle so formed?
!The distance on the other parallel is 29.416
feet, or 2.584 feet; and the area of the tri
angle is 176.496, or 15.504 square feet.
7 The diameter of a circle is 12, and a chord of the
circle is 4; what is the length of the perpendicular
drawn from the center to thia chord? (See Th. 3, B. TTT).
Ans. W%.
8. Two parallel chords in a circle were measured and
found to be 8 feet each, and their distance asunder was
6 feet; what was the radius of the circle?
Ans. 5 feet.
9. Two chords on opposite sides of the center of a
ci/3le are parallel, and one of them has a length of Id
and the other of 12 feet, the distance between them
being 14 feet. What is the diameter of the circle?
Ans. 20 feet.
10. An isosceles triangle has its two equal sides, 15
each, and its base 10. "What must be the altitude of a
right-angled triangle on the same base, and having an
e>(ual area;
11. From the extremities of the base of any triangle,
dr.w lines bisecting the other sides; these two lines in-
tersecting within the triangle, will form another triangle
on the same base. How will the area of this new tri-
angle compare with that of the whole triangle?
Ans. Their areas will be as 3 to 1.
12. Two parallel chords on the same side of the centet
of a circle, whose diameter is 32, are measured and found
to be, the one 20, and the other 8. How far are they
asunder? Ans. ^240 —</\56 = 3+.
If we suppose the two chords to be on opposite sides of the
center, their distance apart will then be v'240 + v^lSG = ] 5.49 -f
12.49 = 27.98.
13. The longer of the two parallel sides of a trapezoid
is 12, the shorter 8, and their distance asunder 5. Wha1
is the area of the trapezoid? and if we produce the two
inclined sides until they meet, what will be the area of
the triangle so formed?
Ans. Area of trapezoid, 50; area of triangle, 40; area
of triangle and trapezoid, 90.
145
14. The base of a triangle is 697, one of the sides is
534, and the other 813. If a line be drawn bisecting the
angle opposite the base, into what two parts will the
bisecting line divide the base? (See Th. 24, B. II).
A ( The greater part will be 420.684;
nS' \ The less " « 276.316.
15. Draw three horizontal parallels, making the dis-
tance between the two upper parallels 7, and that be-
tween the middle and lower parallels 9; then place be-
tween the upper parallels a line equal to 10, and from
the point in which it meets the middle parallel draw to
the lower a line equal to 11, and join the point in which
this last line meets the lower parallel, with the point in
the upper parallel, from which the line 10 was drawn.
Required the length of this line, and the area of the
triangle formed by it and the two lines 10 and 11
The adjoining figure
will illustrate. Let A be
the point on the upper
parallel from which the
line 10 is drawn. Then,
AF = 7, AB = 10,
FB = -v/100 — 49 =«
•51.
BR = FD = 9, BC
*= 11, RC=>/121^781
= •JO.
Whence, DC = >/5i
AC* = (x/51 + •il))' -t- (16)'; AC — 20.89, An».
Th.e area of the triangle, ABC, can be determined by first find-
ing the area of the trapezoid, ABIID, then the area of the trian-
gle, BHC, and from their sum subtracting the area of the triangle,
ADC.
16. Construct a triangle on a base of 400, one of the
angles at the base being 80°, and the other 70°; and

13 K
GEOMETKi.
Ans.
determine the third angle, and the area of the triangle
thus constructed.
The third angle is 30°, and as nearly as our
scale of equal parts can determine for us, the
side opposite the angle 80° is 787, and that
opposite 70° is 740.
The exact solution of problems like the last, except in a few par-
ticular cases, requires a knowledge of certain lines depending on
the angles of the triangle. The properties and values of these lines
are investigated in trigonometry; and as we are not yet supposed
to be acquainted with them, we must be content with the approxi-
mate solutions obtained by the constructions and measurements
made with the plane scale. *
17. If we call the mean radius of the earth 1, the
mean distance of the moon will be 60; and as the mean
distance of the sun is 400 times the distance of the
moon, its distance will be 400 times 60. The sun and
moon appear to have the same diameter; supposing^
then, the real diameter of the moon to be 2160 miles,
what must be that of the sun?

Let E be the center of the earth, M that of the moon, and <S'
that of the sun, and suppose EXP to be a line from the center of
the earth, touching the moon and the sun.
Then, EM: MX:: ES : SP;
but 3IX\s the radius of the moon, and SP that of the sun. Mill
tiplying the consequents by 2, the above proportion becomes
EM : 2MX:: ES :2SP;
or in numbers, 60 : 2160 :: 400 x 60 : 2SP;
whence, 2SP = sun's diameter = 864000 miles, Ans.
18. In Problem 15, suppose BC to be drawn on the
other side of BR, what, then, will be the value of AOK
and wbat the area of the triano;le ACB1
Ans
(AC = 16,021;
A.rea of triangle, ^(9^51 + 7t/40).
19. A man standing 40 feet from a building which was
24 feet wide, observed that when he closed one eye, the
width of the building just eclipsed or hid from view 90
rods of fence which was parallel to the width of the
building; what was the distance from the eye of the
observer to the fence? Ans. 2475 feet,
20. Taking the same data as in the last problem, ex-
cept that we will now suppose the direction of the fence
to be inclined at an angle of 45° to the side of the
building which we see; what, in this case, must be the
distance between the eye of the observer and the remoter
point of the fence?

Let EF be the width of the house, E the position of the eye, and
A B that of the fence. Draw BD perpendicular to EA produced;
then, since the triangle ABD is right-angled and isosceles, we have
AD = DB, and 2AZ? = AB' = (90)2; BE = 63.64 rods, and the
Rtmilar triangles EFE and EDB give the proportion
EF : EF :: BE : ED = 1750.1 feet;
and from this we find
EB' = ED* + BD' = (63.64 x 823)* + (175°-l)*
Whence EB = 2040.94 + Ans.
21. In a right-angled triangle, ABC, we have AB =
493, AC= 1425, and BC = 1338; it is required to divide
tliis triangle into parts by a line parallel to AB, whose
areas are to each other as 1 is to 3. How will the sides
AO and BC be divided by this line? (See Th. 20, B. 11).
Ans. Into equal parts.
22. In a right-angled triangle, ABC, right-angled at
B, the base AB is 320, and the angle A is 60°; required
the remaining angle and the other sides.
. f The angle (7= 30°;
I AC= 640; BC= 554.24.
23. A hunter, wishing to determine his distance from
a village in sight, took a point and from it laid off two
lines in the direction of two steeples, wnich he supposed
squally distant from him, and which he knew to be 100
rods asunder. At the distance of 50 feet on each line
from the common point, he measured the distance be-
tween the lines, and found it to be 5 feet 8 inches. How
fai was he from the steeples?
5 ft. 8 in.: 100 rods:: 50 ft.: distance. . (14,55y feet,
or, 68:100x?xl2::50:distance. A**'\ f ™&A1
£ K. 3 miles.
24. A person is in front of a building which he knowa
to be 160 feet long, and he finds that it covers 10 minutes
of a degree; that is, he finds that the two lines drawn
from his eye to the extremities of the building include
an angle of 10 minutes. What is his distance from the
building? j 55,004 feet, or
more than 10 miles.
Remark.—The questions of distance, with which we are at presen.
occupied, depend for their solution on the properties of similar tri-
angles. In the preceding example we apparently have but one tri
angle, but we have in fact two; the second being formed by the dis-
tances unity on the lines drawn from the eye of the observer, and the
line which connects the extremities of these units of distance. This
last line may be regarded as the chord of the arc 10 minutes to the
radius unity. Wo have seen that the length of the arc 180° to the
radius 1, is 3.141592G; hence the chord of 1° or GO' is 0.01*453, and
if KK it must be 0.0029089. Therefore, by similar triangles, we have
0.0029089 : 1G0 :: 1 : Ans. = ^^.
25. In the triangle, ABC, we have given the angles
A = 32°, and B = 84°. The side AB is produced, and
the exterior angle CBD thus formed, is bisected by the
line BE, and the angle A is also bisected by the line AE,
BE and AE meeting in the point E. What is the angle
C, and what is the relation between the angles C and E'
Ans. C=64°; E= | O.
26. Suppose a line to be drawn in any direction be-
tween two parallels. Bisect the two interior angles thus
formed on either side of the connecting line, and prove
that the bisecting lines meet each other at right angles,
and that they are the sides of a right-angled triangle of
which the line connecting the parallels is the hypotenuse.
27. If the two diagonals of a trapezoid be drawn,
show that two similar triangles will be formed, the
parallel sides of the trapezoid being homologous sidea
of the triangles. "What will be the relative areas of
these triangles?
( The triangles will be to each other
Ans. < as the squares on the parallel sides
( of the trapezoid.
28. If from the extremities of the base of any triangle,
lines be drawn to any point within the triangle, forming
with the base another triangle; how will the vertical
angle in this last triangle compare with that in the
original triangle?
It will be as much greater than the angle
in the original triangle as the sum of
Ans. \ angles at the base of the new triangle is
less than the sum of those at the base
of the first.
29. The two parallel sides of a trapezoid are 12 and
20, respectively, and their perpendicular distance is 8.
If a line whose length is 14.5 be drawn between the in-
clined sides and parallel to the parallel sides, what is the
area of the trapezoid, and what the area of each part,
,respectively, into which the trapezoid is divided?
'Area of the whole, 128 square units;
"smaller part, 33&"
Ana \ "larger " 94|"
Dividing line at the distance of 2| from
shortei parallel side.
80. If we assume the diameter of the earth to be
13*
7956 miles, and the eye of an observer be 40 feet above
the level of the sea, how far distant will an object be,
that is just visible on the earth's surface. (Employ Th.
18, B. HI, after reducing miles to feet.)
Ans. 40992 feet = 7 miles 4032 feet.
31. The diameter of a circle is 4; what is the area of
the inscribed equilateral triangle? Ans. 3^3.
32. Three brothers, whose residences are at the ver-
tices of a triangular area, the sides of which are severally
10, 11, and 12 chains, wish to dig a well which shall be
at the same distance from the residence of each. Deter-
mine the point for the well, and its distance from their
residences.
Remark. — Construct a triangle, the sides of which are, respectively,
10, 11, and 12. The sides of this triangle will be the chords of a cir-
cle whose radius is the required distance. To find the center of this
circle, bisect either two of the sides of the triangle by perpendiculars,
and their intersection will be the center of the circle, and the location
of the well.
Ans. The well is distant 6.405 chains, nearly, from each
residence.
t 33. The base of an isosceles triangle is 12, and the
equal sides are 20 each. "What is the length of the per-
pendicular from the vertex to the base; and what the
area of the triangle?
Ans. Perpendicular, 19.07; area, (19.07) x 6.
34. The hypotenuse of a
ri^ht-angled triangle is 45
iLches, and the difference be-
tween the two sides is 8.45
inches. Construct the triangle.
Suppose the triangle drawn and
-^presented by ABC, DCbeing the
difference between the two sides.
Now, by inspection, we discover the
steps to be taken for the construc-
tion of the triangle As AD = AB,

the angle ABB, must be equal to the angle DBA, and each equal
to 45°.
Therefore, draw any line, AC, and from an assumed point in it
as D, draw BD, making the angle ADB = 45°. Take from a
scale of equal parts, 8.45 inches, and lay them off from D to C, and
with C as a center, and GB = 45 inches as a radius, describe an
ore cutting BD in B. Draw CB, and from B, draw BA at rigb,
angles to AC; then is ABC the triangle sought.
Arts. AB =27.3; AC = 35.76, when carefully constructed.
35. Taking the same triangle as in the last problem, if
we draw a line bisecting the right angle, where will it
meet the hypotenuse?
Ans. 19.5 from B; and 25.5 from C.
36. The diameters of the hind and fore wheels of a
carriage, are 5 and 4 feet, respectively; and their centers
are 6 feet asunder. At what distance from the fore wheels
will the line, passing through their centers, meet the
ground, which is supposed level? Ans. 24 feet.
37. If the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle is 35,
and the side of its inscribed square 12, what are its sides?
Ans. 28 and 21.
38. What are the sides of a right-angled triangle
naving the least hypotenuse, in which if a square be in-
scribed, its side will be 12?
(The sides are equal to 24 each, and the
Ans. < least hypotenuse is double the diagonal
l of the square.
39. The radius of "a circle is 25; what is the area or a
sector of 50°?
Remark. — First find tne length of an arc of 50° in a circle whestf
radius is unity. Then 25 times that will be the length of an are of
the same number of degrees in a circle of which the radius is 25.
, , 1Q ,- • 3.14159265
Length of arc 1 radius unity = t~jjj •
» "50° " "=1-04719755 x 5.
6
. . , 1.04719755 „ 10- „ 25 „„„„„„„ .
Area of sector = ^ X 12o x — = 272 7077. Ans.
BOOK VI.
ON THE INTERSECTIONS OF PLANES, AND THE EEL-
ATIVE POSITIONS OF PLANES AND OF PLANES
AND LINES.
DEFINITIONS.
A Plane has been already defined to be a surface, sucb
that the straight line which joins any two of its points
will lie entirely in that surface. (Def. 9, page 9.)
1. The Intersection or Common Section of two planes is
the line in which they meet.
2. A Perpendicular to a Plane is a line which makes
right angles with every line drawn in the plane through
the point in which the perpendicular meets it; and, con-
versely, the plane is perpendicular to the line. The
point in which the perpendicular meets the plane is
called the foot of the perpendicular.
3. A Diedral Angle is the separation or divergence of
two planes proceeding from a common line, and is meas-
ured by the angle incl ided between two lines drawn
Dne in each plane, perpendicular to their common sec
tion at the same point.
The common section of the two planes is called the
edge of the angle, and the planes are its facet.
4. Two Planes are perpendicular to each other, when their
diedral angle is a right angle.
5. A Straight Line is parallel to a plane, when it will
lot meet the plane, however far produced.
6. Two Planes are parallel, when they will not intersect,
however far produced in all directions.
7. A Solid or Polyedral Angle is the separation or diver-
gence of three or more plane angles, proceeding from a
common point, the two sides of each of the plane angles
being the edges of diedral angles formed by these plane
Angles.
The common point from which the plane angles pro-
ceed i3 called the vertex of the solid angle, and the inter-
sections of its bounding planes are called its edges.
8. A Triedral Angle is a solid angle formed by three
plane angles.
THEOREM I.
Two straight lines which intersect each other, two parallel
straight lines, and three points not in the same straight line,
will severally determine the position of a plane.
Let AB aud AC be two lines
Intersecting each other at the
point A; then will these lines
determine a plane. For, conceive
a plane to be passed through AB,
and turned about AB as au axis
until it contains the point C in the line AC. The plane,
in this position, contains the lines AB and AC, and will
contain them in no other. Again, let AB and DE be
\\\o parallel straight lines, and take at pleasure two
points, A and B, in the one, and two points, D and E,
in the other, and draw .417and BD. The last lines, AB, AE,
or the lines AB, DB fvom what precedes, determine the posi-
tion of the parallels AB, BE. And again, if A, B, and Q
be three points not in the same straight line, and we draw
the lines AB and AC, it follows, from the first part of this
proposition, that these points fix the plane.

GEOMETRY.
Cor. A straight line and a point out ot it determine
the position of a plane.

THEOREM II.
If two planet meet each other, their common points will }e
found in, and form one straight line.
Let B and D he any two of the
points common to the two planes,
and join these points by the straight
line BD; then will BD contain all
the points common to the two planes,
and be their intersection. For, suppose the planes have
a common point out of the line BD; then, (Cor. Th. 1),
since a straight line and a point out of it determine a
plane, there would be two planes determined by this one
line and siugle point out of it, which is absurd. Hence
the common section of two planes is a straight line.
Remark.—The truth of this proposition is implicitly assumed in the
definitions of this Book.
THEOREM III.
If a straight line stand at right angles to each of two other
straight lines at their point of intersection, it will be at right
angles to the plane of those lines.
Let AB stand at right angles to .E^Fand
CD, at their point of intersection A. Then
AB will be at right angles to any other
line drawn through A in the plane, pass-
ing through EF, CD, and, of course, at
right angles to the plane itself. (Def. 2.)
Through A, draw any line, A 67, in the
plane EF, CD, and from any point 67, draw GE parallel
to AD. Take HF = AH, and join F and G and produce
WG to D. Because HG is parallel to AD, we have
FH: HA :: FG : GD.

But, in this proportion, the first couplet is a ratic of
equality; therefore the last couplet is also a ratio of
Bquality,
That is, FG = GD, or the line FD is bisected in G.
. Draw BD, BG, and BF.
Now, in the triangle AFD, as the base FD is bisected
in G, we have,
AT + AD = 2A G + 2 GF' (1) (Th. 42, B. I).
Also, as DF is the base of the a BDF, we have by the
same theorem,
~BF* +~BDi = 2BG* + 2GF* (2)
By subtracting (1) from (2), and observing that BF*—
AF' = AB\ because BAF is a right angle; and BD' —
AD* = AB\ because BAD is a right angle, we shall have,
AB" + AB" = 2BG* — 2AG .
dividing by 2, and transposing AG , and we have,
AB' + AG =BG .
This last equation shows that BA G is a right angle.
But AG is any line drawn through A, in the plane EF,
CD; thnrefore AB is at right angles to any line in the
plane, and, of course, at right angles to the plane itself
Cor. 1. The perpendicular BA is shorter than any of
the oblique lines BF, BG, or BD, drawn from the point
B to the plane; hence it is the shortest distance from a
point to a plane.
Cor. 2. But one perpendicular can be erected to a plane
from a given point in the plane; for, if there could be
two, the plane of these perpendiculars would intersect
the given plane in some line, as AG, and both the per-
pendiculars would be at right angles to this intersection
at the same point, which is impossible.
Cor. 3. But one perpendicular can be let fall from a
given point out of a plane on the plane; for, if there can
be two, let BG and BA be such perpendiculars, then
would the triangle BAG be right angled at both A and
G, which is impossible.
THEOREM IV.
If from any point of a perpendicular to a p Jane, oblique
lines be drawn to different points in the plane, those oblique
lines which meet the plane at equal distances from the. foot of
the perpendicular are equal; and those which meet the plane
at unequal distances from the foot of the perpendicular are
unequal, the greater distances corresponding to the longer
oblique lines.
Take any point B in
the perpendicular BA to
the plane ST, and draw
the oblique lines BC,
BD, and BE, the points
C, B, and E, being equally
distant from A, the foot
of the perpendicular.
Produce AE to F, and
draw BF; then will BC= BD = BE, and BF> BE.
For, the triangles BAC, BAD, and BAE are all right-
angled at A, the side BA is common, and AC= AD= AE
by construction, hence, (Th. 16, B. [), BC= BD = BE.
Moreover, since AFy.AE, the oblique line BF> BE.
Cor. If any number of equal oblique lines le drawn
from the point B to the plane, they will all meet the
plane in the circumference of a circle having the foot of
the perpendicular for its center. It follows from this,
that, if three points be taken in a plane equally distant
from a point out of it, the center of the circle whose cir-
cumference passes through these points will he the foot of
Hie oeroendicnlar drawn from the point to the plane.


THEOREM V.
the line which Joins any point of a perpendicular to a
plane, with the point in which a line in the plane is inter-
tected, at right angles, by a line through the foot of the per
pendicular, will be at right angles to the line in the plane
Let AB be perpendic-
nlar to the plane ST, and
AD i line through its foot
at rigut angles to EF, a line
in the plane. Connect D
with any point, as B, of the
perpendicular; and BD will
be perpendicular to EF.
Make DF = DE, and join B to the points E a-J
F. Since DE' = DF, and the angles at D are ri^ht
angles, the oblique lines, AE and AF, are equal; aed,
since AE= AF, we have, (Th. 4), BE=BF; therefore
the line BD has two points, B and D, each equally distant
from the extremities E and F of the line EF, and hence
BB is perpendicular to EF at its middle point D.
Cor. Since FD is perpendicular to the two lines AB
nnd BD at their intersection, it is perpendicular to their
plane ADB, (Th. 3).
Scholium. — The inclination of a line to a plane is measured by the
angle included between the given line and the lire which joins the
point in which it meets the plane and the foot of the perpendimilal
drawn from any point of the line to the plane; thus, the angle BFA \&
the inclination of the line BF to the plane ST.
THEOREM VI.
If either of two parallels is perpendicular to a plane, the
other is also perpendicular to the plane.
Let BA and ED be two parallels, of which one, BA,
is perpendicular to the plane ST; then will the other also
be perpendicular to the same plane.
14
GEOMETRY.

The two parallels de-
termine a plane which
intersects the given plane
in AD; through p draw
MN perpendicular to
AD, then, (Cor., Th. 5,)
tvil. MN be perpendicu-
lar to the plane BAD,
and the angle MDE is
therefore a right angle; but EDA is also a right angle,
since BA and ED are parallel, and BAD is a right angle
by hypothesis; hence, ED is perpendicular to the two
lines MD and AD in the plane ST; it is therefore perpen-
dicular to the plane, (Th. 3).
Cor. 1. The converse of this proposition is also true,
that is, if two straight lines are both perpendicular to the same
plane, the lines are parallel.
For, suppose BA and ED to be two perpendiculars; if
not parallel, draw through D a parallel to BA, and this
last line will be perpendicular to the plane; but ED is
a perpendicular by hypothesis, and we should have two
perpendiculars erected to the plane at the 6ame point,
which is impossible, (Cor. 2, Th. 3).
Cor. 2. If two lines lying in the same plane are each
parallel to a third line not in the same plane, the two
lines are parallel. For, pass a plane perpendicular to
the third line, and it will be perpendicular to aaoh of tlva
olhers; hence they are parallel
THEOREM VII.
A straight line is parallel to a plane, when it is parallel
to a line in the plane.
Suppose the line MN to be parallel to the line CD, in
the plane ST: then will MNhe parallel to the plane ST
For, CD being in the plane
ST, and at the same time g
parallel to MN, it must he the ~
intersection of the pln.ne of
these parallels with the plane
ST; hence, if MN meet the
plane ST, it must do so in the
line CD, or CD produced; but MN and CD are parallel,
and cannot meet; therefore MN, nowever far produced,
can have no point in the plane ST, and hence, (Def. 5), it
is parallel to this plane.
THEOREM VIII.
If two lines are parallel, they will be equally inclined to
any given plane.
Let AB and CD be
two parallels, and ST
any plane met by them
in the points A and
C; then will the lines
AB and CD be equally
inclined to the plane
ST.
For, take any distance, AB, on one of these parallels,
and make CD = AB, and draw AC and BD. From the
points B and D let fall the perpendiculars, BE and DF,
on the plane; join their feet by the line EF, and draw
AE and CF.
Now, since AB is eqiial and parallel to CD, ABDC »
a parallelogram, and BD is equal and parallel to A J,
and BD is parallel to the plane ST, (Th. 7); and, since
BE and DF are both perpendicular to this plane, they
are parallel; but BD and EF are in the plane of these
parallels; and as EF is in the plane ST, and BD is
parallel to this plane, these two lines must be parallel
and equal, and BDFE is also a parallelogram Now,

we have shown that BD is equal and parallel to AC, and
EF equal and parallel to BD; hence, (Cor. 2, Th. 6),
EF is equal and parallel t$ AC, and ACFE is a parallel-
ogram, and AE = CF. The triangles ABE and CDS
have, then, the sides of the one equal to the sides of the
other, eacli to each, and their angles are consequently
equal; that is, the angle BAE is equal to the aigle
DCF; hut these angles measure the inclination of the
lines AB and CD to the plane ST, (Scholium, Th. 5).
Scholium. — The converse of this proposition is not generally true;
that is, straight lines equally inclined to the same plane are not neces-
sarily parnilel.
THEOREM IX.
The intersections of tiro parallel planes by a third plane,
ire parallel.
Let the planes QR and ST he intersected by the third
plane, AD: then will the intersections, AB and CD, be
parallel.
Since the lines AB and CD are in the same plane, if
they are not parallel, they will
meet if sufficiently produced;
but they cannot meet out of the
planes QR and ST, in which
they are respectively found;
therefore, any poiut common to
the lines, must be at the same
time common to the planes; and
iince the planes arc parallel,
Ihey have no common point, and the lines, therefore, io
not intersect; hence they are parallel.
THEOREM X.
If tico planes are perpendicular to the same straight line,
they are parallel to each other.
Let QR and ST be two planes, perpendicular to trie
line AB: then will these planes be parallel.

151

For, if not parallel, suppose M to be a point in their
line of intersection, and
from this point draw
lines to the extremities
of the perpendicular
A B, thus forming a tri-
angle, MAB. Now,
since the line AB is
perpendicular to both
planes, it is perpendicular to each of the lines MA and
MB, drawn through its feet in the planes, (Def. 2);
hence, the triangle has two right angles, which is impos-
sible; the planes cannot therefore meet in any point as
M, and are consequently parallel.
Cor. Conversely: The straight line which is perpendicu-
lar to one of two parallel planes, is also perpendicular to the
other. For, if AB be perpendicular to the plane QR,
draw in the other plane, through the point in which the
perpendicular meets it, any line, as AC. The plane of
the lines AB and A C will intersect the plane QR in the
line BD ; and since the planes are parallel by hypothesis,
the lines AC and BD must be parallel, (Th. 9); but the
angle DBA is a right angle; hence, BA C must be a right
angle, and the line BA is perpendicular to any line what-
ever drawn in the plane through the point A; BA is
therefore perpendicular to the plane ST.
THEOREM XI.
Jf two straight lines be drawn in any direction through
parallel planes, the planes will cut the lines proportionally.
Conceive three planes to be parallel, as represented
in the figure, and take any points, A and B, in the first
and third planes, and draw AB, the line passing through
the second plane at E.
14* L
GEOMETRY.
A
—-"-"^TC'
\
V
\
K
-ir-n
ti
\
\
\
Also, take any other two points, as
C and D, in the first and third planes,
and draw CD, the line passing through
the second plane at F.
Join the two lines by the diagonal
AD, which passes through the second
plane at G. Draw BD, EG, GF, and
A C. "We are now to prove that,
AE : EB :: CF : FD.
For the sake of brevity, put AG=X, and GD= Y.
As the planes are parallel, BD is parallel to EG; from
the two triangles ABD and AEG, we have, (Th. 17,
B.II);
A E : EB :: X : Y.
Also, as the planes are parallel, GF is parallel to AC,
and we have,
CF : FD :: X: Y.
By comparing the proportions, and applying Th. 6,
B. II, we have
AE : EB :: CF: FD.
S^.
THEOREM XII.
If a straight line is perpendicular to a plane, all planes
passing through that line will be perpendicular to the plane.
Let MNbe a plane, and ABaper-
pendicular to it. Let BC be any
other plane, passing through AB;
this plane wnll be perpendicular to
MN.
Let BD be the common intersec-
tion of the two planes, and from
the point B, draw in MN BE at right angles to DB.
Then, as A B is perpendicular to the plane MN, it is
perpendicular to every line in that plane, passing through
M
\ BQ
163
B; (Def. 2,); therefore, ABE is a right angle. But the
angle ABE, (Def. 3), measures the inclination of the two
planes; therefore, the plane CB is perpendicular to the
plane MN; and thus we can show that any other plane,
passing through AB, will be perpendicular to MN.
Honce the theorem.
THEOREM XIII.
Jf two planes are perpendicular to edfch other, and a line
be drawn in one of them perpendicular to their common in-
tersection, it will be perpendicular to the other plane.
Let the two planes, QR and ST, be perpeudicular to
each other, and draw in QR the line CD at right angles
to their common intersection, R V; then will this line be
perpendicular to the plane ST.
In the plane *STdraw ED, perpen-
dicular to VR at the point D.
Then, since the planes QR and ST
are perpendicular to each other, the
angle CDE is a right angle, and
CD is perpendicular to the two
lines, ED and VR, passing through
its foot in the plane ST. CD is therefore perpendicular
to the plane ST, (Th. 3).
Cor. Conversely: if we erect a perpendicular to the
plane ST, at any point, D, of its intersection with the
plane QR, this perpendicular will lie in the plane QR
For, if it be not in this plane, we can draw in the plane
the line CD, at right angles to VR; and, from what has
been shown above, CD is perpendicular to the plane ST,
and we should thus have two perpendiculars erected to
the plane, ST, at the same point, which is impossible,
(Cor. 2, Th. 3}.

GEOMETRIC.
THEOREM XIV.
The common intersection of two planes, both of which art
perpendicular to a third plane, will also be perpendicular io
the third plane.
Let MN be the common
intersection of the two
planes, QR and VX, both
of which are perpendicular
to the plane ST; then will
MNhc perpendicular to the
plane ST. For, if we erect
a perpendicular to the plane
ST, at the point M, it will
lie in both planes at the
same time, (Cor. Th. 13); and this perpendicular must
therefore be their intersection. Hence the theorem.

THEOREM XV.
Parallel straight lines included between parallel planes,
are equal.
Let AB and DCbe two parallel lines,
included by the two parallel planes,
QR and ST; then will AB = DC.
For, the plane AC, of the parallel
lines, intersects the planes, QR and ST,
in the parallel lines, AD and BC,
(Th. 9); hence ABCD is a parallelogram, and its oppo-
site sides, AB and DC, are equal.
Cor. It follows from this proposition, that parallel planes
are everywhere equally distant; for, two perpendiculars
drawn at pleasure between the two planes are parallel
lines, (Cor. 1, Th. 6), and hence are equal; but these per-
pendiculars measure the distance between the planes.
V
D\
s
B
V
*\
^
165


THEOREM XVI.
Two planes are parallel when two lines not parallel, lying
in the one, are respectively parallel to two lines lying in iht
other.
Let QR and ST be
two planes, the first
containing the two
lines AB and CD
which intersect each
other at E, and the
second the two lines
LM and NO, respect-
ively parallel to AB
and CD; then will
these planes be par-
allel.
For, if the two planes
are not parallel, they must intersect when sufficiently
produced; and their common section lying in both planes
at the same time, would be a line of the plane QR. Now,
the lines AB and CD intersect each other by hypothesis;
hence one or both of them must meet the common sec-
tion of the two planes. Suppose AB to meet this com-
mon section; then, since AB and LM are parallel, they
determine a plane, and AB cannot meet the plane ST in
a point out of the line LM; but AB and LM being par-
allel, have no common point. Ilence, neither AB nor
CD can meet the common section of the two planes; that
k, they have no common section, and are therefore par-
ul .el.
Cor. Since two lines which intersect each other, deter,
mine a plane, it follows from this proposition, that iht
plane of two intersecting lines is parallel to the plane of twt
other intersecting lines respectively parallel to the first lines
GEOMETRT.
THEOREM XVII.
When two intersecting lines are respectively parallel to two
oiher intersecting lines lying in a different plane, the anglet
formed by the last two lines will be equal to those formed by
the first two, each to each, and the planes of the angles will fa
parallel.
Let QR be the plane
of the two lines AB
and CD, which inter-
sect each other at the
point E, and ST the
plane of the two lines
LM and NO, respect-
ively parallel to AB
and CD; then will the
|_ BUD = L MPO,
and l_ BEC = |_
MPN, etc., and the
planes QR and ST
will be parallel.
That the plane of one set of angles is parallel to that
of the other, follows from the Corollary to Theorem 16;
we have then only to show that the angles are equal,
each to each.
Take any points, B and D, on the lines AB and CD,
and draw BD. Lay off PM, equal to and in the same
direction with EB, and PO, equal to and in the same
direction with ED, and draw MO. Now, since the planoa
QR and ST are parallel, and ED is equal and parallel to
PO, ED OP is a parallelogram, and DO is equal and par
allel to EP. For the same reason, BM is equal and
parallel to EP; therefore, BDOMis a parallelogram, and
MO is equal and parallel to BD. Hence the A's, EBD
and PMO, have the sides of the one equal to the sides
nf the other, each to each; they are therefore equal, and

the L MPO = the | BED. In the same manner it can
be proved that \_BEC= [_MPN, etc.
Cor. 1. The plane of the parallels AB and LM is in-
tersected by the plane of the parallels CD and NO, in the
line EP. Now, EB and ED are the intersections of thefi
two planes with the plane QR, and PM and PO are the
intersections of the same planes with the parallel plana
ST. It has just been proved that the |_ BED = |_ MP0.
Hence, if the diedral angle formed by two -planes, be cut by
two parallel planes, the intersections of the faces of the diedral
angle with one of these planes will include an angle equal
to that included by the intersections of the faces with the other
plane.
Cor. 2. The opposite triangles formed by joining the cor-
responding extremities of three equal and parallel stroljht
lines lying in different planes, will be equal and the plane i of
the triangles will be parallel.
Let EP, BM, and DO, be three equal and parallel
straight lines lying in different planes. By joining their
corresponding extremities, we have the triangles EBD
and PMO. Now, since EP and BM are equal and
parallel, EBMP is a parallelogram, and EB is equal and
parallel to PM; in the same manner, we show that EB
is equal and parallel to PO, and BD to MO; hence the
triangles are equal, ha ring the three sides of the one,
respectively, equal to the three sides of the other.
That their planes are parallel, follows from Cor., Th^o
rem 16
THEOREM XVIII.
Any one of the three plane angles bounding a triedral
angle, is less than the sum of the other two.
Let A be the vertex of a solid angle, bounded by the
three plane angles, BAC, BAD, and DAG; then will any
one of these three angles be less than the sum of tho

other two. To establish this proposition, we have only
to compare the greatest of the three
angles with the sum of the other
two.
Suppose, then, BAC to be the
greatest angle, and draw in its plane B<
the line AE, making the angle
CAE equal to the angle CAD. On "d
AE, take any point, E, and through it draw the line CEB.
Take AD, equal to AE, and draw BD and DC.
Now, the two triangles, CAD and-CAE, having two
sides and the included angle of the one equal to the two
sides and included angle of the other, each to each, are
equal, and CE = CD; but in the triangle, BDC, BC<
BD + DC. Taking EC from the first member of this
inequality, and its equal, DC, from the second, we have,
BE < BD. In the triangles, BAE and BAD, BA is
common, and AE = AD by construction; but the third
side, BD, in the one, is greater than the third side, BE,
in the other; hence, the angle BAD is greater than the
Angle BAE, (Th. 22, B. I); that is, [_BAE < \_BAD;
adding the [_EAC to the first member of this inequality,
and its equal, the \__DAC, to the other, we have
[_BAE+ [_EAC<. [_BAD + \_DAC.
And, as the |_ BA C is made up of the angles BAE and
EAC, we have, as enunciated,
\_BAC< \_BAD + l_DAC.
THEOREM XIX.
The sum of the plane angles forming any solid angle, i*
always less than four right angles.
Let the planes which form the solid angle at A, be cut
by another plane, which we may call the plane of the
base, BCDE. Take any point, a, in this plane, and draw
aB, aC, aD, aE, etc., thus making as many triangles on
169

the plaice of the base as there are tri-
angular planes forming the solid angle
A. Now, since the sum of the angles
of every A is two right angles, the sum
of all the angles of the A's which
have their vertex in A, is equal to the
Bum of all angles of the A's which have
their vertex in a. But, the angle3 BCA
+ A CD, are, together, greater than
the angles BCa + aCD, or BCD, by the last proposition.
That is, the sum of all the angles at the bases of the A's
which have their vertex in A, is greater than the sum of
all the angles at the bases of the A's which have their
vertex in a. Therefore, the sum of all the angles at a is
greater than the sum of all the angles at A; but the sum
of all the angles at a is equal to four right angles; there-
fore, the sum of all the angles at A is less than four right
angles.
THEOREM XX.
If two solid angles are formed by three plane angles respect-
ively equal to each other, the planes which contain the equal
angles will be equally inclined to each other.
Letthe \_ASC=the[_D TF,
the |_ ASB=the |_ D TE, and
the \_BSC= the [_ETF; then
will the inclination of the
planes, ASC, ASB, be equal
to that of the planes, DTF,
DTE.
Having taken SB at pleas-
ure, draw BO perpendicular
to the plane ASC; from the point O, at which that perpen
dicular meets the plane, draw OA and OC, perpendicular
to SA and SC; draw AB and BC; next take TE = SB,
and draw EP perpendicular to the plane DTF} from the

15
point P, draw PD and PF, perpendicular to TD and
TF; lastly, draw DE and EF.
The triangle SAB, is right-angled at A, and the tri-
angle TDE, at D, (Th. 5); and since the |_ ^.S^ = the
|_ D TE, we have |_ SB A = |_ TED; likewise, SB=TE;
therefore, the triangle SAB is equal to the triangle TDE;
hence, SA = TD, and AB = DE. In like manner it
may be shown that SC = TF, and BC = EF. That
granted, the quadrilateral SAOC is equal to the quadri-
lateral TDPF, for, place the angle ASC upon its equal,
DTF, and because SA = TD, and SC= TF, the point A
will fall on D, and the point C on F; and, at the same time,
AO, which is perpendicular to SA, will fall on PD, which
is perpendicular to TD, and, in like manner, OCon PF;
wherefore, the point O will fall on the point P, and A O
will be equal to DP. But the triangles, AOB, DPE, are
right angled at O and P; the hypotenuse AB = DE, and
the side AO = DP; hence, those triangles are equal,
(Cor, Th. 39, B. I), and [_OAB=\_PDE. The angle OAB
is the inclination of the two planes, ASB, ASC; the angle
PDE is that of the two planes, DTE, DTF; conse-
quently, those two inclinations are equal to each other.
Hence the theorem.
Scholium 1. — Tho angles which form the solid angles at Sand 1;
may bo of such relative magnitudes, that the perpendiculars, BO and
EP, may not fall -within the bases, ASC and DTF; but they will
always either fall on the bases, or on the planes of the bases produced,
and 0 will have the same relative situation to A, S, and C, as P has
to D, T, and F. In case that 0 and P fall on the planes of th6 bases
produced, the angles BCO and EFP, would be obtuse angles; but the
demonstration of the problem would not be varied in the least.
Scholium 2. — If the plane angles bounding one of the triedral
angles be equal to those of the other, each to each, and also be simi
larly arranged about the triedral angles, these solid angles will be ab
solutely equal. For it was shewn, in the course of the above demon-
stration, that the quadrilaterals, SAOCand TDPF, were equal; and
on being applied, the point 0 falls on the point P; and since the trian-
gles A OB and DPE are equal, the perpendiculars OB and PE ars
disc equal. Now, because the plane angles are like arranged about
the triedral angles, these perpendiculars lie in the same direction;
hence the point li will fall on the point E, and the solid angles
will exactly coincide.
Scholium 3. — When the planes of the equal angles are not like dis-
posed about the triedral angles, it would not be possible to make these
triedral angles coincide; and still it would be true that the planes of
the equal angles are equally inclined to each other. Hence, these
triedral angles have the plane and diedral angles of the one, equal to
the plane and diedral angles of the other, each to each, without having
of themselves that absolute equality which admits of superposition.
Magnitudes which aro thus equal in all their component parts, but
will not coincide, ween applied the one to the other, are said to be
tymmetrically equal. Thus, two triedral angles, bounded by plane
kuglss equal each to each, but not like placed, are symmetrical triedral
tmglet.
BOOK VII.
SOLID GEOMETET.
DEFINITIONS.
L A Polyedron is a solid, or volume, bounded on ail
-aides by planes. The bounding planes are called the
faces of the polyedron, and theii intersections are its
edges.
2. A Prism is a polyedron, having two of its faces,
called bases, equal polygons, whose planes and homolo-
gous sides are parallel. The other, or lateral faces, are
parallelograms, and constitute the convex surface of the
prism.
The bases of a prism are distinguished by the terms, •
upper and lower; and the altitude of the prism is the per
pendicular distance between its bases.
Prisms are denominated triangular, quadrangular, pent,
angular, etc., according as their bases are triangles, quad-
rilaterals, pentagons, etc.
3. A Right Prism is one in which the planes of the
lateral faces are perpendicular to the planes of the bases.
4. A Parallelopipedon is a prism
whose bases are parallelograms.
5. A Rectangular Parallelopipedon
is a right parallelopipedon, with
rectangular bases.
^
178
/
/
6. A Cube or Hexaedron is a rectangu-
lar parallelopipodon, whose faces are all
equal squares.
7. A Diagonal of a Polyedron is a straight
line joining the vertices of two solid
angles not adjacent.
8. Similar Polyedrons are those which
are bounded by the same number of similar polygons
like placed, and whose homologous solid angles are
equal.
Similar parts, whether faces, edges, diagonals, or
angles, similarly placed in similar polyedrons, are termed
homologous.
9. A Pyramid is a polyedron, having
for one of its faces, called the base, any
polygon whatever, and for its other faces
triangles having a common vertex, the
sides opposite which, in the several trian-
gles, being the sides of the base of the
pyramid.
10. The Vertex of a pyramid is the
common vertex of the triangular faces.
11. The Altitude of a pyramid is the perpendicula*
distance from its vertex to the plane of its base.
12. A Right Pyramid is one whose base is a regular
polygon, and whose vertex is in the perpendicular to the
base at its center. This perpendicular is called the axU
of the pyramid.
. 13. The Slant Height of a right pyramid is the perpen-
dicular distance from the vertex to one of the sides of
the base.
14. The Frustum of a Pyramid is a portion of the pyr-
amid included between its base and a section made by a
plane parallel to the base.
Pyramids, like prisms, are named from the forms of
their bases.

15*
GEOMETRY.

16. A Cylinder is a body, having for
its ends, or bases, two equal circles,
the planes of which are perpendicular
to the line joining their centers; the
remainder of its surface may be con-
ceived as formed by the motion of a
line, which constantly touches the cir-
cumferences of the bases, while it
remains parallel to the line which
joins their centers.
We may otherwise define the cylinder as a body gen-
erated by the revolution of a rectangle about one of its
sides as an immovable axis.
The sides of the rectangle perpendicular to the axis
generate the bases of the cylinder; and the side opposite
the axis generates its convex surface. The line joining
the centers of the bases of the cylinder is its axis, and ia
also its altitude.
If, within the base of a cylinder, any polygon be in-
scribed, and on it, as a base, a right prism be con-
structed, having for its altitude that of the cylinder, such
prism is said to be inscribed in the cylinder, and the cylin-
der is said to circumscribe the prism.
Thus, in the last figure, ABCDEc is an inscribed
prism, and it is plain that all its lateral edges are con
tained in the convex surface of the cylinder. ^
If, about the base of a cylinder, any
polygon be circumscribed, and on it,
as a base, a right prism be con-
structed, having for its altitude that
of the cylinder, such prism is said to
be circumscribed about the cylinder, and
the cylinder is said to be inscribed in
the prism.
Thus, ABClJEFc is a circum- r\
scribed prism; and it is plain that

175

the lino, mn, which joins the points of
tangency of the sides, EF and ef, with
the circumferences of the bases of the
cylinder, is common to the convex sur-
faces of the cylinder and prism.
16. A Cone is a body bounded by a
circle and the surface generated by the
motion of a straight line, which con-
stantly passes through a point in the
perpendicular to the plane of the circle
at its center, and the different points in
its circumference.
The cone may be otherwise defined as a body gene
rated by the revolution of a right-angled triangle about
one of its sides as an immovable axis. The other side
of the triangle will generate the base of the cone, while
the hypotenuse generates the convex surface.
The side about which the generating triangle revolves
is the axis of the cone, and is at the same time its altitude.
If, within the base of the cone, any
polygon be inscribed, and on it, as a
base, a pyramid be constructed, having
for its vertex that of the cone, such
pyramid is said to be inscribed in the
cone, and the cone is said to circumscribe
the pyramid.
Thus, in the accompanying figure,
V—ABCDE, is an inscribed pyramid,
and it is plain that all its lateral edges
are contained in the convex surface of
the cone.
If, about the base of a cone, any poly-
gon be circumscribed, and on it, as a
base, a pyramid be constructed, having
for its vertex that of the cone, such pyramid is said to be
circumscribed about the cone, and the cone is said to be
inscribed in the pyramid.

17. The Frustum of a Cone is the portion of the cone that
is included between its base and a section made by a plane
parallel to the base.
18. Similar Cylinders, and also Similar Cones, are such as
have their axes proportional to the radii of their bases.
19. A Sphere is a body bounded by one uniformly-curvec
surface, all the points of vhicb ire at the 3ame distanc*
from a certain point within, called the .enter.
We may otherwise define the sphere, as a body gene-
rated by the revolution of a semicircle about *ts diameter
as an immovable axis.
20. A Spherical Sector is that
portion of a sphere which is in-
cluded between the surfaces of
two cones having a common
axis, and their vertices at the
center of the sphere. Or, it is
that portion of the sphere which
is generated by a sector of the
generating semicircle.
21. The Radius of a Sphere is
a straight line drawn from the
center to any point in the surface; and the diameter in
a straight line drawn through the center, and limited on
both sides by the surface.
All the diameters of a sphere are equal, each being
twice the radius.
22. A Tangent Plane to a sphere is one which has a
single point in the surface of the sphere, all the others
being without it.
23. A Secant Plane to a sphere is one which has moro
than one point in the surface of the sphere, and lies
partly within and partly without it.
Assuming, what will presently be proved, that the in-
tersection of a sphere by a plane is a circle.
24. A Small Circle of a sphere is one whose plane does
not pass through ite center; and

177
25. A Great Circle of a sphere is one whose plane passes
through the center of the sphere.
26. A Zone of a sphere is the portion of its surface in-
cluded between the circumferences of any two of its paral-
lel circles, called the bases of the zone. When the plane
of one of these circles becomes tangent to the sphere, the
zone has a single base.
27. A Spherical Segment is a portion of the volume of a
sphere included between any two of its parallel circles,
called the bases of the segment.
The altitude of a zone, or of a segment, of a sphere,
is the perpendicular distance between the planes of its
bases.
28. The area of a surface is measured by the product
Of its length and breadth, and these dimensions are always
conceived to be exactly at right angles to each other.
29. In a similar manner, solids are measured by the
product of their length, breadth, and height, when all their
dimensions are at right angles to each other.
The product of the length and breadth of a solid, is
the measure of the surface of its base.
Let P, in the annexed fig-
ure, represent the measuring
unit, and AF the rectangular
solid to be measured.
A side of P is one unit in
length, one in breadth, and
one in height; one inch, one
foot, one yard, or any other unit that may be taken.
Then, 1 x 1 X 1 = 1, the unit cube.
Now, if the base of the solid, AC, is, as here repn •
sented, 5 units in length and 2 in breadth, it is obvious
that (5x2 = 10), 10 units, each equal to P, can be placed
on the base of AC, and no more; and as each of these
units will occupy a unit of altitude, therefore, 2 units of
M

GEOMETRY.
altitude will contain 20 solid units, 3 units of altitude,
30 solid units, and so on; or, in general terms, the num-
ber of square units in the base multiplied by the linear units
in perpendicular altitude, will give the solid units in any rect-
angular solid.
THEOREM I.
If the three plane faces bounding a solid angle of une prism
be equal to the three plane faces bounding a solid angle of
another, each to each, and similarly disposed, the prisms wilt
he equal.
Suppose A and a to be the vertices of two solid angles,
bounded by equal and similarly placed faces; then will
the prisms, ABCDE—N and abode—n, be e.qual.
For, if we place the base,
abode, upon its equal, the base
ABCDE, they will coincide;
and since the solid angles,
whose vertices are A and a, are
equal, the lines ab, ae, and ap,
respectively coincide with AB,
AE, and AP; but the faces, al and ao, of the one prism,
are equal, each to each, to the faces, AL and AO, of the
other; therefore pi and po coincide with PL and PO,
and the upper bases of the prisms also coincide: hence,
not only the bases, but all the lateral faces of the two
prisms coincide, and the prisms are equal.
Cor. If the two prisms are right, and have equal bases
and altitudes, they are equal. For, in this case, the rect-
angular faces, al and ao, of the one, are respectively
equal to the rectangular faces, AL and AO, of the other;
and hence the three faces bounding a triedral angle in
the one, are equal and like placed, to the faces bounding
a triedral angle in the othet


THEOREM II.
The opposite faces of any parallelopipedon axe equal, and
their planes are parallel.
Let ABCD—E be any parallelopipedon; then will ita
opposite faces be equal, and their planes will be parallel,
The bases ABCD and FEGH are
equal, and their planes are parallel,
by definitions 2 and 4 of this Book;
it remains tor us, therefore, only to
show that any two of the opposite
lateral faces are equal and parallel.
Since all the faces of the parallelopipedon are parallel-
ograms, AB is equal and parallel to DC, and AH is also
equal and parallel to DF; hence the angles HAB and
FBC are equal, and their planes are parallel, (Th. 17, B.
VI), and the two parallelograms, HABG and FDCE,
haA'ing two adjacent sides and the included angle of the
one equal to the two adjacent sides and included angle
of the other, are equal.
Cor. 1 Hence, of the six faces of the parallelopipedon,
any two lying opposite may be taken as the bases.
Cor. 2. The four diagonals of a parallelopipedon mutu-
ally bisect each other. For, if we draw AC and HE, we
shall form the parallelogram ACEH, of which the diago-
nals are AE and HC, and these diagonals are at the same
Lime diagonals of the parallelopipedon; but the diagonals
Df a parallelogram mutually bisect each other. Now, if
the diagonal FB be drawn, it and HC will bisect ea;b
other, since they are diagonals of the parallelogram
FHBC. In like manner we can show that if BO- bo
drawn, it will be bisected by AE. Hence, the four diag-
onals have a common point within the parallelopipedon.
ScnoLiuji. — It is seen at once that the six faces of a parallelopipe-
don intersect each other in twelve edges, four of which are equal to
HA, four to AB, and four to AD. Now, we may conceive the parallel-
opipsdon to be bounded by the planes determined by the three lineg
GEOMETK
AH, AB, and AD, and the three planes passed through the extremi
ties, H, B, and D, of these lines, parallel to the first three planes.

M

THEOREM III.
The convex surface of a right prism is measured ty iht
perimeter of its base multiplied by its altitude.
Let ABCDE—If be a right prism, of R
which AP is the altitude; then will its
convex surface he measured by
(AB + BC+CD + DE + EA) x AP.
For, its convex surface is made up of the
rectangles AL, BM, CN, etc., and each
rectangle is measured by the product of
its base by its altitude; but the altitude
of each rectangle is equal to AP, the alti-
tude of the prism; hence the convex sur-
face of the prism is measured by the pro-
duct of the sum of the bases of the rectangles, or the
perimeter of the base of the prism, by the common alti-
tude, AP.
Cor. Kight prisms will have equivalent convex surfaces,
when the products of the perimeters of their bases by
their altitudes are respectively equal; and, generally, their
convex surfaces will be to each other as the products of
the perimeters of their bases by their altitudes. Hence,
if the altitudes are equal, their convex surfaces will be as
the perimeters of their bases; and if the perimeters of
their bases are equal, the;r convex surfaces will be as
their altitudes.
THEOREM IV.
The twc sections of a prism made by parallel planes between
its bases are equal polygons.
Let the prism ABCDE—N be cut between its baser
by two parallel planes, making the sections QMS, etc..
181

and TVX, etc.; theu will these sections
be equal polygons.
For, since the secant planes are paral-
lel, their intersections, QR and TV, by
the plane of the face EAPO are parallel,
(Th. 9, B. VI); and being included be-
tween the parallel lines, AP and EO, they
are also equal. In the same manner we
may prove that MS is equal and parallel
to VX, and so on for the intersections of
the secant planes by the other faces of
the prism. Hence, these polygonal sections have the
sides of the one equal to the sides of the other, each to
each. The angles QRS and TVX are equal, because
their sides are parallel and lie in the same direction; and
in like manner we prove |_ ItSY = |_ VXZ, and so on
for the other corresponding angles of the polygons.
Therefore, these polygons are both mutually equilateral
and mutually equiangular, and consequently are equal.
Cor. A section of a prism made by a plane parallel to
the base of the prism, is a polygon equal to the base.
THEOREM V.
Two parallelopipedons, the one rectangular and the other
oblique, will be equal in volume when, having the same base
and altitude, two opposite lateral faces of the one are in the
planes of the corresponding lateral faces of the other.
Designating the parallelo-
pipedons by their opposite
diagonal letters, let iff be
the rectangular, and AL the
oblique, parallelopipedon, hav-
ing the same base, AC, and
the same altitude, namely,
the perpendicular distance be-

16
rween the parallel pranes, AC and EL. Also let the faje,
AK, be in the plane of the face, AF, and the face, DL, in
the plane of the face, DG. "We are now to prove that the
oblique parallelopipedon is equivalent to tne rectangular
parallelopipedon.
As the faces, AF and AK, are in the same plane, and
the parallelopipedons have the same altitude, EFK is a
straight line, and EF = IK, because each is equal to AB.
If from the whole line, EK, we take EF, and then from
the same line we take IK= EF, we shall have the re-
mainders, Eland FK, equal; and since AE and BFare
parallel, [_AEI = \__BFK; hence the A's, AEI and
BFK, are equal. Since HE and MI are both parallel to
DA, they are parallel to each other, and EIMK is a par-
allelogram; for like reasons, FKLG is a parallelogram,
and these parallelograms are equal, because two adjacent
sides and the included angle of the one are equal to two
adjacent sides and the included angle of the other. The
parallelograms, DE and CF, being the opposite faces of
the parallelopipedon, AG, are equal. Ilence, the three
plane faces bounding the triedral angle, E, of the trian-
gular prism, EAI—H, are equal, each to each, and like
placed, to the three plane faces bounding the triedral angle
F, of the triangular prism, FBK— G, and these prisms
are therefore equal, (Th. 1). Now, if from the whole
solid, EABK—H, we take the prism, EAI—H, there
wiJ remain the parallelopipedon, AL; and, if from the
seme solid, we take the prism, FBK—G, there will remain
the rectangular parallelopipedon, AG. Therefore, the
oblique and the rectangular parallelopipedons are equiva-
lent.
Cor. The volume of the rectangular parallelopipedoL,
AG, is measured by the base, ABCD, multiplied by the
altitude, AE, (Def. 29); consequently, the oblique paral-
lelopipedon is measured by the product of the same base
by the same altitude.
Scholium.--If neither of the parallelopipedons is rectangular, but
they still have the same base and the same altitude, and two opposito
lateral faces of the one are in the planes of the corresponding lateral
faces of the other, by precisely the same reasoning we could prove the
parallelopipedons equivalent. Hence, in general, any two parallelo-
pipedons will be equal in volume when, having the same base and altitude,
two opposite lateral faces of the one are in the planes of the correspond-
ing lateral faces of the other.
THEOREM VI.
Two parallelopipedons having equal bates and equal aid
tudes, are equivalent-
Let A G and AL be two paral- q p n
lelopipedons, having a common ^ \ /\ 7\r
lower base, and their upper bases M|v %k // /
I 11—•' uV / /
in the same plane, HF. Then / j/f/ /
will these parallelopipedons be /[ A A /
equivalent. \[- \l/
Since their upper bases are in • A B
the same plane, and the lines IM and KL are par-
allel, and also EF and IfG, these lines will intersect,
when produced, and form the parallelogram WOPQ,
which will be equal to the common lower basu of
the two parallelopipedons. Now, if a third parallelo-
pipedon be constructed, having BD for its lower base,
and OQ for its upper base, it will be equivalent to the par-
allelopipedon AG, aud also to the parallelopipedon AL,
(Th. 5, Scholium); hence, the two given parallelopipe-
dons, being each equivalent to the third parallelopipe-
dju, arc equivalent to each other.
Hence, two parallelopipedons having equal bases, etc.
THEOREM VII.
The volume of any parallelopipedon is measured by the
product of its base and altitude, or the product of its three
Umensions.
GEOMETRY.
9 G

Let ABCD—G be any parallelopipedon; tJ.en will itt
volume be expressed by the product & g
of the area of its base and altitude.
If the parallelopipedon is oblique,
we may construct on its base a right
parallelopipedon, by erecting perpen-
diculars at the points A, B, C, and D,
and making them each equal to the
altitude of the given parallelopipedon;
and the right parallelopipedon, thus
constructed, will be equivalent to the given parallelopip-
edon, (Th. 6). Now, if the base, ABCD, is a rectangle,
the new parallelopipedon will be rectangular, and meas-
ured by the product of its base and altitude, (Def. 29).
But if the base is not rectangular, let fall the perpen-
diculars, Be and Ad, on CD and CD produced, and take
the rectangle ABcd for the base of a rectangular paral-
lelopipedon, having for its altitude that of the given
parallelopipedon. * We may now regard the rectangular
face, ABFE, as the common base of the two parallelo-
pipedons, Ag and AG-; and, as they have a common
base, and equal altitude, they are equivalent. Thus we
have reduced the oblique parallelopipedon, first to an
equivalent right parallelopipedon on the same base, and
then the right to an equivalent rectangular parallelopip-
edon on an equivalent base, all having the same alti-
tude. But the rectangular parallelopipedon, Ag, ia
measured by product of its base, ABcd, and its altitude;
hence, the given and equivalent oblique parallelopipedon
's measured by the product of its equivalent base and
equal altitude.
Hence, the volume of any parallelopipedon, etc.
Cor. Since a parallelopipedon is measured by the pro-
duct of its base by its altitude, it follows that parallelo
pipedons of equivalent bases, and equal altitudet, are equina
lent, or equal in volume.
THEOREM VIII.
Parallelopipedons on the game, or equivalent bases, are to
each other as their altitudes; and parallelopipedons having
equal altitudes, are to each other as their bases.
Let P and p represent two parallelopipedons, whose
bases are denoted by B and b, and altitudes by A and a,
respectively.
Now, P = B x A, and p = b x a, (Th. 7).
But magnitudes are proportional to their numerical
measures; that is,
P : p :: B x A : b X a.
If the bases of the parallelopipedons are equivalent,
we have B = b; and if the altitudes are equal, we have
A = a. Introducing these suppositions, in succession,
in the above proportion, we get
P : p :: A : a,
and P : p :: B : b.
Hence the theorem; Parallelopipedons on the same, etc.
THEOREM IX.
Similar parallelopipedons are to each other as the cubes of
their like dimensions.
Let P and p represent any two similar parallelopipe-
dons, the altitude of the first being denoted by h, and
the length and breadth of its base by I and n, respect-
ively; and let /*', I', and n', in order, denote the corres-
ponding dimensions of the second.
1 lien we are to prove that
P : p :: w' : n" :: Is : V :: h" : h".
We have
P = Inh, and p = Vn'h' (Th. 7);
and by dividing the first of these equations \j the
second, member by member, we get
16*
P _ Ink
p~ I'n'h''
which, reduced to a proportion, gives
P : p :: Inh : Vrih'.
But, by reason of the similarity of the parallelopipe*
dons, we have the proportions
I : V :: n : ri
h : V :: n : n';
we have also the identical proportion,
n : n' :: n : n'.
By the multiplication of these proportions, term by
term, we get, (Th. 11, B. II),
Inh : Vn'h' :: »' : w".
That is, P : p :: nl : n".
By treating in the same manner the three proportions,
I : I' :: h : h!
n : n' :: h : h'
h : h' :: h : h',
we should obtain the proportion
P : p :: hs : hn;
and, by a like process, the three proportions,
h : V :: I : V
n : n' :: I : V
I : V :: I : I',
will give us the proportion
P : p :: ?: ln.
Hence the theorem; similarparallelopipedons are to each
ither, etc.
THEOREM X.
The two triangular prisms into which any paralkhpipedon
is iivided, by a plane passing through its opposite diagonal
edges, are equivalent.
Let ABCD—F be a parallelopipedon, and through
the diagonal edges, BF and DH, pass the plane BH. divi-
ding the parallelopipedon into the two triangular prisms.
187

ABB-E and BCB—G; then we are to prove that these
prisms an equivalent. Let us divide
the diagonal, BD, in which the se-
cant plane intersects the base of the
parallelopipedon, into three equal
parts, a and c being the points of
division. In the base, ABCD,con-
struct the complementary paral-
lelograms, aCand aA, and in the
parallelogram, badD, construct the
complementary parallelograms,
cd and cb, and conceive these, to-
gether with the parallelograms,
Ba, ac, cD, to be the bases of
smaller parallelopipedons, having
their lateral faces parallel to the
lateral faces of, and their altitude equal to the altitude oS,
the given parallelopipedon, A G.
Now it is evident that the triangular prism, BCD—G,
is composed of the parallelopipedons on the bases, aC
and cd, and the triangular prisms, on the side of the
secant plane with this prism, into which this plane divides
the parallelopipedons on the bases, Ba, ac, and cD. The
triangular prism, ABD—E, is also composed of the par-
allelopipedons on the bases, Aa and be, together with the
triangular prisms on the side of the secant plane with
this prism, into which this plane divides the parallelopip-
edons on the bases, Ba, ac, and cD.
But the parallelograms, aC and aA, being complement
aiy, are equivalent, (Th. 31, B. I); and for the same
reason the parallelograms, cd and cb, are equivalent; and
Bince parallelopipedons on equivalent bases and of equal
altitudes, are equivalent, (Cor., Th. 7), we have the sum
of parallelopipedons on bases aC and cd, equivalent to
the sum of parallelopipedons on the bases, a A and cb.
Hence, the triangular prisms, ABD—E and BCD—G-,
differ in volume only by the difference which may exifii
between the sums of the triangular prisms on the two
Bides of the secant plane into which this plane divides
the parallelopipedous on the bases, Ba, ac, and cd.
Now, if the number of equal parts into which the diag-
onal is divided, be indefinitely multiplied, it still holds
true that the triangular prisms, ABD—E and BCD—G,
iliffer in volume only by the difference between the sum*
of the triangular prisms on the two sides of the secant
plane into which this plane divides the parallelopipedona
constructed on the bases whose diagonals are the equal
portions of the diagonal, BD. But in this case the sum
of these parallelopipedons themselves becomes an indefi-
nitely small part of the whole parallelopipedon, AG, and
the difference between the parts of an indefinitely small
quantity must itself be indefinitely small, or less than
any assignable quantity. Therefore, the triangular
prisms, ABD—E and BCD—G, differ in volume by less
than any assignable volume, and are consequently equiv-
alent.
Hence the theorem; the two triangular prisms into which,
etc.
Cor. 1. Any triangular prism, as ABD—E, is one half
the parallelopipedon having the same triedral angle, A,
and the same edges, AB, AD, and AE.
Cor. 2. Since the volume of a parallelopipedon is meas-
ured by the product of its base and altitude, and the tri-
angular prisms into which it is divided by the diagonal
plane, have bases equivalent to one half the base of the
parallelopipedon, and the same altitude, it follows that,
the volume of a triangular prism is measured by the product
of its base and altitude.
The above demonstration is less direct, but is thought
to be more simple, than that generally found in authors.
and which is here given as a
189

Second Demonstration
Let A BCD—.Fbe a parallelo-
pipedon, divided by the diagonal
plane, BB, passing through the
edges, BF and DB; then we are
to prove that the triangular
pnsins, ABD—E and BCD—a,
thus formed, are equivalent.
Through the points B and F,
pass planes perpendicular to the
edge, BF, and produce the late-
ral faces of the parallelopipedon
to intersect the plane through B;
then the sectionb Boda and Fghe
are equal parallelograms. For, since the cutting plane*
are both perpendicular to BF, they are parallel, (Th. 10,
B. VI); and because the opposite faces of a parallelo-
pipedon are in parallel planes, (Th. 2), and the intersec-
tions of two parallel planes by a third plane are parallel,
(Th. 9, B. VI), the sections, Bcda and Fghe, are equal
parallelograms, and may be taken as the bases of the
right parallelopipedon, Bcda—h. But the diagonal plane
divides the right parallelopipedon into the two equal tri-
angular prisms, aBd—e and Bed—g, (Th. 1). We will
now compare the right prism with the oblique triangular
prism on the same side of the diagonal plane.
The volume ABD — e is common to the two prisms,
ABD—E md aBd—e; and tbe volume eFh—E, which,
fcdded to this common part, forms the oblique triangular
prism, is equal to the volume aBd—A, which, added to
the common part, forms the right triangular prism. For,
since ABFE and aBFe are parallelograms, AE = ae, and
taking away the common part Ae, we have aA=eE; and
since BFBD and BFhd are parallelograms, we have DB
= dh; and from these equals taking away the common
part Dh, we have dD = hH. Now, if the volume eFh—B
be applied to the volume aBd—D, the base eFh felling
on the equal base aBd, the edges eE and hS will fall
upon aA and dD respectively, because they are perpen-
dicular to the base aBd, (Cor. 2, Th. 3, B. VI), and the
point E will fall upon the point A, and the point H upon
the point 2>; hence the volume eFh—H exactly coincides
with the volume aBd—D, and the oblique triangular
prisir. ABD—E is equivalent to the right triangulai
pridm aBd—e.
In the same manner, it may be proved that the obliqui
triangular prism, BCDG-, is equivalent to the right tri-
angular prism, Bcdg. The oblique triangular prism on
eitner side of the diagonal plane is, therefore, equivalent
to the corresponding right triangular prism; and, as tho
two right triangular prisms are equal, the oblique trial
guiar prisms are equivalent.
Hence the theorem; the two triangular prisms, etc.
THEOREM XI.
The volume of any prism whatever is measured by the prod
uet of the area of its base and altitude.
For, by passing planes through the homologous diag-
onals of the upper and lower bases of the prism, it will
be divided into a number of triangular prisms, each of
which is measured by the product of the area of its base
and altitude. Now, as these triangular prisms all have,
for their common altitude, the altitude of the given
prism, when we add the measures of the triangular
prisms, to get that of the whole prism, we shall have,
for this measure, the common altitude multiplied by the
sum of the areas of the bases of the triangular prisms:
that is, the product of the area of the polygonal base
and the altitude of the prism.
Henee the theorem; the volume of any prism, etc.
Cor. If A denote the area of the base, and H tha alt*
tilde of a prism, its volume will be expressed by A x E.
Calling this volume V, we have
F= A x E.
. Denoting by A', E', and V, in order, the area of the
base, altitude, and volume of another prism, we have
V = A' x E>.
Dividing the first of these equations by the second,
D ember by member, we have
V ~ A' x E''
which gives the proportion,
V: V :: AxE : A' xE'.
If the bases are equivalent, this proportion becomes
V: V :: E: E';
aui if the altitudes are equal, it reduces to
V: V :: A : A'.
Hence, prisms of equivalent bates are to each other at
their altitudes; and prisms of equal altitudes are to each other
as their bases.
THEOREM XII.
A plane passed through a pyramid parallel to its base,
divides its edges and altitude proportionally, and makes a
lection, which is a polygon similar to the base.
Let ABCDE—Vhe any pyramid, whose base is in the
plane, MN, and vertex in the parallel plane, mn; and let
a plane be passed through the pyramid, parallel to its
base, cutting its edges at the points, a b, c, d, e, and the
altitude, EF, at the point I. By joining the points, a, b,
c, etc., we have the polygon formed by the intersection
of the plane and the sides of the pyramid. Now, we are
to prove that the edges, VA, VB, etc., and the altitude,
FE, are divided proportionally at the points, a, b, etc.,
and I; and that the polygon, a, b, e, d, e, is similar to the
base of the pyramid.
GEOMETRY.

bince the cutting plane is parallel to the base of th«
uyramid, ab is parallel to AB, (Th. 9, B. VI); for the
same reason, be is parallel to BC, cd to CD, etc. Now,
in the triangle VAB, because ab is parallel to the base
AB, we have, (Th. 17, B. II), the proportion,
VA : Va :: VB : Vb.
In like manner, it may be shown that
VB : Vb :: VC: Vc,
and so on for the other lateral edges of the pyramid. F
being the point in which the perpendicular from E pierces
tbe plane mn, and I the point in which the parallel secant
plane cuts the perpendicular, if we join the points F and
V, and also the points I and e by straight lines, we have
in the triangle EFV, the line le parallel to the base FV;
hence the proportion
VE : Ve :: FE : Fl.
Therefore, the plane passed through the pyramid par-
allel to its base, divides the altitude into parts which have
to each other the same ratio as the parts into which it
divides the edges.
Again, since ab is parallel to AB, and be to BO, the
angle abc is equal to the angle ABC, (Th. 17, B. VI.); in
the same manner we may show that each angle in the
polygon, abode, is equal to the corresponding angle in the
polygon, ABCDE; therefore these polygons are mutually
equiangular. But, because the triangles VBA and Vba
are similar, their homologous sides give the proportion
Vb : VB :: ab : AB;
and because the triangles Vbe and VBO are similar, we
also have the proportion
Vb : VB :: be : BC.
Since the first couplets in these two proportions are the
same, the second couplets are proportional, and give
ab : AB :: be : BC.
By a like process, we can prove that
be : BC :: cd : OB,
and that cd : CD :: de : DE,
and so on, for the other homologous sides of the two
polygons.
Hence, the two polygons are not only mutually equi-
angular, but the sides about the equal angles taken in the
same order are proportional, and the polygons are there-
fore similar, (Def. 16, B. II).
Hence the theorem; a plane passed through a pyramid,
etc.
Cor. 1. Since the areas of similar polygons are to each
other as the squares of their homologous sides, (Th. 22,
B II), we have
area abode : area ABCDE : ab* : AB'. .
. But, ab : AB :: Va : VA :: Fl : FE;
hence, ab' : AB* :: Jf : FE*:
therefore, area abode : area ABCDE : Fl* : FE*
17 N
That is, the area of a section parallel to the base of a
pyramid, is to the area of the base, as the square of the
perpendicular distance from the vertex of the pyramid to
the section, is to the square of the altitude of the pyramid.
Cor. 2. Let V—ABCDE and X—RST be two pyra-
mids, having their bases in the plane MN, and their ver-
tices in the parallel plane mn; and suppose a plane to be
passed through the two pyramids parallel to the common
plane of their bases, making in the one the section abode,
and in the other the section rst.
Now, area ABCDE: area abode ::AB*: aV, (Th.22,B.II),
and" RST:" rst:: RS*: rV.
But, AB : ab :: VB : Vb,
and RS : rs :: XR : Xr.
Because the plane which makes the sections is parallel
to the planes MN and mn, we have, (Th. 11, B. VI),
VB : Vb :: XR : Xr;
therefore, (Cor. 2, Th.6,B.II), AB:ab::BS: rs.
By squaring, AB' : ab* : RS* : rs*;
hence, area ABCDE: area abode :: area BST: area ra.
That is, if two pyramids having equal altitudes, and their
bases in the same plane, be cut by a plane parallel to the com-
mon plane of their bases, the areas of the sections will be
proportional to the areas of the bases; and if the bases are
equivalent, the sections will also be equivalent.
THEOREM XIII.
If two triangular pyramids have equivalent bases ana
equal altitudes, they are equal in volume.
Let V— ABC and v—abc be two triangular pyraujda,.
having the equivalent bases, ABC and abc, and let the
altitude of each be equal to CX; then will thes* two
pyramids be equivalent.
IW


Place the bases of the pyramids on the same plane,
with their vertices in the same direction, and divide the
altitude into any number of equal parts. Through the
points of division pass planes parallel to the plane of the
bases; the corresponding sections made in the pyramids
by these planes are equivalent, (Th. 12, Cor. 2); that is,
the triangle DEF is equivalent to the triangle def, the
triangle G'BTI to the triangle gld, etc.
Now, let triangular prisms be constructed on the tri-
angles ABC, DEF, etc., of the pyramid V— ABC, these
prisms having their lateral edges parallel to the edge,
VC, of the pyramid, and the equal parts of the altitude,
OX, for their altitudes. Portions of these prisms will be
exterior to the pyramid V—ABC, and the sum of theix
volumes will exceed the volume of the pyramid.
On the bases def gld, etc., in the other pyramid, con-
struct interior prisms, as represented in the figure,
their lateral edges being parallel to vc, and their alti-
tudes also the equal parts of the altitude, CX. Portions
of the pyramid, v—abc, will be exterior to these prisms
and the volume of the pyramid will exceed the sum of
the volumes of the prisma.
Since the sum of the exterior prisms, constructed in
connection with the pyramid V—ABC, is greater than
the pyramid, and the sum of the interior prisms, con-
structed in connection with the pyramid v—abc, is less
than this pyramid, it follows that the difference of these
lunie is greater than the difference of the pyramids them-
selves. But the second exterior prism, or that on the
base DEF, is equivalent to the first interior prism, or
that on the base def, and the third exterior prism is
equivalent to the second interior prism, (Th. 10, Cor. 2),
and so on. That is, beginning with the second prism from
the base of the pyramid, V—ABC, and taking these
prisms in order towards the vertex of the pyramid, and
comparing them with the prisms in the pyramid, v—abc,
beginning with the lowest, and taking them in order
toward the vertex of this pyramid, we find that to each
exterior prism of the pyramid, V—ABC, exclusive of
the first or lowest, there is a corresponding equivalent
interior prism in the pyramid, v—abc.
Ilence the prism, ABCDEF, is the difference between
the sum of the prisms constructed in connection with
the pyramid, V—ABC, and the sum of the interior
prisms constructed in the pyramid, v—abc. But the first
sum being a volume greater than the pyramid, V—ABC,
and the second sum a volume less than the pyramid,
v—afc, it follows that the volumes of the pyramids differ
by less than the prism, ABCDEF.
Now, however great the number of equal parts into
wnich the altitude, CX, be divided, and the correspond-
ing number of prisms constructed in connection with
each pyramid, it would still be true that the difference
between the volumes of the pyramids would be less than
the volume of the lowest prism of the pyramid V— ABC;
out when we make the number of equal parts into which
the altitude 13 divided indefinitely great, the vok me ot
this prism becomes indefinitely small: that is, the differ-
ence between the volumes of the pyramids is less thau
an indefinitely small volume; or, in other words, thero
is no assignable difference between the two pyramids,
and they are, therefore, equivalent.
Ilence the theorem; if two triangular pyramids, etc.
THEOREM XIV.
Any triangular pyramid is or^ third of the triangw' tr
prism having the same base and equal altitude.
Let F—ABC be a triangular pyramid, and througa F
pass a plane parallel to the plane of the base, ABO. la
this plane, through F, construct the
triangle, FDE, having its sides, FD, E
DE, and EF, parallel and equal to BC, /v<n[ j/i
CA, and AB, respectively. The tri- / \yf\ J
angle, FDE, may be taken as the / V/A /
upper base of a triangular prism of \ / / \y
which the lower base is ABC. v\. 1/
Now, this triangular prism is com- b
posed of the given triangular pyramid,
F—ABC, and of the quadrangular p/ramid, F—ACDE.
This last pyramid may be divided by a plane through the
three points, C, E, and F, into thy two triangular pyra-
mids, F—DEC and F—ACE. But the pyramid, F—
DEC, may be regarded as h?,ring the triangle, EFB,
equal to the triangle, ABC, for its base, and the point, O,
for its vertex. The two pyramids, F—ABC and C—DEF,
have equal bases and equal altitudes; they are therefore
equivalent, (Th. 13). Again, the two pyramids, F—DEQ
and F—A CE, have a common vertex, and equivalent bases
in tie same plane, and they are also equivalent. Theie-
fore, the triangular prism, ABCDEF, is composed if
17*
GEOMETRY.
three 'equivalent triangular pyramids, one of which is th«
given 'xiangular pyramid, F—ABC.
Heiico the theorem; any triangular pyramid is one third
of the triangular prism, etc.
Cor. The volume of the triangular prism heing meas-
ured by the product of its base and altitude, the volume of
a triangular pyramid is measured by one third of the product
of its base and altitude.
THEOREM XV.
The volume of any pyramid whatever is measured by one
third of the product of its base and altitude.
Let V—ABCDE be any pyramid; then will its volume
be measured by one third of the product of its base and
altitude.
In the base of the pyramid, draw the
diagonals, AD and AC, and through
its vertex and these diagonals, pass
planes, thus dividing the pyramid into
a number of triangular pyramids
having the common vertex F, and the
altitude of the given pyramid for their
common altitude.
Now, each of these triangular pyra-
mids is measured by one third of
the product of its base and altitude,
(Cor., Th. 14), and their sum, which
constitutes the polygonal pyramid, is
therefore measured by one third of
the product of the sum of the trian-
gular bases and the common altitude; but the sum of too
'triangular bases constitutes the polygonal base, ABCDE
Hence the theorem; the volume of any pyramid what-
ever, etc.
Cor. 1. Denote, by B, H, and V, respectively, the base,
altitude, and volume of one pyramid, and by B', B7, and

V, the base, altitude, and volume of another; then wo
shall have
V=\Bx ff,
and V = W x H'.
Dividing the first of these equations by the second,
member bj member, we have
V _B x H
V B'x H''
which, in the form of a proportion, gives
V: V :: B X H: B' X E>.
From this proportion we deduce the following conse-
quences:
1st. Pyramids are to each other as the products of their
bases and altitudes.
2d. Pyramids having equivalent bases are to each other a*
their altitudes.
3d. Pyramids having equal altitudes are to each other as
their bases.
Cor. 2. Since a prism is measured by the product of
its base and altitude, and a pyramid by one third of the
product of its base and altitude, we conclude that any
pyramid is one third of a prism having an equivalent base and
equal altitude
THEOREM XVI.
The volume of the frustum of a pyramid is equivalent to
the sum of the volumes of three pyramids, each of which hat
an altitude equal to that of the frustum, and whose bases arty
respectively, the lower base of the frustum, the upper base of
the frustum, and a mean proportional between these bases.
Let V—ABCDE and X—RST be two pyramids, the
one polygonal and the other triangular, having equiva-
lent bases and equal altitudes; and let their bases be
placed on the plane MN, their vertices falling on the
parallel plane mn. Pass through the pyramids a plane

parallel to the common plane of their bases, cutting oat
the sections abode and rst; these sections are equivalent,
(Th. 12, Cor. 2), and the pyramids, V—abode and X—rat,
are equivalent, (Th. 13). Now, since the pyramids,
V—ABCDE and X—RST, are equivalent, if from the
first we take the pyramid, V—abode, and from the second,
'the pyramid, X—rst, the remainders, or the frusta.
ABCDE—a and RST—r, will be equivalent.
If, then, we prove the theorem in the case of the frus-
tum of a triangular pyramid, it will be proved for the
frustum of any pj'ramid whatever.
Let ABO—D be the frustum of a
triangular pyramid. Through the
points D, B, and 0, pass a plane,
and through the points D, C, and
E, pass another, thus dividing the
frustum into three triangular pyra-
mids, viz., D—ABC, O—DEF, and
D—BEC.
Wow, the first of these has, for its

base, the lower base of the frustum, and for its altitude
the altitude of the frustum, since its vertex is in the
upper base; the second has, for its base, the upper base
of the frustum, and for its altitude the altitude of the
frustum, since its vertex is in the lower base. Hence,
these are two of the three pyramids required by the
enunciation of the theorem; and we have now only to
prove that the third is equivalent to one having, for its
basa, a mean proportional between the bases of the frus-
tum, and an altitude equal to that of the frustum.
In the face ABED, draw HD parallel to BE, and
uraw HE and HC. The two pyramids, D—BEC and
H—BEC, are equivalent, since they have a common
base and equal altitudes, their vertices being in the line
DH, which is parallel to the plane of their common
base, (Th. 7, B. VI). We may, therefore, substitute the
pyramid, H—BEC, for the pyramid, D—BEC. But the
triangle, BCH, may be taken as the base, and E as the
vertex of this new pyramid; hence, it has the required
altitude, and we must now prove that it has the required
base.
The triangles, ABC and HBC, have a common vertex,
and their bases in the same line; hence, (Th. 16, B. II),
A ABC: A HBC :: AB : HB :: AB : DE. (1)
In the triangles, DEF and HBC, [_ E = [_ B, ami
DE=HB; hence, if DEE be applied to HBC, [_ E fall-
ing on |_ B, and the side DE on HB, the point D wi 11
lull en H, and the triangles, in this position, will have a
common vertex, H, and their bases in the same line;
hence,
A HBC: A DEF :: BO: EF. (2)
But, because the triangles, ABC and DEF, are similar,
«ve nave
AB , DE :: BC : EF. (3)
From proportions (1), (2), and (3), we have> (Th, 6*,
B II),

A ABC: A BBC :: A BBC: A DEF'.
that is, the base, BBC, ia a mean proportional between
the lower and upper bases of the frustum.
Hence the theorem; the volume of the frustum of a pyra-
mid, etc.
THEOREM XVII.
202 GEOMETRY.
Hit perimeter of its base, multiplied by one half its slant height.
Let S—ABCDEF be a right pyramid,
of which SB is the slant height; then will
its convex surface have, for its measure,
ISB(AB + BC+ CD + DE+ EF+ FA).
Since the base is a regular polygon, and
the perpendicular, drawn to its plane from
S, passes through its center, the edges,
SA, SB, SC, etc., are equal, (Th. 4, B. VI), f~t%
and the triangles SAB, SBC, etc., are equal, and isosceles,
each having an altitude equal to SB.
Now, AB x %SE measures the area of the triangle,
SAB; and BC x %SH measures the area of the triangle,
SBC; and so on, for the other triangular faces of the
pyramid. By the addition of these different measures,
we get
\SB{AB + BC+CD + DE + EF + FA),
as the measure of the total convex surface of the pyramid.
Hence the theorem; the convex surface of any right
pyramid, etc.
THEOREM XVIII.
The convex surface of the frustum of any right pyramid u
measured by the sum of the perimeters of the two bases, mul
Hplied by one half the slant height of the frustum.
Let ABCDEF—d be the frustum of a right pyramid;
!hen will its convex surface be measured by
\Hh{AB-t BC+aD*irDE-\ EF+FA+ab+bc+cd+de+ef+fa).
20fi

For, the upper base, abcdef, of the
frustum is a section of a pyramid
by a plane parallel to the lower
base, (Def. 14), and is, therefore,
similar to the lower base, (Th. 12).
But the lower base is a regular
polygou, (Def. 12); hence, the up-
per base is also a regular polygon,
<f the same name; and as ab and
AB are intersections of a face of
the pyramid by two parallel planes, A H B
they are parallel. For the same reason, be is parallel to
BC, cd to CD, etc., and the lateral faces of the frustum
are all equal trapezoids, each having an altitude equal
to Hli, the slant height of the frustum.
The trapezoid ABba has, for its measure, \B\h (AB+ab),
(Th. 34, Book I); the trapezoid BCcb has, for its meas-
ure, \Bli(BC + be), and so on, for the other lateral faces
of the frustum.
Adding all these measures, we find, for their sum.
which is the whole convex surface of the frustum,
IHh {AB+ B C+ CD+DE+EF+ FA+ab+bc+cd+de+ef+fa).
Elence the theorem; the convex surface of the frustum,
THEOREM XIX.
The volumes of similar triangular prisms are to each other
as the cubes constructed on their homologous edges.
Let ABC—F ana
iba—fbe two similar
triangular prisms;
then will their vol-
umes be to each
other as the cubes,
whose edges are the
homologous edges

AB and ab, or as the cubes, whose edges are the horaol
ogous edges BE and be, etc. Since the prisms are similar,
the solid angles, whose vertices are B and b, are equal;
and the smaller prism, when so applied to the larger that
these solid angles coincide, will take, within the larger,
the position represented by the dotted lines. In this
position of the prisms, draw EH perpendicular to the
plane of the base ABC, and join the foot of the peipen-
dicular to the point B, and in the triangle BEH draw,
through e, the line eh, parallel to EH; then will EM
represent the altitude of the larger prism, and eh that of
the smaller.
Now, as the bases ABC and aBc, are homologous faces,
they are similar, and we have, (Th. 20, Book II),
A ABC: A aBc :: AB* :~aB' (1)
But the A's BE H and Beh are equiangular, and there
fore similar, and their homologous sides give the propor-
tion
BE : Be :: EH: eh (2)
and from the homologous sides of the similar faces,
ABED and aBed, we also have
BE : Be :: AB : aB (3)
x'roportions (2) and (3), having an antecedent and con
^sequent the same in both, we have, (Th. 6, B. IT),
EH : eh :: AB : aB (4)
By the multiplication of proportions (1) and (4), tenv
hy term, we get
A ABC X EH: A aBc X eu :: AB*: aB"
But A ABC X EH measures the volume of the larger
prism, and A aBc X eh measures the volume of the
imaller.
Hence the theorem; the volumes of similar triangular
vrisms. etc.
Cor. 1. Tlie volumes of two similar prisms having any
bases whatever, are to each other as the cubes constructed on
their homologous edges.
For, if planes be passed through any one of the lateral
edges, and the several diagonal edges, of one of these
prisms, this prism will be divided iuto a number of smaller
triangular prisms. Taking the homologous edge of the
other prism, and passing planes through it and the seve-
ral diagonal edges, this prism will also be divided into
the same number of smaller triangular prisms, similar to
those of the first, each to each, and similarly placed.
Now, the similar smaller prisms, being triangular, are
to each other as the cubes of their homologous edges;
and being like parts of the larger prisms, it follows that
the larger prisms are to each other as the cubes of the
homologous edges of any two similar smaller prisms. But
the homologous edges of the similar smaller prisms are
to each other as the homologous edges of the given
prisms; hence we conclude that the given prisms are to
each other as the cubes of their homologous edges.
Cor. 2. The volumes of two similar pyramids having any
bases whatever, are to each other as the cubes constructed on
their homologous edges.
For, since the pyramids are similar, their bases are
similar polygons; and upon them, as bases, two similar
prisms may be constructed, having for their altitudes, the
altitudes of their respective pyramids, and their lateral
edges parallel to any two homologous lateral edges of the
yramids.
N ow, these similar prisms are to each other as the subes
of their homologous edges, which may be taken as the
homologous sides of their bases, or as their lateral edges,
which were taken equal and parallel to any two arbitrarily
assumed homologous lateral edges of the two pyramids;
hence the pyramids which are thirds of their respective
prisms, are to each other as the cubes constructed on any
two homologous edges.
IS
GEOMETRY.
Cor. 3. The volumes of any two similarpolyedront art f«
tach other as the cubes constructed on their homologous edges.
For, by passing planes through the vertices of the
homologous solid angles of such polyedrons, they may
both be divided into the same number of triangular
pyramids, those of the one similar to those of the other,
each to each, and similarly placed.
Now, any two of these similar triangular pyramids are
to each other as the cubes of their homologous edges;
and being like parts of their respective polyedrons, it
follows that the polyedrons are to each other as the cubes
of the homologous edges of any two of the similar tri-
angular pyramids into which they may be divided. But
the homologous edges of the similar triangular pyramids
are to each other as the homologous edges of the poly-
edrons; hence the polyedrons are to each other as the
cubes of their homologous edges.
THEOREM XX.
The convex surface of the frustum of a cone is measured
by the product of the slant height and one half the sum of
the circumferences of the bases of the frustum.
Let ABCD—abed be the frustum of A
s cone; then will its convex surface be
(circ. OC + circ. oc)
2'
neasured by via x
n which the expression, circ. OC, de
notes the circumference of the circle
of which OC is the radius. Inscribe in
the lower base of the frustum, a regu-
lar polygon haviDg any number of
sides, and in the upper base a similar
polygon, having its sides parallel to
those of the polygon in the lower base.
af o \e .
b
1 1 m
Je
D
\J °
J/°
These polygons
may be takv.n as the bases of the rrustuin of a right
pyramid inscribed in the frustum of the cone.
Now, however great the number of sides of the in-
scribed polygons, the convex surface of the frustum of
the pyramid is measured by its slant height multiplied by
one half the sum of the perimeters of its two bases,
(Th. 18); but when we reach the limit, by making the
number of sides of the polygon indefinitely great, the
slant height, perimeters of the bases, and convex surface
of the frustum of the pyramid become, severally, the
slant height, circumferences of the bases, and convex sur-
face of the frustum of the cone.
Hence the theorem; the convex surface of the frustum,
etc.
Oor. 1. If we make oc = OC, and, consequently, circ.
*c = circ. OC, the frustum of the cone becomes a cylin-
der, and the half sum of the circumferences of the bases
jecomes the circumference of either base of the cylinder,
and the slant height of the frustum, the altitude of the
cylinder. Hence, the convex surface of a cylinder is meas-
ured by the circumference of the base multiplied by the alti-
tude of the cylinder.
Cor. 2. If we make oc = 0, the frustum of the cone
becomes a une. Hence, the convex surface of a cone is
measured by the circumference of the base multiplied by one
half the slant height of the cone.
Cor. 3. If through E, the middle point of Cc, the line
Ff be drawn parallel to Oo, and Em perpendicular to
Oo, the line oc being produced, to meet If at/, we have,
because the A's EFC and Efc are equal,
Em - °° + °C.
A
if we multiply both members of this equation by 2*.
wo have
2*.Em ~ **JOC+2*.oo.
GEOMETRY.
that is, circ. Em is equal to one half the sum of the cir
, cumferences of the two bases of the frustum. Hence, tht
convex surface of the frustum of a cone is measured by the
circumference of the section made by a plane half way between
the two bases, and parallel to them, multiplied by the slant
height of the frustum.
Cor. 4. If the trapezoid, OCco, be revolved about Oo
as an axis, the inclined side, Cc, will generate-the con-
vex surface of the frustum of a cone, of which the slant
height is Cc, and the circumferences of the bases are circ.
OC and circ. oc. Hence, if a trapezoid, one of whose sides
is perpendicular- to the two parallel sides, be revolved about
the perpendicular side as an axis, it will generate the frustum
of a cone, the inclined side opposite the axis generating the
convex surface, and the parallel sides the bases of the frustum.
THEOREM XXI.
The volume of a cone is measured by the area of its bos*
multiplied by one third of its altitude.
Let V—ABC, etc., be a cone; then
will its volume be measured by area
ABC, etc., multiplied by \VO.
Inscribe, in the base of the cone, any
regular polygon, as ABCDEF, which
may be taken as the base of a right pyra-
mid, of which V is the vertex. The
volume of this inscribed pyramid will Afc
iav<\ for its measure, (Th. 15),
polygon ABCDEF x \ VO.
Now, however great the number of sides of the pol ;-
gon inscribed in the base of the cone, it will still hoid
true that the pyramid of which it is the base, and who*e
vertex is V, will be measured by the area if the poly-
gon, multiplied by one third of VO; but when w«
reach the limit, by making the number of sides iudefi

nitely great, the polygon becomes the i*vcle in which it
is inscribed, and the pyramid become +he cone.
Hence the theorem; the volume of a cone, etc.
Cor. 1. Jf R denote the radius of the base of a 2one,
and H its altitude, or axis, its volume will be expressed
\H x *R';
hen^i, if V and V designate the volumez of two cones,
of which R and R' are the radii of the bases, and H an J
II' the altitudes, we have
V: V:: £ZTx *i2* : ^H' x *R" :: Rx«R7: H> x *R".
From this proportion we conclude,
First. That coneg having equal altitudes are to each other
as their bases.
Second. That cones having equal bases are to each other
as their altitudes.
Cor. 2. Retaining the notation above, we have
Yl El RH- m
V H * R*'
auvt, if the two cones are similar,
H: H' :: R : R';
H' R' , H" R"
0T' S = R, henCe' "&--&,
By substituting for the factors, in the second member
of eq. (1), their values successively, and i esolving into a
proportion, we get
V: V :: Rl : R";
and V: V :: H* : H'1.
Hence, similar cones are to each other as the cubes of tkt
radii of their bases, and also as the Tubes of their altitudes.
Cor. 3. A cone is equivalent to a pyramid having an equiv-
alent base and an equal altitude,
18* o
'210
GEOMETRY

THEOREM XXII.
The volume of the frustum of a cone is equivalent to (hi
turn of the volumes of three cones, having for their common
altitude the altitude of the frustum, and for their several
bases, the bases of the frustum and a mean proportional be-
tween them.
Let ABCD—abed be the frustum of a
cone; then will its volume be equiva-
lent to the sum of the volumes, having
Oo fir their common altitude, and for
their bases, the circles of which, OC, oc,
and a mean proportional between OC
and oc, are the respective radii.
Inscribe in the lower base of the frus-
tum any regular polygon, and in the
upper base a similar polygon, having
its sides parallel to those of the first. These polygons
may be taken as the bases of the frustum of a right pyra-
mid inscribed in the frustum of the cone.
The volume of the frustum of the pyramid is equiva-
lent to the sum of the volumes of three pyramids, having
for their common altitude the altitude of the frustum,
and for their several bases the bases of the frustum, and
a mean proportional between them, (Th. 16).
Now, however great the number of sides of the poly-
gons inscribed in the bases of the frustum of the cone,
this measure for the volume of the frustum of the pyra-
mid, of which they are the bases, still holds true; but
when we reach the limit, by making the number of the
sides of the polygon indefinitely great, the polygons be-
come the circles, the frustum of the pyramid becomes
the frustum of the cone, and the three partial pyramids,
whose sum is equivalent to the frustum of the pyramid,
become three partial cones, whose sum is equivalent to
the frustum of the cone.
211
Hence the theorem; the volume of the frustum of a cone, etc.
Cor. 1. Let R denote the radius of the lower base, R'
that of the upper base, and H the altitude of the frustum
of a cone; then will its volume be measured, (Th. 21), by
%H x *i2J + iS x *Rn + iHx *R x R',
since *R x R' expresses the area of a circle which is a
mean proportional between the two circles, whose radii
are R and R'.
Now, if the bases of the frustum become equal, or
R ~ R', the frustum becomes a cylinder, and each of the
iast two terms in the above expression for the volume of
the frustum of a cone will be equal to the, first; hence,
the volume of a cylinder, of which H is the altitude, and
R the radius of the base, is measured by H x *R'.
Therefore, the volume of a cylinder is measured by the
area of its base multiplied by its altitude.
Cor. 2. By a process in all respects similar to that pur-
sued in the case of cones, it may be shown that similar
cylinders are to each other as the cubes of the radii of their
bases, and also as the cubes of their altitudes.
Cor. 3. A cylinder is equivalent to a prism having an
equivalent base and an equal altitude.
THEOREM XXIli.
If a plane be passed through a sphere, the section will be a
circle.
Let 0 be the center of a sphere
through which a plane is passed,
making the section AmBn; then
will this section be a circle.
From O let fall the perpendic-
ular Oo upon the secant plane,
and draw the radii OA, OB, and
0?n, to different points in the
intersection of the plane with
the surface of the sphere. Now,

the oblique lines OA, OB, Om, are all equal, being ladL
of the sphere; they therefore meet the plane at equal dis
tances from the foot of the perpendicular Oo, (Cor., Th. 4,
B.VI); hence oA, oB, om, etc., are equal: that is, all the
points in the intersection of the plane with the surface of
the sphere are equally distant from the point O. This
intersection is therefore the circumference of a circle of
which o is the center.
Hence the theorem; if a plane be passed through a
sphere, etc.
Cor. 1. Since AB, the diameter of the section, is a chord
of the sphere, it is less than the diameter of the sphere;
except when the plane of the section passes through the
center of the sphere, and then its diameter becomes the
diameter of the sphere. Hence,
1. All great circles of a sphere are equal.
2. Of two small circles of a sphere, that is the greatet
whose plane is the less distant from the center of the sphere.
3. All the small circles, of a sphere whose planes are at the
same distance from the center, are equal.
Cor. 2. Since the planes of all great circles of a sphere
pass through its center, the intersection of two great
circles will be both a diameter of the sphere and a com-
mon diameter of the two circles. Hence, two great circlet
of a sphere bisect each other.
Cor. 3. A great circle divides the volume of a sphere, and
also its surface, equally.
For, the two parts into which a sphere is divided bj|
any of its great circles, on being applied the one to the
other, will exactly coincide, otherwise all the points in
their convex surfaces would not be equally distant from
the center.
Cor. 4. The radius of the sphere which is perpendicular
to the plane of a small circle, passes through the cente* of th*
tircU.
Cor. 5. A plane passing through the extremity of a radiut
of a sphere, and perpendicular to it, is tangent to the sphere.
For, if the plane intersect the sphere, the section is a
circle, and all the lines drawn from the center of the
sphere to points in the circumference are radii of the
sphere, and are therefore equal to the radius which is per-
pendicular to the plane, which is impossible, (Cor. 1, Th.
8, B. VI). Hence the plane does not intersect the sphere,
and has no point in its surface except the extremity of
the perpendicular radius. The plane is therefore tangent
to the sphere by Def 22.
THEOREM XXIV.
If the line drawn through the center and vertices of two
opposite angles of a regular polygon of an even number of
sides, be taken as an axis of revolution, the perimeter of either
semi-polygon thus formed will generate a surface whose measure
is the axis multiplied by the circumference of the inscribed circle.
Let ABCDFF be a semi-polygon cut
off from a regular polygon of an even
number of sides by drawing the line AF
through the center O, and the vertices A
and F, of two opposite angles of the poly-
gon; then will the surface generated by
the perimeter of this semi-polygon re-
volving about AF as an axis, be meas-
ured by AF x circumference of the in-
scribed circle.
From m, the middle point, and the extremities B and
0 of the side i?C,draw mn, BK, and CL, perpendicular to
AF; join also m and O, and draw BH perpendicular to
CL. The surface of the frustum of the cone generated
by the trapezoid BKLC, has for its measure circ. mn X
BC, (Cor. 3, Th. 20). Since mO is perpendicular to BC,
and mn to BH, the two A's, BCB. and mnO, are similar,
and their homologous sides give the proportion

mn : mO :: BH (= KL) : BC
and as circumferences are to each other as their radii, we
have
ciro. mn : circ. mO :: KL : BC
Hence, circ. mn x BO = circ. mO x KL.
But mO is the radius of the circle inscribed in tna
polygon. Hence, the surface generated by BC during the
revolution of the semi-polygon, is measured by the cir-
cumference of the inscribed circle multiplied by KL, the
part of the axis included between the two perpendicu-
lars let fall upon it from the extremities B and C. The
surface generated by any other side of the semi-polygon
will be measured, in like manner, by the circumference of
the inscribed circle multiplied by the corresponding part
of the axis.
By adding the measures of the surfaces generated by
the several sides of the semi-polygon, we get
Circ. mO x (AK + KL + LN+ NM+ MF)
for the measure of the whole surface.
Hence the theorem; if the line drawn through the cen
ler, etc.
Cor. It is evident that the surface generated by any
portion, as CD and DE, of the perimeter, is measured by
circ. mO x LM.
THEOREM XXV.
The surface of a sphere is measured by tht circumference
of one of its great circles multiplied by its diameter.
Let a sphere be generated by the revolution of the
uemi-circle, AHF, about its diameter, AF; then will the
surface of the sphere be measured by
Circ. AOx AF.
Inscribe in the semi-circle any regular semi-polygou,
and let it be revolved, with the semi-circle, about the axia

AF; the surface generated by its perim-
eter will be measured by
Circ. mOx AF, (Th. 24),
and this measure will hold true, how-
ever great the number of sides of the in- H|
scribed semi-polygon. But as the num-
ber of these sides is increased, the
radius mO, of the inscribed semi-circle,
increases and approaches equality with
the radius, AO; and when we reach the limit, by
making the number of sides indefinitely great, the radii
and semi-circles become equal, and the surface generated
by the perimeter of the inscribed semi-polygon becomes
the surface of the sphere. Therefore, the surface of the
sphere has, for its measure,
Circ. AOx AF.
Hence the theorem; the surface of a sphere is meas-
ured, etc.
Cor. 1. A zone of a sphere is measured by the circumfer-
ence of a great circle of the sphere multiplied by the altitude
of the zone.
For, the surface generated by any portion, as CD and
BE, of the perimeter of the inscribed semi-polygon has.
for its measure, circ. mO X LM, (Cor. Th. 24); and as
the number of the sides of the semi-polygon increases,
LM remains the same, the radius mO alone changing,
and becoming, when we reach the limit, equal to A 0;
bence, the surface of the zone is expressed by
Circ. AO X LM,
v. hether the zone have two bases, or but one.
Cor. 2. Let H and H' denote the altitudes of two
zones of spheres, whose radii are R and R'; then these
zones will be expressed by 2«R x H and 2*R' x II';
and if thfc surfaces of the zones be denoted by Z and Z\
we have
Z : Z': 2*R x H : 1«R' x H' :: R x ff : ii' x H'.
Hence, 1. Zones in different spheres are to each other as
their altitudes multiplied by the radii of the spheres.
2. Zones of equal altitudes are to each other as the radii
of the spheres.
3. Zones in the same, or equal spheres, are to each other as
their altitudes.
Cor. 3. Let R denote the radius of a sphere; then will
its diameter be expressed by 2R, and the circumference
of a great circle by 2rR; hence its surface will be ex
pressed by
2«R x 2R = 1<R*.
That is, the surface of a sphere is equivalent to the area of
four of its great circles.
Cor. 4. The surfaces of spheres are to each other as th*
squares of their radii.
THEOREM XXVI.
If a triangle be revolved about either of its sides as an axis,
the volume generated will be measured by one third of the prod-
uct of the axis and the area of a circle, having for its radius
the perpendicular let fall from the vertex of the opposite
angle on the axis, or on the axis produced.
First. Let the triangle ABC,
in which the perpendicular from
C falls on the opposite side, AB,
be revolved about AB as an axis;
then will *Vol. A ABC have, for
its measure, \AB x *GD.
The two A's into which A ABC is divided by the
perpendicular DC, are right-angled, and during the rev-
olution they will generate two cones, having for their
* Vol. A ABC, cone A ADC, are abbreviations for volume gener-
\ted by A ABC, cone generated by A ADC; and surfaces of revolu-
ticn generated by lines will hereafter be denoted by like abbreviations.

common base the circle, of which DC is the radius, and
foi* their axes the parts DA and DB, into which AB is
divided.

Now, *Cone A ADC is measured by \AD X *DC >
(Th. 21), and cone A BDC, by \BD x iDC'; but these
two cones compose Vol. A ABC; and by adding their
measures, we have, for that of Vol. A ABC,
\AD x *DC* + IBD x *~DC2 = \AB x *~DC\
Second. Let the trian- 9
gle EFG-, in which the
perpendicular from 6r
falls on the opposite side
EF produced, be revolved
about EF as an axis;
then will Vol. A EFG-
have, for its measure, \EF x *GBT', GS being the per-
pendicular on EF produced. For, in this case it is appa-
rent, that Vol. A EFG is the difference between tho
cone A EHGr and the cone A FHG. The first cone has,
for its measure, %EH x irGH2, and the second, for it?
measure, \FH x trGrJI2; hence, by subtraction, we have
Vol. A EFG = iEH X nGlf — \FHx xG~TP = \EF X *GR*.
Hence the theorem; if a triangle be revolved about either
of its sides, etc.
Scholium.—If we take either of the above expressions for the meas-
ure of the volume generated by the revolution of a triangle about ono
of its sides, for example the last, and factor it otherwise, we have
ort y G El
IEF X nQH* = EFx IGRXUX1GH= EFx IGHx —3—
Now. EF X \GS expresses the area of the triangle EFG; and
*l*t x CM
— , one third of the circumference described by the point G
o
during the revolution.
The expression, \AB X nDC*, maybe factored and interpreted in the
* See note on the preceding page.
19
G E 0 M £ T R V.
lame manner. Ilence, vre conclude that the voltimt generated />y tht
revolution of a triangle about either of its sides, is measured by the area
of the triangle multiplied by one third of the circumference described in
the revolution by the vertex of the angle opposite the axis.

THEOREM XXVII.
The volume generated by the revolution of a triangle about
*ny line lying in its plane, and passing through the vertex of
one of its anghs, is measured by the area of the triangle mul-
tiplied by two thirds of the circumference described, in the
revolution, by the middle point of the side opposite the vertex
through which the axis passes.
Let the triangle ABC he
revolved about the line
AG, drawn through the
vertex A, and lying in the
plane of the triangle, and
let HE be the perpendicu-
lar let fall from H, the
middle point of BC, upon
the axis AG; then will Vol. a ABC have, for its meas
ure, A ABC x £ circ. HE.
From the extremities of BC, let fall the perpendicu
lars BF and CD, on the axis; and from A draw JJTper
pendieular to BC, or BC produced, and produce CB,
until it meets the axis in G.
Now, it is evident that Vol. A ABC is the difference
between Vol. A AGC and Vol. A AGB. But Vol.
A AGC is expressed by a AGC x £ circ. CD; and Vol,
A AGB, by A AGB X £ circ. BF, (Scholium, Th. 26).
Hence,
Vol. A ABC = A AGO X } circ. CD — A AGB X J circ. BF.
Substituting for areas of A's, and for circumferences,
their measures, we have
Vol A ABO = GO X iAK X ^^R — GB x IAK X "^R?
o o
= GO X J^Z X ?1^£ — (GO— BC) X JJLK- X ^^
3
r=GCx IAK x^(OD — BF) + BC X }4£ X —„—.
But BNbeing drawn parallel to AG, we have
CiV= CD — BF;
hence, substituting this value for CD — BF, in the first
term of the second member of the last equation, we have
Vo\.AABC=GOxiAKx2^^+BOx^AKx ^F
o o
= GCx CN x \AK x2£ + BC x \AK x^^-, •
by changing the order of factors in the first term of the
second member. The homologous sides of the similar
triangles, GCD and BCN, give the proportion
GC : CD :: BC : CN
whence, GCxCN=CDx BC
Substituting this value for GC X CN, in the last equa-
tion above, and arranging the factors as before, it becomes
Vol. A ABC= BC x iAKx ^5 + BOx \AKx 2*'BF
8
BC x IAK x 2* (<3>+ *J3.
o
But CD + BF= 2HE; hence
Vol, A AB 0=--BOx lAKx^^=BCx %AKx %.2«.HE',
6
and since
BC x %AK= A ABO, and % x 2«.HE = § circfftf,
this measure conforms to the enunciation.
It only remains for us to consider the case in whic.1
the axis is parallel to the base BC of the triangle The
GEOMETRY.
F C B
A D F
precedi :g demonstration will not now apply, because it
supposes BC, or BC produced, to intersect the axis.
Let the axis AE, be parallel to the
base BC, of the a ABC. From B
and C let fall on the axis the perpen-
diculars BE and CD.
Now it is plain that
Vol. a.ABC=- cylinder rectangle BCDE +
cone a ADC— cone A AEB.
Substituting in second member, for cylinder and cones,
their measures, we have
Vol. A^BC= DE x *W + \AD x *VD'—\AE x *BE'
=*%DEx. *CD'+lDEx tW+^ADx *CD*—iAEx *BE\
But BE = CD, and \DE + \AD = \AE. Reducing by
these relations, we have
Vol. a ABC= IDE x *CD*= \DE x \CD x 4*.CZ>
= DE x \CDx %.1*.CD = BCx \CD x f.2*.CD.
And, since BC y. \CD expresses the area of the tri-
angle ABC, and \.1*.CD, two thirds of the circumfer-
ence described by any point of the base, this expression
also conforms to the enunciation.
Hence the theorem; the volume generated by the revela-
tion, etc.
Cor. If the generating
triangle becomes isosceles,
the perpendicular from A
meets the base at its middle
point. In this case, if we
resume the expression
o
it becomes

BC x
\AK x KM x i<
But, since AK is perpendicular to BC, and KE to BN
the a's AKE and CBN are similar, and their homolo-
gous sides give the proportion
BC : BN:: ^KT: iO?
whence, BCx KE = .SiVx AK
Changing the order of factors in the last expression oh
the preceding page, and replacing BCxKE by its value,
it, becomes
\AKx AKxBNx *t = AK* x BNx |*
Hence,
Vol. A ABC= §* x AK* x BN. = f* x AK* x DF
That is, the volume generated by the revolution of an isos -
celes triangle about any line drawn through its vertex and lying
in the plane of the triangle, is measured by §7r times the square
of the perpendicular of the triangle multiplied by the part of the
axis included between the two perpendiculars let fall upon it
from the extremities of the base of the triangle.
Scholium.—If we resume the equation
Vol. A ABC = BC X iAK X ^^
o
and change the order of the factors in the second member, it may be
put under the form
Vol. A ABC = BC X 2*.HE X \AK.
But during the revolution of the triangle, the side BC generates tha
surface of the frustum of a cone, which surface has for its measure
BC X 2tt.EE (Th. 20, Cor. 3).
Hence, the above equation may be thus interpreted: The volunt*
generated by the revolution of a triangle about any line lying in its plant
and passing through the vertex of one of its angles, is measured by the
surface generated, during the revolution, by the side opposite the vertea
through which the axis passes multiplied by one third of *he perpen-
dicular drawn from the vertex to that side.
19*
GEOMETR*.
THEOREM XXVIII.
If the line drawn through the center and vertices of two op-
posite angles of a regular polygon, of an even number of
sides, be taken as an axis of revolution, either semi-polygcn
thus formed will, during this revolution, generate a volume
which has, for its measure, the surface generated by the
perimeter of the semi-polygon multiplied by one third oj it*
apothem.
Let ABCDE be a regular semi-poly-
gon, cut off from a regular polygon
of an even number of sides, by draw-
ing a line througb the center, O, and
the vertices, A and E, of two opposite
angles of the polygon; „Len will the
volume generated by the revolution
of this semi-polygon about AE, as an
axis, be measured by (Sur. AE + sur.
BC+ sur. CD + sur. DE) x §£>m, Om
being the apothem of the polygon.
For, if from the center of O, the lines OB, OC, OD, be
drawn to the vertices of the several angles of the semi-
polygon, it will be divided into equal isosceles triangles,
the perpendicular of each being the apothem of the
polygon.
Now, the volume generated by A AOB has, for ita
measure,
Sur. AB x iOm,
that by A BOC, Sur. BC x J0m,
"A COD, Sur. CD x iOm,
"A DOE, Sur. DE x \Om, (Scholium, Th. 27).
Bj the addition of the measures of these partial vol-
umes, we find, for that of the whole volume,
Vol. semi-polygon ABCDE = sur. perimeter ABODE X IOm,
and were the number of the sides of the semi-polygon

increased or diminished, the reasoning would be in no
wise changed.
Hence the theorem; if the line drawn through the cen-
ter, etc.
Scholium.—The volume generated by any portion of the semi-poly-
gon, as that composed of the two isosceles &'a BOO, COD, is meas-
ured by
Sur. perimeter BCD X JOm.
THEOREM XXIX.
The volume of a sphere is measured by its surface multir
plied by one third of its radius.
Let a sphere be generated by the
revolution of the semicircle ACE,
about its diameter, AE, as an axis;
then will the volume of the sphere be
measured by
sur. semi-circ. OA x £OA.
For, inscribe in the semi-circle any
regular semi - polygon, as ABCDE,
and let it, together with the semi-cir-
cle, revolve about the axis AE. The
semi-polygon will generate a volume which has, for its
measure,
Sur. perimeter ABCDE x \Om, (Th. 28),
in which Om. is the apothem of the polygon.
Now, however great the number of sides of the in-
scribed regular semi-polygon, this measure forthevoluni«j
generated by it, will hold true; but when we reach the
limit, by making the number of sides indefinitely great,
the perimeter and apothem become, respectively, the
semi-circumference and its radius, and the volume gen
erated by the semi-polygon becomes that generated by
the semi-circle, that is, the sphere. Therefore,
Vol. sphere = sur. semi-circ. OA X \OA.

GEOMETRY.
Scholium 1.—If we take any portion of the inscribed semi-polygon,
as BOC, the volume generated by it is measured by sur. BO X iOm,
(Scholium, Th. 27); and when we pass to the limit, this volume be-
tomes a sector, and sur. BC a zone of the sphere, which zone is the
baBe of the sector. Hence, the volume of a spherical sector is measured
by the zone which forms its base multiplied by one third of the radius
vf the sphere.
Scholium 2. — Let ]i denote the radius cf a sphere; then will Hi
diameter be represented by 2R. Njw, since the surface of * sphere it
equivalent to the area of four of its great circles, and the area of a
great circle is expressed by rtli2, we have
Vol. sphere = 4«R2 x $R = 5*R'-
And since R* = J (1R )s, we also have
Vol. sphere = faR' = in(2B)K
Hence, the volume of a sphere is measured by four thirds of ~ times iht
cube of the radius, or by one sixth of - times the cube of the diameter.
THEOREM XXX.
The surface of a sphere is equivalent to two thirds of the
surface, bases included, and the volume of a sphere to two
thirds of the volume, of the circumscribing cylinder.
Let AMD be a semi-circle, and
ABCD a rectangle formed by BF
drawing tangents through the
middle point and extremities of
the semi-circumference, and let m;
the semi-circle and rectangle be
revolved together about AD as
an axis. The rectangle will thus C(f
generate a cylinder circumscribed
about the sphere generated by the semi-circle.
First. The diameter of the base, and the altitude Df
the cylinder, are each equal to the diameter of the
sphere; hence the convex surface of the cylinder, being
measured by the circumference of its base multiplied by
its altitude, (Cor. 1, Th. 20), has the same measure as
the surface of the sphere, (Th. 25). But the surface of
the sphere is equivalent to four great circles, (Oor. 3,

Tli. 25). Hence, the convex surface of the cylinder is
equivalent to four great circles; and adding to these the
bases of the cylinder, also great circles, we have the
whole surface of the cylinder equivalent to six great
circles. Therefore, the surface of the sphere is four
sixths = two thirds of the surface of the cylinder, in-
cluding its bases.
Second. The volume of the cylinder, being measured
by the area of the base multiplied by the altitude, (Cor.
1, Th. 22), is, in this case, measured by the area of a
great circle multiplied by its diameter = four great cir-
sles multiplied by one half the radius of the sphere.
But the volume of the sphere is measured by four
great circles multiplied by one third of the radius, (Scho-
lium 2, Th. 29). Therefore,
Vol. sphere : Vol. cylinder :: J : J :: 2 : 3;
whence, Vol. sphere = § Vol. cylinder.
Hence the theorem; the surface of a sphere is equiva-
lent, etc.
Cor. The volume of a sphere is to the volume of the cir-
cumscribed cylinder, as the surface of the sphere is to the sur-
face of the cylinder.
Scholium.—Any polyedron circumscribing a sphere, may be regarded
as composed of as many pyramids as the polyedron has faces, the cen-
ter of the sphere being the common vertex of these pyramids, and the
several faces of the polyedron their bases. The altitude of each pyra-
mid will be a radius of the sphere; hence the volume of any one pyra-
mid will be measured by the area of the face of the polyedron which
forms its base, multiplied by one third of the radius of the sphere.
Therefore, the aggregate of these pyramids, or the whole polyedron,
will be measured by the surface of the polyedron multiplied by one
third of the radius of the sphere.
But the volume of the sphere is also measured by the surface of the
sphere multiplied by one third of its radius. Hence,
Sur. polyedron ; Sur. sphere :: Vol. polyedron : Vol. sphere.
That is, the surface of any circumscribed polyedron is to the surface
of the sphere, at the volume of the polyedron is to the volume of tht
sphere.

TJEOREM XXXI.
The volume generated by the revolution of the segment cf a
circle about a diameter of the circle exterior to the segment, it
measured by one sixth of * times the square of the chord of
the segment, multiplied by the part of the axis included be-
tween the perpendiculars let fall upon it from the extremities
of the chord.
Let BCD be a segment of the circle,
whose center is O, and AH a part of a
diameter exterior to the segment. Draw
the chord BB, and from its extremities
let fall the perpendiculars, BF, DE on
AH; also draw Om perpendicular to
BD. The spherical sector generated
by the revolution of the circular sector
BCDO about AS, is measured by zone BD x \B0,
(Scholium 1, Th. 29), = 2*.BO X JSF X \BO = frlO* x
EF; and the volume generated by the isosceles triangle
BOD is measured by
f^W X EF, (Cor. 1, Th. 27).
The difference between these two volumes is that gen-
erated by the circular segment BCD, which has, there-
fore, for its measure,
l*EF(BO* — O^P) = l*EF x B~m, (Th. 39, B. I).
But since Bm = \BD, Bm* = \BD*; hence, by sub-
stituting, we have
Vol. segment BCD = %*EF x \BD' = faBD' x EF.
Hence the theorem.
THEOREM XXXII.
The volume cf a segment of a sphere has, for its measure,
the half sum of the bases of the segment multiplied by its alti-
tude, plus the volume of a sphere which has this altitude for
its diameter.

Lei BCB be the arc of a circle, and
BF and DE perpendiculars let fall
from its extremities upon a diameter, c^
of wLich AH is a part; then, if the
area BCDEF be revolved about AH n!
a? an axis, a spherical segment will
be generated, for the volume of which
it is proposed to find a measure.
The circular segment will generate a volume meas-
ured by \«BD* x EF, (Th. 31); and the frustum of the
cone generated by the trapezoid BDEF will have, for
its measure,
}rTBF' xEF+ \«DW xEF + \«BF xDEx EF, (Th. 22),
= i«EF(BF' + ~DE* + BF x DE).
.Rut the sum of these two volumes is the volume of
the spherical segment, which has, therefore, for ita
measure,
\«EF {BD* + 2BF* + 2DE* + 2BF X DE)
From B let fall the perpondicular Bn on DE; then will
Dn = DE—nE=DE — BF;
hence, Dn^ = DE* — 2BE x BF + BF*;
and since BB = Bn + Dn = EF' + Dn ,
we have BD' = EF' + DE' + BF'— 2DE x BF.
By substituting this value for BD*, in the above meas-
ure for the volume of the segment, we find
iHEFpW' + BE' + RF*—ID ExBF+ZBT+WE* + 2BFx.DE)
rr \HEF(EF2 + 3M!+ I'M*) = UEF' + EF (^DE +——).
Which last expression conforms to the enunciation.
Hence the theorem; the volume of a segment of a sphett,
etc.
Cor. "When the segment has but one base, BF becomes
eero, and EF becomes EA; and the final expression
which we found for the volume of the segment reduoei
to
2
Hence, A spherical segment having but one base, is equiva-
lent to a sphere whose diameter is the altitude of the segment,
plus om half of a cylinder having for base and altitude ths
base and altitude of the segment.
ScnoLiuu.—"When tho spherical segment has a single base, we may
put the expression, \itEA -f- EA X .——, under a form to indicate a
convenient practical rule for computing the volume of the segment.
Thus, since the triangle DEO is right-angled, and OE= OA — EA,
ire have
» • on i w r> i ~rn*
DE = DO — OE' = OA — OX + 10A X EA — EA
= 20A X EA—~EA'.
By substituting this value for DE' in the expression for the volume
of the segment, vre find
h*ET + EA X % X {20 A X EA — EA*)
= \hEA + EA* X | (20.4 — EA)
^=iHEA3+bt.3EA2 (20A — EA)
= IhEA\EA + 6.0A — 3EA)
= i*EA2(G-OA — 2EA)
= i*El\30A — EA)
Hence, the volume of a spherical segment, having a single bate, ti
measured by one third of tt times the square of the altitude of the seg-
ment, multiplied by the difference between three times the radius of tht
where and this altitude.
RECAPITULATION
Of some of the principles demonstrated in this and the pie-
ceding Books.
Let R denote the radius, and D the diameter of any
circle or sphere, and H the altitude of a coDe, or of a
segment of a sphere; then,
or,
Circumference of a circle = 2*.B.
Surface of a sphere = ixR*, or 7tZ?\
Zone forming the base of a 1 _ „ „ _
segment of a sphere, J
Volume or solidity of a sphere = {*R*, or ^tZ>*,
Volume of a spherical sector = f«i22 x H.
Volume of a cone, of which -v
H, is the radius of the V = J*i? x H.
base )
Volume of a spherical seg-'
ment, of which R' is the
radius of one base, and
R" the radius of the
other, and whose altitude
is IT,
If the segment has but one-v _ , _, TT*Rfl
base, R" = zero, and the I ~ ** + ~2~'
volume of the segment, J = \,tJI2(3R — B).
PRACTICAL PROBLEMS.
1. The diameter of a sphere is 12 inches; how many
cubic inches does it contain? Ans. 904.78 cu. in.
2. What is the solidity of the segment of a single base
that is cut from a sphere 12 inches in diameter, the altitude
of the segment being 3 inches? Ans. 141.372 cu. in.
3. The surface of a sphere is 68 square feet; what is
its diameter? Ans. D = 4.652 feet.
4. If from a sphere, whose surface is 68 square feet, a
segment be cut, having a depth of two feet and a single
base, what is the convex surface of the segment?
Ans. 29.229+ sq. ft.
5. What is the solidity of the sphere mentioned in the
two preceding examples, and what is the solidity of the
segment, having a depth of two feet;, and but one baseT
. J So'idity of sphere, 52.71 cu.-ft.'
\ " "segment 20 8$"
20
6. Jn a sphere whose diameter is 20 feet, what is the
solidity of a segment, the bases of which are on the same
side of the center, the first at the distance of 3 feet from
it, and the second of 5 feet; and what is the solidity of
a second segment of the same sphere, whose bases are
also on the same side of the center, and at distances
from it, the first of 5 and the second of 7 feet?
a ( Solidity of first segment, 525.7 en. ft
**'l " "second" 400.03"
7. If the diameter of the single base of a spherical
segment be 16 inches, and the altitude of the segment 4
inches, what is its solidity ? *
Ana. 435.6352 cubic inches.
8. The diameter of one base of a spherical segment is
18 inches, and that of the other base 14 inches, these
bases being on opposite sides of the center of the sphere,
and the distance between them 9 inches; what is the
volume of the segment, and the radius of the sphere?
. ( Vol. seg., 2219.5 cubic inches.
\ Bad. of sphere, 9.4027 inches.
9. The radius of a sphere is 20, the distance from the
center to the greater base of a segment is 10, and the
distance from the same point to the lesser base is 16;
what is the volume of the segment, the bases being on
the same side of the center? Ana. 4297.7088.
10. If the diameter of one base of a spherical segment
be 20 miles, and the diameter of the other base 12 miles,
and the altitude of the segment 2 miles, what is its
solidity, and what is the diameter of the sphere?
* First find the radios of the sphere.
Note.—The Key to this work contains full solutions to all the problems in
the Geometry and Trigonomstry, and the necessary diagrams for illustration.
BOOK VIII.
PRACTICAL GEOMETRY.
APPLICATION OF ALGEBRA TO GEOMETRY, AND ALSO
PROPOSITIONS FOR ORIGINAL INVESTIGATION.
No definite rules can be given for the algebraic solu-
tion of geometrical problems. The student must, in a
a great measure, depend on his own natural tact, and
his power of making a skillful application of the geomet-
rical and analytical knowledge he has thus far obtained.
The known quantities of the problem should be repre-
sented by the first letters of the alphabet, and the un-
known by the final letters; and the relations between
these quantities must be expressed by as many inde-
pendent equations as there are unknown quantities. To
obtain the equations of the problem, we draw a figure,
the parts of which represent the known and unknown
magnitudes, and very frequently it will be found neces-
sary to draw auxiliary lines, by means of which we cau
deduce, from the conditions enunciated, others that can
be more conveniently expressed by equations. In many
cases the principal difficulty consists in finding, from the
relations directly given in the statement, those which
are ultimately expressed by the equations of the problem.
Raving found these equations, they are treated by the
known rules of algebra, and the values of the required
magnitudes determined in terms of those given.
GEOMETRT.
PROBLEM I.
Given, the hypotenuse, and the sum of the other two lidet
»f a right-angled triangle, to determine the triangle.
Let ABC be the A. Put CB = y, AB
=. x,AC = h, and CB + AB = s. Then,
by a given condition, we have
x + y = s;
and, x»+ y2= h\ (Th. 39, B. I). >
"Reducing these two equations, and we have
z = $8±$^2h' —?; y = \s±\^2ht — tt.
If h = 5 and * = 7, a; = 4 or 3, and y = 3 or 4.
Remark. — In place of putting x to represent one side, and y the
other, we might put (z + y) to represent the greater side, and (x — jr)
the less side; then,
ft
x* + y* = o > and 2x = », etc.

PROBLEM II.
Given, the base and perpendicular of a triangle, to find th*
tide of its inscribed square.
Let ABC be the A. Put
AB = b, the base, CD = p,
the perpendicular.
Draw EF parallel to AB,
and suppose it equal to EG,
a side of the required square; and put EF = x.
Thou, by similar A's, we have
CI: EF :: CD : AB.
That is, p — x : x :: p : b.

Hence,
bp — bx = px: or, x = . . .
b+p
That is, the tide of the inscribed square is equal to tht
product of the base and altitude, divided by their sum.
233

PROBLEM III.
In a triangle, having given the sides about the vertical
angle, and the line bisecting that angle and terminating in
the base, to find the base.
Ijtst ABC be the a, and let a cir-
cle be circumscribed about it. Di-
vide the arc AEB into two equal
partu at the point E, and draw EC.
This line bisects the vertical angle,
(Cor., Th. 9, B. III). Draw BE.
Put AD = x, DB = y, AC = a,
OB = b, CD = c, and DE = w. The two A's, ABO and
EBC, are equiangular; from which we have
w + c : b :: a : e; or, cw + C = ab; (1)
But, as EC and AB are two chords that intersect each,
other in a circle, we have
cw = xy, (Th.' 17, B. LIT).
Therefore, xy + e' = ab. (2)
But, as CB bisects the vertical angle, vi o have
a : b :: x : y, (Th. 24, B. LT).
Or, x = % (3)
o
Hence, $/* + c' = ab; or, y = \f V
And, x=l\/b' — — .
a
Now, as x and y are determined, the base is deter
mined.
Remark. — Opserve that equation (2) is Theorem 20, Book III
20*

PROBLEM IV.
To determine a triangle, from the base, the line bisecting
the vertical angle, and the diameter of the circumscribing nrcle.
Describe the circle on the given
diameter, AB, and divide it into two
parts, in the point D, so that AD x
DB shall be equal to the square of
oue half the given base, (Th. 17, B.III).
Through D draw EDG, at right
angles to AB, and EG will be the given base of the
triangle.
Put AD = «, DB = m, AB = d, DGr = b.
Then, n + m = d, and nm = b';
and these two equations will determine n and m; there-
fore, we shall consider n and m as known.
Now, suppose EHG to be the required A; and draw
HIB and HA. The two A's, ABH, DBI, are equian-
gular; and, therefore, we have
AB : HB :: IB : BB.
But SI is a given line, that we will represent by c,
and if we put IB = w, we shall have HB = c + to; then
the above proportion becomes,
d : c + w :: w : m.
Now, w can be determined by a quadratic equation;
Mid, therefore, IB is a known line.
In the right-angled A DBI, the hypotenuse IB, and
the base DB, are known; therefore, DI is known, (Th.
39, B. I); and if DI is known, .tfJand IG are known.
Lastly, let EH= x, HGr = y, and put EI=p, and 10
Then, by Theorem 20, Book m, pq + c' = xy (1)
But, x: t, ::p : 9(Th.24,B.Il)
23*
Or,
z=M
(2)
Now, from equations (1) and (2) we can determine x
andjr, the sides of the A; and thus the determination ha?
been attained, carefully and easily, step by step.
PROBLEM V.
Tliree equal circles touch each other externally, and thut
inclose one acre of ground; what is the diameter in rods of
each of these circles?
Draw three equal circles to touch each other exter-
nally, and join the three centers, thus forming a triangle.
The lines joining the centers will pass
through the points of contact, (Th. 7,
B.m).
Let R represent the radius of these
equal circles; then it is obvious that
each side of this A is equal to 2R.
The triangle is therefore equilateral,
and it incloses the given area, and three equal sectors.
As the angle of each sector is one third of two right
angles, the three sectors are, together, equal to a semi-
circle; but the area of a semi-circle, whose radius is It, is
expressed by -—-; and the area of the whole triangle
A
must be — +160; but the area of the A is also equal .to
R multiplied by the perpendicular altitude, which if
RV3.

Therefore,
Or,
ijV5 = ^!-f 160.
iJ»(2%/3 — *) = 320.
320
= 992.248.
2>/3 —3.1415926 0.3225
Hence, R = 31.48 + rods, for the required result.
Problem VI.—In a right-angled triangle, having given
the base and the sum of the perpendicular and hypotenuse,
to find these two sides.
Prob. VII.— Given, the base and altitude of a triangle, to
divide it into three equal parts, by lines parallel to the base.
Prob. VIII.—In any equilateral £, given the length of
the three perpendiculars drawn from any point within, tc tha
three sides, to determine the sides.
Prob. IX.—In a right-angled triangle, having given the
base, (3), and the difference between the hypotenuse and per-
pendicular, (1), to find both these two sides.
Prob. X. — In a right-angled triangle, having given the
hypotenuse, (5), and the difference between the base and
perpendicular, (1), to determine both these two sides.
Prob. 1£1.—Having given the area of a rectangle inscribed
in a given triangle, to determine the sides of the rectangle.
Prob. XLI.—In a triangle, having given the ratio of the
two sides, together with both the segments of the base, made
by a perpendicular from the vertical angle, to determine the
tides of the triangle.
Prob. XLH.—In a triangle, having given the base, the
sum of the other two sides, and the length of a line drawn
from the vertical angle to the middle of the base, to find the
sides of the triangle.
Prob. XTV.—To determine a right-angled triangle, having
given the lengths of two lines drawn from the acute angles to
*he middle of the opposite sides.
Prob. XV.— To determine a right-angled triangle, having
given the perimeter, and the radius of the inscribed circle.
Prob. XVI.— To determine a triangle, having given the
base, the perpendicular, and the ratio of the two sides.
Prob. XVH.—To determine a right-angled triangle, having
given the hypotenuse, and the side of the inscribed square.
Prob. XV ill. — To determine the radii of three equal cir-
cles inscribed in a given circle, and tangent to each other, and
also to the circumference of the given circle.
Prob. XIX.—In a right-angled triangle, having given the
perimeter, or sum of all the sides, and the 'perpendicular let
fall from the right angle on the hypotenuse, to determine the
triangle; that is, its sides.
Prob. XX.—To determine a right-angled triangle, having
given the hypotenuse, and the difference of two lines drawn
from the two acute angles to the center of the inscribed circle.
Prob. XXI. — To determine a triangle, having given the
base, the perpendicular, and the difference of the two other
sides.
Prob. XXII. — To determine a triangle, having given the
base, the perpendicular, and the rectangle, or product of the
two sides.
Prob. XXTTT.—To determine a triangle, having given the
lengths of three lines drawn from the three angles to the mid-
dle of the opposite sides.
Prob. XXIV. — In a triangle, having given all the three
sides, to find the radius of the inscribed circle.
Prob. XXV.—To determine a right-angled triangle, having
given the side of the inscribed square, and the radius of the
inscribed circle.
Prob. XXVI. — To determine a triangle, and the radius
of the inscribed circle, having given the lengths of three lines
it awn from the three angles to the center of that circle.
Prob XXVTI. — To determine a right-angled triangle,
having given the hypotenuse, and the radius of the inscribed
tirole.
Prob. XXVJLII.—The lengths of two parallel chords on the
tame side of the center being given, and their distance apart,
to determine the raJius of the circle.
Prob. XXTX. — The lengths of two chords in the tamt
circle being given, and also the differense of their distance*
from the center, to find the radius of the circle.
Prob.XXX.—The radius of a circle being given, and also
the rectangle of the segments of a chord, to determine the dis-
tance, of the point at which the chord is divided, from tht
center.
Prob. XXXI.—If each of the two equal sides of an isos-
celes triangle be represented by a, and the base by 2b, what
will be the value of the radius of the inscribed circle?
. „ b^a' — b*
Ans. R = —.
a + b
Prob. XX XI I. — From a point without a circle whose
diameter is d, a line equal to d is drawn, terminating in the
concave arc, and this line is bisected at the first point in which
it meets the circumference. What is the distance of the point
without from the center of the circle?
It is not deemed necessary to multiply problems in the
application of algebra to geometry. The preceding will
be a sufficient exercise to give the student a clear con-
ception of the nature of such problems, and will serve as
a guide for the solution of others that may be proposed
to him, or that may be invented by his own ingenuity.
MISCELLANEOUS PROPOSITIONS.
We shall conclude this book, and the subject of Geom-
etry, by offering the following propositions, — some the-
orems, others problems, and some a combination ot both,
—not only for the purpose of impressing, by application,
the geometrical principles which have now been estab-
lished, but for the not less important purpose of culti-
vating the power of independent investigation.
After one or two propositions in which the beginnei
will be assisted in the analysis and construction, we shall
loave him to his own resources, with the caution that a
239

-D
patient consideration of all the conditions in each case,
and not mere trial operation, is the only process by which
he can hope to reach the desired result.
1. From two given points, to draw two equal straight
lines, which shall meet in the same point in a given
straight line.
Let A and B be the given points,
»nd CD the given straight line. Pro-
dace the perpendicular to the straight
line AB at its middle point, until it
meets CD in G. It is then easily
proved that G is the point in CD in
which the equal lines from A and
B must meet. That is, that AG
= BG.
If the points A and B were on
opposite sides of CD, the directions
for the construction would be the
same, and we should have this fig-
ure; but the reasoning by which
we prove AG = BG would be un-
changed.
2. From two given points on the same side of a given
straight line, to draw two straight lines which shall meet
in the given line, and make equal angles with it.
Let CD be the given line, and
A and B the given points.
From B draw BE perpendicular
to CD, and produce the perpen-
licular to F, making EF equal to
BE; then draw AF, and from the
point G, in which it intersects
CD, draw GB. Now, [_B GE=*
\_EGF =\_AGC. Hence, the
angles BGD and -iff Care equal,
and the lines AG and BG meet
in a common point in the line CD, and made equal angles wit*
that line.


8. If, from a point without a circle, two straight linet
be drawn to the concave part of the circumference, making
equal angles with the line joining the same point and the
center, the parts of these lines which are intercepted within
the circle, are equal.
4. If a circle be described on the radius of another circle,
any straight line drawn from the point where they meet,
to the outer circumference, is bisected by the interior one.
5. From two given points on the same side of a line
given in position, to draw two straight lines which shall
contain a given angle, and be terminated in that line.
6. If, from any point without a circle, lines be drawn
touching the circle, the angle contained by the tangents is
double the angle contained by the line joining the points
of contact and the diameter drawn through one of them.
7. If, from any two points in the circumference of a
circle, there be drawn two straight lines to a point in a
tangent to that circle, they will make the greatest angle
when drawn to the point of contact.
8. From a given point within a giv<m circle, to draw a
straight line which shall make, with the circumference,
an angle, less than any angle made by any other line
drawn from that point.
9. If two circles cut each other, the greatest line that
can be drawn through either point of intersection, is that
which is parallel to the line joining their centers.
10. If, from any point within an equilateral triangle,
perpendiculars be drawn to the sides, their sum is equal
to a perpendicular drawn from any of the angles to the
opposite side.
11. If the points of bisection of the sides of a given tri-
angle be joined, the triangle so formed will be one fourth
of the given triangle.
12. The difference of the angles at the base of any tri-
angle, is double the angle contained by a line drawn from
the vertex perpendicular to the base, and another bisect-
ng the angle at the vertex.
13. If, from the three angles of a triangle, lines be
irawn to the points of bisection of the opposite sides,
'bese lines intersect each other in the same point.
14. The three straight lines which bisect the three
angles of a triangle, meet in the same point.
15. The two triangles, formed by drawing straight
lines from any point within a parallelogram to the ex-
tremities of two opposite sides, are, together, one half the
parallelogram.
16. The figure formed by joining the points of bisection
of the sides of a trapezium, is a parallelogram.
17. If squares be described on three sides of a right-
angled triangle, and the extremities of the adjacent sides
be joined, the triangles so formed are equivalent to the
given triangle, and to each other.
18. If squares be described on the hypotenuse and sides
of a right-angled triangle, and the extremities of the sides
of the former, and the adjacent sides of the others, be
joined, the sum of the squares of the lines joining them
will be equal to five times the square of the hypotenuse.
19. The vertical angle of an oblique-angled triangle
inscribed in a circle, is greater or less than a right angle,
by the angle contained between the base and the diam-
eter drawn from the extremity of the base.
20. If the base of any triangle be bisected by the diam
eter of its circumscribing circle, and, from the extremity
of that diameter, a perpendicular be let fall upon the
longer side, it will divide that side into segments, one of
which will be equal to one half the sum, and the other to
one half the difference, of the sides.
21. A straight line drawn from the vertex of an equi
lateral triangle inscribed in a c'rclc, to any point in the
opposite circumference, is equal to the sum of the two lines
which are drawn from the extremities of the base to the
eame point.
22. The straight line bisecting any angle of a triangle
21 Q
inscribed in a given circle, cuts the circumference in a
point which is equi-distant from the extremities of the
side opposite to the bisected angle, and from the center
of a circle inscribed in the triangle.
23. If, from the center of a circle, a line be drawn to
any point in the chord of an arc, the square of that line,
together with the rectangle contained by the segments
of the chord, will be equal to the square described on the
radius.
24. If two points be taken in the diameter of a circle,
equidistant from the center, the sum of the squares of the
two lines drawn from these points to any point in the cir-
cumference, will be always the same.
25. If, on the diameter of a semicircle, two equal circles
be described, and in the space included by the three cir-
cumferences, a circle be inscribed, its diameter will be £
the diameter of either of the equal circles.
26. If a perpendicular be drawn from the vertical angle
of any triangle to the base, the difference of the squares
of the sides is equal to the difference of the squares of
the segments of the base.
27. The square described on the side of an equilateral
triangle, is equal to three times the square of the radius
of the circumscribing circle.
28. The sum of the sides of an isosceles triangle is less
than the sum of the sides of any other triangie on the same
base and between the same parallels.
29 In any triangle, given one angle, a side adjacent to
the given angle, and the difference of the other two sides,
to oonstruct the triangle.
30. In any triangle, given the base, the sum of tiw
other two sides, and the angle opposite the base, to con-
struct the triangle.
31. In any triangle, given the base, the angle opposite
lo the base, and the difference of the other two sides, to
instruct the triangle.
BOOK IX.
SPHERICAL GEOMETRY.
DEFINITIONS.
1. Spherical Geometry has for its object the investiga-
tion of the properties, and of the relations to each other,
of the portions of the surface of a sphere which are
bounded by the arcs of its great circles.
2. A Spherical Polygon is a portion of the surface of a
sphere bounded by three or more arcs of great circles, called
the sides of the polygon.
3. The Angles of a spherical polygon are the angles
formed by the bounding arcs, and are the same as the
angles formed by the planes of these arcs.
4. A Spherical Triangle is a spherical polygon having
but threo sides, each of which is less than a semi-circum-
ference.
5. A Lune is a portion of the surface of a sphere in-
cluded between tn o great semi-circumferences having a
common diameter.
6. A Spherical 'Wodgei or Ungula, is a portion of the
solid sphere included between two great semi-circles having
a common diameter
7. A Spherical Pyramid is a portion of a sphere bounded
by the faces of a solid angle having its vertex at the
center, and the spherical polygon which these faces inter-
cept on the surface. This spherical polygon is called the
base of the pyramid.
8. The Axis of a great circle of a sphere is that diameter
of the sphere which is perpendicular to the plane of the
circle. This diameter is also the axis of all small circles
parallel to the great circle.
9. A Pole of a circle of a sphere is a point on the sur-
face of the sphere equally distant from every point in the
circumference of the circle.
10. Supplemental, or Polar Triangles, are two triangles on
a sphere, so related that the vertices of the angles of
either triangle are the poles of the sides of the other.
PROPOSITION I.
Any two sides of a spherical triangle are together greater
than the third side.
Let AB, AC, and BC, be the three
sides of the triangle, and D the center
of the sphere.
The angles of the planes that form
the solid angle at D, are measured by
the arcs AB, AG, and .5(7. But any
two of these angles are together greater
than the third angle, (Th. 18, B. VI). Therefore, any two
sides of the triangle are, together, greater than 'he third side.
Hence the proposition.
PROPOSITION II.
The sum of the three sides of any spherical triangle is lew
than the circumference of a great circle.
Let ABC be a spherical triangle; the two sides, AB
and AC, produced, will meet at the point which is diame-
trically opposite to A, and the arcs, ABD and ACJ) are

book, ix 245

together equal to a great circle. But,
by the last proposition, BC is less
than the two arcs, BD and DC. There-
fore, AB + BC + AC, is less than
ABD + AQD; that is, less than a
great circle.
Hence the proposition.
PROPOSITION III.
The extremities of the axis of a great circle of a sphere
are the poles of the great circle, and these points are also
the poles of all small circles parallel to the great circle.
Let O he the center of
the sphere, and BD the
axis of the great circle,
Cm Am"; then will B and
D, the extremities of th6
axis, be the poles of the
circle, and also the poles
of any parallel small cir-
cle, as FnE.
For, since BD is per-
pendicular to the plane
of the circle, Cm Am", it
is perpendicular to the lines OA, Om', Om", etc., passing
through its foot in the plane, (Def. 2, B. VI); hence, all
the arcs, Bm, Bm', etc., are quadrants, as are also the
arcs Dm, Dm', etc. The points B and D are, therefore,
each equally distant from all the points in the circumfer-
ence, Cm Am"; hence, (Def. 9), they are its poles.
Again, since the radius, OB, is perpendicular to the
plane of the circle, Cm Am", it is also perpendicular to
the plane of the pai-allel small circle, FnE, and passes
through its center, O'. Now, the chords of the arcs, BF,
Bn, BE, etc., being obique lines, meeting the plane of
the small circle a* equal distances from the foot of the

perpendicular, BO', are all equal, (Th. 4, B. VI); hence,
the arcs themselves are equal, and B is one pole of the
circle, FnE. In like manner we prove the arcs, DF, Dn,
DE, etc., equal, and therefore D is the other pole of the
same circle.
*Hence the proposition, etc.
Cor. 1. A point on the surface of a sphere at the distance
of a quadrant from two points in the arc of a great cirtle, not
at the extremities of a diameter, is a pole of that arc.
For, if the arcs, Bm, Bm', are each quadrants, the angles,
BOm and BOm', are each right angles; and hence, BO
is perpendicular to the plane of the lines, Om and Om!,
which is the plane of the arc, mm'; B is therefore the
pole of this arc.
Cor. 2. The angle included between the arc of a great circle
and the are of another great circle, connecting any of its points
with the pole, is a right angle.
For, since the radius, BO, is perpendicular to the plane
of the circle, Cm Am", every plane passed through this
radius is perpendicular to the plane of the circle; hence,
the plane of the arc Bm is perpendicular to that of the
arc Cm; and the angle of the arcs is that of their planes.
PROPOSITION IV.
The angle formed by two arcs of great circles which inter-
sect each other, is equal to the angle included between the tan-
gents to these arcs at their point of intersection, and is meas-
ured by that arc of a great circle whose pole is the vertex of
the angle, and which is limited by the sides of the angle or
the sides produced.
Let AM and AN be two arcs intersecting at the
point A, and let AE and AF be the tangents to these
arcs at this point. Take AC and AD, each quadrants,
and draw the arc CD, of which A is the pole, and OC
and OD are the radii.
247

Now, since the planes of the arcs intersect in the radios
OA, and AE is a tangent to one arc, and AF a tangent
to the other, at the common point A,
these tangents form with each other an
angle which is the measure of the angle
of the planes of the arcs; but the angle
of the planes of the arcs is taken as the
angle included by the arcs, "(Def. 3).
Again, because the arcs, AC and AD,
are each quadrants, the angles, A OC,
AOD, are right angles; hence the radii,
OC and OD, which lie, one in one face,
and the other in the other face, of the
diedral angle formed by the planes of the arcs, are
perpendicular to the common intersection of these faces
at the same point. The angle, COD, is therefore the
angle of the planes, and consequently the angle of the
arcs; but the angle COD is measured by the arc CD.
Hence the proposition.
Cor. 1. Since the angles included between the arcs of
great circles on a sphere, are measured by other arcs of
great circles of the same sphere, we may compare such
angles with each other, and construct angles equal to
other angles, by processes which do not differ in principle
from those by which plane angles are compared and con-
structed.
Cor. 2. Two arcs of great circles will form, by their in-
tersection, four angles, the opposite or vertical ones of
which will be equal, as in the case of the angles formed
by the intersection of straight lines, (Th. 4, B. I).
PROPOSITION V.
The surface of a hemisphere may be divided into three right-
angled and four quadrantal triangles, and one of these right-
angled triangles will be so related to the other two, that two
of its sides and one of its angles will be complemented to th*

tides of one of them, and two of its sides supplemental to tun
of the sides of the other.
Let ABC be a right-angled spherical triangle, right
angled at B.
Produce the sides, AB and AC, and
they will meet at A', the opposite
point on the sphere. Produce BC.
both ways, 90° from the point B, to
P and P', which are, therefore, poles
to the arc AB, (Prop. 3). Through
A, P, and the center of the sphere,
pass a plane, cutting the sphere into
two equal parts, forming a great circle on the sphere,
which great circle will be represented by the circle
PAP'A' in the figure. At right angles to this plane,
pass another plane, cutting the sphere into two equal
parts; this great circle is represented in the figure by the
straight line, POP'. A and A' are the poles to the great
circle, POP'; and P and P' are the poles to the great
circle, ABA'.
Now, CPD is a spherical triangle, right-angled at J),
and its sides CP and CD are complemental respectively
to the sides BC and AC of the A ABC, and its side PD
is complemental to the arc DO, which measures the
\_BACof the same triangle. Again, the A A'BCis right-
angled at B. and its sides A'C, A'B, are supplemental
respectively to the sides A C, AB, of the &ABC. There-
fore, the three right-angled A's, ABC, CPD, and A'BC,
have the required relations. In the A ACP, the 6ide AP
is a quadrant, and for this reason the A is called a quad-
rantal triangle. So also, are the A's A'CP, ACP', and
P'CA', quadrantal triangles. Hence the proposition.
Scholium.—In every triangle there are nix elements, three sides and
three angles, called the parts of the triangle.
Now, if all the parts of the triangle AliC are known, the parts of
each of the A's, PCD and A'BC, are as completely known. And
when the parts of the A PCD aro known, the parts of the A'8 ACI
and A'CP are also known; for, the side PD measures each of the I 'a
P4Cand PA'C, and the angle CPD, added to the right angle A'PD,
gives the | A'PC, and the [ CPA is supplemental to this. Hence,
the solution of the A ABO is a solution of the two right-angled and
four quadrantal A's, which together with it make up the surface of
the hemisphere.
PROPOSITION VI.
If there be three arcs of great circles whose poles are the
angular points of a spherical triangle, such arcs, if produced,
will form another triangle, whose sides will be supplemental
to the angles of the first triangle, and the sides of the first
triangle will be supplemental to the angles of the second.
Let the arcs of the three great cir-
cles be GH, PQ, KL, whose poles are
respectively A, B, and C. Produce the
three arcs until they meet in D, E, and
F. "We are now to prove that E is the
pole of the arc AC; D the pole of the
arc BC; F the pole to the arc AB.
Also, that the side EF, is supplemental
to the angle A; ED to the angle C;
and DF to the angle B; and also, that the side AC i»
supplemental to the angle E, etc.
A pole is 90° from any point in the circumference of
its great circle; and, therefore, as A is the pole of the
arc GH, the point A is 90° from the point E. As C is
the pole of the arc LK, C is 90° from any point i*
that arc; therefore, C is 90° from the point E; and
E being 90° from both A and C, it is the pole of the arc
A C. In the same manner, we may prove that D is the
pole of BC, and JPthe pole of AB.
Because A is the pole of the arc Gff, the arc GR
measures the angle A, (Prop. 4); for a similar reason,
PQ measures the angle B, and LK measures the angle Q,
Because E is the pole of the arc AC, EH= 90°
Or, EG + GR= 90°
For a like reason, FR+ GS = 90c

10
Adding these two equations, and observing that GF
>= A, and afterward transposing one A, we have,
EG + GH + FE = 180° — A.
Or, EF=IW°—A ~\
In like manner, FD = 180° — B \ (°)
And, DE = 180° — O J
But the arc (180°—A), is a supplemental arc to A, by
the definition of arcs; therefore, the three sides of the
triangle DEF, are supplements of the angles A, B, C, of
the triangle ABC.
Again, as E is the pole of the arc AC, the whole angle
E is measured by the whole arc LE.
But, AC+CH= 90°
Also, AC + AL = 90°
}
By addition, AC+AC+CH+ AL = 180°
By transposition, AC+ CE+AL=180°—AC
That is, LH, or E= 180°—AC
In the same manner, F = 180°—AB [ (&)
And, D=180°—BC
That is, the sides of the first triangle are supplemental
to the angles of the second triangle.
PROPOSITION Til.
The sum of the three angles of any spherical triangle, is
reater than two right angles, and less than six right angles.
Add equations (a), of the last proposition. The first
nemher of the equation so formed will be the sum of
the three sides of a spherical triangle, which sum we
may designate by S. The second member will be 6 right
angles (there being 2 right angles in each 180°) less the
three angles A, B, and C.
That is, S = 6 right angles — (A + B + 0)
By Prop. 2, the sam S is less than 4 right angles;
therefore, to it add a, a sufficient quantity to make 4
right angles. Then,
4 right angles = 6 right angles — (-4. + B + (7) -f «
Drop or cancel 4 right angles from both members, and
transpose (A + B + C).
Then, A + B + C = 2 right angles + s.
That is, the three angles of a spherical triangle make
a greater sum than two right angles by the indefinite
quantity s, which quantity is culled the spherical excess,
and is greater or less according to the size of the triangle.
Again, the sum of the angles is less than 6 right angles.
There are but three angles in any triangle, and each one of
them must be less than 180°, or 2 right angles. For, an
angle is the inclination of two lines or two planes; and
when two planes incline by 180°, the planes are parallel,
or are in one and the same plane; therefore, as neither
angle can be equal to 2 right angles, the three can never
be equal to 6 right angles.
PROPOSITION VIII.
On the same sphere, or on equal spheres, triangles which
are mutually equilateral are also mutually equiangular; and,
conversely, triangles wl'ich are mutually equiangular are also
mutually equilateral, equal sides lying opposite equal angles.
First.—-Let ABC and DEF, in
which AB = DE, AC= DF, and
BC = EF, be two triangles on
the sphere whose center is O;
then will the |_ A, opposite the
side BC, in the first triangle, be
equal the |_D, opposite the equal
side EF, in the second; also
L^o| E, andl_0=l F.

For, drawing the radii to the vertices of the angles of
these triangles, we may conceive O to he the common
vertex of two triedral angles, one of which is hounded
by the plane angles AOB, BOC, and AOC, and the other
by the plane angles DOE, EOF, and J)OF. Bat the
plane angles bounding the one of these triedral angles,
are equal to the plane angles bounding the other, each
to each, since they are measured by the equal sides of the
two triangles. The planes of the equal arcs in the two
triangles are therefore equally inclined to each other,
(Th. 20, B. VI); but the angles included between the
planes of the arcs are. equal to the angles formed by the
arcs, (Def. 3).
Hence the [_ 4, opposite the side BC, in the A ABC,
is equal to the |_ D, opposite the equal side EF, in the
other triangle; and for a similar reason, the \_B= [_E,
and the [_C=\_F.
Second.—If, in the triangles ABC and DEF, being on
the same sphere whose center is O, the \_A = \_D, the
\_B = [_E, and the LC= L^; then ^ the side AB,
opposite the [_ C, in the first, be equal to the side DE,
opposite the equal [_F, in the second; and also the side
AC equal to the side DF, and the side BC equal to the
side EF.
For, conceive two triangles, denoted by A'B'C and
D'E'F', supplemental to ABC and DEF, to be formed;
then will these supplemental triangles be mutually equi-
lateral, for their sides are measured by 180° less the
O] posite and equal angles of the triangles ABC and
DEF, (Prop. 6); and being mutually equilateral, they
are, as proved above, mutually equiangular. But the
triangles ABC and DEF are supplemental to the tri-
angles A'B'C and D'E'F'; and their sides are therefore
measured severally by 180° less the opposite and equal
angles of the triangles A'B'C and D'E'F', (Prop. 6\
Hence the triangles ABC and DEF, which are mutually
equiangular, are also mutually equilateral.
Scholium.—With the three ares of great circles, AB, AC, and BO,
either of the two triangles, ABC, DEF, may be formed; but it is evi-
dent that these two triangles cannot be made to coincide, though they
are both mutually equilateral and mutually equiangular. Sphericul
triangles on the same sphere, or on equal spheres, in which the sides
and angles of the one are equal to the sides and angles of the other,
»ach to each, but are not themselves capable of superposition, are
sailed symmetrical triangles.
PROPOSITION IX.
On the same sphere, or on equal spheres, triangles having
two sides of the one equal to two sides of the other, each to
each, and the included angles equal, have their remaining
sides and angles equal.
Let ABC and DEF be two
triangles, in which AB = DE,
AC = DF, and the angle A =
the angle D; then will the side
BO be equal to the side FE,
the L B = the [_E, and |_ C
For, if DE lies on the same
side of DF that AB does of AC, the two triangles, ABC
and DEF, may be applied the one to the other, and they
may be proved to coincide, as in the case of plane tri-
angles. But, if DE does not lie on the same side of DI
that AB does of A C, we may construct the triangle which
s symmetrical with DEF; and this symmetrical triangle,
flrhen applied to the triangle ABC, will exactly coincide
with it. But the triangle DEF, and the triangle sym-
metrical with it, are not only mutually equilateral, but
also are mutually equiangular, the equal angles lying
opposite (he equal sides, (Prop. 8); and as the one or the
other will coincide with the triangle ABC, it follows that

the triangles, ABC and DEE, are either absolutely 01
symmetrically equal.
Cor. On the same sphere, or on equal spheres, triangles
having two angles of the one equal to two angles of the other,
each to each, and the included sides equal, have their remain-
ing sides and angles equal.
For, if [_A = L A L# = [_E, and side AB = side
BE, the triangle DEF, or the triangle symmetrical with
it, will exactly coincide with A ABC, when applied to it
as in the case of plane triangles; hence, the sides and
angles of the one will be equal to the sides and angles
of the other, each to each.
PROPOSITION X.
In an isosceles spherical triangle, the angles opposite tht
equal sides are equal.
Let ABC be an isosceles spherical tri-
angle, in which AB and AC are the equal
sides; then will |_ B = |_ C.
For, connect the vertex A with D, the
middle point of the base, by the arc of a
great circle, thus forming the two mutu-
ally equilateral triangles, ADB and ADC.
They are mutually equilateral, because AD is common,
BD = DCby construction, and AB=ACby supposition;
hence they are mutually equiangular, the equal angles
being opposite the equal sides, (Prop. 8). The angles B
and C, being opposite the common side AD, are there-
254 GEOMETRY
Cor. The arc of a great circle which joins the vertex
of an isosceles spherical triangle with the middle point of
the base, is perpendicular to the base, and bisects the ver-
tical angle of the triangle; and, conversely, the arc of a

255
great circle which bisects the vertical angle of an isosceles
spherical triangle, is perpendicular to, and bisects the
base.
- PROPOSITION XI.
Jf two angles of a spherical triangle are equal, the opposite
sides are also equal, and the triangle is isosceles.
In the spherical triangle, ABC, let the \_B = |_C; then
wih the sides, AB and AC, opposite these equal angles,
be equal.
For, let P be the pole of the base, BC,
and draw the arcs of great circles, PB,
PC; these arcs will be quadrants, and at
right angles to BC, (Cor. 2, Prop. 3).
Also, produce CA and BA to meet PB
and PC, in the points E and F. Now,
the angles, PBF and PCS, are equal,
because the first is equal to 90° less the
[_ABC, and the second is equal to 90°
less the equal [_ACB; hence, the A's,
PBF and PCE, are equal in all their parts,
since they have the [_P common, the \_PBF = \_PCE,
and the side PB equal to the side PC, (Cor., Prop. 9).
PE is therefore equal to PF, and [_PEC= \_PFB.
1 Taking the equals PF and PE, from the equals PO
and PB, we have the remainders, FC and EB, equal;
and, from 180°, taking the |_'s PFB and PEC, we have
the remaining l_'s, AFO and AEB, equal. Hence, the
A's, AFC and AEB, have two angles of the one equal to
two angles of the other, each to each, and the included
sides equal; the remaining sides and angles are therefore
equal, (Cor., Prop. 9). Therefore, AC is equal to BA,
and the A ABC is isosceles.
Cor. An equiangular spherical triangle is also equilat-
eral, and the converse.

Rihark.—In this demonstration, the pole of the base, EC, is sup-
posed to fall without the triangle, ABC. The same figure may be used
for the case in which the pole falls within the triangle; the modifi-
cation the demonstration then requires is so slight and nbvious, that
it would be superfluous to suggest it.
PROPOSITION XII.
The greater of two sides of a spherical triangle is opposite
the greater angle; and, conversely, the greater of two angle*
of a spherical triangle is opposite the greater side.
Let A BC be a spherical triangle, in which the angle A
is greater than the angle B; then is the side BC greater
than the side AC.
Through A draw the arc of a
great circle, AD, making, with AB,
the angle BAD equal to the angle
ABD. The triangle, DAB, is isos-
celes, and DA = DB, (Prop. 11).
In the a A CD, CD+AD>AC,
(Prop. 1.); or, substituting for AD its equal DB, we have,
CD + DB> AC.
If in the above inequality we now substitute CB for
CD+DB, it becomes CB > CA.
Conversely; if the side CB be greater than the side CA,
then is the \_A > the [_B. For, if the [_A is not greater
than the l_B, it is either equal to it, or less than it. The
\_A is not equal to the \_B; for if it were, the triangle
would be isosceles, and CB would be equal to CA, which
is contrary to the hypothesis. The \_A is not less than
the \_B; for if it were, the side CB would be less than the
side CA, by the first part of the proposition, which is also
contrary to the hypothesis; hence, the \_A must be greater
than the \_B.


PROPOSITION XIII.
Two symmetrical spherical triangles are equal in area
Let ABC and DEF be two A's on the same sphere,
having the sides and angles of the one equal to the sides
and angles of the other, each to
each, the triangles themselves
not admitting of superposition.
It is to be proved that these
A's have equal areas.
Let P be the pole of a small
circle passing through the three
points, ABC, and connect P
with each of the points, A, B,
and C, by arcs of great circles. Next, through E draw
the arc of a great circle, EP', making the angle DEF*
equal to the angle ABP. Take EP' = BP, and draw
the arcs of great circles, P'D, P'F.
The A's, ABP and DEP', are equal in all their parts,
because AB=DE, BP=EP', and the \_ABP=[_DEP',
(Prop. 9). Taking from the [_ABC the [_ABP, and
from the \_DEF the \_DEP', we have the remaining
angles, PBC and P'EF, equal; and therefore the A's,
BCP and EFP', are also equal in all their parts.
Now, since the a's, ABP and DEP', are isosceles, they
will coincide when applied, as will also the A's, BCP
and EFP', for the same reason. The polygonal areas,
ABCP and DEFP', are therefore equivalent. If from
the first we take the isosceles triangle, PA C, and from the
second the equal isosceles triangle, P'DF, the remainders,
or the triangles ABC and DEF, will be equivalent.
Remark. — It is assumed in this demonstration that the pole P falls
without the triangle. Were it to fall within, instead of without, no
other change in the above process would be required than to add the
isosceles triangles, PAC, P'BF, to the polygonal areas, to get thf
area* of the triangles, ABC, DEF.
Cor. Two spherical triangles on the same sphere, or on
equal spheres, will he equivalent — 1st, when they are
mutually equilateral; — 2d, when they are mutually equi-
angular ; — 3d, when two sides of the one are equal to
two sidee of the other, each to each, and the included
angles are equal; — 4th, when two angles of the one are
equal to two angles of the other, each to each, and the
included aides are equal.
PROPOSITION XIV.
Tf two arcs of great circles intersect each other on the sur-
face of a hemisphere, the sum of either two of the opposite tri-
angles thus formed will be equivalent to a lune whose angle i»
the corresponding angle formed by the arcs.
Let the great circle, AEBC, be the base of a hemi-
sphere, on the surface of which the great semi-circumfer-
ences, BDA and CDE, inter-
sect each other at D; then will
the sum of the opposite tri-
angles, BDC and DAE, he
equivalent to the lune whose
angle is BDC; and the sum
of the opposite triangles,
CDA and BDE, will be equiv-
alent to the lune whose angle
is CBA.
Produce the arcs, BDA and
CDE, until they intersect on the opposite hemisphere at E;
then, since CDE and DEH are both semi-circumferences
of a great circle, they are equal. Taking from each the
common part DE, we have CB =HE. In the same way
we prove BD = HA, and AE = BC. The two triangles,
BDC and EAE are therefore mutually equi literal, and
hence they are equivalent, (Prop. 13). But the two tri-
angles, EAE and ADE, together, make up the lune

25!)
DEB AD; hence the sum of the A's, BDC and ADE, is
equivalent to the same lune.
By the same course of reasoning, we prove that the
sum of the opposite A's, DAC and DBE, is equivalent
to the lune DCHAD, whose angle is ABC.

PROPOSITION XV.
The surface of a lune is to the whole surface of the sphere,
as the angle of the lune is to four right angles; or, as the are
which measures that angle is to the circumference of a great
circle.
Let ABFCA be a lune on the
surface of a sphere, and BCE
an arc of a great circle, whose
poles are A and F, the vertices
of the angles of the lune. The
arc, BC, will then measure the
angles of the lune. Take any
arc, as BD, that will be con-
tained an exact number of times
in BC, and in the whole circum-
ference, BCEB, and, beginning at B, divide the arc and
the circumference into parts equal to BD, and join the
points of division and the poles, by arcs of great circles.
We shall thus divide the whole surface of the sphere
into a number of equal lunes. Now, if the arc BC con-
tains the arc BD m times, and the whole circumference
contains this arc n times, the surface of the lune will
contain m of these partial lunes, and the surface of the
Bphcre will contain n of the same; and we shall have,
Surf, lune : surf, sphere :: m : n.
But, m : n :: BC : circumference great circle;
hence, surf, lune : surf, sphere :: BC: cir. great circle;
or, surf, lune : surf, sphere :: \_BOO: 4 right angles.
This demonstration assumes that BD is a common
measure of the arc, BC, and the whole circumference. It
may happen that no finite common measure can be
found; but our reasoning would remain the same, even
though this common measure were to become indefinitely
Bmall.
Hence the proposition.
Cor. 1. Any two lunes on the same sphere, or on equal
spheres, are to each other as their respective angles.
ScnoLiuM. — Spherical triangles, formed by joining the pole of an
arc of a great circle with the extremities of this arc by the arcs of
great circles, are isosceles, and contain two right angles. For this
reason they are called bi^rectangular. If the base is also a quadrant,
the vertex of either angle becomes the pole of the opposite side, and
each angle is measured by its opposite side. The three angles are then
right angles, and the triangle is for this reason called tri-rectangular.
It is evident that the surface of a sphere contains eight of its tri-
rectangular triangles.
Cor. 2. Taking the right angle as the unit of angles,
and denoting the angle of a lune by A, and the surface
of a tri-rectangular triangle by T, we have,
surf, of lune : 8T :: A : 4;
whence, surf, of lune = 2A x T.
Cor. 3. A spherical ungula bears the same relation to
the entire sphere, that the lune, which is the base of the
angula, bears to the surface of the sphere; and hence,
any two spherical ungulas in the same sphere, or in
equal spheres, are to each other as the angles of their re-
spective lunes.
PROPOSITION XVI.
The area of a spherical triangle is measured by the excess
of the sum of its angles over two right angles, multiplied by
the tri-rectangular triangle.
Let ABC he a spherical triangle, and DEFLK the cir-
cumference of the base of the hemisphere on which this
triangle is situated.

Produce the sides of the tri- >
angle until they meet this cir-
cumference in the points, D, E,
F, L, K, and P, thus forming
the sets of opposite triangles,
DAE, AKL; BEF, BPK; CFL,
CLP.
Now, the triangles of each of
these sets are together equal to
a lune, whose angle is the cor-
responding angle of the triangle, (Prop. 14); hence we
have,
A DAE + A AKL = 2 A x T, (Prop. 15, Cor. 2).
ABEF + ABPK = 2B x T.
A CFL + A CDP = 2C X T.
If the first members of these equations be added, it is
evident that their sum will exceed the surface of the
hemisphere by twice the triangle ABC; hence, adding
these equations member to member, and substituting for
the first member of the result its value, 47 + 2 A ABC,
we have
47 + 2aABC = 2A.T + 2B.T + 2C.T
or, 2T+ AABC = A.T + B.T + C.T
whence, AABC= A.T + B.T + C.T—2T.
That is, AABC = {A + B + C— 2) T.
But A + B + C— 2 is the excess of the sum of the
angles of the triangle over two right angles, and T de-
notes the area of a tri-rectangular triangle.
Hence the proposition; the area, tie.
PROPOSITION XVII.
The area of any spherical "polygon is measured by the excess
of the sum of all its angles over two right angles, taken as
many times, less two, as the polygon has sides, multiplied by
the tri-rectangular triangle.
Let ABCDE be a spherical poly- £
gon; then will it3 area be meas- b^*"— /
ured by the excess of the sum of /\ /
the angles, A, B, C, D, and E, over / \
two riarht angles taken a number / \
of times which is two less than _/, -~>E
the number of sides, multiplied by \ /
T, the tri-rectangular triangle. \. /
Through the vertex «>t* any of the p
angles, as E, and the vertices of
the opposite angles, pass arcs of great circles, thus divi-
ding the polygon into as many triangles, less two, as the
polygon has sides. The sum of the angles of the several
triangles will be equal to the sum of the angles of the
polygon.
Now, the area of each triangle is measured by the
excess of the sum of its angles over two right angles,
multiplied by the tri-rectangular triangle. Hence the
sum of the areas of all the triangles, or the area of the
polygon, is measured by the excess of the sum of all the
angles of the triangles over two right angles, taken as
many times as there are triangles, multiplied by the tri-
rectangular triangle. But there are as many trianglps as
the polygon has sides, less two.
Hence the proposition; the area of any spherical poly-
gon, etc.
Cor. If S denote the sum of the angles of any spherical
polygon, n the number of sides, and T the tri-rectan-
gular triangle, the right angle being the unit of angles;
the area of the polygon will be expressed by
[S— 2 (n — 2)] x T = (S— 2» + 4) T.
"As Familiar to the Schools of the United States as
Household Words."
Robinson's Progressive Course
MATHEMATICS,
ROBINSON'S PROGRESSIVE COURSE OF
MATHEMATICS, being the most complete and scientific course of
Mathematical Text-books published, is more extensively used in the Schools
and Educational Institutions of the United States than any competing series.
In its preparation two objects were kept constantly in view: First, to fur-
nish a full and complete Series of Text-Books, which should be sufficientto give
the pupil a thorough and practical business education; Second, to secure that
intellectual culture without which the mere acquisition of book knowledge is
almost worthless.
All the.improvements of the best modern Text-Books, as well as many new
and original methods, and practical operations not found in other similar works,
have been incorporated into these books, and no labor or expense has been
spared to give to the public a clear, scientific, comprehensive and complete
system, not incumbered with unnecessary theories, but combining and system-
atizing real improvements of a practical and useful kind.
Robinson s Shorter Course.
In order to meet a demand from many quarters for a Series of Arithmetics,
few in number and comprehensive in character, we have published the above
course, in TWO books, in which Oral and Written Arithmetic is combined.
These books have met with very great popularity, having been introduced into
several of the largest cities in the United States. They are unusually hand-
some in get-up, and are substantially bound in cloth.
*#* Descriptive Circulars and Price Lists will be forwarded to Teachers
and Educationists on application. The most liberal terms 'wilt be made for in-
troduction^ exchange and examination.
Ivison, Blakeman, Tatloe & Co.,
Publishers,
New York and Chicago.
Approved Text-Books
FOR
HIGH SCHOOLS.
TH ERE are no text-books that require in their preparation so much prac-
tical scholarship, combined with the teacher's experience, as those com-
piled for use in High Schools, Seminaries and Colleges. The treatment must
be succinct yet thorough ; accuracy of statement, clearness of expression, and
scientific gradation are indispensable. We have no special claims to make for
our list on the score of the Ancient Classics, but in the modern languages,
French, German and Spanish, in Botany, Geology, Chemistry and Astronomy,
and the Higher Mathematics, Moral and Mental Science, etc., etc., we chal-
lenge comparison with any competing books. Many of them are known to all
scholars, and are reprinted abroad, while others have enjoyed a National repu-
tation for many years.
WOODBURY'S GERMAN COURSE. Comprising a full series, from
"The Easy Lessons" to the most advanced manuals.
FASQUELLE'S FRENCH COURSE. On the plan of Woodbury's
Method ; also a complete series.
MIXER'S MANUAL OF FRENCH POETRY.
LANGUELLIER & MONSANTO'S FRENCH GRAMMAR.
HENNEQUIN'S FRENCH VERBS.
MONSANTO'S FRENCH STUDENT'S ASSIS7ANT.
MONSANTO <fc LANGUELLIER'S SPANISH GRAMMAR.
GRAY'S BOTANICAL SERIES
DANA'S WORKS ON GEOLOGY.
ELIOT db STORER'S CHEMISTRY.
ROBINSON'S HIGHER MATHEMATICS.
SWINTON'S OUTLINES OF HISTORY.
WILLSON'S OUTLINES OF HISTORY.
CATIICART'S LITERARY READER.
HICKOK'S WORKS ON METAPHYSICS.
HUNT'S LITERATURE OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
WELLS' WORKS ON NATURAL SCIENCE.
KERL'S COMPREHENSIVE ENGLISH GRAMMAR.
WEBSTER'S ACADEMIC DICTIONARY.
TOWNSEND'S CIVIL GOVERNMENT.
WHITE'S DEA WING.
TAYLOR-Kl'HNER'S GREEK GRAMMAR.
KIDDLE'S ASTRONOMY.
SWINTON'S COMPLETE GEOGRAPHY. Etc. ETe.
*** Descriptive Circulars and Price Lists will be sent to Teachers and Edu-
cationists on application. Liberal terms will be made for introduction, exchange
and examination.
IVISON, BLAKEMAN, TAYLOR & CO., Publishers,
NEW YORK and CHICAGO.
•".
1
ELEMENTS
OF
GEOMETRY,
PLANE AND SPHERICAL;
NUMEROUS PRACTICAL PROBLEMS.
BY
HORATIO N. ROBINSON, LL.D.,
AUTHOR OF A FULL COURSE OF MATHEMATICS.
REWRITTEN BY
I. F. QUINBY, A.M., LL.D.,
PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS AND NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER J
AUTHOR OF DIFFERENTIAL AND INTEGRAL CALCULUS.
IVISON, BLAKEMAN, TAYLOR & CO.
NEW YORK: CHICAGO:
Mathematical Series.
Graied to the wants of Primary, Intermediate, Grammar,
Normal, and High Schools, Academies, and Colleges.
Progressive Table Book.
Progressive Primary Arithmetic.
Progressive Intellectual Arithmetic,
liudlmcnts of Written Arithmetic.
JUXIOR-CLASS ARITHMETIC, Oral and Written. NEW.
Progressive Practical Arithmetic.
Key to Practical Arithmetic.
Progressive Higher Arithmetic.
Key to Higher Arithmetic.
Ken Elementary Algehra.
Key to Ken Elementary Algebra.
Ken University Algebra.
Key to Nen University Algebra.
Ken Geometry and Trigonometry. In one vol.
Geometry, Plane and Solid. In separate vol.
Trigonometry, Plane and Spherical. In separate voL
Ken Analytical Geometry and Conic Sections.
Ken Surveying and Navigation.
Ken Differential and Integral Calculus.
University Astronomy—Descriptive and Physical.
Key to Geometry and Trigonometry, Analytical Geometry and Conk
Sections, Surveying and Navigation.
Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by
DANIEL W. FISH, A.M.,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States tor the Eastern
District of New York.
PEEFAOE.
In the preparation of this work, the author's previous
treatise, Elements of Geometry, has formed the ground-
work of construction. But in adapting the work to the
present advanced state of Mathematical education in our
best Institutions, it was found necessary so to alter the
plan, and the arrangement of subjects, as to make this
essentially a new work. The demonstrations of proposi-
tions have undergone radical changes, many new proposi-
tions have been introduced, and the number of Practical
Problems greatly increased, so that the work is now believed
to be as full and complete as could be desired in an elemen-
tary treatise.
In view of the fact that the Seventh Book is so much
larger than the others, it may be asked why it is not divided
into two. We answer, that classifications and divisions
are based upon differences, and that the differences seized
upon for this purpose must be determined by the nature of
the properties and relations we wish to investigate. There
is such a close resemblance between the geometrical prop-
erties of the polyedrons and the round bodies, and the
demonstrations relating to the former require such slight
modifications to become applicable to the latter, that there
seems no sufficient reason for separating into two Books
that part of Geometry which treats of them.
Practical rules with applications will be found throughout
the work, and in addition to these, there is a full collection
of carefully selected Practical Problems. These are given
to exercise the powers and test the proficiency of the pupil,
and when he has mastered the most or all of them, it is
not likely that he will rest satisfied with present acquisi-
tion, but, conscious of augmented strength and certain of
reward, he will enter new fields of investigation.
The author has been aided, in the preparation of the
present work, by I. F. Quinby, A.M., of the University of
Eochester, N. Y., late Professor of Mathematics in the
United States Military Academy at West Point. The
thorough scholarship and long and successful experience
of this gentleman in the class-room, eminently qualify him
for such a task; and to him the public are indebted for
much that is valuable, both in the matter and arrangement
of this treatise.
October, 1860.
PLANE GEOMETRY.
DEFINITIONS.
Geometrical Magnitudes ... .........Pagi 9
Plane Angles ........... 10
Piano Figures of Three Sides - .- ........... 12
Plane Figures of Four Sidos ...................... 13
The Circle ........... 14
Units of Measuro ..........................—...--. 15
Explanation of Terms ........................... 16
Axioms. ..... .................... .^......... 17
Abbreviations .........................^............ 17
BOOK I.
CONTENTS.
BOOK II.
Proportion, and its Application to Geometrical Investigations.... 59
BOOK III.
Of the Circle, and the Investigation of Theorems dependent on its
Properties. 88
1* (Tl
BOOK IV.
Problems in the Construction of Figures in Piano Geomotry. ... Ill
BOOK V.
On the Proportionalities and Measurement of Polygons and Circles. 130
Practical Problems 142
BOOK VI.
On the Intersections of Planes, the Relative Positions of Planes,
and of Planes and Lines. 152
BOOK VII.
Solid Geometry 172
Practical Problems , 229
BOOK VIII.
Practical Geometry.— Application of Algebra to Geometry, and
also Propositions for Original Investigation 231
Miscellaneous Propositions in Plane Geometry 238
BOOK IX.
Spherical Geometry 243
Definitions 243
DEFINITIONS.
L Geometry is the science which treats of position, and
of the forms, measurements, mutual relations, and pro-
perties of limited portions of space.
Space extends without limit in all directions, and contains all
bodies.
2. A Point is mere position, and has no magnitude.
3. Extension is a term employed to denote that pro-
perty of bodies by virtue of which they occupy definite
portions of space. The dimensions of extension are
length, breadth, and thickness.
4. A Line is that which has extension in length only.
The extremities of a line are points.
5. A Eight or Straight Line is one all of whose parte
lie in the same direction.
6. A Curved Line is one whose consecutive parts, how-
ever small, do not lie in the same direction.
7. A Broken or Crooked Line is
composed of several straight lines,
joined one to another successively,
and extending in different directions.
When the word line is used, a straight line is to be understood,
unless otherwise expressed.
8. A Surface or Superficies is that which has extension
in length and breadth only.
9. A Plane Surface, or a Plane, is a surface such that
(9)
y
if any two of its points be joined by a straight line, every
point of this line will lie in the surface.
10. A Curved Surface is one which is neither a plane,
nor composed of plane surfaces.
11. A Plane Angle, or simply an Angle,
is the difference in the direction of two
lines proceeding from the same point.
The other angles treated of in geometry will he named and defined
in their proper connections.
12. A Volume, Solid, or Body, is that which has exten-
sion in length, breadth, and thickness.
These terms are used in a sense purely abstract, to denote mere
space—whether occupied by matter or not, being a question with
which geometry is not concerned.
Lines, Surfaces, Angles, and Volumes constitute the
different kinds of quantity called geometrical magnitudes.
13. Parallel Lines are lines which have ,
the same direction.
Hence parallel lines can never meet, however far they may be
produced; for two lines taking the same direction cannot approach
or recede from each other.
Two parallel lines cannot be drawn from the same point; for it
parallel, they must coincide and form one line.
PLANE ANGLES.
To make an angle apparent, the two
lines must meet in a point, as AB and
AC, which meet in the point A.
Angles are measured by degrees.
14. A Degree ia one of the three hundred and sixty
equal parts of the space about a point in a plane.
If, in the above figure, we suppose AC to coincide with AB,
there will be but one line, and no angle; but if AB retain its posi
tion, and A 0 begin to revolve about the point A, an angle will be
formed, and its magnitude will be expressed by that number of the
860 eqaal spaces about the point A, which is contained between
ABa.nl AC.
Angles are distinguished in respect to magnitude by
the terms Right, Acute, and Obtuse Angles.
15. A Eight Angle is that formed by one
line meeting another, so as to make equal
angles with that other.
'Ihe lines forming a right angle are perpendicular
t) :ach other.
16. An Acute Angle ia less than a right
angle.
17. An Obtuse Angle is greater than
a right angle.
Obtuse and acute angles are also called
oblique angles; and lines which are neither parallel nor perpen-
dicular to each other are called oblique lines.
18. The Vertex or Apex of an angle is the point in which
the including lines meet.
19. An angle is commonly designated by a letter at its
vertex; but when two or more angles have their vertices
at the same point, they cannot be
thus distinguished.
For example, when the three lines
AB, AG, and AD meet in the common
point A, we designate cither of the an-
gles formed, by three letters, placing
that at the vertex between those at the
opposite extremities of the including
lines. Thus, we say, the angle BAC,
eto B
20. Complements. — Two angles are said to be comple
ments of each other, when their sum is equal to one right
angle.
21. Supplements. — Two angles are said to be supple-
ments of each other, when their sum is equal to two nght
angles.

PLANE FIGURES.
22. A Plane Figure, in geometry, is a portion of a
plane bounded by straight or curved hDes, or by both
combined.
23. A Polygon is a plane figure bounded by straight
lines, called the sides of the polygon.
The least number of sides that can bound a polygon is
three, and by the figure thus bounded all other polygons
are analyzed.
*
FIGURES OF THREE SIDES.
24. A Triangle is a polygon having three sides and
three angles.
Tri is a Latin prefix signifying three; hence a Triangle is lito
rally a figure containing three angles. Triangles are denominated
from the relations both of their sides and angles.
25. A Scalene Triangle is one in
which no two sides are equal.
26. An Isosceles Triangle is one in
which two of the sides are equal.
27. An Equilateral Triangle is one in
ifhich the three sides are equal.
28. A Right-Angled Triangle is one
which has one of the angles a right
angle.
29. An Obtuse-Angled Triangle is one
Laving an obtuse angle.

30. An Acute-Angled Triangle is one
in which each angle is acute.
3L An Equiangular Triangle is one
having its three angles aqual.
Equiangular triangles are tlso equilateral, and vice versa.
FIGURES OF FOUR SIDES.
32. A Quadrilateral is a polygon having four sides and
four angles.
33. A Parallelogram is a quadrilateral
which has its opposite sides parallel. / /
Parallelograms are denominated from the rela- *•'
tions both of their sides and angles.
34. A Rectangle is a parallelogram hav-
ing its angles right angles.
35. A Square is an equilateral rectangle.
36. A Rhomboid is an oblique-angled parallelogram.
37. A Rhombus is an equilateral rhom-
»oid.
38. A Trapezium is a quadrilateral having
k> two sides parallel.

39. A Trapezoid is a quadrilateral in f
bich two opposite sir1— ""
I ie other two oblique.
which two opposite sides are parallel, and /
40. Polygons bounded by a greater number of sides
2

than four are denominated only by the number of sides.
A polygon of five sides is called a Pentagon; of six, a
Hexagon; of seven, a Heptagon; of eight, an Octagon;
of nine, a No7iagon, etc.
4L Diagonals of a polygon are lines
joining the vertices of angles not ad-
jacent.
42. The Perimeter of a polygon is its boundary consid-
ered as a whole.
43. The Base of a polygon is the side upon which the
polygon is supposed to stand.
44. The Altitude of a polygon is the perpendicular
distance between the base and a side or angle opposite
the base.
45. Equal Magnitudes are those which are not only
equal in all their parts, but which also, when applied the
one to the other, will coincide throughout their whole
extent.
46. Equivalent Magnitudes are those which, though they
do not admit of coincidence when applied the one to the
other, still have common measures, and are therefore
numerically equal.
47. Similar Figures have equal angles, and the same
number of sides.
Polygons may be similar without being equal; that is, the angles
and the number of sides may be equal, and the length of the sides
and the size of the figures unequal.
THE CIRCLE.
48. A Circle is a plane figure bound-
ed by one uniformly curved line, all of
the points in which are at the same
distance from a certain point within,
called the Center.
49. The Circumference of a circle is
the curved line that bounds it.

60. The Diameter of a circle is a line passing througn
its center, and terminating at both ends in the circum-
ference.
5L The Radius of a circle is a line extending from
its center to any point in the circumference. It is one
half of the diameter. All the diameters of a circle are
equal, as are also all the radii.
52. An Arc of a circle is any portion of the circum-
ference.
53. An angle having its vertex at the center of a
circle is measured by the arc intercepted by its sides.
Thus, the arc AB measures the angle A OB; and in gen-
eral, to compare different angles, we have but to compare
the arcs, included by their sides, of the equal circles
having their centers at the vertices of the angles.
UNITS OF MEASURE.
54. The Numerical Expression of a Magnitude is a numbei
expressing how many times it contains a magnitude of the
same kind, and of known value, assumed as a unit.
For lines, the measuring unit is any straight line of fixed
value, as an inch, a foot, a rod, etc.; and for surfaces, the
measuring unit is a square whose side may be any linear
unit, as an inch, a foot, a mile, etc. The linear unit
being arbitrary, the surface unit is equally so; and its
selection is determined by considerations of convenience
and propriety.
For example, the parallelogram ABD C is mea-
sured by the number of linear units in CD, mul-
tiplied by the number of linear units in A 0 or
BD) the product is the square units in ABDC.
For, conceive CD to be composed of any number
of equal parts—say five—and each part some unit of linear measure,
and AC composed of three such units; from each point of divi-
sion on CD draw lines parallel ia AC, and from each point of divi-
sion on A G draw lines parallel to CD or AB; then it is as obvious
as an axiom that the parallelogram trill contain 5x3 = 15 square
Units. Hence, to find the areas of right-angled parallelograms, mul-
tiply the base by the altitude.
EXPLANATION OP TERMS.
55. An Axiom is a self-evident truth, not only too sim-
ple to require, hut too simple to admit of, demonstration.
56. A Proposition is something which is either pro.
posed to be done, or to be demonstrated, and is either 8
problem or a theorem.
57. A Problem is something proposed to be done.
58. A Theorem is something proposed to be demon-
strated.
59. A Hypothesis is a supposition made with a view to
draw from it some consequence which establishes the
truth or falsehood of a proposition, or solves a problem.
60. A Lemma is something which is premised, or demon-
strated, in order to render what follows more easy.
61. A Corollary is a consequent truth derived imme-
diately from some preceding truth or demonstration.
62. A Scholium is a remark or observation made upon
something going before it.
63. A Postulate is a problem, the solution of which is
telf evident.
POSTULATES.
Let it be granted—
I. That a straight line can be drawn from any one point
to any other point;
II. That a straight line can be produced to any distance,
or terminated at any point;
HI. That the circumference of a circle can be de-
scribed about any center, at any distance from that center.
AXIOMS.
1. Things which are equal to the same thing are equal tt
each other.
2. When equals are added to equals the wholes are equal.
3. When equals are taken from equals the remainders are
tqual.
4. When equals are added to unequals the wholes are
unequal.'
5. When equals are taken from unequals the remainders
are unequal.
6. Things which are double of the same thing, or equal
things, are equal to each other.
7. Things which are halves of the same thing, or of equal
things, are equal to each other.
8. The whole is greater than any of its parts.
9. Every whole is equal to all its parts taken together.
10. Things which coincide, or fill the same space, are
identical, or mutually equal in all their parts.
11. All right angles are equal to one another.
12. A straight line is the shortest distance between two
points.
18. Two straight lines cannot inclose a space.
ABBREVIATIONS.
The common algebraic signs are used in this work,
and demonstrations are sometimes made through the
medium of equations; and it is so necessary that the
student in geometry should understand some of the more
simple operations of algebra, that we assume that he is
acquainted with the use of the signs. As the terms
circle, angle, triangle, hypothesis, axiom, theorem, cor-
ollary, and definition, are constantly occurring in a course
of geometry, we shall abbreviate them as shown in the
following list:
2* B
Addition is expressed by +
Subtraction " "...._
Multiplication" " .... X
Equality and Equivalency are expressed by . =
Greater than, is expressed by . . . . >
Less than,"" <
Tbus: B is greater than A, is written . B >A
B is less than A, "" . B<A
A circle is expressed by O
An angle"" L_
A right angle is expressed by . . . R. |_
Degrees, minutes, and seconds, are expressed
by "",
A triangle is expressed by .... A
The term Hypothesis is expressed by . . (Hy.)
"Axiom" ". (Ax.)
"Theorem"" (Th.)
"Corollary" ". (Cor.)
"Definition" ". . (Def.)
"Perpendicular is expressed by . _L
The difference of two quantities, when it is
not known which is the greater, is ex-
pressed by the symbol /v
Thus, the difference between A and B is written
A nj B.
BOOK I.
OF STRAIGHT LINES, ANGLES, AND POLYGONS.
THEOREM I.
When one straight line meets another, not at its extremity,
ihe two angles thus formed are two right angles, or they art
together equal to two right angles.
Let AB meet CD, and if AB is perpen- E (A
dicular to CD, it -does not incline to either
extremity of CD. In that case, the angle
ABD is equal to the angle ABC, and is c B D
a right angle, by Definition 15.
But if these angles are unequal, we are to show that
their sum is equal to two right angles. Conceive the
line BE to he drawn from the point B, so as not to incline
toward either extremity of CD; then, by Def. 15, the angles
CBE and EBD are right angles; but the angles CBA
and ABD make the same sum, or fill the same angular
space, as the two angles CBE and EBD, and are, con-
sequently, equal to two right angles. Hen<je the theorem;
when one straight line meets another, not at its extremity, the
sum of the two angles is equal to two right angles.
Cor. Hence, the two angles ABC and ABD are supple-
mentary to each other, (Def. 21).
THEOREM II.
From any point in a straight line, not at its extremity, the
sum of all the angles that can be formed on the same side of
the line is equal to two right angles.
Let CD be any line, and B any point w f
in it.
We are to show that the sum of all the
angles which can be formed at B, on one c~
si de of OB, will be equal to two right angles-

By Th. I, any two supplementary angles, as ABDS
ABC, are together equal to two right angles. And since
the angular space about the point B is neither increased
nor diminished by the number of lines drawn from that
point, the sum of all the angles DBA, ABE, EBII,
HBC, fills the same spaces as any two angles HBD,
B.BC. Hence the theorem; from any point in a line, the
turn of all the angles that can be formed on the same side of
the line is equal to two right angles.
Cor. 1. And, as the sum of all the angles that can be
formed on the other side of the line, CD, is also equal to
two right angles; therefore, all the angles that can be
formed quite round a point, B, by any number of lines, are
together equal to four right angles.
Cor. 2. Hence, also, the whole circum-
ference of a circle, being the sum of the
measures of all the angles that can be
made about the center F, (Def. 53), is the
measure of four right angles; conse-
quently, a semicircumference, is the mea-
sure of two right angles; and a quadrant, or 90°, is the
measure of one right angle.
THEOREM III.
If one straight line meets two other straight lines at a
common point, forming two angles, which together are equal
to two right angles the two straight lines are one and th*
lime line.
Let the line AB meet the
Hues BD and BE at the com-
mon point B, making the sum
of the two angles ABD, ABE,
equal to two right angles; we
are to prove that DB and BE
are one straight line.


If BB and BE are not in the same line, produce DB
to C, thus forming one line, DBQ.
Now by Th. 1, ABD + ABC must be equal to two
right angles. But by hypothesis, ABD + ABB is equal
to two right angles.
Therefore, ABD + ABC is equal to ABD + ABU,
(Ax. 1). From each of these equals take away the com-
mon angle ABD, and the angle ABC will be equal to
ABE, (Ax. 3). That is, the line BE must coincide with
BC, and they will be in fact one and the same line, and
they cannot be separated as is represented in the figure.
Hence the theorem; if one line meets two other lines at a
common point, forming two angles which together are equal
to two right angles, the two lines are one and the same line.
THEOREM IV.
i
If two straight lines intersect each other, the opposite or
vertical angles must be equal.
If AB and CD intersect each
other at E, we are to demonstrate
that the angle AEC is equal to
the vertical angle DEB; and the
angle AED, to the vertical angle
CEB.
As AB is one line met by DE, another line, the two
angles AED and DEB, on the same side of AB, are equal
to two right angles, (Th. 1). Also, because CD is a right
line, and AE meets it, the two angles AEC and A ED
are together equal to two right angles.
Therefore, AED + DEB = AEO + AED. (Ax. 1.)
If from these equals we take away the common angle
AED, the remaining angle DEB must be equal to the
remaining angle AEC, (Ax. 3). In like manner, we cau
prove that AED is equal to CEB. Hence the theorem;
if the two lines intersect each other, the verticil angle* nivit
be eciuai.

Second Demonstration.
ByDef. 11, the angle DEB is the difference in the
direction of the lines ED and EB; and the angle AEQ
is the difference in the direction of the lines EC and EA.
But ED is opposite in direction to EQ; and EB is
opposite in direction to EA.
Hence, the difference in the direction of ED and EB
is the 6ame as that of EG and EA, as is obvious by in-
spection.
Therefore, the angle DEB is equal to its opposite A EC
In like manner, we may prove AED = CEB.
Hence the theorem; if two lines intersect each other, the
vertical angles must be equal.
THEOREM V.
If a straight line intersects two parallel lines, the sum of
the two interior angles on the same side of the intersecting
line is equal to two right angles.
[Note. — By interior angles, we mean angles which lie between the
parallels; the exterior angles are those not between the parallels.]
Let the line EF intersect the
parallels AB and CD; then
we are to demonstrate that
the angles BGH + GHD =
2K.L_ _____
Because GB and HD are C ~/_ "~D
parallel, they are equally in- ^
clined to the line EF, or have
the same difference of direction from that line. There-
fore, \_FGB = L GHD. To each of these equals add
the \_BGH, and we have FGB +BGH=GHD +BQH.
But by Th. 1, the first member of this equation is equal
to two right angles; and the second member is the sum
of the two angles between the parallels. Hence the theo-
rem; if a line intersects two parallel lines, the sum of the two
interior angles on the same side of the intersecting line must
be equal to two right angles.

SctfouTi* —As AH and CD are parallel lines, and EF is a lin«
intersecting them, AH and EF must make angles equal to those made
by CD and EF. That is, the angles about the point 0 must be equal
to the corresponding angles about the point IT.
THEOREM VI.
If a line intersect! two parallel lines, the alternate interior
angles are equal.
Let AB and CD be paral-
lels, intersected by EF at E
and G. Then we are to prove
that the angle A GE is equal
to the alternate angle GEE,x
and CEG =» EGB.
By Th. 5, \_BGE + \_
GED = two right angles. Al-
so, by Th. 1, \_AGH+ \_BGE = two right angles.
From these equals take away the common angle BGH,
and L GEE will be left, equal to [_AGE, (Ax. 3). In
like manner, we can prove that the angle CHG is equal
to the angle HGB. Hence the theorem; if a line intersects
two parallel lines, the alternate interior angles are equal.
Cor. 1. Since \_AGE=[_FGB,
and [_AGE=\_GEE;
Therefore, |_ FGB = |_ GEE (Ax. 1).
Also, L A GF + |_ A GE = 2 E. [_, (Th. 1),
and L CHG + [_AGE = 2 E. |_, (Th. 5);
Therefore,
\_AGF + LAGE = |_CEG + [_AGE, (Ax. 1);
and [_AGF = [_ CHG, (Ax. 3).
That is, the exterior angle is equal to the interior opposit*
angle on the same side of the intersecting line.
Cor. 2. Sine* \_AGE = \__FGB,
and \_AGH = \__CHE;
Therefore, \_FGB =[_CEE.
In the same manner it may be shown that
\__AGF = \_EHD.
Hence, the alternate exterior angles are equal.
THEOREM VII.
If a line intersects two other lines, making the sum of tht
two interior angles on the same side of the intersecting lint
equal to two right angles, the two straight lines are parallel.
Let the line EF intersect
the lines AB and CD, making
the two angles BGH + GHD
= to two right angles; then
we are to demonstrate that
AB and CD are parallel. 6 /H b
As EF is a right line and •£
BG meets it, the two angles
FGB and BGH are together equal to two right angles,
(Th. 1). But by hypothesis, the angles, BGH and GHD,
are together equal to two right angles. From these two
equals take away the common angle BGH, and the re-
maining angles FGB and GHD must be equal, (Ax. 3).
Now, because GB and HD make equal angles with the
same line EF, they must extend in the same direction ; and
lines having the same direction are parallel, (Def. 13).
Hence the theorem; if a line intersects two other lines, making
the sum of the two interior angles on the same side of the in-
tersecting line equal to two right angles, the two lines must 00
parallel.
Cor. 1. If a line intersects two other lines, making the
alternate interior angles equal, the two lines intersected
must be parallel.
Suppose the [_ AGE - |_ GHD. Adding [_ HGB
to each, we have
\_AGH+ [_HGB = |_ GHD + [_HGB.
but the first member of this equation, that is, |_ A GH -\
|_ HGB, is equal to two right angles; hence the second
member is also equal to the same; and by the theorem,
the lines AB and CD are parallel.
Cor. 2. If a line intersects two other lines, making the
opposite exterior and interior angles equal, the two lines
intersected must be parallel.
Suppose the |_ FGB = |_ GHD. Adding the [_ EGB
to each, we have
L FGB + L HO-B = L GHD 4 RGB.
But the first member of this equation is equal to two
right angles; hence the second member is also equal to
two right angles; and by the theorem, the lines AB and
CD are parallel.
Cor. 3. If a line intersects two other lines, making the
alternate exterior angles equal, the lines must be parallel.
Suppose |_ B GF = ( % CHE, and |_ A &* = L DHE.
By Th. 4, |_ B GF = |_ 'A GE, and |_ CHE = [_ DEG.
And since [_BGF = [_CHE, [_AGH=[_DEG.
That is, the alternate interior angles are equal; and
hence (by Cor. 1) the two lines- are parallel.
THEOREM VIII.
Jf two angles have their sides parallel, the two angles will
be either equal or supplementary.
Let A C be parallel to BD, and AH
parallel to BF or to BG. Then we are
to prove that the angle DBF is equal
to the angle CAH, and that the angle
DBG is supplementary to the angle A.
The angle CAH is formed by the differ-
ence in the direction of AC and AH; and
the angle DBF is formed by the differ-
ence in the direction of BD and BF.
But A 0 and AH have the same direc-
tions as BD and BF, because they are respectively paral-
lel. Therefore, by Def. 11, |_ CAH= [_DBF. But the
line BG has the same direction as BF, and the angle
DBG is supplementary to DBF. Hence the theorem;
angles whose sides are parallel are either equal or supple-
mentary.


THEOREM IX.
The opposite angles of any parallelogram tre equal.
Let AEBG be a parallel-
ogram. Then we are to
prove that the angle GBE
is equal to its opposite angle
A.
Produce EB to D, and GB
to F; then, since BD is par-
allel to A G, and BF to AE, the angle DBF is equal to
the angle A, (Th. 8).
But the angles GBE and DBF, being vertical, are
equal, (Th. 4). Therefore, the opposite angles GBE and
A, of the parallelogram AEBG, are equal.
In like manner, we can prove the angle E equal to
the angle G. Hence the theorem; the opposite angles of
any parallelogram are equal.
THEOREM X.
The sum of the angles of any parallelogram is equal to
four right angles.
Let ABCD be a parallelo-
gram. We are to prove that v \
the sum of the angles A, B, C \ \
and D, is equal to four right V A
angles, or to 360°.
Because AD and BC are parallel lines, and AB inter-
sects them, the two interior angles A and B are together
equal to two right angles, (Th. 5). And because CD in-
tersects the same parallels, the two interior angles C and
D are also together equal to two right angles. By addi-
tion, we have the sum of the four interior angles of the
parallelogram ABOD, equal to four right angles. Hence
the theorem; the sum of the angles of any parallelogram it
toual tc four right angles.

THEOREM XI.
The sum of the three angles of any triangle is equal to two
right angles.
Let AB C be a triangle,
and through its vertex 0
draw a line parallel to the
base AB, and produce
the sides AC and BC.
Then the angles A and
a, being exterior and in-
terior opposite aDgles on
the same side of the line AC, are equal to each other.
For the same reason, |_ B = L b. The angles Cand c,
being vertical angles, are also equal, (Th. 4). Therefore,
the angles A, B, C are equal to the angles a, b, c respect-
ively. But the angles around the point C, on the upper
Bide of the parallel CD, are equal to two right angles,
(by Th. 2). Hence the theorem; the sum of the three
angles, etc.
Second Demonstration.
Let AEBG be a parallelogram.
Draw the diagonal GE; thus di-
viding the parallelogram into two
triangles, and the opposite angles
C and E each into two angles.
Because. GB and AE are parallel, the alternate interior
angles BGE and GEA are equal, (Th. 6). Designate
each of these by b.
In like manner, because EB and AG are parallel, the
alternate interior angles, BEG and EGA, are equal.
Designate each of these by a.
Now we are to prove .that the three angles B, b, and a,
and also that the three auglea A, a, and b, are equal to
two right angles
V


Because A and B are opposite angles of a parallelo-
gram, they are equal, (Th. 9), and \__A + \_B = 2 \_A.
And all the interior angles of the parallelogram are
«qual to four right angles, (Th. 10).
Therefore, 2A + 2a + 2b = 4 right angles.
Dividing by 2, and A + a+ 6 = 2"
That is, all the angles of the triangle AGE are togethei
e^ual to two right angles
Hence the theorem; the sum of the three angles, etc.
Scholium.—Any triangle, as AGE, may be conceived to be part of
a parallelogram. For, let AGE be drawn independently of the paral-
lelogram ; then draw EB from the point E parallel to AG, and through
the point G draw GB parallel to AE, and a parallelogram will be
formed embracing the triangle; and thus the sum of the three angles
of any triangle is proved equal to two right angles.
This truth is so fundamental, important, and practical,
as to require special attention; we therefore give a
Third Demonstration.
»
Let ABC be a triangle. Then
we are to show that the angles A,
C, and ABC, are together equal
fo two right angles.
Let AB be produced to Z>, and
from B draw BE parallel to A C.
Then, EBI) and CAB being exterior and interior op-
posite angles on the same side of the line AD, are equal,
(Th. 6, Cor. 1). Also, CBE and ACB, being alternate
angles, are equal, (Th. 6).
By addition, observing that |_ CBE, added to |_ EBD,
must make |_ CBD, we have
\_CBD = [_A + [_C. (10
To each of these equals add the angle CBA, and we
shall have
L CBA + L OBD = L^ + LC+L CB A.
But (by Th. 1), the sum of the first two is equal to two


right angles; therefore, the three angles, A, C, and CBA,
are together equal to two right angles.
Hence the theorem; the sum of the three angles, etc.
THEOREM XII.
If any side of a triangle is produced, the exterior tngle it
equal to the sum of the two interior opposite angles.
Let ABC be a triangle. Pro-
duce AB to D; and we are to
prove that the angle CBD is equal
to the sum of the two angles A
and C.
"We establish this theorem by a
course of reasoning in all respects the same as that by
which we obtained Eq. (1.), third demonstration, (Th. 11).
Cor. 1. Since the exterior angle of any triangle is equal
to the sum of the two interior opposite angles, therefore
it is greater than either one of them.
Cor. 2. If two angles in one triangle be equal to two
angles in another triangle, the third angles will also be
equal, each to each, (Ax. 3); that is, the two triangles
will be mutually equiangular.
Cor. 3. If one angle in a triangle be equal to one angle
in another, the sum of the remaining angles in the one
will also be equal to the sum of the remaining angles in
the other, (Ax. 3).
Cor. 4. If one angle of a triangle be a right angle, the
sum of the other two will be equal to a right angle,
and each of them singly will be acute, or less than a right
angle.
Cor. 5 The two smaller angles of every triangle are
acute, or each is less than a right angle.
Cor. 6. All the angles of a triangle may be acute, but
no triangl 3 can have more than one right or one obtuse
Bgle.
3*

THEOREM XIII.
In any polygon, the sum of all the interior angles is equal
to twice as many right angles, less four, as the figure has
sides.
Let ABODE be any polygon;
we are to prove that the sum of
all its interior angles, A+B + O
+ D + E, is equal to twice as
many right angles, less four, as
the figure has sides.
From any point, p, within the
figure, draw lines pA, pB, pC, etc., to all the angles,
thus dividing the jiolygon into as many triangles as it
has sides. Now, the sum of the three angles of each of
these triangles is equal to two right angles, (Th. 11); and
the sum of the angles of all the triangles must be equal
to twice as many right angles as the figure has sides. But
the sum of these angles contains the sum of four right
angles about the point p; taking these away, and the
remainder is the sum of the interior angles of the figure.
Therefore, the sum must be equal to twice as many right
angles, less four, as the figure has sides.
Hence the theorem ; in any polygon, etc.
From this Theorem is derived the rule for finding the
sum of the interior angles of any right-lined figure:
Subtract 2 from the number of sides, and multiply the re-
mainder by 2; the product ivill be the number of right.angles.
Thus, if the number of sides be represented by S, the
number of right angles will be represented by (2S— 4).
The Theorem is not varied in case
of a re-entrant angle, as repre-
sented at d, in the figure ABCdEF.
Draw lines from the angle d to
the aaveral opposite angles, making
as many triangles as the figure has
sides, less two, and the sum of the -A- V
three angles of each triangle equals two right angles.

31

—E
THEOREM XIY.
If the sides of one angle be respectively perpendicular
to the sides of a second angle, these two angles will be either
equal or supplementary.
Let BAD be the first angle, and
from any point within it, as C, draw
CB and CD, at right angles, the
first to AB, and the second to AD,
and produce CD in the direction
CE, thus forming at C the supple-
mentary angles BCE, BCD; then
will the angle BCE he equal to the angle A, and therefore
BCD, which is the supplement of BCE, will also bo the
supplement of the angle A.
For since ABCD is a quadrilateral, the sum of the four
interior angles is four right angles (Prop. 13), and because
the angles ABC and ADC are each right angles, the sum
of the angles BAD, BCD is two right angles. But the
sum of the adjacent angles BCE, BCD is also two right
angles. Hence, if in these last two sums we omit the com-
mon angle BCD, we have remaining the angle BCE, equal
to the angle BAD, and consequently the angle BCD which
is the supplement of the first of these equal angles is also
the supplement of the other.
Hence the Theorem.
Scholium.—If the vertex of the second angle bo without the first angle,
we would draw through any assumed point within tho first angle parallels to
the sides of tho second; the above demonstration will then apply to the first
angle, and tho anglo formed by the parallels.
THEOREM XV.
From any point icithout a straight line, but one perpen-
dicular can be drawn to that line.
From the point A let us suppose
it possible that two perpendiculars,
A B and A C, can be drawn. Now, be-
cause AB is a supposed perpendicu-
lar, the angle ABC is a right angle;
and because AC is a supposed per-
B C
pendicular, the angle A CB is also a right angle; and if
two angles of the triangle ABC are together equal to two
right angles, the third angle, BAC, must he infinitely
6mall, or zero; that is, the two perpendiculars heing drawn
through the common point A, and including no angle,
must necessarily coincide, and form one and the same per-
pendicular.
Hence the theorem; from any point without a straight
line, etc.
Cor. At a given point in a straight line but one per-
pendicular can he erected to that line; for, if there could
be two perpendiculars, we should have unequal righ
angles, which is impossible.
THEOREM XVI.
Two triangles which have two sides and the included angle
in the one, equal to two sides and the included angle in the
other, each to each, are equal in all respects.
In the two A's, ABC and DEF,
on the supposition that AB = DE,
AC=DF, and [_A = [_D, we
are to prove that B C must = EF,
the [_B=[_E, and the \_C =
[_F.
Conceive the a ABC cut out of the paper, taken up,
and placed on the A DEF in such a manner that the
point A shall fall on the point D, and the line AB on
the line DE; then the point B will fall on the point E>
because the lines are equal. Now, as the [_A = [_D,
the line ACmust take the same direction as DF, and.falH
on DF; and as A0 = DF, the point C will fall on F. B
being on E and C on F, BC must be exactly on EF,
(otherwise, two straight lines would enclose a space, Ax.
13), and BC= EF, and the two magnitudes exactly fiil
khe same space. Therefore, BC = EF, \_B = |__ E,
_C=\_F, and the two A's are equal, (Ax. 10).
Hence the theorem; two triangles which have two sides, etc.


33

THEOREM XVII.
When two triangles have a side and two adjacent angles in
iht one, equal to a side and two adjacent angles in the other,
each to each, the two triangles are equal in all respect*.
In two a's, as ABC and
DEF, on the supposition
that BC = EF,[_B = l_E,
Mid l_ C = |_ F, we are to
prove that AB = DE, AC
-=DF, andL-4 = \_D.
Conceive the A ABC taken up and placed on the A
DEF, so that the side BC shall exactly coincide with its
equal side EF; now, hecause the angle B is equal to the
angle E, the line BA will take the direction of ED, and
will fall exactly upon ;t; and because the angle C is equal
to the angle F, the line CA will take the direction of
FD, and fall exactly upon it; and the two lines BA and
CA, exactly coinciding with the two lines ED and FD,
the point A will fall on D, and the two magnitudes will
exactly fill the same space; therefore, by Ax. 10, they are
equal, and AB = DE, AC' = DF, and the [_A = \_D.
Hence the theorem; when two triangles have a side and
two adjacent angles in the one, equal to, etc.
THEOREM XVIII.
If two sides of a triangle are equal, the angles opposite tu
these sides are also equal.
Let ABO be a triangle; and on
tha supposition that AC = BC, we
are to prove that the |_ J.=the [_B.
Conceive the angle C divided into
two equal angles by the line CD;
then we have two A's, ADC and
BDC, which have the two sides, AC
and CD of the one, equal to the two
sides, CB and CD of the other; and

the included angle ACD, of the one, equa. to the in-
cluded angle BCD of the other: therefore, (Th.16),-423
= BD, and the angle A, opposite to CD of the one tri-
angle, is equal to the angle B, opposite to CD of the
other triangle; that is, |_ A = |_ B.
Hence the theorem; if two sides of a triangle are equal,
the angles, etc.
Cor. 1. Conversely: if two angles of a triangle are equal,
tfa sides opposite to them are equal, and the triangle it
i»osceles.
For, if AC is not equal to BC, suppose BC to be tne
greater, and make BE = AE; then will A AEB be isos-
celes, and \_EAB = \_EBA; hence \_EAB = [_ CAB,
or a part is equal to the whole, which is absurd; therefore,
CB cannot be greater than AC, that is, neither of the
sides AC, BC, can be greater than the other, and conse-
quently they are equal.
Cor. 2. As the two triangles, ACD and BCD, are in all
respects equal, the line which bisects the angle included
between the equal sides of an isosceles A also bisects the
base, and is perpendicular to the base.
Scholium 1.—If in the perpendicular DC, any other point than G
be taken, and lines he drawn to the extremities A and B, such lines
will be equal, as is evident from Th. 16; hence, we may announce
»His truth: Any point in a perpendicular drawn from the middle of a
line, is at equal distances from the two extremities of the line.
Scholium 2. — Since two points determine the position of a line, it
follows, that a line which joins two pointi each equally distant from the
txtremities of a given line, is perpendicular to this line at its middk
point.
THEOREM XIX.
The greater side of every trianjle has the greater angle
opposite to it.
Let ABC be a A; and on the supposition that A C w
greater than AB, we are to prove that the angle ABC is
85

greater than the |_ 0. From AC, the
greater of the two sides, take AD, equal
to the less side AB, and draw BD, thus
making two triangles of the original tri-
angle. As AB = AD, the |_ ADB =
the \_ ABD, (Th. 18).
But the |_ ADB is the exterior angle
of the A BDC, and is therefore greater
than C, (Th. 12, Cor. 1); that is, the
[_ ABD is greater than the |_ C Much more, then, L
the angle ABC greater than the angle C.
Hence the theorem; the greater side of every triangle, etc.
Cor. Conversely: the greater angle of any triangle has
the greater side opposite to it.
In the triangle ABC, let the angle B be greater than
the angle A; then is the side AC greater than the side
BC.
For, if BC = AC, the angle A must be equal to the
angle B, (Th. 18), which is contrary to the hypothesis;
and if BC~>AC, the angle A must be greater than the
angle B, by what is above proved, which is also contrary
to the hypothesis; hence BC can be neither equal to, nor
greater, than AC; it is therefore les3 than AC.
THEOREM XX.
The difference between any two sides of a triangle is leu
than the third side.
Let ABChe a A, in which ACis greater
tnan AB; then we are to prove that A C
—AB io less than BC.
On AC, the greater of the two sides,
tay off AD equal to AB.
Now, as a straight line is the shortest
distance between two points, we have
AB + BCyAC. (1)

From these unequals suotract the equals AB = AD,
and we have B.C>AC— AB. (Ax. 5).
Hence the theorem; the difference between any two sides
of a triangle, etc.

THEOREM XXI.
ff two triangles have the three sides cf the one equal U
the three sides of the other, each to each, the two triangles art
equil, and the equal angles are opposite the equal sides.
In two triangles, as ABC and ABD, on the supposition
that the side AB of the one = the side A B of the other,
AC=AD, and BC=BD, we are to demonstrate that
[_ACB = \_ADB, [_BAC =
[_BAJD, and [_ABC = [_ABD.
Conceive the two triangles to
be joined together by their long-
est equal sides, and draw the
line CD.
Then, in the triangle A CD,
because AC is equal to AD,
the angle ACD is equal to the angle ADC, (Th. 18). In
like manner, in the triangle BCD, because BC is equal
to BD, the angle BCD is equal to the angle BDC. Now,
the angle ACD being equal to the angle ADC, and the
angle BCD to the angle BDC, [_ACD + [_BCD = [__
ADC + [_BDC, (Ax. 2); that is, the whole angle ACB ia
equal to the whole angle ADB.
Since the two sides A C and CB are equal to the two sidcf
AD and DB, each to each, and their included angles A CB,
ADB, are alsj equal, the two triangles ABC, ABD, are
equal, (Th. 16), and have their other angles equal; that
is, \_BAC=[ BAD, and [_ABC= \_ABD.
Hence tht theorem; if two triangles have the three side*
of the one. etc.
37

THEOREM XXII.
If two triangles have two side* of the one equal to ttct
tides of the other, each to each, and the included angles ws\
equal, the third sides will be unequal, and the greater thirS
tide will belong to the triangle which has the greater included
ingle.
In the two A's, ABC and
AOD, let AB and AC of the
one A be equal to AD and A C
of the other A, and the angle
BAC greater than the angle
DAC; we are to prove that
the Bide BC is greater than the
side CD.
Conceive the two a's joined together by their shorter
equal sides, and draw the lice BD. Now, as AB = AD,
ABD is an isosceles A. From the vertex A, draw a line
bisecting the angle BAD. This line must be perpendic-
ular to the base BD, (Th. 18, Cor. 2). Since the [_BA0
is greater than the [_DAC, this line must meet BC, and
will not meet CD. From the point E, where the per-
pendicular meets BC, draw ED.
Now BE = DE, (Th. 18, Scholium 1).
Add EC to each; then BC= DE + EG.
But DB + EC is greater than DC.
Therefore BC> DO.
Hence the theorem; if two triangles have two sides of
one equal to two sides of the other, etc.
Cor. Any point out of the perpendicular drawn from
the middle point of a 'ine, is unequally distant from the
extremities :>f the line.
4
THEOREM XXIII.

A perpendicular is the shortest line that can be drawn
from any point to a straight line; and if other lines be
drawn from the same point to the same straight line, that
which meets it farthest from the perpendicular will be
longest; and lines at equal distances from the perpendicuA
lar, on opposite sides, are equal.
Let A be any point without the
line DE; let AB he the perpen-
dicular; and AC, AD, and AE
oblique lines; then, if BC is less
than BD, and BC=BE, we are to
show,
1st. That AB is less than AC.
2d. That A C is less than AD. 3d. That A C=AE
1st. In the triangle ABC, as AB is perpendicular to
BC, the angle ABC is a right angle; and, therefore (by
Theorem 12, Cor. 4); the angle BCA is less than a right
angle; and, as the greater side is always opposite the
greater angle, AB is less than AC; and AC may be
any line not identical with AB; therefore a perpen-
dicular is the shortest line that can be drawn from A
to the line DE.
2d. As the two angles, ACB and ACD, are together
equal to two right angles, (Th. 1), and ACB is less than
a light angle, ACD must he greater than a right angle;
consequently, the L_ D is less than a right angle; and, in
the A ACD, AD is greater than AC, or AC is less than
AD, (Th. 19, Cor.).
3d. In the a's ABC and ABE, AB is common, CB=
BE, and the angles at B are right angles; therefore, A C=
AE, (Th. 16).
Hence the theorem; aperpendicidar is the shortest line,
etc.
Cor. Conversely; if two equal oblique lines be drawn

from the same point to a given straight line, they will
meet the line at equal distances from the foot of the per-
pendicular drawn from that point to the given line.
THEOREM XXIV.
The opposite sides, and also the opposite angles of any par-
Melogram, are equal.
Let ABCD be a parallelogram.
Then we are to shyow that AB = DC,
AD = BO, [_A = [_C, and \_ADO
r=\_ABC.
Draw a diagona1, as BD; now, be-
cause AB and DC are parallel, the al-
ternate angles ABD and BDC are equal, (Th. 6). Foi
the same reason, as AD and BU are parallel, the angles
ADB and DBC are equal. Now, in the two triangles
ABD and BCD, the side BD is common,
the [_ADB = \_DBC (1)
and \_BDC = [_ABD (2)
Therefore, the angle A = the angle C, and the two tri-
angles are equal in all respects, (Th. 17); that is, the
sides opposite the equal angles are equal; or, AB = DC,
and AD = BC. By adding equations (1) and (2), we have
the angle ADC= the angle ABC, (Ax. 2).
Hence the theorem; the opposite sides, and the opposite
angles, etc.
Oor. 1. As the sum of all the angles of a parallelogram
13 equal to four right angles, and the angle A is always
equal to the opposite angle C; therefore, if A is a right
angle, C is also a right angle, and the figure is a rect-
angle.
Cor. 2. As the angle ABC, added to the angle A, gives
the same sum as the angles of the A ADB; therefore,
the two adjacent angles of a parallelogram are togeti.er
equal to two right angles.

THEOREM XXV.
If the opposite sides of a quadrilateral are equal, they art
also parallel, and the figure is a parallelogram.
Let A BCD be any quadrilateral;
on the supposition that AD = BC, and
AB = DC. we are to prove that AD is
parallel to BC, and AB parallel to DC.
Draw the diagonal BD\ we now
have two triangles, ABD and BCD,
which have the side BD common, AD of the one = B0
of the other, and AB of the one = CD of the other;
therefore the two A's are equal, (Th. 21), and the
angles opposite the equal sides are equal; that is, the
angle ADB = the angle OBD; but these are alternate
angles; hence, AD is parallel to BC, (Th. 7, Cor. 1);
and because the angle ABD = the angle BDC, AB is
parallel to CD, and the figure is a parallelogram.
Hence the theorem; if the opposite sides of a quadri-
lateral, etc.
Cor. This theorem, and also Th. 24, proves that the
two A's which make up the parallelogram are equal;
and the same would be true if we drew the diagonal
from A to C; therefore, the diagonal of any parallelogram
bisects the parallelogram.
THEOREM XXVI.
The lines which join the corresponding extremities of two
eqvnl and varallel straight lines, are themselves equal and
parallel; and the figure thus formed is a parallelogram.
On the supposition that AB is
squal and parallel to DC, we are to
prove that AD is equal and parallel
to BC; and that the figure is a par-
allelogram.
Draw the diagonal BD; now, since

AB au'd DC are parallel, and BD joins them, the alter-
nate angles ABD and BDC are equal; and since the
side AB = the side DC, and the side BD i? common to
the two A's ABD and CDB, therefore the two triangles
are equal, (Th. 16); that is, AD — BC, the angle A = O,
and the |_ AZXB = the \__DBC; also AB is parallel to
BOi and the figure is a parallelogram.
Hence the theorem; the lines which join the corresponding
•extremities, etc.
THEOREM XXVII.
Parallelograms on the same base, and between the same
parallels, are equivalent, or equal in respect to area or sur-
face.
Let ABEO and ABDF be two
parallelograms on the same base
AB, and between the sam^ paral-
lels AB and CD; we are to prove
that these two parallelograms are
equal.
Now, CE and FD are equal, be-
cause they are each equal to AB, (Th. 24); and, if from
the whole line CD we take, in succession, CB and FD,
there will remain ED = CF, (Ax. 3); but BE = AC, and
AF= BD, (Th. 24); hence we have two A's, CAF and
EBD, which have the three sides of the one equal to the
three sides of the other, each to each; therefore, the tvro
A's are equal, (Th. 21). If, from the whole figure
ABDC, we take away the A CAF, the parallelogram
ABDF will remain; and if from the whole figure we take
away the other A EBD, the parallelogram ABEC will
remain. Therefore, (Ax. 3), the parallelogram ABDF =
the parallelogram ABEC.
Hence the theorem; Parallelograms on the same base, etc.

4*
c
E
V
F 11
1
THEOREM XXVIII.
Triangles on the same base and between the same parallel*
are equivalent.
Let the two a'b ABE and ABF
have the same base AB, and be be-
tween the same parallels AB and
EF; then we are to prove that they
are equal in surface.
From B draw the line BD, par- A B
allel to AF; and from A draw the line AC, parallel to
BE; and produce EF, if necessary, to C and D; now the
parallelogram ABDF= the parallelogram ABEC, (Th.
27). But the A ABE is one half the parallelogram
ABEC, and the A ABF is one half the parallelogram
ABDF; and halves of equals are equal, (Ax. 7); there-
fore the A ABE = the A ABF.
Hence the theorem; triangles on the same base, etc.
THEOREM XXIX.
Parallelograms on equal bases, and between the same par
allils, are equal in area.
Let ABCI) and EFGH, be two
parallelograms on equal bases, AB
and EF, and between the same
parallels, AF and DG; then we are
to prove that they are equal in area.
AB = EF' = HG; but lines which join equal and
parallel lines, are themselves equal and parallel, (Th. 26);
therefore, if AH &n& BG be drawn, the figure ABGH is
a parallelogram = to the parallelogram ABCD, (Th. 27);
and if we turn the whole figure over, the two parallelo-
grams, GHEF and GHAB, will stand on the same base,
GH, and between the same parallels; therefore, GHEJt?
= GHAB, and consequently ABCD = EFGH, (Ax. 1).
Hence the theorem; Parallelograms on equal bases, eta.


Cor. Triangles on equal bases, and between the same
parallels, are equal in area. For, draw BD and EG; the
A ABtifia one half of the parallelogram AC, and the
A EMGr is one half of the equivalent parallelogram FH;
therefore, the A ABD = the A EFG, (Ax. 7).
THEOREM XXX.
Jf a triangle and a parallelogram are upon the same or equa.
bases, and between the same parallels, the triangle is equiva-
lent to one half the parallelogram.
Let ABC be a A, and ABDE a
parallelogram, on the same base AB,
and between the same parallels; then
we are to prove that the a ABC is
equivalent to one half of the parallel-
ogram ABDE.
Draw EB the diagonal of the parallelogram; now,
because the two A's ABC and ABE are on the same
base, and between the same parallels, they are equiva-
lent, (Th. 28); but the A ABE is one half the parallel-
ogram ABDE, (Th. 25, Cor.); therefore the A ABC is
equivalent to one half of the same parallelogram, (Ax. 7).
Hence the theorem; if a triangle and a parallelogram,
etc
THEOREM XXXI.
The complementary parallelograms described about any
point in the diagonal of any parallelogram, are equivalerdb to
each other.
Let ICbea parallelogram, and
BD its diagonal; take any point,
as E, in the diagonal, and through
thi3 point draw lines parallel to the
sides of the parallelogram, thus
forming four parallelograms.
We are now to prove that the complementary paral-
lelograms, A Fj and EC, are equivalent.

By (Tli. 25, Cor.) we learn that the A ABD = A DBC.
Also by the same Cor., A a = A b, and A c = a d; there-
fore by addition
Aa+Ac=AJ + A<£.
Now, from the whole A ABD take A a + A c, ind
from the whole A DBC take the equal sum, A b + A i,
and the remaining parallelograms AE and EC are equir
alent, (Ax. 3).
ITence the theorem; the complementary parallelogram^
etc.
THEOREM XXXII.
The perimeter of a rectangle is less than that of any rhom-
boid standing on the same base, and included between the same
parallels.
Let A BCD be a rect-
angle, and ABEF a rhom-
boid having the same base,
and their opposite sides
in the same line parallel
to the base.
We are now to prove that the perimeter ABCDA is less
than ABEFA.
Because AD is a perpendicular from A to the line DE_
and AF an oblique line, AD is less than AF, (Th. 23).
For the same reason .BC is less than BE; hence AD +
BC<AF+ BE. Adding the sum, AB + DC, to the firr.l
member of this inequality, and ito eqnal AB 4 FE to
the second member, we-have AB + BC -f CD + DA, di
the perimeter of the rectangle, less thau AB 4 BE -f
EF + FA, or the perimeter of the rhomV>;d. Hen je
the theorem; the perimeter of a rectangle, etc.


Thus far, areas have been considered only relatively
and in the abstract. We will now explain how we may
pass to the absolute measures, or, more properly, to the
numerical expressions for areas.
THEOREM XXXIII.
The area of any plane triangle is measured by the pro*
duct of its base by one half its altitude; or by one half of
(he product of its base by its altitude.
Let ABC represent any triangle, AB
its base, and AD, at right angles to AB,
its altitude; now we are to show that the
area of ABC is equal to the product of
AB by one half of AD; or one half of
AB by AD; or one half of the product of AB by AD.
On AB construct the rectangle ABED; and the area
of this rectangle is measured by AB into AD (Def.
54); but the area of the A ABC is equivalent to one
half this rectangle, (Th. 30). Therefore, the area of the
A is measured by \ AB x AD, or one half the product
of its base by its altitude. Hence the theorem; the area
of any plane triangle, etc.
THEOREM XXXIV.
The area of a trapezoid is measured by one half the sum
of its parallel sides multiplied by the perpendicular distance
betwe&n them.
l,etABDO represent any trape-
eoi 1, draw the diagonal BO, divid-
ing it into two triangles, ABC and
BCD: OD is the base of one tri-
angle, and AB may be considered
as the base of the other; and EF is the common altitude
of the two triangles.
Now, by Th. 33, the area of the triangle BCD = J CB
v EF; and the area of the A ABC= \AB x EF; bul

GEOMETRY.
L K
II
a b
by addition, the area of the two A's, or of the trape-
zoid, is equal to £ (AB+CD)xEF. Hence the theorem;
the area of a trapezoid, etc.
THEOREM XXXV.
If one of two lines is divided into any number of parts, the
rectangle contained by the two lines is equal to the sum of the
several rectangles contained by the undivided line and the seve-
ral parts of the divided line.
Let AB and AD be two lines,
and suppose AB divided into any
number of parts at the points E,
F, G, etc.; then the whole rect-
angle contained by the two lines
is AH, which is measured by AB
into AD. But the rectangle AL is measured by AB
into AD; the rectangle EK is measured by EF into EL,
which is equal to EF into AD; and so of all the other
partial rectangles; and the truth of the proposition is as
obvious as that a whole is equal to the sum of all its
parts. Hence the theorem; if one of two lines is divided,
etc. .
THEOREM XXXVI.
Jf a straight line is divided into any two parts, the square
described on the whole line is equivalent to the sum of tht
squares described on the two parts plus twice the rectangle con-
tained by the parts.
Lot AB be any line divided into
any two parts at the point C; now we
are to prove that the square on AB
is equivalent to the sum of the
squares on .4.(7 and CB plus twice the
rectangle contained by AC and CB.
On AB describe the square AD.
Through the point C draw CM, par-

allel to BD; take BE = BC, and through E draw EKN,
parallel to AB. "We now have CS, the square on CB, by
direct construction.
As AB = BD, and CB = BH, by subtraction, AB —
CB = BD — BH; otAC= ED. But JVJT = .Atf, being
opposite sides of a parallelogram; and for the same rea-
son, KM= BD. Therefore, (Ax. 1), NK= KM, and the
figure NM'\& a square on NK, equal to a square on AG,
But the whole square on AB is composed of the two
squares CH, NM, and the two complements or rectangles
AK and KD ; and since each of these latter is AC in
length, and BO in width, each has for its measure AO into
CB; therefore the whole square on AB is equivalent to
ACi + BC* + 2ACx OB.
Hence the theorem; if a straight line is divided into any
two parts, etc.
This theorem may be proved algebraically, thus:
Let w represent any whole right line divided into any
two parts a and b; then we shall have the equation
w = a + b
By squaring, w* = a' + b* + 2ab.
Cor. J£ a=b, then w'=Aa'; that is, the square de-
scribed on any line is four times the square described on
one half of it.
THJOREM XXXVII.
The square described on the difference of two lines is equiv-
alent to the sum of the squares described on the two lines di-
minished by twice the rectangle contained by the lines.
Let AB represent the greater of two lines, CB the
less line, and A C their difference.
We are now to prove that the square described on AG
vs equivalent to the sum of the squares on AB and BC
diminished by twice the rectangle contained by AB
and BC.
Conceive the square AF to be described on AB, and
L E
the square BL on CB; on A O describe ,
the square ACGM, and produce MG
to K. «
As aC=AC, and CL = CB, by
addition, (GC + CL), or CrZ, is equal
to AC + CB, or AB. Therefore, the
rectangle GE is AB in length, and'
OB in width, and is measured by AB
X BC.
Also Aff = J.5, and AM = J. (7; by subtraction, .JfU
48 GEOMETRY.
length, and CB in width, and is measured by AB X BC;
and the two rectangles GE and J?"if are together equiva-
lent to 2 A B x .gtf.
Now, the squares on AB and .BCmake the whole figure
AffFELC; and from this whole figure, or these two
Bquares, take away the two rectangles JJ^Tand GE, and
the square on A C only will remain; that is,
AC2 = AB' + B0' — 2AB x BC.
Hence the theorem; the square described on the differ
ence of two lines, etc.
This theorem may be proved algebraically, thus:
Let a represent the greater of two lines, b the less, and
d their difference; then we must have this equation:
d = a —b
By squaring, d* = a' + b2 — 2ab.
a a'
Oor. If d = b, then d = h- , and d' = -j; that is, the
square described on one half of any line is equivalent
to one fourth of the square described on the whole line.
THEOREM XXXVIII.
The difference of the squares described on any two lines i»
equivalent to the rectangle contained by the sum and difference
of the lines.
Let A B be the greater of two lines, and A C the less,
and on these lines describe the squares AD, AM; then, the

difference of the squares on AB and AC is the two rect-
angles EF and FC. We are now to
show that the measure of these rect-
angles may he expressed by {AB + AC)
x {AB — AC).
The length of the rectangle EF is ED,
or its equal ^41?; and the length of the a C~b
rectangle FC is'MC, or its equal AC;
therefore, the length of the two together (if we con
ceive them put between the same parallel lines) will be
AB + AC; and the common width is CB, which is equal
to AB—AC; therefore, AB — AC2 = {AB+AC)x {AB
—AC).
Hence the theorem; the difference of the squares de-
scribed on any two lines, etc.
This theorem may be proved algebraically: thus,
Let a represent one line, and b another;
Then a + b is their sum, and a — b their difference;
and "{a + b) X {a — b) = at—b'.
THEOREM XXXIX.
'The square described on the hypotenuse of any right-angled
triangle is equivalent to the sum of the squares described *n
the other two sides.
Let ABC represent any right-angled triangle, the right
angle at B; we are to prove that the square on AC is
equivalent to the sum of two squares; one on AB, the
other on BC.
On the three sides of the triangle describe the three
squares, AD, AI. and BM. Through the point B, draw
BNE perpendicular to AC, and produce it to meet tho
line GI'm K; also produce AF to meet GI in H, and
ML to meet GI produced in K.
Remark. — That tho lines, G/and ML, produced, meet at the poin
K, may he readily shown. As the proof of this fact is not necessary for
thfc demonstration, it is left as an exercise for the learner.
5 D
GEOMETRY.

The angle BAG is a right angle, and the angle NAR
is also a right angle; if
from these equals we
subtract the common
angle BAH, the re-
maining angle, BAC,
must be equal to the re-
maining angle GAH.
The angle G is a right
angle, equal to the
angle ABC; and AB
= AG; therefore, the
two A's ABC and
AGS are equal, and
AH=AC. ButiC =
AF; therefore, AH—
AF. Now, the two
parallelograms, AE and AHKB are equivalent, because
they are upon equal bases, and between the same paral-
lels, FH and EK, (Th. 29).
But the square AI, and the parallelogram AHKB, aio
equivalent, because they are on the same base, AB, and
between the same parallels, AB and GK; therefore, the
square AI, and the parallelogram AE, being each equiv-
alent to the same parallelogram AHKB, are equivalent
to each other, (Ax. 1). In the same manner we may
prove that the square BM is equivalent to the rectangle
ND; therefore, by addition, the two squares, AI and
BM, are equivalent to the two parallelograms, AE and
ND, or to the square AD.
Hence the theorem; the square described on the hypot*
nuse of a right-angled triangle, etc.
Cor. If two right-angled triangles have the hypotenuse, and
a side of the cne equal to the hypotenuse and a side of the
other, each to each, the two triangles are equal.
Lot ABCard AGH he the two A's, in which we sap-
pose AC = AH, and BC = GH; then will AG = AB
For, we have AC* = A£2 + BC',
or, by transposing, AC* — BC* = -45,
and Zzr^gg'+gg',
or, by transposing, AH*— GH* = AG'.
But by the hypothesis AC* —~BC* = AH* — GH";
hence, AB" = AG*, or, AB = AG.
Soholiux.—Ths two sides, ABanA BC, may vary, while -4 C remain*
ftenstant. AB may be equal to BC; then the point JVwill be in th«
middle of AC. When AB is very near the length of AC, and .flCvery
small, then the point iVfalls very near to C. Now as AE and ND are
right-angled parallelograms, their areas are measured by the product
of their bases by their altitudes; and it is evident that, as they have the
same altitude, these areas will vary directly as their bases AN and
NC; hence the squares on AB and BC, which are equivalent to those
rectangles, vary as the lines AN and NC.
The following outline of the demonstration of this pro-
position is presented as a useful disciplinary exercise for
the student.
We employ the same figure, in which no change is
made except to draw through C the line CP, parallel to BK.
The first step is to prove the equality of the triangles
AGH and ABC, whence AH = AC. But AC = AF;
therefore AH= AF.
The parallelograms AFEN and AHKB are equiva
lent. Also, the parallelogram AHKB = the square ABIG,
(Th. 27), and the parallelogram KBCP=JSrUDC=sqxi&re
BCML. Now, by adding the equals
AFEN= ABIG
NEDC = BCML
we obtain AFDC = ABIG + BCML.
That is, the square on A C is equivalent to the sum of
the squares on AB and BC.
The great practical importance of this theorem, in the
extent and variety of its applications, and the frequency
of its use in establishing subsequent propositions, ren-
ders it necessary that the student should master it com-
pletely. To secure this end, we present a
GEOMETRY.

Second Demonstration,
Let ABC be a triangle
right-angled at B. On the
hypotenuse AC, describe the
square A CUD. From D and
E let fall the perpendiculars
VI and Ed, on AB and AB
produced. Draw Dn and Ca,
making right angles with
Ed.
"We give an outline only
of the demonstration, requiring the pupil to make it
complete.
First Part.—Prove' the four triangles ABC, AbD, DnE,
and EaC, equal to each other.
The proof is as follows: The A's ABC and DnE are
equal, because the angles of the one are equal to the
angles of the other, each to each, and the hypotenuse
AC of the one, is equal to the hypotenuse DE of the
other. In like manner, it may be shown that the A's
AbD and Ea C are equal.
Now, the sum of the three angles about A, is equal to
the sum of the three angles of the A ABC; and if, from
the first sum, we take |_DAC + |_ CAB, and from the
Becond we take [_B + [_ CAB = [_DAC+ |_ CAB, the
remainii.g angles are equal; that is, \_DAb is equal to
|_ ACB; hence the A's ABC and DbA have their angles
equal, each to each; and since AC = DA, the A's are
themselves equal, and the four triangles ABC, AbD,
DnE, and EaC, are equal to each other.
Second. — Prove that the square bDnd is equal to a
»quare on AB. The square BdaCia obviously on BC.
Third.—The area of the whole figure is equal to the
square on AC, and the area of two of the four equal
right-angled triangles.
Also, the area of the whole figure is equal to two other
\
squares, bDnd and daCB, and two of the tour equal tri-
angles, DnE and EaC.
Omitting or subtracting the areas of two of the four
right-angled a's from each of the two expressions foi
the area of the whole figure, there will remain the square
on AC, equal to the sum of the two squares, Dndb and
daCB.
That is, AB + BC = AC.
Hence the theorem; the square described on the hypote-
nuse of a right-angled triangle, etc.
Scholium.—Hence, to find the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle,
extract the square root of the sum of the squares of the two sides about
the right angle.
THEOREM XL.
In any obtuse-angled triangle, the square en the side oppo-
site the obtuse angle is greater than the sum of the squares
on the other two sides, by twice the rectangle contained by
either side about the obtuse angle, and the part of this side
produced to meet the perpendicular drawn to it from, the
vertex of the opposite angle.
Let ABC be any triangle in which
the angle at B is obtuse. Produce
either side about the obtuse angle,
as CB, and from A draw AD perpen-
dicular to CB, meeting it produced
ati>.
It is obvious that CD = CB + BD.
By Th. 36 we have, Vlf = US' + 2CB x BD + JW\
Adding AD' to each member of this equation, we nave
AD' + CD* = CB*1 BD'-r AD* + 2CB x BD.
But, (Th. 30), the first member of the last equation i»
equal to A C*, and

BD' + AD' = AB1
GEOMETRY.
Therefore, this equation becomes
~AC* = CJ?+ AB* + 2CB x BD.
That is, the square on A C is equivalent to the sum of
the squares on CB and AB, increased by twice the rect-
angle contained by CB and BD.
Hence the theorem; in any obtuse-angled triangle, 'he
tjuare on the side oppositethe obtuse angle, etc.
Scholium.—Conceive AB to turn about the point A, its intersection
with CD gradually approaching D. The last equation above will be
true, however near this intersection is to D, and when it falls upon D
the triangle becomes right-angled.
In this case the line BD reduces to zero, and the equation becomes
AC* = CB* + An, in which CB and AB are now the base and per-
pendicular of a right-angled triangle. This agrees with Theorem 39,
as it should, since we used the property of the right-angled triangle
established in Theorem 39 to demonstrate this proposition; and in the
equation which expresses a property of the obtuse-angled triangle, we
have introduced a supposition which changes it into one which is
right-angle 1.
THEOREM XLI.
In any triangle, the square on a side opposite an acute angle
is less than the sum of the squares on the other two sides, by
twice the rectangle contained by either of these sides, and the
distance from the vertex of the acute angle to the foot of the
perpendicular let fall on this side, or side produced, from the
vertex of its opposite angle.
Let ABC, either
figure, represent
any triangle; C an
acute angle, CB
the base, and AD
the perpendicular,
which falls either
54

C a
Now we are to prove that
ZB'= CB2 + ACi—2CB x CD.
Prom the first figure we get BD = CD — CB (1)
and from the second Bjp= OB— CD (2)
Either one of these equations will give, (Th. 37),
BD2 = CD2 + CB2 — 2CD x CB.
Adding AD* to each memher and reducing, we obtain,
(Th. 39), AB2 = AC* + CB2 — 2CBx CD, which proved
the proposition. Hence the theorem.
THEOREM XLII.
If in any triangle a line be drawn from any angle to the
middle of the opposite side, twice the square of this line,
together with twice the square of one half the side bisected, will
*>e equivalent to the sum of the squares of the other two sides
Let ABC be a triangle, and
M the middle point of its
base.
Then we are to prove that
2AM2 + 2CM2 = AC2+AB\
Draw AD perpendicular to
the base, and make AD = p,
AC=b, AB = c, CB=2a,
AM = w, and MD = x: then CM = a, CD = a + x, DB
«= a — x.
Now by, (Th. 39), we have the two following equations:
f+(a — x)' ==c» (1)
f + (a + x)' = b* '(2)
tf y addition, 2p* + 2x* + 2a' = 5-^. But f + x' == »»•*
Therefore, 2m' + 2a' = V + c\
This equation is the algebraic enunciation of the
theorem.


THEOREM XLIII.
The two diagonals of any parallelogram bisect each other,
and the sum of their squares is equivalent to the sum of the
tquares of the four sides of the parallelogram.
Let ABCD be any parallelogram,
and AC and BD its diagonals
We are now tc prove,
1st. That AE = EC, and DE =
EB.
2d. That AC2 + BD2 = AB2 + B~C* + CD2 +~AD*,
1. The two triangles ABE and CDE are equal, be-
cause AB= CD, the angle ABE= the alternate angle
CDE, and the vertical angles at E are equal; therefore,
AE, the side opposite the angle ABE, is equal to CE,
the side opposite the equal angle CDE; also EB, the
remaining side of the one A, is equal to ED, the remain-
ing side of the other triangle.
2. As ACD is a triangle whose base, AC, is bisected
in E, we have, by (Th. 42),
2AE2+2ED2 = ~AD2 + DC2 (1)
And as A CB is a triangle whose base, A C, is bisected
in E, we have
2AE2 + 2EB2 =~AB2 + BC2 (2)
liy adding equations (1) and (2), and observing that
EB' = ED2, we have
AAE2 + 4ED2 = ~AD2 +~BrC2 +~AB2 + B~C*
But, four times the square of the half of a line is equiv-
alent to the square of the whole line, (Th. 36, Corollary);
therefore 4AE* = AC', and 4EDi = DB'', and by sub-
stituting these values, we have
AC2 +^D2 =~AB2 +~BC2 + ~DC2 + AD2,
which equation conforms to the enunciation of tbu
theorem.
A C B D
k a
L
i M F
c
THEOREM XLIV.
If a lint be bisected and produced, the rectangle contained
by the whole line and the part produced, together with the
equare of one half the bisected line, will be equivalent to the
square on a line made up of the part produced and one half the
bisected line.
Let AB be any line, bi-
sected in C and produced
to D. On CD describe
the square CF, and on
BD describe the square
BE.
. The sides of the square
BE being produced, the
square GL will be form-
ed. Also, complete the construction of the rectangle
ADEK.
Then we are to prove that the rectangle, AE, and the
aquare, GL, are together equivalent to the square,
CDFG.
The two complementary rectangles, CL and LF, are
equal, (Th. 31). But CL=AH, the line AB being bisected
at C; therefore AL is equal to the sum of the two com-
plementary rectangles of the square CF. To AL add
ths square BE, and the whole rectangle, AE, will be
equal to the two rectangles CE and EM. To each of
these equals add HM, or the square on EL or its equal
CB, and we have rectangle AE + square EM = CI? •
oat rectangle AE= AD x BD, and square HM— CB2.
Hence the theorem, etc.
Scholium. — If -we represent AB by 2a, and BD by x, then AD =
2a + x, and AD X BD = 2ax + x7. But TH? = a'; adding this
equation to the preceding, member to member, 'we get AD X BD +
CB' = a' + 2ax + i' = s + i'. But CD = a + x; hence this equa-
tion is equivalent to the equation AD X DB + CB' = CD , which ii
the algebraic proof of the theorem.
THEOREM XLV.
If a straight line be divided into two equal parts, and aha
into two unequal parts, the rectangle contained by the two un-
equal parts together with the square of the line between the
points of division, will be equivalent to the square on one half
the line.
Let AB be a line bisected in C, and divided into two
unequal parts in D.
We are to prove
that AD x DB + . p , ,c
CD' = AC*, or CB\ A
We see by inspection that AD = AC + CD, and BB
- AC— CB; therefore by (Th. 38), we have
ADx BD = AC2—'CD\
By adding CD' to each of these equals, we obtain
AD x BD +~CB> -"AC*
Ileuce the theorem.
BOOK II.
PROPORTION.
DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS.
The word Proportion, in its common meaning, de-
uotes that general relation or symmetry existing between
the different parts of an object which renders it agree-
able to our taste, and conformable to our ideas of beauty
or utility; but in a mathematical sense,
1. Proportion is the numerical relation which one quan-
tity bears to another of the s&me kind.
As the magnitudes compared must be of the same kind,
proportion in geometry can be only that of a line to a
line, a surface to a surface, an angle to an angle, or a volume
to a volume.
2. Ratio is a term by which the number which meas-
ures the proportion between two magnitudes is desig-
nated, and is the quotient obtained by dividing the one
by the other. Thus, the ratio of A to B is --, or A : B,
in which A is called the antecedent, and B the consequent.
If, therefore, the magnitude A be assumed as the unit ox
standard, this quotient is the numerical value of B ex-
pressed in terms of this unit.
It is to be remarked that this principle lies at the found-
ation of the method of representing quantities by num-
bers. For example-, when we say that a body weighs
twenty-five pounds, it is implied that the weight of this
body has been compared, directly or indirectly, with that
of the standard, one pound. And so of geometrica
magnitudes; when a line, a surface, or a volume is said
to be fifteen linear, superficial, or cubical feet, it is un-
derstood that it has been referred to its particular unit,
and found to contain it fifteen times; that is, fifteen if
the ratio of the unit to the magnitude.
When two magnitudes are referred to the same unit,
the ratio of the numbers expressing them will be the
ratio of the magnitudes themselves.
Thus, if i and B have a common unit, a, which ia
contained in A, m times, and in B, n times, then A = ma
j r> i B na n
and B = na, and — = — = —
A ma m
To illustrate, let the
line A contain the line I ! ~
a six times, and let the
line B contain the same a
line a five times: then
A=6a and B—ba, which B
. B ha 5
glVe A = 6a " 6-
3. A Proportion is a formal statement of the equality
of two ratios.
Thus, if we have the four magnitudes A, B, C and D,
T> J)
isuch that — = -—, this relation is expressed by the pro-
portion A : B :: C: D, or A : B = O: D, the first of
vrhich is read, A is to B as C is to D; and the second,
the ratio of A to B is equal to that of C to D.
4. The Terms of a proportion are the magnitudes, or
'.-dure properly the representatives of the magnitudes
compared.
5. The Extremes of a proport on are its first and fourth
terms.
6. The Means of a proportion are its second and third
terns.
7. A Couplet consists of the two terms of a ratio. The
first and second terms of a proportion are called the
first couplet, and the third and fourth terms are called
the second couplet.
8. The Antecedents of a proportion are its first and
third terms.
9. The Consequents of a proportion are its second and
fourth terms.
In expressing the equality of ratios in the form of s
proportion, we may make the denominators the ante-
cedents, and the numerators the consequents, or the
reverse, without affecting the relation between the magni-
tudes. It is, however, a matter of some little importance
to the beginner to adopt a uniform rule for writing the
terms of the ratios in the proportion; and we shall always,
unless otherwise stated, make the denominators of the
ratios the antecedents, and the numerators the conse-
quents.*
10. Equimultiples of magnitudes are the products arising
from multiplying the magnitudes by the same number.
Thus, the products, Am and Bm, are equimultiples of
A and B.
11. A Mean Proportional between two magnitudes is a
magnitude which will form with the two a proportion,
when it is made a consequent in the first ratio, and an
antecedent in the second. Thus, if we have three mag-
nitudes A, B, and C, such that A : B :: B : C, B is a
mean proportional between A and C.
12. Two magnitudes are reciprocally, or inversely pro-
portional when, in undergoing changes in value, one is
multiplied and the other is divided by the same number.
Thus, if A and B be two magnitudes, so related that when
T>
A becomes mA, B becomes —, A and B are said to be
m
inversely proportional.
* For discussion of the two methods of expressing Ratio, see Dbi
vorsity Algebra.
13. A Proportion is taken inversely when the ante-
cedents are made the consequents and the consequents
the antecedents.
14. A Proportion is taken alternately, or by alternation,
when t^e antecedents are made one couplet and the con-
sequents the other.
15. Mutually Equiangular Polygons have the same num-
ber of angles, those of the one equal to those of the
others, each to each, and the angles like placed.
16. Similar Polygons are such as are mutually equi-
angular, and have the sides about the equal angles, taken
in the same order, proportional.
17. Homologous Angles in similar polygons are those
which are equal and like placed; and
18. The Homologous Sides are those which are like dis-
posed about the homologous angles.
THEOREM I.
if the first and second of four magnitudes are equal, and
also the third and fourth, the four magnitudes may form a
proportion.
Let A, B, C, and D represent four magnitudes, such
that A = B and C = D; we are to prove that A : B ::
C:1).
Now, hy hypothesis, A is equal to B, and their ratio is
therefore 1; and since, by hypothesis, C is equal to D,
their ratio is also 1.
Hence, the ratio of A to B is equal to that of C to D;
and, (by Def. 3),
A : B :: C:1).
Therefore, four magnitudes which are equal, two and
two, constitute a proportion.
THEOREM II.
If four magnitudes constitute a proportion, the product of
the extremes is equal to the product of the means.
Let the four magnitudes A, B, C, and D form the pro-
portion A : B :: C : D; we are to prove that A x D
~BxC.
The ratio of A to B is expressed by -j = r.
The ratio of C to D is expressed by ^ = r.
Hence, (Ax. 1), -j = ^.
Multiplying each of these equals by A x C, we have
Hence the theorem; if four magnitudes are in propor-
tion, etc.
Cor. 1. Conversely; If we have the product of tico mag-
nitudes equal to the product of two other magnitudes, they
will constitute a proportion of which either two may be
made the extremes and the other two the means.
Let the magnitudes By. C = A x D. Dividing both
members of the equation by A X C, we obtain
B_B
A~C-
Henco the proportion A : B :: (7:2).
Cor. 2. If we divide both members of the equation
Ax D = Bx C by A,
we have D = —-.—.
A
That is, to find the fourth term of a proportion, mul-
tiply the second and third terms together and divide the pro-
duct by the first term. This is the Rule of Three of
Arithmetic. , .
This equation shows that any one of the foui terms
can be found by a like process, provided the other three
are given.
THEOREM III.
If three magnitudes are continued proportionals, the product
of the extremes is equal to the square of the mean.
Let A, B, and Crepresent the three magnitudes:
Then A : B :: B : C, (by Def. 11).
But, (by Th. 2), the product of the extremes is equal
to the product of the means; that is, A x C= B*.
Hence the theorem; if three magnitudes, etc.
THEOREM IV.
Equimultiples of any two magnitudes have the same ratio
as the magnitudes themselves; and the magnitudes and their
equimultiples may therefore form a proportion.
Let A and B represent two magnitudes, and mA and
mB their equimultiples'.
Then we are to prove that A : B :: mA • mB.
T>
The ratio of A to B is -i, and of mA U> mB ia
JO.
mB B ., ,.
—r = -j, the same ratio.
mA A
Ilence the theorem; equimultiples of any two vqq**
tudes, etc.
THEOREM V.
If four magnitudes are proportional, they wiU be propor-
tional when taken inversely.
If A : B :: mA : mB, then B : A -t: mB : mA;
For in either case, the product of the extremes equals
that of the means; or the ratio of the couplets is the
same.
Hence the theorem; if four quantities are propor<
tional, etc.
THEOREM VI.
Magnitudes which, are proportional to the same propor
tionals, are proportional to each other.
If A : B — P : Q \ Then we are to prove that
and •«: b = P : Q) A : B = a : b.
v BO
From the 1st proportion, — = -^;
From the 2d " - = -§;
a F
Therefore, by (Ax. 1), -j = -, or A : B = a : b.
j\. a
Hence the theorem; magnitudes which are proportional
to the same proportionals, etc.
Cor. 1. This principle may he extended through any
number of proportionals. v
Cor. 2. If the ratio of an antecedent and consequent of one
proportion is equal to the ratio of an antecedent and conse-
quent of another proportion, the remaining terms of the two
proportions are proportional.
For, if A : B :: C : JD
and M : .N :: P: Q
in which z=„,then^=J;
henoe C : D :: P : Q.
THEOREM VII.
If any number of magnitudes are proportional, any one of
the antecedents will be to its consequent as the sum of all tht
inU'cedents is to the sum of all the consequents.
Let A, B, C, D, U, etc., represent the several magm
tudes whi 3h give the proportions
A : B:
: C : B
A : B:
: E: F
A : B:
: Q-: H, etc., etc
6*
To which we may annex the identical proportion,
A : B :: A : B.
Now, (by Th. 2), these proportions give the following
equations,
A x D = B x O
A x F = B x U
A x ff= B x a
A x B •= B x A, etc. etc.
From which, by addition, there results the equation,
A(B + D + F+H, etc.) = B(A+ C+E+G,etc.)
But the sums B + D + F, etc., and A + C + E, etc.,
may be separately regarded as single magnitudes; there-
fore, (Th. 2, Cor. 1),
A : B :: A+C+E+G, etc. : B + D + F+ H, etc.
Hence the theorem; if any number of magnitudes are pro-
portional, etc.
THEOREM VIII.
If four magnitudes constitute a proportion, the first will be
to the sum of the first and second as the third is to the sum of
the third and fourth.
By hypothesis, A : B :: C: D; then we are to prove
that A : A + B ;: C: C + D.
By the given proportion, — = —.
Adding unity to both members, and reducing them to
the form of a fraction, we have —-— = —-~—. Chang-
ing this equation into its equivalent proportional form,
wo have
A : A + B :: C: C + D.
Hence the theorem , if four magnitudes constitute a pro-
portion, etc.
Cor. If we subtract each member of the equation -j =»
p from unity, and reduce as before, we shall have
A : A — B :: C: C — D.
Hence also; if four magnitudes constitute a proportion,
the first is to the difference between the first and second, as the
third is to the difference between the third and fourth.
THEOREM IX.
If four magnitudes are proportional, the sum of the first and
second is to their difference as the sum of the third and fourth
is to their difference.
Let A, B, C, and D be the four magnitudes which give
the proportion
A : B :: O : D;
we are then to prove that they will also give the propor-
tion
A + B : A —B :: C + D : C — D.
By Th. 8 we have A : A + B = O: C + D.
Also by Corollary, same Th., A : A — B = C: O— J).
!Now, if we change the order of the means in these pro-
portions, which may be done, since the products of ex-
tremes and means remain the same, we shall have
A : O = A + B : C + D.
A : C = A — B : C—D.
Hence, (Th. 6), we have
A + B : C + D = A — B : C—D.
Or, A + B : A — B = C+ D : C— D.
Ilenoe the theorem; if four magnitudes are proportional.
etc.
THEOREM X.
If four magnitudes are proportional, like powers or like
roots of the same magnitudes are also proportional.
If the four magnitudes, A, B, C, and D, give the pro-
portion
x
A : B :: O : D,
we are to prove that
An : B" :: O" : Dn.
7? T)
The hypothesis gives the equation — = —. liaising
A 0
both members of this equation to the nth power, we have
Bn Dn
-j^ = —i, which, expressed in its equivalent proportional
form, gives
A" : Bn :: Cn : Dn.
If n is a whole number, the terms of the given propor-
tion are each raised to a power; but if n is a fraction
having unity for its numerator, and a whole number for its
denominator, like roots of each are taken.
As the terms of the proportion may be first raised to
like powers, and then like roots of the resulting propor-
tion be taken, n may be any number whatever.
Hence the theorem; if four magnitudes, etc.
THEOREM XI.
Jf four magnitudes are proportional, and also four others,
the products which arise from multiplying the first four by the
second four, term by term, are also proportional.
Admitting that A: B
and X: Y
We are to show that AX: B T
C : D,
M : N,
CM: DN.
From the second,
From the first proportion, — ~= -^;
A C
Y^N
X M'
Multiply these equations, member by member, and
BY DN.
AX CM;
Or, AX : BY:: CM: DN.
The same would be true in any number ol proportionu.
Hence the theorem; if four magnitudes are, etc.
THEOREM XII.
If four magnitudes are proportional, and also four others,
the quotients which arise from dividing the first four by th«
second four, term by term, are proportional.
By hypothesis, A : B :: C : D,
and X: T :: M: N.
Multiply extremes and means, AD = CB, (1)
and XN=MY. (2)
Divide (1) by (2), and £ *&=&*§•
Convert these four factors, which make two equal pro-
ducts, into a proportion, and we have
'A* B CD
X: Y': M' N'
By comparing this with the given proportions, we find
it is composed of the quotients of the several terms of
the first proportion, divided by the corresponding terms
of the second.
Hence the theorem; if four magnitudes are proportional,
etc.
THEOREM XIII.
If four magnitudes are proportional, we may multiply the
first couplet, the second couplet, the antecedents or the conse-
juents, or divide them by the same quantity, and the results
will be proportional in every case.
Let the four magnitudes A, B, C, and D give the pro-
(M)rtion A: B :: C: D. By multiplying the extremes
and means wo have
A.D = B.C (1)
Multiply both members of this equation by any num-
ber, as a, and we have
aA.D = aB.C
By Converting this equation into a proportion in four
different ways, we have as follows:
aA : aB :: C : D
A : B :: aC : aD
aA : B :: aC : D
A : aB :: C : aB.
Resuming the original equation, (1), and dividing both
members by a, we have
A.D B.O
a a
This equation may also be converted into a proportion
in four different ways, with the following results:
A
;
JJ
C : D
a
a
C . D
A:
B::
a a
A
?:D
: B::
a
a
. B ..
C:»
A
a
a
Hence the theorem; if four magnitudes are in proportion,
etc.
THEOREM XIV.
If three magnitude* are in proportion, the first is to tht
third as the square of the first is to the square of the second.
Let A, B, and C, be three proportionals.
Then we are to prove that A : C= A': B*
ByW3) AC=B'
Multiply this equation by the numeral value of A, and
we have * A'C=AB'
This equation gives the following proportion:
A\C=A':B'.
Hence the theorem.
Remahk. — It is now proposed to make an application of the pre
coding abstract principles of proportion, in geometrical investigation*
71


THEOREM XV.
If two parallelograms are equal in area, the base and per-
pendicular of either may be made the extremes of a propor-
tion, of which the base and perpendicular of the other are the
means.
Lot ABCD,
and HLNM,
ae two paral-
lelograms hav-
ing equal areas, A
by hypothesis; then we are to prove that
AB : LN :: MK : BF,
in which MK and BF are the
altitudes or perpendiculars of
the parallelograms.
This proportion is true, if
tne product of the extremes
is equal to the product of the means;
that is, if the equation
AB.BF = LN.MK is true.
But AB.BF is the measure of the rectangle ABFE,
by (Definition 54, B. I.), and this rectangle is equal in
area to the parallelogram ABCD, (B. I., Th. 27).
In the same manner, we may prove that LN.MK is
the measure of the parallelogram NLHM. But these
two parallelograms have equal areas by hypothesis.
Therefore, AB.BF = LN.MK is a true equation, and
Th. 2, Cor. 1), gives the proportion
AB : LN:: MK : BF.
Hence the theorem; if two parallelograms are equal in
area, etc.
* THEOREM XVI.
Parallelograms having equal altitudes are to each other at
their bases.
Since parallelograms having equal bases and equal
altitudes are equal in area, however much their angle*

may differ, we can suppose the two parallelograms under
consideration to be mutually equiangular, without in the
least impairing the generality of this theorem. There-
fore, let ABCD
and AEFD be two
parallelograms
having equal alti-
tudes, an d let them
be placed with
their bases on the same line AE, and let the side, ADt
be common. First suppose their bases commensurable,
and that AE being divided into nine equal parts, AB
contains five of those parts.
If, through the points of division, lines be drawn paral-
lel to AD, it is obvious that the whole figure, or the
narallelogram, AEFD, will be divided into nine equal
. arts, and that the parallelogram, ABCD, will be com-
posed of five of those parts.
Therefore, ABCD : AEFD :: AB : AE :: 5 : 9.
Whatever be the whole numbers having to each other
the ratio of the lines AB and AE, the reasoning would
remain the same, and the proportion is established when
the bases are commensurable. But if the. bases are not
to eacb other in the ratio of any two whole numbers, it
retrains still to be shown that
AEFD : ABCD :: AE : AB (1)
If this propor-
tion is not true,
there must be a
line greater or less
than AB, to which
C M

AE will have the A B L K
same ratio that AEFD has to ABCD.
Suppose the fourth proportional greater than AB, m
AK, then,
AEFD : ABCD :: AE : AK (2).
V
If we now divide the line AE into equal parts, each
less than the line BK, one point of division, at least, will
fall between B a!nd K. Let L be such point, and draw
LM parallel to ^C.
This.construction makes AE and AL commensura-
ble; and by what has been already demonstrated, we
have
AEFD : ALMD :: AE : AL. (3)'
Inverting the means in proportions (2) and (3), they
become
AEFD : AE :: ABCD : AK;
and AEFl) : AE :: ALMD: AL.
Hence, (Th. 6),
AB OD : AK :: ALMD : AL.
By inverting the means in this last proportion, we have
ABCD : ALMD :: AK : AL.
But AK is, by hypothesis, greater than AL; hence, if
this proportion is true, ABCD must be greater than
ALMD; but on the contrary it is less. We therefore
conclude that the supposition, that the fourth propor-
tional, AK, is greater than AB, from which alone this
absurd proportion results, is itself absurd.
In a similar manner it can be proved absurd to sup-
pose the fourth proportional less than AB.
Therefore the fourth term of the proportion (1) can be
neither less nor greater than AB; it is then AB itself,
and parallelograms having equal altitudes are to each
other as their bases, whether these bases are commensur-
able or not.
Hence the theorem; Parallelograms having equal alti-
tudes, etc.
Cor. 1. Since a triangle is one half of a parallelogram
having the same base as the triangle and an equal alti-
tude, and as the halves of magnitudes have the same
ratio as their wholes; therefore,
GEOMETRY.
Triangles having the same or equal altitudes are to each
other as their bases.
Cor. 2. Any triangle has the same area as a right-
angled triangle having the same base and an equal alti-
tude; and as either side about the right angle of aright-
angled triangle may be taken as the base, it follows that
Two triangles having the same or equal bases are to each
other as their altitudes.
Cor. 3. Since either side of a parallelogram may be
taken as its base, it follows from this theorem that
Parallelograms having equal bases are to each other as their
altitudes.
THEOREM XVII.
If lines are drawn cutting the sides, or the sides produced, of
a triangle proportionally, such secant lines are parallel to the
base of the triangle; and conversely, lines drawn parallel
to the base of a triangle cut the sides, or the sides produced,
proportionally.
Let ABC be any triangle, and
draw the line DE dividing the sides
AB and AC into parts which give
the proportion
AD : DB :: AE : EC.
We are to prove that DE is parallel
to BC.
If DE is not a parallel through
the point D to the line BC, suppose
Dm to be that parallel; and draw the
lines -DC and Bm.
Now, the two triangles ADm and
mDC, have the same altitude, since
they have a common vertex, D, and their bases in the
same line, AC; hence, they are to each other as their
bases, Am and mC, (Th. 16, Cor. 1).

1h
*. That is,
A ADm
: A mDC :: Am:
: mC,
* Also,
A AmD
: A DmB:: AD:
: DB.
But, since Dm is supposed parallel to BC, the trianglea
DBm and DCm have equal areas, because they are on
the same base and between the same parallels, (Th. 28,
B.I).
Therefore the terms of the first couplets in the two
preceding proportions are equal each to each, and conse-
quently the terms of the second couplets are proportional,
(Theorem 6).
That is, AD : DB :: Am : mC
But AD : DB :: AH : EC by hypothesis.
Hence we again have two proportions having the firet
couplets, the same in both, and we therefore have
AE : EC :: Am : mC
By alternation this becomes
AE : Am :: EC : mC
That is, AE is to Am, a greater magnitude is to a less,
as EC is to mC, a less to a greater, which is absurd.
Had we supposed the point m to fall between E and 0,
our conclusion wou'd have been equally absurd; hence
the suppositious which have led to these absurd results
are themselves absurd, and the line drawn through the
point D parallel to BC must intersect AC in the point
E. Therefore the parallel and the line DE are one and
the 3ame line.
Conversely: IfDE be drawn parallel to the base of the
triangle, then will
AD : DB :: AE : EO
For as before,
A ADE : a EDC :: AE : EC
and A DEB : A ADE:: DB : AD
Multiplying the corresponding terms of these propoi
I
tions, and omitting the common factor, a ADE, in the..
first couplet, we have
A DEB : A EDC :: AE X DB : EC x AD.
But the a's DEB and ^Z)C have equal areas, (Th. 28,
B. I); hence AE x DB = EC x AD, which in the form
of a proportion is
AE : EC :: AD : DB
or, AD : DB :: AE : EC
and therefore the line parallel to the base of the triangle,
divides the sides proportionally.
It is evident that the reasoning would remain the same,
had we conceived ADE to be the triangle and the sides
to be produced to the points B and C.
Hence the theorem; if lines are drawn cutting the
sides, etc.
Cor. 1. Because DE is parallel to BC, and intersects
the sides AB and AC, the angles ADE and ABC are
equal. For the same reason the angles AED and ACB
are equal, and the A's ADE and ABC are equiangular.
Let us now take up the triangle ADE, and place it on
ABC; the angle ADE falling on [_ B, the side AD on
the side AB, and the side DE on the side BC
Now, since the angle A is common, and the angles
AED and ACB are equal, the side AE of the A ADE,
in its new position, will be parallel to the side AC of the
A ABC.
The last proportion of this Th. gives (Th. 8 and Th. 5),
AD : AE:: AB : AC
From the above construction we obtain, by a similar
course of reasoning, the proportion
AD : DE :: AB : BC
And in like manner it may be shown that
AE : ED :: AC: CB
That is, the sides about the equal angles of equiangular
triangles, taken in the same order,are proportional, and the
triangles are similar, (Def. 16)
Cor. 2. Two triangles having an angle in one equal to an
angle in the other, and the sides about these equal angles pro-
portional, are equiangular and similar.
For, if the smaller triangle be placed on the larger;
the equal angles of the triangles coinciding, then will
the sides opposite these angles be parallel, and the trian-
gles will therefore be equiangular and similar.
THEOREM XVIII.
If any triangle have its sides respectively proportional to
the like or homologous sides of another triangle, each to each,
then the two triangles will be equiangular and similar.
Let the triangle abc have its sides pro-
portional to the triangle ABC; that is, ao
to AC as cb to CB, and ac to AC aa db to
AB; then we are to prove that
the A's, abc and ABC, are equi-
angular and similar.
On the other side of the base,
AB, and from A, conceive the
angle BAD to be drawn = to the
|_ a; and from the point B,
conceive the angle ABD to be
drawn = to the |_ b. Then the third |_ D must be =
to the third [_ c, (B. I, Th. 12, Cor. 2); and the A ABB
will be equiangular to the A abc by construction.
Therefore, ac : ab = AD : AB
By hypothesis, ac : ab = AC : AB
Hence, AD : AB = A C : AB, (Th. 6).
In this last proportion the consequents are equal;
therefore, the antecedents are equal: that is,
AD = AC
la the same manner we may prove that
BD = OB


But AB is common to the two triangles; therefore
the three jides of the A ABD are respectively equal to
the three sides of the A ABC, and the two a's are equal,
(B. I, Th. 21).
But the A's ABD, and abc, are equiangular hy con-
struction; therefore, the A's, ABC, and abc, are also
equiangular and similar.
Hence the theorem; if any triangle have its sides, etc.
Second Demonstration.
Let ale and ABC be two triangles
whose sides are respectively propor-
tional, then will the triangles be equi-
angular and similar.
That is, La = LA L& = L.£, and
L«=L o.
If the Lc De m fac*
equal to the L C, the tri-
angle abc can be placed
on the triangle ABC, ca
taking the direction of
CA and cb of OB. The
line ab will then divide
the sides CA and CB proportionally, and will therefore
be parallel to AB, and the triangles will be equiangular
and similar, (Th. 17).
But if the [_c be not equal to the L @, then place ic
on AC as before, the point c falling on 0. Under the
present supposition cb will not fall on CB, but will tak*.
another direction, CV, on one side or the other of CB
Make CV equal to cb and draw a V.
Now, the A abc is represented in magnitude and posi-
tion by the A a VC; and if, through the point a, the line
ab be drawn parallel to AB, we shall have
Ca : CA :: ab :AB;
nt by (Hy.) Ca : CA :: aV : AB.

79
Hence, (Th. d),
ab : AB :: aV : AB;
which requires that ab = a V, but (Th. 22, B. 1) ab can
not he equal to aV; hence the last proportion is absurd,
and the supposition that the |_ c is not equal to the [_ (7,
which leads to this result, is also absurd. Therefore,
the [_c is equal to the [_ C, and the triangles are equi-
angular and similar.
Hence the theorem; if any triangle have its sides, eta.
Bl-
Cl-
Dl-
THEOREM XIX.
If four straight lines are in proportion, the rectangle con-
tained by the lines which constitute the extremes, is equivalent
to that contained by those which constitute the means of the
proportion.
Let A, B, C, D, represent the four A'~ ~^
lines; then we are to show, geo-
metrically, that A X J) = B x C.
Place A and B at right angles to each
other, and draw the hypotenuse. Also place
C and D at right angles to each other, and
draw the hypotenuse. Then bring the two
triangles together, so that C shall be at right
angles to B, as represented in the figure.
Now, these two A's have each a R. |_,
and the sides about the equal angles are pro-
portional; that is, A : B :: C: D; hence,
(Th. 17, Cor. 2), the two A's are equiangular, and the
acute angles which meet at the extremities of B and C,
are together equal to one right angle, and the lines B
and 0 are so placed as to make another right angle;
therefore, also, the extremities of A, B, C, and D, are in
one right line, (Th. 3, B. I), and that line is the diag-
A
b
N
BC
\ D
! AD
4
onal of the parallelogram be. By Th. 31, B. I, th«
complementary parallelograms about this diagonal are
equal; but, on< of these parallelograms is B m length,
and C in width, and the other is D in length and A in
width; therefore,
B x C = A < D.
Hence the theorem; if four straight lines are in propor-
tion, etc.
Cor. When B = C, then A X D = B', and B is the
mean proportional between A and D. That is, if three
straight lines are in proportion, the rectangle contained
by the first and third lines is equivalent to the square
described on the second line.
THEOREM XX.
Similar triangles are to one another as the squares of their
homologous sides.
Let ABC and DEF be two
similar triangles, and LC and
MF perpendiculars to the sides
AB and DE respectively. Then
we are to prove that
A ABC: A DEF = AB' : DE2.
By the similarity of the tri-
angles, we have,
AB :DE = LC : MF
But, AB :DE = AB: DE
Hence, AB2 : B~E* = AB X LC: DE x MF.
But, (by Th. 30, B. I), AB x LC is double the area
of the A ABC, and DE x MF is double the area of the
A DEF.
Therefore, A ABC: \DEF::AB x LC :DExMI
And,(Th.6),AvlBC:Ai>£lT= ^B' :BE\
Hence the theorem; similar triangles are to one another,
ttc. - -'*
.- .

81
The followirg illustration will enable the learner fullj
to comprehend this important theorem, and it will also
serve to impress it upon his memory.
Let abc and ABC represent two equiangular triangles.
Suppose the length of
the side ac to be two
units, and the length
of the corresponding
side AC to be three
units.
Now, drawing lines
through the points of
division of the sides ac and A C, parallel to the other sides
of the triangles, we see that the smaller triangle is com-
posed of four equal triangles, while the larger contains
nine such triangles. That is,
the sides of the triangles are as 2 : 3,
and their areas are as 4 : 9 = 2* : 3'.

THEOREM XXI.
Similar polygons may be divided into the same number of
triangles; and to each triangle in one of the polygons there
will be a corresponding triangle in the other polygon, these
triangles being similar and similarly situated.
Lot ABCDE and abode
be two similar polygons.
Now it is obvious thatwti
can divide each polygoc
into as many triangles as
the figure has sides, less
two; and as the polygons have the same number of sides,
the diagonals drawn from the vertices of the homologous
angles will divide them into the same number of tri-
angles

Since the polygons are similar, the angles EAB and tab
are equal, and
EA : AB :: ea : ab.
Hence the two triangles, EAB and eab, having an angle
in the one equal to an angle in the other, and the sides
about these angles proportional, are equiangular and
similar, and the angles ABE and ale are equal.
But the angles ABC and abc are equal, because the
polygons are similar.
Hence, \_ABC— \_ABE = \_abc — \_abe;
that is, [_EBC=[_ebo.
The triangles, EAB and eab, being similar, their ho-
mologous sides give the proportion,
AB : BE :: ab : be; (1)
and since the polygons are similar, the sides about the
equal angles B and b are proportional, and we have
AB : BC :: ab : be;
or, BC : AB :: be : ab. (2)
Multiplying proportions (1) and (2), term by term, and
omitting in the result the factor AB common to the terms
of the first couplet, and the factor ab common to the
terms of the second, we have
BC : BE :: be : be.
Hence the A's EBC and ebc are equiangular and similar,
Rnd thus we may compare all of the triangles of one
polygon with those like placed in the other.
Hence the theorem; similar polygons may be divided, etc
THEOREM XXII.
The perimeters of similar polygons are to one another as
their homologous sides; and their areas are to one another as
'he squares of their homologous sides.
Let ABCDE and abode be two similar polygons; then
we are to prove that AB is to the sum of all the sides
83

of the polygon A B CD, as
ab is to the sum of all
the sides of the polygon
abed.
We have the identical
proportion
AB : ab :: AB : ab;
and since the polygons are similar, we may write the
following:
AB : ab :: BC : be
AB : ab :: CD : cd
AB : ab :: DJE : de, etc. etc.
Hence, (Th. 7),
AB : ab :: AB+BC+CD+DE, etc.: ab+bc+ed+de, etc.
Therefore, the perimeters of similar polygons are to
one another as their homologous sides. This is the first
part of the theorem.
Since the polygons are similar, the triangles EAB, eab,
are similar, and if the triangle EAB is a part expressed
by the traction -, of the polygon to which it belongs,
n
the triangle eab is a like part of the other polygon.
Therefore, EAB : eab :: ABCDEA : abedea.
But, (Th. 20), EAB : eab :: 'AB* : ab2.
Therefore, (Th. 6),
ABCDEA : abedea :: AB2 : ah\
Therefore, the similar polygons are to one another as
the squares on their homologous sides. This is the
second part of the theorem.
Hence the theorem; the perimeters of similar polygon*
are to one another, etc.
THEOREM XXIII
Two triangles which have an angle in the one equal tc an
angle in the other, are to each other as the rectangle of th«
sides about the equal angles
QBOMETRY.


Let ABO and def be two trianglea having the angles
A and d equal. It is to
be proved that the areas
ABC smd def are to each
other as AB.AC is to
de.df.
Conceive the triangle
def placed on the tri-
angle ABC, so that d
shall fall on A, and de on
A B; then df will fall on
AC, because the [__'s A
and d are equal. On AB, lay off Ae, equal to de; and
on AC, lay off Af equal to df, and draw ef. The tri-
angle Aef will then be equal to the triangle def. . Join
B and/.
Now, as triangles having the same altitude are to each
other as their bases, (Th. 16, Cor. 1), we have
Aef :ABf :: Ae : AB
also, ABf : ABC :: Af : AC
Multiplying these proportions together, term by term,
omitting from the result ABf, a factor common to the
terms of the first couplet, we have
Aef : ABC :: Ae.Af : AB. AC
But Aef is equal to def, Ae to de, and Af to df; therefore,
def : ABC :: de . df : AB . AC
Hence the theorem; two triangles which have an angle, etc.
Scholium. — If we suppose that
AB : AC :: de : df,
Iho tw> triangles will be similar; and if -we multiply the terms ot the
first couplet of this proportion by AC, and the terms of the second
rtmplet by df, we shall have
AB .AC : AC* :: de . df: df*
a. AB. AC : de . df :: AC* :dj*
Comparing this with the last proportion in this theorem, and to have,
(Th.6); _
def: ABC:: df : AC*
Remark. — This scholium is therefore another demonstration of
Theorem 20, and hence that theorem need not necessarily have been
made a distinct proposition. We require no stronger proof of the cer-
tainty of geometrical truth, than the fact that, however different the
processes by which we arrive at these truths, we are never led into
inconsistencies; but whenever our conclusions can be compared, they
will harmonize with each other completely, provided our premises are
true and our reasoning logical.
It is hoped that the student will lose no opportunity to exercise
his powers, and test his skill and knowledge, in seeking original
demonstrations of theorems, and in deducing consequences and
conclusions from those already established.
THEOREM XXIV.
If the vertical angle of a triangle be bisected, the bisecting
line will cut the base into segments proportional to the adja-
cent sides of the triangle. - •
Let ABC be any triangle,
and the vertical angle, C, be bi-
sected by the straight line CD.
Then we are to prove that
AD : DB = AC: CB.
Produce AC to E, making
CM = CB, and draw EB. The exterior angle A OB, of
the A CEB, is equal to the two angles E, and CBE\
but the angle E = CBE, because CB = CE, and the tri-
angle is isosceles; therefore the angle ACD, the half of
the angle A CB, is equal to the angle E, and DC and BE
are parallel, (Cor. 2, Th. 7,B. I).
Now, as ABE is a triangle, and CD is parallel to BE,
we have AD : DB = AC: CE or OB, (Th. 17).
Hence ihe theorem; if the vertical angle of a triangle
be bisected, etc.

8

THEOREM XXV.
If from the right angle of a right-angled triangle, a per
pendicular is drawn to the hypotenuse;
1. The perpendvrular divides the triangle into two similar
triangles, each of which is similar to the whole triangle.
2. The perpendicular is a mean proportional between the
tegmtnts of the hypotenuse.
3. The segments of the hypotenuse are in proportion to the
squares on the adjacent sides of the triangle.
4. The sum of the squares on the two sides is equivalent ta
the square on the hypotenuse.
Let BAC be a triangle, right an-
gled at A; and draw AD perpendicu-
lar to BC.
1. The two A's, ABC and ABD, - K t\ -ft
have the common angle, B, and the right angle BAC **
the right angle BDA; therefore, the third |_ 's are equal,
and the two a's are similar by Th. 17, Cor. 1. In the
same manner we prove the A ADC similar to the A
ABC; and the two triangles, ABB, ADC, being similar
to the same A ABC, are similar to each other.
2. As similar triangles have the sides about the equal
angles proportional, (Def. 16), we have
BD : AD :: AD : CD;
or, the perpendicular is a mean proportional between the seg-
ments of the hypotenuse.
3. Again, BC : BA :: BA : BD
hence, BA' = BC.BD (1)
also, BCj_ CA :: CA : CD
hence, CA' = BC.CD (2)
Dividing Eq. (1) by Eq. (2), member Jbj member, w»
obtain
BlC BD
~CA' = CD
which, in the form of a proportion, is
CA* :~BA* :: CD : BD;
that is, the segments of the hypotenuse are proportional to the
squares on the adjacent sides.
4. By the addition of (1) and (2), we have
BA* + CA' = BC(BD 4 CD) = BIT;
that is, the sum of the squares on the sides about the right
angle is equivalent to the square on the hypotenuse. .This 18
another demonstration of Theorem 39, B. I.
Hence the theorem , if from the right angle of a right-
angled triangle, etc.
GEOMETRY.
BOOK III.
OF THE CIRCLE, AND THE INVESTIGATION OF THBO
RExMS DEPENDENT ON ITS PROPERTIES.
DEFINITIONS.
L * A Curved Line is one whose consecutive parts, how-
ever small, do not lie in the same direction.
2. A Circle is a plane figure bounded by one uniformly
curved line, all of the points of which are at the same
distance from a certain point within, called the center
3. The Circumference of a cir-
cle is the curved line that
bounds it.
4. The Diameter of a circle
is a line passing through the
center, and terminating at both
extremities in the circumfer-
ence. Thus, in the figure, C is
the center of the circle, the
curved line A GrBD is the cir-
cumference, and AB is a diameter.
5. The Radius of a circle is a line extending from the
center to any point in the circumference. Thus, CD ia
a radius of the circle.
6. An Arc of a circle is any portion of the circum-
ference.
* The first six of the above definitions have been before given among
the general definitions of Geometry, but it was deemed advisable to
reinsert them here.

7. A Chord of a circle is the line connecting the ex-
tremities of an arc.
8. A Segment of a circle is the portion of the circle on
either side of a chord.
Thus, in the last figure, EGF is an arc, and EF is a
chord of the circle, and the spaces bounded by the chord
FF, and the two arcs EOF and EDF, into which it
divides the circumference, are segments.
9. A Tangent to a circle is a line which, meeting the
circumference at any point, will not cut it on being
produced. The point in which the tangent meets the
circumference is called the point of tangency.
10. A Secant to a circle is a line which meets the cir-
cumference in two points, and lies a part within and a
part without the circumference.
11. A Sector of a circle is a portion of the circle included
between any two radii and their intercepted arc.
Thus, in the last figure, the line HL, which meets the
circumference at the point D, but does not cut it, is a
tangent, D being the point of tangency; and the line
MN, which meets the circumference at the points P and
Q, and lies a portion within and a portion without the
circle, is a secant. The area bounded by the arc BD, and
the two radii CB, CD, is a sector of the circle.
12. A Circumscribed Polygon is
one all of whose sides are tangent
to the circumference of the circle;
and conversely, the circle is then
said to be inscribed in the polygon.
13. An Inscribed Polygon is one
the vertices of whose angles are
all found in the circumference
of the circle; and conversely, the circle is then said to be
circumscribed about the polygon.
14. A Regular Polygon is one which is both equiangu-
lar and equilateral.

8*
GEOMETRY.

The last three definitions are illustrated by the last
figure.
THEOREM I.
Any radius perpendicular to a chord, bisects the chord, and
also the arc of the chord.
Let AB be a chord, C the center of
the circle, and CE a radius perpen-
dicular to AB; then we are to prove
that AD = BD, and AE = EB.
Since C is the center of the circle,
AC' = BC, CD is common to the two
A's ACD and BCD, and the angles
at D are right angles; therefore the two A's ADC and
BDC are equal, and AD = DB, which proves the first
part of the theorem.
Now, as AD = DB, and DE is common to the two
spaces, ADE and BDE, and the angles at D are right
angles, if we conceive the sector CBE turned over and
placed on CAE, CE retaining its position, the point B
will fall on the point A, because AD = BD and AC —
BC; then the arc BE will fall on the arc AE; otherwise
there would be points in one or the other arc unequally
distant from the center, which is impossible; therefore,
the arc AE = the arc EB, which proves the second part
of the theorem.
Hence the theorem.
Cor. The center of the circle, the middle point ot
the chord AB, and of the subtended arc AEB, are
three points in the same straight line perpendicular to
the chord at its middle point. Now as but one perpen-
dicular can be drawn to a line from a given point in that
line, it follows:
1st. That the radius drawn to the middle point oi
any arc bisects, and is perpendicular to, the chord ol
the arc.
91
2d. That the perpendicular to the ctord at its middle
point passes through the center of the circle and the
middle of the subtended arc.

THEOREM II
Equal migles at the center of a circle are subtended 5j
equal chords.
Let the angle A CE = the angle
ECB; then the two isosceles triangles,
ACE, and'ECB, are equal in all re-
spects, and AE = EB.
Hence the theorem.
THEOREM III.
In the same circle, or in equal circles, equal chords art
equally distant from the center.
Let AB and EF be equal chords,
and C tho center of the circle. From
C, draw CO- and CH, perpendicular
to the respective chords. These
perpendiculars will bisect the chords,
(Th. 1), and we shall have AG = EH.
We are now to prove that CG = CE.
Since the A'a ECE and ACG are right-angled, we
have, (Th. 39, B. I),
EH* + "#£' =~EC"
and, A~CF +0C*= ~AC\
By subtracting these equations, member from mem-
ber, we find that
EH' — AG' + HC' — ~GC' = ~EC' — AC* (1)
But the chords are equal by hypothesis, hence then
halves, EH and AG, are equal; also EC = AC, being
radii of the circle. Wherefore,

EH* — AG* = 0
and, ~W — ~AC* = 0.
These values in Equation (1) reduce it to
fix? -ad2 = o
or, HC2=GC2
and, HC = GC.
Hence the theorem.
Cor. Under all circumstances we have
EH2 + HC2 = AG2 + G~b\
because the sum of the squares in either member of the
equation is equivalent to the square of the radius of the
circle.
Now,, if we suppose HC greater than GC, then will
HC2 be greater than GC2. Let the difference of these
squares be represented by d.
Subtracting GO2 from both members of the above
equation, we have
EH2+d=AG2
whence, ~AG2>EH2, and AG> EH.
Therefore, AB, the double of AG, is greater than EF,
the double of EH; that is, of two chords in the same or
equal circles, the one nearer the center is the greater.
The equation, EH2 + HC2 = AG2 + ~GC2, being true,
whatever be the position of the chords, we may suppose
GC to have any value between 0 and AC, the radiue of
the circle.
When GC becomes zero, the equation reduces to
EH2 + HC2 = AG2 = B';
that is, under this supposition, AG coincides with AC,
and AB becomes the diameter of the circle, the greatest
thord that can be drawn in it.

THEOREM IV
A line tangent to the circumference of a circle is at right
ingles with the radius drawn to the point of contact.
Let A C be a line tangent to the circle
at the point B, and draw the radius, EB,
and the lines, AE and CE.
Now, we are to prove that EB is per-
pendicular to AC. Because B is the
only point in the line A C which meets
the circle, (Def. 9, B. Ill), any other line,
as AE or CE, must be greater than EB;
therefore, EB is the shortest line that can be drawn from
the point E to the line AC; and EB is the perpendicu-
lar to AC, (Th. 23, B. I).
Hence the theorem.
THEOREM V.
In the same circle, or in equal circles, equal chords subtend
or stand on equal portions of the circumference.
Conceive two equal circles, and two equal chords drawn
within them- Then, conceive one circle taken up and
placed upon the other, center upon center, in such a po-
sition that the two equal chords will fall on, and exactly
"coincide with, each other; the circles must also coin-
ails, because they are equal; and the two arcs of the two
uircles on either side of the equal chords must also coin-
cide, or the circles could not coincide; and magnitudes
which coincide, or exactly fill the same space, are in all
respects equal, (Ax. 10).
Hence the theorem.

THEOREM VI.
Through three given points, not in the same straight line^
one circumference can be made to pass, and but one.
Let A, B, and C be three given
points, not in the same straight
line, and draw the lines AB and
BC. If a circumference is made
to pass through the two points A
and B, the line AB will be a chord
to such a circle; and if a chord is
bisected by a line at right angles,
the bisecting line will pass through
the center of the circle, (Cor., Th. 1); therefore, if wo
bisect the line AB, and draw DF, perpendicular to AB,
at the point of bisection, any circumference that can
pass through the points, A and B, must have its center
Bomewhere in the line DF. And if we draw EG at
right angles to BC at its middle point, any circumference
that can pass through the points B and C must have its
center somewhere in the line EG. Now, if the two lines,
DF and EG, meet in a common point, that point will be
a center, about which a circumference can be drawn to
pass through the three points, A, B, and C, and DF and
EG will meet in every case, unless they are parallel; but
they are not parallel, for if they were, it would follow
(Th. 5, B. I) that, since DF is intersected at right angles
by the line AB, it must also be intersected at right angles
by the line BC, having a direction different from that of
AB; which is impossible, (Th. 7, B. I).
Therefore the two lines will meet; and, with the point
H, at which they meet, as a center, and HB = HA = HQ
as a radius, one circumference, and but one, can be made
to pass through the three given points.
Hence the theorem.

THEOREM VII
If two tircles touch each other, either internally or exter-
nally, the two centers and the point of contact will be in on*
right line.
Let two circles touch each
other intern ally, as represented
at A, and conceive AB to be a
tangent at the common point A.
Now, if a line, perpendicular to
AB, be drawn from the point
A, it must pass through the
center of eacb circle, (Th. 4);
and as but one perpendicular, can be drawn to a line at a
given point in it, A, C, and D, the point of contact and
the two centers must be in one and the same line.
Next, let two circles touch each other externally, and
from the point of contact conceive the common tangent,
AB, to be drawn.
Then a line, AC, perpendicular to AB, will pass
through the center of one circle, (Th. 4), and a per-
pendicular, AD, from the same point, A, will pass
through the center of the other circle; hence, BAC and
BAD are together equal to two rigbt angles; therefore
CAD is one continued straight line, (Th. 3, B. I).
Cor. When two circles touch each other internally, the
distance between their centers is equal to the difference
of their radii; and when they touch each other extern-
ally, the distance between their centers is equal to tho
snm of their radii.
THEOREM VIII.
An angle at the circumference of any circle is measured by
one half the arj on which it stands.
In this work it is taken as an axiom that any angle
whose vertex is at the center of a circle, is measured by
GEOMETRY.

the arc on which it stands; and we now proceed to prove
that when the arcs are equal, the angle at the circumference
is equal to one half the angle at the center.
Let ACBbe an angle at the center,
and D an angle at the circumference,
and at first suppose D in a line with
AC. We are now to prove that the
angle ACB is double the angle D.
The A DCB is an isosceles triangle,
because CD=CB; and its exterior
angle, ACB, is equal to the two interior angles, D, and
CBD, (Th. 12, B. I), and since these two angles are equal
to each other, the angle ACB is double the angle at
T). But ACB is measured by the arc AB; therefore the
angle D is measured by one half the arc AB.
Next, suppose D not in a line with
A C, but at any point in the ci rcum-
ference, except on AB; produce DC
to E.
Now, by the first part of this
theorem,
the angle ECB = 2EDB,
also, ECA = 2EDA,
by subtraction, ACB = 2ADB.
But ACB is measured by the arc AB; therefore ABB
or the angle D, is measured by one half of the same arc
Hence the theorem.

THEOREM IX.
An angle in a semicircle is a right angle; an angle m a
tegment greater than a semicircle is less than a right angle;
and an angle in a segment less than a semicircle is greater
than a right angle.
If the angle ACB is in a semicircle, the opposite seg-
ment, ADB, on which it stands, is also a semicircle; and
'.he angle ACB is measured by one half the arc ADB
»i

(Th. 8); that is, one talf of 180°, or 90°, which is the
measure of a right angle.
If the angle ACB is in a segment
greater than a semicircle, then the
opposite segment is less than a semi-
circle, and the measure of the angle
is less thar one half of 180°, or less
than a right angle. If the angle
ACB is in a Segment less than a
semicircle, then the opposite segment, ADB, on which
the angle stands, is greater than a semicircle, and its half
is greater than 90°; and, consequently, the angle is
greater than a right angle.
Hence the theorem.
Cor. Angles at the circumference,
and standing on the same arc of a
circle, are equal to one another; for
all angles, as BAC, BDC, BBC, are
equal, because each is measured by
one half of the arc BC. Also, if the
angle BEC is equal to CEG, then
the arcs BC and CG are equal, be-
cause their halves are the measures of equal angles.
THEOREM X.
The sum of two opposite angles of any quadrilateral in-
ncribed in a circle, is equal to tivo right angles.
Let ACBD represent any quadri-
lateral inscribed in a circle. The
angle ACB has for its measure, one
half of the arc ADB, and the angle
ADB has for its measure, one half of
the arj A CB; therefore, by addition,
the sum of the two opposite angles at
C and D, are together measured by
one half of the whole circumference, or by 180 degrees,
= two right angles. Hence the theorem


9
GEOMETRf.
THEOREM XI.
An angle formed by a tangent and a chord is mea$ured b$
one half of the intercepted arc.
Let AB be a tangent, and AD a
chord, and A the point of contact;
then we are to prove that the angle
BAD is measured by one half of the
are AED.
From A draw the radius AC; and
fiom the center, C, draw CE per-
pendicular to AD.
The |_ BAD + \_DAC = 90°, (Th. 4).
Also, [_C+\__DAC = 90°, (Cor. 4, Th. 12, B. 1).
Therefore, by subtraction, BAD — C = 0;
by transposition, the angle BAD = C.
But the angle C, at the center of the circle, is measured
by the arc AE, the half of AED; therefore, the equal
angle, BAD, is also measured by the arc AE, the half
of AED.
Hence the theorem.

THEOREM XII.
An angle formed by a tangent and a chord, is equal to an
angle in the opposite segment of the circle.
Let AB be a tangent, and AD a
chord, and from the point of contact,
A, draw any angles, as ACD, and
AED, in the segments. Then we are
to prove that |_ BAD = |_ ACD, and
L_ GAD = l_ AED.
By Th. 11, the angle BAD is meas-
ured by one half the arc AED; and
as the angle ACD is measured by one half of the same
arc, (Th. 8), we have |_ BAD = L ACD

Again, as A EDC is a quadrilateral, inscribed in a
circle, the sum of the opposite angles,
ACD + AED = 2 right angles. (Th. 10).
Also, the sum of the angles
BAD + DAG = 2 right angles. (Th. 1, B. 1).
By subtraction (and observing that BAD has just been
proved equal to ACD), we have,
AED — DAG = 0.
Or, by transposition, AED = DAG.
Hence the theorem.
THEOREM XIII.
Arcs of the circumference of a circle intercepted by paral-
lel chords, or by a tangent and a parallel chord, are equal.
Let AB and CD be parallel chords,
and draw the diagonal, AD; now, be-
cause AB and CD are parallel, the
angle DAB = the angle ADC{Th. 6, B.
I); but the angle DAB has for its meas-
ure, one half of the arc BD; and the
angle ADC has for its measure, one half of the arc AC,
(Th. 8); and because the angles are equal, the arcs are
equal; that is, the arc BD = the arc AC.
Next, let EF be a tangent, parallel to a chord, CD, and
from the point of contact, G, draw GD.
Since EF and CD are parallel, the angle CDG ,". the
angle DGF. But the angle CDG has for its measure,
one-half of the arc CG, (Th. 8); and the angle DGF
has for its measure, one half of the arc GD, (Th. 11);
therefore, these measures of equals must be equal; that
is, the arc CG—the arc GD.
Hence, the theorem.

THEOREM XIV.

When two chords intersect each other within a circle, tht
angle thus formed is measured by one half the sum of the two
intercepted arcs.
Let AB and CD intersect each
other within the circle, forming the
two angles, E and E', with their
equal vertica" angles.
Then, we are to prove that the
angle E is measured by one half the
sum of the arcs AC and BD; and
the angle E' is measured by one half the sum of the
arcs AD and CB.
First, draw AF parallel to CD, and FD will be equal
to A C, (Th. 13); then, by reason of the parallels, [_ BAF
=^ |_ E. But the angle BAF is measured by one half
of the arc BDF; that is, one half of the arc BD plus one
half of the arc AC.
Now, as the sum of the angles E and E' is equal to
two right angles, that sum is measured by one half the
whole circumference.
But the angle E, alone, as we have just proved, is
measured by one half the sum of the arcs BD and AC;
therefore, the other angle, E', is measured by one half
the sum of the other parts of the circumference,
AD + CB.
Hence the theorem.
THEOREM XV.
When two secants intersect, or meet each other without a
rircle, the angle thus formed is measured by one half the dif
ference of the intercepted ares.
Ill
Let BE and BE be two secants
meeting at E; and draw AF parallel to
CD. Then, by reason of the parallels,
the angle E, made by the intersection
of the two secants, is equal to the
angle BAF. But the angle BAF is
measured by one half the arc BF;
that is, by one half the difference be-
tween the arcs BD and AC.
Hence the theorem.

THEOREM XVI.
The angle formed by a secant and a tangent is measured
by one half the difference of the intercepted arcs.
Let BC be a secant, and CD a tan-
gent, meeting at C. We are to prove
that the angle formed at C, is meas-
ured by one half the difference of the
arcs BD and DA.
From A, draw AE parallel to CD;
then the arc AD = the arc DE;
BD — DE = BE; and the L BAE =
\_C. But the angleBAE is measured
by one half the arc BE, (Th. 8,) that is, by one half
the difference between the arcs BD and AD; there-
fore, the equal angle, 0, is measured by one half the
arc BE.
Hence the theorem.

THEOREM XVII.
When two chords intersect each other in a circle, the rect .
angle contained by the segments of the one, will be equivahri
to the rectangle ccntained by the segments of the other.
GEOMETRY.

Let AB and CD be two chords inter-
secting each other in E. Then we are
to prove that the rectangle AE x EB =
the rectangle CE x ED.
Draw the lines AD and CB, forming
the two triangles AED and CEB. The
angles B and D are equal, because they
»re each measured by one half the arc, AC. Also the
angles A and C are equal, because each is measured by
one half the arc, DB; and l_ AED = |_ CEB, because
they are vertical angles; hence, the triangles, AED and
CEB, are equiangular and similar. But equiangular tri-
angles have their sides about the equal angles propor-
tional, (Cor. 1, Th. 17, B. II); therefore, AE and ED,
about the angle E, are proportional to CE and EB, about
the same or equal angle.
That is, AE : ED :: CE : EB;
Or, (Th. 19, B. II), AE x EB = CE x ED.
Hence the theorem.
Cor. When one chord is a diameter, and the other at rignt
angles to it, the rectangle contained, by the segments of the
diameter is equal to the square of one half the other chord;
or one half of the bisected chord is a mean proportional 6«-
tween the segments of the diameter.
For, ADxDB = FDx DE. But, if
AB passes through the center, C, at
right angles to FE, then FD = DE
(Th. 1); and in the place of FD, write
its equal, DE, in the last equation, and
we have

AD xDB = DW,
or, (Th. 3, B II), AD : DE :: DE : DB.
Put, DE = x, CD == y, and CE = R, the radius of the
circle.
10S
Then AD = R — y, and DB = R + y. With this notat-
ion,
AD x DB = DE*
becomes), {R —y)[R + y) = x*
R, — y* = x*
R' = x' + yl
or,
or,
That is, the square of the hypotenuse of the right-angle
trianjle, DCE, is equal to the sum of the squares of the otlter
two sides.
THEOREM XVIII.
If from a point without a circle, a tangent line be drawn te
the circumference, and also any secant line terminating in the
concave arc, the square of the tangent will be equivalent to ttr.
rectangle contained by the whole secant and its external seg
ment.
Let A be a point without the
circle DEQ, and let AD be a
tangent and AE any secant line.
Then we are to prove that
ACx AE = AD\
In the two triangles, ADE and
ADC, the angles ADC and AED
are equal, since each is meas-
ured by one half of the same
arc, DC; the angle A is com-
mon to the two triangles; their
third angles are therefore equal, and the triangles are
equiangular and similar.
Their homologous sides give the proportion
AE : AD :: AD : AC
whence, AE x AC = AD2
Hence the theorem.
Cor. If AE and AE are two secant lines drawn from
tl>e same point without the circumference, we shall hav«

ACx AE = ^AD2
and, ABxAF-=AD*
hence, AC x AE = AB X AF,
which, in the form of a proportion, gives
AC : AF ::AB : AE.
That is, the secants are reciprocally proportional to their e*
ternal segments.
ScnonuM. — By means of this theorem we can determine the diam-
eter of a circle, when we know the length of a tangent drawn from a
point without, and the external segment of the secant, which, drawn
from the same point, passes through the center of the circle.
Let Am be a secant passing through the center, and
Buppose the tangent AD to be 20, and the external seg-
ment, An, of the secant to be 2. Then, if D denote the
diameter, we shall have
Am = 2 + D,
whence, Am x An = 2 (2 + D) = 4 + 2D = (20)' = 400,
2D = 396, and D = 198.
If An, the height of a mountain on the earth, and AD,
the distance of the visible sea horizon, be given, we may
determine the diameter of the earth.
For example; the perpendicular height of a mountain
on the island of Teneriffe is about 3 miles, and its summit
can be seen from ships when they are known to be 154
or 155 miles distant; what then is the diameter of the
earth?
Designate, as before, the diameter by D. Thee im ».
8 + D, and Am x An = 9 -f 32>. AD = 154. 5; hence,
9 + SD = (154. 5)' = 23870. 25, from which we find D =
7953.75, which differs but little from the true diametei
of the earth.
One source of error, in this mode of computing the
diameter of the earth, is atn ospheric refraction, the e-s
planation of which does not belong here.

THEOREM XIX.
If a circle be described about a triangle, the rectangle con-
tained by two sides of the triangle is equivalent to the rectangle
contained by the perpendicular let fall on the third side, and
ths diameter of the circumscribing circle.
Let ABC be a triangle, AC and
QB, the side3, OD the perpendicular
iet fall on the base AB, and CE the
diameter of the circumscribing circle.
Then we are to prove that
ACx CB= CEx CD.
The two A's, ACD and CEB, are
equiangular, because \_A=\_E, both
being measured by the half of the arc CB; also, ABO is
a right angle, and is equal to 0BE, an angle in a semi-
circle, and therefore a right angle; hence, the third angle,
ACD=[_BCE, (Th. 12, Cor. 2,B. I). Therefore, (Cor. 1,
Th. 17, B. II),
AC: CD :: CE: CB
and, ACx BC= CE X CD.
Hence the theorem; if a circle, etc.
Cor. The continued product of three sides of a triangle is
equal to twice the area of the triangle into the diameter of it*
circumscribing circle.
Multiplying both members of the last equation by AB,
we have,
AC x BC x AB = CE x (AB x CD).
But CE is the diameter of the circle, and (AB X CD)
= twice the area of the triangle;
Therefore, AC x CB x AB= diameter multiplied
dv twice the area of the triangle

THEOREM Xi.
The square of a line bisecting any angle of a triangle, t»
gether with the rectangle of the segments into which it cuts the
opposite side, is equivalent to the rectangle of the two side*
including the bisected angle.
Let ABC be a triangle, and CD a
\i-iC bisecting the angle C. Then
we arc to prove that
CD' + (AD x DB) = ACx CB.
The two A's, ACE and CDB, are
equiangular, because the angles E
and B are equal, both being in the
same segment, and the [_ ACE = BCD, by hypothesis.
Therefore, (Th. 17, Cor. 1, B. II),
AC : CE:: CD : CB.
But it is obvious that CE = CD + DE, and by substi-
tuting this value of CE, in the proportion, we have,
AC: CD + DE :: CD : CB.
By multiplying extremes and means,
CD* + (DE x CD) *=*ACx CB.
But by (Th. 17),
DE x CD = AD x DB,
and substituting, we have,
CD* + (AD x DB) - AC x CB.
llence the theorem.'
THEOREM XXI.
The rectangle contained by the two diagonals of any quad-
r&iiteral inscribed in a circle, is equivalent to the sum. of the
twe rectangles contained by the opposite sides of the quadri-
lateral.
Let ABCD be a quadrilateral inscribed in a circle;
then wo are to prove that
ACx BD = (AB x DC) + (AD x BC).
From C, draw CE, making the angle DCE equal to

m
the angle A CB; and as the angle BAC is equal to tha
angle CDE, both being in the same seg-
ment, therefore, the two triangles, DEC
and ABC, are equiangular, and we have
(Th. 17, Cor. 1, B. II),
AB : AC :: DE : DC (1)
The two A's, ADC and BEC, are
equiangular; for the \_DAC= \_EBC,
both being in the same segment; and the |_ DCA ™
\_ECB, for DCE = BCA; to each of these add the ar gle
EGA, and DCA == ECB; therefore, (Th. 17, Cor. 1,
B.H),
AD : AC :: BE : BC (2).
By multiplying the extremes and means in proportions
(!) and (2), and adding the resulting equations, we have,
(AB x DC) + (AD x BC) = (BE + BE) x AC
But, DE + BE = .BD; therefore,
(AB x DC) + (AD x BC) = AC x BB.
Cor. "Wbon two adjacent sides of the quadrilateral are
equal, as AB and BC, then the resulting equation is,
(AB x BC) + (AB x AD) = AC x BD;
or, AB x (DC + AD) = AC x BD;
or, AB : AC :: BD : DC+ AD.
That is, one of the two equal sides of the quadrilateral
is to the adjoining diagonal, as the transverse diagonal is to
the sum of the two unequal sides.
THEOREM XXII.
If two chords intersect each other at right angles in a cir-
tte, the sum of the squares of the four segments thus formed
is equivalent to the square of the diameter of the circle.
Let AB and CD bo two chords, intersecting eacn
other at right angles. Draw BF parallel to ED, and
draw DF and AF. Now, we are to prove that
Alf +~W +~EO' r ED* -~AF\
GEOMETRY.

As BF is parallel to ED, ABF is a
right augle, and therefore AFis a diam-
eter, (Th. 9). Also, hecause BF is
parallel to CD, CB = DF, (Th. 13).
Because CEB is a right angle,
W + EB'=CB' = DF*.
Because AED is a right angle,
AE* +^D' = AF.
A.d<ling these two equations, we have,
~Q~ff + EB' + AE* +~E1? = DF' + AW.
But, as AF u a diameter, and ADF a right angle,
(Th.9), _
DF + AD2 = AF';
therefore, CE* + EB* + AF? + ED* = ~AF.
Hence the theorem.
Scholium.— If two chords intersect each other at right angles, in a
circle, and their opposite extremities be joined, the two chords thug
formed may make two sides of a right-angled triangle, of which the
diameter of the circle is the hypotenuse.
For, AD is one of these chords, and CB is the other; and we have
ghown that CB = DF; and AD and DF are two sides of a right-
angled triangle, of which AF is the hypotenuse; therefore, AD and
CB may be considered the two sides of a right-angled triangle, and
AF its hypotenuse.
THEOREM XXIII.
If two secants intersect each other at right angles, the sum
of theii squares, increased by the sum of the squares of th*
two segments without the circle, will be equivalent to the squart
\f the diameter of the circle.
Let AE and ED be two secants in-
tersecting at right angles at the point
E. From B, draw BF parallel to CD,
and draw AF and AD. Now we are to
prove that
EAl H ED* t EBr +^(f = A~F.

Became BF is parallel to CD, ABF is a light angle,
and consequently AF is a diameter, and BC=DF; and
because AF is a diameter, ADF is a right angle. At
AED is a right angle,
AE*+EDy=AD'
Also, EB'+EC^BC^DF*
By addition, ZE'+W+^'+J^ ^^V^^Aj'
Hence the theorem.
THEOREM XXIV.
If perpendiculars be drawn bisecting the three sides of a
triangle, they will, when sufficiently produced, meet in a cont-
mon point.
The three angular points of a triangle are not in the
name straight line; consequently one circumference,
and hut one, may be made to pass through them.
Conceive a triangle to he thus circumscribed. The
sides of the triangle then become chords of the circum-
scribing circle. Now if these sides be bisected, and at the
points of bisection perpendiculars be drawn to the sides,
each of these perpendiculars will pass through the center
of the circle (Th. 1, Cor.); and the perpendiculars will
therefore meet in a common point.
Hence the theorem.
THEOREM XXV.
The sums of the opposite sides of a quadrilateral circum-
taribing a circle are equal.
Let ABCD be a quadrilateral circumscribed about a
circle, whose center is O. Then we are to prove that
AB + DC=AD + BC.
From the center of the circle draw OF and OF to
the points of contact of the sides AB and BC. Then,
10
GEOMETRY.
the two right-angled triangles, OEB and OFB, are equal,
because they have the hypotenuse
OB common, and the side OF =
OE; therefore, BE = BF, (Cor.,
Th. 39, B. I).
In like manner we can prove
that
AE=AH, CF= Oa, andDG=DK
Now, taking the equation BE-
EF, and adding to its first mem-
ber CG, and to its second the
equal line OF. we have,
BE+CG = BF+CF (1)
The equation AE=AR, by adding to its first member
DG-, and to the second the equal line, DR, gives
AE+DG=AH+DH (2)
By the addition of (1) and (2), we find that
BE + AE+CG + DG = BF + CF+ AE+ DH.
That is, AB + CD=BO + AD.
Hence the theorem.

Ill
BOOK IV.
PROBLEMS
In this section, we have, in most instances, merely
Bhown the construction of the problem, and referred to
the theorem or theorems that the student may use, to
prove that the object is attained by the construction.
In obscure and difficult problems, however, we have
gone through the demonstration as though it were a
theorem.
PROBLEM I.
To bisect a given finite straight lint.
Let AB be the given line, and from
its extremities, A and B, with any
radius greater than one half of AB,
(Postulate 3), describe arcs, cutting A —
each other in n and m. Draw the line
nm; and C, where it cuts AB, will be
the middle of the given line.
Proof, (B. I, Th. 18, Sch. 2).
PROBLEM II.
To bisect a given angle.
Let ABC be the given angle. "With any
radius, and B as a center, describe the arc
A C. Prom A and C, as centers, with a
radius greater than one half of AC, de-
scribe arcs, intersecting in n; join B and n;
the joining line will bisect the given angle.
Proof, (Th. 21, B. I).
X
-e
X
m

GEOMETRY.

A n
m B
Proofi
PROBLEM III.
From a given point in a given line, to draw a perpendicular
to that line.
Let AB be the given line, and
C the given point. Take n and m,
at equal distances on opposite sides
of C; and with the points m and
n, as centers, and any radius
greater than nC or mC, describe
arcs cutting each other in S. Draw
SC, and it will be the perpendicular required.
(B. I, Th. 18, Sch. 2).
The following is another method,
which is preferable, when the given
point, C, is at or near the end of the
line.
Take any point, O, which is mani-
festly one side of the perpendicular,
as a center, and with OC as a radius, describe a circum-
ference, cutting AB in m and C. Draw mn through Ce
points m and O, and meeting the arc again in n; mn is
then a diameter to the circle. Draw Cn, and it will be
the perpendicular required. Proof, (Th. 9, B. LIT).

A »f
PROBLEM IV.
From a given point without a line, to draw a perpendicular
to that line.
Let AB be the given line, and C
the given point. From C draw any
oblique line, as Cn. Find the mid-
dle point of Cn by Problem 1, and
with that point, as a center, describe
a semicircle, having Cn as a diam-
eter. From m, where this semi-cir-
cumference cuts AB, draw Cm, and it will be the perpen
dicular required. Proof, (Th. 9, B. ILT).

118
PROBLEM V.
At a given point in a line, to construct an angle equal to
a given angle.
Let A be the point given in the line
AB, and DCE the given angle.
With C as a center, and any radius,
CE, draw the arc ED.
"With A as a center, and the radius
A F= CE, describe an indefinite arc; and
with F as a center, and FG as a radius,
equal to ED, describe an arc, cutting the
other arc in Q-, and draw AG-; (Ml* will be the angle
required. Proof, (Th. 2, B. LTI).

PROBLEM VI.
From a given point, to draw a line parallel to a given line.
Let A be the given point, and BC the
given line. Draw A C, making an angle,
ACB; and from the given point, A, in
the line A C, draw the angle CAD =
ACB, by Problem 5.
Since AD and BC make the same angle with AC, thev
are, therefore, parallel, (B. I, Th. 7, Cor. 1).

PROBLEM VII.
To divide a given line into any number of equal parts.
Let AB represent the given
line, aud let it be required to di-
vide it into any number of equal
parts, say five. From one end of
the line A, draw AD, indefinite
in both length and position. Take
any convenient distance in the di-

10* H
GEOMETRY.
viders, as Aa, and set it off on the line AD, thus making
the parts Aa, ab, be, etc., equal. Through the last point,
e, draw EB, and through the points a, b, c, and d, draw
parallels to eB, by Problem 6; these parallels will divide
the line a3 required. Proof, (Th. 17, Book LI).
PROBLEM VIII.
To find a third proportional to two given lines.
Let AB and A C be any two lines.
Place them at any angle, and draw
CB. On the greater line, AB, take
AD = AC, and through D, draw
DE parallel to BC; AE is the third
proportional required.
Proof, (Th. 17, B. LI).

PROBLEM IX.
To find a fourth proportional to three given lines.
L^t AB, AC, AD, represent the
»hrc2 given lines. Place the first
two at any angle, as BAC, and draw
BC On AB place AD, and from
the point D, draw DE parallel to
BC, by Problem 6; AE will be the
fourth proportional required.
Proof, (Th. 17, B. II).

PROBLEM X.
T< find the- middle, or mean proportional, between two given
Uneg
115


Place AB and BC in one right
.iue, and on AC, as a diameter, de-
scribe a semicircle, (Postulate 3),
and from the point B, draw BD at
right angles to AC, (Problem 3);
BD is the mean proportional re-
quired.
>>roof, (B. EI, Th. 17, Cor.).
PROBLEM XI.
To find the center of a given circle,
Draw any two chords in the given-cir-
cle, as AB and CD, and from the middle
points, m and n, draw perpendiculars to
AB and CD; the point at which these
two perpendiculars intersect will be the
center of the circle.
Proof, (B. HI, Th. 1, Cor.).
PROBLEM XII.
To draw a tangent to a given circle, from a given
either in or without the circumference of the circle.
When the given point is in the cir-
cumference, as A, draw the radius AC,
and from the point A, draw AB per-
pendicular to AC; AB is the tangent
required.
Proof, (Th. 4, B. ITI).
"When the given point is without
the circle, as A, draw AC to the
center of the circle; on AC, as a
diameter, describe a semicircle; and
from B, where the semi-circumfer-
ence cuts the given circumference,
draw AB, and it will be tangent to the circle.
Proof, (Th. 9, B. LIT), and, (Th. 4, B. HI).

GEOMETRY.

PROBLEM XIII.
On a given line, to describe a segment of a circle, that shah
;ontain an angle equal to a given angle.
Let AB be the given
line, and C the given
angle. At the ends of
the given line, form angles
DAB, DBA, each equal
to the given angle, G.
Then draw AE and BE
perpendiculars to AD and BD; and with E as a center,
and EA, or EB, as a radius, describe a circle; then AFB
will be the segment required, as any angle F, made in
it, will be equal to the given angle, C.
Proof, (Th. 11, B. HI), and (Th. 8, B. HI).
PROBLEM XIV.
From any given circle to cut a segment, that shall contain
a given angle.
Let C be the given angle. Take
any point, as A, in the circumfer-
ence, and from that point draw the
tangent AB; and from the point
A, in the line AB, construct the /
angle BAD = C, (Problem 5), and c^
AED is the segment required.
Proof, (Th. 11, B. LTI), and (Th. 8, B. III).
PROBLEM XV.
To construct an equilateral triangle on a given straight li
Let AB be the given line; from ('
the extremities A and B, as centers,
with a radius equal to AB, describe arcs
cutting each other at C. From C, the
point of intersection, draw CA and CB;
ABC will be the triangle required. & E
The construction is a sufficient demonstration. Or, (Ax. 1).



PROBLEM XVI
To construct a triangle, having its three sides equal to three
jiven lines, any two of which shall be greater than the third.
Let AB, CD, and EF, represent the E p
xh ree lines. Take any one of them, as c D
A B, to be one side of the triangle. From
B, as a center, with a radius equal to CD,
describe an arc; and from A, as a center,
with a radius equal to EF, describe an-
other arc, cutting the former in n. Draw
An and Bn, and AnB will be the A re-
quired. Proof, (Ax. 1).
PROBLEM XVII.
To describe a square on a given line.
Let AB be the given line; and from the
extremities, A and B, draw AC and BD per-
pendicular to AB. (Problem 3.)
From i, as a center, with AB as radius,
strike an arc across the perpendicular at C;
and from C draw CD parallel to AB; ACDB
is the square required. Proof, (Th. 26, B. I).
PROBLEM XVIII.
To construct a rectangle, or a parallelogram, whose adja
sent sides are equal to_ two given lines.
Let AB and AC be the two given A c
lines. From the extremities of one A g
line, draw perpendiculars to that line, as in the last prob-
lem; and from these perpendiculars, cut off portions
equal to the other line; and, by a parallel, complete the
figure
When the figure is to be a parallelogram, with oblique
angles, describe the angles by Problem 5. Proof, (Tb
26, B. I).
PROBLEM XIX.
To describe a rectangle that shall be equivalent to a given
square, and have a side equal to a given line.
Let AB be a side of the given square, c D
and CD one side of the required recfc- A B
angle. E F
Find the third proportional, EF, to CD and AB, (Prob-
lem 8). Then we shall have
CD : AB :: AB : EF.
Construct a rectangle with the two given lines, CD
and EF, (Problem 18), and it will be equal to the given
square, (Th. 3, B. II).
PROBLEM XX.
To construct a square that shall be equivalent to the differ
ence of two given squares.
Let A represent a side of the greater of two given
squares, and B a side of the less square.
On A, as a diameter, describe a
semicircle, and from one extremity,
n, as a center, with a radius equal to
B, describe an arc, and, from the
point where it cuts the circumference, —-—
draw mp and np ; mp is the side of
a square, which, wheu constructed,
(Problem 17), will be equal to the difference of the two
given squares. Proof (Th. 9, B. Ill, and Th. 39, B. I.)
To construct a square equivalent to the sum of two
given squares, we have only to draw through any point
two lines at right angles, and lay oft' on one a distance
equal to the side of one of the squares, and on the other

119
a distance equal to the side of the other. The straight
*me connecting the extremities of these lined will be the
Bide of the required square, (Th. 39, B. I).
M>-
PROBLEM XXI.
To divide a given line into two parts, which shall be in th*
ratic of two other given lines.
Let AB be the line A ~""~'B
to be divided, and M
and N the lines hav-
ing the ratio of the
required parts of AB.
From the extremity
A draw AD, making
any angle with AB,
and take AC = M,
and CD = N. Join
the points D and B
by a straight line,
and through Cdraw
CG parallel to BD.
Then will the point G divide the line AB into pa la
having the required ratio. (Proof, Th. 17, B. II).
Or, having drawn AD, lay off AC = M, and through
B draw B V parallel to AD, making it equal to N, and
join Cand Vby a line cutting AB in the point Gr.
Then the two triangles ACQ and GBV are equiangu-
lar and similar, and their homologous sides give tb<9
proportion,
AG : GB :: AC : BV :: M: N
The lite AB is therefore divided, at the point G, into
parts which are , the ratio of the lines M and N.

GEOMETRY.

PROBLEM XXII.
To divide a given line into any number of parts, having to
each other the ratios of other given lines.
Let AB be the given
line to be divided, and
M, N, P, etc., the lines
to which the parts of
A~B are to be propor-
tional.
Through the point A
draw an indefinite line, making, with AB, any conve-
nient angle, and on this line lay off from A the lines M,
N, P, etc., successively. Join the extremity of the last
line to the point B by a straight line, parallel to which
draw other lines through the points of division of the
indefinite line, and they will divide the line AB at the
points C, D, etc., into the required parts. (Proof, Th. 17,
B. II).
PROBLEM XXIII.
To construct a square that shall be to a given square, a* a
line, M, to a line, N.
Place If and N in a line, and
on the sum describe a semicir-
cle. From the point where the
two lines meet, draw a perpen-
dicular to meet the circumfer-
ence in A. Draw Am and An,
and produce them indefinitely. On An or An produced,
take AO= to the side of the given square ; and from G,
draw CB parallel to mn; AB is a side of the required
square.
Foi, J^' : An~':: IF :~AC\ (Th. 17, B. LT).
Also, Am :An::M :2T, (Th. 25, B.H).
Therefore, A~& :AO'::M :N, (Th. 6, B. II).

12]
PROBLEM XXIV.
To cut a line into evtreme and mean ratio; that is, so that
the whole line shall be to the greater part, as that greater part
is to the less.
Remark. — Tho gometrical solution of this problem is not imme-
diately apparent, but it is at once suggested by the form of the equa-
tion, which a simple r.lgebraic analysis of its conditions leads to.
Represent the line to be divided by 2a, the greater
part by x, and consequently the other, or less part, by
2a — x.
Now, the given line and its two parts are required, to
satisfy the following proportion:
2a : x :: x : 2a — x
whence, x2 = 4a2 — 2ax
By transposition, x' + 2ax = 4a2 = (2a)2
[f we add a2 to both members of this equation, we
shall have,
x2 + 2ax + a2 = (2a)2 + a2
or, (x +af = (2a)2 + a2
This last equation indicates that the lines represented
by (x + a), 2a, and a, are the three sides of a right-
angled triangle, of which (x + a) is the hypotenuse, the
given line, 2a, one of the sides, and its half, a, the other.
Therefore, let AB represent the
given line, and from the extremity, B,
draw BC at right angles to AB, and
make it equal to one half of AB.
With C, as a center, and radius CB,
describe a circle. Draw AC and pro-
duce it to F. "With A as a center
and AD as a radius, describe the arc
DE; this arc will divide the line AB,
a,3 required.
We are now to prove that
AB : AE :: AE : EB

11
By Th. 18, B. Ill, we have,
AF x AB = AB*
or, AF : AB :: AB : AB
Thee, (by Cor., Th. 8, Book II), we may have,
{AF—AB) : AB :: (AB — AD) : AD
Since CB = \AB = \DF; therefore, AB = LF
Hence, AF — AB = AF— DF = AD = AE.
Therefore, AE : AB :: EB : AE
By taking the extremes for the means, we have,
AB : AE :: ^li' : EB.
PROBLEM XXV.
To describe an isosceles triangle, having its two equal angle*
each double the third angle, and the equal sides of any given
length.
Let AB he one of the equal sides of
the required triangle; and from the
point A, with the radius AB, describe
an arc, BD.
Divide the line AB into extreme acd
mean ratio by the last problem, and sup-
pose Cthe point of division, and AC the
greater segment.
From the point B, with A C, the greater segment, as e
radius, describe another arc, cutting the arc BB in D
Draw BD, DO, and DA. The triangle ABD is the trl
angle required.
As AC = BD, by construction; and as AB is to At,
as A C is to BC, by the division of AB; therefore
AB : BB :: BD : BC
Now, as the terms of this proportion are the sides ot
the two triangles about the common angle, B, it follows,
Cor. 2, Th. 17, B. II), that the two triangles, ABB and

BDC, are equiangular; but the triangle ABD is isos-
celes; therefore, BDO is isosceles also, and BD = DC;
but BD = AC: hence, DC = AC, (Ax. 1), and the tri-
angle A CD is isosceles, and the |_ CDA = |_ A. But
the exterior angle, BCD = CDA + A, (Th. 12, B. I).
Therefore, |_BCD, or its equal LB = L C#^ + L ^ 5 oi
the angle B = 2|_J.. Hence, the triangle ABD has each
of its angles, at the base, double of the third angle.
Scholium.—As the two angles, at the base of the triangle ABD, are
equal, and each is double the angle A, it follows that the sum of the
three angles is Jive times the angle A. But, as the three angles of every
triangle are always equal to two right angles, or 180°, the angle A
must be one fifth of two right angles, or 36°; therefore, BD is a chord
of 36°, when AB is a radius to the circle; and ten such chords wonld
aitend exactly round the circle, or would form a decagon.
PROBLEM XXVI.
Within a given circle to inscribe a triangle, equiangular to
a given triangle.
Let ABC be the circle, and
abc the given triangle. From
any point, as A, draw ED tan-
gent to the given circle at A,
(Problem 12).
From the point A, in the line
AD, lay oif the angle DAC —
the angle b, (Problem 5), and the angle EAB = the angle
c, and draw BC.
The triangle ABC'is inscribed in the circle; it is equi-
angular to the triangle abc, and hence it is the triangle
required.
Proof, (Th. 12, B. nil.

GEOMETRY.

PROBLEM XXVII.
To inscribe a regular pentagon in a given cirjle.
1st. Describe an isosceles tri-
angle, abc, having each of the
equal angles, t and e, double the
third angle, a, by Problem 25.
2d, Inscribe the triangle,
A BC, in the given circle, equi-
angular to the triangle abc, by
Problem 26; then each of the angles, B and C, is double
the angle A.
3d. Bisect the angles B and C, by the lines BD and
CE, (Problem 2), and draw AE, EB, CD, DA; and the
figure AEBCD is the pentagon required.
By construction, the angles BAC, ABD, DBC, BCE,
ECA, are all equal; therefore, (B. Ill, Th. 9, Cor.), the
arcs, BC, AD, DC, AE, and EB, are all equal; and if
the arcs are equal, the chords AE, EB, etc., are equal.
Scholium.—The arc subtended by one of the sides of a regular pen-
300°
tagon, being one fifth of the whole circumference, is equal to ——=72°'
PROBLEM XXVIII.
To inscribe a regular hexagon in a circle.
D aw any diameter of the circle, as
AB. and from one extremity, B, draw
BB equal to BC, the radius of the
circle The arc, BD, will be one sixth
part of the whole circumference, and
the chord B D will be a side of the regu-
lar polygon of six sides.
In the A CBD, as CB = CD, and BD = CB by con-
struction, the A is equilateral, and of course equiangular.
fAncc the sum of the three angles of every A is equal
to two right angles, or to 180 degrees, when the

three angles are equal to one another, each one of them
must be 60 degrees; but 60 degrees is a sixth yart of
360 degrees, the whole number of degrees in a circle;
therefore, the arc whose chord is equal to the radius, is a
sixth part of the circumference; and, if a polygon of siz
equal sides be inscribed in a circle, each side will b«
equal to the radius.
Scholium. — Hence, as BD is the chord of 60°, and equal to EC 3f
CD, we say generally, that the chord of CO0 is equal to radius.
PROBLEM XXIX.
To find the side of a regular polygon of fifteen sides, which
may be inscribed in any given circle.
Let CB be the radius of the given
circle; divide it into extreme and
mean ratio, (Problem 24), and make
BD equal to CE, the greater part;
then BD will be a side of a regular
polygon of ten sides, (Scholium to
Problem 25). Draw BA = to CB, and
it will be a side of a polygon of six sides. Draw DA,
and that line must be the side of a polygon which cor-
responds to the arc of the circle expressed by J less Jn,
of the whole circumference; or \ — to = so = ts , *na^
is, one-fifteenth of the whole circumference; or, DA is
a side of a regular polygon of 15 sides. But the 15th
part of 360° is 24° ; hence the side of a regular inecnDed
oolygon of fifteen sides is the chord of an arc of 24°.
PROBLEM XXX.
In a given circle to inscribe a regular polygon of any num
ber of sides, and then to. circumscribe the circle by a similar
polygon.

* 11*
GEOMETRi.

Let the circumference of the circle, whose cetter is C.
be divided into any number of equal arcs, as arnb, bnc,
cod, etc.; then will the polygon abode, etc., bounded by
the chords of these arcs, be regu-
lar and inscribed; and the poly-
gon ABCDE, etc., bounded by
the tangents to these arcs at their
middle points m, n, o, etc, be a
similar circumscribed polygon.
First. — The polygon abode,
etc., is equilateral, because its
sides are the chords of equal
arcs of the same circle, (Th. 5, B. Ill); and it is equi
angular, because its angles are inscribed in equal segments
of the same circle, (Th. 8, B. III). Therefore the poly-
gon is regular, (Def. 14, B. Ill), and it is inscribed, since
the vertices of all its angles are in the circumference of
the circle, (Def. 13, B. EI).
Second.—If we draw the radius to the point of tangency
of the side AB of the circumscribed polygon, this radius
is perpendicular to AB, (Th. 4, B. Ill), and also to the
chord ab, (B. Ill, Th. 1, Cor.); hence AB is parallel to ab,
and for the same reason BC is parallel to bo; therefore
the angle ABC is equal to the angle abe, (Th. 8, B. I).
In like manner we may prove the other angles of the
circumscribed polygon, each equal to the corresponding
angle of the inscribed polygon. These polygons are
therefore mutually equiangular.
Again, if we draw the radii Om and On, and the line Oft?
the two A's thus formed are right-angled,, the one at »
and the other at n, the side OB is common and Om ia
equal to On; hence the difference of the squares described
on OB and Om is equivalent to the difference of the
squares described on OB and On. But the first difference
is equivalent to the square described on Bm, and the
Becond diffetence is equivalent to the square described
on Bn; hence Bm is equal to Bn, and the two right-
angled triangles are equal, (Th. 21, B. I), the angle BOm
opposite the side Bm being equal to the angle BOn, op-
posite the equal side Bn. The line OB therefore passe*
through the middle point of the arc mbn ; but because m
and n are the middle points of the equal arcs amb and
bnc, the vertex of the angle aba is also at the middle
point of the arc mbn. Hence the line OB, drawn from
the center of the circle to the vertex of the angle ABO,
also passes through the vertex of the angle abc. By pre-
cisely the same process of reasoning, we may prove that
OC passes through the point c, OI) through the point d,
etc.; hence the lines joining the center with the vertices
of the angles of the circumscribed polygon, pass through
the vertices of the corresponding angles of the inscribed
polygon ; and conversely, the radii drawn to the vertices
of the angles of the inscribed polygon, when produced,
pass through the vertices of the corresponding angles
of the circumscribed polygon.
Now, since ab is parallel to AB, the similar A's abO
and ABO, give the proportion
Ob : OB :: ab : AB,
and the A's,5c0 and BCO, give the proportion
Ob : OB :: bo : BC.
As these two proportions have an antecedent and con-
sequent, the same in both, we have, (Th. G, B. II),
ab : AB :: be : BC.
In like manner we may prove that
bo : BC :: cd : CD, etc., etc.
The two polygons are therefore not only equiangular,
but the sides about the equal angles, taken in the same
order, are proportional; they are therefore similar, (De£
16. B. II).
Cor. 1. To inscribe any regular polygon in a circle, we
have only to divide the circumference into as many equal
parts as the polygon is to have sides, and to draw the
chords of the arcs; hence, in a given circle, it is possible
to inscribe regular polygons of any number of sides
whatever. Having constructed any such polj'gon in a
given circle, it is evident, that by changing the radios ot
the circle without changing the number of sides of the
polygon, it may be made to represent any regular poly-
gon of the same name, and it will still be inscribed in a
circle. As this reasoning is applicable to regular poly-
gons of whatever number of sides, it follows, that any
regular polygon may be circumscribed by the circumference,
of a circle.
Cor. 2. Since ab, be, cd, etc., are equal chords of the
same circle, they are at the same distance from the
center, (Th. 3, B. Ill); hence, if with O as a center, and
Ot, the distance of one of these chords from that point,
as a radius, a circumference be described, it will touch
all of these chords at their middle points. It follows,
therefore, that a circle may be inscribed within any regular
polygon.
Scholium.—The center, 0, of the circle, may be taken as the center
of both the inscribed and circumscribed polygons; and the angle
AOB, included between lines drawn from the center to the extremities
of one of the sides AB, is called the angle at tlie center. The perpen-
dicular drawn from the center to one of the sides is called the Aputhcm
of the polygon.
Cor. 3. The angle at the center of any regular polygon
is equal to four right angles divided by the number of
sides of the polygon. Thus, if n be the number of sides
of the polygon, the angle at the center will be expressed
, 360°
by
n
Cor. 4. If the arcs subtended by the sides of anj
regular inscribed polygon be bisected, aud the chorda
of these semi-arcs be drawn, we shall have a regular
inscribed polygon of double the number of sides. Thus,
from the square we may pass successively to regular
inscribed polygons of 8, 16, 32, etc., sides. To get the
corresponding circumscribed polygons, we have merely
to draw tangents at the middle points of the arcs sub-
tended by the sides of the inscribed polygons.
Cor. 5. It is plain that each inscribed polygon is but
a part of one having twice the number of sides, while
each circumscribed polygon is but a part of one having
onp h«lf the number of sides
GEOMETET.
BOOK V.
ON THE PROPORTIONALITIES AND MEASUREMENT
OF POLYGONS AND CIRCLES.

PROPOSITION I. —THEOREM.
The area of any circle is equal to the product of its radiun
by one half of its circumference.
Let CA be the radius of a circle,
and AB a very small portion of its
circumference; then ACB will be a
sector. "We may conceive the whole
circle made up of a great number of
such sectors; and when each sector
is very small, the arcs AB, BD, etc.,
each one taken separately, may be regarded as light
lines ; and the sectors CAB, CBD, etc., will be triangles.
The triangle, ACB, is measured by the product of tho
base, AC, multiplied into one half the altitude, AB, (Th.
33, Book I); and the triangle BCD is measured by the pro-
duct of BC, or its equal, AC, into one half BD; then the
area, or measure of the two triangles, or sectors, is the
product of AC, multiplied by one half of AB plus one
half of BD, and so on for all the sectors that compose
the circle; therefore, the area of the circle is measured
by the product of the radius into one half the circumference.
131
PROPOSITION II. —THEOREM.

Circumferences of circles are to one another as their radii,
and their areas are to one another as the squares of their
radii.
Let CA be the radius of a circle,
and Ca the radius of another circle.
Conceive the two circles co be so
f laced upon each other so as to have
a common center.
Let AB be such a certain definite
portion of the circumference of the
larger circle, that m times AB will represent that cir-
cumference.
But whatever part AB is of the greater circumference,
the same part ah is of the smaller; for the two circles
have the same number of degrees, and are of course sus-
ceptible of division into the same number of sectors.
But by proportional triangles we have,
CA : Ca :: AB : ab
Multiply the last couplet by m, (Th. 4, B. LT), and we
have
CA : Ca :: m.AB : m.ab.
That is, the radius of one circle is to the radius of another,
as the circumference of the one is to the circumference of the
other.
To prove the second part of the theorem, let C repre-
sent the area of the larger circle, and c that of the
eiaaller; now, whatever part the sector CAB is of the
circle C, the sector Cab is the corresponding part of the
circle c.
That is,
C: c:
: CAB : Cab,
but,
CAB: Cab:
: (CAf : (Caf,
(Th. 20, B. II).
Therefore,
C:c:
: (CAf : (Caf,
(Th. 6, B. U).
That is, the area of one circle is tc the area of another, at
the square of the radius of the one is to the square of th*
radius of the other.
Hence the theorem.
Cor. If C: c :: (CAf :(Caf,
then, C : c ::4(CAf : 4(Ca)\
But 4 (CAf is the square of the diameter of the laigar
circle, and 4 (Caf is the square of the diameter of the
smaller. Denoting these diameters respectively by D
and d, we have,
C : o :: W : d\
That is, the areas of any two circles are to each other, at
the squares of their diameters.
Scholium. — As the circumference of eTery circle, great or small, is
assumed to be the measure of 3G0 degrees, if we conceive the circum-
ference to be divided into 3G0 equal parts, and one such part repre-
sented by AB on one circle, or ab on the other, .4.8 and ao will be very
near straight lines, and the length of such a line as AB will be greater
or less, according to the radius of the circle; but its absolute length
cannot be determined until we know the absolute relation between the
diameter of a circle and its circumference.
PROPOSITION III. —THEOREM.
Wlten the radius of a circle is unity, its area and semv
circumference are numerically equal.
Let R represent the radius of any circle, and the Greek
letter, *, the half circumference of a circle whose radius
is unity. Since circumferences are to each other as their
radii, when the radius is R, the semi-circumference will
be expressed by *R.
Let m denote the area of the circle of which R is the
radius; then, by Theorem 1, we shall have, for the area
of this circle, *R2 = m, which, when R = 1, reduces to
*. = m.
This equation is to be interpreted as meaning that the
semi-circumference contains its unit, the radius, as many
times as the area of the circle contains its unit, the
square of the radius.
Remark. — The celebrated problem of squaring the circle has for ita
object to find a line, the square on whicii will be equivalent to the area
of a circle of a given diameter; or, in other words, it proposes to find
the ratio between the area of a circle and the square of its radius.
An approximate solution only of this problem has been as yet dis-
severed, but the approximation is so close that the esact solution it
&.: longer a question of any practical importance.
PROPOSITION IV. —PROBLEM.
Given, the radius of a circle unity, to find the areas of
regular inscribed and circumscribed hexagons.
Conceive a circle described with the radius CA, and in
this circle inscribe a regular polygon of six sides (Prob
28, B. IV), and each side will be
equal to the radius CA; hence,
the whole perimeter of this poly-
gon must be six times the ra-
dius of the circle, or three times
the diameter. The chord bd is
bisected by CA. Produce Cb and Od, and through the
point A, draw BD parallel to bd; BD will then be a 3ide
of a regular polygon of six sides, circumscribed about
the circle, and we can compute the length of thia line,
BD, as follows: The two triangles, Cbd and CBD, are
equiangular, by construction; therefore,
Ca : bd :: CA : BD.
Now, let us assume CA = Cd = the radius of the
uircla, equal unity; then bd = 1, and the preceding pro-
portion becomes
Ca : 1 :: 1 : BD (1)
In the right-angled triangle Cad, we have,
(Cay + (ad)* = (Cd)\ (Th. 39, B. I).
That is, (Qay + l=1, because Cd=\, and ad=±,

12
Whence, Ca = \ V3. This value of Ca, substituted in
proportion (1), gives
|v/3 : 1 :: 1 : BD; hence, BD = ^|. *
But the area of the triangle Cbd is equal to bd (= 1,)
multiplied by JCa = \ ^3; and the area of the triangle
CBD is equal to BD multiplied by %CA.
Whence, area, Cbd = \ ^3,
and, area, CBD = ,-,.
v 3
But the area of the inscribed polygon is six times that
of the triangle Cbd, and the area of the circumscribed
polygon is six times that of the triangle CBD.
Let the area of the inscribed polygon be represented
by p, and that of the circumscribed polygon by P.
Then p = 1^3, andi» f = ?^J = 2^B.
r 2' v/3 v/3
3 3
Whence;? : P :: £^3 : 2^3 :: ^ : 2 :: 3 : 4 :: 9 : 12
p = 1^3 = 2.59807621. P = 2^3 = 3.46410161.
Now, it is obvious that the area of the circle must be
included between the areas of these two polygons, and
not far from, but somewhat greater than, their half sum,
which is 3.03 +; and this may be regarded as the first
approximate value of the area of the circle to the radius
unity.
PROPOSITION V. —PROBLEM.
Given, the areas of two regular polygons of the same num
her of sides, the one inscribed in and the other circumscribed
about, the same circle, to find the areas of regular inscribed and
circumscribed polygons of double the number of sides.
~Lvtp represent the area of the given inscribed polygon,
and P that of the circumscribed polygon of the same
136
numbei of sides. Also denote by p' the area of the
inscribed polygon of double the number of sides, and by
P' that of the corresponding circumscribed polygon.
Now, if the arc KAL be some exact part, as one-fourth,
one fifth, etc., of the circumference of the circle, of which
0 is the center and CA the radius, then will KL be the
Bide of a regular inscribed polygon, and the triangle
KCL will be the same part of the whole polygon that
the arc KAL is of the whole circumference, and the
triangle CDB will be a like part of the circumscribed
polygon. Draw CA to the point of tangency, and bisect
the angles ACB and ACJD, by the lines CG and CE, and
draw KA.
It is plain that the triangle
ACK is an exact part of the
inscribed polygon of double the
number of sides, and that the
A ECG is a like part of the cir-
cumscribed polygon of double
the number of sides. Repre-
sent the area of the A LCKbj
a, and the area of the A BCD
by b, that of the a ACK by x,
and that of the A ECO- by y, and suppose the A's, KCL
aud DBC, to be each the nth part of their respective
polygons.
Then, na = p, nb = P, 2nx = p',
and, 2ny = P';
But, by (Th. 33, B. I), we have
CM . MK=a (1)
CA . AD = b (2)
CA . MK= 1x (3)
Multiplying equations (1) and (2), member by member,
we have
(CM . AD) x {CA . MK) =ab (4)

From the similar A's CMK and CAD, we have
CM: MK :: CA : AD
whence CM . AD = CA . MK
But from equation (3) we see that each member of
Lhi3 last equation is equal to 2x; hence equation (4!
becomes
2x . 2x = ab
If we multiply both members of this by w' = n , n,
we shall have
4?i*r! = na.nb = p.P
or, taking the square root of both members,
2nx = v'pl?
That is, the area of the inscribed polygon of double the
number of sides is a mean proportional between the areas of
the given inscribed and circumscribed polygons p and P.
Again, since CE bisects the angle ACD, we have, by,
(Th. 24, B. II),
AE : ED
hence, AE : AE +ED
: CA: CD
: CM: CK
: CM: CA
: CM: CM+ CA.
Multiplying the first couplet of this proportion by CA,
and the second by MK, observing that AE + ED = AD,
we shall have
AE.CA : AD.CA :: CM.MK: (CM + CA) MK.
But AE.CA measures the area of the A CEG-^ whnb
ve have called y, AD.CA = A CBD = b, CM.MK =.
A CKL = a, and (CM +. CA)MK = a CKL + 2 a CAK=
a + 2x, as is seen from equations (1) and (3). Therefore,
the above proportion becomes
y : b :: a : a + 2x.
Multiplying the first couplet by 2n, and the second by
n, we shall have
131
Iny:
: 2nb :: na : na + 2nx
That is,
P>;
: 2P :: p :p + p'
whence,
and as the value of p' has been previously found equal to
V.Pp, the value of P' is known from this last equation,
and tlie problem is completely solved.
PROPOSITION VI. —PROBLEM.
To determine the approximate numerical value of the area
of a circle, when the radius is unity.
We have now found, (Prob. 4), the areas of regular
(inscribed and circumscribed hexagons, when the radius
of the circle is taken as the unit; and Prob. 5 gives us
formulae for computing from these the areas of regular
inscribed and circumscribed polygons of twelve sides,
and from these last we may pass to polygons of
twenty-four sides, and so on, without limit. Now, it is
evident that, as the number of sides of the inscribed
polygon is increased, the polygon itself will increase,
gradually approaching the circle, which it can never sur-
pass. And it is equally evident that, as the number of
sides of the circumscribed polygon is increased, the poly-
gon itself will decrease, gradually approaching the circle,
less than which it can never become.
The circle being included between any two corres-
ponding inscribed and circumscribed polygons, it will
differ from either less than they differ from each other;
and the area of either polygon may then be taken as the
area of the circle, from which it will differ by an amount
less than the difference between the polygons.
It is also plain that, as the areas of the polygons ap-
proach equality, their perimeters will approach coinci-
dence with each other, and with the circumference of
the circle.
12*
Assuming the areas already found for the inscribed
and circumscribed hexagons, and applying the formulae
of Prob. 5 to them and to the successive results oh.
tained, we may construct the following table:
NUMBER OF
SIDES.
INSCRIBED POLYOONS.
CIECUHSCKUUi POLTOONS.
6
|V3
= 2.59807621
2^3=
=3.46410161
12
3
= 3.0000000
= 3.1058286
12
-3.2153904
3.1596602
24
6
2+v/3
48
V2+v"8
3.1326287
3.1460863
96
3.1393554
3.1427106
132
3.1410328
3.1418712
384
3.1414519
3.1416616
768
3.1415568
3.1416092
1536
3.1415829
3.1415963
3072
3.1415895
3.1415929
6144
3.1415912
3.1415927
Thus we have found, that when the radius of a circle ia
1, the semi-circumference must be more than 3.1415912,
and less than 3.1415927; and this is as accurate as can
be determined with the small number of decimals here
used. To be more accurate we must have more decimal
places, and go through a very tedious mechanical opera-
tion; but this is not necessary, for the result is well
known, and is 3.1415926535897, plus other decimal places
to the 100th, without termination. This result was dis-
covered through the aid of an infinite series in the Dif-
ferential and Integral Calculus.
The number, 3.1416, is the one generally used in prac-
tice, as it is much n ore convenient than a greater num-
ber of decimals, and it is sufficiently accurate for all
ordinary purposes.
Ia analytical expressions it has become a general cus-
tom with mathematicians to represent this number by
139
the Greek letter *, and, therefore, when any diameter of
a circle is represented by D, the circumference of the
same circle must be «D. If the radius of a circle is re-
presented by Ii, the circumference must be represented
by 2«R.
Scholium. — The side of a regular inscribed hexagon subtends ai
arc of CO0, and the side of a regular polygon of twelve sides subtend
an arc of 30°; and so on, the length of the arc subtended by the side*
of the polygons, varying inversely with the number of sides.
Angles are measured by the arcs of circles included between their
sides; they may also be measured by the chords of these arcs, or rather
by the half chords called sines in Trigonometry. For this purpose, it
becomes necessary to know the length of the chord of every possible
arc of a circle.
PROPOSITION VII. —PROBLEM.
Given, the chord of any arc, to find the chord of one half
that arc, the radius of the circle being unity.
Let FE be the given chord, and draw
the radii CA and CE, the first perpen-
dicular to FE, and the second to its ex-
tremity, E.
Denote FE by 2c, and the chord of
the half arc AE by x.
Then, in the right-angled triangle,
DCE, we have 'DC* = CF — DE*.
CE = l,DC = S\ — c\
If from CA = 1 we subtract DC, we shall have AD.
That is, AD = 1 — >/T=7; hxitAD* + DE* = AE*,
and AD* = 2 — 2^1 — c* — c\ Adding to the first
member of this last equation DE*, and to the second its
value c", we have
AD* + DE'=2-2 vT^c7.
Whence, AE = ^2 — 2^1 — c\ the value sought.
By applying this formula successively to any known
chord, we can find the chord of one half the arc, that ol
half of the half, and so on, to the chords of the mosi
minute arcs.

Whence, since
Application.
The greatest chord in a circle is its diameter, which is
2 when the radius is 1; therefore, we may commence
by making 2c = 2, and e = 1.
Then, AE = ^2-2 41^' = ^2 — 2^1^= ^2-
1.41421356, which is the chord of 90°.
Now make 2c = 1.41421356, and c =.70710678 = Jv^2.
We shall then have,
chord of 450=*/2-V2=i/2-1.41421356=v'.585786"44=:
.7653+.
Again, placing 2c=.7653-|-, and applying the formula,
we can obtain the chord of 22° 30', and from this the
chord of 11° 15', and so on, as far as we please.
We may take, for another starting point, the chord of
60°, which is known to be equal to the radius of the
circle,(Prob. 26, B. IV). If, as above, we make successive
applications of the formula, putting first 2e= 1, we shall
arrive at the results in the following
•
TABLE
•
Chord of 60°,
= h of a
circumference,
1.0000000000
«
"30°,
1 u
u
.5176380902
— 72
u
"15°,
1 «
u
.2610523842
— 27
u
"7° 30',
1 «
u
.1308062583
— IS
ti
"3° 45',
1 «
«
.0654381655
— 38
it
"1° ?2' 30",
1 «
tl
.0327234632
— JV1
ti
« 56' 15",
1 «
«
.0163622792
— 3B?
l:
"28' 7" 30'",
i :i
.'<
.0081812050
— 783
(<
"14' 3" 45'",
1 «
It
0040906112
— 753 8
U
"7' 1" 52 J'",
etc.
1 «
It
.0020453068
— 3572
etc.
It is obvious that an arc so small as seven minutes of a
degree can differ but very little from its chord; therefore,
if we take .002045307 to be the true value of the jj^3 of
the circumference, the whole circumference must be the
product of .002045307 by 3072, which is 6.28318oj.04 =»
circumference whose radius is unity. The half of this,
3.141592552, is the semi-circumference, the more exact
value of which, as stated, (Prop. 6), is 3.141592653.
The value of the half circumference being now deter-
mined, if that of any arc whatever be required, we have
merely to divide 3.141592, etc., by 10800, the number of
minutes in a semi-circumference, and multiply the quo-
tient by the number of minutes in the arc whose length
is required.
But this investigation has been carried far enough for
our present purposes. It will be resumed under the
subject of Trigonometry.
"We insert the following beautiful theorem for the tri-
section of an arc, although not necessary for practical
application. Those not acquainted with cubic equations
may omit it.
PROPOSITION VIII.—THEOREM.
G-iven, the chord of any arc, to determine the chord of one
third of such arc.
Let AE be the given chord, and
conceive its arc divided into three
equal parts, as represented by AB,
BD, and DE.
Through the center draw BCG-, and
draw AB. The two A's, CAB and
ABF, are equiangular; for, the angle
FAB, being at the circumference, is
measured by one half the arc BE, which is equal to AB,
and the angle BCA, being at the center, is measured by
the arc AB; therefore, the angle FAB = the angle BCA;
but the angle CBA or FBA, is common to both tri-
angles; therefore, the third angle, CAB, of the one tri-
angle, is equal to the third angle. AFB, of the other.

(Th. 12, B. I, Cor. 2), and the two triangles are equi-
angular and similar.
But the A ACB is isosceles; therefore, the A AFB is
alsc isosceles, and AB = AF, and we have the following
proportions:
CA : AB :: AB : BF.
Now,letAE = c,AB = x,AC=l. ThenAF=*z,and
EF= c — x, and the proportion becomes,
1 : x :: x : BF. Hence, BF= X*.
Also, FG = 2 — x2.
As AE and BG are two chords intersecting each other
at the point F, we have,
GFx FB = AFx FF, (Th. 17, B. HI).
That is, (2 — ar) x* = x(c — x);
or, Xs — 3a; = — c.
If we suppose the arc AE to be 60 degrees, then e = 1,
and the equation becomes 2? — 3x = —1; a cubic equa-
tion, easily resolved by Horner's method, (Robinson's
New University Algebra, Art. 464), giving x= .347296 +
the chord of 20°. This again may be taken for the value
of c, and a second solution will give the chord of 6° 40',
and so on, trisecting successively as many times as we
please.
PRACTICAL PROBLEMS.
The theorems and problems with which we have been
thus far occupied, relate to plane figures; that is, to
figures all of whose parts are situated in the same plane.
It yet remains for us to investigate the intersections ani
relative positions of planes; the relations.and positions
of lines with reference to planes in which they are not
contained; and the measurements, relations, and proper-
ties of solids, or volumes. But before we proceed to this,
it is deemed advisable to give some practical problems
for the purpose of exercising the powers of the student,
and of fixing m his mind those gent, al geometrical prin-
ciples with which we must now suppose him to he
acquainted.
1. The base of an isosceles triangle is 6, and the oppo-
site angle is 60°; required the length of each of the other
two equal sides, and the number of degrees in each of
the other angles.
2. One angle of a right-angled triangle is 30°; what
is the other angle? Also, the least side is 12, what is
the hypotenuse?
. /The hypotenuse is 24, the double of the least
JLm \ side. Why?
8. The perpendicular distance between two parallel
lines is 10; what angles must aline of 20 make with
these parallels to extend exactly from the one to the
other? Am. The angles must be 30° and 150°.
4. The perpendicular distance between two parallels
is 20 feet, and a line is drawn across them at an angle of
4.5°; what is its length between the parallels?
Ana. 20^2.
5. Two parallels are 8 feet asunder, and from a point
in one of the parallels two lines are drawn to meet the
other; the length of one of these lines is 10 feet, and
that of the other 15 feet; what is the distance between
ihe points at which they meet-the other parallel?
Am. 6.69 ft., or 18.69 ft. (See Th. 39, B. I).
6. Two parallels are 12 feet asunder, and, from a point
on one of them, two lines, the one 20 feet and the othei
18 feet in length, are drawn to the "other parallel; wha
u the distance between the two lines on the other parallel
and what is the area of the triangle so formed?
!The distance on the other parallel is 29.416
feet, or 2.584 feet; and the area of the tri
angle is 176.496, or 15.504 square feet.
7 The diameter of a circle is 12, and a chord of the
circle is 4; what is the length of the perpendicular
drawn from the center to thia chord? (See Th. 3, B. TTT).
Ans. W%.
8. Two parallel chords in a circle were measured and
found to be 8 feet each, and their distance asunder was
6 feet; what was the radius of the circle?
Ans. 5 feet.
9. Two chords on opposite sides of the center of a
ci/3le are parallel, and one of them has a length of Id
and the other of 12 feet, the distance between them
being 14 feet. What is the diameter of the circle?
Ans. 20 feet.
10. An isosceles triangle has its two equal sides, 15
each, and its base 10. "What must be the altitude of a
right-angled triangle on the same base, and having an
e>(ual area;
11. From the extremities of the base of any triangle,
dr.w lines bisecting the other sides; these two lines in-
tersecting within the triangle, will form another triangle
on the same base. How will the area of this new tri-
angle compare with that of the whole triangle?
Ans. Their areas will be as 3 to 1.
12. Two parallel chords on the same side of the centet
of a circle, whose diameter is 32, are measured and found
to be, the one 20, and the other 8. How far are they
asunder? Ans. ^240 —</\56 = 3+.
If we suppose the two chords to be on opposite sides of the
center, their distance apart will then be v'240 + v^lSG = ] 5.49 -f
12.49 = 27.98.
13. The longer of the two parallel sides of a trapezoid
is 12, the shorter 8, and their distance asunder 5. Wha1
is the area of the trapezoid? and if we produce the two
inclined sides until they meet, what will be the area of
the triangle so formed?
Ans. Area of trapezoid, 50; area of triangle, 40; area
of triangle and trapezoid, 90.
145
14. The base of a triangle is 697, one of the sides is
534, and the other 813. If a line be drawn bisecting the
angle opposite the base, into what two parts will the
bisecting line divide the base? (See Th. 24, B. II).
A ( The greater part will be 420.684;
nS' \ The less " « 276.316.
15. Draw three horizontal parallels, making the dis-
tance between the two upper parallels 7, and that be-
tween the middle and lower parallels 9; then place be-
tween the upper parallels a line equal to 10, and from
the point in which it meets the middle parallel draw to
the lower a line equal to 11, and join the point in which
this last line meets the lower parallel, with the point in
the upper parallel, from which the line 10 was drawn.
Required the length of this line, and the area of the
triangle formed by it and the two lines 10 and 11
The adjoining figure
will illustrate. Let A be
the point on the upper
parallel from which the
line 10 is drawn. Then,
AF = 7, AB = 10,
FB = -v/100 — 49 =«
•51.
BR = FD = 9, BC
*= 11, RC=>/121^781
= •JO.
Whence, DC = >/5i
AC* = (x/51 + •il))' -t- (16)'; AC — 20.89, An».
Th.e area of the triangle, ABC, can be determined by first find-
ing the area of the trapezoid, ABIID, then the area of the trian-
gle, BHC, and from their sum subtracting the area of the triangle,
ADC.
16. Construct a triangle on a base of 400, one of the
angles at the base being 80°, and the other 70°; and

13 K
GEOMETKi.
Ans.
determine the third angle, and the area of the triangle
thus constructed.
The third angle is 30°, and as nearly as our
scale of equal parts can determine for us, the
side opposite the angle 80° is 787, and that
opposite 70° is 740.
The exact solution of problems like the last, except in a few par-
ticular cases, requires a knowledge of certain lines depending on
the angles of the triangle. The properties and values of these lines
are investigated in trigonometry; and as we are not yet supposed
to be acquainted with them, we must be content with the approxi-
mate solutions obtained by the constructions and measurements
made with the plane scale. *
17. If we call the mean radius of the earth 1, the
mean distance of the moon will be 60; and as the mean
distance of the sun is 400 times the distance of the
moon, its distance will be 400 times 60. The sun and
moon appear to have the same diameter; supposing^
then, the real diameter of the moon to be 2160 miles,
what must be that of the sun?

Let E be the center of the earth, M that of the moon, and <S'
that of the sun, and suppose EXP to be a line from the center of
the earth, touching the moon and the sun.
Then, EM: MX:: ES : SP;
but 3IX\s the radius of the moon, and SP that of the sun. Mill
tiplying the consequents by 2, the above proportion becomes
EM : 2MX:: ES :2SP;
or in numbers, 60 : 2160 :: 400 x 60 : 2SP;
whence, 2SP = sun's diameter = 864000 miles, Ans.
18. In Problem 15, suppose BC to be drawn on the
other side of BR, what, then, will be the value of AOK
and wbat the area of the triano;le ACB1
Ans
(AC = 16,021;
A.rea of triangle, ^(9^51 + 7t/40).
19. A man standing 40 feet from a building which was
24 feet wide, observed that when he closed one eye, the
width of the building just eclipsed or hid from view 90
rods of fence which was parallel to the width of the
building; what was the distance from the eye of the
observer to the fence? Ans. 2475 feet,
20. Taking the same data as in the last problem, ex-
cept that we will now suppose the direction of the fence
to be inclined at an angle of 45° to the side of the
building which we see; what, in this case, must be the
distance between the eye of the observer and the remoter
point of the fence?

Let EF be the width of the house, E the position of the eye, and
A B that of the fence. Draw BD perpendicular to EA produced;
then, since the triangle ABD is right-angled and isosceles, we have
AD = DB, and 2AZ? = AB' = (90)2; BE = 63.64 rods, and the
Rtmilar triangles EFE and EDB give the proportion
EF : EF :: BE : ED = 1750.1 feet;
and from this we find
EB' = ED* + BD' = (63.64 x 823)* + (175°-l)*
Whence EB = 2040.94 + Ans.
21. In a right-angled triangle, ABC, we have AB =
493, AC= 1425, and BC = 1338; it is required to divide
tliis triangle into parts by a line parallel to AB, whose
areas are to each other as 1 is to 3. How will the sides
AO and BC be divided by this line? (See Th. 20, B. 11).
Ans. Into equal parts.
22. In a right-angled triangle, ABC, right-angled at
B, the base AB is 320, and the angle A is 60°; required
the remaining angle and the other sides.
. f The angle (7= 30°;
I AC= 640; BC= 554.24.
23. A hunter, wishing to determine his distance from
a village in sight, took a point and from it laid off two
lines in the direction of two steeples, wnich he supposed
squally distant from him, and which he knew to be 100
rods asunder. At the distance of 50 feet on each line
from the common point, he measured the distance be-
tween the lines, and found it to be 5 feet 8 inches. How
fai was he from the steeples?
5 ft. 8 in.: 100 rods:: 50 ft.: distance. . (14,55y feet,
or, 68:100x?xl2::50:distance. A**'\ f ™&A1
£ K. 3 miles.
24. A person is in front of a building which he knowa
to be 160 feet long, and he finds that it covers 10 minutes
of a degree; that is, he finds that the two lines drawn
from his eye to the extremities of the building include
an angle of 10 minutes. What is his distance from the
building? j 55,004 feet, or
more than 10 miles.
Remark.—The questions of distance, with which we are at presen.
occupied, depend for their solution on the properties of similar tri-
angles. In the preceding example we apparently have but one tri
angle, but we have in fact two; the second being formed by the dis-
tances unity on the lines drawn from the eye of the observer, and the
line which connects the extremities of these units of distance. This
last line may be regarded as the chord of the arc 10 minutes to the
radius unity. Wo have seen that the length of the arc 180° to the
radius 1, is 3.141592G; hence the chord of 1° or GO' is 0.01*453, and
if KK it must be 0.0029089. Therefore, by similar triangles, we have
0.0029089 : 1G0 :: 1 : Ans. = ^^.
25. In the triangle, ABC, we have given the angles
A = 32°, and B = 84°. The side AB is produced, and
the exterior angle CBD thus formed, is bisected by the
line BE, and the angle A is also bisected by the line AE,
BE and AE meeting in the point E. What is the angle
C, and what is the relation between the angles C and E'
Ans. C=64°; E= | O.
26. Suppose a line to be drawn in any direction be-
tween two parallels. Bisect the two interior angles thus
formed on either side of the connecting line, and prove
that the bisecting lines meet each other at right angles,
and that they are the sides of a right-angled triangle of
which the line connecting the parallels is the hypotenuse.
27. If the two diagonals of a trapezoid be drawn,
show that two similar triangles will be formed, the
parallel sides of the trapezoid being homologous sidea
of the triangles. "What will be the relative areas of
these triangles?
( The triangles will be to each other
Ans. < as the squares on the parallel sides
( of the trapezoid.
28. If from the extremities of the base of any triangle,
lines be drawn to any point within the triangle, forming
with the base another triangle; how will the vertical
angle in this last triangle compare with that in the
original triangle?
It will be as much greater than the angle
in the original triangle as the sum of
Ans. \ angles at the base of the new triangle is
less than the sum of those at the base
of the first.
29. The two parallel sides of a trapezoid are 12 and
20, respectively, and their perpendicular distance is 8.
If a line whose length is 14.5 be drawn between the in-
clined sides and parallel to the parallel sides, what is the
area of the trapezoid, and what the area of each part,
,respectively, into which the trapezoid is divided?
'Area of the whole, 128 square units;
"smaller part, 33&"
Ana \ "larger " 94|"
Dividing line at the distance of 2| from
shortei parallel side.
80. If we assume the diameter of the earth to be
13*
7956 miles, and the eye of an observer be 40 feet above
the level of the sea, how far distant will an object be,
that is just visible on the earth's surface. (Employ Th.
18, B. HI, after reducing miles to feet.)
Ans. 40992 feet = 7 miles 4032 feet.
31. The diameter of a circle is 4; what is the area of
the inscribed equilateral triangle? Ans. 3^3.
32. Three brothers, whose residences are at the ver-
tices of a triangular area, the sides of which are severally
10, 11, and 12 chains, wish to dig a well which shall be
at the same distance from the residence of each. Deter-
mine the point for the well, and its distance from their
residences.
Remark. — Construct a triangle, the sides of which are, respectively,
10, 11, and 12. The sides of this triangle will be the chords of a cir-
cle whose radius is the required distance. To find the center of this
circle, bisect either two of the sides of the triangle by perpendiculars,
and their intersection will be the center of the circle, and the location
of the well.
Ans. The well is distant 6.405 chains, nearly, from each
residence.
t 33. The base of an isosceles triangle is 12, and the
equal sides are 20 each. "What is the length of the per-
pendicular from the vertex to the base; and what the
area of the triangle?
Ans. Perpendicular, 19.07; area, (19.07) x 6.
34. The hypotenuse of a
ri^ht-angled triangle is 45
iLches, and the difference be-
tween the two sides is 8.45
inches. Construct the triangle.
Suppose the triangle drawn and
-^presented by ABC, DCbeing the
difference between the two sides.
Now, by inspection, we discover the
steps to be taken for the construc-
tion of the triangle As AD = AB,

the angle ABB, must be equal to the angle DBA, and each equal
to 45°.
Therefore, draw any line, AC, and from an assumed point in it
as D, draw BD, making the angle ADB = 45°. Take from a
scale of equal parts, 8.45 inches, and lay them off from D to C, and
with C as a center, and GB = 45 inches as a radius, describe an
ore cutting BD in B. Draw CB, and from B, draw BA at rigb,
angles to AC; then is ABC the triangle sought.
Arts. AB =27.3; AC = 35.76, when carefully constructed.
35. Taking the same triangle as in the last problem, if
we draw a line bisecting the right angle, where will it
meet the hypotenuse?
Ans. 19.5 from B; and 25.5 from C.
36. The diameters of the hind and fore wheels of a
carriage, are 5 and 4 feet, respectively; and their centers
are 6 feet asunder. At what distance from the fore wheels
will the line, passing through their centers, meet the
ground, which is supposed level? Ans. 24 feet.
37. If the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle is 35,
and the side of its inscribed square 12, what are its sides?
Ans. 28 and 21.
38. What are the sides of a right-angled triangle
naving the least hypotenuse, in which if a square be in-
scribed, its side will be 12?
(The sides are equal to 24 each, and the
Ans. < least hypotenuse is double the diagonal
l of the square.
39. The radius of "a circle is 25; what is the area or a
sector of 50°?
Remark. — First find tne length of an arc of 50° in a circle whestf
radius is unity. Then 25 times that will be the length of an are of
the same number of degrees in a circle of which the radius is 25.
, , 1Q ,- • 3.14159265
Length of arc 1 radius unity = t~jjj •
» "50° " "=1-04719755 x 5.
6
. . , 1.04719755 „ 10- „ 25 „„„„„„„ .
Area of sector = ^ X 12o x — = 272 7077. Ans.
BOOK VI.
ON THE INTERSECTIONS OF PLANES, AND THE EEL-
ATIVE POSITIONS OF PLANES AND OF PLANES
AND LINES.
DEFINITIONS.
A Plane has been already defined to be a surface, sucb
that the straight line which joins any two of its points
will lie entirely in that surface. (Def. 9, page 9.)
1. The Intersection or Common Section of two planes is
the line in which they meet.
2. A Perpendicular to a Plane is a line which makes
right angles with every line drawn in the plane through
the point in which the perpendicular meets it; and, con-
versely, the plane is perpendicular to the line. The
point in which the perpendicular meets the plane is
called the foot of the perpendicular.
3. A Diedral Angle is the separation or divergence of
two planes proceeding from a common line, and is meas-
ured by the angle incl ided between two lines drawn
Dne in each plane, perpendicular to their common sec
tion at the same point.
The common section of the two planes is called the
edge of the angle, and the planes are its facet.
4. Two Planes are perpendicular to each other, when their
diedral angle is a right angle.
5. A Straight Line is parallel to a plane, when it will
lot meet the plane, however far produced.
6. Two Planes are parallel, when they will not intersect,
however far produced in all directions.
7. A Solid or Polyedral Angle is the separation or diver-
gence of three or more plane angles, proceeding from a
common point, the two sides of each of the plane angles
being the edges of diedral angles formed by these plane
Angles.
The common point from which the plane angles pro-
ceed i3 called the vertex of the solid angle, and the inter-
sections of its bounding planes are called its edges.
8. A Triedral Angle is a solid angle formed by three
plane angles.
THEOREM I.
Two straight lines which intersect each other, two parallel
straight lines, and three points not in the same straight line,
will severally determine the position of a plane.
Let AB aud AC be two lines
Intersecting each other at the
point A; then will these lines
determine a plane. For, conceive
a plane to be passed through AB,
and turned about AB as au axis
until it contains the point C in the line AC. The plane,
in this position, contains the lines AB and AC, and will
contain them in no other. Again, let AB and DE be
\\\o parallel straight lines, and take at pleasure two
points, A and B, in the one, and two points, D and E,
in the other, and draw .417and BD. The last lines, AB, AE,
or the lines AB, DB fvom what precedes, determine the posi-
tion of the parallels AB, BE. And again, if A, B, and Q
be three points not in the same straight line, and we draw
the lines AB and AC, it follows, from the first part of this
proposition, that these points fix the plane.

GEOMETRY.
Cor. A straight line and a point out ot it determine
the position of a plane.

THEOREM II.
If two planet meet each other, their common points will }e
found in, and form one straight line.
Let B and D he any two of the
points common to the two planes,
and join these points by the straight
line BD; then will BD contain all
the points common to the two planes,
and be their intersection. For, suppose the planes have
a common point out of the line BD; then, (Cor. Th. 1),
since a straight line and a point out of it determine a
plane, there would be two planes determined by this one
line and siugle point out of it, which is absurd. Hence
the common section of two planes is a straight line.
Remark.—The truth of this proposition is implicitly assumed in the
definitions of this Book.
THEOREM III.
If a straight line stand at right angles to each of two other
straight lines at their point of intersection, it will be at right
angles to the plane of those lines.
Let AB stand at right angles to .E^Fand
CD, at their point of intersection A. Then
AB will be at right angles to any other
line drawn through A in the plane, pass-
ing through EF, CD, and, of course, at
right angles to the plane itself. (Def. 2.)
Through A, draw any line, A 67, in the
plane EF, CD, and from any point 67, draw GE parallel
to AD. Take HF = AH, and join F and G and produce
WG to D. Because HG is parallel to AD, we have
FH: HA :: FG : GD.

But, in this proportion, the first couplet is a ratic of
equality; therefore the last couplet is also a ratio of
Bquality,
That is, FG = GD, or the line FD is bisected in G.
. Draw BD, BG, and BF.
Now, in the triangle AFD, as the base FD is bisected
in G, we have,
AT + AD = 2A G + 2 GF' (1) (Th. 42, B. I).
Also, as DF is the base of the a BDF, we have by the
same theorem,
~BF* +~BDi = 2BG* + 2GF* (2)
By subtracting (1) from (2), and observing that BF*—
AF' = AB\ because BAF is a right angle; and BD' —
AD* = AB\ because BAD is a right angle, we shall have,
AB" + AB" = 2BG* — 2AG .
dividing by 2, and transposing AG , and we have,
AB' + AG =BG .
This last equation shows that BA G is a right angle.
But AG is any line drawn through A, in the plane EF,
CD; thnrefore AB is at right angles to any line in the
plane, and, of course, at right angles to the plane itself
Cor. 1. The perpendicular BA is shorter than any of
the oblique lines BF, BG, or BD, drawn from the point
B to the plane; hence it is the shortest distance from a
point to a plane.
Cor. 2. But one perpendicular can be erected to a plane
from a given point in the plane; for, if there could be
two, the plane of these perpendiculars would intersect
the given plane in some line, as AG, and both the per-
pendiculars would be at right angles to this intersection
at the same point, which is impossible.
Cor. 3. But one perpendicular can be let fall from a
given point out of a plane on the plane; for, if there can
be two, let BG and BA be such perpendiculars, then
would the triangle BAG be right angled at both A and
G, which is impossible.
THEOREM IV.
If from any point of a perpendicular to a p Jane, oblique
lines be drawn to different points in the plane, those oblique
lines which meet the plane at equal distances from the. foot of
the perpendicular are equal; and those which meet the plane
at unequal distances from the foot of the perpendicular are
unequal, the greater distances corresponding to the longer
oblique lines.
Take any point B in
the perpendicular BA to
the plane ST, and draw
the oblique lines BC,
BD, and BE, the points
C, B, and E, being equally
distant from A, the foot
of the perpendicular.
Produce AE to F, and
draw BF; then will BC= BD = BE, and BF> BE.
For, the triangles BAC, BAD, and BAE are all right-
angled at A, the side BA is common, and AC= AD= AE
by construction, hence, (Th. 16, B. [), BC= BD = BE.
Moreover, since AFy.AE, the oblique line BF> BE.
Cor. If any number of equal oblique lines le drawn
from the point B to the plane, they will all meet the
plane in the circumference of a circle having the foot of
the perpendicular for its center. It follows from this,
that, if three points be taken in a plane equally distant
from a point out of it, the center of the circle whose cir-
cumference passes through these points will he the foot of
Hie oeroendicnlar drawn from the point to the plane.


THEOREM V.
the line which Joins any point of a perpendicular to a
plane, with the point in which a line in the plane is inter-
tected, at right angles, by a line through the foot of the per
pendicular, will be at right angles to the line in the plane
Let AB be perpendic-
nlar to the plane ST, and
AD i line through its foot
at rigut angles to EF, a line
in the plane. Connect D
with any point, as B, of the
perpendicular; and BD will
be perpendicular to EF.
Make DF = DE, and join B to the points E a-J
F. Since DE' = DF, and the angles at D are ri^ht
angles, the oblique lines, AE and AF, are equal; aed,
since AE= AF, we have, (Th. 4), BE=BF; therefore
the line BD has two points, B and D, each equally distant
from the extremities E and F of the line EF, and hence
BB is perpendicular to EF at its middle point D.
Cor. Since FD is perpendicular to the two lines AB
nnd BD at their intersection, it is perpendicular to their
plane ADB, (Th. 3).
Scholium. — The inclination of a line to a plane is measured by the
angle included between the given line and the lire which joins the
point in which it meets the plane and the foot of the perpendimilal
drawn from any point of the line to the plane; thus, the angle BFA \&
the inclination of the line BF to the plane ST.
THEOREM VI.
If either of two parallels is perpendicular to a plane, the
other is also perpendicular to the plane.
Let BA and ED be two parallels, of which one, BA,
is perpendicular to the plane ST; then will the other also
be perpendicular to the same plane.
14
GEOMETRY.

The two parallels de-
termine a plane which
intersects the given plane
in AD; through p draw
MN perpendicular to
AD, then, (Cor., Th. 5,)
tvil. MN be perpendicu-
lar to the plane BAD,
and the angle MDE is
therefore a right angle; but EDA is also a right angle,
since BA and ED are parallel, and BAD is a right angle
by hypothesis; hence, ED is perpendicular to the two
lines MD and AD in the plane ST; it is therefore perpen-
dicular to the plane, (Th. 3).
Cor. 1. The converse of this proposition is also true,
that is, if two straight lines are both perpendicular to the same
plane, the lines are parallel.
For, suppose BA and ED to be two perpendiculars; if
not parallel, draw through D a parallel to BA, and this
last line will be perpendicular to the plane; but ED is
a perpendicular by hypothesis, and we should have two
perpendiculars erected to the plane at the 6ame point,
which is impossible, (Cor. 2, Th. 3).
Cor. 2. If two lines lying in the same plane are each
parallel to a third line not in the same plane, the two
lines are parallel. For, pass a plane perpendicular to
the third line, and it will be perpendicular to aaoh of tlva
olhers; hence they are parallel
THEOREM VII.
A straight line is parallel to a plane, when it is parallel
to a line in the plane.
Suppose the line MN to be parallel to the line CD, in
the plane ST: then will MNhe parallel to the plane ST
For, CD being in the plane
ST, and at the same time g
parallel to MN, it must he the ~
intersection of the pln.ne of
these parallels with the plane
ST; hence, if MN meet the
plane ST, it must do so in the
line CD, or CD produced; but MN and CD are parallel,
and cannot meet; therefore MN, nowever far produced,
can have no point in the plane ST, and hence, (Def. 5), it
is parallel to this plane.
THEOREM VIII.
If two lines are parallel, they will be equally inclined to
any given plane.
Let AB and CD be
two parallels, and ST
any plane met by them
in the points A and
C; then will the lines
AB and CD be equally
inclined to the plane
ST.
For, take any distance, AB, on one of these parallels,
and make CD = AB, and draw AC and BD. From the
points B and D let fall the perpendiculars, BE and DF,
on the plane; join their feet by the line EF, and draw
AE and CF.
Now, since AB is eqiial and parallel to CD, ABDC »
a parallelogram, and BD is equal and parallel to A J,
and BD is parallel to the plane ST, (Th. 7); and, since
BE and DF are both perpendicular to this plane, they
are parallel; but BD and EF are in the plane of these
parallels; and as EF is in the plane ST, and BD is
parallel to this plane, these two lines must be parallel
and equal, and BDFE is also a parallelogram Now,

we have shown that BD is equal and parallel to AC, and
EF equal and parallel to BD; hence, (Cor. 2, Th. 6),
EF is equal and parallel t$ AC, and ACFE is a parallel-
ogram, and AE = CF. The triangles ABE and CDS
have, then, the sides of the one equal to the sides of the
other, eacli to each, and their angles are consequently
equal; that is, the angle BAE is equal to the aigle
DCF; hut these angles measure the inclination of the
lines AB and CD to the plane ST, (Scholium, Th. 5).
Scholium. — The converse of this proposition is not generally true;
that is, straight lines equally inclined to the same plane are not neces-
sarily parnilel.
THEOREM IX.
The intersections of tiro parallel planes by a third plane,
ire parallel.
Let the planes QR and ST he intersected by the third
plane, AD: then will the intersections, AB and CD, be
parallel.
Since the lines AB and CD are in the same plane, if
they are not parallel, they will
meet if sufficiently produced;
but they cannot meet out of the
planes QR and ST, in which
they are respectively found;
therefore, any poiut common to
the lines, must be at the same
time common to the planes; and
iince the planes arc parallel,
Ihey have no common point, and the lines, therefore, io
not intersect; hence they are parallel.
THEOREM X.
If tico planes are perpendicular to the same straight line,
they are parallel to each other.
Let QR and ST be two planes, perpendicular to trie
line AB: then will these planes be parallel.

151

For, if not parallel, suppose M to be a point in their
line of intersection, and
from this point draw
lines to the extremities
of the perpendicular
A B, thus forming a tri-
angle, MAB. Now,
since the line AB is
perpendicular to both
planes, it is perpendicular to each of the lines MA and
MB, drawn through its feet in the planes, (Def. 2);
hence, the triangle has two right angles, which is impos-
sible; the planes cannot therefore meet in any point as
M, and are consequently parallel.
Cor. Conversely: The straight line which is perpendicu-
lar to one of two parallel planes, is also perpendicular to the
other. For, if AB be perpendicular to the plane QR,
draw in the other plane, through the point in which the
perpendicular meets it, any line, as AC. The plane of
the lines AB and A C will intersect the plane QR in the
line BD ; and since the planes are parallel by hypothesis,
the lines AC and BD must be parallel, (Th. 9); but the
angle DBA is a right angle; hence, BA C must be a right
angle, and the line BA is perpendicular to any line what-
ever drawn in the plane through the point A; BA is
therefore perpendicular to the plane ST.
THEOREM XI.
Jf two straight lines be drawn in any direction through
parallel planes, the planes will cut the lines proportionally.
Conceive three planes to be parallel, as represented
in the figure, and take any points, A and B, in the first
and third planes, and draw AB, the line passing through
the second plane at E.
14* L
GEOMETRY.
A
—-"-"^TC'
\
V
\
K
-ir-n
ti
\
\
\
Also, take any other two points, as
C and D, in the first and third planes,
and draw CD, the line passing through
the second plane at F.
Join the two lines by the diagonal
AD, which passes through the second
plane at G. Draw BD, EG, GF, and
A C. "We are now to prove that,
AE : EB :: CF : FD.
For the sake of brevity, put AG=X, and GD= Y.
As the planes are parallel, BD is parallel to EG; from
the two triangles ABD and AEG, we have, (Th. 17,
B.II);
A E : EB :: X : Y.
Also, as the planes are parallel, GF is parallel to AC,
and we have,
CF : FD :: X: Y.
By comparing the proportions, and applying Th. 6,
B. II, we have
AE : EB :: CF: FD.
S^.
THEOREM XII.
If a straight line is perpendicular to a plane, all planes
passing through that line will be perpendicular to the plane.
Let MNbe a plane, and ABaper-
pendicular to it. Let BC be any
other plane, passing through AB;
this plane wnll be perpendicular to
MN.
Let BD be the common intersec-
tion of the two planes, and from
the point B, draw in MN BE at right angles to DB.
Then, as A B is perpendicular to the plane MN, it is
perpendicular to every line in that plane, passing through
M
\ BQ
163
B; (Def. 2,); therefore, ABE is a right angle. But the
angle ABE, (Def. 3), measures the inclination of the two
planes; therefore, the plane CB is perpendicular to the
plane MN; and thus we can show that any other plane,
passing through AB, will be perpendicular to MN.
Honce the theorem.
THEOREM XIII.
Jf two planes are perpendicular to edfch other, and a line
be drawn in one of them perpendicular to their common in-
tersection, it will be perpendicular to the other plane.
Let the two planes, QR and ST, be perpeudicular to
each other, and draw in QR the line CD at right angles
to their common intersection, R V; then will this line be
perpendicular to the plane ST.
In the plane *STdraw ED, perpen-
dicular to VR at the point D.
Then, since the planes QR and ST
are perpendicular to each other, the
angle CDE is a right angle, and
CD is perpendicular to the two
lines, ED and VR, passing through
its foot in the plane ST. CD is therefore perpendicular
to the plane ST, (Th. 3).
Cor. Conversely: if we erect a perpendicular to the
plane ST, at any point, D, of its intersection with the
plane QR, this perpendicular will lie in the plane QR
For, if it be not in this plane, we can draw in the plane
the line CD, at right angles to VR; and, from what has
been shown above, CD is perpendicular to the plane ST,
and we should thus have two perpendiculars erected to
the plane, ST, at the same point, which is impossible,
(Cor. 2, Th. 3}.

GEOMETRIC.
THEOREM XIV.
The common intersection of two planes, both of which art
perpendicular to a third plane, will also be perpendicular io
the third plane.
Let MN be the common
intersection of the two
planes, QR and VX, both
of which are perpendicular
to the plane ST; then will
MNhc perpendicular to the
plane ST. For, if we erect
a perpendicular to the plane
ST, at the point M, it will
lie in both planes at the
same time, (Cor. Th. 13); and this perpendicular must
therefore be their intersection. Hence the theorem.

THEOREM XV.
Parallel straight lines included between parallel planes,
are equal.
Let AB and DCbe two parallel lines,
included by the two parallel planes,
QR and ST; then will AB = DC.
For, the plane AC, of the parallel
lines, intersects the planes, QR and ST,
in the parallel lines, AD and BC,
(Th. 9); hence ABCD is a parallelogram, and its oppo-
site sides, AB and DC, are equal.
Cor. It follows from this proposition, that parallel planes
are everywhere equally distant; for, two perpendiculars
drawn at pleasure between the two planes are parallel
lines, (Cor. 1, Th. 6), and hence are equal; but these per-
pendiculars measure the distance between the planes.
V
D\
s
B
V
*\
^
165


THEOREM XVI.
Two planes are parallel when two lines not parallel, lying
in the one, are respectively parallel to two lines lying in iht
other.
Let QR and ST be
two planes, the first
containing the two
lines AB and CD
which intersect each
other at E, and the
second the two lines
LM and NO, respect-
ively parallel to AB
and CD; then will
these planes be par-
allel.
For, if the two planes
are not parallel, they must intersect when sufficiently
produced; and their common section lying in both planes
at the same time, would be a line of the plane QR. Now,
the lines AB and CD intersect each other by hypothesis;
hence one or both of them must meet the common sec-
tion of the two planes. Suppose AB to meet this com-
mon section; then, since AB and LM are parallel, they
determine a plane, and AB cannot meet the plane ST in
a point out of the line LM; but AB and LM being par-
allel, have no common point. Ilence, neither AB nor
CD can meet the common section of the two planes; that
k, they have no common section, and are therefore par-
ul .el.
Cor. Since two lines which intersect each other, deter,
mine a plane, it follows from this proposition, that iht
plane of two intersecting lines is parallel to the plane of twt
other intersecting lines respectively parallel to the first lines
GEOMETRT.
THEOREM XVII.
When two intersecting lines are respectively parallel to two
oiher intersecting lines lying in a different plane, the anglet
formed by the last two lines will be equal to those formed by
the first two, each to each, and the planes of the angles will fa
parallel.
Let QR be the plane
of the two lines AB
and CD, which inter-
sect each other at the
point E, and ST the
plane of the two lines
LM and NO, respect-
ively parallel to AB
and CD; then will the
|_ BUD = L MPO,
and l_ BEC = |_
MPN, etc., and the
planes QR and ST
will be parallel.
That the plane of one set of angles is parallel to that
of the other, follows from the Corollary to Theorem 16;
we have then only to show that the angles are equal,
each to each.
Take any points, B and D, on the lines AB and CD,
and draw BD. Lay off PM, equal to and in the same
direction with EB, and PO, equal to and in the same
direction with ED, and draw MO. Now, since the planoa
QR and ST are parallel, and ED is equal and parallel to
PO, ED OP is a parallelogram, and DO is equal and par
allel to EP. For the same reason, BM is equal and
parallel to EP; therefore, BDOMis a parallelogram, and
MO is equal and parallel to BD. Hence the A's, EBD
and PMO, have the sides of the one equal to the sides
nf the other, each to each; they are therefore equal, and

the L MPO = the | BED. In the same manner it can
be proved that \_BEC= [_MPN, etc.
Cor. 1. The plane of the parallels AB and LM is in-
tersected by the plane of the parallels CD and NO, in the
line EP. Now, EB and ED are the intersections of thefi
two planes with the plane QR, and PM and PO are the
intersections of the same planes with the parallel plana
ST. It has just been proved that the |_ BED = |_ MP0.
Hence, if the diedral angle formed by two -planes, be cut by
two parallel planes, the intersections of the faces of the diedral
angle with one of these planes will include an angle equal
to that included by the intersections of the faces with the other
plane.
Cor. 2. The opposite triangles formed by joining the cor-
responding extremities of three equal and parallel stroljht
lines lying in different planes, will be equal and the plane i of
the triangles will be parallel.
Let EP, BM, and DO, be three equal and parallel
straight lines lying in different planes. By joining their
corresponding extremities, we have the triangles EBD
and PMO. Now, since EP and BM are equal and
parallel, EBMP is a parallelogram, and EB is equal and
parallel to PM; in the same manner, we show that EB
is equal and parallel to PO, and BD to MO; hence the
triangles are equal, ha ring the three sides of the one,
respectively, equal to the three sides of the other.
That their planes are parallel, follows from Cor., Th^o
rem 16
THEOREM XVIII.
Any one of the three plane angles bounding a triedral
angle, is less than the sum of the other two.
Let A be the vertex of a solid angle, bounded by the
three plane angles, BAC, BAD, and DAG; then will any
one of these three angles be less than the sum of tho

other two. To establish this proposition, we have only
to compare the greatest of the three
angles with the sum of the other
two.
Suppose, then, BAC to be the
greatest angle, and draw in its plane B<
the line AE, making the angle
CAE equal to the angle CAD. On "d
AE, take any point, E, and through it draw the line CEB.
Take AD, equal to AE, and draw BD and DC.
Now, the two triangles, CAD and-CAE, having two
sides and the included angle of the one equal to the two
sides and included angle of the other, each to each, are
equal, and CE = CD; but in the triangle, BDC, BC<
BD + DC. Taking EC from the first member of this
inequality, and its equal, DC, from the second, we have,
BE < BD. In the triangles, BAE and BAD, BA is
common, and AE = AD by construction; but the third
side, BD, in the one, is greater than the third side, BE,
in the other; hence, the angle BAD is greater than the
Angle BAE, (Th. 22, B. I); that is, [_BAE < \_BAD;
adding the [_EAC to the first member of this inequality,
and its equal, the \__DAC, to the other, we have
[_BAE+ [_EAC<. [_BAD + \_DAC.
And, as the |_ BA C is made up of the angles BAE and
EAC, we have, as enunciated,
\_BAC< \_BAD + l_DAC.
THEOREM XIX.
The sum of the plane angles forming any solid angle, i*
always less than four right angles.
Let the planes which form the solid angle at A, be cut
by another plane, which we may call the plane of the
base, BCDE. Take any point, a, in this plane, and draw
aB, aC, aD, aE, etc., thus making as many triangles on
169

the plaice of the base as there are tri-
angular planes forming the solid angle
A. Now, since the sum of the angles
of every A is two right angles, the sum
of all the angles of the A's which
have their vertex in A, is equal to the
Bum of all angles of the A's which have
their vertex in a. But, the angle3 BCA
+ A CD, are, together, greater than
the angles BCa + aCD, or BCD, by the last proposition.
That is, the sum of all the angles at the bases of the A's
which have their vertex in A, is greater than the sum of
all the angles at the bases of the A's which have their
vertex in a. Therefore, the sum of all the angles at a is
greater than the sum of all the angles at A; but the sum
of all the angles at a is equal to four right angles; there-
fore, the sum of all the angles at A is less than four right
angles.
THEOREM XX.
If two solid angles are formed by three plane angles respect-
ively equal to each other, the planes which contain the equal
angles will be equally inclined to each other.
Letthe \_ASC=the[_D TF,
the |_ ASB=the |_ D TE, and
the \_BSC= the [_ETF; then
will the inclination of the
planes, ASC, ASB, be equal
to that of the planes, DTF,
DTE.
Having taken SB at pleas-
ure, draw BO perpendicular
to the plane ASC; from the point O, at which that perpen
dicular meets the plane, draw OA and OC, perpendicular
to SA and SC; draw AB and BC; next take TE = SB,
and draw EP perpendicular to the plane DTF} from the

15
point P, draw PD and PF, perpendicular to TD and
TF; lastly, draw DE and EF.
The triangle SAB, is right-angled at A, and the tri-
angle TDE, at D, (Th. 5); and since the |_ ^.S^ = the
|_ D TE, we have |_ SB A = |_ TED; likewise, SB=TE;
therefore, the triangle SAB is equal to the triangle TDE;
hence, SA = TD, and AB = DE. In like manner it
may be shown that SC = TF, and BC = EF. That
granted, the quadrilateral SAOC is equal to the quadri-
lateral TDPF, for, place the angle ASC upon its equal,
DTF, and because SA = TD, and SC= TF, the point A
will fall on D, and the point C on F; and, at the same time,
AO, which is perpendicular to SA, will fall on PD, which
is perpendicular to TD, and, in like manner, OCon PF;
wherefore, the point O will fall on the point P, and A O
will be equal to DP. But the triangles, AOB, DPE, are
right angled at O and P; the hypotenuse AB = DE, and
the side AO = DP; hence, those triangles are equal,
(Cor, Th. 39, B. I), and [_OAB=\_PDE. The angle OAB
is the inclination of the two planes, ASB, ASC; the angle
PDE is that of the two planes, DTE, DTF; conse-
quently, those two inclinations are equal to each other.
Hence the theorem.
Scholium 1. — Tho angles which form the solid angles at Sand 1;
may bo of such relative magnitudes, that the perpendiculars, BO and
EP, may not fall -within the bases, ASC and DTF; but they will
always either fall on the bases, or on the planes of the bases produced,
and 0 will have the same relative situation to A, S, and C, as P has
to D, T, and F. In case that 0 and P fall on the planes of th6 bases
produced, the angles BCO and EFP, would be obtuse angles; but the
demonstration of the problem would not be varied in the least.
Scholium 2. — If the plane angles bounding one of the triedral
angles be equal to those of the other, each to each, and also be simi
larly arranged about the triedral angles, these solid angles will be ab
solutely equal. For it was shewn, in the course of the above demon-
stration, that the quadrilaterals, SAOCand TDPF, were equal; and
on being applied, the point 0 falls on the point P; and since the trian-
gles A OB and DPE are equal, the perpendiculars OB and PE ars
disc equal. Now, because the plane angles are like arranged about
the triedral angles, these perpendiculars lie in the same direction;
hence the point li will fall on the point E, and the solid angles
will exactly coincide.
Scholium 3. — When the planes of the equal angles are not like dis-
posed about the triedral angles, it would not be possible to make these
triedral angles coincide; and still it would be true that the planes of
the equal angles are equally inclined to each other. Hence, these
triedral angles have the plane and diedral angles of the one, equal to
the plane and diedral angles of the other, each to each, without having
of themselves that absolute equality which admits of superposition.
Magnitudes which aro thus equal in all their component parts, but
will not coincide, ween applied the one to the other, are said to be
tymmetrically equal. Thus, two triedral angles, bounded by plane
kuglss equal each to each, but not like placed, are symmetrical triedral
tmglet.
BOOK VII.
SOLID GEOMETET.
DEFINITIONS.
L A Polyedron is a solid, or volume, bounded on ail
-aides by planes. The bounding planes are called the
faces of the polyedron, and theii intersections are its
edges.
2. A Prism is a polyedron, having two of its faces,
called bases, equal polygons, whose planes and homolo-
gous sides are parallel. The other, or lateral faces, are
parallelograms, and constitute the convex surface of the
prism.
The bases of a prism are distinguished by the terms, •
upper and lower; and the altitude of the prism is the per
pendicular distance between its bases.
Prisms are denominated triangular, quadrangular, pent,
angular, etc., according as their bases are triangles, quad-
rilaterals, pentagons, etc.
3. A Right Prism is one in which the planes of the
lateral faces are perpendicular to the planes of the bases.
4. A Parallelopipedon is a prism
whose bases are parallelograms.
5. A Rectangular Parallelopipedon
is a right parallelopipedon, with
rectangular bases.
^
178
/
/
6. A Cube or Hexaedron is a rectangu-
lar parallelopipodon, whose faces are all
equal squares.
7. A Diagonal of a Polyedron is a straight
line joining the vertices of two solid
angles not adjacent.
8. Similar Polyedrons are those which
are bounded by the same number of similar polygons
like placed, and whose homologous solid angles are
equal.
Similar parts, whether faces, edges, diagonals, or
angles, similarly placed in similar polyedrons, are termed
homologous.
9. A Pyramid is a polyedron, having
for one of its faces, called the base, any
polygon whatever, and for its other faces
triangles having a common vertex, the
sides opposite which, in the several trian-
gles, being the sides of the base of the
pyramid.
10. The Vertex of a pyramid is the
common vertex of the triangular faces.
11. The Altitude of a pyramid is the perpendicula*
distance from its vertex to the plane of its base.
12. A Right Pyramid is one whose base is a regular
polygon, and whose vertex is in the perpendicular to the
base at its center. This perpendicular is called the axU
of the pyramid.
. 13. The Slant Height of a right pyramid is the perpen-
dicular distance from the vertex to one of the sides of
the base.
14. The Frustum of a Pyramid is a portion of the pyr-
amid included between its base and a section made by a
plane parallel to the base.
Pyramids, like prisms, are named from the forms of
their bases.

15*
GEOMETRY.

16. A Cylinder is a body, having for
its ends, or bases, two equal circles,
the planes of which are perpendicular
to the line joining their centers; the
remainder of its surface may be con-
ceived as formed by the motion of a
line, which constantly touches the cir-
cumferences of the bases, while it
remains parallel to the line which
joins their centers.
We may otherwise define the cylinder as a body gen-
erated by the revolution of a rectangle about one of its
sides as an immovable axis.
The sides of the rectangle perpendicular to the axis
generate the bases of the cylinder; and the side opposite
the axis generates its convex surface. The line joining
the centers of the bases of the cylinder is its axis, and ia
also its altitude.
If, within the base of a cylinder, any polygon be in-
scribed, and on it, as a base, a right prism be con-
structed, having for its altitude that of the cylinder, such
prism is said to be inscribed in the cylinder, and the cylin-
der is said to circumscribe the prism.
Thus, in the last figure, ABCDEc is an inscribed
prism, and it is plain that all its lateral edges are con
tained in the convex surface of the cylinder. ^
If, about the base of a cylinder, any
polygon be circumscribed, and on it,
as a base, a right prism be con-
structed, having for its altitude that
of the cylinder, such prism is said to
be circumscribed about the cylinder, and
the cylinder is said to be inscribed in
the prism.
Thus, ABClJEFc is a circum- r\
scribed prism; and it is plain that

175

the lino, mn, which joins the points of
tangency of the sides, EF and ef, with
the circumferences of the bases of the
cylinder, is common to the convex sur-
faces of the cylinder and prism.
16. A Cone is a body bounded by a
circle and the surface generated by the
motion of a straight line, which con-
stantly passes through a point in the
perpendicular to the plane of the circle
at its center, and the different points in
its circumference.
The cone may be otherwise defined as a body gene
rated by the revolution of a right-angled triangle about
one of its sides as an immovable axis. The other side
of the triangle will generate the base of the cone, while
the hypotenuse generates the convex surface.
The side about which the generating triangle revolves
is the axis of the cone, and is at the same time its altitude.
If, within the base of the cone, any
polygon be inscribed, and on it, as a
base, a pyramid be constructed, having
for its vertex that of the cone, such
pyramid is said to be inscribed in the
cone, and the cone is said to circumscribe
the pyramid.
Thus, in the accompanying figure,
V—ABCDE, is an inscribed pyramid,
and it is plain that all its lateral edges
are contained in the convex surface of
the cone.
If, about the base of a cone, any poly-
gon be circumscribed, and on it, as a
base, a pyramid be constructed, having
for its vertex that of the cone, such pyramid is said to be
circumscribed about the cone, and the cone is said to be
inscribed in the pyramid.

17. The Frustum of a Cone is the portion of the cone that
is included between its base and a section made by a plane
parallel to the base.
18. Similar Cylinders, and also Similar Cones, are such as
have their axes proportional to the radii of their bases.
19. A Sphere is a body bounded by one uniformly-curvec
surface, all the points of vhicb ire at the 3ame distanc*
from a certain point within, called the .enter.
We may otherwise define the sphere, as a body gene-
rated by the revolution of a semicircle about *ts diameter
as an immovable axis.
20. A Spherical Sector is that
portion of a sphere which is in-
cluded between the surfaces of
two cones having a common
axis, and their vertices at the
center of the sphere. Or, it is
that portion of the sphere which
is generated by a sector of the
generating semicircle.
21. The Radius of a Sphere is
a straight line drawn from the
center to any point in the surface; and the diameter in
a straight line drawn through the center, and limited on
both sides by the surface.
All the diameters of a sphere are equal, each being
twice the radius.
22. A Tangent Plane to a sphere is one which has a
single point in the surface of the sphere, all the others
being without it.
23. A Secant Plane to a sphere is one which has moro
than one point in the surface of the sphere, and lies
partly within and partly without it.
Assuming, what will presently be proved, that the in-
tersection of a sphere by a plane is a circle.
24. A Small Circle of a sphere is one whose plane does
not pass through ite center; and

177
25. A Great Circle of a sphere is one whose plane passes
through the center of the sphere.
26. A Zone of a sphere is the portion of its surface in-
cluded between the circumferences of any two of its paral-
lel circles, called the bases of the zone. When the plane
of one of these circles becomes tangent to the sphere, the
zone has a single base.
27. A Spherical Segment is a portion of the volume of a
sphere included between any two of its parallel circles,
called the bases of the segment.
The altitude of a zone, or of a segment, of a sphere,
is the perpendicular distance between the planes of its
bases.
28. The area of a surface is measured by the product
Of its length and breadth, and these dimensions are always
conceived to be exactly at right angles to each other.
29. In a similar manner, solids are measured by the
product of their length, breadth, and height, when all their
dimensions are at right angles to each other.
The product of the length and breadth of a solid, is
the measure of the surface of its base.
Let P, in the annexed fig-
ure, represent the measuring
unit, and AF the rectangular
solid to be measured.
A side of P is one unit in
length, one in breadth, and
one in height; one inch, one
foot, one yard, or any other unit that may be taken.
Then, 1 x 1 X 1 = 1, the unit cube.
Now, if the base of the solid, AC, is, as here repn •
sented, 5 units in length and 2 in breadth, it is obvious
that (5x2 = 10), 10 units, each equal to P, can be placed
on the base of AC, and no more; and as each of these
units will occupy a unit of altitude, therefore, 2 units of
M

GEOMETRY.
altitude will contain 20 solid units, 3 units of altitude,
30 solid units, and so on; or, in general terms, the num-
ber of square units in the base multiplied by the linear units
in perpendicular altitude, will give the solid units in any rect-
angular solid.
THEOREM I.
If the three plane faces bounding a solid angle of une prism
be equal to the three plane faces bounding a solid angle of
another, each to each, and similarly disposed, the prisms wilt
he equal.
Suppose A and a to be the vertices of two solid angles,
bounded by equal and similarly placed faces; then will
the prisms, ABCDE—N and abode—n, be e.qual.
For, if we place the base,
abode, upon its equal, the base
ABCDE, they will coincide;
and since the solid angles,
whose vertices are A and a, are
equal, the lines ab, ae, and ap,
respectively coincide with AB,
AE, and AP; but the faces, al and ao, of the one prism,
are equal, each to each, to the faces, AL and AO, of the
other; therefore pi and po coincide with PL and PO,
and the upper bases of the prisms also coincide: hence,
not only the bases, but all the lateral faces of the two
prisms coincide, and the prisms are equal.
Cor. If the two prisms are right, and have equal bases
and altitudes, they are equal. For, in this case, the rect-
angular faces, al and ao, of the one, are respectively
equal to the rectangular faces, AL and AO, of the other;
and hence the three faces bounding a triedral angle in
the one, are equal and like placed, to the faces bounding
a triedral angle in the othet


THEOREM II.
The opposite faces of any parallelopipedon axe equal, and
their planes are parallel.
Let ABCD—E be any parallelopipedon; then will ita
opposite faces be equal, and their planes will be parallel,
The bases ABCD and FEGH are
equal, and their planes are parallel,
by definitions 2 and 4 of this Book;
it remains tor us, therefore, only to
show that any two of the opposite
lateral faces are equal and parallel.
Since all the faces of the parallelopipedon are parallel-
ograms, AB is equal and parallel to DC, and AH is also
equal and parallel to DF; hence the angles HAB and
FBC are equal, and their planes are parallel, (Th. 17, B.
VI), and the two parallelograms, HABG and FDCE,
haA'ing two adjacent sides and the included angle of the
one equal to the two adjacent sides and included angle
of the other, are equal.
Cor. 1 Hence, of the six faces of the parallelopipedon,
any two lying opposite may be taken as the bases.
Cor. 2. The four diagonals of a parallelopipedon mutu-
ally bisect each other. For, if we draw AC and HE, we
shall form the parallelogram ACEH, of which the diago-
nals are AE and HC, and these diagonals are at the same
Lime diagonals of the parallelopipedon; but the diagonals
Df a parallelogram mutually bisect each other. Now, if
the diagonal FB be drawn, it and HC will bisect ea;b
other, since they are diagonals of the parallelogram
FHBC. In like manner we can show that if BO- bo
drawn, it will be bisected by AE. Hence, the four diag-
onals have a common point within the parallelopipedon.
ScnoLiuji. — It is seen at once that the six faces of a parallelopipe-
don intersect each other in twelve edges, four of which are equal to
HA, four to AB, and four to AD. Now, we may conceive the parallel-
opipsdon to be bounded by the planes determined by the three lineg
GEOMETK
AH, AB, and AD, and the three planes passed through the extremi
ties, H, B, and D, of these lines, parallel to the first three planes.

M

THEOREM III.
The convex surface of a right prism is measured ty iht
perimeter of its base multiplied by its altitude.
Let ABCDE—If be a right prism, of R
which AP is the altitude; then will its
convex surface he measured by
(AB + BC+CD + DE + EA) x AP.
For, its convex surface is made up of the
rectangles AL, BM, CN, etc., and each
rectangle is measured by the product of
its base by its altitude; but the altitude
of each rectangle is equal to AP, the alti-
tude of the prism; hence the convex sur-
face of the prism is measured by the pro-
duct of the sum of the bases of the rectangles, or the
perimeter of the base of the prism, by the common alti-
tude, AP.
Cor. Kight prisms will have equivalent convex surfaces,
when the products of the perimeters of their bases by
their altitudes are respectively equal; and, generally, their
convex surfaces will be to each other as the products of
the perimeters of their bases by their altitudes. Hence,
if the altitudes are equal, their convex surfaces will be as
the perimeters of their bases; and if the perimeters of
their bases are equal, the;r convex surfaces will be as
their altitudes.
THEOREM IV.
The twc sections of a prism made by parallel planes between
its bases are equal polygons.
Let the prism ABCDE—N be cut between its baser
by two parallel planes, making the sections QMS, etc..
181

and TVX, etc.; theu will these sections
be equal polygons.
For, since the secant planes are paral-
lel, their intersections, QR and TV, by
the plane of the face EAPO are parallel,
(Th. 9, B. VI); and being included be-
tween the parallel lines, AP and EO, they
are also equal. In the same manner we
may prove that MS is equal and parallel
to VX, and so on for the intersections of
the secant planes by the other faces of
the prism. Hence, these polygonal sections have the
sides of the one equal to the sides of the other, each to
each. The angles QRS and TVX are equal, because
their sides are parallel and lie in the same direction; and
in like manner we prove |_ ItSY = |_ VXZ, and so on
for the other corresponding angles of the polygons.
Therefore, these polygons are both mutually equilateral
and mutually equiangular, and consequently are equal.
Cor. A section of a prism made by a plane parallel to
the base of the prism, is a polygon equal to the base.
THEOREM V.
Two parallelopipedons, the one rectangular and the other
oblique, will be equal in volume when, having the same base
and altitude, two opposite lateral faces of the one are in the
planes of the corresponding lateral faces of the other.
Designating the parallelo-
pipedons by their opposite
diagonal letters, let iff be
the rectangular, and AL the
oblique, parallelopipedon, hav-
ing the same base, AC, and
the same altitude, namely,
the perpendicular distance be-

16
rween the parallel pranes, AC and EL. Also let the faje,
AK, be in the plane of the face, AF, and the face, DL, in
the plane of the face, DG. "We are now to prove that the
oblique parallelopipedon is equivalent to tne rectangular
parallelopipedon.
As the faces, AF and AK, are in the same plane, and
the parallelopipedons have the same altitude, EFK is a
straight line, and EF = IK, because each is equal to AB.
If from the whole line, EK, we take EF, and then from
the same line we take IK= EF, we shall have the re-
mainders, Eland FK, equal; and since AE and BFare
parallel, [_AEI = \__BFK; hence the A's, AEI and
BFK, are equal. Since HE and MI are both parallel to
DA, they are parallel to each other, and EIMK is a par-
allelogram; for like reasons, FKLG is a parallelogram,
and these parallelograms are equal, because two adjacent
sides and the included angle of the one are equal to two
adjacent sides and the included angle of the other. The
parallelograms, DE and CF, being the opposite faces of
the parallelopipedon, AG, are equal. Ilence, the three
plane faces bounding the triedral angle, E, of the trian-
gular prism, EAI—H, are equal, each to each, and like
placed, to the three plane faces bounding the triedral angle
F, of the triangular prism, FBK— G, and these prisms
are therefore equal, (Th. 1). Now, if from the whole
solid, EABK—H, we take the prism, EAI—H, there
wiJ remain the parallelopipedon, AL; and, if from the
seme solid, we take the prism, FBK—G, there will remain
the rectangular parallelopipedon, AG. Therefore, the
oblique and the rectangular parallelopipedons are equiva-
lent.
Cor. The volume of the rectangular parallelopipedoL,
AG, is measured by the base, ABCD, multiplied by the
altitude, AE, (Def. 29); consequently, the oblique paral-
lelopipedon is measured by the product of the same base
by the same altitude.
Scholium.--If neither of the parallelopipedons is rectangular, but
they still have the same base and the same altitude, and two opposito
lateral faces of the one are in the planes of the corresponding lateral
faces of the other, by precisely the same reasoning we could prove the
parallelopipedons equivalent. Hence, in general, any two parallelo-
pipedons will be equal in volume when, having the same base and altitude,
two opposite lateral faces of the one are in the planes of the correspond-
ing lateral faces of the other.
THEOREM VI.
Two parallelopipedons having equal bates and equal aid
tudes, are equivalent-
Let A G and AL be two paral- q p n
lelopipedons, having a common ^ \ /\ 7\r
lower base, and their upper bases M|v %k // /
I 11—•' uV / /
in the same plane, HF. Then / j/f/ /
will these parallelopipedons be /[ A A /
equivalent. \[- \l/
Since their upper bases are in • A B
the same plane, and the lines IM and KL are par-
allel, and also EF and IfG, these lines will intersect,
when produced, and form the parallelogram WOPQ,
which will be equal to the common lower basu of
the two parallelopipedons. Now, if a third parallelo-
pipedon be constructed, having BD for its lower base,
and OQ for its upper base, it will be equivalent to the par-
allelopipedon AG, aud also to the parallelopipedon AL,
(Th. 5, Scholium); hence, the two given parallelopipe-
dons, being each equivalent to the third parallelopipe-
dju, arc equivalent to each other.
Hence, two parallelopipedons having equal bases, etc.
THEOREM VII.
The volume of any parallelopipedon is measured by the
product of its base and altitude, or the product of its three
Umensions.
GEOMETRY.
9 G

Let ABCD—G be any parallelopipedon; tJ.en will itt
volume be expressed by the product & g
of the area of its base and altitude.
If the parallelopipedon is oblique,
we may construct on its base a right
parallelopipedon, by erecting perpen-
diculars at the points A, B, C, and D,
and making them each equal to the
altitude of the given parallelopipedon;
and the right parallelopipedon, thus
constructed, will be equivalent to the given parallelopip-
edon, (Th. 6). Now, if the base, ABCD, is a rectangle,
the new parallelopipedon will be rectangular, and meas-
ured by the product of its base and altitude, (Def. 29).
But if the base is not rectangular, let fall the perpen-
diculars, Be and Ad, on CD and CD produced, and take
the rectangle ABcd for the base of a rectangular paral-
lelopipedon, having for its altitude that of the given
parallelopipedon. * We may now regard the rectangular
face, ABFE, as the common base of the two parallelo-
pipedons, Ag and AG-; and, as they have a common
base, and equal altitude, they are equivalent. Thus we
have reduced the oblique parallelopipedon, first to an
equivalent right parallelopipedon on the same base, and
then the right to an equivalent rectangular parallelopip-
edon on an equivalent base, all having the same alti-
tude. But the rectangular parallelopipedon, Ag, ia
measured by product of its base, ABcd, and its altitude;
hence, the given and equivalent oblique parallelopipedon
's measured by the product of its equivalent base and
equal altitude.
Hence, the volume of any parallelopipedon, etc.
Cor. Since a parallelopipedon is measured by the pro-
duct of its base by its altitude, it follows that parallelo
pipedons of equivalent bases, and equal altitudet, are equina
lent, or equal in volume.
THEOREM VIII.
Parallelopipedons on the game, or equivalent bases, are to
each other as their altitudes; and parallelopipedons having
equal altitudes, are to each other as their bases.
Let P and p represent two parallelopipedons, whose
bases are denoted by B and b, and altitudes by A and a,
respectively.
Now, P = B x A, and p = b x a, (Th. 7).
But magnitudes are proportional to their numerical
measures; that is,
P : p :: B x A : b X a.
If the bases of the parallelopipedons are equivalent,
we have B = b; and if the altitudes are equal, we have
A = a. Introducing these suppositions, in succession,
in the above proportion, we get
P : p :: A : a,
and P : p :: B : b.
Hence the theorem; Parallelopipedons on the same, etc.
THEOREM IX.
Similar parallelopipedons are to each other as the cubes of
their like dimensions.
Let P and p represent any two similar parallelopipe-
dons, the altitude of the first being denoted by h, and
the length and breadth of its base by I and n, respect-
ively; and let /*', I', and n', in order, denote the corres-
ponding dimensions of the second.
1 lien we are to prove that
P : p :: w' : n" :: Is : V :: h" : h".
We have
P = Inh, and p = Vn'h' (Th. 7);
and by dividing the first of these equations \j the
second, member by member, we get
16*
P _ Ink
p~ I'n'h''
which, reduced to a proportion, gives
P : p :: Inh : Vrih'.
But, by reason of the similarity of the parallelopipe*
dons, we have the proportions
I : V :: n : ri
h : V :: n : n';
we have also the identical proportion,
n : n' :: n : n'.
By the multiplication of these proportions, term by
term, we get, (Th. 11, B. II),
Inh : Vn'h' :: »' : w".
That is, P : p :: nl : n".
By treating in the same manner the three proportions,
I : I' :: h : h!
n : n' :: h : h'
h : h' :: h : h',
we should obtain the proportion
P : p :: hs : hn;
and, by a like process, the three proportions,
h : V :: I : V
n : n' :: I : V
I : V :: I : I',
will give us the proportion
P : p :: ?: ln.
Hence the theorem; similarparallelopipedons are to each
ither, etc.
THEOREM X.
The two triangular prisms into which any paralkhpipedon
is iivided, by a plane passing through its opposite diagonal
edges, are equivalent.
Let ABCD—F be a parallelopipedon, and through
the diagonal edges, BF and DH, pass the plane BH. divi-
ding the parallelopipedon into the two triangular prisms.
187

ABB-E and BCB—G; then we are to prove that these
prisms an equivalent. Let us divide
the diagonal, BD, in which the se-
cant plane intersects the base of the
parallelopipedon, into three equal
parts, a and c being the points of
division. In the base, ABCD,con-
struct the complementary paral-
lelograms, aCand aA, and in the
parallelogram, badD, construct the
complementary parallelograms,
cd and cb, and conceive these, to-
gether with the parallelograms,
Ba, ac, cD, to be the bases of
smaller parallelopipedons, having
their lateral faces parallel to the
lateral faces of, and their altitude equal to the altitude oS,
the given parallelopipedon, A G.
Now it is evident that the triangular prism, BCD—G,
is composed of the parallelopipedons on the bases, aC
and cd, and the triangular prisms, on the side of the
secant plane with this prism, into which this plane divides
the parallelopipedons on the bases, Ba, ac, and cD. The
triangular prism, ABD—E, is also composed of the par-
allelopipedons on the bases, Aa and be, together with the
triangular prisms on the side of the secant plane with
this prism, into which this plane divides the parallelopip-
edons on the bases, Ba, ac, and cD.
But the parallelograms, aC and aA, being complement
aiy, are equivalent, (Th. 31, B. I); and for the same
reason the parallelograms, cd and cb, are equivalent; and
Bince parallelopipedons on equivalent bases and of equal
altitudes, are equivalent, (Cor., Th. 7), we have the sum
of parallelopipedons on bases aC and cd, equivalent to
the sum of parallelopipedons on the bases, a A and cb.
Hence, the triangular prisms, ABD—E and BCD—G-,
differ in volume only by the difference which may exifii
between the sums of the triangular prisms on the two
Bides of the secant plane into which this plane divides
the parallelopipedous on the bases, Ba, ac, and cd.
Now, if the number of equal parts into which the diag-
onal is divided, be indefinitely multiplied, it still holds
true that the triangular prisms, ABD—E and BCD—G,
iliffer in volume only by the difference between the sum*
of the triangular prisms on the two sides of the secant
plane into which this plane divides the parallelopipedona
constructed on the bases whose diagonals are the equal
portions of the diagonal, BD. But in this case the sum
of these parallelopipedons themselves becomes an indefi-
nitely small part of the whole parallelopipedon, AG, and
the difference between the parts of an indefinitely small
quantity must itself be indefinitely small, or less than
any assignable quantity. Therefore, the triangular
prisms, ABD—E and BCD—G, differ in volume by less
than any assignable volume, and are consequently equiv-
alent.
Hence the theorem; the two triangular prisms into which,
etc.
Cor. 1. Any triangular prism, as ABD—E, is one half
the parallelopipedon having the same triedral angle, A,
and the same edges, AB, AD, and AE.
Cor. 2. Since the volume of a parallelopipedon is meas-
ured by the product of its base and altitude, and the tri-
angular prisms into which it is divided by the diagonal
plane, have bases equivalent to one half the base of the
parallelopipedon, and the same altitude, it follows that,
the volume of a triangular prism is measured by the product
of its base and altitude.
The above demonstration is less direct, but is thought
to be more simple, than that generally found in authors.
and which is here given as a
189

Second Demonstration
Let A BCD—.Fbe a parallelo-
pipedon, divided by the diagonal
plane, BB, passing through the
edges, BF and DB; then we are
to prove that the triangular
pnsins, ABD—E and BCD—a,
thus formed, are equivalent.
Through the points B and F,
pass planes perpendicular to the
edge, BF, and produce the late-
ral faces of the parallelopipedon
to intersect the plane through B;
then the sectionb Boda and Fghe
are equal parallelograms. For, since the cutting plane*
are both perpendicular to BF, they are parallel, (Th. 10,
B. VI); and because the opposite faces of a parallelo-
pipedon are in parallel planes, (Th. 2), and the intersec-
tions of two parallel planes by a third plane are parallel,
(Th. 9, B. VI), the sections, Bcda and Fghe, are equal
parallelograms, and may be taken as the bases of the
right parallelopipedon, Bcda—h. But the diagonal plane
divides the right parallelopipedon into the two equal tri-
angular prisms, aBd—e and Bed—g, (Th. 1). We will
now compare the right prism with the oblique triangular
prism on the same side of the diagonal plane.
The volume ABD — e is common to the two prisms,
ABD—E md aBd—e; and tbe volume eFh—E, which,
fcdded to this common part, forms the oblique triangular
prism, is equal to the volume aBd—A, which, added to
the common part, forms the right triangular prism. For,
since ABFE and aBFe are parallelograms, AE = ae, and
taking away the common part Ae, we have aA=eE; and
since BFBD and BFhd are parallelograms, we have DB
= dh; and from these equals taking away the common
part Dh, we have dD = hH. Now, if the volume eFh—B
be applied to the volume aBd—D, the base eFh felling
on the equal base aBd, the edges eE and hS will fall
upon aA and dD respectively, because they are perpen-
dicular to the base aBd, (Cor. 2, Th. 3, B. VI), and the
point E will fall upon the point A, and the point H upon
the point 2>; hence the volume eFh—H exactly coincides
with the volume aBd—D, and the oblique triangular
prisir. ABD—E is equivalent to the right triangulai
pridm aBd—e.
In the same manner, it may be proved that the obliqui
triangular prism, BCDG-, is equivalent to the right tri-
angular prism, Bcdg. The oblique triangular prism on
eitner side of the diagonal plane is, therefore, equivalent
to the corresponding right triangular prism; and, as tho
two right triangular prisms are equal, the oblique trial
guiar prisms are equivalent.
Hence the theorem; the two triangular prisms, etc.
THEOREM XI.
The volume of any prism whatever is measured by the prod
uet of the area of its base and altitude.
For, by passing planes through the homologous diag-
onals of the upper and lower bases of the prism, it will
be divided into a number of triangular prisms, each of
which is measured by the product of the area of its base
and altitude. Now, as these triangular prisms all have,
for their common altitude, the altitude of the given
prism, when we add the measures of the triangular
prisms, to get that of the whole prism, we shall have,
for this measure, the common altitude multiplied by the
sum of the areas of the bases of the triangular prisms:
that is, the product of the area of the polygonal base
and the altitude of the prism.
Henee the theorem; the volume of any prism, etc.
Cor. If A denote the area of the base, and H tha alt*
tilde of a prism, its volume will be expressed by A x E.
Calling this volume V, we have
F= A x E.
. Denoting by A', E', and V, in order, the area of the
base, altitude, and volume of another prism, we have
V = A' x E>.
Dividing the first of these equations by the second,
D ember by member, we have
V ~ A' x E''
which gives the proportion,
V: V :: AxE : A' xE'.
If the bases are equivalent, this proportion becomes
V: V :: E: E';
aui if the altitudes are equal, it reduces to
V: V :: A : A'.
Hence, prisms of equivalent bates are to each other at
their altitudes; and prisms of equal altitudes are to each other
as their bases.
THEOREM XII.
A plane passed through a pyramid parallel to its base,
divides its edges and altitude proportionally, and makes a
lection, which is a polygon similar to the base.
Let ABCDE—Vhe any pyramid, whose base is in the
plane, MN, and vertex in the parallel plane, mn; and let
a plane be passed through the pyramid, parallel to its
base, cutting its edges at the points, a b, c, d, e, and the
altitude, EF, at the point I. By joining the points, a, b,
c, etc., we have the polygon formed by the intersection
of the plane and the sides of the pyramid. Now, we are
to prove that the edges, VA, VB, etc., and the altitude,
FE, are divided proportionally at the points, a, b, etc.,
and I; and that the polygon, a, b, e, d, e, is similar to the
base of the pyramid.
GEOMETRY.

bince the cutting plane is parallel to the base of th«
uyramid, ab is parallel to AB, (Th. 9, B. VI); for the
same reason, be is parallel to BC, cd to CD, etc. Now,
in the triangle VAB, because ab is parallel to the base
AB, we have, (Th. 17, B. II), the proportion,
VA : Va :: VB : Vb.
In like manner, it may be shown that
VB : Vb :: VC: Vc,
and so on for the other lateral edges of the pyramid. F
being the point in which the perpendicular from E pierces
tbe plane mn, and I the point in which the parallel secant
plane cuts the perpendicular, if we join the points F and
V, and also the points I and e by straight lines, we have
in the triangle EFV, the line le parallel to the base FV;
hence the proportion
VE : Ve :: FE : Fl.
Therefore, the plane passed through the pyramid par-
allel to its base, divides the altitude into parts which have
to each other the same ratio as the parts into which it
divides the edges.
Again, since ab is parallel to AB, and be to BO, the
angle abc is equal to the angle ABC, (Th. 17, B. VI.); in
the same manner we may show that each angle in the
polygon, abode, is equal to the corresponding angle in the
polygon, ABCDE; therefore these polygons are mutually
equiangular. But, because the triangles VBA and Vba
are similar, their homologous sides give the proportion
Vb : VB :: ab : AB;
and because the triangles Vbe and VBO are similar, we
also have the proportion
Vb : VB :: be : BC.
Since the first couplets in these two proportions are the
same, the second couplets are proportional, and give
ab : AB :: be : BC.
By a like process, we can prove that
be : BC :: cd : OB,
and that cd : CD :: de : DE,
and so on, for the other homologous sides of the two
polygons.
Hence, the two polygons are not only mutually equi-
angular, but the sides about the equal angles taken in the
same order are proportional, and the polygons are there-
fore similar, (Def. 16, B. II).
Hence the theorem; a plane passed through a pyramid,
etc.
Cor. 1. Since the areas of similar polygons are to each
other as the squares of their homologous sides, (Th. 22,
B II), we have
area abode : area ABCDE : ab* : AB'. .
. But, ab : AB :: Va : VA :: Fl : FE;
hence, ab' : AB* :: Jf : FE*:
therefore, area abode : area ABCDE : Fl* : FE*
17 N
That is, the area of a section parallel to the base of a
pyramid, is to the area of the base, as the square of the
perpendicular distance from the vertex of the pyramid to
the section, is to the square of the altitude of the pyramid.
Cor. 2. Let V—ABCDE and X—RST be two pyra-
mids, having their bases in the plane MN, and their ver-
tices in the parallel plane mn; and suppose a plane to be
passed through the two pyramids parallel to the common
plane of their bases, making in the one the section abode,
and in the other the section rst.
Now, area ABCDE: area abode ::AB*: aV, (Th.22,B.II),
and" RST:" rst:: RS*: rV.
But, AB : ab :: VB : Vb,
and RS : rs :: XR : Xr.
Because the plane which makes the sections is parallel
to the planes MN and mn, we have, (Th. 11, B. VI),
VB : Vb :: XR : Xr;
therefore, (Cor. 2, Th.6,B.II), AB:ab::BS: rs.
By squaring, AB' : ab* : RS* : rs*;
hence, area ABCDE: area abode :: area BST: area ra.
That is, if two pyramids having equal altitudes, and their
bases in the same plane, be cut by a plane parallel to the com-
mon plane of their bases, the areas of the sections will be
proportional to the areas of the bases; and if the bases are
equivalent, the sections will also be equivalent.
THEOREM XIII.
If two triangular pyramids have equivalent bases ana
equal altitudes, they are equal in volume.
Let V— ABC and v—abc be two triangular pyraujda,.
having the equivalent bases, ABC and abc, and let the
altitude of each be equal to CX; then will thes* two
pyramids be equivalent.
IW


Place the bases of the pyramids on the same plane,
with their vertices in the same direction, and divide the
altitude into any number of equal parts. Through the
points of division pass planes parallel to the plane of the
bases; the corresponding sections made in the pyramids
by these planes are equivalent, (Th. 12, Cor. 2); that is,
the triangle DEF is equivalent to the triangle def, the
triangle G'BTI to the triangle gld, etc.
Now, let triangular prisms be constructed on the tri-
angles ABC, DEF, etc., of the pyramid V— ABC, these
prisms having their lateral edges parallel to the edge,
VC, of the pyramid, and the equal parts of the altitude,
OX, for their altitudes. Portions of these prisms will be
exterior to the pyramid V—ABC, and the sum of theix
volumes will exceed the volume of the pyramid.
On the bases def gld, etc., in the other pyramid, con-
struct interior prisms, as represented in the figure,
their lateral edges being parallel to vc, and their alti-
tudes also the equal parts of the altitude, CX. Portions
of the pyramid, v—abc, will be exterior to these prisms
and the volume of the pyramid will exceed the sum of
the volumes of the prisma.
Since the sum of the exterior prisms, constructed in
connection with the pyramid V—ABC, is greater than
the pyramid, and the sum of the interior prisms, con-
structed in connection with the pyramid v—abc, is less
than this pyramid, it follows that the difference of these
lunie is greater than the difference of the pyramids them-
selves. But the second exterior prism, or that on the
base DEF, is equivalent to the first interior prism, or
that on the base def, and the third exterior prism is
equivalent to the second interior prism, (Th. 10, Cor. 2),
and so on. That is, beginning with the second prism from
the base of the pyramid, V—ABC, and taking these
prisms in order towards the vertex of the pyramid, and
comparing them with the prisms in the pyramid, v—abc,
beginning with the lowest, and taking them in order
toward the vertex of this pyramid, we find that to each
exterior prism of the pyramid, V—ABC, exclusive of
the first or lowest, there is a corresponding equivalent
interior prism in the pyramid, v—abc.
Ilence the prism, ABCDEF, is the difference between
the sum of the prisms constructed in connection with
the pyramid, V—ABC, and the sum of the interior
prisms constructed in the pyramid, v—abc. But the first
sum being a volume greater than the pyramid, V—ABC,
and the second sum a volume less than the pyramid,
v—afc, it follows that the volumes of the pyramids differ
by less than the prism, ABCDEF.
Now, however great the number of equal parts into
wnich the altitude, CX, be divided, and the correspond-
ing number of prisms constructed in connection with
each pyramid, it would still be true that the difference
between the volumes of the pyramids would be less than
the volume of the lowest prism of the pyramid V— ABC;
out when we make the number of equal parts into which
the altitude 13 divided indefinitely great, the vok me ot
this prism becomes indefinitely small: that is, the differ-
ence between the volumes of the pyramids is less thau
an indefinitely small volume; or, in other words, thero
is no assignable difference between the two pyramids,
and they are, therefore, equivalent.
Ilence the theorem; if two triangular pyramids, etc.
THEOREM XIV.
Any triangular pyramid is or^ third of the triangw' tr
prism having the same base and equal altitude.
Let F—ABC be a triangular pyramid, and througa F
pass a plane parallel to the plane of the base, ABO. la
this plane, through F, construct the
triangle, FDE, having its sides, FD, E
DE, and EF, parallel and equal to BC, /v<n[ j/i
CA, and AB, respectively. The tri- / \yf\ J
angle, FDE, may be taken as the / V/A /
upper base of a triangular prism of \ / / \y
which the lower base is ABC. v\. 1/
Now, this triangular prism is com- b
posed of the given triangular pyramid,
F—ABC, and of the quadrangular p/ramid, F—ACDE.
This last pyramid may be divided by a plane through the
three points, C, E, and F, into thy two triangular pyra-
mids, F—DEC and F—ACE. But the pyramid, F—
DEC, may be regarded as h?,ring the triangle, EFB,
equal to the triangle, ABC, for its base, and the point, O,
for its vertex. The two pyramids, F—ABC and C—DEF,
have equal bases and equal altitudes; they are therefore
equivalent, (Th. 13). Again, the two pyramids, F—DEQ
and F—A CE, have a common vertex, and equivalent bases
in tie same plane, and they are also equivalent. Theie-
fore, the triangular prism, ABCDEF, is composed if
17*
GEOMETRY.
three 'equivalent triangular pyramids, one of which is th«
given 'xiangular pyramid, F—ABC.
Heiico the theorem; any triangular pyramid is one third
of the triangular prism, etc.
Cor. The volume of the triangular prism heing meas-
ured by the product of its base and altitude, the volume of
a triangular pyramid is measured by one third of the product
of its base and altitude.
THEOREM XV.
The volume of any pyramid whatever is measured by one
third of the product of its base and altitude.
Let V—ABCDE be any pyramid; then will its volume
be measured by one third of the product of its base and
altitude.
In the base of the pyramid, draw the
diagonals, AD and AC, and through
its vertex and these diagonals, pass
planes, thus dividing the pyramid into
a number of triangular pyramids
having the common vertex F, and the
altitude of the given pyramid for their
common altitude.
Now, each of these triangular pyra-
mids is measured by one third of
the product of its base and altitude,
(Cor., Th. 14), and their sum, which
constitutes the polygonal pyramid, is
therefore measured by one third of
the product of the sum of the trian-
gular bases and the common altitude; but the sum of too
'triangular bases constitutes the polygonal base, ABCDE
Hence the theorem; the volume of any pyramid what-
ever, etc.
Cor. 1. Denote, by B, H, and V, respectively, the base,
altitude, and volume of one pyramid, and by B', B7, and

V, the base, altitude, and volume of another; then wo
shall have
V=\Bx ff,
and V = W x H'.
Dividing the first of these equations by the second,
member bj member, we have
V _B x H
V B'x H''
which, in the form of a proportion, gives
V: V :: B X H: B' X E>.
From this proportion we deduce the following conse-
quences:
1st. Pyramids are to each other as the products of their
bases and altitudes.
2d. Pyramids having equivalent bases are to each other a*
their altitudes.
3d. Pyramids having equal altitudes are to each other as
their bases.
Cor. 2. Since a prism is measured by the product of
its base and altitude, and a pyramid by one third of the
product of its base and altitude, we conclude that any
pyramid is one third of a prism having an equivalent base and
equal altitude
THEOREM XVI.
The volume of the frustum of a pyramid is equivalent to
the sum of the volumes of three pyramids, each of which hat
an altitude equal to that of the frustum, and whose bases arty
respectively, the lower base of the frustum, the upper base of
the frustum, and a mean proportional between these bases.
Let V—ABCDE and X—RST be two pyramids, the
one polygonal and the other triangular, having equiva-
lent bases and equal altitudes; and let their bases be
placed on the plane MN, their vertices falling on the
parallel plane mn. Pass through the pyramids a plane

parallel to the common plane of their bases, cutting oat
the sections abode and rst; these sections are equivalent,
(Th. 12, Cor. 2), and the pyramids, V—abode and X—rat,
are equivalent, (Th. 13). Now, since the pyramids,
V—ABCDE and X—RST, are equivalent, if from the
first we take the pyramid, V—abode, and from the second,
'the pyramid, X—rst, the remainders, or the frusta.
ABCDE—a and RST—r, will be equivalent.
If, then, we prove the theorem in the case of the frus-
tum of a triangular pyramid, it will be proved for the
frustum of any pj'ramid whatever.
Let ABO—D be the frustum of a
triangular pyramid. Through the
points D, B, and 0, pass a plane,
and through the points D, C, and
E, pass another, thus dividing the
frustum into three triangular pyra-
mids, viz., D—ABC, O—DEF, and
D—BEC.
Wow, the first of these has, for its

base, the lower base of the frustum, and for its altitude
the altitude of the frustum, since its vertex is in the
upper base; the second has, for its base, the upper base
of the frustum, and for its altitude the altitude of the
frustum, since its vertex is in the lower base. Hence,
these are two of the three pyramids required by the
enunciation of the theorem; and we have now only to
prove that the third is equivalent to one having, for its
basa, a mean proportional between the bases of the frus-
tum, and an altitude equal to that of the frustum.
In the face ABED, draw HD parallel to BE, and
uraw HE and HC. The two pyramids, D—BEC and
H—BEC, are equivalent, since they have a common
base and equal altitudes, their vertices being in the line
DH, which is parallel to the plane of their common
base, (Th. 7, B. VI). We may, therefore, substitute the
pyramid, H—BEC, for the pyramid, D—BEC. But the
triangle, BCH, may be taken as the base, and E as the
vertex of this new pyramid; hence, it has the required
altitude, and we must now prove that it has the required
base.
The triangles, ABC and HBC, have a common vertex,
and their bases in the same line; hence, (Th. 16, B. II),
A ABC: A HBC :: AB : HB :: AB : DE. (1)
In the triangles, DEF and HBC, [_ E = [_ B, ami
DE=HB; hence, if DEE be applied to HBC, [_ E fall-
ing on |_ B, and the side DE on HB, the point D wi 11
lull en H, and the triangles, in this position, will have a
common vertex, H, and their bases in the same line;
hence,
A HBC: A DEF :: BO: EF. (2)
But, because the triangles, ABC and DEF, are similar,
«ve nave
AB , DE :: BC : EF. (3)
From proportions (1), (2), and (3), we have> (Th, 6*,
B II),

A ABC: A BBC :: A BBC: A DEF'.
that is, the base, BBC, ia a mean proportional between
the lower and upper bases of the frustum.
Hence the theorem; the volume of the frustum of a pyra-
mid, etc.
THEOREM XVII.
202 GEOMETRY.
Hit perimeter of its base, multiplied by one half its slant height.
Let S—ABCDEF be a right pyramid,
of which SB is the slant height; then will
its convex surface have, for its measure,
ISB(AB + BC+ CD + DE+ EF+ FA).
Since the base is a regular polygon, and
the perpendicular, drawn to its plane from
S, passes through its center, the edges,
SA, SB, SC, etc., are equal, (Th. 4, B. VI), f~t%
and the triangles SAB, SBC, etc., are equal, and isosceles,
each having an altitude equal to SB.
Now, AB x %SE measures the area of the triangle,
SAB; and BC x %SH measures the area of the triangle,
SBC; and so on, for the other triangular faces of the
pyramid. By the addition of these different measures,
we get
\SB{AB + BC+CD + DE + EF + FA),
as the measure of the total convex surface of the pyramid.
Hence the theorem; the convex surface of any right
pyramid, etc.
THEOREM XVIII.
The convex surface of the frustum of any right pyramid u
measured by the sum of the perimeters of the two bases, mul
Hplied by one half the slant height of the frustum.
Let ABCDEF—d be the frustum of a right pyramid;
!hen will its convex surface be measured by
\Hh{AB-t BC+aD*irDE-\ EF+FA+ab+bc+cd+de+ef+fa).
20fi

For, the upper base, abcdef, of the
frustum is a section of a pyramid
by a plane parallel to the lower
base, (Def. 14), and is, therefore,
similar to the lower base, (Th. 12).
But the lower base is a regular
polygou, (Def. 12); hence, the up-
per base is also a regular polygon,
<f the same name; and as ab and
AB are intersections of a face of
the pyramid by two parallel planes, A H B
they are parallel. For the same reason, be is parallel to
BC, cd to CD, etc., and the lateral faces of the frustum
are all equal trapezoids, each having an altitude equal
to Hli, the slant height of the frustum.
The trapezoid ABba has, for its measure, \B\h (AB+ab),
(Th. 34, Book I); the trapezoid BCcb has, for its meas-
ure, \Bli(BC + be), and so on, for the other lateral faces
of the frustum.
Adding all these measures, we find, for their sum.
which is the whole convex surface of the frustum,
IHh {AB+ B C+ CD+DE+EF+ FA+ab+bc+cd+de+ef+fa).
Elence the theorem; the convex surface of the frustum,
THEOREM XIX.
The volumes of similar triangular prisms are to each other
as the cubes constructed on their homologous edges.
Let ABC—F ana
iba—fbe two similar
triangular prisms;
then will their vol-
umes be to each
other as the cubes,
whose edges are the
homologous edges

AB and ab, or as the cubes, whose edges are the horaol
ogous edges BE and be, etc. Since the prisms are similar,
the solid angles, whose vertices are B and b, are equal;
and the smaller prism, when so applied to the larger that
these solid angles coincide, will take, within the larger,
the position represented by the dotted lines. In this
position of the prisms, draw EH perpendicular to the
plane of the base ABC, and join the foot of the peipen-
dicular to the point B, and in the triangle BEH draw,
through e, the line eh, parallel to EH; then will EM
represent the altitude of the larger prism, and eh that of
the smaller.
Now, as the bases ABC and aBc, are homologous faces,
they are similar, and we have, (Th. 20, Book II),
A ABC: A aBc :: AB* :~aB' (1)
But the A's BE H and Beh are equiangular, and there
fore similar, and their homologous sides give the propor-
tion
BE : Be :: EH: eh (2)
and from the homologous sides of the similar faces,
ABED and aBed, we also have
BE : Be :: AB : aB (3)
x'roportions (2) and (3), having an antecedent and con
^sequent the same in both, we have, (Th. 6, B. IT),
EH : eh :: AB : aB (4)
By the multiplication of proportions (1) and (4), tenv
hy term, we get
A ABC X EH: A aBc X eu :: AB*: aB"
But A ABC X EH measures the volume of the larger
prism, and A aBc X eh measures the volume of the
imaller.
Hence the theorem; the volumes of similar triangular
vrisms. etc.
Cor. 1. Tlie volumes of two similar prisms having any
bases whatever, are to each other as the cubes constructed on
their homologous edges.
For, if planes be passed through any one of the lateral
edges, and the several diagonal edges, of one of these
prisms, this prism will be divided iuto a number of smaller
triangular prisms. Taking the homologous edge of the
other prism, and passing planes through it and the seve-
ral diagonal edges, this prism will also be divided into
the same number of smaller triangular prisms, similar to
those of the first, each to each, and similarly placed.
Now, the similar smaller prisms, being triangular, are
to each other as the cubes of their homologous edges;
and being like parts of the larger prisms, it follows that
the larger prisms are to each other as the cubes of the
homologous edges of any two similar smaller prisms. But
the homologous edges of the similar smaller prisms are
to each other as the homologous edges of the given
prisms; hence we conclude that the given prisms are to
each other as the cubes of their homologous edges.
Cor. 2. The volumes of two similar pyramids having any
bases whatever, are to each other as the cubes constructed on
their homologous edges.
For, since the pyramids are similar, their bases are
similar polygons; and upon them, as bases, two similar
prisms may be constructed, having for their altitudes, the
altitudes of their respective pyramids, and their lateral
edges parallel to any two homologous lateral edges of the
yramids.
N ow, these similar prisms are to each other as the subes
of their homologous edges, which may be taken as the
homologous sides of their bases, or as their lateral edges,
which were taken equal and parallel to any two arbitrarily
assumed homologous lateral edges of the two pyramids;
hence the pyramids which are thirds of their respective
prisms, are to each other as the cubes constructed on any
two homologous edges.
IS
GEOMETRY.
Cor. 3. The volumes of any two similarpolyedront art f«
tach other as the cubes constructed on their homologous edges.
For, by passing planes through the vertices of the
homologous solid angles of such polyedrons, they may
both be divided into the same number of triangular
pyramids, those of the one similar to those of the other,
each to each, and similarly placed.
Now, any two of these similar triangular pyramids are
to each other as the cubes of their homologous edges;
and being like parts of their respective polyedrons, it
follows that the polyedrons are to each other as the cubes
of the homologous edges of any two of the similar tri-
angular pyramids into which they may be divided. But
the homologous edges of the similar triangular pyramids
are to each other as the homologous edges of the poly-
edrons; hence the polyedrons are to each other as the
cubes of their homologous edges.
THEOREM XX.
The convex surface of the frustum of a cone is measured
by the product of the slant height and one half the sum of
the circumferences of the bases of the frustum.
Let ABCD—abed be the frustum of A
s cone; then will its convex surface be
(circ. OC + circ. oc)
2'
neasured by via x
n which the expression, circ. OC, de
notes the circumference of the circle
of which OC is the radius. Inscribe in
the lower base of the frustum, a regu-
lar polygon haviDg any number of
sides, and in the upper base a similar
polygon, having its sides parallel to
those of the polygon in the lower base.
af o \e .
b
1 1 m
Je
D
\J °
J/°
These polygons
may be takv.n as the bases of the rrustuin of a right
pyramid inscribed in the frustum of the cone.
Now, however great the number of sides of the in-
scribed polygons, the convex surface of the frustum of
the pyramid is measured by its slant height multiplied by
one half the sum of the perimeters of its two bases,
(Th. 18); but when we reach the limit, by making the
number of sides of the polygon indefinitely great, the
slant height, perimeters of the bases, and convex surface
of the frustum of the pyramid become, severally, the
slant height, circumferences of the bases, and convex sur-
face of the frustum of the cone.
Hence the theorem; the convex surface of the frustum,
etc.
Oor. 1. If we make oc = OC, and, consequently, circ.
*c = circ. OC, the frustum of the cone becomes a cylin-
der, and the half sum of the circumferences of the bases
jecomes the circumference of either base of the cylinder,
and the slant height of the frustum, the altitude of the
cylinder. Hence, the convex surface of a cylinder is meas-
ured by the circumference of the base multiplied by the alti-
tude of the cylinder.
Cor. 2. If we make oc = 0, the frustum of the cone
becomes a une. Hence, the convex surface of a cone is
measured by the circumference of the base multiplied by one
half the slant height of the cone.
Cor. 3. If through E, the middle point of Cc, the line
Ff be drawn parallel to Oo, and Em perpendicular to
Oo, the line oc being produced, to meet If at/, we have,
because the A's EFC and Efc are equal,
Em - °° + °C.
A
if we multiply both members of this equation by 2*.
wo have
2*.Em ~ **JOC+2*.oo.
GEOMETRY.
that is, circ. Em is equal to one half the sum of the cir
, cumferences of the two bases of the frustum. Hence, tht
convex surface of the frustum of a cone is measured by the
circumference of the section made by a plane half way between
the two bases, and parallel to them, multiplied by the slant
height of the frustum.
Cor. 4. If the trapezoid, OCco, be revolved about Oo
as an axis, the inclined side, Cc, will generate-the con-
vex surface of the frustum of a cone, of which the slant
height is Cc, and the circumferences of the bases are circ.
OC and circ. oc. Hence, if a trapezoid, one of whose sides
is perpendicular- to the two parallel sides, be revolved about
the perpendicular side as an axis, it will generate the frustum
of a cone, the inclined side opposite the axis generating the
convex surface, and the parallel sides the bases of the frustum.
THEOREM XXI.
The volume of a cone is measured by the area of its bos*
multiplied by one third of its altitude.
Let V—ABC, etc., be a cone; then
will its volume be measured by area
ABC, etc., multiplied by \VO.
Inscribe, in the base of the cone, any
regular polygon, as ABCDEF, which
may be taken as the base of a right pyra-
mid, of which V is the vertex. The
volume of this inscribed pyramid will Afc
iav<\ for its measure, (Th. 15),
polygon ABCDEF x \ VO.
Now, however great the number of sides of the pol ;-
gon inscribed in the base of the cone, it will still hoid
true that the pyramid of which it is the base, and who*e
vertex is V, will be measured by the area if the poly-
gon, multiplied by one third of VO; but when w«
reach the limit, by making the number of sides iudefi

nitely great, the polygon becomes the i*vcle in which it
is inscribed, and the pyramid become +he cone.
Hence the theorem; the volume of a cone, etc.
Cor. 1. Jf R denote the radius of the base of a 2one,
and H its altitude, or axis, its volume will be expressed
\H x *R';
hen^i, if V and V designate the volumez of two cones,
of which R and R' are the radii of the bases, and H an J
II' the altitudes, we have
V: V:: £ZTx *i2* : ^H' x *R" :: Rx«R7: H> x *R".
From this proportion we conclude,
First. That coneg having equal altitudes are to each other
as their bases.
Second. That cones having equal bases are to each other
as their altitudes.
Cor. 2. Retaining the notation above, we have
Yl El RH- m
V H * R*'
auvt, if the two cones are similar,
H: H' :: R : R';
H' R' , H" R"
0T' S = R, henCe' "&--&,
By substituting for the factors, in the second member
of eq. (1), their values successively, and i esolving into a
proportion, we get
V: V :: Rl : R";
and V: V :: H* : H'1.
Hence, similar cones are to each other as the cubes of tkt
radii of their bases, and also as the Tubes of their altitudes.
Cor. 3. A cone is equivalent to a pyramid having an equiv-
alent base and an equal altitude,
18* o
GEOMETRY

THEOREM XXII.
The volume of the frustum of a cone is equivalent to (hi
turn of the volumes of three cones, having for their common
altitude the altitude of the frustum, and for their several
bases, the bases of the frustum and a mean proportional be-
tween them.
Let ABCD—abed be the frustum of a
cone; then will its volume be equiva-
lent to the sum of the volumes, having
Oo fir their common altitude, and for
their bases, the circles of which, OC, oc,
and a mean proportional between OC
and oc, are the respective radii.
Inscribe in the lower base of the frus-
tum any regular polygon, and in the
upper base a similar polygon, having
its sides parallel to those of the first. These polygons
may be taken as the bases of the frustum of a right pyra-
mid inscribed in the frustum of the cone.
The volume of the frustum of the pyramid is equiva-
lent to the sum of the volumes of three pyramids, having
for their common altitude the altitude of the frustum,
and for their several bases the bases of the frustum, and
a mean proportional between them, (Th. 16).
Now, however great the number of sides of the poly-
gons inscribed in the bases of the frustum of the cone,
this measure for the volume of the frustum of the pyra-
mid, of which they are the bases, still holds true; but
when we reach the limit, by making the number of the
sides of the polygon indefinitely great, the polygons be-
come the circles, the frustum of the pyramid becomes
the frustum of the cone, and the three partial pyramids,
whose sum is equivalent to the frustum of the pyramid,
become three partial cones, whose sum is equivalent to
the frustum of the cone.
211
Hence the theorem; the volume of the frustum of a cone, etc.
Cor. 1. Let R denote the radius of the lower base, R'
that of the upper base, and H the altitude of the frustum
of a cone; then will its volume be measured, (Th. 21), by
%H x *i2J + iS x *Rn + iHx *R x R',
since *R x R' expresses the area of a circle which is a
mean proportional between the two circles, whose radii
are R and R'.
Now, if the bases of the frustum become equal, or
R ~ R', the frustum becomes a cylinder, and each of the
iast two terms in the above expression for the volume of
the frustum of a cone will be equal to the, first; hence,
the volume of a cylinder, of which H is the altitude, and
R the radius of the base, is measured by H x *R'.
Therefore, the volume of a cylinder is measured by the
area of its base multiplied by its altitude.
Cor. 2. By a process in all respects similar to that pur-
sued in the case of cones, it may be shown that similar
cylinders are to each other as the cubes of the radii of their
bases, and also as the cubes of their altitudes.
Cor. 3. A cylinder is equivalent to a prism having an
equivalent base and an equal altitude.
THEOREM XXIli.
If a plane be passed through a sphere, the section will be a
circle.
Let 0 be the center of a sphere
through which a plane is passed,
making the section AmBn; then
will this section be a circle.
From O let fall the perpendic-
ular Oo upon the secant plane,
and draw the radii OA, OB, and
0?n, to different points in the
intersection of the plane with
the surface of the sphere. Now,

the oblique lines OA, OB, Om, are all equal, being ladL
of the sphere; they therefore meet the plane at equal dis
tances from the foot of the perpendicular Oo, (Cor., Th. 4,
B.VI); hence oA, oB, om, etc., are equal: that is, all the
points in the intersection of the plane with the surface of
the sphere are equally distant from the point O. This
intersection is therefore the circumference of a circle of
which o is the center.
Hence the theorem; if a plane be passed through a
sphere, etc.
Cor. 1. Since AB, the diameter of the section, is a chord
of the sphere, it is less than the diameter of the sphere;
except when the plane of the section passes through the
center of the sphere, and then its diameter becomes the
diameter of the sphere. Hence,
1. All great circles of a sphere are equal.
2. Of two small circles of a sphere, that is the greatet
whose plane is the less distant from the center of the sphere.
3. All the small circles, of a sphere whose planes are at the
same distance from the center, are equal.
Cor. 2. Since the planes of all great circles of a sphere
pass through its center, the intersection of two great
circles will be both a diameter of the sphere and a com-
mon diameter of the two circles. Hence, two great circlet
of a sphere bisect each other.
Cor. 3. A great circle divides the volume of a sphere, and
also its surface, equally.
For, the two parts into which a sphere is divided bj|
any of its great circles, on being applied the one to the
other, will exactly coincide, otherwise all the points in
their convex surfaces would not be equally distant from
the center.
Cor. 4. The radius of the sphere which is perpendicular
to the plane of a small circle, passes through the cente* of th*
tircU.
Cor. 5. A plane passing through the extremity of a radiut
of a sphere, and perpendicular to it, is tangent to the sphere.
For, if the plane intersect the sphere, the section is a
circle, and all the lines drawn from the center of the
sphere to points in the circumference are radii of the
sphere, and are therefore equal to the radius which is per-
pendicular to the plane, which is impossible, (Cor. 1, Th.
8, B. VI). Hence the plane does not intersect the sphere,
and has no point in its surface except the extremity of
the perpendicular radius. The plane is therefore tangent
to the sphere by Def 22.
THEOREM XXIV.
If the line drawn through the center and vertices of two
opposite angles of a regular polygon of an even number of
sides, be taken as an axis of revolution, the perimeter of either
semi-polygon thus formed will generate a surface whose measure
is the axis multiplied by the circumference of the inscribed circle.
Let ABCDFF be a semi-polygon cut
off from a regular polygon of an even
number of sides by drawing the line AF
through the center O, and the vertices A
and F, of two opposite angles of the poly-
gon; then will the surface generated by
the perimeter of this semi-polygon re-
volving about AF as an axis, be meas-
ured by AF x circumference of the in-
scribed circle.
From m, the middle point, and the extremities B and
0 of the side i?C,draw mn, BK, and CL, perpendicular to
AF; join also m and O, and draw BH perpendicular to
CL. The surface of the frustum of the cone generated
by the trapezoid BKLC, has for its measure circ. mn X
BC, (Cor. 3, Th. 20). Since mO is perpendicular to BC,
and mn to BH, the two A's, BCB. and mnO, are similar,
and their homologous sides give the proportion

mn : mO :: BH (= KL) : BC
and as circumferences are to each other as their radii, we
have
ciro. mn : circ. mO :: KL : BC
Hence, circ. mn x BO = circ. mO x KL.
But mO is the radius of the circle inscribed in tna
polygon. Hence, the surface generated by BC during the
revolution of the semi-polygon, is measured by the cir-
cumference of the inscribed circle multiplied by KL, the
part of the axis included between the two perpendicu-
lars let fall upon it from the extremities B and C. The
surface generated by any other side of the semi-polygon
will be measured, in like manner, by the circumference of
the inscribed circle multiplied by the corresponding part
of the axis.
By adding the measures of the surfaces generated by
the several sides of the semi-polygon, we get
Circ. mO x (AK + KL + LN+ NM+ MF)
for the measure of the whole surface.
Hence the theorem; if the line drawn through the cen
ler, etc.
Cor. It is evident that the surface generated by any
portion, as CD and DE, of the perimeter, is measured by
circ. mO x LM.
THEOREM XXV.
The surface of a sphere is measured by tht circumference
of one of its great circles multiplied by its diameter.
Let a sphere be generated by the revolution of the
uemi-circle, AHF, about its diameter, AF; then will the
surface of the sphere be measured by
Circ. AOx AF.
Inscribe in the semi-circle any regular semi-polygou,
and let it be revolved, with the semi-circle, about the axia

AF; the surface generated by its perim-
eter will be measured by
Circ. mOx AF, (Th. 24),
and this measure will hold true, how-
ever great the number of sides of the in- H|
scribed semi-polygon. But as the num-
ber of these sides is increased, the
radius mO, of the inscribed semi-circle,
increases and approaches equality with
the radius, AO; and when we reach the limit, by
making the number of sides indefinitely great, the radii
and semi-circles become equal, and the surface generated
by the perimeter of the inscribed semi-polygon becomes
the surface of the sphere. Therefore, the surface of the
sphere has, for its measure,
Circ. AOx AF.
Hence the theorem; the surface of a sphere is meas-
ured, etc.
Cor. 1. A zone of a sphere is measured by the circumfer-
ence of a great circle of the sphere multiplied by the altitude
of the zone.
For, the surface generated by any portion, as CD and
BE, of the perimeter of the inscribed semi-polygon has.
for its measure, circ. mO X LM, (Cor. Th. 24); and as
the number of the sides of the semi-polygon increases,
LM remains the same, the radius mO alone changing,
and becoming, when we reach the limit, equal to A 0;
bence, the surface of the zone is expressed by
Circ. AO X LM,
v. hether the zone have two bases, or but one.
Cor. 2. Let H and H' denote the altitudes of two
zones of spheres, whose radii are R and R'; then these
zones will be expressed by 2«R x H and 2*R' x II';
and if thfc surfaces of the zones be denoted by Z and Z\
we have
Z : Z': 2*R x H : 1«R' x H' :: R x ff : ii' x H'.
Hence, 1. Zones in different spheres are to each other as
their altitudes multiplied by the radii of the spheres.
2. Zones of equal altitudes are to each other as the radii
of the spheres.
3. Zones in the same, or equal spheres, are to each other as
their altitudes.
Cor. 3. Let R denote the radius of a sphere; then will
its diameter be expressed by 2R, and the circumference
of a great circle by 2rR; hence its surface will be ex
pressed by
2«R x 2R = 1<R*.
That is, the surface of a sphere is equivalent to the area of
four of its great circles.
Cor. 4. The surfaces of spheres are to each other as th*
squares of their radii.
THEOREM XXVI.
If a triangle be revolved about either of its sides as an axis,
the volume generated will be measured by one third of the prod-
uct of the axis and the area of a circle, having for its radius
the perpendicular let fall from the vertex of the opposite
angle on the axis, or on the axis produced.
First. Let the triangle ABC,
in which the perpendicular from
C falls on the opposite side, AB,
be revolved about AB as an axis;
then will *Vol. A ABC have, for
its measure, \AB x *GD.
The two A's into which A ABC is divided by the
perpendicular DC, are right-angled, and during the rev-
olution they will generate two cones, having for their
* Vol. A ABC, cone A ADC, are abbreviations for volume gener-
\ted by A ABC, cone generated by A ADC; and surfaces of revolu-
ticn generated by lines will hereafter be denoted by like abbreviations.

common base the circle, of which DC is the radius, and
foi* their axes the parts DA and DB, into which AB is
divided.

Now, *Cone A ADC is measured by \AD X *DC >
(Th. 21), and cone A BDC, by \BD x iDC'; but these
two cones compose Vol. A ABC; and by adding their
measures, we have, for that of Vol. A ABC,
\AD x *DC* + IBD x *~DC2 = \AB x *~DC\
Second. Let the trian- 9
gle EFG-, in which the
perpendicular from 6r
falls on the opposite side
EF produced, be revolved
about EF as an axis;
then will Vol. A EFG-
have, for its measure, \EF x *GBT', GS being the per-
pendicular on EF produced. For, in this case it is appa-
rent, that Vol. A EFG is the difference between tho
cone A EHGr and the cone A FHG. The first cone has,
for its measure, %EH x irGH2, and the second, for it?
measure, \FH x trGrJI2; hence, by subtraction, we have
Vol. A EFG = iEH X nGlf — \FHx xG~TP = \EF X *GR*.
Hence the theorem; if a triangle be revolved about either
of its sides, etc.
Scholium.—If we take either of the above expressions for the meas-
ure of the volume generated by the revolution of a triangle about ono
of its sides, for example the last, and factor it otherwise, we have
ort y G El
IEF X nQH* = EFx IGRXUX1GH= EFx IGHx —3—
Now. EF X \GS expresses the area of the triangle EFG; and
*l*t x CM
— , one third of the circumference described by the point G
o
during the revolution.
The expression, \AB X nDC*, maybe factored and interpreted in the
* See note on the preceding page.
19
G E 0 M £ T R V.
lame manner. Ilence, vre conclude that the voltimt generated />y tht
revolution of a triangle about either of its sides, is measured by the area
of the triangle multiplied by one third of the circumference described in
the revolution by the vertex of the angle opposite the axis.

THEOREM XXVII.
The volume generated by the revolution of a triangle about
*ny line lying in its plane, and passing through the vertex of
one of its anghs, is measured by the area of the triangle mul-
tiplied by two thirds of the circumference described, in the
revolution, by the middle point of the side opposite the vertex
through which the axis passes.
Let the triangle ABC he
revolved about the line
AG, drawn through the
vertex A, and lying in the
plane of the triangle, and
let HE be the perpendicu-
lar let fall from H, the
middle point of BC, upon
the axis AG; then will Vol. a ABC have, for its meas
ure, A ABC x £ circ. HE.
From the extremities of BC, let fall the perpendicu
lars BF and CD, on the axis; and from A draw JJTper
pendieular to BC, or BC produced, and produce CB,
until it meets the axis in G.
Now, it is evident that Vol. A ABC is the difference
between Vol. A AGC and Vol. A AGB. But Vol.
A AGC is expressed by a AGC x £ circ. CD; and Vol,
A AGB, by A AGB X £ circ. BF, (Scholium, Th. 26).
Hence,
Vol. A ABC = A AGO X } circ. CD — A AGB X J circ. BF.
Substituting for areas of A's, and for circumferences,
their measures, we have
Vol A ABO = GO X iAK X ^^R — GB x IAK X "^R?
o o
= GO X J^Z X ?1^£ — (GO— BC) X JJLK- X ^^
3
r=GCx IAK x^(OD — BF) + BC X }4£ X —„—.
But BNbeing drawn parallel to AG, we have
CiV= CD — BF;
hence, substituting this value for CD — BF, in the first
term of the second member of the last equation, we have
Vo\.AABC=GOxiAKx2^^+BOx^AKx ^F
o o
= GCx CN x \AK x2£ + BC x \AK x^^-, •
by changing the order of factors in the first term of the
second member. The homologous sides of the similar
triangles, GCD and BCN, give the proportion
GC : CD :: BC : CN
whence, GCxCN=CDx BC
Substituting this value for GC X CN, in the last equa-
tion above, and arranging the factors as before, it becomes
Vol. A ABC= BC x iAKx ^5 + BOx \AKx 2*'BF
8
BC x IAK x 2* (<3>+ *J3.
o
But CD + BF= 2HE; hence
Vol, A AB 0=--BOx lAKx^^=BCx %AKx %.2«.HE',
6
and since
BC x %AK= A ABO, and % x 2«.HE = § circfftf,
this measure conforms to the enunciation.
It only remains for us to consider the case in whic.1
the axis is parallel to the base BC of the triangle The
GEOMETRY.
F C B
A D F
precedi :g demonstration will not now apply, because it
supposes BC, or BC produced, to intersect the axis.
Let the axis AE, be parallel to the
base BC, of the a ABC. From B
and C let fall on the axis the perpen-
diculars BE and CD.
Now it is plain that
Vol. a.ABC=- cylinder rectangle BCDE +
cone a ADC— cone A AEB.
Substituting in second member, for cylinder and cones,
their measures, we have
Vol. A^BC= DE x *W + \AD x *VD'—\AE x *BE'
=*%DEx. *CD'+lDEx tW+^ADx *CD*—iAEx *BE\
But BE = CD, and \DE + \AD = \AE. Reducing by
these relations, we have
Vol. a ABC= IDE x *CD*= \DE x \CD x 4*.CZ>
= DE x \CDx %.1*.CD = BCx \CD x f.2*.CD.
And, since BC y. \CD expresses the area of the tri-
angle ABC, and \.1*.CD, two thirds of the circumfer-
ence described by any point of the base, this expression
also conforms to the enunciation.
Hence the theorem; the volume generated by the revela-
tion, etc.
Cor. If the generating
triangle becomes isosceles,
the perpendicular from A
meets the base at its middle
point. In this case, if we
resume the expression
o
it becomes

BC x
\AK x KM x i<
But, since AK is perpendicular to BC, and KE to BN
the a's AKE and CBN are similar, and their homolo-
gous sides give the proportion
BC : BN:: ^KT: iO?
whence, BCx KE = .SiVx AK
Changing the order of factors in the last expression oh
the preceding page, and replacing BCxKE by its value,
it, becomes
\AKx AKxBNx *t = AK* x BNx |*
Hence,
Vol. A ABC= §* x AK* x BN. = f* x AK* x DF
That is, the volume generated by the revolution of an isos -
celes triangle about any line drawn through its vertex and lying
in the plane of the triangle, is measured by §7r times the square
of the perpendicular of the triangle multiplied by the part of the
axis included between the two perpendiculars let fall upon it
from the extremities of the base of the triangle.
Scholium.—If we resume the equation
Vol. A ABC = BC X iAK X ^^
o
and change the order of the factors in the second member, it may be
put under the form
Vol. A ABC = BC X 2*.HE X \AK.
But during the revolution of the triangle, the side BC generates tha
surface of the frustum of a cone, which surface has for its measure
BC X 2tt.EE (Th. 20, Cor. 3).
Hence, the above equation may be thus interpreted: The volunt*
generated by the revolution of a triangle about any line lying in its plant
and passing through the vertex of one of its angles, is measured by the
surface generated, during the revolution, by the side opposite the vertea
through which the axis passes multiplied by one third of *he perpen-
dicular drawn from the vertex to that side.
19*
GEOMETR*.
THEOREM XXVIII.
If the line drawn through the center and vertices of two op-
posite angles of a regular polygon, of an even number of
sides, be taken as an axis of revolution, either semi-polygcn
thus formed will, during this revolution, generate a volume
which has, for its measure, the surface generated by the
perimeter of the semi-polygon multiplied by one third oj it*
apothem.
Let ABCDE be a regular semi-poly-
gon, cut off from a regular polygon
of an even number of sides, by draw-
ing a line througb the center, O, and
the vertices, A and E, of two opposite
angles of the polygon; „Len will the
volume generated by the revolution
of this semi-polygon about AE, as an
axis, be measured by (Sur. AE + sur.
BC+ sur. CD + sur. DE) x §£>m, Om
being the apothem of the polygon.
For, if from the center of O, the lines OB, OC, OD, be
drawn to the vertices of the several angles of the semi-
polygon, it will be divided into equal isosceles triangles,
the perpendicular of each being the apothem of the
polygon.
Now, the volume generated by A AOB has, for ita
measure,
Sur. AB x iOm,
that by A BOC, Sur. BC x J0m,
"A COD, Sur. CD x iOm,
"A DOE, Sur. DE x \Om, (Scholium, Th. 27).
Bj the addition of the measures of these partial vol-
umes, we find, for that of the whole volume,
Vol. semi-polygon ABCDE = sur. perimeter ABODE X IOm,
and were the number of the sides of the semi-polygon

increased or diminished, the reasoning would be in no
wise changed.
Hence the theorem; if the line drawn through the cen-
ter, etc.
Scholium.—The volume generated by any portion of the semi-poly-
gon, as that composed of the two isosceles &'a BOO, COD, is meas-
ured by
Sur. perimeter BCD X JOm.
THEOREM XXIX.
The volume of a sphere is measured by its surface multir
plied by one third of its radius.
Let a sphere be generated by the
revolution of the semicircle ACE,
about its diameter, AE, as an axis;
then will the volume of the sphere be
measured by
sur. semi-circ. OA x £OA.
For, inscribe in the semi-circle any
regular semi - polygon, as ABCDE,
and let it, together with the semi-cir-
cle, revolve about the axis AE. The
semi-polygon will generate a volume which has, for its
measure,
Sur. perimeter ABCDE x \Om, (Th. 28),
in which Om. is the apothem of the polygon.
Now, however great the number of sides of the in-
scribed regular semi-polygon, this measure forthevoluni«j
generated by it, will hold true; but when we reach the
limit, by making the number of sides indefinitely great,
the perimeter and apothem become, respectively, the
semi-circumference and its radius, and the volume gen
erated by the semi-polygon becomes that generated by
the semi-circle, that is, the sphere. Therefore,
Vol. sphere = sur. semi-circ. OA X \OA.

GEOMETRY.
Scholium 1.—If we take any portion of the inscribed semi-polygon,
as BOC, the volume generated by it is measured by sur. BO X iOm,
(Scholium, Th. 27); and when we pass to the limit, this volume be-
tomes a sector, and sur. BC a zone of the sphere, which zone is the
baBe of the sector. Hence, the volume of a spherical sector is measured
by the zone which forms its base multiplied by one third of the radius
vf the sphere.
Scholium 2. — Let ]i denote the radius cf a sphere; then will Hi
diameter be represented by 2R. Njw, since the surface of * sphere it
equivalent to the area of four of its great circles, and the area of a
great circle is expressed by rtli2, we have
Vol. sphere = 4«R2 x $R = 5*R'-
And since R* = J (1R )s, we also have
Vol. sphere = faR' = in(2B)K
Hence, the volume of a sphere is measured by four thirds of ~ times iht
cube of the radius, or by one sixth of - times the cube of the diameter.
THEOREM XXX.
The surface of a sphere is equivalent to two thirds of the
surface, bases included, and the volume of a sphere to two
thirds of the volume, of the circumscribing cylinder.
Let AMD be a semi-circle, and
ABCD a rectangle formed by BF
drawing tangents through the
middle point and extremities of
the semi-circumference, and let m;
the semi-circle and rectangle be
revolved together about AD as
an axis. The rectangle will thus C(f
generate a cylinder circumscribed
about the sphere generated by the semi-circle.
First. The diameter of the base, and the altitude Df
the cylinder, are each equal to the diameter of the
sphere; hence the convex surface of the cylinder, being
measured by the circumference of its base multiplied by
its altitude, (Cor. 1, Th. 20), has the same measure as
the surface of the sphere, (Th. 25). But the surface of
the sphere is equivalent to four great circles, (Oor. 3,

Tli. 25). Hence, the convex surface of the cylinder is
equivalent to four great circles; and adding to these the
bases of the cylinder, also great circles, we have the
whole surface of the cylinder equivalent to six great
circles. Therefore, the surface of the sphere is four
sixths = two thirds of the surface of the cylinder, in-
cluding its bases.
Second. The volume of the cylinder, being measured
by the area of the base multiplied by the altitude, (Cor.
1, Th. 22), is, in this case, measured by the area of a
great circle multiplied by its diameter = four great cir-
sles multiplied by one half the radius of the sphere.
But the volume of the sphere is measured by four
great circles multiplied by one third of the radius, (Scho-
lium 2, Th. 29). Therefore,
Vol. sphere : Vol. cylinder :: J : J :: 2 : 3;
whence, Vol. sphere = § Vol. cylinder.
Hence the theorem; the surface of a sphere is equiva-
lent, etc.
Cor. The volume of a sphere is to the volume of the cir-
cumscribed cylinder, as the surface of the sphere is to the sur-
face of the cylinder.
Scholium.—Any polyedron circumscribing a sphere, may be regarded
as composed of as many pyramids as the polyedron has faces, the cen-
ter of the sphere being the common vertex of these pyramids, and the
several faces of the polyedron their bases. The altitude of each pyra-
mid will be a radius of the sphere; hence the volume of any one pyra-
mid will be measured by the area of the face of the polyedron which
forms its base, multiplied by one third of the radius of the sphere.
Therefore, the aggregate of these pyramids, or the whole polyedron,
will be measured by the surface of the polyedron multiplied by one
third of the radius of the sphere.
But the volume of the sphere is also measured by the surface of the
sphere multiplied by one third of its radius. Hence,
Sur. polyedron ; Sur. sphere :: Vol. polyedron : Vol. sphere.
That is, the surface of any circumscribed polyedron is to the surface
of the sphere, at the volume of the polyedron is to the volume of tht
sphere.

TJEOREM XXXI.
The volume generated by the revolution of the segment cf a
circle about a diameter of the circle exterior to the segment, it
measured by one sixth of * times the square of the chord of
the segment, multiplied by the part of the axis included be-
tween the perpendiculars let fall upon it from the extremities
of the chord.
Let BCD be a segment of the circle,
whose center is O, and AH a part of a
diameter exterior to the segment. Draw
the chord BB, and from its extremities
let fall the perpendiculars, BF, DE on
AH; also draw Om perpendicular to
BD. The spherical sector generated
by the revolution of the circular sector
BCDO about AS, is measured by zone BD x \B0,
(Scholium 1, Th. 29), = 2*.BO X JSF X \BO = frlO* x
EF; and the volume generated by the isosceles triangle
BOD is measured by
f^W X EF, (Cor. 1, Th. 27).
The difference between these two volumes is that gen-
erated by the circular segment BCD, which has, there-
fore, for its measure,
l*EF(BO* — O^P) = l*EF x B~m, (Th. 39, B. I).
But since Bm = \BD, Bm* = \BD*; hence, by sub-
stituting, we have
Vol. segment BCD = %*EF x \BD' = faBD' x EF.
Hence the theorem.
THEOREM XXXII.
The volume cf a segment of a sphere has, for its measure,
the half sum of the bases of the segment multiplied by its alti-
tude, plus the volume of a sphere which has this altitude for
its diameter.

Lei BCB be the arc of a circle, and
BF and DE perpendiculars let fall
from its extremities upon a diameter, c^
of wLich AH is a part; then, if the
area BCDEF be revolved about AH n!
a? an axis, a spherical segment will
be generated, for the volume of which
it is proposed to find a measure.
The circular segment will generate a volume meas-
ured by \«BD* x EF, (Th. 31); and the frustum of the
cone generated by the trapezoid BDEF will have, for
its measure,
}rTBF' xEF+ \«DW xEF + \«BF xDEx EF, (Th. 22),
= i«EF(BF' + ~DE* + BF x DE).
.Rut the sum of these two volumes is the volume of
the spherical segment, which has, therefore, for ita
measure,
\«EF {BD* + 2BF* + 2DE* + 2BF X DE)
From B let fall the perpondicular Bn on DE; then will
Dn = DE—nE=DE — BF;
hence, Dn^ = DE* — 2BE x BF + BF*;
and since BB = Bn + Dn = EF' + Dn ,
we have BD' = EF' + DE' + BF'— 2DE x BF.
By substituting this value for BD*, in the above meas-
ure for the volume of the segment, we find
iHEFpW' + BE' + RF*—ID ExBF+ZBT+WE* + 2BFx.DE)
rr \HEF(EF2 + 3M!+ I'M*) = UEF' + EF (^DE +——).
Which last expression conforms to the enunciation.
Hence the theorem; the volume of a segment of a sphett,
etc.
Cor. "When the segment has but one base, BF becomes
eero, and EF becomes EA; and the final expression
which we found for the volume of the segment reduoei
to
2
Hence, A spherical segment having but one base, is equiva-
lent to a sphere whose diameter is the altitude of the segment,
plus om half of a cylinder having for base and altitude ths
base and altitude of the segment.
ScnoLiuu.—"When tho spherical segment has a single base, we may
put the expression, \itEA -f- EA X .——, under a form to indicate a
convenient practical rule for computing the volume of the segment.
Thus, since the triangle DEO is right-angled, and OE= OA — EA,
ire have
» • on i w r> i ~rn*
DE = DO — OE' = OA — OX + 10A X EA — EA
= 20A X EA—~EA'.
By substituting this value for DE' in the expression for the volume
of the segment, vre find
h*ET + EA X % X {20 A X EA — EA*)
= \hEA + EA* X | (20.4 — EA)
^=iHEA3+bt.3EA2 (20A — EA)
= IhEA\EA + 6.0A — 3EA)
= i*EA2(G-OA — 2EA)
= i*El\30A — EA)
Hence, the volume of a spherical segment, having a single bate, ti
measured by one third of tt times the square of the altitude of the seg-
ment, multiplied by the difference between three times the radius of tht
where and this altitude.
RECAPITULATION
Of some of the principles demonstrated in this and the pie-
ceding Books.
Let R denote the radius, and D the diameter of any
circle or sphere, and H the altitude of a coDe, or of a
segment of a sphere; then,
or,
Circumference of a circle = 2*.B.
Surface of a sphere = ixR*, or 7tZ?\
Zone forming the base of a 1 _ „ „ _
segment of a sphere, J
Volume or solidity of a sphere = {*R*, or ^tZ>*,
Volume of a spherical sector = f«i22 x H.
Volume of a cone, of which -v
H, is the radius of the V = J*i? x H.
base )
Volume of a spherical seg-'
ment, of which R' is the
radius of one base, and
R" the radius of the
other, and whose altitude
is IT,
If the segment has but one-v _ , _, TT*Rfl
base, R" = zero, and the I ~ ** + ~2~'
volume of the segment, J = \,tJI2(3R — B).
PRACTICAL PROBLEMS.
1. The diameter of a sphere is 12 inches; how many
cubic inches does it contain? Ans. 904.78 cu. in.
2. What is the solidity of the segment of a single base
that is cut from a sphere 12 inches in diameter, the altitude
of the segment being 3 inches? Ans. 141.372 cu. in.
3. The surface of a sphere is 68 square feet; what is
its diameter? Ans. D = 4.652 feet.
4. If from a sphere, whose surface is 68 square feet, a
segment be cut, having a depth of two feet and a single
base, what is the convex surface of the segment?
Ans. 29.229+ sq. ft.
5. What is the solidity of the sphere mentioned in the
two preceding examples, and what is the solidity of the
segment, having a depth of two feet;, and but one baseT
. J So'idity of sphere, 52.71 cu.-ft.'
\ " "segment 20 8$"
20
6. Jn a sphere whose diameter is 20 feet, what is the
solidity of a segment, the bases of which are on the same
side of the center, the first at the distance of 3 feet from
it, and the second of 5 feet; and what is the solidity of
a second segment of the same sphere, whose bases are
also on the same side of the center, and at distances
from it, the first of 5 and the second of 7 feet?
a ( Solidity of first segment, 525.7 en. ft
**'l " "second" 400.03"
7. If the diameter of the single base of a spherical
segment be 16 inches, and the altitude of the segment 4
inches, what is its solidity ? *
Ana. 435.6352 cubic inches.
8. The diameter of one base of a spherical segment is
18 inches, and that of the other base 14 inches, these
bases being on opposite sides of the center of the sphere,
and the distance between them 9 inches; what is the
volume of the segment, and the radius of the sphere?
. ( Vol. seg., 2219.5 cubic inches.
\ Bad. of sphere, 9.4027 inches.
9. The radius of a sphere is 20, the distance from the
center to the greater base of a segment is 10, and the
distance from the same point to the lesser base is 16;
what is the volume of the segment, the bases being on
the same side of the center? Ana. 4297.7088.
10. If the diameter of one base of a spherical segment
be 20 miles, and the diameter of the other base 12 miles,
and the altitude of the segment 2 miles, what is its
solidity, and what is the diameter of the sphere?
* First find the radios of the sphere.
Note.—The Key to this work contains full solutions to all the problems in
the Geometry and Trigonomstry, and the necessary diagrams for illustration.
BOOK VIII.
PRACTICAL GEOMETRY.
APPLICATION OF ALGEBRA TO GEOMETRY, AND ALSO
PROPOSITIONS FOR ORIGINAL INVESTIGATION.
No definite rules can be given for the algebraic solu-
tion of geometrical problems. The student must, in a
a great measure, depend on his own natural tact, and
his power of making a skillful application of the geomet-
rical and analytical knowledge he has thus far obtained.
The known quantities of the problem should be repre-
sented by the first letters of the alphabet, and the un-
known by the final letters; and the relations between
these quantities must be expressed by as many inde-
pendent equations as there are unknown quantities. To
obtain the equations of the problem, we draw a figure,
the parts of which represent the known and unknown
magnitudes, and very frequently it will be found neces-
sary to draw auxiliary lines, by means of which we cau
deduce, from the conditions enunciated, others that can
be more conveniently expressed by equations. In many
cases the principal difficulty consists in finding, from the
relations directly given in the statement, those which
are ultimately expressed by the equations of the problem.
Raving found these equations, they are treated by the
known rules of algebra, and the values of the required
magnitudes determined in terms of those given.
GEOMETRT.
PROBLEM I.
Given, the hypotenuse, and the sum of the other two lidet
»f a right-angled triangle, to determine the triangle.
Let ABC be the A. Put CB = y, AB
=. x,AC = h, and CB + AB = s. Then,
by a given condition, we have
x + y = s;
and, x»+ y2= h\ (Th. 39, B. I). >
"Reducing these two equations, and we have
z = $8±$^2h' —?; y = \s±\^2ht — tt.
If h = 5 and * = 7, a; = 4 or 3, and y = 3 or 4.
Remark. — In place of putting x to represent one side, and y the
other, we might put (z + y) to represent the greater side, and (x — jr)
the less side; then,
ft
x* + y* = o > and 2x = », etc.

PROBLEM II.
Given, the base and perpendicular of a triangle, to find th*
tide of its inscribed square.
Let ABC be the A. Put
AB = b, the base, CD = p,
the perpendicular.
Draw EF parallel to AB,
and suppose it equal to EG,
a side of the required square; and put EF = x.
Thou, by similar A's, we have
CI: EF :: CD : AB.
That is, p — x : x :: p : b.

Hence,
bp — bx = px: or, x = . . .
b+p
That is, the tide of the inscribed square is equal to tht
product of the base and altitude, divided by their sum.
233

PROBLEM III.
In a triangle, having given the sides about the vertical
angle, and the line bisecting that angle and terminating in
the base, to find the base.
Ijtst ABC be the a, and let a cir-
cle be circumscribed about it. Di-
vide the arc AEB into two equal
partu at the point E, and draw EC.
This line bisects the vertical angle,
(Cor., Th. 9, B. III). Draw BE.
Put AD = x, DB = y, AC = a,
OB = b, CD = c, and DE = w. The two A's, ABO and
EBC, are equiangular; from which we have
w + c : b :: a : e; or, cw + C = ab; (1)
But, as EC and AB are two chords that intersect each,
other in a circle, we have
cw = xy, (Th.' 17, B. LIT).
Therefore, xy + e' = ab. (2)
But, as CB bisects the vertical angle, vi o have
a : b :: x : y, (Th. 24, B. LT).
Or, x = % (3)
o
Hence, $/* + c' = ab; or, y = \f V
And, x=l\/b' — — .
a
Now, as x and y are determined, the base is deter
mined.
Remark. — Opserve that equation (2) is Theorem 20, Book III
20*

PROBLEM IV.
To determine a triangle, from the base, the line bisecting
the vertical angle, and the diameter of the circumscribing nrcle.
Describe the circle on the given
diameter, AB, and divide it into two
parts, in the point D, so that AD x
DB shall be equal to the square of
oue half the given base, (Th. 17, B.III).
Through D draw EDG, at right
angles to AB, and EG will be the given base of the
triangle.
Put AD = «, DB = m, AB = d, DGr = b.
Then, n + m = d, and nm = b';
and these two equations will determine n and m; there-
fore, we shall consider n and m as known.
Now, suppose EHG to be the required A; and draw
HIB and HA. The two A's, ABH, DBI, are equian-
gular; and, therefore, we have
AB : HB :: IB : BB.
But SI is a given line, that we will represent by c,
and if we put IB = w, we shall have HB = c + to; then
the above proportion becomes,
d : c + w :: w : m.
Now, w can be determined by a quadratic equation;
Mid, therefore, IB is a known line.
In the right-angled A DBI, the hypotenuse IB, and
the base DB, are known; therefore, DI is known, (Th.
39, B. I); and if DI is known, .tfJand IG are known.
Lastly, let EH= x, HGr = y, and put EI=p, and 10
Then, by Theorem 20, Book m, pq + c' = xy (1)
But, x: t, ::p : 9(Th.24,B.Il)
23*
Or,
z=M
(2)
Now, from equations (1) and (2) we can determine x
andjr, the sides of the A; and thus the determination ha?
been attained, carefully and easily, step by step.
PROBLEM V.
Tliree equal circles touch each other externally, and thut
inclose one acre of ground; what is the diameter in rods of
each of these circles?
Draw three equal circles to touch each other exter-
nally, and join the three centers, thus forming a triangle.
The lines joining the centers will pass
through the points of contact, (Th. 7,
B.m).
Let R represent the radius of these
equal circles; then it is obvious that
each side of this A is equal to 2R.
The triangle is therefore equilateral,
and it incloses the given area, and three equal sectors.
As the angle of each sector is one third of two right
angles, the three sectors are, together, equal to a semi-
circle; but the area of a semi-circle, whose radius is It, is
expressed by -—-; and the area of the whole triangle
A
must be — +160; but the area of the A is also equal .to
R multiplied by the perpendicular altitude, which if
RV3.

Therefore,
Or,
ijV5 = ^!-f 160.
iJ»(2%/3 — *) = 320.
320
= 992.248.
2>/3 —3.1415926 0.3225
Hence, R = 31.48 + rods, for the required result.
Problem VI.—In a right-angled triangle, having given
the base and the sum of the perpendicular and hypotenuse,
to find these two sides.
Prob. VII.— Given, the base and altitude of a triangle, to
divide it into three equal parts, by lines parallel to the base.
Prob. VIII.—In any equilateral £, given the length of
the three perpendiculars drawn from any point within, tc tha
three sides, to determine the sides.
Prob. IX.—In a right-angled triangle, having given the
base, (3), and the difference between the hypotenuse and per-
pendicular, (1), to find both these two sides.
Prob. X. — In a right-angled triangle, having given the
hypotenuse, (5), and the difference between the base and
perpendicular, (1), to determine both these two sides.
Prob. 1£1.—Having given the area of a rectangle inscribed
in a given triangle, to determine the sides of the rectangle.
Prob. XLI.—In a triangle, having given the ratio of the
two sides, together with both the segments of the base, made
by a perpendicular from the vertical angle, to determine the
tides of the triangle.
Prob. XLH.—In a triangle, having given the base, the
sum of the other two sides, and the length of a line drawn
from the vertical angle to the middle of the base, to find the
sides of the triangle.
Prob. XTV.—To determine a right-angled triangle, having
given the lengths of two lines drawn from the acute angles to
*he middle of the opposite sides.
Prob. XV.— To determine a right-angled triangle, having
given the perimeter, and the radius of the inscribed circle.
Prob. XVI.— To determine a triangle, having given the
base, the perpendicular, and the ratio of the two sides.
Prob. XVH.—To determine a right-angled triangle, having
given the hypotenuse, and the side of the inscribed square.
Prob. XV ill. — To determine the radii of three equal cir-
cles inscribed in a given circle, and tangent to each other, and
also to the circumference of the given circle.
Prob. XIX.—In a right-angled triangle, having given the
perimeter, or sum of all the sides, and the 'perpendicular let
fall from the right angle on the hypotenuse, to determine the
triangle; that is, its sides.
Prob. XX.—To determine a right-angled triangle, having
given the hypotenuse, and the difference of two lines drawn
from the two acute angles to the center of the inscribed circle.
Prob. XXI. — To determine a triangle, having given the
base, the perpendicular, and the difference of the two other
sides.
Prob. XXII. — To determine a triangle, having given the
base, the perpendicular, and the rectangle, or product of the
two sides.
Prob. XXTTT.—To determine a triangle, having given the
lengths of three lines drawn from the three angles to the mid-
dle of the opposite sides.
Prob. XXIV. — In a triangle, having given all the three
sides, to find the radius of the inscribed circle.
Prob. XXV.—To determine a right-angled triangle, having
given the side of the inscribed square, and the radius of the
inscribed circle.
Prob. XXVI. — To determine a triangle, and the radius
of the inscribed circle, having given the lengths of three lines
it awn from the three angles to the center of that circle.
Prob XXVTI. — To determine a right-angled triangle,
having given the hypotenuse, and the radius of the inscribed
tirole.
Prob. XXVJLII.—The lengths of two parallel chords on the
tame side of the center being given, and their distance apart,
to determine the raJius of the circle.
Prob. XXTX. — The lengths of two chords in the tamt
circle being given, and also the differense of their distance*
from the center, to find the radius of the circle.
Prob.XXX.—The radius of a circle being given, and also
the rectangle of the segments of a chord, to determine the dis-
tance, of the point at which the chord is divided, from tht
center.
Prob. XXXI.—If each of the two equal sides of an isos-
celes triangle be represented by a, and the base by 2b, what
will be the value of the radius of the inscribed circle?
. „ b^a' — b*
Ans. R = —.
a + b
Prob. XX XI I. — From a point without a circle whose
diameter is d, a line equal to d is drawn, terminating in the
concave arc, and this line is bisected at the first point in which
it meets the circumference. What is the distance of the point
without from the center of the circle?
It is not deemed necessary to multiply problems in the
application of algebra to geometry. The preceding will
be a sufficient exercise to give the student a clear con-
ception of the nature of such problems, and will serve as
a guide for the solution of others that may be proposed
to him, or that may be invented by his own ingenuity.
MISCELLANEOUS PROPOSITIONS.
We shall conclude this book, and the subject of Geom-
etry, by offering the following propositions, — some the-
orems, others problems, and some a combination ot both,
—not only for the purpose of impressing, by application,
the geometrical principles which have now been estab-
lished, but for the not less important purpose of culti-
vating the power of independent investigation.
After one or two propositions in which the beginnei
will be assisted in the analysis and construction, we shall
loave him to his own resources, with the caution that a
239

-D
patient consideration of all the conditions in each case,
and not mere trial operation, is the only process by which
he can hope to reach the desired result.
1. From two given points, to draw two equal straight
lines, which shall meet in the same point in a given
straight line.
Let A and B be the given points,
»nd CD the given straight line. Pro-
dace the perpendicular to the straight
line AB at its middle point, until it
meets CD in G. It is then easily
proved that G is the point in CD in
which the equal lines from A and
B must meet. That is, that AG
= BG.
If the points A and B were on
opposite sides of CD, the directions
for the construction would be the
same, and we should have this fig-
ure; but the reasoning by which
we prove AG = BG would be un-
changed.
2. From two given points on the same side of a given
straight line, to draw two straight lines which shall meet
in the given line, and make equal angles with it.
Let CD be the given line, and
A and B the given points.
From B draw BE perpendicular
to CD, and produce the perpen-
licular to F, making EF equal to
BE; then draw AF, and from the
point G, in which it intersects
CD, draw GB. Now, [_B GE=*
\_EGF =\_AGC. Hence, the
angles BGD and -iff Care equal,
and the lines AG and BG meet
in a common point in the line CD, and made equal angles wit*
that line.


8. If, from a point without a circle, two straight linet
be drawn to the concave part of the circumference, making
equal angles with the line joining the same point and the
center, the parts of these lines which are intercepted within
the circle, are equal.
4. If a circle be described on the radius of another circle,
any straight line drawn from the point where they meet,
to the outer circumference, is bisected by the interior one.
5. From two given points on the same side of a line
given in position, to draw two straight lines which shall
contain a given angle, and be terminated in that line.
6. If, from any point without a circle, lines be drawn
touching the circle, the angle contained by the tangents is
double the angle contained by the line joining the points
of contact and the diameter drawn through one of them.
7. If, from any two points in the circumference of a
circle, there be drawn two straight lines to a point in a
tangent to that circle, they will make the greatest angle
when drawn to the point of contact.
8. From a given point within a giv<m circle, to draw a
straight line which shall make, with the circumference,
an angle, less than any angle made by any other line
drawn from that point.
9. If two circles cut each other, the greatest line that
can be drawn through either point of intersection, is that
which is parallel to the line joining their centers.
10. If, from any point within an equilateral triangle,
perpendiculars be drawn to the sides, their sum is equal
to a perpendicular drawn from any of the angles to the
opposite side.
11. If the points of bisection of the sides of a given tri-
angle be joined, the triangle so formed will be one fourth
of the given triangle.
12. The difference of the angles at the base of any tri-
angle, is double the angle contained by a line drawn from
the vertex perpendicular to the base, and another bisect-
ng the angle at the vertex.
13. If, from the three angles of a triangle, lines be
irawn to the points of bisection of the opposite sides,
'bese lines intersect each other in the same point.
14. The three straight lines which bisect the three
angles of a triangle, meet in the same point.
15. The two triangles, formed by drawing straight
lines from any point within a parallelogram to the ex-
tremities of two opposite sides, are, together, one half the
parallelogram.
16. The figure formed by joining the points of bisection
of the sides of a trapezium, is a parallelogram.
17. If squares be described on three sides of a right-
angled triangle, and the extremities of the adjacent sides
be joined, the triangles so formed are equivalent to the
given triangle, and to each other.
18. If squares be described on the hypotenuse and sides
of a right-angled triangle, and the extremities of the sides
of the former, and the adjacent sides of the others, be
joined, the sum of the squares of the lines joining them
will be equal to five times the square of the hypotenuse.
19. The vertical angle of an oblique-angled triangle
inscribed in a circle, is greater or less than a right angle,
by the angle contained between the base and the diam-
eter drawn from the extremity of the base.
20. If the base of any triangle be bisected by the diam
eter of its circumscribing circle, and, from the extremity
of that diameter, a perpendicular be let fall upon the
longer side, it will divide that side into segments, one of
which will be equal to one half the sum, and the other to
one half the difference, of the sides.
21. A straight line drawn from the vertex of an equi
lateral triangle inscribed in a c'rclc, to any point in the
opposite circumference, is equal to the sum of the two lines
which are drawn from the extremities of the base to the
eame point.
22. The straight line bisecting any angle of a triangle
21 Q
inscribed in a given circle, cuts the circumference in a
point which is equi-distant from the extremities of the
side opposite to the bisected angle, and from the center
of a circle inscribed in the triangle.
23. If, from the center of a circle, a line be drawn to
any point in the chord of an arc, the square of that line,
together with the rectangle contained by the segments
of the chord, will be equal to the square described on the
radius.
24. If two points be taken in the diameter of a circle,
equidistant from the center, the sum of the squares of the
two lines drawn from these points to any point in the cir-
cumference, will be always the same.
25. If, on the diameter of a semicircle, two equal circles
be described, and in the space included by the three cir-
cumferences, a circle be inscribed, its diameter will be £
the diameter of either of the equal circles.
26. If a perpendicular be drawn from the vertical angle
of any triangle to the base, the difference of the squares
of the sides is equal to the difference of the squares of
the segments of the base.
27. The square described on the side of an equilateral
triangle, is equal to three times the square of the radius
of the circumscribing circle.
28. The sum of the sides of an isosceles triangle is less
than the sum of the sides of any other triangie on the same
base and between the same parallels.
29 In any triangle, given one angle, a side adjacent to
the given angle, and the difference of the other two sides,
to oonstruct the triangle.
30. In any triangle, given the base, the sum of tiw
other two sides, and the angle opposite the base, to con-
struct the triangle.
31. In any triangle, given the base, the angle opposite
lo the base, and the difference of the other two sides, to
instruct the triangle.
BOOK IX.
SPHERICAL GEOMETRY.
DEFINITIONS.
1. Spherical Geometry has for its object the investiga-
tion of the properties, and of the relations to each other,
of the portions of the surface of a sphere which are
bounded by the arcs of its great circles.
2. A Spherical Polygon is a portion of the surface of a
sphere bounded by three or more arcs of great circles, called
the sides of the polygon.
3. The Angles of a spherical polygon are the angles
formed by the bounding arcs, and are the same as the
angles formed by the planes of these arcs.
4. A Spherical Triangle is a spherical polygon having
but threo sides, each of which is less than a semi-circum-
ference.
5. A Lune is a portion of the surface of a sphere in-
cluded between tn o great semi-circumferences having a
common diameter.
6. A Spherical 'Wodgei or Ungula, is a portion of the
solid sphere included between two great semi-circles having
a common diameter
7. A Spherical Pyramid is a portion of a sphere bounded
by the faces of a solid angle having its vertex at the
center, and the spherical polygon which these faces inter-
cept on the surface. This spherical polygon is called the
base of the pyramid.
8. The Axis of a great circle of a sphere is that diameter
of the sphere which is perpendicular to the plane of the
circle. This diameter is also the axis of all small circles
parallel to the great circle.
9. A Pole of a circle of a sphere is a point on the sur-
face of the sphere equally distant from every point in the
circumference of the circle.
10. Supplemental, or Polar Triangles, are two triangles on
a sphere, so related that the vertices of the angles of
either triangle are the poles of the sides of the other.
PROPOSITION I.
Any two sides of a spherical triangle are together greater
than the third side.
Let AB, AC, and BC, be the three
sides of the triangle, and D the center
of the sphere.
The angles of the planes that form
the solid angle at D, are measured by
the arcs AB, AG, and .5(7. But any
two of these angles are together greater
than the third angle, (Th. 18, B. VI). Therefore, any two
sides of the triangle are, together, greater than 'he third side.
Hence the proposition.
PROPOSITION II.
The sum of the three sides of any spherical triangle is lew
than the circumference of a great circle.
Let ABC be a spherical triangle; the two sides, AB
and AC, produced, will meet at the point which is diame-
trically opposite to A, and the arcs, ABD and ACJ) are


together equal to a great circle. But,
by the last proposition, BC is less
than the two arcs, BD and DC. There-
fore, AB + BC + AC, is less than
ABD + AQD; that is, less than a
great circle.
Hence the proposition.
PROPOSITION III.
The extremities of the axis of a great circle of a sphere
are the poles of the great circle, and these points are also
the poles of all small circles parallel to the great circle.
Let O he the center of
the sphere, and BD the
axis of the great circle,
Cm Am"; then will B and
D, the extremities of th6
axis, be the poles of the
circle, and also the poles
of any parallel small cir-
cle, as FnE.
For, since BD is per-
pendicular to the plane
of the circle, Cm Am", it
is perpendicular to the lines OA, Om', Om", etc., passing
through its foot in the plane, (Def. 2, B. VI); hence, all
the arcs, Bm, Bm', etc., are quadrants, as are also the
arcs Dm, Dm', etc. The points B and D are, therefore,
each equally distant from all the points in the circumfer-
ence, Cm Am"; hence, (Def. 9), they are its poles.
Again, since the radius, OB, is perpendicular to the
plane of the circle, Cm Am", it is also perpendicular to
the plane of the pai-allel small circle, FnE, and passes
through its center, O'. Now, the chords of the arcs, BF,
Bn, BE, etc., being obique lines, meeting the plane of
the small circle a* equal distances from the foot of the

perpendicular, BO', are all equal, (Th. 4, B. VI); hence,
the arcs themselves are equal, and B is one pole of the
circle, FnE. In like manner we prove the arcs, DF, Dn,
DE, etc., equal, and therefore D is the other pole of the
same circle.
*Hence the proposition, etc.
Cor. 1. A point on the surface of a sphere at the distance
of a quadrant from two points in the arc of a great cirtle, not
at the extremities of a diameter, is a pole of that arc.
For, if the arcs, Bm, Bm', are each quadrants, the angles,
BOm and BOm', are each right angles; and hence, BO
is perpendicular to the plane of the lines, Om and Om!,
which is the plane of the arc, mm'; B is therefore the
pole of this arc.
Cor. 2. The angle included between the arc of a great circle
and the are of another great circle, connecting any of its points
with the pole, is a right angle.
For, since the radius, BO, is perpendicular to the plane
of the circle, Cm Am", every plane passed through this
radius is perpendicular to the plane of the circle; hence,
the plane of the arc Bm is perpendicular to that of the
arc Cm; and the angle of the arcs is that of their planes.
PROPOSITION IV.
The angle formed by two arcs of great circles which inter-
sect each other, is equal to the angle included between the tan-
gents to these arcs at their point of intersection, and is meas-
ured by that arc of a great circle whose pole is the vertex of
the angle, and which is limited by the sides of the angle or
the sides produced.
Let AM and AN be two arcs intersecting at the
point A, and let AE and AF be the tangents to these
arcs at this point. Take AC and AD, each quadrants,
and draw the arc CD, of which A is the pole, and OC
and OD are the radii.
247

Now, since the planes of the arcs intersect in the radios
OA, and AE is a tangent to one arc, and AF a tangent
to the other, at the common point A,
these tangents form with each other an
angle which is the measure of the angle
of the planes of the arcs; but the angle
of the planes of the arcs is taken as the
angle included by the arcs, "(Def. 3).
Again, because the arcs, AC and AD,
are each quadrants, the angles, A OC,
AOD, are right angles; hence the radii,
OC and OD, which lie, one in one face,
and the other in the other face, of the
diedral angle formed by the planes of the arcs, are
perpendicular to the common intersection of these faces
at the same point. The angle, COD, is therefore the
angle of the planes, and consequently the angle of the
arcs; but the angle COD is measured by the arc CD.
Hence the proposition.
Cor. 1. Since the angles included between the arcs of
great circles on a sphere, are measured by other arcs of
great circles of the same sphere, we may compare such
angles with each other, and construct angles equal to
other angles, by processes which do not differ in principle
from those by which plane angles are compared and con-
structed.
Cor. 2. Two arcs of great circles will form, by their in-
tersection, four angles, the opposite or vertical ones of
which will be equal, as in the case of the angles formed
by the intersection of straight lines, (Th. 4, B. I).
PROPOSITION V.
The surface of a hemisphere may be divided into three right-
angled and four quadrantal triangles, and one of these right-
angled triangles will be so related to the other two, that two
of its sides and one of its angles will be complemented to th*

tides of one of them, and two of its sides supplemental to tun
of the sides of the other.
Let ABC be a right-angled spherical triangle, right
angled at B.
Produce the sides, AB and AC, and
they will meet at A', the opposite
point on the sphere. Produce BC.
both ways, 90° from the point B, to
P and P', which are, therefore, poles
to the arc AB, (Prop. 3). Through
A, P, and the center of the sphere,
pass a plane, cutting the sphere into
two equal parts, forming a great circle on the sphere,
which great circle will be represented by the circle
PAP'A' in the figure. At right angles to this plane,
pass another plane, cutting the sphere into two equal
parts; this great circle is represented in the figure by the
straight line, POP'. A and A' are the poles to the great
circle, POP'; and P and P' are the poles to the great
circle, ABA'.
Now, CPD is a spherical triangle, right-angled at J),
and its sides CP and CD are complemental respectively
to the sides BC and AC of the A ABC, and its side PD
is complemental to the arc DO, which measures the
\_BACof the same triangle. Again, the A A'BCis right-
angled at B. and its sides A'C, A'B, are supplemental
respectively to the sides A C, AB, of the &ABC. There-
fore, the three right-angled A's, ABC, CPD, and A'BC,
have the required relations. In the A ACP, the 6ide AP
is a quadrant, and for this reason the A is called a quad-
rantal triangle. So also, are the A's A'CP, ACP', and
P'CA', quadrantal triangles. Hence the proposition.
Scholium.—In every triangle there are nix elements, three sides and
three angles, called the parts of the triangle.
Now, if all the parts of the triangle AliC are known, the parts of
each of the A's, PCD and A'BC, are as completely known. And
when the parts of the A PCD aro known, the parts of the A'8 ACI
and A'CP are also known; for, the side PD measures each of the I 'a
P4Cand PA'C, and the angle CPD, added to the right angle A'PD,
gives the | A'PC, and the [ CPA is supplemental to this. Hence,
the solution of the A ABO is a solution of the two right-angled and
four quadrantal A's, which together with it make up the surface of
the hemisphere.
PROPOSITION VI.
If there be three arcs of great circles whose poles are the
angular points of a spherical triangle, such arcs, if produced,
will form another triangle, whose sides will be supplemental
to the angles of the first triangle, and the sides of the first
triangle will be supplemental to the angles of the second.
Let the arcs of the three great cir-
cles be GH, PQ, KL, whose poles are
respectively A, B, and C. Produce the
three arcs until they meet in D, E, and
F. "We are now to prove that E is the
pole of the arc AC; D the pole of the
arc BC; F the pole to the arc AB.
Also, that the side EF, is supplemental
to the angle A; ED to the angle C;
and DF to the angle B; and also, that the side AC i»
supplemental to the angle E, etc.
A pole is 90° from any point in the circumference of
its great circle; and, therefore, as A is the pole of the
arc GH, the point A is 90° from the point E. As C is
the pole of the arc LK, C is 90° from any point i*
that arc; therefore, C is 90° from the point E; and
E being 90° from both A and C, it is the pole of the arc
A C. In the same manner, we may prove that D is the
pole of BC, and JPthe pole of AB.
Because A is the pole of the arc Gff, the arc GR
measures the angle A, (Prop. 4); for a similar reason,
PQ measures the angle B, and LK measures the angle Q,
Because E is the pole of the arc AC, EH= 90°
Or, EG + GR= 90°
For a like reason, FR+ GS = 90c

10
Adding these two equations, and observing that GF
>= A, and afterward transposing one A, we have,
EG + GH + FE = 180° — A.
Or, EF=IW°—A ~\
In like manner, FD = 180° — B \ (°)
And, DE = 180° — O J
But the arc (180°—A), is a supplemental arc to A, by
the definition of arcs; therefore, the three sides of the
triangle DEF, are supplements of the angles A, B, C, of
the triangle ABC.
Again, as E is the pole of the arc AC, the whole angle
E is measured by the whole arc LE.
But, AC+CH= 90°
Also, AC + AL = 90°
}
By addition, AC+AC+CH+ AL = 180°
By transposition, AC+ CE+AL=180°—AC
That is, LH, or E= 180°—AC
In the same manner, F = 180°—AB [ (&)
And, D=180°—BC
That is, the sides of the first triangle are supplemental
to the angles of the second triangle.
PROPOSITION Til.
The sum of the three angles of any spherical triangle, is
reater than two right angles, and less than six right angles.
Add equations (a), of the last proposition. The first
nemher of the equation so formed will be the sum of
the three sides of a spherical triangle, which sum we
may designate by S. The second member will be 6 right
angles (there being 2 right angles in each 180°) less the
three angles A, B, and C.
That is, S = 6 right angles — (A + B + 0)
By Prop. 2, the sam S is less than 4 right angles;
therefore, to it add a, a sufficient quantity to make 4
right angles. Then,
4 right angles = 6 right angles — (-4. + B + (7) -f «
Drop or cancel 4 right angles from both members, and
transpose (A + B + C).
Then, A + B + C = 2 right angles + s.
That is, the three angles of a spherical triangle make
a greater sum than two right angles by the indefinite
quantity s, which quantity is culled the spherical excess,
and is greater or less according to the size of the triangle.
Again, the sum of the angles is less than 6 right angles.
There are but three angles in any triangle, and each one of
them must be less than 180°, or 2 right angles. For, an
angle is the inclination of two lines or two planes; and
when two planes incline by 180°, the planes are parallel,
or are in one and the same plane; therefore, as neither
angle can be equal to 2 right angles, the three can never
be equal to 6 right angles.
PROPOSITION VIII.
On the same sphere, or on equal spheres, triangles which
are mutually equilateral are also mutually equiangular; and,
conversely, triangles wl'ich are mutually equiangular are also
mutually equilateral, equal sides lying opposite equal angles.
First.—-Let ABC and DEF, in
which AB = DE, AC= DF, and
BC = EF, be two triangles on
the sphere whose center is O;
then will the |_ A, opposite the
side BC, in the first triangle, be
equal the |_D, opposite the equal
side EF, in the second; also
L^o| E, andl_0=l F.

For, drawing the radii to the vertices of the angles of
these triangles, we may conceive O to he the common
vertex of two triedral angles, one of which is hounded
by the plane angles AOB, BOC, and AOC, and the other
by the plane angles DOE, EOF, and J)OF. Bat the
plane angles bounding the one of these triedral angles,
are equal to the plane angles bounding the other, each
to each, since they are measured by the equal sides of the
two triangles. The planes of the equal arcs in the two
triangles are therefore equally inclined to each other,
(Th. 20, B. VI); but the angles included between the
planes of the arcs are. equal to the angles formed by the
arcs, (Def. 3).
Hence the [_ 4, opposite the side BC, in the A ABC,
is equal to the |_ D, opposite the equal side EF, in the
other triangle; and for a similar reason, the \_B= [_E,
and the [_C=\_F.
Second.—If, in the triangles ABC and DEF, being on
the same sphere whose center is O, the \_A = \_D, the
\_B = [_E, and the LC= L^; then ^ the side AB,
opposite the [_ C, in the first, be equal to the side DE,
opposite the equal [_F, in the second; and also the side
AC equal to the side DF, and the side BC equal to the
side EF.
For, conceive two triangles, denoted by A'B'C and
D'E'F', supplemental to ABC and DEF, to be formed;
then will these supplemental triangles be mutually equi-
lateral, for their sides are measured by 180° less the
O] posite and equal angles of the triangles ABC and
DEF, (Prop. 6); and being mutually equilateral, they
are, as proved above, mutually equiangular. But the
triangles ABC and DEF are supplemental to the tri-
angles A'B'C and D'E'F'; and their sides are therefore
measured severally by 180° less the opposite and equal
angles of the triangles A'B'C and D'E'F', (Prop. 6\
Hence the triangles ABC and DEF, which are mutually
equiangular, are also mutually equilateral.
Scholium.—With the three ares of great circles, AB, AC, and BO,
either of the two triangles, ABC, DEF, may be formed; but it is evi-
dent that these two triangles cannot be made to coincide, though they
are both mutually equilateral and mutually equiangular. Sphericul
triangles on the same sphere, or on equal spheres, in which the sides
and angles of the one are equal to the sides and angles of the other,
»ach to each, but are not themselves capable of superposition, are
sailed symmetrical triangles.
PROPOSITION IX.
On the same sphere, or on equal spheres, triangles having
two sides of the one equal to two sides of the other, each to
each, and the included angles equal, have their remaining
sides and angles equal.
Let ABC and DEF be two
triangles, in which AB = DE,
AC = DF, and the angle A =
the angle D; then will the side
BO be equal to the side FE,
the L B = the [_E, and |_ C
For, if DE lies on the same
side of DF that AB does of AC, the two triangles, ABC
and DEF, may be applied the one to the other, and they
may be proved to coincide, as in the case of plane tri-
angles. But, if DE does not lie on the same side of DI
that AB does of A C, we may construct the triangle which
s symmetrical with DEF; and this symmetrical triangle,
flrhen applied to the triangle ABC, will exactly coincide
with it. But the triangle DEF, and the triangle sym-
metrical with it, are not only mutually equilateral, but
also are mutually equiangular, the equal angles lying
opposite (he equal sides, (Prop. 8); and as the one or the
other will coincide with the triangle ABC, it follows that

the triangles, ABC and DEE, are either absolutely 01
symmetrically equal.
Cor. On the same sphere, or on equal spheres, triangles
having two angles of the one equal to two angles of the other,
each to each, and the included sides equal, have their remain-
ing sides and angles equal.
For, if [_A = L A L# = [_E, and side AB = side
BE, the triangle DEF, or the triangle symmetrical with
it, will exactly coincide with A ABC, when applied to it
as in the case of plane triangles; hence, the sides and
angles of the one will be equal to the sides and angles
of the other, each to each.
PROPOSITION X.
In an isosceles spherical triangle, the angles opposite tht
equal sides are equal.
Let ABC be an isosceles spherical tri-
angle, in which AB and AC are the equal
sides; then will |_ B = |_ C.
For, connect the vertex A with D, the
middle point of the base, by the arc of a
great circle, thus forming the two mutu-
ally equilateral triangles, ADB and ADC.
They are mutually equilateral, because AD is common,
BD = DCby construction, and AB=ACby supposition;
hence they are mutually equiangular, the equal angles
being opposite the equal sides, (Prop. 8). The angles B
and C, being opposite the common side AD, are there-
254 GEOMETRY
Cor. The arc of a great circle which joins the vertex
of an isosceles spherical triangle with the middle point of
the base, is perpendicular to the base, and bisects the ver-
tical angle of the triangle; and, conversely, the arc of a

255
great circle which bisects the vertical angle of an isosceles
spherical triangle, is perpendicular to, and bisects the
base.
- PROPOSITION XI.
Jf two angles of a spherical triangle are equal, the opposite
sides are also equal, and the triangle is isosceles.
In the spherical triangle, ABC, let the \_B = |_C; then
wih the sides, AB and AC, opposite these equal angles,
be equal.
For, let P be the pole of the base, BC,
and draw the arcs of great circles, PB,
PC; these arcs will be quadrants, and at
right angles to BC, (Cor. 2, Prop. 3).
Also, produce CA and BA to meet PB
and PC, in the points E and F. Now,
the angles, PBF and PCS, are equal,
because the first is equal to 90° less the
[_ABC, and the second is equal to 90°
less the equal [_ACB; hence, the A's,
PBF and PCE, are equal in all their parts,
since they have the [_P common, the \_PBF = \_PCE,
and the side PB equal to the side PC, (Cor., Prop. 9).
PE is therefore equal to PF, and [_PEC= \_PFB.
1 Taking the equals PF and PE, from the equals PO
and PB, we have the remainders, FC and EB, equal;
and, from 180°, taking the |_'s PFB and PEC, we have
the remaining l_'s, AFO and AEB, equal. Hence, the
A's, AFC and AEB, have two angles of the one equal to
two angles of the other, each to each, and the included
sides equal; the remaining sides and angles are therefore
equal, (Cor., Prop. 9). Therefore, AC is equal to BA,
and the A ABC is isosceles.
Cor. An equiangular spherical triangle is also equilat-
eral, and the converse.

Rihark.—In this demonstration, the pole of the base, EC, is sup-
posed to fall without the triangle, ABC. The same figure may be used
for the case in which the pole falls within the triangle; the modifi-
cation the demonstration then requires is so slight and nbvious, that
it would be superfluous to suggest it.
PROPOSITION XII.
The greater of two sides of a spherical triangle is opposite
the greater angle; and, conversely, the greater of two angle*
of a spherical triangle is opposite the greater side.
Let A BC be a spherical triangle, in which the angle A
is greater than the angle B; then is the side BC greater
than the side AC.
Through A draw the arc of a
great circle, AD, making, with AB,
the angle BAD equal to the angle
ABD. The triangle, DAB, is isos-
celes, and DA = DB, (Prop. 11).
In the a A CD, CD+AD>AC,
(Prop. 1.); or, substituting for AD its equal DB, we have,
CD + DB> AC.
If in the above inequality we now substitute CB for
CD+DB, it becomes CB > CA.
Conversely; if the side CB be greater than the side CA,
then is the \_A > the [_B. For, if the [_A is not greater
than the l_B, it is either equal to it, or less than it. The
\_A is not equal to the \_B; for if it were, the triangle
would be isosceles, and CB would be equal to CA, which
is contrary to the hypothesis. The \_A is not less than
the \_B; for if it were, the side CB would be less than the
side CA, by the first part of the proposition, which is also
contrary to the hypothesis; hence, the \_A must be greater
than the \_B.


PROPOSITION XIII.
Two symmetrical spherical triangles are equal in area
Let ABC and DEF be two A's on the same sphere,
having the sides and angles of the one equal to the sides
and angles of the other, each to
each, the triangles themselves
not admitting of superposition.
It is to be proved that these
A's have equal areas.
Let P be the pole of a small
circle passing through the three
points, ABC, and connect P
with each of the points, A, B,
and C, by arcs of great circles. Next, through E draw
the arc of a great circle, EP', making the angle DEF*
equal to the angle ABP. Take EP' = BP, and draw
the arcs of great circles, P'D, P'F.
The A's, ABP and DEP', are equal in all their parts,
because AB=DE, BP=EP', and the \_ABP=[_DEP',
(Prop. 9). Taking from the [_ABC the [_ABP, and
from the \_DEF the \_DEP', we have the remaining
angles, PBC and P'EF, equal; and therefore the A's,
BCP and EFP', are also equal in all their parts.
Now, since the a's, ABP and DEP', are isosceles, they
will coincide when applied, as will also the A's, BCP
and EFP', for the same reason. The polygonal areas,
ABCP and DEFP', are therefore equivalent. If from
the first we take the isosceles triangle, PA C, and from the
second the equal isosceles triangle, P'DF, the remainders,
or the triangles ABC and DEF, will be equivalent.
Remark. — It is assumed in this demonstration that the pole P falls
without the triangle. Were it to fall within, instead of without, no
other change in the above process would be required than to add the
isosceles triangles, PAC, P'BF, to the polygonal areas, to get thf
area* of the triangles, ABC, DEF.
Cor. Two spherical triangles on the same sphere, or on
equal spheres, will he equivalent — 1st, when they are
mutually equilateral; — 2d, when they are mutually equi-
angular ; — 3d, when two sides of the one are equal to
two sidee of the other, each to each, and the included
angles are equal; — 4th, when two angles of the one are
equal to two angles of the other, each to each, and the
included aides are equal.
PROPOSITION XIV.
Tf two arcs of great circles intersect each other on the sur-
face of a hemisphere, the sum of either two of the opposite tri-
angles thus formed will be equivalent to a lune whose angle i»
the corresponding angle formed by the arcs.
Let the great circle, AEBC, be the base of a hemi-
sphere, on the surface of which the great semi-circumfer-
ences, BDA and CDE, inter-
sect each other at D; then will
the sum of the opposite tri-
angles, BDC and DAE, he
equivalent to the lune whose
angle is BDC; and the sum
of the opposite triangles,
CDA and BDE, will be equiv-
alent to the lune whose angle
is CBA.
Produce the arcs, BDA and
CDE, until they intersect on the opposite hemisphere at E;
then, since CDE and DEH are both semi-circumferences
of a great circle, they are equal. Taking from each the
common part DE, we have CB =HE. In the same way
we prove BD = HA, and AE = BC. The two triangles,
BDC and EAE are therefore mutually equi literal, and
hence they are equivalent, (Prop. 13). But the two tri-
angles, EAE and ADE, together, make up the lune

25!)
DEB AD; hence the sum of the A's, BDC and ADE, is
equivalent to the same lune.
By the same course of reasoning, we prove that the
sum of the opposite A's, DAC and DBE, is equivalent
to the lune DCHAD, whose angle is ABC.

PROPOSITION XV.
The surface of a lune is to the whole surface of the sphere,
as the angle of the lune is to four right angles; or, as the are
which measures that angle is to the circumference of a great
circle.
Let ABFCA be a lune on the
surface of a sphere, and BCE
an arc of a great circle, whose
poles are A and F, the vertices
of the angles of the lune. The
arc, BC, will then measure the
angles of the lune. Take any
arc, as BD, that will be con-
tained an exact number of times
in BC, and in the whole circum-
ference, BCEB, and, beginning at B, divide the arc and
the circumference into parts equal to BD, and join the
points of division and the poles, by arcs of great circles.
We shall thus divide the whole surface of the sphere
into a number of equal lunes. Now, if the arc BC con-
tains the arc BD m times, and the whole circumference
contains this arc n times, the surface of the lune will
contain m of these partial lunes, and the surface of the
Bphcre will contain n of the same; and we shall have,
Surf, lune : surf, sphere :: m : n.
But, m : n :: BC : circumference great circle;
hence, surf, lune : surf, sphere :: BC: cir. great circle;
or, surf, lune : surf, sphere :: \_BOO: 4 right angles.
This demonstration assumes that BD is a common
measure of the arc, BC, and the whole circumference. It
may happen that no finite common measure can be
found; but our reasoning would remain the same, even
though this common measure were to become indefinitely
Bmall.
Hence the proposition.
Cor. 1. Any two lunes on the same sphere, or on equal
spheres, are to each other as their respective angles.
ScnoLiuM. — Spherical triangles, formed by joining the pole of an
arc of a great circle with the extremities of this arc by the arcs of
great circles, are isosceles, and contain two right angles. For this
reason they are called bi^rectangular. If the base is also a quadrant,
the vertex of either angle becomes the pole of the opposite side, and
each angle is measured by its opposite side. The three angles are then
right angles, and the triangle is for this reason called tri-rectangular.
It is evident that the surface of a sphere contains eight of its tri-
rectangular triangles.
Cor. 2. Taking the right angle as the unit of angles,
and denoting the angle of a lune by A, and the surface
of a tri-rectangular triangle by T, we have,
surf, of lune : 8T :: A : 4;
whence, surf, of lune = 2A x T.
Cor. 3. A spherical ungula bears the same relation to
the entire sphere, that the lune, which is the base of the
angula, bears to the surface of the sphere; and hence,
any two spherical ungulas in the same sphere, or in
equal spheres, are to each other as the angles of their re-
spective lunes.
PROPOSITION XVI.
The area of a spherical triangle is measured by the excess
of the sum of its angles over two right angles, multiplied by
the tri-rectangular triangle.
Let ABC he a spherical triangle, and DEFLK the cir-
cumference of the base of the hemisphere on which this
triangle is situated.

Produce the sides of the tri- >
angle until they meet this cir-
cumference in the points, D, E,
F, L, K, and P, thus forming
the sets of opposite triangles,
DAE, AKL; BEF, BPK; CFL,
CLP.
Now, the triangles of each of
these sets are together equal to
a lune, whose angle is the cor-
responding angle of the triangle, (Prop. 14); hence we
have,
A DAE + A AKL = 2 A x T, (Prop. 15, Cor. 2).
ABEF + ABPK = 2B x T.
A CFL + A CDP = 2C X T.
If the first members of these equations be added, it is
evident that their sum will exceed the surface of the
hemisphere by twice the triangle ABC; hence, adding
these equations member to member, and substituting for
the first member of the result its value, 47 + 2 A ABC,
we have
47 + 2aABC = 2A.T + 2B.T + 2C.T
or, 2T+ AABC = A.T + B.T + C.T
whence, AABC= A.T + B.T + C.T—2T.
That is, AABC = {A + B + C— 2) T.
But A + B + C— 2 is the excess of the sum of the
angles of the triangle over two right angles, and T de-
notes the area of a tri-rectangular triangle.
Hence the proposition; the area, tie.
PROPOSITION XVII.
The area of any spherical "polygon is measured by the excess
of the sum of all its angles over two right angles, taken as
many times, less two, as the polygon has sides, multiplied by
the tri-rectangular triangle.
Let ABCDE be a spherical poly- £
gon; then will it3 area be meas- b^*"— /
ured by the excess of the sum of /\ /
the angles, A, B, C, D, and E, over / \
two riarht angles taken a number / \
of times which is two less than _/, -~>E
the number of sides, multiplied by \ /
T, the tri-rectangular triangle. \. /
Through the vertex «>t* any of the p
angles, as E, and the vertices of
the opposite angles, pass arcs of great circles, thus divi-
ding the polygon into as many triangles, less two, as the
polygon has sides. The sum of the angles of the several
triangles will be equal to the sum of the angles of the
polygon.
Now, the area of each triangle is measured by the
excess of the sum of its angles over two right angles,
multiplied by the tri-rectangular triangle. Hence the
sum of the areas of all the triangles, or the area of the
polygon, is measured by the excess of the sum of all the
angles of the triangles over two right angles, taken as
many times as there are triangles, multiplied by the tri-
rectangular triangle. But there are as many trianglps as
the polygon has sides, less two.
Hence the proposition; the area of any spherical poly-
gon, etc.
Cor. If S denote the sum of the angles of any spherical
polygon, n the number of sides, and T the tri-rectan-
gular triangle, the right angle being the unit of angles;
the area of the polygon will be expressed by
[S— 2 (n — 2)] x T = (S— 2» + 4) T.
Household Words."
Robinson's Progressive Course
MATHEMATICS,
ROBINSON'S PROGRESSIVE COURSE OF
MATHEMATICS, being the most complete and scientific course of
Mathematical Text-books published, is more extensively used in the Schools
and Educational Institutions of the United States than any competing series.
In its preparation two objects were kept constantly in view: First, to fur-
nish a full and complete Series of Text-Books, which should be sufficientto give
the pupil a thorough and practical business education; Second, to secure that
intellectual culture without which the mere acquisition of book knowledge is
almost worthless.
All the.improvements of the best modern Text-Books, as well as many new
and original methods, and practical operations not found in other similar works,
have been incorporated into these books, and no labor or expense has been
spared to give to the public a clear, scientific, comprehensive and complete
system, not incumbered with unnecessary theories, but combining and system-
atizing real improvements of a practical and useful kind.
Robinson s Shorter Course.
In order to meet a demand from many quarters for a Series of Arithmetics,
few in number and comprehensive in character, we have published the above
course, in TWO books, in which Oral and Written Arithmetic is combined.
These books have met with very great popularity, having been introduced into
several of the largest cities in the United States. They are unusually hand-
some in get-up, and are substantially bound in cloth.
*#* Descriptive Circulars and Price Lists will be forwarded to Teachers
and Educationists on application. The most liberal terms 'wilt be made for in-
troduction^ exchange and examination.
Ivison, Blakeman, Tatloe & Co.,
Publishers,
New York and Chicago.
FOR
HIGH SCHOOLS.
TH ERE are no text-books that require in their preparation so much prac-
tical scholarship, combined with the teacher's experience, as those com-
piled for use in High Schools, Seminaries and Colleges. The treatment must
be succinct yet thorough ; accuracy of statement, clearness of expression, and
scientific gradation are indispensable. We have no special claims to make for
our list on the score of the Ancient Classics, but in the modern languages,
French, German and Spanish, in Botany, Geology, Chemistry and Astronomy,
and the Higher Mathematics, Moral and Mental Science, etc., etc., we chal-
lenge comparison with any competing books. Many of them are known to all
scholars, and are reprinted abroad, while others have enjoyed a National repu-
tation for many years.
WOODBURY'S GERMAN COURSE. Comprising a full series, from
"The Easy Lessons" to the most advanced manuals.
FASQUELLE'S FRENCH COURSE. On the plan of Woodbury's
Method ; also a complete series.
MIXER'S MANUAL OF FRENCH POETRY.
LANGUELLIER & MONSANTO'S FRENCH GRAMMAR.
HENNEQUIN'S FRENCH VERBS.
MONSANTO'S FRENCH STUDENT'S ASSIS7ANT.
MONSANTO <fc LANGUELLIER'S SPANISH GRAMMAR.
GRAY'S BOTANICAL SERIES
DANA'S WORKS ON GEOLOGY.
ELIOT db STORER'S CHEMISTRY.
ROBINSON'S HIGHER MATHEMATICS.
SWINTON'S OUTLINES OF HISTORY.
WILLSON'S OUTLINES OF HISTORY.
CATIICART'S LITERARY READER.
HICKOK'S WORKS ON METAPHYSICS.
HUNT'S LITERATURE OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
WELLS' WORKS ON NATURAL SCIENCE.
KERL'S COMPREHENSIVE ENGLISH GRAMMAR.
WEBSTER'S ACADEMIC DICTIONARY.
TOWNSEND'S CIVIL GOVERNMENT.
WHITE'S DEA WING.
TAYLOR-Kl'HNER'S GREEK GRAMMAR.
KIDDLE'S ASTRONOMY.
SWINTON'S COMPLETE GEOGRAPHY. Etc. ETe.
*** Descriptive Circulars and Price Lists will be sent to Teachers and Edu-
cationists on application. Liberal terms will be made for introduction, exchange
and examination.
IVISON, BLAKEMAN, TAYLOR & CO., Publishers,
NEW YORK and CHICAGO.
•".
1
