THE
p
life:
AND
MOST SURPRISING ADVENTURES
OF

OF YORK, MARINER
FOURTH EDITION.
DUBLIN
FBIXTtC BY JOHN JONES, 40, SOUTH UBtAT QEOROE's-St.
\.NOV 20 1928
ii b r \ *\
THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I was bom at York, in the year 1632, of a
reputable family. My father was a native of
Bremen, who, by merchandizing at Hull for
some time, gained a very plentiful fortune.
He married my mother at York, who received
her first breath in that country: and as her
maiden name was Robinson, I waS called
Robinson Kreutznaer, which not being. easily
pronounced in the English tongue, we are com-
monly known by the name of Crusoe.
I was the youngest of three brothers. The
eldest was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart's
regiment, but slain by the Spaniards: what
became of the other I could never learn.
No charge nor pains were wanting in my
education. My father designed me for the
Jaw, yet nothing could serve me But I must go
to aea, both against the will of my lather, the
6
tears of my mother, and the intreaties of my
friends. One morning, my father expostulated
very warmly with me. What reason, says he,
have you to leave your native country, where
there must be a more certain prospect of con-
tent and happiness, to enter into a wandering
condition of uneasiness and uncertainty? He
recommended to me Agur's wish, Neither to
desire poverty, nor riches; that a middle state
of life was the most happy; and that the high
towering thoughts of raising our condition by
wandering abroad, were surrounded with mi-
sery and danger, and often ended with confu-
sion and disappointment. I entreat you, nay,
I command you, (says he,) to desist from these
intentions. If you 'will go, (added he) my
prayers shall however be offered for your pre- ,
servation; but a time may come, when deso-
late, oppressed, or forsaken, you may wish,
you had taken your poor despised father's
counsel. He pronounced those words with
.such a moving and paternal eloquence, while
floods of tears ran down his aged cheeks, that
it seemed to stem the torrent of my resolutions.
But this soon wore off, and a little after, 1 in- .
farmed my mother that I could not settle at
any business, my resolution was so strong to
see the world, and begged she would gain my
father's consent only to go one voyage; which
if it did not prove prosperous, J would never
attempt a second. But my desire was as vain
as my folly in asking. My mother passionately,
expressed ber dislike of this proposal, tejliiy .
7
rao, That as she saw I was le-ni a* my own
destruction, contrary to their will ami my duty,
she mould say no more,, but lea ve me to myself ',
io do whatsoever I flensed.
I was ibeu, I tlutik, nineteen years old,
when one time being at Hull, I met a sehool-
fellow of urine going along with his father, who
was master of a ship, to I^ondon, and aotjuaiat.
ing him with my wandering desires, ke a**uned
me of a free passage, and a plentiful shwe of
what was necessary, Thus, without implorieg
a blessing, or t^kieg a farewel of my parents, I
took shipping on the first of September 1051.
CFpon the .sixth day vvo camo to an anchor in
Harwich road, whore we lay wind-bouad with
some Newcastle ships; and these being a good
anchorage, and our cables sound, the seaman
forgot their late toil and danger, and spent
iho time as merrily as if they had been on
shure. But on the eighth day, there.aurose a
brisk gale of wjnd, which prevented'^.oux
tiding it up tbe river; and it, still increasing,
ojir ship rodo forecastle in, and shipped, se-
.v«.ral largo seas. ; { .
It was not l&ng before honor seized. the
seamen themselves', and. I heard the masier
,express this melancholy.ejaculation. Lord have
fnerjcy upon.us, we shall be all lofit and undone!
Yotmy part, sick unto death, I kept my cabin,
till the universal and terribly dreadful appre-
hensions of our speedy fate made me get upon
deck, .and there I W!;s..atjiigbted indeed, 'i'ha
*e,a. .vvc/^ uiQimtains high.: I euuld. *e»nothing
8
but distress around us; two ships had cat away
their masts, and another had foundered: two
more that had lost their anchors, were forced
out to the mercy of the ocean: and, to save
,our lives, we were forced to cut our foremast
and mainmast quite away.
Who is there so ignorant as not to judge of
my dreadful condition? I was but a fresh
water sailor, and therefore seemed more ter-
rified. Our ship was very good, but over-
loaded; which made the sailors often cry out,
She will founder: words I then was ignorant
of. All this while, the storm continuing, and
rather increasing, the master and the more
sober part of the men went to prayers, ex-
pecting death every moment. In the middle
of the night, one cried out, We had sprung a
leak: another, Thai therewas four feet water
in the hold. I was just ready to expire with
fear, when immediately all hands were called
to the pump: and ihe men forced me also in
that extremity to share with them in their la.
bour. While thus employed, the master espy-
ing 3onie colliers, fired a gun as a signal of dis-
tress; and I not understanding what it meant,
and thinking that either the ship was wrecked,
or some dreadful thing had happened, fell into
a swoon. Even in that condition of wo, nobody
minded me, excepting to thrust me aside with
their feet, thinking me dead; and I was a great
while before I recovered.
Happy it was for us, when, upon the signal
given, they ventured out thejr boat to save onr
9
lives. All our pumping had been in vain, and
vain had all Our other efforts been, had they not
come to our ship's side, and our men cast
them a rope over the stern with a buoy, to it,
which after great difficulty they caught hold of,
and we hauling them to us got into their boat,
and left our ship, which we perceived sink
'within less than a quarter of an hour: and
thus I learned what was meant by foundering
at sea. And now the men incessantly la-
boured to recover their own ship; but. the
sea ran so high, and, the wind blew so hard,
that they thought it convenient to haul x in
shore, which with great difficulty and danger
at last we happily effected, landing at a place
called Cromer, not far from Winterton light-
house; from whence we all walked to Yar-
mouth, where, as objects of pity, many good
people furnished us with the necessaries to carry
us either to Hull or London.
Strange! that after all this, I did not, like
the prodigal son, return to my father: who,
. hearing of the ship's calamity, for a long- time
thought me entombed in the deep. No doubt
but I should have snared in his fatted calf, as
the Scripture expresseth it: but my wayward
djsp osition still pushed me on, in spite of the
powerful convictions of reason and conscience.
When we had been at Yarmouth three days,
I met my old companion who had given me
the invitation to go on board along with his
father His behaviour and speech were altered,
A 5
10
and, in a melancholy manner he asked me how I
did? telling his father who I was, andhow I had
made this voyage for a trial only before I should
proceed farther abroad. Upon which the old
gentleman turning to me, said, Young man, I
recommend you tochuse another line o) life; the
sea is an uncertain element to trust to, and you
have lately experienced some of the hardships to
which sailors are exposed. Sir, answered I,
will you take the same resolution? It is a dif-
ferent case, said he, it is my calling, and, con-
sequently my duty to remain contented with it;
but as you have made this voyage for a trial
merely, and haee every other litie open to you,
I think you might chuse one less liable to hard-
ship and reverses. But pray what are you, and
on what account did you goto sea. Upon which.
1 very freely declared my whole story; at the
end of which he said, in a tone of seriousness,
which I shall never forget, Young man, you
ought to thank God, that you did not perish
whilst you were committing this act of disobedi-
ence to your Father; had I known these cir-
cumstances, you may be assured I never should
have sufferedyou to sail along with us; thank
God, however, that you. may still alone for the
past. Return to your Parents, they will for-
give you, but if you do not, recollect your Fa.
ther'swords, and beware lest hiswarningshoutd
be realized ;—and so we parted-
I thought at first to return home; but shamo
opposed that good notion, as thinking I should
11
be laughed s.t by my neighbours and acqaa«it.
ances. So strange is the nature of youth, wh«
are not ashamed to sin, but yet asliamed to re-
pent; and sO far from being ashamed of those ,
actions for which they may be accounted tools,
they think it folly to return to their duly, which
is the principal mark of wisdom. In short, 1 /
travelled up to London, resolving upon a
voyage; and a voyage I soon heard of, by my
acquaintance with a captain who took a fancy
to me, to go to the coast of Guinea. Having
some money, and appearing like a gentleman,
I went on board, not as a common sailor or
foremast-man; nay, the commander agreed I
should go that voyage with him without any
expense; that I should be his messmate and
companion, and that I was welcome to carry
any thing with me, and make the best mot
cbandise 1 could.
I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly
thanked the captain for his offer, and acquaint-
ing my friends in Yorkshire, forty pounds were
sent me, the greatest part of which, my dear
lather and mother contributed, with which I
bought toys and trifles, as the captain directed
me. My captain also taught me navigation, ,
so that 1 soon knew how to keep an account
of the ship's course, and to take an observa-
tion, and also became acquainted with several use-
ful branches of the mathematics. And indeed this
voyage made me both a sailor^and a merchant;
for I brought home five pounds nine ounce*,
Troy weight of gold dust, for my adventure,
12
which produced, at. ray return to London, at*
most three hundred pounds; but in this voyage
t was extremely sick, being thrown into a very
violent fever through excessive heat, trading,
upon the coast from the latitude of fifteen .de-
grees north, even to the line itself.
Bat, alas! my dear friend the captain de-
parted this life soon after his arrival. This wag
a sensible grief to me; yet I resolved to go
another voyage with his mate, who had now
got command of the ship. This proved a.
very unsuccessful one; for though I did not
carry a hundred pounds of my late acquired
wealth, (so that I had two hundred pounds
left, which I reposed with the Captain's widow,
who was an honest gentlewoman,) yet my mis-
fortunes in this voyage were very great. For
our ship sailing towards the Canary Islands,
we were chased by a Sake rover; and in spite
of aH the haste we could make; by crowding
as much canvas as our yards could spread, or
our masts carry, the pirate gained upon us,
so that we prepared' ourselves to fight. They
had eighteen guns, and we had but twelve.
About three in the afternoon, there was a des.
perate engagement, wherein many were killed
'And wounded on both sides: but finding our-
selves overpowered with numbers, our ship,
disabled, and ourselves too impotent to haye
the least hopes of success, we were forced to
surrender; and accordingly we were all carried
prisoners into the port of Salee. Our men
were sent to the Emperor's court to' be sold
there; but the pirate captain taking notice oi
me, kept me to be his own slave.
In this condition, I thought myself the most
miserable creature on earth, and the warning
of my father came afresh into my thoughts.
However, my condition was better than I
thought it to be, as will soon appear. Somo
hopes, indeed, I had that my new patron would
go to sea again, where he' might be taken by a
Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and then
I should be set at liberty. But in this I was
mistaken; for he. never took me with him, but
left me to look after his little garden, and do
the drudgery of his house, and when he re-
turned from sea, would make me lie in the
cabin, and look after the ship. I had no one
that I could communicate my thoughts to,
which were continually meditating my escape,
No Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman, in
short, no Briton amongst his slaves but myself;
and for two years I could see nothing practica-
ble, but only pleased myself with devising
plans which I was always obliged to relinquish.
After some length of time, my patron as I
found, grew so poor, that he could not fit out
his ship as usual; and then he used constantly
once or twice a week, if the weather was fair,
to go out a fishing, taking me and a young
Moorish boy to row the boat; and so much
pleased was he with me for my dexterity in
catching the fish, that he would, often send me
with a Moor, who was one of his kinsmen, and
the youth before-mentioned, to catch a dish qf
fish for him.
14
One morning, as we were fishing, there
arose such a thick fog, that we lost sight of tha
shore; and rowing, we knew noi which way,
we laboured all the night, and in the morning
we found ourselves in the ocean, two leagues
from land, However, we attained there at
length, and made the greatest haste, because
our stomaelis were exceedingly sharp and hun-
gry. In order to prevent such disasters for
the future, my patron ordered a carpenter to
build a little state-room or cabin in the middle
iof the long boat, with a place behind it to
steer'and haul home the main sheet, with other
.conveniences to keep him from the weather, as
also lockers to put in all manner of provisions;
with a handsome shoulder-of-mutton sail, gibing
over the cabin.
In this, ho'frequently took us out a fishing;
and one time, inviting two or three persons of
distinction to go with him, laid in provisions
extraordinary: providing also three fusees,
with powder and shot, that they might kill
some tsea fowl along the coast. The next
morning, the boat was made clean, her ^ancients
and pendants out, and every thing ready; but
their minds altering, my patron ordered us to
go a-fishing, for that his gucste would certainly
sup with him that night.
And now I began to think of my deliverance
indeed. In order to this, I persuaded the
Moor to get some provisions on board, and to
!irocure some powder and s hot, pretending to
All sea-curlews, Which Lo innocently and rea.
15
dily agreed to. In short, being provided with
all things necessary, we sailed out.
When we had passed the castle, we fell to
afishing; but though I knew there was a bite, I
dissembled the matter, in order to put farther
out to sea. Accordingly we ran a league far-
ther, when, giving the boy the helm, and pre-
tending to stoop for something. I seized Muley
by surprise, and threw him overboard. As
be was an excellent swimmer, he soon arose,
and made towards the boat; upon which I
took out a fusee, and presented it at him:
"Mufey," said I, "I never yet designed to
"do you any harm, and seek nothing now but
"my freedom. I know you are able enough
"to swim to shore, and save your life; but if
"you are resolved to follow me to the cn- .
"dangering of mine, the very moment you
"proceed, I will shoot you through the head."
The harmless creature, at these words, turned
himself from me, and, I make no doubt, got
safe to land. Then turning to the boy Xury,
I perceived he trembled at the action; but I
put him out of all fear; telling him, that if
he would be true and faithful to me, 1 would
do well by him, and not hurt him.
We then pursued our voyage, I kept to the
southward, to the truly Barbarian coast; bnt
in tho dark of the evening I changed my course,
that I might keep near the shore; and having
a fresh gale of wind, with a very pleasant
smooth sea, by three o'clock next day, I was
150 miles beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
16
dominions. I continued sailing for five dayi
successively, till such time as the wind shifting
to the southward, made me conclude that, if
any vessel was in chace of me, they would
proceed no further.
After so much fatigue and thought, 1 an-
chored at the mouth of a little river, I knew
not what, or where, neither did I then see any
people. What I principally wanted was fresh
water; and I was resolved about the dusk of
the evening to swim ashore: but no sooner
did the gloomy clouds of night begin to suc-
ceed the declining day, than we heard such
barking, roaring, and howling of wild creftT
tu res, that one might have thought the very
strongest monsters of nature had their residence
there. Poor Xury, who was almost dead with
fear, entreated me not to go on shore that night.
"Suppose I don't, Xury," said I, "and in the
"morning we should sec men who are worse
"than those we fear, what then?" "O den
"we may give dem de 6hoot gun," said he,
"laughing, "and de gun make dem all run L
'' away." The wit, and broken English which
the boy had learned from myself, for we bad
passed a great deal of our time together,
pleased.me entirely, and made me still fonder.
of him than before. We could get but little
sleep all the night for the terrible howlings they
made; and indeed we were very much affrighted.
The next morning, T was resolved to go on
shore to get in fresh water, and ventured my-
self among the beasts or savages, should either
17
attack me. Xury said he would take one of the
jars, and bring me gome. I asked him why he
would go and not I? The poor boy answered,
"If wild mans come, they eat me, yon go
"away." This, indeed increased my affec-
tion for the child. "Well, deor Xury," said I,
we will both go ashore, both kill wild mans,
"and they shall eat neither of us." So giving
Xury a piece of bread to eat, we waded ashore,
carrying nothing with us but our arms, and two
jars for wi'.ter. I did not go out of sight of the
boat, as dreading the savages coming down the
river in their canoes: but the boy seeing a low
descent or vale about a mile in the country, he
wandered to it; and then running, back to me,
with great precipitation, I thought he was pur-
sued by some savages or wild beasts; upon
which I approached, resolving to perish, or pro-
tect him from danger. As he came nearer to
me, I saw something hanging over his shoul-
ders, which was a creature he had shot like a
hare, but different in colour, and with longer
legs; however, we were glad of it, for it proved
wholesome and nourishing meat; but what
added to our joy was, my boy assured me
there was plenty of water, and that he "saw
"no wild mans." And greater still was our
comfort, when we found fresh water in the
creek where wo were, when the tide was out,
without going so far \ip into the country.
In this place I began to hope that I should
meet some of the English trading vessels, who
would relieve and take ns in.
18
The place I was in was no doubt, that wild,
.country, inhabited only by a few, that lies
between the Emperor of Morocco's dominions
and the negroes. It is filled with wild heasis,
and the Moors use it for hunting chiefly.—
From this place, I thought I saw the top of the
.'mountain Teneriffe, in the Canaries, which
wiade me try twice to attain it, but as often
was I driven back, and so forced to pursue my
fortune along shore.
Early one morning wc came to an anchor
under a fittle point of land, but pretty high:
.and the tide beginning to flow, we lay ready
to go further in; hut Xury, whose youthful and
penetrating eyes we/e sharper than mine, in a
soft tone, desired me to keep far from land,
lest we should he devoured; "For, look yon-.
"der, .muyster, and see de dreadful monster
"fast asleep on de side of de hill," Accord-
ingly looking where 'he pointed, I espied a
fearful monster indeed. . It was a terrible great
'liou that lay on shore, covered as it.werebya
shade of a piece of the hrll. "Xury ,7 said I,
you shall go on shore and kill him." But
the boy looked amazed. "Me kill hina I" says
he, "he eat me at one mouth," moaning one
mouthful. Upon which I bid him lie still, and
charging my biggest gun with two slugs, and
a good charge of powder, and pulling in shore
till we had come within musket shot of the
place where he lay, I took the best aim I
could to shoot him through the head, but his
ftg lying over his nose, the slug broke his
Juje.e bone. The lion awaking with the pain,
got up, but soon fell down, giving the most
hideous groan I ever heard; but taking toy
second piece, I shot him through. the head,
and then he lay struggling for life. Upon this
Xury took heart, and desired my leave to go
on shore. "Go then," said I. Upon which,
taking a little gun in one hand, he swam to
shore with the other, and coming close to the
lion, put a period to his life, by shooting him
again through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in
vain, the flesh not being good to eat. Xury
was like a champion, and comes on board for
a hatchet to cut off the head of his enemy;
but wanting strength to perform it, he cut off
and brought me a foot. I bethought me, how-
ever, that his skin would be of use. This cost
Xury and me a whole day : wb.en .spreading it
on the top of our cabin,' the hot beams of the
sun effectually dried it in two days time, and
it afterwards served me for a bed to lie on.
And now we sailed southerly, living spar-
ingly on our provisions, and went no oftener
on shore than we were obliged for fresh water,
in hopes to meet some European ship. If
Providence did not favour me, my next course
'was to seek for the islands, or lose my life
among the negroes; in a word, either I must
meet with some ship, or certainly perish.
One day as we were sailing along, we saw
people standing on the shore and looking at us;
we could also perceive they were black, and
stark naked. I was inclined to go on shore; but
20
Xury cried, No, no; however, I'approached
nearer, and I found they ran along the shore
by me a long way. They had no weapons in
their hands, except one, who held a Ion"
stick, which Xury told me was a lance, with
which they conld kill at a great distance. I
talked to them by signs, and made them sen-
sible I wanted something to eat; they beckon-
ed to me to stop my boat, while two of them
ran up into the country, and in less than half
an hour came back, and brought with them
two pieces of dry flesh, and some corn, which
we gratefully accepted; and to prevent any
fears on either side, they brought the food to the
shore, laid it down, then went and stood a
great way off, till we fetched it on board, and
then came close to us again.
But while we were returning thanks to
them, being all we could afford, two mighty
creatures came from the mountains, one as it
were pursuing the other with great fury, which
we were the rather inclined to believe, as they
seldom appear but in the night, and both these
swiftly passing by the negroes, jumped into
the sea, wantonly swimming about, as though
the diversion of the waters had put a stop to
their fierceness. At last one of them coming
nearer to my boat than I expectrd, or desired,
I shot him dkectly through the head, upon
which he.sunk immediately, yet' rising again,
he would have willingly made to the shore*
but between the wound and the struggling in
the water, he died before he could reach it.
21
It is impossible to express the consternation
Hie poor negroes were in at the firing of my
gun; much less can I mention their surprise,
when they perceived the creature to be slain by
it. I made signs to'them to draw it near with
a rope, and then gave it to them to haul on
shore. It was a beautiful leopard, which made
rue desire its skin; and the negroes seeming
to cdvet the carcase, I freely gave it to them.
As for the other leopard, it made to shore,
and ran with a prodigious swiftness out of
sight. The negroes having kindly furnished
me with water, and with what roots and grains
their country afforded,_ I look my leave, and
after eleven days sail, : came in sight of the
Cape de Verd. But the great distance I wan
from it, and fearing contrary winds would
prevent my reaching them, I began, to grow
melancholy and dejected, when upon a sudden.
Xury cried out, "Master, master," looking as
affrighted as if it was his master's ship sent in
search of us. But I soon discovered she was
a Portuguese ship. Upon which I strove for
life to come up to them. But in vain had it
been, if through their perspective glasses, they
had not perceived us, and shortened their sail
to let us come in. Encouraged at this, I set
up my patron's ancient, and fired a gun, both
as signals of distress; imon which they very
kindly lay to, so that in three hours time I came
up with them. They spoke to me in Portu-
guese, Spanish, and French, but none of these
did I understand, till at length a Scots sailor
22
«&Iled, and then I told him I was an English-
man, who had escaped from the Moors at
Salee, upon which they took me kindly on
board, with all my effects.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brazils,
we arrived in the Bay de Todos los Santos,
or, All Saints Bay, in twenty-two days after.
And here I cannot forget the generous treat-
ment of the captain. He would take nothing
for my 'passage, gave me twenty ducats for
the leopard's skin, and thirty for the lion's.
Every thing he caused to be delivered to me, and
what T would sell he bought. In short, I
made 220 pieces of my cargo, and with this
stock I entered once more, as I may say, into
the scene of life
To be brief, I bought a settlement next
door' to an honest and kind neighbour, bom
at Lisbon, of English parents, whose planta-
tion joining to mine, we improved very ami-
cably together. Both our stocks were low;
and for two years we planted only for food:
but the third year we planted same tobacco,
and each of us dressed 'a large piece of ground,
the ensuing year, for planting sugar-canes.
I was in some measure settled, before the
captain who took me up departed from the Bra-
zils. One day I went to him, and told him what
stock I had in London, desiring his assistance
in getting it sent out to me; to which the.good
entleman readily consented, but would only
ave me send'for half my money, Jest it should
miscarry, \ylrich, if it did, I might still have the
23
remainder to support me; and so taking' leS*
'ters of procuration from mo, bid mc .troublW
myself no further about it.
And indeed, be not only procured the
money I bad drawn for upon niy captain's
widow, bnt sent me over a servant, with a
cargo proportionable to my condition. fie
also sent me over tools of all sorts, iron work
and utensils necessary for my plantation.
Wealth now increasing on me, and uncon:.»
in on success crowning my prosperous labours,
I might have rested happy in that middle state
of life which my father so often recommended;
yet nothing would content me. Having lived
four years in Brazil, 1 had not only learned the
language, but contracted acquaintance with
the most eminent planters, and even with the
merchants of St. Salvadote, three of whom
came one morning to me, saying they had
a secret proposal to make. After enjoining
me to secrecy,' they told me "they bad a mind
to fit out a ship to go to Guinea, in order to
stock the plantation with negroes, which, as
they could not be publicly sold, they would
'divide among them; and if I would go their
supercargo' in the ship, to manage the trading
part, I should have an equal share of the
negroes, without providing' any stock. The
thing'indeed was lair enough, had I been in
another condition: however, I could not re-
sist the proposal, but accepted the oflfer; Hpo»
condition of their looking 'after niv.'plants.
JW; c .;';', .
The ship being fitted out, and all thiols
ready, we set sail the first of September, l&5v>.
We sailed northward upon the coast, from
whence going farther into the ocean out of the
sight of land, we steered as though we were,
bound for the island Femand de Norenba,
leaving the island on the east; and then it
was we met with a terrible tempest, which
continued for twelve days successively, so
that the winds carried us wheresoever they
board. When the weather cleared up a little,
we found ourselves upon the coast of Guiana.
Upon this the captain gave reasons for return-
ing; which I opposed, counselling him to
stand away for Barbadoes, which, as I sup.
posed, might be attained in fifteen days. So
altering our course, we sailed north.west and
by west, in order to reach the Leeward
Islands; but a second storm succeeding, drove
us to the westward, so that we were justly
afraid of falling into the hands of cruel sa-
vages, or the paws of devouring beasts of prey.
In this great distress, one of the men, early in
the morning, cried out, Land! Land! which
he had no sooner said, than our ship struck
upon a sand-bank, and, in a moment, the sea
broke over her in such a n.ann/er that we ex-
pected we should perish immediately. We
knew not where we were, or upon what land
we were driven, whether it was an island or
the njainf inhabited or not inhabited, and we

23
could not so much as hope, lhat the ship
would hold out many minutes, without break-
ing in pieces, unless the wind by a miracle
should turn about immediately. While we
stood looking at one another, expecting death
every moment, the mate lays hold of the boat,
and with the help of the rest got her flung
over the ship's side; into this we all got, being
eleven in number and committed ourselves to
God's mercy, and the wild sea. And now we
saw that this last effort would not be a suffi-
cient protection from death; so high did the
sea rise, that it was impossible the boat should
live. As to making a sail we had none, nei-
ther if we had, could ~we make use of any. So
that when we had rowed, or rather were driven
about a,league and a half, a raging wave, like
a lofty 'mountain, catne rolling a-stern of us,
and took us with such fury, that at once it
overset the boat. Thus being swallowed up
in a moment, we had only time to call upon
the awful name of God, and to implore, in
dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy to re-
ceive our departing souls. .
Men are generally counted insensible, when
struggling in the pangs of death; but While I
was overwhelmed with water, I had the most
dreadful apprehensions imaginable, for $ie
thoughts of every thing which I had done
amiss came crowding to my mind. I had dis-
obeyed my parents, I had slighted their ad-
vice, I had left them to follow my own way-
ward inclination, and I was now about to ap-
3f
pear before that Being whom I bad offended.
I was going I thought I knew not whither, in a
dismal gulph unknown, and as yet unperceived,
never to behold my friends, nor the light of this
world any more! I strove however to the last
extremity, while all my companions were over-
powered and entombed in the deep; and it was
with great difficulty I kept my breath till the
wave spent itself, and, retiring back, left me
on the shore half dead with the water I had
taken in. As soon as I got on my feet, I ran
as fast as I could, lest another wave should
pursue mo, and carry me back again. But for
all the haste [ made, 1 could not avoid it, for
the sea came after me like a high mountain, or
a furious enemy; so that my business was to
hold my breath, and by raising myself on the
water, to save myself by swimming. The next
dreadful wave buried me at once twenty or
thirty feet deep, but at the same time, carried
me with a mighty force and swiftness towards
the shore, when raising myself, I hold out a*
well as possible, till, at length, the water, hav-
ing spent itself, began to return, at which I
struck forward, and feeling ground again with
my feet, I took to my heels. Thus being
served twice more, I was at last dashed against
a piece of rock, in such a manner, as left me
senseless, but recovering a little before the re-
turn of the wave, which no doubt would then
overwhelm me, I held fast by the rock till those
succeeding waves abated; and then fetching
another run, was overtaken by a small wave,
, , B.2:
28
which was soon conquered. But before any
more could overtake me, I reached the main-
land, where clambering up the cliffs of the
shore, tired and almost spent, I sat down on
the gmss, free from the danger of the foaming
ocean.
No tongue can express the transports, that
my soul felt at this happy delivemnce. I was
wrapt up in contemplation, and often lifted up
my hands, with the profoundest humility, to
the divine power for saving my life; when the
rest of my companions were all drowned. And
now I began to cast my eyes around, and to
behold what place I was in, and what I had
next to do. 1 could see no house nor people;
I was wet, yet had no clothes to shift me;
hungry and thirsty, yet had nothing to eat or
drink, no weapon to destroy any creature for
my sustenance, nor defend myself against de-
vouring beasts; in short I had nothing but a
knife, a tobacco pipe, and a box half filled
with tobacco. The darksome night coming
upon me, increased my fears of being devour-
ed by wild creatures, my mind was plunged
in despair, and having no prospect, as I
thought of life before me, I prepared for ano-
ther kind of death than what I had lately es-
caped. I walked about a furlong to see if I
could find any fresh water, which I did to my
great joy; and taking a quid of tobacco to
prevent hunger, I got up into a thick bushy
tree, and soating myself so that I could not
fall, a deep sleep overtook me, and for that
night, buried my sorrows in quiet repose.
29
It was broad day, tlie next morning, before I
awoke, when I not only perceived the tempest
was ceased, but saw the ship driven almost as
• far as the rock before mentioned, which was
about a mile from the place where I was.—
When I came down from my apartment in the
tree, 1 perceived the ship's boat two miles dis-
tant on my right hand, lying on shore as the
waves had cast her. I thought to have got to
her; but there being an inlet of water about
half a mile's breadth between it and me, I re-
turned again towards the ship, as hoping to
find something for my more immediate subsist-
ence. About noon, 'when the sea was so calm
that I could come within a quarter oi a mile of .
her, it was to my grief I perceived, that if we
had kept on board, all our lives would have
been saved. These thoughts and my solitude
drew tears from my eyes, though all in vain.
So resolving to get to the ship, I stripped and
waded as far as I could find depth; after which,
swimming round her, I was afraid I could not
get any thing to lay hold of; but it was my good
iortune to espy a small piece of. rope hanging
down so low, that, by the help of it, though
with great difficulty, 1 got into the ship. Here
I found that the ship was bilged, and had a great
deal of, water in her, her stern was lifted up
against a bank, and her head almost in the
water. All her quarter, and what was there,
were free and dry. The provisions I found in
good order, and, losing no time, ate while I
was doing other things. I also found some
b 3
30
rum, of which I look a little; and now I wanted
for nothing except a boat, which indeed was
all, to carry away what was needful for me.
Necessity occasions a quickness of thought.
We had several spare yards, a spare top mast
or two, and two or three large spars of wood.
With these I fell to work, and slung as many
of them over board as I could manage, tying
every one of them with a rope, that they might
not drive away. This done, .1 went down the
ship's side, and tied four of them fast together
at both ends, in form of a raft, and laying two
or three short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways, I found it would bear me, but not any
considerable weight. Upon which I went to
work again, cutting a spare top-mast into three
lengths, adding them to my ratt, with a great
deal of labour and pains. I then, first \ny ing
upon it all the planks and boards I could get,
uext lowered down three of the seamen's chests,
after I had filled them with bread, rice, three
Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goats flesh,'
and some European corn, what little the rats
had spared; and for liquors, I found several
cases of bottles, in which were some cordial
waters, and four or five gallons of arrack. By
this time, the tide beginning to flow, I per-
ceived my coat, waistcoat, and shirt swim
away, which I had left on shore; as for my
linen, breeches, and stockings, I swam with them
to the ship; but I soon found clothes enough,
though I took no more than 1 wanted for the
present, My eyes were chiefly on tools to
31
work.with, anil after along search, I found out
the carpenter's chest, which I got safe down
on my raft. I then looked for arms and ammu-
nition, and in the great cabin, found two good
fowling pieces, two pistols, several powder
horns tilled, a small bag of shot, and two rusty
swordR. I likewise found three barrels of pow-
der, two of which were good, but the third
had taken water, also two or three broken oars,
two saws, an axe, and a hammer. I then put
to sea, and in getting to shore had three ad.
vantages in my favour. I, A smooth calm sea.
2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore.
•3. The little wind there was, blowing towards
land. After I had sailed about a mile, 1 found
the raft driving a little distance from the place
where I first landed, and then I perceived an
opening of the land, with a strong current of
the tide running into it, upon which 1 kept the
middle of the stream. But great was my con-
cern, when on a sudden, the forepart of my
raft ran aground. But after some time the ris
ing of the water caused the raft to float again,
and coming up a little river, with lund on hoih
sides, I landed in a little cave, as near the
mouth as possible, the better, to discover a sail,
if any such providentially passed that way.
Not far off, I espied a hill of stupendous
height, surrounded with sma'ler hills about it,
and thither I was resolved to go and view the
country, that I might see what part was best
to fix my habitation in. Accordingly, arming
myself with a pistol, a fowling piece, powder,
.'32
and ball, I ascended the mountain. There I
perceived I was in an island, encompassed by
the sea, no distant lands to be seen, but scat-
tering rocks that lay to the west; it seemed
to be a barren place, and as I thought, only
inhabited by wild beasts. I perceived abund-
ance of fowls, but was ignorant of what kind,
or whether good for nourishment. I shot one
of them at my return, which occasioned a con-
fused screaming among the other birds, and I
found it, by its colour and beak, to be a kind of
hawk, but its flesh was perfect carrion.
. When I came to my raft, I brought my
effects on shore, which work spent that day en-
tirely; and fearing that some cruel beast
might devour me in the night time while I slept,
I made a kind of hut, or barricade, with the
chests and boards I had brought on shore.
That night, I slept very comfortably; and the
next morning my thoughts were employed to
make a further attempt to this ship, and bring
away what necessaries I could find, before ano-
ther storm should break her in pieces. Accord-
ingly, I got on board as before, and prepared a
second raft far more nice than the first; upon
which, I brought away the carpenter's stores,
two or three bags full of nails, a great jack-
screw, a dozen or two of hatchets; and a grind-
stone. I also took two or three iron crows,
two barrels of musket bullets, another fowling
piece, a small quantity of powder, and a large
bag full of small shot. Besides these, I took
all the men's clothes I could rind, a spare fore-

Ronis'saN Crusoe on his Raft.
34
top-sail; a hammock, and some bedding; and
thus completing my 3ocond cargo, I made all
the haste to shore I could, fearing some wild
beast might destroy what I had there already.
But I only found a little wild cat sitting on one
of the chests, who nota seeming to fear me, or
the gun that I presented at her, I threw her a
piece of biscuit, which she instantly eat and
departed.
'When I had got these effects on shore, I
went to work iii order to make me a little tent
with the sail and some poles, which I had cut
for that purpose, and having finished. it, what
things might be damaged by the weather, I
brought in, piling all the empty chests and casks
in a circle, the better to fortify it against any
sudden attempt of man or beast. After this, I
blocked up the doors with some boards, and an
empty chest turned the long way out. I then
charged my gun and pistol, and laying my bed
on the ground, slept as comfortably till the
next morning as though I had been in a chris-
tian country.
Now though I had enough to subsist me a
long time, yet despairing of a sudden deliverance,
and fearing that both ammunition and provision
might be spent before such a thing happened^
I saved as much as I could, and so long as the
ship remained in that condition, I daily brought
away one necessary or other: particularly the
rigging, sails, and cordage: some twine, a bar-
rel of wet powder, sonie sugar, a barrel of meal,
three casks of rum, and indeed what was most
welcome to me,a whole hogshead of bread.
35
The next time I went, I cut the cables in
pieces, carried off a hawser whole, with a great
deal of iron work, and made another raft; but
this being so unwieldy, by the too heavy bur-
den upon it, and 1 not being able so dexte-
rously to guide it as the former, both my cargo
and myself were overtumed. For my part, all
the damage I sustained was a wet skin: and at
low water, after much labour in diving, I got
up most of the cables, and some pieces of Iron.
, Fifteen days had I now been on the island,
and eleven times on board, bringing away all
that was possible. 'As I was going the twelltll
time, the wind began to rise; howe\er I ven-
tured at low water, and rummaging the cal.iu,
in a locker, I found Several razors, sei*sa s, and
some dozens of knives and forks, and in ano-
ther, thirty-six pounds in pieces of eight, silver
and gold. I wrapt the money up in a piece of
canvas, and began to think of making another
raft; but I soon perceived the wind beginning
to rise, a fresh gale blowing from the shore,
and the sky overcast with clouds and darknoss.
So thinking a raft to be in vain, 1 let myself
into the water ,witb what things I had about
Die; and it^was with great difficulty 1 got
ashore, when soon after it blew a fearful storm.
That night I slept very contentedly in my
little tent, surrounded with all my effects; but
when I looked out in the morning, no more shiji
was to be seen. This much surprised me lor
3(3
the present; yet, when I con?id«red that I had
lost no time,; abated no pain«, and liad got
cvety thing useful out( of her, I comforted my-
self in the best manner, and entirely submitted
to Divine Providence.
My next thoughts were, how I should de-
fend and secure myself from savages and wild
beasts, if any such were m the island.
.When I considered the ground where I was,
that it was marshy, and had no fresh water
near it, my resolutions were to search for a soil
healthy and well watered, w here 1 might not
only be sheltered from the sun's scorching heat,
hut be more conveniently situated, as well to be
secured from wild noon, and beasts of prey, as.
more easily to discover any distant sail, should
it ever so happen.
And indeed it was not long before I had my
desire. 1 found a little plain near a rising hill,
the front towards which, being as steep as a
house-side, nothing corald .descend on me from
the top. , ,
On the side of this rock was a little hollow
place, resembling the entrance or door of a
cave. Just before this place, on the circle of
the green, I resolved my tent should stand.
This plain did not much exceed a hundred yards
broad, and about twice as long, like a delight-
ful green before my door, with a pleasing,
though irregular descent every way to the low
grounds by the sea side, sheltered from the
excessive heat of the sun. After this I drew a
semicircle, twenty feet in diameter, driving
37
down two rows of strong stakes not sis inches
from each other. Then, with the pieces of
cables which I had cut on board, I regularly laid
them in a circle between the piles, up to their
tops, which were more than five feet out of the
earth, and then drove another row of piles look-
ing within side against them, between two and
three feet high, which made me conclude it a
little castle impregnable by men and beasts.
And for my better security, I would have no
door, but entered in and came out by the help
of a ladder, which 1 also made.
Here was my fence and fortress, into which
I carried all my riches, ammunition, and stores.
After which, working on the rock, what with
the dirt and stones I dug out, I not only raised
my ground two feet, but made a little cellar to
my mansion house; and this cost me many'days
labour and pains. One day, in particular, a
shower of rain falling, thunder ana lightning,
ensued, which put me in terror, lest my powder
should take fire, and not only hinder my neces-
sary subsistence, by preventing me from killing
my food, buteven blow up me and my habitation.
To prevent which, T fell to making boxes and
bags, in order to separate it, having by me near
150lbs. weight. And thus being established as
king of the island, every day I went out with my
gun, to see what I could kill that was fit to eat.
I soon perceived numbers of goats,but very shy;
yet having watched them narrowly, and seeing I
could better shoot thom off the rock»» than whsa
38
in the low grounds, I happened to shoot a she-
goat suckling a young kid; which, not think-
ing its dam slain, stood by her unconcerned;
and when I took the dead creature up, the
young one followed me even to the enclosure.
I lifted the kid over the pales, and would wil-
lingly have kept it alive, but finding it could
not be brought to eat, I was forced to slay it
also for my subsistence.
Thus, entered upon a life of solitude, I had
most melancholy apprehensions concerning my
deplorable condition; and many times, the tears
would plentifully run down my face, when I
considered how I was debarred from all com-
munication with human kind. Y'et while these
desponding thoughts would seem to make me
accuse Providence, other good thoughts would
interpose and reprove me after this manner:
"Well, supposing you are desolate, is it not
"better to be so than totall-y perish? Why
"should you complain, when not only your
"life was preserved, but the ship driven into
"your reach, in order to take what was ne-
"cessary out of her for a subsistence?" Bwt
to proceed: It was, by the account I kept, the
.30th of September, when I first landed on this
island. About twelve days after, fearing lest
1 should loose my reckoning of time, nay even
forget the sabbath days, for want of pen, ink,
and paper, I carved with a knife upon a large
post, in great letters, came on ihpre, Sept.
30, 1659, and set it up in the similitude of a
39
cross, on the sea shore where I landed. Every
day I cut a notch with my knife on the sides of
the square post, and that on the Sabbath was
as long again as the rest, and every first day
of the month, as long again as that long one.
In this manner, I kept my calendar, weekly,
monthly, or yearly reckoning of time. But
had I made a more strict search (as I did af-
terwar Is,) I need not have set up this mark
For among the parcels belonging to the gun-
ner, carpenter, and captain's mate, I found
those very things I wanted; particularly pens,
ink, and paper; also 1 found two or three
compasses, some mathematical instruments,
dials, perspective glasses, books of navigation,
three English bibles, and several other good
books, which I carefully put up. Here Lean-
not but call to mind our having a dog and two
cats on board, whom I made inhabitants with
me in my castle. Though one might think I
had all the necessaries that were desirable, yet
still I found several things wanting. My ink
was daily wasting: I wanted needles, pins, and
thread to mend or keep my clothes together:
and particularly a spade, pick-axe, or shovel,
to remove the earth. It was a year before I
finished my little bulwark; and having some
intervals of relaxation, after my daily wander-
ing abroad for provision, I drew up this plan
alternately, as creditor and debtor, to remind
me of the miseries and blessings of my life,
under so many various circumstances.
EVIL.
I am cast upon a
desolate island, having
no prospect of a wel-
come deliverance.
How miserable am I,
singled out from the
enjoyment or company
of all mankind.
Like a hermit ( ra-
ther should I say a
lonely anchoret) am
I forced from human
conversation.
My clothes, after
some time, will be
worn out, and then I
shall have none to
cover me.
When my ammuni-
tion is wasted, then
shall I remain without
any defence against
wild men and beasts.
I have no creature,
no soul to speak to;
none to beg assistance
GOOD;
But yet I am pre-
served while my com-
panions have perished
in the raging sea.
Yet set apart to
be spared from death.
And He, who has so
preserved me, can de-
liver me from this con-
dition.
However, I have
food to eat, and even
a happy prospect of
subsistence whilst life
endures.
At present I enjoy
what is absolutely
needful; and the cli-
mate is so hot, that
had I ever so many,
I should hardly wear
them.
Yet even thus, T see
no danger of any to
hurt me, as in Africa;
and what if I had been
cast away upon that
coast.
Is there not God to
converse with, and is
no( he able to deliver
41
from. Some comfort thee? already has he af.
would it be tq resound forded thee sustenance,
my woes where I am and put it in thy power
understood, and beg to provide for thyself,
assistance where J till he sends thee d.-
niight hope for relief, liverauce.
And now, easing my ipind a little by these
reflections, I began to render my life as easy
ps possible
I must here add to the description I have
'given of my habitation, that havjng raised a
turf wall against the optside of it, I thatched it
so close as might keep it from the iuclemency
of the weather; I also improved >t within, en-
larged my cave, and made a passage and a
door in the rock, which came out beyond the
pale of my fortification. I next proceeded to
raake a chair and table, and so began to study
such mechanical arts as seemed to me, practir
cable. When I wanted a plank or a hoard, I
hewed down a tree with my hatchet, making it
sis thin with my axe as possible, and then
smooth enough with an adze, to answer my de-
signs; yet though I could make no more this
way tban one hoard out of a tree, in length of
time I got boards enough to shelter all my
stores, every thing being regujarly placed, and
rny guns securely hanging against the side of a
rock. This made it a very pleasant sight to
me, being the result of vast labour and great
diligence; which leaving for a while, and me
po the enjoyment of jt, I shall give the reader aa
42
account of some narts of my journal from tne
day of my landing, till the settling of my ha-
bitation, as heretofore shown.
JOURNAL.
SEPTEMBER. 30th, 1659, I, Robinson
Crusoe, having suffered shipwreck, was driven
on this desolate island, which I named the
Desolate Island of Despair, the rest of my
companions being swallowed up in the tem-
pestuous ocean. That day I spent in conside-
ration of my unhappy circumstances, having
no psospect but of death, either to be starved
with hunger, or devoured by wild boasts or
merciless savages.
Oct. 1. That morning, with great comfort, I
beheld the ship driven ashore. Some hopes I
had, that when the storm was abated, I might
be able to get some food and necessaries out of
her; which I conceived were not damaged,
because the ship remained upright. At. this
time, I lamented the loss of my companions,
and our misfortune in leaving the vessel. When
I perceived the ship, as it were, to lie dry, I
waded through the sands, as far as I could find
depth, then swam aboard, the. weather being
very rainy, and with scarcely any wind.
Oct. .5. My raft, and all the goods thereon
were overset; yet I recovered most again at
low water.
To the 14lh of this month, my time was em-
ployed in making voyages every tide, gettin
43
what 1 could out of the ship. The weather
very wet and uncertain.
Oct. 15. It blew hard, and rained night and
'day, when the ship went to pieces, so that no-
thing was seen of her but the wreck at low.
water. This day I secured my goods from the
inclemency of the weather. .'
Oct. 10, I wandered to.see where I could
find a place convenient for my abode: I fixed
upon a rock in the evening, marked out a half
moon, intending to erect a wall fortified with,
piles, lined within with pieces of cables, and
covered with turf.
Nov. 3. I shot two wild-fowl, resembling
ducks, which were goo.d to eat, and in the af-
ternoon began to make me a table.
Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the
morning, I allowed myself two or three hours
to walk out with my gun; i then worked till
near eleven o'clock; and afterwards refreshed
myself with what I had to eat From twelve
to two, I would lie down to sleep. Extreme
sultry weather- In the evening go to work
again.
Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and dog,
shot a wild cat with a soft skin, but her flesh
was good for nothing. The skins of those
killed I preserved. In my return I perceived
many wild birds, and was terrified by some
seals which made off to sea.
Nov. 6. Completed my table.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked to the.
12th, but omitted the 11th, which according
, to my calculation, I supposed to be Sunday.
44
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was
obliged to desist for want of a pick-axe, Shovel
and wheel-barrow. Iron crows I used to sup-
ply the place of the first, but with all my art
i could not make a wheel-barrow.
Nov. J 9. It was a great happiness to me to
find a tree resembling what tiie Brazilians call
an Iron tree. I had like to spoil my axe with
cutting it, it being very hard, and exceedingly.
heavy; yet with much labour and industry I
made a sort of spade out of it.
Noy. 23. These tools being made, I daily.
carried on my business; eighteen days I allow-
ed for enlarging my cave, that it might serve
.me, not only for a warehouse, but kitchen, par-
lour, and cellar. I commonly lay in the tent?
unless the weather was so rainy that I could
not lie dry. So wet would it be at certain sea-
sons, that I was obliged to cover all within
the pale, with long poles, in the form of rafters,
leaning against the rock, and load them with
flags and large leaves of tree§ resembling a
thatch.
Dec. 10. No sooner did I think my habita-
tion finished, but suddenly a great deal of the
top broke in, so that it was a mercy I was not
buried in the ruins. This occasioned a great
deal of pains and trouble to me, before 1 could
make it firm and durable.
Dec. \7. I nailed up some shelves, and drove
nails and staples in the wall and posts, to hang
every thing out of the way.
Dec. 20. I got every thing into its plaoo,
then made a sort of dresser, and another table.
46
Dec. 27. I chanced to light upon some goats,
shot one, wounded another; 1 led it home in a
string, bound up its leg, and cured it in a little
time; at length, it became so tame and familiar
as to feed before the door, and follow me where
I pleased. This put me in mind to bring up
tame creatures, in order to supply me with lood
after my ammunition was spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30. The weather being exces-.
sjvely hot, with little air, obliged me for the
most part, to keep within doors.
Jan, 3. to 14. My employment this time
was to finish the wall before described, and
search the island. I discovered a k^nd of pii
geous, like our house pigeons, in a nest among
the rocks. J brought them home, pursed thenn
till they could fly, and then they left me. Af.
ter this, I shot some, which proved excellent
food. Some time I spent vainly contriving to,
make a cask, I may well say it was ip vain,
because J could neither joint the staves, nor
fix the heads, so as to make it tight; so leav.
jng that, I took some goat's tallow I had by
pie, and a little oakum for the wick, and pro-
vided myself with a lamp, whjch served instead,
of candles.
But now a very straqge event happened. For
being in the height of my search, what should,
come into my hand, but a bag which was used
to hold corn (as I supposed) for the fow'.s; so,
immediately resolving to put gunpowder into it,
I shook all the husks and dirt upon one side of
a rock, little expecting what the eonsequenco
c a
46
would be. The rain had fallen plentifully a
few days before; and about a month after, to
my great amazement, something began to look
out very green and flourishing; and when I
came to view it more nicely, every day as it
grew, I found about ten or twelve ears of green
barley of the very same shape and make as that
in England.
I can scarcely express the agitation of my
mind at this sight. Hitherto I had been used,
like too many in the world, to look with in-
difference upon the marks of God's goodness,
which are every where visible. Indeed so ig-
norant was I. that I had even thought health,
and food, and clothing to be the mere, result
of our own labour and care and foresight,
without ever reflecting, that the Almighty is
the bestowcr of every good and perfect gift,
and that it is his blessing alone upon our
efforts which makes them to prosper. The ap-
pearance of the bailey flourishing so unexpect-
edly in a barren soil, and my ignorance of the
manner in which it came there, led me into a
singular opinion. 1 concluded that miracles
were not ceased, and that God had appointed
the barley to grow there without any seed,
purely for my sustenance in this miserable and
desolate island. And indeed such great effect
had this upon me, that it often made me melt
into tears through a grateful sense of God's
mercies: and the greater still was my thankful-
ness, when I perceived about this little field of
barley, some rice stalks, also wonderfully
flourishing.
47
While thus pleased in mind, I concluded
there must be some more corn in the island,
and therefore made a diligent search narrowly
among the rocks; but not being able to find
any, on a sudden it came into my mind, how I
, had shaken the husks of corn out of the bag,
and then so blind was my understanding, that
my admiration ceased, and with it my grati-
tude to the Divine Being, as thinking it was
lut natural, and not to be conceived a mira-
cle: though even the manner of its preserva-
tion might have made me own it as a wonder-
ful event of God's kind providence.
It was about the latter end of June when the
ears of this corn ripened, which I laid up very
carefully, together with 20 or 30 stalks of rice,
expecting one day I should reap the fruit of
my labpur: yet four years were expired before
I could allow myself to eat any barley bread;
and much longer time,, before I had any rice.
After this, with indefatigable pains and industry
for three or four months, at last I finished my
house, having no way to go into it, but by a
ladder against the wall.
April 16. I finished rny ladder, and ascend-
ed it; afterwards pulled it up, then let it dowa
on the other side, and descended into my new
habitation, where I had space enough, and was
so fortified, that nothing could attack me with-
out scaling the walls.
But what does all human art and industry
avail, if the blessing of God does not crown
our labours? Or who can stand before th«
A Unighty, when he stretchcth forth his arm J
43
For, one time, when I was at the entrance qf
my cave, there happened such a dreadful earth-
quake, that not only the roof of the cave came
tumbling about my ears, but the posts seemed to
crack terribly at the same time. This put me
in a great amazement; and running to the lad-
der and getting over the wall, I then plainly
knew it was an earthquake, the place I stood on
sustaining three terrible shocks in less than three
minutes. But judge of my terror when I saw
the top of a great rock roil'into the sea: I then
expected the island would be swallowed up
every moment: and what made the scene still
more dreadful, was to see the sea thrown into
the most violent agitations and disorders by this
tremendous convulsion of nature.
For my part, I expected every moment to
be swallowed up. At the moving' of the earth,
I was, as it were, sea-sick; and very much
afraid lest the rock, under which was my fence
and habitation, should overwhelm me and it in,
a lasting tomb.
It was only the dajr after, when a horrible
^empest arose, at the same time attended, with a
hurricane of wind. Three hours did this storm
continue, and in so violent a manner as to tear;
the very trees up by the. roots, which was suc-
ceeded 'hy abundance of rain. When the tem-
pest was over, I went to my tent; but the rain
doming on in a furious manner, I was obliged
to take shelter in the cave, where I was forced
to cut a channel through my fortification, to let
^he water out. It continued raining all that
49
night, and some time the next day. T'nese ac-
cidents made me resolve, as soou as the wea-
ther cleared up, to build me a little hut in some
open place, walled round to defend me from
wild creatures and savages; not douhting, but,
at the next earthquake, the mountain would
fall on my habitation and me, and swallow up
all in its bowels; but to resume the thread of
my narration which this mention of the storm
has interrupted.
April 16—1*0. These days 1 spent, in con.
triving how and in what manner I should lix
my place of abode. All this while, I was un-
der the most dreadful apprehensions. When
1 looked round my habitation, every thing I
found in its proper place. I had several de-
bates whether I' should move or not; but at
length resolved to stay where I v< as. till I found
out a convenient place where 1 might pitch my
tent.'
A.pril 22. When I began to put my resolu-
tions in practice, I was stopped for want of
tools and instruments to work with. Most of
my axes and hatchets were unless, occasioned
by cutting the hard timber that grew on the
island. It took me up a full week to make my
grindstone of use to me; but at last I found
out a way to turn it about vvith my foot, by
help of a wheel and a string.
April 30. My bread falling short, I allowed
myself but one biscuit a day.
May ]. As I walked along the sea shore, I
found a barrel of gun powder, and several
pieces of the wreck which the $ea had flun^
50
«p. Having secured these, I made to the ship,
whose stern was torn off, and washed a great
distance ashore; but the rest lay in tlie sands,
This, I suppose, was occasioned by the earth-
quake. ] now resolved to keep my old place
of abode: and also to get to the ship that day,
but found it impossible.
May 3. This day I went on board the wreck,
which still remained upon its bed of rock,
though the waves had carried away all its upper
woiks and left nothing standing but the part
between decks, and with my saw sawed off one
of the beams, which kept her quarter deck.—
1 then cleared the sand till flood.
May 4. I caught some fish, but they were
not wholesome. The same day, T also caught
a young dolphin.
M ay 5. This day also I repaired to the wreck,
and sawed another piece of timber; and when
the flood came, I made a float of three great
planks, which were driven ashore by the tide.
May 6—9. These days, I brought off th
iron bolts, opened the deck with the iron
crow, and carried two planks to land, having
made a way into the very middle of the wreck.
May 10—14. All this time I spent in bring-
ing off great quantities of iron and timber.
May 15. Took with me two hatchets on
purpose to cut off some lead from the roll, but
all in vain, for it lay too low under water.
May 24. To this day, I worked on the
wreck, and with great difficulty loosened some
things so much with the crow, that at the first
blowing tide, several casks floated out, and se-
51
veml of the seamen's cliesls; yet that day no-
thing came to land but pieces of timber, and a
hogshead which had some pork in it. I conti-
nued working to the loth of June, (except
necessary times for food and rest) and had I
known how to build a boat, I had timber and
planks enough; I had also nearly 100 weight
of sheet lead.
June 16. As I was wandering towards the
sea-side, I found a large tortoise or turtle, being
the first 1 had seen on the island, though,, as I
afterwards found, there were many on the other
side of it.
June 17. This day I spent in cooking it, found
in her three score eggs, and her fiVsh the most
savoury and pleasant 1 ever tasted in my life.
June 18. I staid within this day, there being
a continual rain; and it was somewhat more
chilly and cold than usual.
June 19. Exceedingly ill, taken with a trem-
bling and shivering.
June 20. Awake all night, my head racked
with pain and feverish-
June 21. Sick unto death, and terrified with
dismal apprehensions of my condition. Prayed
to God more frequently, but very confusedly.
June 22. Something better, but still uneasy
in my mind.
June 23. Again relapsed much as before.
June 24. Mended a second time.
June 25. A violent ague for seven hours, cold
and hot fits, succeeded by faint sweats.
June 26. Better, but very weak; yet I
scrambled out, shot a she goat, brought it home,
46
and broiled some of it; I would willingly have
stewed it, and made some broth, but had no
pot,
June 27. All this day I was afflicted with
an ague: thirsty, yet could hot help myself to
water: prayed to God in these words: Lord
in pity, look upon me: Lord have mercy upon
me! have mercy upon me! After thi3 I fell
asleep, which, when 1 awakened, I found had
much refreshed me.
I rose up in a pensive manner, being so
thoughtlul that I could not go to sleep; and
fearing the dreadful return of my distemper, it
caused me to remember, that the Brazilians
use tobacco for almost all diseases, 1 then
went to my chest, in order to find some, where
it was my happiness to find a cure, both for
soul and body; for there I found one of the
Bibles, which till this time, 1 had neither lei.•
sure nor inclination to look into; I took both
the tobacco and that out of my chest, and laid,
them on the table. Several experiments did
1 try with the tobacco: First, I took a piece of
Jeaf, and chewed it; but it being very green and
strong, almost stupified me; next, I steeped it
in some rum an hour or two, resolving when
I Went to bed to take a dose of it: and in the
third place, ( burnt some over a pan of fire,
holding my nose over it so long as I could
endure it without suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my
head was giddy and disturbed by the tobacco,
I took up the Bible to read. No sooner did I
open it, but there tippeared to vac these words,
S3
Call on me in (he day of trouble, and I will
deliver thee, and thou shall glorify me.
At first, tins sentence made a very deep im-
pression on my heart; but it sson wore off again,
when I considered that the word deliver was
foreign to me. And as the children of Israel
said, when they were promised flesh to eat,
Can fioti spread a table in the wilder nets? In
the like manner I began to say, Can God him-
self deliver rue from this desolate island? How-
ever, the words would still return to my mind,
and afterwards made a greater impression upon
me. As it now was very late, and the tobaccq
had dozed my head, 1 was inclined to sleep;
but before I would lie down, I fell on my
knees, end implored trie promise (hat God had
made to me in the holy Scriptures, that if I
called on him in the day of trouble, he would
deliver me. With much difficulty, I afterwards
drank the rum, wherein I had steeped the tor
bacco, nyhich flying into my head, threw me
into such a profound sleep, that it was three
o'clock the next day before J awoke; or, rather,
1 believe, J slept two days, having certainly lost
a day in my account, as I afterwards disco*
vered, and I could never tell any other way.—
When \ got up, my spitits were lively and
cjieerful: my stomach much better, being very
lmngry; and, in short, nn fit returned the next
day, which was (he 29th, but I found myself
much altered for the better.
July 3. The fitquito left me, but I was very
weak- In this condition, 1 often thought of
these words, / wi(( deliver thee: and while at,
5i

times I would think of the impossibility of it,
other thoughts would reprehend me, for disre-
garding the deliverances I had received, even
from the most forlorn and distressed condition.
I asked myself, what regard have I had to God
for his abundant mercies? Have 1 done my
part? He has delivered me, but I have not
glorified him; as if I had said, I had not
owned and been thankful for those as deli-
verances, and how could 1 expect greater? So
much did this sensibly touch my heart, that I
gave God thanks for my recovery from sickness
in the most humble posture.
July 4. This morning, I began seriously to
ponder on what is written in t!ie New Testa-
ment, resolving to read a chapter every morn-
ing and night, as long as my thoughts would
engage me. As soon as I set about this work
seriously, I found my heart deeply affected
with the impiety of my past life. After this
1 begged of God to assist me with his holy
Spirit in retuming to my duty. One day in pe-
rusing the Scripture, I cumo to these words.
Him hath God exalted with his right hand to
be a Prince and a Saviour for to give repen-
tance and forgiveness of sins. Immediately
I laid down the book, and with uplifted hands
to Heaven, loudly cried, O blessed Jesus, th iu
son if David! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and
Saviour, give me repentance: And, now in-
deed, I prayed with a true sense of my condi-
tion, and a more certain hope, founded on the
word of God. Now. I had a different sense of
these words, Call on me, and 1 will deliver thee,
.5,5
thai is, from the dreadful load of guilt, which
oppressed my sinful soul, and not from a soli-
tary life: in a word, I came t« this conclusion,
that a deliverance from sin was a much greater
blessing than a deliverance from affliction.
To the 14th July, I walked about with my
gun, little and little at a time, having been re-
iluced to the greatest extremity of weakness.
The applications and experiments I used were
perfectly new: neither could I recommend
them to any one's practice. For though it car-
ried off the tit, it very much weakened me ; and
1 had frequently convulsions in my nerves and
limbs for some time. From hence I learned,
that going abroad in rainy weather, especially
when it was attended with storms and hurri-
canes of wind, was most pernicious to health.
1 had now LceD above nine months in the
island; and as I had never seen any of the hu-
man kind, I therefore accounted myself as sole
monarch: and as I grew better, having secured
my habitation to my mind, I resolved to make
a tour round my kingdom, in order to make
new discoveries.
The 15th July, I began my journey; I first
went to the creek where I had brought my
rafts on. shore, and travelling farther, found
the tide went no higher than two miles up,
where there was a little brook of running wa-
ter, on the bank of which were many pleasant
savannahs or meadows, smooth, plain and co-
vered with gmss. On the rising parts, where I
supposed the water did not reach, I perceived a
great deal of tobacco growing to a very strong
stalk. ;Scyeia'l other plants I likewise farmd,
the virtues of which I did not understand. I
«f arched a long time for the Cassava root, which
1 knew the Indians in that climate made their
bread of; hut all in vain. Tlkere were seveml
plants of aloes, though at that time I knew not
what they were: likewise I saw several sngai-
.canes, but imperfect for want of cultivation.
W ith these few discoveries, I came back that
night, and slept contentedly in my little castle.
'flic next day, being the ltith, going the
same way, but farther than the day before, I
found the country f.•ore adorned with wodtls
end trees. Here I perceived different fruits in
great abundance. Melons in plenty lay on the
ground, and clusters of grhpes, ripe and very.
rich spread over the trees. You may imagine
I was glad pf this discovery, yet ate very spar-
ingly, lest I should.throw myself into a flux or
fever. The grapes, I found of excellent use;
ior when I dried them in the sun, «biph pre-
served them as dried raisins are kept, they
proved very v.holesome and nourishing, and
served me in those seasons when no grapes were
to be had,
The night drawing on apace, I ascended a
tree, and slept very comfortably, though it was
the first time I hod slept nut of my habitation.
And when the morning came. I proceeded with
great pleasure on my way, travelling about four
wiles, as 1 imagined, by the length of the val-
ley. At the end of this valley, I came to an
pperung, where the country seemed to descend
to the west;: fh'ere I found a spring of ffesft
water, proceeding out of the side of the hill,
with 'tis crystal streams running directly east.—
And indeed here my senses were charmed with
the most beautiful landscane nature could af-
ford; for the countty appeared so flourishing,
green and delightful, that to: me it seemed like
a planted garden. I then descended on the
side of that delicious vale, when I found abun-
dance of cocoa, orange, lemon, and citron trees,
but very wild and barren at that time. As for
the limes, they were delightful and wholesome*
Gtk juice of which I afterwards used to mix in
water, which made it very cool and refreshing.
And now I was resolved to carry home and lay
up a store of grapes, limes and lemons, against
the approaching wet season. So laying them
up in separate parcels, and then taking a few of
each with me, I returned to my little' Castle,
after having spent three days in this journey.
Before T got heme, the grapes were so bruised
that they were utterly spoiled: the limes in-
deed were good, but of those I could bring
only a few.
July 19. Having prepared two bags, t return'•
«d thither again, but to my great surprise, found
all the grapes spread about, trodden to pieces,
and abundance eaten, which made me conclude
there were wild beasts thereabouts. To pre-
vent this happening again, I gathered a large
quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon
the out branches of the tree, both to keep them
33
unhnrt, and that they might cure and dry in
the sun: and having well loaded myself with
limes and lemons, I returned once more to my
old place ot residence.
And now, reflecting on the fruitfulness of
this valley, the pleasantness of its situation, its
security from storms, and the delightfulness of
the adjacent woods, I concluded I was settled
in the worst part of the country, and therefore
was thinking to remove my habitation.
But when I considered again, that though it
was pleasant, it was off from the sea-side, where
there was a possibility, some time or otheq^i
ship might either be driven or sail by: and that
to inclose myself among bills and woods must
certainly put an end to my hopes of deliverance;
I resolved to let my castle remain where Pro-
vidence had first placed it. Yet, so delighted
was 1 with this place, that I made me a little
kind of bower, surrounding it, with a double
hedge as high as I could reach, well staked and
filled with bulrushes: and having spent a great
part of the month of July, I think it was the
1st of August, before 1 began to enjoy my
labour.
Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I
took them fiom the trees, and they proved ex-
cellent good raisins of the sun; the most of
v which 1 carried to my eave; and happy for me
1 did so, by which 1 saved the best part of my
winter food.
Aug. 14. This day it began to rain; and
though I had made me a tent like the other,
vet having no shelter of a hill to keep me from
59
storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat in, I
was obliged to return to my old castle; tbo
rain continued more or less every day, till the
middle of October, and sometimes so violently
that 1 could not stir out of my cave for several
days. This season I fourd my family to in-
crease; for one of my cats that had run away
,from me, and which 1 thought had been aead,
returned about August, with three kittens at
her heels, like herself; from these cats pro-
ceeded such numbers, that 1 was forced to kill
and destroy them as I would do wild beasts or
vermin.
To the 26th of this month, I could not stir
out, it rained incessantly: when beginning to
want food, I was compelled to venture twice,
the first of which times, 1 shot a goat, and af-
terwards found a very large tortoise. The
manner of regulating my food was thus: tt
bunch of raisins served me for my breakfast:
a piece of goat's fleshx or turtle boiled for my
dinner, and two or three turtle eggs for my sup.
per. While the rain lasted, 1 daily worked two
or three hours at enlarging my cave, and by
degrees worked it on towards one side of the
hill, and made a door way out, which came be-
yond my fence or wall, and so I came in and
out this way. But after I had done this, I was
troubled to see myself thus exposed; though I
could not perceive anything to fear, a goat being
the biggest creature I had seen upon this
Island.
60
Sept. 30. Casting up the notches on my*
post, they amounted to 36'5, I concluded this
to be the anniversary of my landing; and there-
fore humbly prostrating myself on the ground;
confessing my sins, acknowledging God's righ-
teous judgment upon me, and praying to him
to have mercy upon me, through Jesus Christ,
I fasted for twelve hours till the going down of
the sun; and then eating a biscuit and a bunch
of grapes^ laid me on a bed* and with great
comfort took my night's repose. Till this time*
though I had always put a larger notch than
ordinary for each sabbath day, to my shame, [
bonfess it, I had seldom observed it in any rither
way. My ink failing soon after, I omitted in
my daily memorandum, things of an indifferent
nature, and contented myself to Write down
only the most remarkable events of my life.—
The rainy and dry seasons appeared now re-
gular to mei and experience taught me how to
provide for them: yet in one thing I am going
to relate', my experience very much failed me.
You may call to mind, what I have mentioued
of some barley and rice which I had saved;
about thirty stalks 6f the former, and twenty
of the latter; and, at that time, the sun being
in its southern position, going from me, toge-
ther with the rains, made me conclude it a very
proper season to sow it Accordingly I dug
up a piece of ground, with my wooden spade,
Smd dividing it into two parte, sowed about two
thirds of my seeds, preserving by me a handful'
of eadj. And happy it was I did so; for no
fains falling, it was choked up, anil netfer ecp*
peared above the earth till the wet season caiu«
again, and then part of it grew, as if it had
been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial;
and seeking for a moister piece of ground near
my bower, 1 there sowed the rest of my seed
in February, which, by having the rainy,
months of March and April to water it, yielded
a noble crop, and sprung up very pleasantly. I
had still saved part of the seed, not daring to
venture all; and by the time I found out tho
proper seasons to sow it in, and that I might
expect every year two seed times and two har-
vests, my stock amounted to above half a peck
of each sort of grain.
No sooner were the rains over, but the stakes
which I had cut from the trees, shot out like
willows, the first year after lopping their heads.
I was ignorant of the tree 1 cut them from;
but they grew so regularly beautiful, that they
made a most lively appearance, and so flou-
rished in throe years time, that 1 resolved to
cut more of them; and these soon growing
made a glorious fence, as afterwards 1 shall
observe,
And now I perceived that the seasons of the
year might generally be divided, not into sum-
mer and winter, as in Europe, but into wet and
dry seasons, as in this manner:—
From (-February 15? Rainy,sUn coming nenr
To l April IS, 5' the Equina.':, 2 months.
i)
G2
From C April 15, } Dry, sun getting north
To ~i August 15, 5 /Wrat Me 4 montlis
From f August 15, ? fPe/, Me swi iewg. Me«
To \ October 15, 5 come back, 2 months.
From ( October 15, > £*/y, «wh running south
To £ February 15$ of the line, 4 montlis.
The wet seasons would continue longer or
shorter, as the wind continued or ceased to blow.
Rut having found the ill consequences of being
abroad in the rain, 1 took care before hand to
furnish myself with provisions: and during tho
wet mouths, sat within doors as much as pos-
sible. At this time, 1 contrived to make many
handy things that I wanted, though it cost me
much labour and pains, before I could accom-
plish them. The first 1 tried was to make a
basket, but all the twigs I could get, proved so
brittle, that [ could not then perform it. It now
proved of great use to me, that when a boy I
took great delight in standing at a basket-ma-
ker's, in the same town where my father lived,
to view them at work: like other boys, being
curious to see the manner of their working these
things, and very officious to assist, 1 perfectly
learned the method of it, and wanted nothing
but the tools. And it coming into my mind,
that the twigs of that tree of which I made my
stakes, might be as tough as a sallow willow, or
Osiers growing in England, 1 resolved to mako
an experiment, and went the next day to my
country seat, and found some fit for my turn;
and after cutting down a quantity with my
63
hatchet, I dried them in my pale, and, when
fit to work with, carried them to my cave, where
I employed myself in making several sorts of
baskets, insomuch that 1 could put in what-
soever I pleased. It is true they were not cle-
verly made, yet they served my turn on all oc-
casions.
But still I wanted two necessary things. I
had no cask to hold my liquor, except two, al-
most full of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary
size, and some square case bottles; neither had
1 a pot to boil any thing in, only a large kettle
unfit to make broth, or stew a bit of meat: 1
wanted likewise at the beginning of this dry
season a tobacco-pipe; but for this 1 afterwards
found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planting my se-
cond row of stakes. But remembering that
when I travelled up to the brook I had a mind
to see the whole island, I now resumed my in-
tention, and taking my dog, gun, hatchet, two
biscuit cakes, a great bunch of raisins, with a
larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
I began my journey. Having passed the vale
where my bower stood, J came within view of
the sea lying to the west; when, it being a
clear day, 1 fairly descried land, extending from
the W. to the .S. W. about 10 or 15 leagues,
as I concluded: but could not say whether it
was an island or a continent. Neither could I
tell what this place might be: only thought it
was part of America, and Where I might have
been in a miserable condition had I landed.—
n 2
u
Again, I considered, that if this was .the Sjia^
nish coast, certainly, one time or the other, f
should see some ships pass by, and if it was
not, then it must be the savage coast between
the Spanish country and Brazil, which abounds
with cannibals or man-eaters.
As I proceeded forward, 1 found this side of
the island much more pleasant than mine; the
fields fragrant, adorned with sweet flowers and
verdant grass, together with several very fine
,woods. There were parrots in plenty, which
made me long for one to be my companion;
(tut it was with great difficulty I could knock
one down with my stick; and I kept him at
bome some years, before i could get him to call
me by my name.
In the low grounds, I found various sorts of
hares and foxes, as I took them to be, but much
different from those in England. Several of
these I killed, but never ate them; neither in-
deed had 1 any occasion; for abounding with
goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes, I could defy
any market to furnish me a better table. Jn
this journey, 1 did not travel above two miles
v a day, because i took several turns and wind-
ings, to see what discoveries 1 could make, re-
turning weary enough to the place where I de-
signed to rest all njgh', winch was either in a
a tree, or to a place which 1 surrounded with
stakes, that no wild creature might suddenly
surprize me. When I came to the sea.shore, I
w as amazed to see the splendor of it. Its strand
Vvas covered with shells of the inost beautiful
65
fish, and constantly abounding with innuniera.
ble turtles, and fowls of many kinds, which I
was ignorant of, except those called penguins.
was sparing of my ammunition, rather ehoos'
ing to kill a she.goat, which 1 did with much
difficulty, on account of the flatness of the
country.
Now, though this journey produced the most
pleasing satisfaction, yet my habitation was so
much to my liking, that I did not repine at my
being seated on the worst part of the island.
I continued my journey, travelling about 12. *
miles further towards the east, where I set a
great pile on the shore for a mark, concluding
that my next journey should bring me to the
other side of the island, east from my castle,
and so round till I came to my post again.—
As I had a constant view of the conntry, I
thought I could not miss my way , but scarcely
had 1 travelled three* miles, when 1 descended
into a very large valley, so surrounded with
hills covered with wood, that having no guide
but the sun, and to add to my misfortune, the
weather proving very hazy, 1 was obliged to
return to my post by the sea side, and so back-
wards the same way I came, In this journey,
my dog surprised a kid, and would have killed
ft, had I not prevented him. As I had often
been thinking of getting a kid or.two, and so
raising a breed of tame goats to supply me,
after my ammunition was spent, I took this
opportunity of beginning; and having made

00
a coliar for tills littte creature, with a string
made of rope yarn, I brought it to my bower,
and there inclosed and left him: and having
spent a month in this journey, at length I re-
turned to my old habitation.
Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction, when
I returned to my little castle, and reposed my-
self in my hammock. After my journey I
rested myself a week, which time I employed
in making a cage for my pretty poll. I now
began to recollect the poor kid \ had left in.
the bower, and immediately went to fetch it
home. When I came there, I found the young
creature almost starved; I gave it some food,
and tied it as before; but there was no occa-
sion, for it followed me like a dog; and as I
constantly fed it, it became so loving, gentle,
fmd fond, that it commenced one of my domes-
tics, and vvould never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox
being now come, I kept tlie 30th of Septem-
ber, in the most solemn manner, as, usual, it
being the second year of my abode in the island.
I spent the whole day in acknowledging God's
mercies, in giving thanks for making this soli-
tary life sis agreeahle, and less sinful, than that
of human society; and for the communication
of his grace to my soul, in supporting, comfort-
ing, and encouraging me to depend upon his
Providence, and hope for his eternal presence in
the world to come.
Indeed, I often did consider how much more
happy 1 was, in this state of life, than in that
76
manner of Hying I formerly used; sometime",
however when hunting, or viewing the country,
the anguish of my soul would break out upon
me, and my very heart would sink within me,
to think of the woods, the mountains, the de-
serts I was in; and how I was a prisoner,
locked up within the eternal bars and bolts of
the ocean, in an uninhabited country, without
a hope of escape. In this condition I would
often wring my hands, and weep like a chjld;
and even sometimes in the middle of my work,
this fit of melancholy would often take me;
and then I would sit down and sigh, looking
on the ground for an hour or two together till
such time as my grief got vent in a flood o{
tears.
One morning, as I was fully employed in
this manner, I opened my Bible, and began to
read that chapter in which' God promises to
Joshua, / will not fail thee nor forsake thee!
Surely, if Qod does not forsake mo, what
matters it, since he ^can make me more happy
in this state of life, than if 1 enjoyed the great-
est splendour in the world? And whenever I
opened or shut the Bible, I blest kind Provi-
dence, that directed my good friend in England
to send it among my goods without my order,
and for assisting me to save it from the power
of the raging ocean.
And now beginning my third year, my se-'
veral daily employments were these: First,
My duty to Heaven, and diligently reading the
holy Scriptures, which I did twice or thrice
fi8
every day: Secondly, Seeking provisions with
my gun, which commonly took me up, when
it did not rain, three hours every morning;
Ihirdly, The ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking what I had killed, or catched for my
supply, which took me up a great part of the
day; for in the middle of the day, the sun
heing at its height, it was so hot, that I could
not stir out: so that I had but four hours in
the evening to work in: and then from the want
of tools, of assistance, and skill, spent a great
deal of time to little purpose: I was no less
than two and forty days, making a board fit
for a long shelf, which two sawyers with their
tools and saw-pit, would have cut out of the
same tree in half a day. It was of a large tree,
as my board was to be broad. I was three
days in cutting it down, and two more in lop-
ping off the boughs, and reducing it to a piece
of timber. Thus I hacked and hewed off each
eide, till it became light to move; then 1 turned
it, made one side of it smooth and flat as a
board from end to end, then turned it down-
wards, cutting the other side, till I brought the
plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth
on both sides. Any body may judge my great
labour and fatigue in such a piece of work:
but this I went through with patience, as also
many other things, that my circumstances made
necessary for me to do.
The harvest months, November and Decem-
ber, were now at hand, in which I had the
pleasing prospect of a very good crop. But
«:>
feere 1 met with a new misfortune, for the goats
and hares, having tasted of the sweetness of
Uie blade, kept it so short, that it had no
strength to shoot up into a stalk. To prevent
this, I enclosed it with a hedge, and by day
shot some of its devourers; and my dog, which
I had tied to the field gate, keeping barking
all night, so frightened these creatures, that 1
got .entirely rid of them.
But, no sooner did I get rid of these, than
other enemies appeared, to wit whole flocks of
several sorts of birds, who only waited till my
back was turned to ruin mc. So much did
this provoke me, that I let fly. and killed three
of the malefactors; and afterwards served them
as they do notorious thieves in England and
Ireland, hung them up in chains as a terror
to others. And indeed, so good an effect had
this, that they not only forsook the corn, but
all that part of the island, so long as these
criminals hung there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter
end of December, which was my second har-
vest, I reaped it with a scythe made of one of my
broad swords. 1 had no fatigue in cutting down
my first crop, it was so slender,. The cars 1
carried home in a basket, rubbing the grain out
with my hands, instead of threshing it; and
when my harvest was over, found my half.peck
of seed had produced nearly two bushels of
rice, and two bushels and a half of barley. —
And now I plainly foresaw, that by God's good-
ness, I should be furnished with bread; but
JO
yet I was concerned because I knew not how.
to grind or make meal of my corn, neither
knew I how to bake it into bread. I would
not, however, taste any of the crop, but re-
solved to preserve it against next season, and in
the mean white, use my best endeavours to
provide myself with other food.
But where were my labours'to end? the
want of a plough to turn up the earth, or shovel
to dig it, I conquered by making me a wooden
spade. The want of a harrow I supplied by
dragging over the corn a great bough of a tree,
When it was growing, I was forced to fence it;
when ripe, to mow it, carry it home, thresh it,
part it from the chaff, and save it. And, after
ell, I wanted a mill to grind it, a sieve to dress
it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an
oven to bake it. This set my brains to work,
to find some expedient for every one of these
necessaries, against the next harvest.
And now having more seed, my first care was
to prepare me more land. I pitched upon two
large flat pieces of ground, near my castle, for
that purpose, in which I sowed my seed, and
fenced it with a good hedge. This took me up
three months; by which time the wet season
coming on, and the rain keeping me within
doors, I found several occasions to employ my-
self; and while at work, used to divert myself
with talking to my parrot, teaching him to
know and speak his own name Poll: the first
welcome word I had ever heard spoken in the
Jl
island. I had been a long time contriving how
to make earthen vessels, which I wanted ex-
tremely; and when I considered the heat of the
climate, I did not doubt but, if I could find
any such clay, 1 might botch up a pot, strong
enough, when dried in the sun, to bear handling,
and to hold any thing that was dry, such as
corn, meal, and other things.
'To be short, the clay, I found; but it would
occasion the most serious person to smile, to
see what awkward ways I took, and what ugly
misshapen things I made; how many either
fell out or cracked, by the violent heat of the
sun, and fell in pieces when they were removed,
so that I think it was two months before I
could perfect any thing; and even then, but
two clumsy things in imitation of earthen jars;
These, however, I very gently placed in wicker
baskets, made on purpose for them, and be-
tween the pot and the baskets, stuffed it full
of rice and barley straw; and these I pre-
sumed would hold my dried corn, and per-
haps the meal, when the corn was bruised.
As for the smaller things, I made them with
better success; such as little round pots, fiat
dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, the sun baking
them very hard.
Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely ne-
cessary, and that was an earthen pot, not only
to hold my liquid, but also to bear the fire,
which none of these could do. It once hap-
pened, that as I was putting out my fire, I
found therein a broken piece* of one of my
vessels burnt hard as a rook, and red as a trie,,
this made me think of burning some pots f
and having no notion of a kiln, or of glazing;
them' with lead, I fixed three large pipkins, and
two'or three pots in a pile one upon. another.
The tire I piled round the outside, and dry
wood on the top, till I saw the pots in the
inside red-hot, and found that they did not
crack at all; and when I perceived them per-
fectly red, I let them stand in the fire five or
six hours, till the clay melted by the extremity
of the heat, and would have run to glass badr
I suffered it: upon which, I slacked my fire.
by degrees, till the redness abated .r and watch-
ing them till the morning, I found 1 had three.
vary good pipkins, aud two earthen pots, as
well burnt and fit for my turn as I could desire.
The first use to which I turned my pipkins,.
naa to. make some salt, which I had long
wanted. For this purpose, I filled them with
sea-water, and kept it slowly boiling over the
fire, till the whole of the water had boiled
away in steam, leaving at the bottom of the
vessel, a thin crust of salt which, I found
very good for giving a relish to my food.
The next concern I had, was to get me a
stone-mortar to beat some corn in instead of
a mill to grind it. Here, indeed, I was at a
great loss, a* not being fit for a stone-cutter;
and many days I spent to find out a great
stone big enough to cut hollow and make it
fit. for a mortar, and strong enough to bear the
weight of a pestle, that would break the fiorn-'
73
without filling it with sand. But all the stone*
of the island being of a mouldering nature,
rendered my search fruitless; and then I re-
solved to look out for a great block of hard
wood; which having found, I formed it with my
axe and hammer, and then, with infinite labour,
made a hollow in it, jast as the Indians of
Brazil make their canoes. When I had finished
this, I made a great pestle of iron-wood, and
then laid thom up against my succeeding
harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve,
to sift my meal and part it from the bran and
husk. Having no fine thin canvass to search
the meal through, I could not tell what to do.
What linen 1 had was reduced to rags: I had
gout's hair enough, but neither tools to work it,
nor did I know how to spin it. At length, 1
remembered T had some neck-cloths of calico
or muslin, of the sailors, which I had brought
out of tlio ship, and with these, I mads threo
small sieves proper enough for the work.
I come now to consider the baking part.—
The want of an oven I supplied, by making
some earthen pans, very broad, but not deep
When 1 had a mind to bake, I made a great
fire upon my hearth, the tiles of which, I had
made myself, and when the wood was burnt
into live coals, I spread them over it, till it be-
came very hot: then sweeping them away,' J
set down my loaves, and whelming down the
earthen pots upon thorn, drew the ashes and
coals all reund the outside of the pots to
E
74
continue the heat; and in this manner, I baked
my barley loaves, as well as if I had been a
complete pastry.cook, and also made of the
rice, several cakes and puddings.
It is no wonder that all these things look me
up the best part of the year, since what inter-
mediate time 1 had, was bestowed in managing
my new harvest and husbandry; for in the
proper season, I reaped my corn, carried it
home and laid it up in the ear, in my large bas-
kets, till I had time to rub, instead of threshing
it. And now indeed, my corn encreased so
much, that it produced me twenty bushels of
barley, and as much of rice, so that I not only
began to use it freely, but was thinking how to
enlarge my barns, and resolved to sow as much
at a time as would be sufficient for a whole
year.
All this while, the prospect of land, which I
had seen from the other side of the Island, ran
in my mind. 1 slill meditated a deliverance
from this place, though the fear of greater mis-
fortunes might have deterred me from it. For,
allowing that I had attained that place, I ran
the hazard of being killed and eaten by the de-
vouring cannibals; and if they were not so,
yet I might be slain, as other Europeans had
been, who fell into their hands. Notwith-
standing all this, my thoughts ran continually
upon that shore. 1 now wished for the long
boat with the shoulder of mutton sail. I went
to the ship's boat, that had been cast a great
way on the shore in the late storm. She was
removed but a little; but her bottom being
turned up by the impetuosity and surge of the
waves and wind, I fell to work with all the
strength 1 had, and with levers and rollers
which I had cut from the wood, to turn her, and
repair the damages she had sustained. This
work took' me up three or four weeks, when
finding my little strength all in vain, I fell to
undermining it, by digging away the sand, and
so to make it fall down, setting pieces of wood
to thrust and guide it in the fall. But after
this was done, I was still unable to stir it up,
or to get under it, much less to move it for.
wards towards the water, and so 1 was forced
to give it over.
This disappointment, however,' did not
frighten me. I began to think, whether it was
not possible for me to make a canoe or Perigua,
such as the Indians make of the trunk of a
tree. Hut here I lay under particular inconve-
niences; want of tools to make it, and want of
hands to move it into the water when it was
made. However to work I went upon it, stop-
ping all the inquiries 1 could make, with this
lery simple aaswer E made to myself, let's first
make it, I'll warrant I'll find someway or other
to get it along when ii is done.
1 first cut down a cedar-tree, which was. five
feet tan inches diameter at the lower part next
the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it
lessened for a space, and then parted into.
branches. Twenty days was I hacking and
B. 2
7<J
bewing it at the bottom, fourteen more in (Sit-
ting off the branches and limbs, and a whole
month in shaping it like the bottom of a boat.'
As for the inside, I was three weeks withi
mallet and chisel, clearing it in such a manner
as that it was big enough to carry 26 men,
much bigger than any canoe I ever saw in my
life, and consequently sufficient to transport
me and all my effects to that wished for shore,
I so ardently desired.
Nothing remained now, but, indeed, the
greatest difficulty, to get it into the water, it
lying about 100 yards from it. To remedy the
first inconvenience, which was a rising hill be*
tween this boat and the creek, with wonderfu 1
pains and labour I dug into the surface of tho
earth, and made a declivity. But when this
was done, a!! the strength 1 had was as insuf-
ficient to move It, as it was when I first made
the attempt. I then proceeded to measure the*
distance of ground, resolving to make a cays.,
in order to bring the water to the canoe, sitxe t
could not bring the canon to the water. Bi t
as this seemed to be impracticable by myself
alone, under the space of eleven or twvlve year*,
it brought me into^sonm sort of consideration;
so that I concluded this also to he impossibh ,
and the attempt vain. I now saw, and not bi-
fore, what stupidity it is to begin work befor©.
we reckon its cost, or judge rightly our own
abilities to go through with its performance.
, In tho height of this work, my fourth year
expired from the time 1 was cast on this island.
77
At this time I did not forget my anniversary,
liut kept it with rather greater devotion than
before. For now my hopes being frustrated, i
looked upon this world as a thing 1 had nothing
to do with; and very well might I say, as fa-
ther Abraham said unto Dives, Between me
u/id thee there is a gulph fixed. And indeed
1 was separated from its wickedness too, having
neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the
eye, nor the pride of life; I had nothing to co-
vet, being lord, kinjr and emperor over the
whole country 1 had in possession, without dis-
pute and without controul; I had loadings of
corn, plenty of turtles, timber in abundance,
and grapes above measure. What was all the
rest to me? the money I had, lay by me as
despicable dross, which I would freely have
given for a gross of tobacco pipes, or a hand-
mill to grind my corn; in a word, the nature
and experience of these things dictated to mo
this just reflection; that the good things of
this world are no further good to us, than as
they are for our use; and that whatever we
way heap up, we can but enjoy as much as we
use, and no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy'
than usual, livery time I sat down to meat, I
did it with thankfulness, admiring the provi-
dential hand of God, who in this wilderness
had spread a table to rue. And now I consi-
dered what I enjoyed, rather than what I want-
ed; compared my present condition with what
1 at first expected it should be; how I should
78
liave done, if I had got nothing out of the ship;
that I must have perished before I had caught
tufa or turtles; or lived, had I found them, like
a mere savage, by eating them raw, and pulling
them to pieces with my claws, like a beast.—
I next compared my station to that which I
deserved; how undutiful I had been to my pa-
rents; how destitute of the fear of God; how
void of every thing that was good, and how
ungrateful for those abundant mercies I had
received from heaven, being fed, as it were, by
a miracle, even as great Elijah was fed by
ravens; and cast on a place where there are no
venomous creatures to poison or devour me; in^
short, making God's tender mercies matter of
#reat consolation, I relinquished all sadness,
and gave way to contentment.
As long as my ink continued, which with
water I made last as long as I could, I used to
minute down the days of the month on which
any remarkable thing happened.
The next thing that wasted after my ink,
was the biscuit, which I had brought out of
the ship; and though I allowed myself but one
cake a day for above a twelvemonth, yet I was
quite out of bread for nearly a year, before I
got any com of my own.
in the next place my clothes began to de-
cay, and my linen had been gone long before.
However, 1 had preserved about three dozen
of the sailors' chequered shirts, which proved
a great refreshment to me, when the violent
beaiun of the sun would not suffer me to bear
79
.any of the seamen's heavy watch-coats; which
made me turn tailor, and, after a miserable
ootching manner, convert them into jaekets. To
preserve my head, 1 made a cap of goat-skins,
with the hair outwards to keep out the rain;
which indeed served me so well, that afterwards
I made a waistcoat and open kneed breeches
of the same: And then I contrived a sort of
umbrella, covering it with skins, which not
only kept out the heat of the sun, but the rain
also. Thus being easy and settled in my mind,
my chief happiness was to converse with God,
in the most heavenly and comfortable ejacula-
tions.
For five years after this. I cannot say any
extraordinary thing occurred to me. My chief
employment was to cure my raisins, and plant
my barley and rice, of both which I had a
year's provision before hand. But though I
was dissappointed in my first canoe, I made it
at intermediate times, my business to make a
second of much inferior size; and it was two
years before I had finished it. But as I per-
ceived it would in no wise answer my design of
sailing to the other shore, my thoughts were
confined to take a tour round the island, to sea
what further discoveries 1 could make. To
this intent, after having moved her to the water
and tried how she would sail, I fitted up a
little mast to my boat, and made a sail of the
ship's sails that layby me, I then made locker*
of boxes at the end of it, to put in necessaries
80
provision and ammunition, which would pre-
serve them dry either from the rain, or the
spray ot the sea; and in the inside of the boat,
I out me a long hollow place to lay my gun,
and to keep it dry, made a cover for it. My
umbrella, 1 fixed in a step in the stern, like a
mast, to keep off the heat of the sun. And
now resolving to see the circumference of my
little kingdom, I victualled my ship for the
voyage, putting in two dozen of my bailey
bread loaves, an earthen pot full of parched
rice, a little bottle of rum, half a goat, powder
and shot, and t\vo watch-coats. It was the 6th
of November, in the 6th year of my reign, or
captivity, that I set out on this voyage; which
was much longer than,I expected, being obliged
to put farther out, by reason of the rocks that
lay a great way in the sea.
And indeed, se much did these rocks sur-
prise me, that I was for putting back, fearing
that if 1 ventured farther, it would be out of
my power to return; in this uncertainty I came
to anchor just off the shore, to which 1 waded
with my gun on my shoulder, and then climbr
ing up a hill, which overlooked that point, I
saw the full extent of it, and so resolved to run
all hazards.
J a this prospect from the hill, I perceived a
violent current running to the east, coming very
elsse to the point; which I the more carefully
observed, thinking it dangerous, and that when
I earns to it, I might be driven into the sea by
Si
its fores, and not able to return to the island;
and certainly it must have been so, had 1 not
made this observation; for on the other side
was the like current, with this difference, that
it set off at a greater distance; and I perceived
there was a strong eddy under the land: so
that my chief business was to work out of the
lirst current, and conveniently get into the eddy.
Two days I staid here, the wind blowing very'
briskly 1£. S. E. which being contrary to the
cum l•t, leaves a great breach of the sea upon
the point; so it was neither tit for me to keep
too near the shore, on account of the breach;
nor stand at too great a distance for fear of the
streams. That night the wind abating, it grew
so calm, that 1 ventured out; and here 1 may
be a monument to all rash and ignorant pilots;
lor i was no sooner come to the point, and not
above the boat's length from shore, but J was
got into a deep water, with a current like a'
mill-race, which drove my boat along so vio-
lently, that it was impossible for me to keep
near the edge of it, being forced more and
more out from the eddy to the left of me; and
all 1 could do with my paddles was useless,
there being no wind to help me.
Now 1 began to look upon myself as quite
lost, since as the current ran on both sides of
the island, I was very certain they must join
again, and then I had no.hopes but of perish-
ing for want in the sea, after what provision I
e 5
83
had was spent, or before, if a storm should
happen to arise.
Who can conceive the present anguish of my
mind at this calamity? with longing eyes did
1 look upon my little kingdom, and thought tho
island the pleasantest place in the universe.—
Happy, thrice happy desert, said I, shall I
never see thee more? Wretched creature!
whither am I going? Why did I murmur
at my lonesome condition, when now I would
give the whole world to be thither again?
While I was thus complaining, I found myself
to be driven about two leagues into the sea:
however1, I laboured till my strength was far
spent, to keep my boat as far north as pos-
sibly I could, to that side of the current, where
the eddy lay. About noon I perceived a lit-
tle breeze of wind spring up from the S. S. E.
which overjoyed my heart; and was still more
elated, when in about half an hour, it blew
a gentle fine gale. {lad any thick weather
sprung up, I had been lost another way; for
having no compass on board, I should never
have found the way to steer towards the island,
if once it had disappeared; but it proving
the contrary, I set up my mast again, spread
my sail, and stood away northward, as much
as I could, to get rid of the current. And
no sooner did the boat begin to stretch away,
but I perceived, by the cleamess of the water,
a change of the current was near; for;, where,
it was strong, the water was foul; aud where,
it was clear, the current abated.
Those who have been in the like calamities
with my own, may guess my present excess of
joy, how heartily 1 ras my boat in the stream
of this eddy, and how joyfully I spread my
sail to the refreshing wind, standing cheerfully
before it, with a smart tide under foot. By the
assistance of this eddy, I was carried above a
league home again, when being in the wake of
the island, between the two currents, 1 found
the water to be in a sort of stand. About
four o'clock in the afternoon, I reached within
a league of the island, and perceived the
points of the rock, which caused this disaster,
stretching out, as I observed before, to the
southward, which throwing off the current
more southerly, had occasioned another eddy
to the north. But having a fair brisk gale,
I stretched across this eddy, and in an hour
came within a mile of the shore, where I soon
landed, to my unspeakable comfort; and af-
ter a.B humble prostration, thanking God for
my deliverance, with a resolution to lay all
thoughts of escaping aside, I brought my boat
safe to a little cove, and laid me down to tako
a welcome repose. When I awoke, I was
considering how I might get my boat home;
and coasting along the shore, I came to a good
bay, which ran up to a rivulet or brook, whore,
finding a harbour, I stowed ner as safo as
if she had been in a dry dock, made on pur-
pose for her.
I now perceived myself not far from the
piece, where before I had travelled on foot; so
taking nothkig with me, except my guraand 11m-
hrella, I began my journey, and in the even-
ing came to my bower, where I again laid rue
down to rest. 1 had not slept long before [
wakened in great surprize, by'a strange voice
that callud me several times, Robin, Robin,
Robinson Crusoe, poor Robin! Where are
yon, Robinson Crusoe? Where are you I
Where have you been?
80 fast was I asleep, that at first I did not
wako thoroughly; but half asleep and half
awake, I thought I dreamed that somebody
spoke to me. But as the voice repeated, Ro-
binsen Crusoe, several times, being terribly
frightened, I started up in the utmost confusion;
and, no sooner were my eyes fully open, but I
beheld my pretty Poll sitting on the top of tho
hedgs, and soon knew that it was he that called
we; for just in such bewailing language, I
used to talk and teach, him; which lie so exact-
ly learned, that he would sit upon my finger,
and lay his bill close to my face, and cry,
Poor Robinson Crusoe, where are you ?—
where have you been? how came you here?
and such like prattle I had constantly taught
him. But even though I knew it to be the
parrot, it was a long time before I could ad.
just myself; boing amazed how the creature
got thither, and that he should fix about that
place, and no where else. But now, being
assured it could be no other than my honest
Poll, my wonder ceased, and reaching out my
band, and calling Poll, the creature came to
85
me familiarly, and perched upon my thumb,
as lie was wout, constantly prating to me with
Poor Robinson Crusoe, and how did I vome
here, and where had I been f as if the bird
was overjoyed to see me; and so I took him
Lome along with me. 1 was now pretty well
cured of rambling to sea; yet I could wish
my boat which had cost me so much trouble
and pains, on this side of the island once more,
but this, indeed, was impracticable. I there-
fore began to lead a very retired life, living
nearly a twelvemonth in a very contented man-
ner, wanting for nothing but conversation.—
As to mechanic labours, which my necessi-
ties obliged me to, I fancied I could, upon oc.
«asion, make a tolerable carpenter, were the
poor tools I had to work withal, but good.—
Besides, as I improved in my earthen ware, I
contrived to make them with a wheel, which I
found much easier and better, making my work
shapely, which before was rude and ugly.—
But, I think I never was so elevated with my
own performance or project, as when able to
make a tobacco pipe, which though it proved
an awkward clumsy thing, yet it was very
sound, and carried the smoke perfectly well,
to my great satisfaction.
I also improved my wicker ware, made mo
abundance of necessary baskets, which, though
not very handsome, were very handy and con-
venient to fetch things home in, as also for
holding my stores, barley, rice, and other pro-
visions.
<*(>
My powder beginning to fail, made me
examine after what manner I should kill the
floats or birds, to live on, after it was all gone.
Upon which, I contrived,many ways to ensnare ,
the goats, and see if I could catch them alive,
particularly a she-goat with young.
At last I had my desire; for making pit-
falls and traps, baited with barley and rice, I
found one morning in one of them, an old he-
goat, and in the other, three kids, one male,
the other two, females.
So boisterous was the old one, that I could
not bring him away. But I forgot the old
proverb, That hunger will tame a lion: For,
had I kept him three or four days without pro-
visions, and then given him some water, with
a little corn, he would have been as tame as a
young kid. The other creatures I bound with
strings together; but I had great difficulty be-
fore 1 could bring them to my habitation. It
was some time before they would feed; but
throwing them sweet corn, it so much tempted
them, that they began to be tamer. From
hence 1 concluded, that if I designed to furnish
myself with goat's flesh, when my ammunition
was spent, the tamely breeding them up, like
a flock of sheep, about my settlement, was the
only method 1 could take. I concluded also,
1 must separate the wild from the tame, or
else they would always run wild as they
grew up; and the best way for this, was io
have some enclosed piece of ground, well
JTejiced, either with a hedge or pale, to keep
§7
them so effectually, that those within might
not hreak out, nor those without break in.—
Such an undertaking was very great for one
[lair of hands; but as there was an absolute
necessity for doing it, my first care was to lind
a convenient piece of ground, where there was
likely to be herbage for them to eat, water to
drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.
Here again, I gave another instance of my
ignorance and inexperience, pitching upon a
piece of meadow-land so large, that had I
enclosed it, the hedge or pale must have been
al least two miles about. This thought came
into my head, after 1 had carried it on, I be-
lieve, about titty yards; 1 therefore altered my
scheme, and resolved to enclose a piece of
ground, about 150 yards in length, and 100 in
breadth, large enough for as many as would
maintain me, till such time as my flock in-
creased, and then 1 could add more ground.
1 now vigorously prosecuted my work, and it
took me about three months in hedging the
<irst piece; in which time, I tethered the three
ikids in the best part ol it; feeding them as
jiear me as possible, to make them familiar;
find, indeed, I very often would carry some
cars of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed
them out of my hand, by which they grew
*o tame, that when my enclosure was finished,
find I had let them loose, they would run
fitter me for a handful of corn. This indeed
junswered my end; and in a year and a half's
*ime, 1 had a flock of about twelve goats,
ss
ET&s and all; and in two years after, they
amounted to forty.three, bosides what 1 had
killed for my sustenance.
After which, I inclosed five several pieces of
ground to feed them in, with pens to drive them
into, that I might take them as 1 had occasion.
In this project I likewise found additional
blessings; for I not only had plenty of goat's
flesh, but milk too, which in tbo beginning, I
did not so much as think of. And, indeed,
though I had never milked a cow, much less a.
goat, or seen butter or cheese made, yet after
some essays and miscarriages, 1 made me botii,
and never afterwards wanted.
How mercifully can the Almighty comfort
his creatures, even in the midst of their greatest
calamities? How can he sweeten the bitterest
evils, and give us reason to magnify him in dun-
geons and prisons; what a bounteous table was
here spread in a wilderness for me, where I ex-
pected nothing at first, but to perish for hunger.
Certainly any one would have smiled to see
me at dinner. There sat my royal majesty, an
absolute prince and ruler of my kingdom, at-
tended by my dutiful subjects, whom, if I
pleased, I could either punish or reward, give
them liberty or take it away. When I dined,
I seemed a king, eating alone, none daring to
presume to do so till 1 had done. Poll, as if he
had been my principal court favourite, was the
only person permitted to talk with me. My old
but faithful dog, now grown exceedingly crazy,
continually sat on my right hand; while nly
Si)
two cat* sat on each side of the tahle, expect-
ing a bit from my hand, as a principal mark of
my royal favour. These wire not the cats I
had brought from the ship; they had been dead
long before, and interred near my habitation by
mine own hand. But a couple of their young I
had n'ade tame; the rest ran wild iato the woods,
and in time grew so impudent, as to return aud
plunder me of my stores, till such time as I shot
a great many, and the rest left me without troub-
ling me any more. In this plentiful manner did
I live, wanting for nothing but conversation.—
One thing indued concerned me, the want ot my
boat; 1 knew not which way to get her round the
icland. One time 1 resolved to go along the shore
by land to her; but had any one at home met
kuch a figure, itwould either have affrighted them
or made them burst into laughter; nay, I could
not but smile myself at my habit, which I think
in this place it will be very proper to describe.
The cap 1 wore upon my head, was gieat,
high, and shapeless, made of a goat's skiu, with
a flap or pent-house hanging down behind, not
only to keep the 3un from me, but to shoot the
rain off from running into my neck, nothing
being more pernicious than the rain falling upon
the ncsh in these climates. I had a short jacket
of goat's skin, whose hair hung down such a
length on each side, that it reached down to
the calves of my legs. As for shoes and stock-
ings, I had none, but made a resemblance of
something, I knew not what to call them; they
wera made like buskins, and laced on the side
no
lilce spattenlftshes, barbarously shaped, like the
rest of my habit. I had a broad belt of goat's
skin dried, girt round me with a couple of thongs,
instead of buckles; on each of which, to sup.
ply the deficiency of sword and dagger, hung
my hatchet and saw. I had another belt not
so broad, yet fastened in the same manner, which
hung over my shoulder, and at the end of it,
under my left arm, hung two pouches made o*
goat's skin, to hold my powder and shot. My ,
basket, I carried on my back, and my gun on
my shoulder; and over my head, a great clum-
sy ugly goat's skin umbrella, which, however,
next to my gun, was the most necessary thing
about me. As for my face, the colour was not
so swarthy as the Mulattoes, or as might hava
been expected from one who took so little care
of it, in a climate within nine or ten degrees of
the Line. At one time, my beard grew so long
that it hung down above a quarter of a yard;
but as I had both razors and scissarsin store, I
cut it all off, and suffered none to grow, except
a large pair of whiskers, the like of which I had
Been worn by some Turks at Salee, not long
enough indeed to hang a hat upon, but of such
a monstrous size, as completely to alter my ap-
pearance.
But all this was of no consequence here, there
being none to observe my behaviour or habit.
And so, without fear and without controul, I
proceeded on my journey, the prosecution of
which took me up five or six days. I travelled
along tlia sea shore, directly to the place wher«
91
1 first brought my boat to an anchor, to get
upon the rock*; but now having no boat to
take care of, 1 went over-land, a nearer way to
the same height that I was before upon; when
looking forward to the point of the rock, which
lay out, and which 1 was forced to double with
rjjy boat, I was amazed to see the sea so smooth
and quiet, there being no rippling motion, nor
current, any more than in other places. And
now 1 was convinced, that by observing the
ebb and flow of the tide, 1 might easily bring
my boat round the island again. But when I
began to think of putting it in practice, the re-
mem bran ce of the late danger, struck me with
such horror, that I took another resolution,
though more laborious; and this was to make
a second canoe, and so have one for one side of
the island, and one for the other.
I had now two plantations in the island ; the
first, my little fortification, fort, or castle, with
many large and spacious improvements; for by
this time I had enlarged the cave behind mo
with several little caves, one within another, to
hold my baskets, corn and straw. The piles
'with which I made my wall were grown so
lofty acd great, as to obscure my habitation.—
And near this commodious and pleasant settle-
ment, lay my well cultivated and improved corn
fields, which kindly yielded me their fruit in the
proper season. My second plantation was that
near my country-seat, or little bower, where my
grapes flourished, and where having planted
my stakes, I made inclosurcs for my goats, so
1)2
«trong!y fortified by labour and time, that it was
much stronger than a wall, and', consequently,
,impossible tor them to break through. As for
my bower itself, 1 tept it constantly in repair,
and cut the trees in such a manner, as made
tbeui grow wild, and form a most delightful
shade. In the centre of this, stood my tent,
thus erected I had driven four piles in the
ground, spreading over it a piece of the ship's
nail: beneath which, I made me a sort of couch
with the skins of the creatures I had slain, and
other tilings; and having laid thereon one of
the sailor's blankets, which I had saved from
the wreck of the ship, and covering myself with
a great watch coat, I took up this place for my
country retreat.
Very frequently, from this settlement, did I
use to visit my boat, and keep her in very good
order. And, sometimes, would 1 venture in her
a cast or two from shoro but no farther. But
now, I entreat your attention, whilst I proceed
to inform you of a new, but most surprising
scene of life which here befel me.
You may easily suppose, that, after having
been here so long, nothing could be moro'
amazing than to see a human creature. . One
rluy it happened, that going to my boat, 1 saw
the print of a man's naked loot on the shore,
very evident on the sand, as the toes, heels, and
every part of it. Had i seen a monster of tins
most frightful shape, 1 could not.have been mow
confounded. My willing ears gave the strictest
attention. I cast my eyes aiuund, but could

Robinson Crusoe startled at the print
.of a maiu toot in tlie sar.d.
satisfy neither the one nor the other. I pro*
ceeded alternately to every part of the shore,
but with equal effect; neither could 1 see any
other mark, though the sand about it was as
susceptible to take impression, as that which was
so pla;nly stamped. Thus, struck with confu-
sion ahd horror, I re•urned to my habitation,
frightened at every bush and tree, taking every
thing for men; and possessed with the wildest
ideas! That night my eyes never closed. I
formed nothing but the most dismal imagina-
tions. In a word, all my religious hopes va-
nished, as though I thought God would not
now protect me by his power, who had won-
derfully preserved me so long.
What various chains of events are there in
the life of man? How changeable are our af-
fections, according to different circumstances?
We love to day, what we hate to-morrow: we
shun one hour what we seek the next. This was
cw'dent in me in the most conspicuous maimer;
for I, who before had so much lamented my
condition, in being banished from all human
kind, was now ready to expire when I consi-
dered that a man had set his foot on this deso.
late island. But when I considered my station
of life, that it was allotted to me by the infinitely
wise and good providence of God, that I ought,
not to dispute my Creator's sovereijjnty, who
had an undoubted right to govern and dispose of
his creatures as he thinks convenient; and that
his justice and mercy could either punish or de-
liver me: I say, when I considered all thjs, I
comfortably found it my duty to trust sincerely
in him, pray ardently to him, and humbly re-
sign myself to his divine will.
One morning, lying on my bed, these words
of the sacred writings came into my mind, Call
upon me in the day of trouhle, and I will de-
liver thee, and thou s/ialt glorify me. Upon
this sentence, rising more cheerfully from my
l>ed, I offered up my prayers in the most devout
manner: and when I had done, taking up 'my
bible to read, these words appeared in my sight;
Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and
he shall strengthen thy heart; Wait, I say,
on the Lord. Such divine comfort did this give
me, as to remove all cause of sadness upon that
occasion.
Thus, after a world of apprehensions and
fears, for three days and night*, I at last ven.
tured out of my castle, and milked my goats,
one of which was almost spoiled for want of it.
I next (though in great fear,) visited my bower,
.and milked my flocks there also; when, grow-
ing bolder, I went down to the shore again, and
measuring the print of the foot to mine, to see
perhaps whether I myself had not occasioned
that mark, I found it much superior in large-
ness; and so returned home, absolutely con-
vinced, that either some men had been ashore,
or that the island must be inhabited; and, there-
fore, that I might be surprised before I was
aware.
I now began to think of providing for my
security, and revolved in my mind many
,
dfflcrcnt schemes for that purpose. I first pro-
posed to cut down my enclosures, and turn my
tame cattle wild into the woods, that the enemy
might not find them, and frequent the island in
hopes of killing the same. Secondly, I was for
digging up my corn fields for the very same
reason. And, lastly, I concluded to demolish
my bower, lest seeing a place of human con-
trivance, they might come farther, and find out,
and attack me in my castle.
Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that
night; yet nature, spent and tired, submitted
to a silent repose the next morning, and then
joining reason with fear, I considered, that this
delightful and pleasant island might not be so
entirely forsaken as I might think; but that the
inhabitants from the other shore might sail,
either with design, or from necessity, by cross
winds; and, if the latter circumstance, I had
reason to believe, they would depart the first
opportunity. However, my fear made me think
of a place of retreat upon an attack. I now
repented that I bad made my door to come out
beyond my fortification; to remedy which, I
resolved to make me a second one; I fell to
work, therefore, and drove betwixt that double
row of trees, which I planted above twelve years
before, several strong piles, thickening it with
pieces of timber and old cables, and strengthen-
'ing the foot of it with earth which I dug out of
rny cave; I also made me seven holes, wherein
1 planted my muskets like cannon, fitting them
»7
into frames resembling carriages. This behij
finished with indefatigable industry, for a great
way every where, I planted sticks of osier like
a wood about twenty thousand of them, leaving
,a laTge space between them and my wall, that
I might have room to see an enemy, and that
they might not be sheltered among the young
trees, if they offered to approach the outer wall.
And indeed, scarcely two years had passed over
my head, when there appeared a lovely shady
grove, and in six years, it became a thick wood,
perfectly impassable. For my .safety, T left no
avenue to go in or out; instead of which, 1 set
two ladders, one to a part of the rock which
was low, and then broke in, leaving room to
place another ladder upon that; so that when
I took those down, it was impossible for any
man to descend without hurting himself; and
if they had, they would still be at the outside
of my outer wall. But while I took all these
measures of human prudence for my own pre-
servation, I was not altogether unmindful of
other affairs. To preserve my stock of tame
goats, that the enemy should not take all at
once, 1 looked out for the most retired part of
the island, which was the place where 1 had
lost myself before mentioned, and there find-
ing a clear piece of land, containing three
acres, surrounded with thick woods, I wrought
so hard, that in less than a month's time, I
fenced it so well round, that my flocks were
<)8
very well secured in it, and I put therein two
he-goats, and ten she ones.
All this labour was occasioned purely by
fearful apprehensions, on account of seeing the
print of a man's foot. And not contented yet
with what I had done, I searched for another
place towards the west part of the island, where
I might also retain another flock. Then wan.
dering on this errand more to the west of the
island than ever I bad yet done, and casting my
eyes towards the sea, methought I perceived a
boat at a great distance: but could not possibly
tell what it was tor want of my spy-glass. I
considered then, it was no strange thing to see
the print of a man's foot; and concluding them
cannibals, blessed God for being cast on the
other side of the island, where none of the
savages, as I thought ever came. But when I
came down the hill to the shore, which was the
8. W. point of the island, I was soon confirm-
ed in my opinion; nor can any one describe
my horror and amazement, when I saw the
ground spread with sculls, bands, feet, and
bones of human bodies; and particularly, I
perceived a space like a circle, in the midst of
which had been a fire, about which I conjee-
tured those wretches sat, and unnaturally sa-
crificed and devoured their fellow creatures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dread-
ful spectacle, both confounded my senses, and
made me discharge from my stomach in an ex-
cessive manner. I then returned towards my
<>!>
habitation; and in my way thither, shedding
floods of tears, and falling down on my bended
knees, gave God thanks for making my nature
contrary to those wretches, and delivering me
so long out of their hands.
Though reason and my long residence here,
had assured me, that the savages never came
up to the thick woody part of the country, and
that I had no reason to be apprehensive of a
discovery, yet such an abhorrence did I still
retain, that, for two years after, I confined my.
self only to my three plantations; I mean my
castle, country seat, and enclosure in the woods,
though in process of time, my dreadful appre.
hensions began to wear away.
Thus my circumstances for some time re.
mained very calm and undisturbed; though in-
deed, the terror which the savages had put me
in, spoiled some inventions for my own conve-
nience. One of my projects was to brew ma
sume beer; a very whimsical one indeed, when
it was considered, that I had neither casks suf-
ficient, nor could I make any to preserve it in;
neither had I hops to make it keep: yeast to
make it work, nor a copper nor kettle to make
it boil. Perhaps, indeed, after some years, I
might bring this to bear, as I had done other
things. But now my inventions were placed
another way; and day and night I could think
of nothing but how I might destroy some of
these cannibals, when proceeding to their bloody
entejrtainnjents; and so saving a victim froiu
100
being sacrificed, fliat he might afterwards become
my servant. Many were my contrivances for
this purpose, and many more objections occur-
red, after I had hatched them. I once contrived
to dig a hole under the place where they made
their fire, and put therein five or six pounds of
powder, which would consequently blow up
all those that were near it; but then I was loth
to spend so much upon them, lest it should not
do that certain execution I desired, and only
affright and not kill them. Having laid this de-
sign aside, I again proposed to myself to lie pri-
vately in ambush in some convenient place, with
my three guns double loaded, and let fly at them
in the midst of their dreadful ceremony: and
having killed two or three of them at every shot,
fall upon the rest suddenly with my three pis-
tols, and let not one of them escape. This plan
appeared to me so practicable that I used to
dream of it in the night time. To put my de-
sign in execution, I was not long seeking for a
place convenient for my purpose, where unseen
I might behold every action of the savages.—
Here I placed my two muskets, each of which
was loaded with a brace of slugs, and four or
five smaller bullets about the size of pistol bul-
lets; the fowling piece was charged with nearly
a handful of the largest swan shot, and in every
pistol about four bullets. And thus all things
being prepared, no sooner did the welcome light
spread over the element, but I would issue forth
from my castle, and from a lofty hill, three
miles distant, try if I could see any invader*
101
Approach unlawfully to my kingdom. But hav-
ing waited in vain two or three months, it grew
very tiresome to me.
I now argued with myself, it was better for
me never to attack, hut to remain undiscovered
as long as I possibly could; that an opposite
conduct would certainly prove destructive; for
as it was scarcely to he supposed I could kill
them all, I might either he overpowered by tho
remaining, or that some escaping might bring
thousands to my certain destruction. And, in-
deed, religion took their part so much as to con-
vince me how contrary it was to my duty, to bo
guilty of shedding human blood, innocent as to
me in particular, whatever they are to one ano»
ther; that I had nothing to do with it, but leave
it to the God of all power and dominion, as \
said before, to do therein what seemed conve-
nient to his heavenly wisdom. And, therefore,
on my knees I thanked the Almighty for deli-
vering me from blood-guiltiness, and begged his
protection that I might never fall into their
hands.
Thus giving over an attempt which I had
rashly begun, I never ascended the hill on that
occasion afterwards; I only removed my boat,
which lay on the other side of the island, and
every thin^ that belonged to her, towards the
east, into a little cove, that there might not be
the least shadow of any boat near, nor habita-
tion upon the island. My castle then beqame
103
my cell, keeping always retired in it, except
when I went out to milk my she-goats, or my
little flock in the wood, which was quite out of
danger; for sure I was, that these savages ne-
ver came here with expectation to find any
thing, and consequently never wandered from
the coast; however, as they might have several
times been on shore, as well betore as after my
dreadful apprehensions, I looked back with
horror to think in what state 1 might have been
had I suddenly met them, slenderly armed, with
one gun only loaded with small shot; and how
great would have been my amazement, if, in-
stead of seeing the print of one man's foot, I
had perceived fifteen or twenty savages, who.
having once set their eyes upon me, by the
swiftness of their feet, would nave left me n<*
possibility of escaping? These thoughts would
sink my very soul, so that I would fall into a
deep melancholy, till such time as the consU
deration of my gratitude to the divine Being,
moved it from my heart. I then fell into a con-
templation of the secret springs of Providence;
aqd how wonderfully we are delivered, when
insensible of it; and when in uncertain mazes
or labyrinths of doubt or hesitation, what se-
cret hint directs us in the right way, when we
intended to go out of it; nay, perhaps contrary
to our business, sense, or inclination.
Anxieties of mind, and the care of my pre-
servation, put a period to all future inventions
and contrivances, either for accommodation, ox
103
•onvcnienee. I now eared not to J rive a nail,
ehop a stick, fire a gun, or make a fire, lest
either the noise should be heard, or the smoke
discover me. And on this account I used to
burn my earthen ware privatelyin a cave, whioh
I found in the wood, and which 1 made conve-
nient lor that purpose; the principal cause that
brought me here was to make charcoal, so that
I might hake and dress my bread and meat
without any danger.
At that time, a curious accident happened to
me, which I shall now relate.
While I was cutting down some wood, for
niaking my charcoal, I pe/ceived a cavity be-
hind a very thick branch of underwood. Cu-
rious to look into it, I attained its mouth, and
perceived it suilicbnt for me to stand upright
jn.
But when I had entered, having crept, upon
my hands and feet through this strait, I found
the roof higher Uji, I think about twenty ftet.
But surely never had I seen such a glorious
sight before: the roof and walls of this cave
refleeted a hundred thousand lights to me from
my two caudles, as though they were indented
with shining gold, precious stones, or sparkling
diamonds. And indeed it was the most delight'
i'ul cavity or grotto of its kind that cpuld bo
desired, though entirely dark. The floor wa*
dry and level, and had a kind of gravel upon .
it; no nauseous venemous creatures to be seea
there, neither any damp or wet about it. I could
find no fault but in the entrance, and I bejfuu
101
to think, Hiat even this might be very necessary
for my defence, and therefore resolved to make
it my principal magazine. 1 brought hither two
fowling pieces, and three muskets, leaving only
five pieces at my castle, planted in the nature
of cannon. In a barrel of gun-powder, which
I took out of the sea, I brought away about
sixty pounds of good powder, which was not
damaged; and this, with a great quantity of
lead for bullets, I remnved irom my castle to
this retreat, now fortified both by art and nature.
I fancied myself now like one of the'giants
of old, who were said to live in caves and holes
among the rocks, inaccessible to any but them.:
selves, or at least, most dangerous to attempt.
And now I defied both the cunning and strength
of the savages, either to find me out, or to hurt
me.
1 think I was now in the twenty-third year.
of my reign, and my thoughts much easier than
formerly, having contrived several pretty amuse-
ments and diversions to pass away the time in
a pleasant manner. By this time, my pretty
Poll had learned to speak English, and pro-
nounce his words very articulately and plain;
bo that for many hours we used to chat together
after a very familiar manner, and he lived no
less than twenty-six years. My dog, which
was nineteen years old, sixteen of which he
lived with me, had died some time ago, of mere
old age. As for rny cats, they multiplied so fast,
that 1 was forced to Hill or drive them into the
woods, except two or Uarec which became my
105
particular favourites. Besides these, I conti-
nually kept two or three household kids about
me, which I taught to feed out of my hand,
and two more parrots which could talk indif-
ferently, and could call Robinson Crusoe, but not
so excellently as the first, by my not taking so
much pains with them. I had also several sea
fowls which I had wounded and cut their wings;
these growing tame, used to breed among tho
low trees about my castle walls, all of which
made my abode very agreeable.
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy
the enjoyments of this uncertain state of life,
when wo least expect them! It was now the
month of December, and the particular time
in my harvest, which required my attendance
in the fields; when going out pretty early in
the morning, before it was day-light, there ap-
peared to me from the sea shore, a flaming.
light, about two miles from me at the east en5
of the island, where I had observed some sa-
vages had been before, not on the other side,
but to my great affliction it wag on my side of
the island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual
apprehensions, that the savages would perceive
my improvements, I returne4 directly to my
castle, pulled the ladder after me, making all
things look as wild and natural as I possibly
could. In the next place, I put myself in a
posture of defence, loaded my muskets and pis-
tols, and committing myself to God's protec-
tion, 1 resolved to defend mysotf tjil my last
106
nreatli. Two hours after, impatient for intelli-
gence, I set my ladder up to the side of the
hill, where there was a flat place, and then pul-
ling the ladder after me, ascended to the top,
where laying myself on my belly, with my
perspective glass 1 perceived no less than nine
naked savages, sitting round a small fire, eating
as 1 supposed, human flesh, with their two canoes
hauled on shore, waiting for the flood to carry
them off again. The consternation I was in
at this sight, especially seeing them near me,
was very great; but when T perceived their
coming must be always with the current of the
ebb, f became more easy in my thoughts, be.,
ing fully convinced, that I might go abroad
with security all the time of the flood, if they
were not before landed. And indeed, this proved
just as I imagined; for no sooner did they all
take boat and paddle away, but the tide mado
N. W. When I saw them. gone, I took two
guns upon my shoulders, and placing a couple
of pistols in my belt, with my great sword hang-
ing by my side, I went to the hill, where at
first I made a discovery of these cannibals, and
then saw there had been three canoes more of
the savages on shore at that place, which with
the rest were making over to the main land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me,
when going to the place of sacrifice, the blood,
the bones, and other mangled parts of hu-
man bodies appeared in my sight; and so fired
was I with indignation, that I was fully resolved
to use my lire arras ip endcavourinj to check
107
tlieir cruel practices, though I lost my life in the
execution. It then appeared to me, that the
visits which they make to this island are not
very frequent, it being fifteen months before
they came again; but still I was very uneasy,
by reason of the dismal apprehensions of their
surprising me unawares: nor dared I offer to
fire a gun on that side of the island, where
they used to appear, lest taking the alarm,
they might return with many hundred canoes,
and then, God only knows in what manner
I should have made my end. Thus was I a
year or more before I saw any of these de-
vouring cannibals again.
But, to wave this, the following accident,
which demands attention, for a while diverted
my thoughts from these cannibals.
On the 16th of May (according to my
wooden calendar) the wind blew exceedingly
hard, accompanied with abundance of thunder
and lightcing all day, and .succeeded by a very
stormy night. I had gone to bed at my usual
time, but finding it impossible to sleep, I arose
and having stirred up the embers of my fire,
sat down to my Bible. Whilst I was seriously
pondering upon it, I was suddenly alarmed
with the noise of a gun, which I conjectured
was fired upon the ocean. Such an unusual
surprise made me start up in a minute; when,
with my ladder ascending the mountain as be.
fore, that very moment, a flash of fire pre-
saged the report of another gun, which I pre-
sently heard, and found it was from the put of
IOS
the sea where the current drove roe away, I
could not but then think, that this must be a
ship in distress, and that these were the melatt-
choly signals for a speedy deliverance. Great,
indeed, was my sorrow upon this occasion; but
my labours to assist them must have proved al-
together vain and fruitless. However, i brought
together all the dry wood that was at hand, and
making a pretty large pile, sot it on fire on the
hill. I was certam they plainly perceived it,
by their firing another gun as soon as it began
to blaze, and after that, several more from the
same quarter. All night long,, I kept up my
fire; and when the air cleared up, I perceived
something a great way at sea, directly E. but
could not distinguish what it was, even with
my glass, the weather being so very foggy out
at sea. However, keeping my eyes directly
fixed upon it, and perceiving it did not stir, 1
presently concluded it must be a ship at an-
chor, and so very hasty was I to be satisfied,
that, taking my gun, I wont to the S. W. part
of the island, to the same rocks where I had
been formerly driven away by the current; in
which time the weather being perfectly cleared
up, to my great sorrow, I perceived the wreck
of a ship cast away upon those hidden rocks T
had found when I was out with my boat; and
which, by making a kind of eddy, were the
occasion of' my preservation.
When I considered seriously every thing
concerning this wreck, , and could perceive no
* , •* .....

109
jfaom to tupposa any of them sated. { cannot
explain, by any possible forco of words, what
longing* my aoul felt on this occasion, often
breaking out in this manner. O that thero
had been but two or three, nay, even one per-
son saved, that we might havo lived together,
conversed with, and comforted one another,
and so much were my desires moved, that
when I repeated those words, "Oh! that
*' there had been but one!" my hands would
clench together, and my fingers press tho
'ms of my hands so close, that, had any
b thing been between, they would have crush-
it, while my teeth would strike together,
find set against each other so strong, that it
required aomo time for me to part them.
Till the lattyear of my being on this island,
I never knew whether or not any one had been
saved out of this ship. I had the affliction,
*omo time after, to see the corpso of a drowned
hoy como on shore, at the end of the island
which was next tho shipwrock; there was no-
thing on him but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair
of open.kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
.shirt, but no particular mark to guess what
nation ho was of. In his pocket wore tw••
pieces of eight, and a tobacco pipe, tho last
of which I preferred much more than I did (hp
first. And now tho calmness of the sea tempted
mo to venturo out in my boat to this wreck, t;ot
only to get somethingnVc »<ary out of the ship,
hut in hopes that some lining creature ip'^nt
be on board, whoso life I might preserve, 'i ins;
(i
m,
had suA ari ^nfla'en'ce^ponnaV rhirirl, 'Aiit'ifi?-
mcdiutely I went home', ah(K|n,erfaVe#;VvyW'
tiling necessary 'for :fhe: Tbya$, xHrrying 'en
board my boat,' provisions of'alt ports', with
some fresh water, and a compass; so putting
off, T paddled the canoe along the shore, tfll I
came to the N; E. part of the inland, from
whence I was to launch info the'oce^n; huf
here the current ran so' violently, and appeared
so terrible, that my heart began to fall me:;
foreseeing, that if I was driven intb any: of
these currents; I might be carried.hot Only Out
of the reaclf.br ;sight of th« islan'd; bat evert
inevitably losf rrr'thc surges of tile dceart. , , '"
'So oppressed' was I at these troWble^, that!
gave over my enterprise, sairrri'g . to . a little
creek on the shore,' where, stepping ont, I sai
me down oa 'a rising' bill, veryv'pensive and
thoughtful. I then perceived.tjlat the tide
was turned, aiid;the flood caioe'itfnV 'which made/
it impracticable! 'for red to'go o'uffor so many
hours.
That flight, I reposed myself xts my canoe/
covered with my watch coatinstead of a blanket,
the heavens being my tester. The ireit morning
1 set out with the first of the tide full n<irth, tifi
I felt the benefit of the current, which carried
nie at a great rate eastward,' yet not with such
impetuosity as before, nor so as to take frorfi
me all government of my canoe";' so that in two
hours 1 came up to the wreck, which appeared to
me a'mOst melancholy sight, ft sftemcd to be a
Spanish Vessel fcy its building, stuck fast between

Hi
fnclcs; her stem and quarters beater)' fo-
es by the sea: libr main'-mast and fore-mait
^.c•vJ1 brought off by the board; that is, broken
smiW. As I approached nearer, 1 perceived
a dogon board, who', seeing nre coming, yelp-
ed and cried: and no sooner did I call hini,
buttire poor creature jumped mfo the sea, out
of which I took him up almost famished with
hunger and thirst; so that when i gave him a
cake of bread, no ravenous wolf could devour
it more greedily; and he drank to that degree
of fresh water, that he would hare burst him-
self had I suffered him,
The first sight T met.with, in the ship/ wefe
two men drowned in the cock-room or fore^
castle, inclosed in one another's arms.: hence I
very' probably' supposed, tlmt when the vessel
struck in the storm, so high and incessantly did
the waters break in and over her, that the men
not being able to bear it, Were strangled by the
constant rushing of the waves. There were
several' casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy
I could not be positive, which lay in the lower
hold, as were plainly perceptible by the ebbing
out of the water, yet were too large for mo to
•retend to meddle with: likewise 1 perceived
veral chests, which I supposed belonged tu•
seamen, two of which I took into my boat,
,•Jiout examining what was in them. What
lecuirie of, the rest of the sailors I conld not
certainly tell; and all her riches signified no-
thing at that time to any body.
Searching farther, I R/and a cask, containing
Hi
about twenty gallons' full of U<$uor, which: wfth
some labour I got into my hoat; Jii a ea^tn
.iff re. several muskets, which I let remain there;
> but took away with me a groat powder horn,
tilth about four pounds of ponder in it I
took also a fire shovel and torjgs,,,,wlith two-
kettles, a copper pot to make chololatc,, and a.
grid-iron, all which I thought must;prove high-
ly usoful to me, especially the fire shovel ana
tongs. And so with the cargo, accompanied by
*uy 4og, I came away, the tide serving for that
purpose; and the sarao evening about an hour
within night, I attained the island, after the
greatest toil and fatigue imaginable.
That night I reposed my weary limbs in
<lie boat, revolving tho noxt morning to har.
bour what I had gotten, in my new found .
ftnder-ground grotto; and not carry my cargo-
Jlonie to my ancient castle. Having refreshed
myself, and got all my effects on shore, I next
.proceeded to examine the particulars; and so>
tapping the cask, I found the liquor to bo a
kind of rum, but not like what we had at th»
Brazils, nor indeed near so good. At the.
opeuing of the chests several things appeared
very useful to mo; for instance, I found in.
one, a vpry fine case of bcttles, containing the
finest and best sort of cordial waters -r each
bottle held about three pints, and was curiously
. tipt with silver. 1 found also two pots full of
the chuice.it-woctmcat.;, and two more which the
water had utterly spoiled. There were like-
wise sovcral good shirte, exceedingly welcon.e
143
... ;.
to me, and about one dozen and a half of white
linen hankerchiefs, and coloured neckcloths,
the former of which was useful for wiping my
face in a hot day; and in the till, I found three
hogs of money, in one of which, decently wrapt
up in a piece of papor, were six doubloons of
gold; and some small bars and wedges of the
same metal, which I believe might weigh near
a pound. In the other chests, I only found
some clothes of very little value, and about
two pounds of fine glazed powder, in three
flasks, kept as J believe for charging their fow-
ling pieces on any occasion, so thatj on the'
whole I made very little of this voyage. The
money was indeed as mere dirt to me, useless
and unprofitable; all which I would have freely
parted with for two nr three pair of English
shoes and stockings, things that for many yean
I had no^worn, except those which I had lately
taken off the feet of the unfortunate men I found
drowned in the wreck, yet not so good as Eng-
lish shoes, either for ease or service. I found
no gold in the seeond chest; so concluded that
what 1 took from the first belonged to an officer,
tho latter appearing to have a much inferior peri1
son for its owner. However, as despicable as:
tho money seemed, I likewise lugged it to my
cave, laying it up securely, as I did the rcsf
of my cargo, and intending to seek out, and ro.
torn it to the family of the unfortunate owner,
if ever I should return to Europe: and after I
had done all this, as there was nothing more:
aboard whieh I cotfld remove, I returned back
g 3
m
As my boat, rowing, or paddling Her along till
) came to my old harbour, where I carefully
laid her up, and so made the best of my way
to my ca'jtle. XVhon'! arrived tliere, every
tiling seemed safe and.quiet; so that now, my
only business was to repose lnyself after my
wonted manne/, and take care of my dom.es-
.tic affairs But though I might havqhved very
«asy, as waning for nothing absolutely need-
fai; yet still I w»s djok vigilant lifim usual,
.upon account of the jsavages, never going much
abroad; :or,; if I did*, it was to the east part of
the island, where 1 was well assured that the
savages ;iever cauu>, and where I might not be
t ron I lied to carry such a heavy load of weapons
for .wip defence, as J thought accessary to do
jt'I;livent the other way.. . :,\.t
e .T,wo years djfl. 1 live in this anxious condi-
tion, in. all jyhich. time, contrary to my former
resnAuii^ns, my . head was filled with nothing
but projects arid deigns jjow \ migljt escape
from this island j.and ,so.ra<jch were ray wansi
<Wing thoughts .hfinfe vporta rambling expedi,
ijon, tlmt.Jnul , 1 had the same boat that \ went
from S^le^,iR,! I *jj9«ld.bave ventured onoo more
to :the un.c^riajnty of the raging oceajj, ;v\ . ..
.• ^Iayirig,rreitirfd to njy {astk. after my late
vjjyage to'thp »hi», ojyl;bpat laid up arjd w-
e.ure<J, as.jisija],, and nly. condition the same
as before extent being jjicbor*. thought \\ hwt
as little soccasion for riches as the Indians of
Peru had fort gftld, before ljie.£panjards,erihie.
among th«ra,t. |ine ejtgul 'fft Marc^ ibeibg.^ja
', ^"

rainy season, in, the four and twentieth year ot
, my;solitude, 1 lay down to .sleep, very vyell hi
health, without distemper, pain, or uucommo;i
uueasin.ess either of body or mind; yet not-
withstanding, I could not compose myself to
sleep all the night long, All this tedious while,
it is impossible to express what innumerable
thoughts came into my head. I traced quite
over, the whole history of my life in miniature,
from my utmost remembrance of things till J
came to this island; and then proceeded to
examine etery action and passage that had
occurred .since I had taken possession of my
kingdom. In my Reflections upon the latter, [
was comparing the happy posture of my affairs
in the beginning of my reign, to this life of
anxiety, fear, and concern, since I had .disco-
vered lie print of a foot hi the sand; and that
while I continued without apprehension. I was
incapable of feeling the dread and terror I now
Sjuflered. 1 low thankful rather ought I to hayo
been for the knowledge of my danger,, since
tjio greatest happiness a man can be possessed.
,of, is to have suiiicient time to provide against
ii? How stupendous is the goodness of l'rovi
dence, which sets such narrow bounds to the
sight and knowledge of human nature, that
while men walk in the midst ql so many dan-
gers, 1hey are kept serene anil calm, by having
the; events of things hjd from their eyes, and
knowing nothing of those many dangers that
surround Iheiu. till perhaps they are dissipated
'an4 vanished away. m
%Mi. vA «•p iniif «.,* , .:.'! a yl•,i
110
Aboiii a year and a half after, one morning
early, I was very much surprized by seeing no
less than "five canoed all on shore together, on
my side of the island, and the savages that be-
longed to them all landed and out of liay sight.
Upon which, much dispirited and perplexed, I
lay btill in my castle; which, however, I put
in a proper posture fof an attack j and, having
formerly provided all that was necessary, was
soon ready to enter upon an engagement, should
they attempt it. Having waited for some time,
m}v impatient temper would let me bear it no
longer; !set my guns at the foot of my ladder;
andj as usual, ascended up to the top of the hill
at two stages, standing, however, in such a
manner, that my head did not appear above the
hill, so that they could not teasily perceive me:
and here, by the assistance of my perspective
gloss, I observed no less than thirty w number
around a fire, feasting upon what meat they
had dressed: how they cooked it, Or what it
was, I could not then perfectly tell; but they
were all dancing and capering about the flames;
rising many frightful and barbarous gestures.
But while, with a curious eye, I was behold-
ing these wretches, my spirits sunk within me;
when 1 perceived them drag two miserable crea-
tures from the boats, to act afresh the dread*
lul tragedy, as I supposed they had done be-
fore. It was not long before one of them fell
upon the ground, knocked down, as I suppose,
with a club or wooden swoid, for that was theii
manner: whih' h«b or three others went imme-
diately te wejJr. r%if^ig him opqa for their
117
cookery, and then fell to devour him as tliey
had done the former: while the last unhappy
captive was' loft by himself, till such time us
thoy wore ready lor him. The poor creature
looked round him with a sorrowful eye, trem.i
Wing at the thoughts of death; yet, seeing him.
self a little at liberty, nature, that very moment,
as it were, inspired him with hopes of life: lie
started away from them, and ran, with incredi-
ble swiftness, along the sands, directly to that
jiurt of the coast where my aneient and vener.,
able castle stood.
Yeu may well imagine I was dreadfully af-
frighted upon this occasion, when, as 1 thought,
they pursued him in a whole body, all running
towards my palace And now, indeed, I ex-
pected, that he would certainly fly to my grove
for protection. However, my spirits beginning
to recover, I still kept upon my guard; and I
now plainly perceived, there were hut three
men out of the number that pursued him, T
was infinitely pleused at the swiftness with
which the poor creature ran from his pursuers^
gaining so much ground upon them, that I
plainly perceived, could he thus hold out for
hulf an hour, there was not the least doubt but
he would save his life from the power of his
er.emies.
Between them and my castle, there was a
creek, tlie very same which I sailed into with
ail my effects from the wreck of the ship, on
the steep banks of which I very much feared
the poor victim would be taken, if he could
m
ijiOt swim for his escape: But soQnwxis I out of
pain for him, whoft I perceived lie made no-
thing of it, though at full tide, but, with an
intrepid courage, spurred on by the sense of
danger, he plunged into the flood, swimming
over in about thirty strokes, and then laading,
ran with foe same inprc(»ble strength and
^wiftness as before, When the three pursuers
came to the creek, two of tjvem, who, J per-
c<fijjed,could not swim, happily for themselves,
Returned to' their com.pany; wliile th(g iQfhpr,
with an equal courage, but much less ^wiltness,
attained the other side, as plough he was.re-
solved never to give over the pursuit. And
now or never, I thought was the tiruq for me to
procHre rne a;Servant, companion or assistant:
and earnestly did I hope that Providence might
pcrrnit nj0 to bo the instrument to says this, poor
Creature's life. I immediately descended my
two ladders with the greatest expedition; I tqolj.
ijp my two guns, which 1 said before were at
}he bottom of them: and; getting up again with
tbe,same haste towards tlje,l|ill, 1 made nearer
the. sea. t'(,fn a word, taking a shortcut down the
hill, 1 interposed between the pursuer and pur-
sued, hallooing aloud to the latter, who ventur-
ing to look back, was, no doubt, as much terri-
fied at me as at the enemy irom whom ho fled.
1 beckoned to him with my hand to return back,
and in the mean tjmo, advanced towards the
pursuer. I was very unwilling to fire, lest the
rest 3hould hear, though, at that distance, I
^ues|ion.cd whether they could or no t and,
126

bj tag out of sight of the smoke, they co*ld nut
easily have known what to make of it. The
ravage Mopped as if he bad been amazed:
when, advancing towards him, I could per-
ceive him take his bow from his back, and,
after fixing an arrow to it, preparing to shoot
at me, and, without dispute, he might have
lodged it in my breast; but in tb» necessnr
case for self-preservation, 1 immediately tirotl
and shot him dead, just as his hand Wo,s going
to draw the fatal string. All this while, the
savage who had fled before, stood still, and had
the satisfaction to see his enemy killed, as he
thought, who designed to take uway his life:
so «<rtrighted was he with the fire and noise of
i .« piece, that he stood as it were like loot's
» lie, fixed and immoveable, without either sense
<r motion. This obliged me to halloo to him
i.gain, making the pluinost signs I could to him
tj diaw nearer. 1 pereeiwd he understood
these tokens, by his approaching to me a little
way, when, as if afraid I should kill him too,
he stopped again. Several times did he advance,
; iul us often stop in this manner, till,'coming
more to my view, I perceived him trem'"
as if he was to undergo the same fate,
which, I looked upon him with a smilii _
teuance, and still beckoned to him; at length
he came close to me, and kneeled down, kissed
the ground, laid his head upon it, and taking
m j by the foot, set it upon his head; which as £
£ a token of swearing
.uderstood afterward?
1&K
to be n>y slave for ever. I lock hinT tip,'
and .toking ruueh of him, encouraged liitu iri'
the bost manner I could.
The greatest astonishment that my new ser-
vant conceived, was at the manner of killing
the savage at such a distance, without a bow
and arrow: and such was his longing desire to
know it, that he first pointed to the dead car-
case, and then made signs to me to grant him
leave to go to it. Upon which 1 bid him go,
and as well as I could, made him sensible I
granted his request. But when he came there,
how wonderiully was he struck with amaze-
ment! First, he turned it on One side, then on
another, wondering he could perceive no quan-
tity of blood, he bleeding inwardly: and after
sufficiently admiring the wound the bullet had
nmdo in the breast, he took up h's bow and'
arrows, and came back again; upon which I
turned to go away, making signs to him to
follow, lost the rest missing their compunion,
might come in pursuit of him, and this 1 found
he understood very well, by making me to
understand that his design was to bury it, that
it might not be seen; and which, by signs again,
] made him sensible I very much approved of.
Immediately, he fell to work, and never wan
grave digger more dexterous in the work than
ho was; for in an instant, as 1 might say, he
scraped ajargo hole in the sands with his hands,
sufficient to bury it in; there he dragged it,
and, without any ceremony, covered H over.
1 then called him away, and instead of carrying
him direetly to n»y castle firfk;v.Lcftnv<jyod
him . to lny.cave op the; %t^r, pajt. of the
fslwd. . ;,;;•,i J 1 i,;, .!i 4-,,' ,
.Weary and.faint, hungry, and thirsty,,iwn.
dpubtodly,nuist this poor ereaturej.be, .support-
ed chiefly by,tb,e vivacity,of spirit,,and uncnnj- .
noon transports of joy Uu$ Jh^s deliverance ocr .
casioned- Hcfe I gave bin* h/jjadpnd, a:hunch of'
raisins to eat, and:wate( to drink,.on .which
lie fed'^eiy fheer.fhh'y, ,to j his exceeding re-
fijeshmept,, ,| then madehiu^a.conveujept Lx^l,
with a parcel of rice straw, and .a blaulvet.upf)n ,
'it, (abedwljjch I used niyself soinetitnes) and
HQjntingi^tn, jt, made signs.for ljiui to jie
down to shjem.upoB; wljich tlje poor, .creature
went to take a welcome repose, r y,. .:; v .
Indeed he was.a very con ely, handsome,
young fellow, .extremely well made, with
straight Jong ljmbs, not . too large, tall, and
well shaped, and, as near a* I could reckon,
about twenty-six years of age. His counte-
nance bad nothing in it fierce or, surly, h"t
rather a sort of majesty in his face; and .
especially when he smjled, ho had .oil the,
sweetness of an European. His hair ,was not.
curled like wqol, ,as many of the blacks are,
but long apd black, with the most beautiful,
yet careless tresses spreading over his shoul-
ders. He had a very high and large forehead,
with a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in
his eyes, His skin was not so tawny as that
of the JVmcricans; but rather .of a Jight dun,
]?3

''live rolour, that had something agreeable in
It, raoHjjh not very easy to give a description
oh Ijis (ace was' round and plump, willi a
MiiaH nose, very different from the flatness of
the negroes, a pretty small niouth, thin lips, fine
teeth, very well set, and white as the driven
Wow. in a. word, such handsome features,
and e'.snet syinpictry jn every part, made mo
]?3
flian pi'iner. for a person fit less dignity as (
thought, eouid not, possess such grace and
accomplishments.
Ife had not, I think, slept above an hour,
when he awakened again, and while 1 was.
fuilklnj• niy goats hard %. out he runs from
the. cave towards me in my enclosure, and lay-
fbg himself down on the,ground in the lowest
prostration, made all the aulic gestures ima-
ginable, to express his thankfulness fo me for
Lehig his deliverer. lie laid down, his head
, ^gaiu upon the ground, close to my toot, aud
sci rtiy other foot upon, his head, as he had
flone before, making all the signs of subjection,
servitude, and submission imaginable, to let
me understand he would serve me as long as
Lis life endured. As I understood him in
many things, 1 niade him sensible I was very
well pleased with him; and, in a little time, I
twgan to speak to him, and tea,eh him how to
talk to nic again.
In the lirst place, I made him understand
his name was to be Friday, because it was upon
124
that day I gaved his life; I then taught him to
Hay Master,'which \ mado him sensiolo was to
be my name; I likewise taughti him to say yes
and no, and to know what they meant, 1 gave
Jiim some milk in an earthen pot, making hinf
view me while I drank it before Turn, and
Soaked my bread in it; I gave lam a cake of
bread, and caused him to soak it likewise, to
which he readily consented, making signs of the
greatest satisfaction imaginable.
All that night did [ keep him there; hut no
sooner did the morning lig|it appear, thau I
Ordered him to arise and come along with me,
with certain tokens that .t would give him soiim
clothes like mine, at which he seemed >,<, y
glad, being stark naked, without the ' leu t
Covering whatever. As we passed by tlie piano
where the man had been interred, my mail
pointed directly to his grave, showing mo tim
marks that ho had made to find it again, x^h'tJ
Hie to understand by signs, that we should dig
Mill up and devour him. At this I appeared
extremely displeased, expressed my utmost
ubhorrenco, as if I would vomit at tue appre-
hensions of it, beckoning wjth my hand to eomu
away, which he did with the greatest rev*.-
ronce and submission, Alter this, I conducted
liim to the top of the hill, to view if the rest
of the savages were yet remaining there; but
when I looked through Vny perspective glass,
I could see no appearance of them, nor of
their eanocs j so that it was very evident they
125
never minded tlielr depended companion wliom
we had slain; which if they had, they would
surely have searched for, or left ono boat
behind for him to follow, after he returned
ftom his pursuit.
Curiosity, and a desire of satisfaction, aril*
Mating me with courage to tee this scene of
Awrbarity, I took my man Friday with toe to
the place of their bloody entertainment. But
when I came there, I was struck with tho ut-
most horror at so dreadful a spectacle, whilst
Friday was no way concerned about it, being
ito driltrt in his turn one of these devourers. Her*
lay several human bones, there several pieces of
mangled flesh, half eaten, mangled and scorchw
ed, together with quantities of bloodj which, the
sun and wind had dried Up. As 1 was musing
on this dreadful sight, Friday took all the pains
he could, by particular signs, to mako me un.
derstand, that they had brought over four pri-
soners to feast upon, three of whom they had
eaten up, and that he was the fourth, pointing
to himself, that there having been a bloody
battle between them and his great king, in
the just defence of whom he was taken pri-
«oner, with many others; all of these were car-
ried off to different places to be devoured by
their conquerors; and that It was his fortune
to be brought hither by these wretches for tho
very same purpose, i .>'', *" , '">,•'"
After I was made sensible of these tilings, I
caused Friday to gather those horrid remains
126

jmd lay them together upon a heap, which I
ordered to be set on tire, and burnt them to
.ashes; my man, however, still retained the na-
ture of a cannibal, having a hankpring stomach
alter some of the flesh; but such an extreme
abhorrence did I express at the least appear-
ance of it, that he durst not but conceal it: tot
J made him very sensible, that if he attempted
p.ny such tiling, [ would certainly shoot him„ri;
This being done, I carried my man with me,
to my castle, and gave him a pair of linen
drawers, which 1 had taken out of the
poor gunner's chest before mentioned; and
which, with a bitle alteration, fitted him very
wejl; in the next place 1 made him a jerkin
(>$ goat skin, such as my skill was able to raa.
flage, and indeed I thought myself ihun a tole-
rable good tailor. , ] gave him also a cap,
which I made of a hare's skin, very couvenhwt
and fashionphle. Thus being clothed tolerably
well, nfy man was no l/?ss proud of his habit,
than 1 was at seeing iiim in jt. Indeed lie
went very. awkwardly at lirst, but by use, at
length he took to them very well.
My next cgnx;ern w;is, whore I sliould lod£t
him; and that 1 might do well by him,
,and yet bo perfectly easy myself, [ erected a
lent for him in tint vacant plane between my
two fortifications, in the inside of tlie last, and
the outside of the first; and as du re, was an
entrance or door into my cave, J made a for-
mal framed door-case; and a '1 <.<'r to open on
the inside; 1 barred it up in the nijjht
m
X.mc, .taking in rcy ladders too, so that, were
piy rain to prove (treacherous, there could
,bt no way to conic at me in the inside of my
* innermost wall, without making so much'noiso
in getting over, tliat ii must needs waken me;
for my first wall had now a complete roof over it
of Idngjpoles, spreading over niy tent, and leaning
up to the .side of the mountain, which was
again laid across with smaller sticks instead of
laths, and thajcljed over to a great thickness
with the rico straw, which w.as as strong as
reeds; and at the hole of the place, left on jmrT
pose to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed
a kind of a trap door, which if it had been
attempted on the outside, would not have
opened at all, but have fallen down, and made
a great noise: and as to my weapons, every
night I took them all to my bed side.
But there was no ocpasion for this precau-
tion; for surely never master )iad a more sin-
cere, faithful and loving servant than Friday
proved to me. Without passion, sullenness,
or design, perfectly obliging and engaging, his
affections, were as much tied to me, as those of
a child to his parents; and I fnjgfe venture t»
say, he would have laid down his life for the
faving of mipe, upon any occasion whatever.
And, indeed, the many testimonies he gave mo
of this, sufficiently convinced me that I had no
occasion to use all these precautions.
1 had not been above two or three days rc-
to my castle, when it became my chief
j oi Li'.. ',; '.i &wcflo)no...i

\28
design to bring Friday off from his horrid way
of feeding; and, to take from him that inhu-
man relish he by habit had' been accustofhed to i
thus T thought it my duty to lot him taste other
tlesh, which might the rather tempt him to the
name abhorrence, I so often expressed against
their ciiuel way of living. Upon wtildn;, otlo
morning I took him put with me, with an in-
tention to kill a kid emt of the flock, and bring
it home, and dress it As I was going, I per-
ceived a she-goat lying down in the shade, anfl
tWO' young kids sitting by her. Immedi-
ately I catched hold or my man Friday, and
bidding lihn stand still, and not strr, ,1 pre-
sented ray piece and shot due of the kids.
My poor servant, who had at a distance per-
ceived me kill his adversary, and yet <)id not
know by what means, or how it was done,
stood trembling and surprised, and looked so
amaaed, that I thought he* would have sunk
into the earth. He did not see the kid I
aimed at, or observe I had killed it, but ripped
up his wuisooat to see if he was not wounded,
thinking my resolution was tn kill him; for
coming to me, ho fell on bis knees, earnestly
pronouncing many things which I did not un-
derstand the meaning of; which, at' length I
perceived was, that 1 would not tuko away his
life. •'
Indeed so much compassion had I for this
creature, that it was with difficulty I refrained
.from tears. But, however, as another sort of
countenance was necessary, and to convince

liiui Umt t would do him no harm, 1
umiling, by the hand, then laughed at him, am
pointing to the kid which I had slain, made
aigns to him to feteh it; which accordingly he
did. No less curious was he in viewing how
the creature was lulled, than he was before in
beholding the Indian; which, while he was ad-
miring, I charged my gun again, and presently
perceived a great fowl liko a hawk, perching
upon a tree within shot; and, therefore, to let
Friday understand what I was going to do, I
called him to me again, pointing at the fowl,
which I found to be a parrot. I made him un-
derstand thai I would shoot and kill that bird;
accordingly I fired, and bado him look, when
immediately he saw the parrot fall down.
Again ho stood like one amazed, notwithstand-
ing all I had said to him: and the more con-
founded he was, because he did not porceivo
me put any thing in my gun. As for it in
particular, he would not so mueh as touch it
tor several days after; but would come and
communicate his thoughts to it, and talk to it,
as if the senseless piece had understood and
answered him ; all this I could perceive him
to do, when ho thought my back was turned,
the chief intent of which was, to desire it
not to kill him, as I afterwards came to
understand.
I never strove to prevent his admiration,
nor hinder him from the comical gestures he
used on such occasions; but when his
13C
him to run Jarid fetch the parrot that I hid
shot; which accordingly ho did, staying some?
time longer than usual, by leasoh that the bird
not being quite dead, had fluttered some way
farther from the place where she fell. In the
mea;. time, as he was looking for her, I took
the advantage of charging my grtn again, that
so I might bo ready for any other matt thai
offered; but nothing more occurred at the
time. So I brought home the kid, and the
same evening took off the skin, and divided the
etcrcase as weH as I cosld. Part of the flesh,
I stewed and boiled, in a pot I made for this
purpose. And then, spreading my table, I
sat down, giving my man some of it to eat, who
was wonderfully pleased, and seemed to like
it very well: but what was the most surprising
to him was to see me eat salt with it: upon
which he made mo understand, that tho salt
was very bad for me; when, putting a little
into his mouth, he seemed to nauseate it in such
a manner, as to spit and sputter at it, and
then washed his mouth with fresh water: but

for want of it, as he had done at it; yet
all this proved of'no signification to Friday;
and it was a long while before he could endure
any salt in his meat or broth, and even then
but a Small quantity.
Thus, having fed* him sufl
1#
was resolved to feast him with' a roastr*!

raon artifice which many of the people? .
England have J that is, to set two poles upon
each side of the fire, and one across on the top,
hanging the meat thereon with a string, arid
so turning it round continually, illf it was
sufficiently roasted: This practice canse'd great
admiration in my man Friday, being quite
Another way than that to which the savages
were accustomed. But when.he barrfb to taste
the Sweetness and tenderness of the flesh, he
expressed his entire satisfaction in many dif-
ferent ways. As I could not but understand
his meaning, you may be sure. I was as won-
derfully pleased, especially when he made it
also' very plain to nie, that ho. would never,
while he lived, eat man s flesh more.
It was now high time I should set my new'
servant ta work; so next day I put him to'
heat out some cVjrn, and sift it in the same
manner as I had done before. And really the
fellow.was very quick and handy in the execu-
tion of any thing I ordered. him to' go about.
I made him understand that it was to make'
bread for us to eat, and afterwards let hint
sve me bake it. In short, Ire did every thing
as I ordered hitn, in a little time, as well as I
could perform it myself.
Hut now, considering that I had two 1
133

should provide moro ground for my barvostj
and plant a larger quantity of com than 1
commonly used to do; upon which J marked
out a larger piece of land, fencing it in the
same manner as I had done before; in the
execution of which I must give Friday this
good word, that no man could work moro
handily, or with better will than he did} and
'When I mado him sensible that it was for
bread to serve him as well as mo, he then very
passionately made me understand, that ho
thought I had much more labour On his ac*
count, than I had for myself; and that no
pains or diligence should be wanting in him,
if I would but direct him in those works
wherein ho might proceed.
I must certainly own, that this was the most
pleasant year I ever had in the island; for
after some time, Friday began to talk pretty
well, and understood the names of those things
which I was want to call tor, and the places
where I used to send him. So that my long
silent tongiw, which had been so many years
unused, except when praying to God, or con-
versing with my Poll, now began to be occu-
pied, in teaching, and talking to my man
Friday; for indeed I had such a singular satis-
faction iu the fellow himself, so innocent did his
simple and unfeigned honesty appear more and
moro every day, that I really began pDtircly
to love him; and for his part 1 believe there*
was no love lost, and that his
AlGfo charmed by my exceeding jfindneisy
and his affections mote placed upon mo, than.
any other object whatsoever ariiong. his own-
countrymen^, n,i,.;; .... .
I once had a great desire to try if he'
had any hankering inclination to his own
country again; and by this time, having taught
hi(fl English so well, that hn could give me
fclerable answers to any question which I d<v
manded, 1 asked him, whother tflat nation to
Which he belonged ever conquered in battle?
This question made Friday smile, and to which:
Re answered, yes, yest,. tte always fiffht the bet-
ter; as much as to say, they always got the
better in fight. You say, said I, that you al-
ways fight the better; why then, Friday, how
came you to bo taken prisoner?'
Friday. But for all that my nation boat?
rtnioh.
Master. How,.say you, boat? if your na-
tion, beat them, how came you to be taken?
Friday. They moro many mans than my
ration in the place whcro me was, tliey take
one, two, three, and me; my nation much
©verbeat them in the yonder place where mc
no was, there my nation mans beat one, two,
three, great many.
Master. Then why did not your men re-
cover you from the hands of your enemies?
Friday. They run one, two, or three, and.
mo; tliey make all go into the canoe; my tui-
tion have no canoe tnat time.
Master Tis very well, Friday; but what
a
134
does your nation tlo with the .p'risofiefs they
take? Do they carry them away and eat
them as they have done? '; '•'.'' f
Friday. Yes, yes, my nation eat roans too-,
feat npyail.ti oi.--. .'i./:.; *. I.:. f«:; •
Maker; T«' what place lo they1 catry therri
to be devoured * '' :..''''
Friday. Go to other nations where they
134
Masttr. Do they bring thom hither?
Fridayi Yes, come over hither, come? over
other place. , . , .' ,' :t , ' .',,' ,
Master. And have you boen with them here,
Friday?
Friday. Yes, me been here, (pointing to the
northwest of the island,, being the side where
134
Thus having gotten what acct-.mt 1 could
from my man, I plainly understood, that he
had been as bad as any of the rest of the can-
nibals, having been formerly among the sa-
vages who used to come on shore on the
farthest part of the island, upon the same
bloody occasions as he was brought hither for:
and some time after, I carried him to that place
where ho pointed; and no sooner did he come
there, but he presently knew the ground, sig.
nifying to me that he was once there wheu
they ate up twenty men, two women and a
young child; but as he could not explain the
number in English, he did it by so many
stones in a row, making a sign to me to count
them. ', ', ', ;''.; "''',,' ,.)* .\m
My next question was, how far it was from
jtbe island to the shore, and whether canoes
were not often h>?t in the ocean? To which he
answered, there was no danger; that no ca-
noes were eve* lost; hut that after a little
ivay out to the sea, there was a strong eur^1
rent, and a wind always one way, in the afteri
nnon. This I thought at first to .be uo. more
than tho scte of tide, of gomg out or coming -
in; hut I afterwards understood it was pcea-'
sjoned by thesgreat drapght artd refluk of the
mighty river Oroonoko, in the inoiiihor gnl]>h
of which, I .imagined'my kingdom: lay; aha
that the land which I perceived fo ihe W. and
K. W. niustbeithe great island Trinidad, ori:
jthe north of the river. ';.' ,' '.'
Well, you may be pure, this knowledge,
which the imperfect information . of my.man
had led n.o to, was very comfortable lb me,
and made nip so curinus Ms 4o.auk him, how I
might depart.from this island, and get amongst
those white nien? He told , toe, Yea, Yes, I
might. go ttcp. cmioes. In two canoes';
tjioughl J, what does any maf moan:? AM',1
indeed it was a long .time before 'I understoj&dr
his meaning, which was, that jt must l*e a'large
boat, a* liig as tw^caboe)v,ia(bl« totear'With the'
waves',mud.not sb Uahjp to bu overwhelmed as.
My next question was, how far it was from
... IsbelUo'citrfera js;; jop!*tate of life hut wlirtt
may be hiippy. jf.people would but endeavour
for their part to make itsoi -; We not tHo
happiest man who has the most riches, but hq
136
ffchat.is content with what he hath. Before I
had my servant, I thought myself miserable
till I had him; and now that I had enjoyed the
happy benefits of him, I still complained, and
heggod a deliverance from a place of retire-
ment, ease, and plenty, where Providence in
*uch u signal manner had blessed me. In a
word, from this time I entertained some hopes,
that ono time or other I might find an oppor-
tunity to make my escape from this island,
and that this poor savago might be a great
furtherance thereto, u,.',•' . ~, ' ,'
I now began to instruct my servant, in the
saving knowledge of tho true Deity, in which
the, directions of God's holy Spirit assisted me:
Friday, said I, you must know, that before
this world was made, there was an Almighty
Power existing, by whoso power, all things
wore made, and whoso majesty shall have no
end. To be glorified and adored by beings of
a heavenly nature, hp created angels and arch-
angels, that is, glorified spirits resembling him-;
self to encompass his throne, eternally sing-
ing forth his praise, in the most heavenly
snunds and divine harmony^;."j'
I found it easy enough to'imprint the right
notions in his mind of God; for nature assisted
me in all my arguments, to show him plainly
tho necessity of a groat and overruling, govern-
ing power, of a secret directing Providence,
and of the equity and reasonableness of paying
adoration to ttir Creator. .': .;e i.
A ' :. .ii • .( nil 'C.t ., . ., .t :, J' . . i.i

I then entered inlo a long discourse with
him, upon the subject of the world's rodeuiji-
tion by the Saviour of it, apd the doctrine of
repentance preached from heaven, together
with an holy faith |n our blessed Redeemer
Jesus Christ.
JJy the constant application I made of the
Scriptures, as 1 read (hem to my man Friday,
T earnestly endeavoured to make Trim under-
stand every part of tljem as much as lay in my
power. lie also, op the other hand, by his
very serious questions and inquiries, made me
a much hotter .prolicient in Scripture know-
ledge, than I should have been by my qwn
private reading and'study',
You may well suppose, that, by the frequent
discourse we had together, my man and I
became most intimately acquainted, and thaj;
there was very little that I could say, but
what Friday understood; and indeed, he spoke
very fluently, though it was but brqfcen jing-
lish. J how too'k a particular pleasure in re-
lating all my advontures, especially those that
occurred since my being cast nn this island.
] made him understand that wonderful mys-
tery, as he conceived, of gunpowder and,
bullet, and taught him how to snoot. I also
presented to him a knife, which. jveasC(i h'm
exceedingly, making'him a belt, with a frog
hanging thereto,' like those in which we wear
hangers in England; and, instead of a hanger
'4 put in the frog, I gave him a hatchet, which,
138
was not only as good, but even 'a belter wea-
pon upon many occasions.
* [ next gave him a very particular descrip-
tion of my misfortune in being shipwrecked j
showing him, as near as I could, the pluee
where the ship lay, which bad been gone long
before; but I brought him to the ruins of my
boat, winch, before, my whole strength could
not move, but now was almost rotten and
fallen to pieces. I observed my man Friday to
view this boat with an uncommon curiosity;
which when be bad done, he stood pondering
a great while, and said nothing. At last, said
I, Friday, what makes you ponder so much?
He replied, O master, me see lik,e boat come to*
pfnee af wyi nation.
It was some time, indeed, before I under.:
stood what my man meant; but examining
strictly into \i, J plainly found, that such
another boat, resembling mine, had come la
the country wljere he dwelt; that is to say, by
his farther explanation, that the boat was
driven there through stress of weather.
Indeed Friday answered, my demands very
well, making everything plain to my undern
standing; but beyond pleasure was 1 satisfied
when ho i8ta' me with great warmth and ar-
dour, O master', me save white mansfrom drown;
upon which I immediately asked him, if there
were any white mans, as he called them, in the.
boat; Yes, yes, said he, the boat full, very full
of white mans. How many, Friday, said I,
Hereupon he numbered his fingers, and counted
.M!»
sjventcen. And when I asked him what oc-
came of them all, and' whether they lived or
not? lie replied, Yes, t/itufer, I hey all. lie?,
they be live among my nation. Th'w information
put fresh thoughts into my head, that the^o
must be the very men who before 1 concluded
, ad been swallowed up in the ocean, after they
had left their ship, that had atmiek upon tlij
rocks of my kingdom, and alter escaping the
fury of the deep, landed upon tho wild short',
and committed themselves to tho fury of tho
devouring Indians.
Tho manner of their cruelties to one an-
other, which consequently, as 1 thought, ruu/jt
bo acted with greater barbarity to strangers,
created in mo a great anxiety, and made me
still more curious to ask Friday concerning
them. He told me, he was sure they still lived
there, having resided among them above four
years, and that the savrges gave them victuals to
Ijve upon. 'But ptay, Friday, said 1, whence
proceeded all thjs good nature ttftd generosity?
flow came it to pass that they' did not till
and eat them, to plcaso their devouring appe-
tites; and occasion ao splendid an ernertain-
ment among them? No, ao, said Friday, they
not kill 'em, they make brother withem; by
which I understand there was a truce 'Qotwejn
them. And then I ha,d a more favourable
opinion of the Indians, upon Friday's uttering
the words: M;f nation t'other nation no eat
man's, but when man's make war fight: as
though ho had said, that Be.ljioi those of his
liO
kingdom, nor any other nations llia£ he knew
of, ever ate their fellow creatures, hut such
as their law of arms allowed to be devoured:
that is, those miserable captives, whose mis-
fortune it was to he made prisoners of war.
Some considerable time after, upon a very
pleasant day, in most serene weather,' my man
and 1 stood upon the top of a hill, on the
island, whence I had once before beheld the
continent of America. Lcould opt'tell imme-
diately what was {he matter: for suddenly
Friday fell a jumping and dancing, as if he
iad been mad; and upon my demanding the
reason of hisliehavour, Oj'ny, said'he, O glad!
ihere see my country, there my nation, there
white mans gather. Apd indeed such a raptu-
rous sense of pleasure appeared in his coun-
tenancei that his eyes had an uncommon
sparkling and brightness, and such a strange
eagerness, as if he had a longing desire to be
m his own country again. This made me not
po well 'satisfied with my man Friday as be-
fore; for by this appearance, I made no dis-
pute', bnf. that if he could get back thither
again, he would not only he unmindful of
what religion, 1 had taught him, but likewise
of the great obligation he owed me for his
wonderful deliverance: nay, that he woula!
not only inform his countrymen of me, hut
accompany hundreds of them to my kingdom;
gnd make me a miserable sacrifice, like those
unhappy wretches taken in battle.
HI
Indeed I was very much to blame to have
those cruel, ami unjust' suspicions, and mux
freely own I Vronged the poor creature very
mwh» who was of a quite contrary temper.'
And had ihe had that discerning acutene^s
-which many Europeans have, he would cer-
tainly have perceived my coldness and indif-
ference, and also have been very much con-
cerned upon that account.
As we were walking up the same hill
another day, when the weather was so' hazy
at! sea, that 1 could not perceive the conti-
nent; Friday, said I, don't you wish yourself
loboin y«ur own country, among your old
friends and, .acquaintances? Yes, said he,
me much 0 glad to be at my own nation.
And what would you do there Friday?
Would yon turn wild again, cat man's flesh
.aed bo savago as you wero formerly? No;
Ho, ( answered he, full ef concern, and shaking
Jhis head) Friday now trfl them to the good,
ftrW them pray God, tell them to eat corn,
I'fedd, cattle, Jlesh, milk, no tat man again:
But surely, replied,!, if you shouhl offer to do
all this, they will kill you'; and to rn&nifi/t their
contempt of such instruction, cut you up when
they have'done. He then put on a grave, vqt
innocent and smooth countenance, saying, N.d,
they no kill me, they willing love learn: that
is, that they would bo very willingto loam : add?
ing withall, that they had learned very tuuph
of the bcatded man's that came in the boat.
Will you, suid I, go back again, Friday?' Hb
142
sidled at that, and told mc that be could not
swim so far. But said I, I will wake a canoe
for you: Yes master, said he, me go if :ypu
go, me no go if you stay, I ,go, Friday!
why would you have them eat me up, and de-
vour your kind master? No, no„ said be, me
make them no eat master^ ,and me nuke them
much love you; that is, he would telj then}
how I hod slain his enemies, and thereby saved
his life, for which reason he wquld make them,
love me; and then be relafed to me, as well as
ho was able, bow exceedingly kind those of his,
nation were to the white or bearded men, as he
Called them, who in their great calamity, were,
drven into their country.
It was from this tirfie, indeed, I had strong
Inclinations to yenjture over, and use my utmost
efforts, if possible, to join with these white
bearded mqn, who undoubtedly were .Spaniards
or Portuguese; for, thought I, it must b$
certainly a better and safer way, to esqape
when there is a good company, than. for .m&
alone, from an island forjy miles off th.e shore,
and without any assistance! Some days,.aftpr;
Friday and I being at work, as usual, at tlie
same time diverting oursejyes with, various,
discourses, J' told'him [ had q. Ijoat whiol*
I would bestow upon him, whenever ' he
pleased to return to his n,wn. nation'; ,and ,^
convince him of the truth, l of what {.said,
jl took him with me to, tiro other side of the
lsland, where my frigate lay, and then taking
iy from under water ( for 1 always kept ,it
143
sunk for' fear of ii discovery) we both Went
into it to see bow it would manage such ail
expedition.
'And really never could any one be more
dexterous in rowing than my faithful servant,
mliking the boat go as fast again as I could.
Well, now, Friday, said I, shall we now go to'
your much desired nation? But, instead of'
meeting vrith that eheerfnlness I expected, he'
looked very dull and melancholy at my saying
so; which indeed at first surprised me, till he'
made me sensible, that his concern was about
the boat's being too small to go so far a voy-
age. Upon which, I let him understand I had
a much bigger; and, accordingly the next day
wont to the place^ where the first boat lay,
which I had made, when all the strength I
bad, or art I could use, failed mo in my at-'
tempt to get it into the water: but now it having
lain in the sun two and twenty years, and no'
care being taken of it all that while, it became
in a manner rottfn. My man teld me, that
such a boat would do very well for the pur-'
pose, sufficient to carry enough vitlle, dringt
Oread, for that was his manner of talking. In?
short, my mind being strongly fixed upon my
design of going over with him to the conti-
nent, I very plainly told him, that we Would
both go and make a boat full as big, and more
proportionable than that, wherein he might
safely return. to Iris own nation: for it occurred
to me, that most probably his great wis.li for a
'larger boat was altogether seltwh, and that
14*'
piovided he could himself return to his own.'
country, he cared but little what became of rno.
Go your way, added f, since you desire it,
and leavo mo alone by myself, as I wa» before
I saved your life.
Never was any creature more thunderstruck,
than Friday was at these words. Go me away,'
leave master away, said he, after .a long silence,
no, ho, Friday die, Friday live not master
gone; as though be had said, 1 neither can nor
Will live, if my master sends me from liim. Fri-
day felktowurds me the greatest gratitude, and
the most sincere love; ho found me uot only
his deliverer, but his preserver and comforter .r
not a severe and cruel tyrant, but a kind, lov-
ing, and affuble friend. lie wanted for no
munnor of sustenance; and when he was ill,
or out of order, I was his physician, not only
for his body, but his soul; and therefore no
wonder was it, that such an irmocent creature,
long sinco divested of his former natural cruelty,
should have an uncommon concern at so cruel,
a separation from me, which pierced him'to the
very soul, and made him desire even to die,
rather thnn live without mo.
After I hud told Friday, in a very careless
meaner, that ho should bo at his liberty as
»oon as the boat was made, the languugo of.
his eyes expressed all imaginable confusion;
whtn, immediately running to one of his
Lalcheis, which ho used to wear as a defensive
weapon, he gives it into my hand, with a heart
so full, Uiut he could Scarcely speak. Friday,.
145
said 1, what is it you mean? What must I do
'with this? Only kill Friday, said he, Friday
care not live long. But what must I kill you
for, replied I again. Ah, dear master, what
made you Friday save from eat a me up, so
keep long Friday, make Friday love God, and
now Friday send away, never see Friday more.
And while he spoke thus, the tears ran down
his eheeks in Such a plentiful manner, that I
had much ado to refrain from weeping also,
when I beheld the poor creature's affection: so
that I was forced to comfort him in the best
manner I could, which I did, by telling him,
if he was content to abide with me, I should be
ever willing to keep him.
After Friday's grief was somewhat abated^
more fully to convinco me of his affection? he
said, O master, me not care to he in my nation
leave you here, me desire nation learn good,
that's all; meaping that his desire was for the
conversion of that barbarous people; and that
he wished me to go with bim. And indeed,
I began to desire to go also, from my late
discourse with Friday about these seventeen
white bearded men, that had been driven upon
the Barbarian coast; whom I designed to join,
as the only means to further our escape. To
which intent, my man and I went to search for
a proper tree to fell, whereof we might make
,a perigua or canoe, to undertake the voyage;
and, indeed, We were not long in finding one*
fit for our purpose,. there being onough of
wood in the island to have built a fleet of large
I
140
•
vessels, but the thing we principally wanted),
was, to get one bo near the water, that we might
launch it after it was finished, and not commit
se great a mistake as I had done once before.
Well, after a great search for what was best
and most convenient, Friday, at last, whose.
judgment in such affairs was much superior to
mine, pitches upon a kind of wood the most
fitting for it. But though my man exceeded
me in the knowledge of the most proper tree
3'et I showed him a much better and cleaner
way to make a canoe than ever he knew before:
for he was for burning the hollow op cavity of
the tree, in order to make this boat; but !, then
told him how we might do it with tools, teach-
ing him at the same time how to uso them,
.which indeed he did very dexterously; so that
in a month's time we finished it, making it
very handsome, by cutting. the outside in the
true shape of a boat. After this*, it took us a.
full fortnight before we could get hen into the
waten, which wo did, as it were, inch by inch,
upon great rollers: but when she was in, she
would have carried twenty men, with all the.
ease imaginable.
As I was very well pleased, you may be.
sure, at the launching of this man of war of
mine, I was no less amazed to behold with what
dexterity my man could manage her, turn
her, ana paddle her along. Well, Friday,
sail I, what do you think of it now? Do
you think this will carry us ovtfr? Yes, master.
147
«;akl ho, we venture over well, though great Mote
wind. But my design was yet farther, which
bo was insensible of; and that to make a mast
and a sail, and provide her with an anchor
and cahle. As to a mast, that was no difficult
thing at all to procure: so fixing upon a
straight young cedar tree, which 1 found near
the place, great plenty of it abounding in the
island; and setting Friday to cut it down, I
gave him particular directions how to Shape
and order it; but as to the sail, that I managed
myself. 1 very well knew I had some old ones,
or pieces of sails enough, which had lain six
and twenty years by me; but not being careful
to preserve them, as thinking 1 should have no
occasion to use them any more, when I cume
to look over them, I found them almost all
rotten, except two; and with these I went to
work, and after a great deal of pains and awk-
ward tedious stitching for want of needles, at
length I finished a three-cornered ugly thing,
like that we call in England, a shoulder of
mutton sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and
a small sprit at the top, like theso which our
long-boats use, and which I very well knew
how to manage; especially since it was like
that which I had in my patron's fishing boat,
when with my boy Xury, I made my escape
from the barbarian shore.
It was nearly two months, I think, before I
completed this work, that is, the, rigging, and
fitting my mast and sails; and indeed they
were nicely done, having made a small stay,
i 2
148
ami.a sail, or foresail to it, fo assWt, if WW
should tnm to the windward; and, which warn
still more, I fixed a rudder to the stern of rter,.
io steer with; and though I was hut a very
indifferent shipwright, yet, as I was sensible
of the great usefulness and absolute necessity
of a thing like this, I applied myself to it with
such a constant application, that at last I ac-
complished my design; but what with the many
dull contrivances I had about it, and the failure
of many things, it cost me as much pains in
ordering, as in making the boat. ., Besides,
when all this was done, I had my man to
teach what belonged . to ' its navigation; . for
though he very well understood how to paddle
a canoe alone, he was en utter stranger to a
sail and a rudder, and was amazed when be
saw me work the boat to and again in the sen,
by them, and how the sail jibbed and rilled
this way or that way, as the course we sailed
changed. After some timo, and a little use,
1 made all these things very familiar to him,
so that he became an'expert sailor, except in
relation to tho compass, and that I could maka
him understand but little of. But as it hap-
pened, there was seldom occasion for it, there
being but little cloudy weather, and scarcely
any fog in those parts; the stars were always
visible in the night, and the shore by day, ex-
cept in the rainy season, which confined every
one to his habitation? Thus entered into tha
seven-and-twentieth year of my reign or
130
captivity, which you please, (the last tlrfee of
which, blessed with the company of my'man
Friday, ought not to be reckoned ;) 1 kept the
anniversary of my landing here with the nme
thankfulness to God for his tender mercies, as I
bad done before; and certainly, as 1 had great
cause for thankful acknowledgment for my
deliverance at first, I had much greater now
for such singular and additional testimonies of
the care of Providence over me, in, all my dis-
tresses of both body and mind, and the great
hopes I had~of being effectually and speedily
delivered; tor I had a strong hope, that I
should not be another year in this island. Hut,
however, I st(U continued on with iny bus.
Sjandry, digging, planting, and fencing, as
usual: gathering and curing ray grapes, and
doing all other tilings that were necessary.
And now the rainy season beginning to
come on, obliged me to keep the longer within
doors; but before this, I brought nay new ves-
sel into the creek, where I had landed my
rafts from the ship, so wo waited for the months
of November and December, in which I de-
uigned to venture over tljo ocean.:'
No sooner did the seasonable weather begin
U draw near, but so much wus I elevated
with this new designed adventure, that I daily
prepared for the voyage. The first thing I
thought on was to lay by a certain quantity of
provisions, as a anllicient'store for such,an
expedition, intending in a weelc or a fortnight's
151
,time.io open the dock, and launch out "the
boat fbr that purpose. But one morning as £
was very busy upon something necessary for
this occasion, I called Friday to me, and bid
him to goto the seashore, and see if he could
'ifind a turtle or tortoise, a thing which we com-
monly had once a week, as much upon account
of the eggs, as for the sake of the flesh. He
'had not been long gone, when he came running
back, as though he was pursued for life, and
as it were flew over my outer wall, er fence,
like one that felt not the groend, or srteps he
set his feet on; before I had time to inquire
'the reason of his precipitation, he cries out,
O dear master, O sorrow J sorrow/ Bad!
0 bad J Why what's the matter, Friday ? said
f. O yonder, yonder, said he, there be one,
imo, three canoes! two, three.
Surely, {thought I.) there must be six, by my
man's way of reckonings but on a stricter in-
quiry, I found there were but three. Well,
Friday, said L, don't be terrified. I warrant
you wo will defend ourselves against them.—
Hut though I comforted him in the best manner
1 could, the poor creature trembled so, that 1
scarcely knew what to do with him: O master,
said he, they come look Friday, cut pieces,
Friday, cut a me up.
Why, Friday, said I, they will e«t me up as
well as you, and my danger is as great as
your's. But since it is so, wo must rosplve to
light for our lives. What say you? Canyoa
i 4
light, Friday? Yes, said he, very faintly, nw
fthoot, me kill what lean, but there come great
many number. That's no matter, said I again,
our guns will terrify those that we do not kill;
1 am very willing tn stand by you to the last
drop of my blood. ,
Now, tell me, if you will do the like by me,
and qbey my orders in whatsoever I command?
Friday then answered, O master, me lose life
for you, me die when you bid die. Thus con;
eluding all questions concerning his fidelity,
J ordered him to take the two fowling piece?,
which we always carried, and load them with
large swan shot, as big as small pistol bullets;
then I tonk four muskets and loaded them with
two slugs, and five small bullets each; charging
my two pistols each with a brace .: I hung my
great sword, as customary, naked to my side,
and gave Friday his hatchet, as a most excel-
lent weapon for defcrfce.
Thus prepared, I took my perspective glass,
and went up to the side of the hill, to see what
I could discover; and I perceived very soon
by my glass, that thnre were one and twenty
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes, and
their chief concern seemed to be the trium-
phant banquet upon the thrpe poor human
bodies, a thing which by this time I had ob-
served, was very common with them. Upon
which I called to Friday: and shewing him a
great tree, that wo? just at the corner of the
wood, near.whicji they were, 1 ordered him to
153
repair thither, and bring mo word, if he could
plainly perceive their actions; accordingly, ho
did as 1 commanded him, and came back with
this melancholy story, that they were all about
their fire, eating the flesh of one of their pri-
soners; and that another lay bound upon the
sand, a little distant from them, whom they de.
signed for their next sacrifice; and this ho
told mej was not one of their nation, but one
of those very beardy men, who was driven by
a storm into their country, and whom he had
so often spoken to mo about. You may be
sure, that upon hearing this, my soul was
ready to sink within me: when ascending up
into a tree, 1 saw plainly, by my gloss, a white
man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with
his Lends tied with Hags or things resembling
rushes, being covered with clothes, and seem-
ing to lie an European. Prom the tree where I
took this prospect, I perceived another tree,
and a thicket beyond it, about fifty yards
uearer to them than where I was, which, by
taking a small circle round, I might come at
undiscovered, and then I should bo within half
a shot of these devourors. I therefore got
iHihind some bushes, which held, all the way
till I came to tlje other tree; and then I as-
cended to a little rising ground, not above
eighteen yards distance, and there I had a full
view of these creatures, and could perceive all
titan actions.
fcach a. sight did then appear, as obliged
I 5 . '. -
154
me not to lose a moment's time. No less than
ninoteen of Uiese cruel wretches bat upon the
ground, close huddled together, expressing nil
the delight imaginable at so barbarous an en-
tertainment; and they had just sent the other
two to murder this poor unhappy Christian,
and bring him limb by limb to their lire; for
they were then just going to untie the hands
from his feet. Hereupon, immediately turning
to my man, Now, Friday, said li mind what
1 say, fail in nothing, but do exactly as you
see me do. All which he promising to per-
form, I set down one of my muskets, and the
fowling-piece upon the ground, and F/fVtaydid
the same by hisj and with the other musket
1 took my aim at one of the savages, bid-
ding him to do the like: Are you ready,
said 1; Yes, mauler, said he, why then tire
at them, said I; and at that very moment I
gave tire likewise.'
I jet not the reader suppose that I did this
without concern. Shocked at the barbarity of
thus eating their fellow-creatures, 1 still re-
flected that it was owing to the darkness of
their minds, and that any execution. I and my
man Friday made among them, was sending
human souls to eternity; at the same time I
could not conceal from myself, that it was
necessary, not only lor our safety, but tor the
, accomplishment of my object, to show U)em
the effect of our fire-arms, and tlms to terrify
them from resistance.
155
I only wounded one mortaily; but my man
Friday, taking his aim much better than I had,
killed two. You may be sure they were in a
dreadful consternation, at such an unexpected
disaster; and those who had yet escaped our
penetrating shot, immediately jumped upon
their feet, but were in such a confusion, that
they knew not which way to run or look; not
knowing from whence their destruction came.
Now, Friday, said I, lay down your piece, and
take up the musket and follow me. He did
so, with great courage, when, showing our-
selves to the savages, we gave a great shoat,
and made directly to the poor victim, who
would have been sacrificed, had not our first
fire obliged the butchers, with all the others,
whom our shot had not disabled,' to jump into
one of thnir canoes. By my order, Friday
fired at them, in order to complete their con-
sternation; and, for a moment, 1 thought he
had killed them all, for tb«.y instantly fell to
the bottom of their boat; they soon, however,
with the exception of him whom the ball struck,
stood up, ami used their paddles with such
effect, that they were quickly out of our reach.
In the mean time, I cut the flags that tied the
hands and feet of the poor creature, and lifting
him up, asked him, in the Portuguese tongue,
What he was? he answered me in Latin,
Chrislianus: but so very weak and faint, that
he could scarcely stand or speak. And I next
asked him what countryman he wag? He
said Espaniola, and then uttered all thq thapk-
fulness imaginable for his deliverance. Signior
(said I, with as much Spanish as I was master
of,) let us talk afterwards, but fight now; here,
take this sword and pistol and do what you
can; for at this time I thought the savages
would return. I ordered Friday to run for
the guns we had left at the tree, (fortunately,
however, there was no 6ccasion to use them,)
which he brought to me with great swiftness,
and then I gavo him my musket, while I loaded
the rest.
The savages in the canoe worked very bard
to get out of our reach, and Friday was as
eager in pursuing them, and, indeed, I was
no less anxious about their escape, Jest, after
the news had been carried to their people,
they should return in multitudes, and. destroy
us.. So being resolved to pursue them, I
jumped into one of their canoes, and bid Fri-
, day follow me; but no sooner was I in, than,
to rnj surprise, I found another poor creature,
bound hand and foot for the slaughtor, just
as the Spaniard had been, with very littlo life
in him. Immediately 1 unbound him, and
would have helped him up; but he could nei-
ther stand nor speak, but groaned so piteously,
as thinking he was unbound in ordor to be
slain. Hereupon I bid Friday speak to hirii,
and tell him of his. deliverance; when pulling
but nly bottle, I made the poor wretch drink
a little, which, with the joyful cows he ha4
13?
received, so revived his heart, that, he sat up
in the boat. As soon as Friday began to hear
him speak, and look more fully in his face, it
would have moved any one to tears to perceive
his uncommon transports of joy; for he kissed,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laugbedf
hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung, then
cried again, wrung his hands, beat his face
and head, then sung and jumped about again,
like a.distracted croature: so that it was a
great while before I could make him speak to
me, or tell me what was the matter with him;
but when bo came to the liberty of his speech,
at last he told me it was his father.
Here, indeed, I was infinitely moved to see
the dutiful and tender affection which this poor
savage 'had to his aged parent. He' would sit *
down by him in the boat, open his breast, and
hold his father's head close to his bosom, half
an hour together, to cherish him; then he
took hi* arms and ankjes, which were, stiff and
numbed, with binding, and chafed and rubbed
them with bis hands; by whiph means, per-
ceiving what the case was, 1 gave him some
jrum, which proved of great benefit to him.
While we were busy in this action, the
savages had gotten almost out of sight; and
, happy it was we did not pursue them :. for
there arose from the north-west, which con-
tinued all night long, such a violent storm, that
I could not suppose otherwise but that they
vveje all drowned. After this, I .colled Friday
138
to tnc, and asked him,, if he had given his fa-
ther any bread? He shook his head, and said,
None, not one bit, me eat a up all; so I gave
him a cake of bread out of a little pouch I car-
lied for this end. 1 likewise gave him two or
three bunches of raisins for his father.
Away he then runs out of the boat as if ho .
was bewitched, with such an extraordinary
swiftness, that he was out of sight, as it were,
in an instant; but, at his return, f perceived
him slacken his pace, because he had some-
thing in his hand. And this I found to be, as
he approached nearer, an earthen jug with
some water for his father,, with two more cakes
of bread, which he delivered into my hands.
Being very thirsty myself, I drank some of the
water, of which when his father had drunk
sufficiently, it more revived his spirits than all
the rum I had given him.
I then called Friday tp me, and ordered him
to carry the .Spaniard one of the cakes, and
some water, who was reposing himself upon a
green place under the shade of a true, but so
weak, that though he exerted himself, he could
not stand upon his feet. Upon which. I ordered
Friday to rub and bathe his ankles with rum, as
he had done his father's. But every minute he
was employed in this, he would cast his eye*
towards the boat, where he left his father
sitting; who suddenly disappearing, he flew
like lightning tp him, and finding he only laid
himself down to ease his limbs, he returned
)5'J
hack to mc presently, and then I spoke to the
)5'J
to the boat in order to be conveyed to my
dwelling, where I would take care of him.
Upon which, Friday took him upon his back,
fond so carried him to the canoe, setting him
close by his father; and presently stepping out
again, launched the boat off, and paddled it
along the shore faster than I could walk, though
tlie wind 'blew very hard too; and having
brought them safe to the creek, away he runs
to feU;h the other canoe, which he brought to
the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land;
then wafting me over, he took our new guests
out of the boat; but so weak were they, that
I was forced to make a kind of a hand-barrow;
and when I came to my castle, not being wil-
ling to make an entrance into my wall, we
made them a handsome tent, covered with old
sails, and boughs of trees, making two good
beds of rico straw, with blankets to lie upon
and cover them. Thus, like an absolute king,
over subjects who owed their lives to me, I
thought myself very considerable.
To get provisions for my poor wf ak subjects,
. I ordered Friday to kill me an yearling goat;
which when he had done, I cut off the hinder
quarters, and chopping it into small pieces,
boiled it and stewed it, putting barley and rica
into the broth. This I carried into their tent,
set a tpble, dined with them myself, and en-
eodrage'd them. Friday was my interpreter to
iep ,
h}e father, and indeed to the Spaniard too,
who spoke the language of the salvages pretty
well. After dinner, I ordered Friday to fetcti
home all our arms fronl the field of battle, and
the next day to bury the dead bodies, which
he did accordingly.
And now 1 made Friday inquire of his
father, whether he thought those savages had
escaped the late storm in their canoe ; and if
so, whether they would not return with a force
too great for us to resist? He answered, that
he thought it impossible they could outlive the
storm: or If they were driven southwardly,
they would come to a land where they would
as certainly be devoured, as if they were
dlowned in the sea. And suppose they had
attaiined their own country, the strangeness of
their fatal and bloody attack, would make thorn
tell their people, that the rest of them were
killed by thunder and lightning, not by the
hand of man, but by two heavenly spirits
( meaning Friday and me) who wero s«nt from
above to destroy them. And this, ho said,
he knew, because he heard them say the same
to one another. And indeed he was in the
right on't, for I have heard since, that these
very men gave out, that whoever went to that
enchanted island, would be destroyed by lire
from the gods.
No canoes appoaring some time after, as I
expected, my apprehensions ceased; instead
of which my former thoughts of a voyage toot
161
fiaeit place, especially when Friday's father as-
sured me I should have good usage in his nation.
As to tlie Spaniard, ho told me that sixteen more
of his countrymen, and Portuguese, who had
been shipwrecked, made their escape thither;
that though they were in union with the
savages, yet they were very miserable for want
of provisions und other necessaries. When I
asked him about the parjticulars of this voyage,
he answered, that their ship was bound from
Rio de la Plata tp the Haoqnnah; that when
the ship was lost, only five men perished in the
ocean j the rest having saved themselves in the
boat, were now landed on the main continent.
And what do they intend tp do thefe? 6aid I.
lie replied, they had concerted measures to
escape by building a vessel, but that they had
neither te-els nor provisions, so that all their
designs came tp nothing. Supposing ( said I)
I should make a proposal, and invite theni
)iere, would they not carry me prisoner, to
New Spain? He answered no; for ho knew
them to be such honest men, as would scorn to
act with such inhuman baseness to their deli-
verer; that if I pleased, ho and the old savage
would go over to them, talk with them about it,
and bring me an answer: that they should all
swear fidelity to me as thoir leader, upon the
holy sacrament, and, for his part, he would not
nnly do the same, but stianu by me to the last
drop of his blood, should there be occasion.
These solenjn assurances qjado me jresolve (o
162
grant them: eliof, and to send Ihese two met
for that purpose; but when every tiling was
aready, the Spaniard raised an objection, which
,carried a great deal of weight in it: You know,
Sir, said he, that kavittg been %«me time with
you, I cannot but be sensible of your stock of
rice and corn, sufficient, perhaps, for us at pre.
sent, but not for them, should they come over
presently , much less to victual a vessel for
<in intended voyage. And therefore, my ad.
nice is, lo wait another harvest, and in the
mean time, cultivate and improve some more
land, whereby we may h&ve plenty of provi-
sions, in order to execute our design.
This advice of the Spaniard's I approved
«xtreruely; and 60 satisfied was I of his fidelity,
that I esteemed him ever alter. And thus
we all four went to work u^ion some more
land, and against seed-time, we had gotten so
rnuch cured, and trimmed up, sufficient to sow
22 bushels of barley on, and 16 jars of rice,
which was in short all the seed we had to spare.
As we were four in number, and by this timfe
all in good health, we feared not an hundred
of Indians, should they venture to attack ui,;
and while the corn was growing, I) pitched
upon some trees, fit to build us a large vessel,
in case the Spaniards came over: which being
marked, I ordered Friday and his father to cut
them down, appointing the Spaniard, who was
now my privy counsellor, to oversee and direct
(the work. I likewise cncrcascd my flocks of
163
goats, by shooting the wild dams, and bring-
ing home their kids to my enclosure; nor did
1 neglect tho grape season, but cured them as
usual, though I had such a quantity now,.as
would have filled 80 barrels with raisins.
And thus all of us being employed, they in
working, and I in providing for them, till har-
vest came, God Almighty blessed the encrease
of it so much, that from twenty-two bushels
of barley, we threshed oat two hundred and
twenty, and the like quantity of rice, suffi-
cient to victual a ship fit to carry me and all
the Spaniards to any part of America.
Thus the principal object being answered,
by a sufficient stock of provisions, I sent my
two ambassadors over to the main land, with a
regal authority to administer the oath of alle-
giance and fidelity, and have an instrument
signed under their hands, though I never asked
whether they had pen, ink, or paper; when
giving each of them a musket, with eight
charges of powder and ball, and provisions
enough for eight days, they sailed away with a
fair gale, on a day when tho moon was at the full.
Scarcely a fortnight had passed over my
bead, hut impatient for their return, I laid me
down to sleep ono' morning, when a strange
accidont happened, which was ushered in by
my man's coming running to mo, and calling
wloud, Master, master, they are come, they are
come. Upon which, not dreaming of any dan-
ger, out I jump from my bed, put on my
164
.clothes, and hurried through my fiitio grove j
when looking towards the sea. I perceived 4
boat, about a league and a half distant, stand-
ing in for the shore, with tire wind fair; I
saw they did not conjo from the side where
,the land lay on, but from the southernmost
.end of the island. So these being none of
the people we wanted, I ordered Friday to li*
StiHi till such time as I came down from the
mountain, which, with my ladder I now as-
fended, in order to discover more fully what
they' were; and now, with the help qI my
perspective glass, I plainly perceived an Eng-
lish ship, which I concluded it to be, by the
fashion 0/ }ts long boat; and which filled me
with such uncommon transports of joy, thai I
cannot toll how to describe them} and yet
some apprehenxiprm was mingled with my joy,
lest any tiling should occur to make this event
different from what I hoped. I resolved there-
fore to bo on my guard.
Not long it !*Ttt8, before I perceived tlie boat
,to approacn the shore, as though they looked
for a place where they might conveniently land;
and at last they .ran their boat on the shore
upon (hp beach, about half a mile distance;
which proved so much the happier for me, since,
had they come into the creek, tlioy had landed
just at my door,, and might not only have
forced me out of my castle, but plundered me
of all I had in the world. Now I was fully
convinced they were all Englishmen, three qt
165
Whom wore unarmed and bound; vvlww imrr/e*
diately, the first four or five leaped on shorey
and took those three out of the boat as prison-
ers; oho of whom I could perceive, used ther
most passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction
find despair, while the others in a lesser degree,
showed abundance of concern.
Not knowing tho meaning of this,1 beckoned
to Friday, who waa below, to ascend the moun.
tain, and likewise view this sight. O masler^
said ho to me, you see English mans eat pri-
soners as well as Savage mans. And do yon
Think they will eat them, Friday? said I. Yes,
Said Friday, tkey eat a all up. No, no. said \>
Friday, I am much more concerned lest they
murder them; but as for eating them up, that
I am sure they will.never do.
And now I not only lamented my misfor-
tune in not having tho Spaniard and Savage
with me, but also that I could not come within
shot of thom unperceived, (they having no fire-
arms among them) and save these three men,
whom I thought they were going to kill with
their swords. But some comfort it was to me,
that I perceived thoy were set at liberty to go
whero they, pleased, the rascally soamen scat-
tering about as though they had a mind to sea
the place: and so long did they negligently
ramble, that the tide had ebbed so low, as to
leave tho boat aground. Nor were the two>
men that were in her more circumspect. for
having drunk a little too much liquor, they fell
16$
fast asleep; but one of them waking before ffi«
other, and perceiving the boat too fast aground
for his strength. to move it, he hallooed out to
the rest, who made all possible expedition to
come to him; but, as Providence ordered it, all
their force was ineffectual to launch her, when
I could hear them, speak to one another, Why,
let her alone, Jock, can't yer she'll float next
tide: by which words I was fully convinced
they were my own countrymen. During this
time I never stirred from my concealment, be-
fog fully sensible it could be no less than ten
hours before the boat would be afloat, and then
it would be so dark, that they could not easily
perceive me, by which means I should be at
more liberty to hear their talk, and observe all
their motions; not but that I prepared for my
defence i yet as I had another sort «f enemy to
combat with, I acted with more caution. I
took two fusees on my shoulder, and gave Fri-
day three muskets; besides my formidable
goat skin, and monstrous cap, made me look
both fierce and terrible, especially when. two
pistols were stuck in my belt, and my naked
»word was hanging by my side.
The three poor distressed creatures, too anx-
ious to get any repose, were, however, seated
o.nder the shade of a great tree, about a quar-
ter of a mile from me.
Upon which, without any more ado, I ap-
proached towards them, with my man following
behind me, and, before I was perceived, I
called aloud to them in Spanish, what we ye,.
gentlemen.
At these words they started up in great con*
fusion, when they beheld the strange figure I
made ; tbey returned no answer, but seemed
as if they would fly fromme: Gentlemen, ( said
I in English,.) don't be afraid, perhaps you
have <t friend nearer than you expect. He
must be from Heaven, said one of them,
gravely pulling off his hat, for we are past
all help in.this world. All help is from Hear.
ven, said, I, but Sir, as I liave perceived every
action between you and these brutes since your
landing.,. only inform me how to assist yoit,.
and I wilt do it to the utmost of my power.
Am I talking with God of man?' said. he, iu
melting tears. Are you of human, kind, or an
angel? Sir, said i, Piy poor habit will tell
youy Loan a man and an Englishman, willing
to assist you, having but this servant only ..
here are. arms and ammunition: tell freely
your .condition, can we save you? The story,
said he, is to long, to relate,.since our butchers,
are so near: but, Sir, I was master of that ship,
my men have mutinied, and it is ati a favour
they have put my mate, this passenger, and me,
on shore without murdering us, though we ex-
pect nothing but perishing here. Are your
enemies gone? said I. No, replied he, ( point-
ing to a thicket,) there they lie; while my heart
trembles, lost* having seen and heard us, they
should murder us all. Have tliey fire-arms ¥
108
said I: They have but Wo pieces, said hcf
one of which is left in the boat. He also
told me, there wore two enormous villains
amongst them, that were the authors of this
mutiny, who, if they were killed or seized,
it might induce the rest to return to their obe-
dience.
. When he had given me all the satisfaction I
could desire, I gave him and his two compa-
nions each of them a gun', with powder and
hall sufficient, and firing myself, killed one of
the Captain's enemies, and wounded the other,
who eagerly called for assistance; but the
Captain ( who had reserved his piece) coming
up to him, Sirrah, said he, 'lis too late to call
for assistance, you should rather cry to God to
pardon your villainy: and so knocked him
down with the stock of his gun: three others
were also slightly wounded, who, at my ap-
proach, cried out for mercy. This the Captain
granted, upon condition that they would swear
to be true to him in recovering the ship, which
they solemnly did: however I obliged the
Captain to keep them bound. After which
1 sent Friday and the Captain's mate to secure
the boat and bring away the oars and sail;
when the men, seeing their late distressed Cap-
tain, now their conqueror, submitted to be
bound also. And then it was, that having
more liberty, I related the adventures of my
whole life, which he heard with a serious ad-
tention. After this, I carried him and his two
companionsinto my little fortified castle, shott-
ed them all my conveniences, and when thie
was over, we began.to consider about regain-
ing the ship; hn said that there were twenty-
. six hands on board, who knowing their lives
wore forfeited by the law, for conspiracy ajid
mutiny, were so very hardened, that it would
be dangerous for our small company to attack
them. This was a reasonable inference, in-
. deed: but something vre must resolve on, ami
immediately put in execution: we therefore
heaved the boat upon the beach so high that
,she could not shoot off at high water mark, and
broke a hole in her not easy to bo stopped; so
that all the signals they gave for the boat to
come on board were in vain. This obliged
them to send another boat ashore, with te.n
men armed, whose faces the captain plainly
. descried, the boatswain being the chief offi-
cer; but he said there were throe honest lads
, among them, who were forced into the consjit-
racy. 'Hereupon, I gave him fresh courage,
( for I had perceived he was in concern) in the
mean while securing our prisoners, except two,
whom we took to our assisstance, we thought
. ourselves able enough to endure a battle.
When the sailors landed, and beheld their
boat in that condition, they not only hallooed,
but fired, for their companions to hear, yet
they received no answer. This struck them
with horror and amazement, thinking their
companions were murdeTed, tbey made as if
1T0
they would return to tbo ship. I QOilld per-'
ceive the Captain's countenance change art this,
till, of a sudden, three men were ordered to
look after the boat, while the other seven leapt
on shore, in order to search for their compa-
nions; and, indeed, they came to the brow of
the hill, near my ancient castle, from whence
they could see to a great distanee in the woods,
and there shouting and hallooing till tired and
Weary, they at length seated themselves under
a spreading tree. My opinion was, that no-
thing could be done till night, when I might
use some artifice to get them all out of the
boat; but of a sudden they started up, and
made towards the sea-side; hereupon I or*
dered Friday and the Captain's mate to go
over the creek, and halloo as loud as they
could, and so decoying them into the woods,
come round to me again. And this, indeed,
had good effect; for thoy followed the noise,
till coming westward to the creek, they called
for their boat to carry them over, and taking
one of the men out of her, left two to look
after her, having fastened her to the stump of
a little tree on th^ shore. Hereupon imme-
diately the Captain and our party passing the
creek out of tneir sight, we surprised them
, both, by the Captain's knocking down one and
ordering the other to surrender upon pain of
death, and who being the honestest of them
all, sincerely joined with us. By this time
it was pretty late; when the rest returning to
171
t&etr toat, which tbey found aground in the
creeft, the tldo out, and the mt'n gone! they
ran about wringing their hands, crying it was
so enchanXed island, and that they should bo
aU murdered by spirits or devils. My men
would willingly have fallen upon them, but 1
p'ould not agree to hazard any of our party.
But to be more certain, Friday and the Cap.
lain crawled upon their hands and feet, as near
as possible; and, when the boatswain ap-
proached in sight, bo eager was the Captain,
that he fired, and killed him on the spot: Friday
knocked down the next man, and a third ran
(away. Hereupon I advanced with my whole
army; and it being dark, 1 ordered the man
we had surprised in the boat, to call them by
their names, and to parley with them. Accord-
ingly he called aloud, Tom. Smith, Tom
Smith! He answered, Who's that; Robinson I
pnswered the other. For God s sake, Tom, sw/>
render immediately, or you're all dead men,
Who must we surrender to ? says Smith. To
our Captain and a large force here, who have
taken me -prisoner, wounded Will Fyre, and
killed the boatswain. Shall we have quarters
then? said he. Hereupon the Captain calls
out, You Smith, you know my voice, surrender
immediately, and you shall have your lives
granted, except Will Atkins. Hereupon Atkins
cries but, What have I clone, Captain, more
than the rest, who have been as bad as me;
but that was a lie, for ho was the person that
k 2
172
laid hold of him, and bound him. However/
he wan ordered to bubmit to the governor*s
mercy, for such was I called. And so laying1
down their arms, we bound them all, and seized
,on their boat.
After this, the Captain expostulated with'
thom, tellhg them that the governor was an
Englishman, who might execute them there:
but ho thought they would be sent to England.
Hereupon they implored the Captain to inter-
cede for their lives, and begged they might not
bo sent to England. This answered our pro-
ject for seizing the ship. For, after sending
them, fast bound, to the cave, I sent the Cap-
tain to treat with them in the governor's name,
offering them pardon if they would assist in
recovering the ship. Upon which, they all
promised to stand' by him till the last drop of
tlioir blood; and whoever acted treacherously
should be hanged in chains upon the beach:
They were all released on those assurances;
and then the Captain repaired to the dther
boat, making his passenger Captain of her,
and gave him four men well armed; while
himself, his mate, and five more, went in the
other boat. By midnight, they came within
call of the ship, when the Captain ordered
Robinson to hail her, and tell them that with
great difficulty they had found the men at lait.
But, while they were discoursing, the Captain)
his mate, and the rest entered, and knocked
down the second mate, arid .carpenter, secured
those that were upon the deck, by putting
them under batches, while the other boat's
crew entered and secured the forecastle; they
then broke into the round-house, where the
mate, after some resistance, shot the pirate
Captain through the head, upon which, all the
rest yielded themselves prisoners. And thus
the ship being recovered, the joyful signal was
fired, which J heard with the greatest joy
imaginable: nor was it long before he brought
the shjp U> an anchor at the creek's mouth,
where comipg to me unawares. There, says he,
piy dearest Jrtetfd and deliverer, there is your
s%ip, arid we are your servants: a comfort so
Unspeakable, as made rue swoon in his arms,
while, with gratitude to heaven, we were ten^
derly embracing each other,
frothing now remained, but to consult what
we should do with the prisoners, whom he
thought it was not safe to take on board,
Hcreupnn, concerting with the Captain, I
dressed myself in one of his suits, and sending
for them, told thepi, that as J was going to
leave the island with all rny people, jf they
would tony there, their lives should be spared;
if not, they shoujd be hanged at the first port
they came to. They agreed to stay. .Here-
upon I told them nay whole story, charging
them tq be kind to the Spaniards that were ex?
pected, gave them all my arras, and informing
theni of every thing necessary for their subsist-
ence, I and rny map Friday went dp. boatd.
? 3
174
But the next morning two of the men came
swimming to the ship's side, desiring the Cap-
tain to take them on board, though he hanged
them afterwards, complaining mightily how
barbarously the others used them. Upop
which I prevailed with the Captain to take
them tn; and being severely punished, they
proved more honest for the future. And so I
bid farewell to this island, carrying along with,
mo my money, my parrot, umbrella, and goat-
skin cap; setting sail December 12, 1687,
after twenty-eight years, two months and nine-
toon days residence, and. landing in England,
June 11, 1688, after five and thirty years ab-
sence from my own country, which rendered^
fue altogether a stranger there.
FINIS.
175
VERSES
»
SUPPOSED BO BE WRITTEN BY ALEX. SELKIRK,
DURING HIS SOLITARY ABODE IN THE
ISLAND OF JUAN FERNANDEZ,; IN WHICH
HE HAD LIVED QUITE ALONE, .-DURJNO
UPWARDS OF FOUR YEARS.
1.
I AM monarch of all I survey,
My right there is none to dispute;
From the centre all round to tho sea,
1 am lord of the fowl and the brute.'
Oh, Solitude! where are the charms .
That sages have seen in thy face?
Better dwell in the midst of alarms,
Than reigu in this horrible place.
II.
I am out of humanity's reach,
I must finish my journey alone,
Never hear the sweet music of speech;:
I start at the sound of my own.
The beasts, that roam over the plain,
My form with indifference see;
They are so unacquainted with man, t
Their tameness is shocking to mo. ', ,
176
Iff.
Society, friendship, and love,
Divinely bestow'd upon roan,
Oh, had 1 the wings of a dove,
How soon would I taste you again!
My sorrows I then might assuage
In the ways of religion and truth,
Might learn from the wisdom of age,
And be cheer'd by the sallies of j'outh.
IV.
Religion! what treasure untold
Resides in that heavenly word!
More precious than silver and gold,
Or all that this earth can afford.
But the toll of the summoning bell
These valleys and rocks never heard,
Ne'er sigh'd at the sound of a knell,
Or smil'd when a sabbath appear'd.
V.
Ye winds, that have mack roe your sport,
Convey to this desolate shore,
Some cordial endearing report
Of a (end I shall visit no more;
My friends, do tbey now and then send
A wish or a thought after me?
O tell me I: yet have a friend,
Though a friend I am never to see.
177
VI.
How fleet is a glance of the mind!
Compar'd with the speed of its flight,
The tempest itself lags behind,
, And the swift winged arrows of. light.
Whew I think of my own native land,
In a moment I seem to be there;
But, alas! recollection at hand
Soon hurries me back to despair.
VII.
But the sea-fowl is gone to her nest,
The beast is laid down in bis lair,
Ev'n here is a season of rest,
And I to my cabin repair.
There's mercy in every place;
And mercy, encouraging thought!
Gives even affliction a gruco.
And reconciles man to his lot.
Printed by J. Jones, 40, S. Great George's-st. Dublin.

This book should be returned to
the Library on or before the last date
stamped below.
A fine of five cents a day is incurred
by retaining it beyond the specified
time.
Please return promptly.

THE
p
life:
AND
MOST SURPRISING ADVENTURES
OF

OF YORK, MARINER
FOURTH EDITION.
DUBLIN
FBIXTtC BY JOHN JONES, 40, SOUTH UBtAT QEOROE's-St.
ii b r \ *\
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I was bom at York, in the year 1632, of a
reputable family. My father was a native of
Bremen, who, by merchandizing at Hull for
some time, gained a very plentiful fortune.
He married my mother at York, who received
her first breath in that country: and as her
maiden name was Robinson, I waS called
Robinson Kreutznaer, which not being. easily
pronounced in the English tongue, we are com-
monly known by the name of Crusoe.
I was the youngest of three brothers. The
eldest was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart's
regiment, but slain by the Spaniards: what
became of the other I could never learn.
No charge nor pains were wanting in my
education. My father designed me for the
Jaw, yet nothing could serve me But I must go
to aea, both against the will of my lather, the
tears of my mother, and the intreaties of my
friends. One morning, my father expostulated
very warmly with me. What reason, says he,
have you to leave your native country, where
there must be a more certain prospect of con-
tent and happiness, to enter into a wandering
condition of uneasiness and uncertainty? He
recommended to me Agur's wish, Neither to
desire poverty, nor riches; that a middle state
of life was the most happy; and that the high
towering thoughts of raising our condition by
wandering abroad, were surrounded with mi-
sery and danger, and often ended with confu-
sion and disappointment. I entreat you, nay,
I command you, (says he,) to desist from these
intentions. If you 'will go, (added he) my
prayers shall however be offered for your pre- ,
servation; but a time may come, when deso-
late, oppressed, or forsaken, you may wish,
you had taken your poor despised father's
counsel. He pronounced those words with
.such a moving and paternal eloquence, while
floods of tears ran down his aged cheeks, that
it seemed to stem the torrent of my resolutions.
But this soon wore off, and a little after, 1 in- .
farmed my mother that I could not settle at
any business, my resolution was so strong to
see the world, and begged she would gain my
father's consent only to go one voyage; which
if it did not prove prosperous, J would never
attempt a second. But my desire was as vain
as my folly in asking. My mother passionately,
expressed ber dislike of this proposal, tejliiy .
rao, That as she saw I was le-ni a* my own
destruction, contrary to their will ami my duty,
she mould say no more,, but lea ve me to myself ',
io do whatsoever I flensed.
I was ibeu, I tlutik, nineteen years old,
when one time being at Hull, I met a sehool-
fellow of urine going along with his father, who
was master of a ship, to I^ondon, and aotjuaiat.
ing him with my wandering desires, ke a**uned
me of a free passage, and a plentiful shwe of
what was necessary, Thus, without implorieg
a blessing, or t^kieg a farewel of my parents, I
took shipping on the first of September 1051.
CFpon the .sixth day vvo camo to an anchor in
Harwich road, whore we lay wind-bouad with
some Newcastle ships; and these being a good
anchorage, and our cables sound, the seaman
forgot their late toil and danger, and spent
iho time as merrily as if they had been on
shure. But on the eighth day, there.aurose a
brisk gale of wjnd, which prevented'^.oux
tiding it up tbe river; and it, still increasing,
ojir ship rodo forecastle in, and shipped, se-
.v«.ral largo seas. ; { .
It was not l&ng before honor seized. the
seamen themselves', and. I heard the masier
,express this melancholy.ejaculation. Lord have
fnerjcy upon.us, we shall be all lofit and undone!
Yotmy part, sick unto death, I kept my cabin,
till the universal and terribly dreadful appre-
hensions of our speedy fate made me get upon
deck, .and there I W!;s..atjiigbted indeed, 'i'ha
*e,a. .vvc/^ uiQimtains high.: I euuld. *e»nothing
but distress around us; two ships had cat away
their masts, and another had foundered: two
more that had lost their anchors, were forced
out to the mercy of the ocean: and, to save
,our lives, we were forced to cut our foremast
and mainmast quite away.
Who is there so ignorant as not to judge of
my dreadful condition? I was but a fresh
water sailor, and therefore seemed more ter-
rified. Our ship was very good, but over-
loaded; which made the sailors often cry out,
She will founder: words I then was ignorant
of. All this while, the storm continuing, and
rather increasing, the master and the more
sober part of the men went to prayers, ex-
pecting death every moment. In the middle
of the night, one cried out, We had sprung a
leak: another, Thai therewas four feet water
in the hold. I was just ready to expire with
fear, when immediately all hands were called
to the pump: and ihe men forced me also in
that extremity to share with them in their la.
bour. While thus employed, the master espy-
ing 3onie colliers, fired a gun as a signal of dis-
tress; and I not understanding what it meant,
and thinking that either the ship was wrecked,
or some dreadful thing had happened, fell into
a swoon. Even in that condition of wo, nobody
minded me, excepting to thrust me aside with
their feet, thinking me dead; and I was a great
while before I recovered.
Happy it was for us, when, upon the signal
given, they ventured out thejr boat to save onr
lives. All our pumping had been in vain, and
vain had all Our other efforts been, had they not
come to our ship's side, and our men cast
them a rope over the stern with a buoy, to it,
which after great difficulty they caught hold of,
and we hauling them to us got into their boat,
and left our ship, which we perceived sink
'within less than a quarter of an hour: and
thus I learned what was meant by foundering
at sea. And now the men incessantly la-
boured to recover their own ship; but. the
sea ran so high, and, the wind blew so hard,
that they thought it convenient to haul x in
shore, which with great difficulty and danger
at last we happily effected, landing at a place
called Cromer, not far from Winterton light-
house; from whence we all walked to Yar-
mouth, where, as objects of pity, many good
people furnished us with the necessaries to carry
us either to Hull or London.
Strange! that after all this, I did not, like
the prodigal son, return to my father: who,
. hearing of the ship's calamity, for a long- time
thought me entombed in the deep. No doubt
but I should have snared in his fatted calf, as
the Scripture expresseth it: but my wayward
djsp osition still pushed me on, in spite of the
powerful convictions of reason and conscience.
When we had been at Yarmouth three days,
I met my old companion who had given me
the invitation to go on board along with his
father His behaviour and speech were altered,
A 5
and, in a melancholy manner he asked me how I
did? telling his father who I was, andhow I had
made this voyage for a trial only before I should
proceed farther abroad. Upon which the old
gentleman turning to me, said, Young man, I
recommend you tochuse another line o) life; the
sea is an uncertain element to trust to, and you
have lately experienced some of the hardships to
which sailors are exposed. Sir, answered I,
will you take the same resolution? It is a dif-
ferent case, said he, it is my calling, and, con-
sequently my duty to remain contented with it;
but as you have made this voyage for a trial
merely, and haee every other litie open to you,
I think you might chuse one less liable to hard-
ship and reverses. But pray what are you, and
on what account did you goto sea. Upon which.
1 very freely declared my whole story; at the
end of which he said, in a tone of seriousness,
which I shall never forget, Young man, you
ought to thank God, that you did not perish
whilst you were committing this act of disobedi-
ence to your Father; had I known these cir-
cumstances, you may be assured I never should
have sufferedyou to sail along with us; thank
God, however, that you. may still alone for the
past. Return to your Parents, they will for-
give you, but if you do not, recollect your Fa.
ther'swords, and beware lest hiswarningshoutd
be realized ;—and so we parted-
I thought at first to return home; but shamo
opposed that good notion, as thinking I should
be laughed s.t by my neighbours and acqaa«it.
ances. So strange is the nature of youth, wh«
are not ashamed to sin, but yet asliamed to re-
pent; and sO far from being ashamed of those ,
actions for which they may be accounted tools,
they think it folly to return to their duly, which
is the principal mark of wisdom. In short, 1 /
travelled up to London, resolving upon a
voyage; and a voyage I soon heard of, by my
acquaintance with a captain who took a fancy
to me, to go to the coast of Guinea. Having
some money, and appearing like a gentleman,
I went on board, not as a common sailor or
foremast-man; nay, the commander agreed I
should go that voyage with him without any
expense; that I should be his messmate and
companion, and that I was welcome to carry
any thing with me, and make the best mot
cbandise 1 could.
I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly
thanked the captain for his offer, and acquaint-
ing my friends in Yorkshire, forty pounds were
sent me, the greatest part of which, my dear
lather and mother contributed, with which I
bought toys and trifles, as the captain directed
me. My captain also taught me navigation, ,
so that 1 soon knew how to keep an account
of the ship's course, and to take an observa-
tion, and also became acquainted with several use-
ful branches of the mathematics. And indeed this
voyage made me both a sailor^and a merchant;
for I brought home five pounds nine ounce*,
Troy weight of gold dust, for my adventure,
which produced, at. ray return to London, at*
most three hundred pounds; but in this voyage
t was extremely sick, being thrown into a very
violent fever through excessive heat, trading,
upon the coast from the latitude of fifteen .de-
grees north, even to the line itself.
Bat, alas! my dear friend the captain de-
parted this life soon after his arrival. This wag
a sensible grief to me; yet I resolved to go
another voyage with his mate, who had now
got command of the ship. This proved a.
very unsuccessful one; for though I did not
carry a hundred pounds of my late acquired
wealth, (so that I had two hundred pounds
left, which I reposed with the Captain's widow,
who was an honest gentlewoman,) yet my mis-
fortunes in this voyage were very great. For
our ship sailing towards the Canary Islands,
we were chased by a Sake rover; and in spite
of aH the haste we could make; by crowding
as much canvas as our yards could spread, or
our masts carry, the pirate gained upon us,
so that we prepared' ourselves to fight. They
had eighteen guns, and we had but twelve.
About three in the afternoon, there was a des.
perate engagement, wherein many were killed
'And wounded on both sides: but finding our-
selves overpowered with numbers, our ship,
disabled, and ourselves too impotent to haye
the least hopes of success, we were forced to
surrender; and accordingly we were all carried
prisoners into the port of Salee. Our men
were sent to the Emperor's court to' be sold
me, kept me to be his own slave.
In this condition, I thought myself the most
miserable creature on earth, and the warning
of my father came afresh into my thoughts.
However, my condition was better than I
thought it to be, as will soon appear. Somo
hopes, indeed, I had that my new patron would
go to sea again, where he' might be taken by a
Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and then
I should be set at liberty. But in this I was
mistaken; for he. never took me with him, but
left me to look after his little garden, and do
the drudgery of his house, and when he re-
turned from sea, would make me lie in the
cabin, and look after the ship. I had no one
that I could communicate my thoughts to,
which were continually meditating my escape,
No Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman, in
short, no Briton amongst his slaves but myself;
and for two years I could see nothing practica-
ble, but only pleased myself with devising
plans which I was always obliged to relinquish.
After some length of time, my patron as I
found, grew so poor, that he could not fit out
his ship as usual; and then he used constantly
once or twice a week, if the weather was fair,
to go out a fishing, taking me and a young
Moorish boy to row the boat; and so much
pleased was he with me for my dexterity in
catching the fish, that he would, often send me
with a Moor, who was one of his kinsmen, and
the youth before-mentioned, to catch a dish qf
fish for him.
One morning, as we were fishing, there
arose such a thick fog, that we lost sight of tha
shore; and rowing, we knew noi which way,
we laboured all the night, and in the morning
we found ourselves in the ocean, two leagues
from land, However, we attained there at
length, and made the greatest haste, because
our stomaelis were exceedingly sharp and hun-
gry. In order to prevent such disasters for
the future, my patron ordered a carpenter to
build a little state-room or cabin in the middle
iof the long boat, with a place behind it to
steer'and haul home the main sheet, with other
.conveniences to keep him from the weather, as
also lockers to put in all manner of provisions;
with a handsome shoulder-of-mutton sail, gibing
over the cabin.
In this, ho'frequently took us out a fishing;
and one time, inviting two or three persons of
distinction to go with him, laid in provisions
extraordinary: providing also three fusees,
with powder and shot, that they might kill
some tsea fowl along the coast. The next
morning, the boat was made clean, her ^ancients
and pendants out, and every thing ready; but
their minds altering, my patron ordered us to
go a-fishing, for that his gucste would certainly
sup with him that night.
And now I began to think of my deliverance
indeed. In order to this, I persuaded the
Moor to get some provisions on board, and to
!irocure some powder and s hot, pretending to
All sea-curlews, Which Lo innocently and rea.
dily agreed to. In short, being provided with
all things necessary, we sailed out.
When we had passed the castle, we fell to
afishing; but though I knew there was a bite, I
dissembled the matter, in order to put farther
out to sea. Accordingly we ran a league far-
ther, when, giving the boy the helm, and pre-
tending to stoop for something. I seized Muley
by surprise, and threw him overboard. As
be was an excellent swimmer, he soon arose,
and made towards the boat; upon which I
took out a fusee, and presented it at him:
"Mufey," said I, "I never yet designed to
"do you any harm, and seek nothing now but
"my freedom. I know you are able enough
"to swim to shore, and save your life; but if
"you are resolved to follow me to the cn- .
"dangering of mine, the very moment you
"proceed, I will shoot you through the head."
The harmless creature, at these words, turned
himself from me, and, I make no doubt, got
safe to land. Then turning to the boy Xury,
I perceived he trembled at the action; but I
put him out of all fear; telling him, that if
he would be true and faithful to me, 1 would
do well by him, and not hurt him.
We then pursued our voyage, I kept to the
southward, to the truly Barbarian coast; bnt
in tho dark of the evening I changed my course,
that I might keep near the shore; and having
a fresh gale of wind, with a very pleasant
smooth sea, by three o'clock next day, I was
150 miles beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions. I continued sailing for five dayi
successively, till such time as the wind shifting
to the southward, made me conclude that, if
any vessel was in chace of me, they would
proceed no further.
After so much fatigue and thought, 1 an-
chored at the mouth of a little river, I knew
not what, or where, neither did I then see any
people. What I principally wanted was fresh
water; and I was resolved about the dusk of
the evening to swim ashore: but no sooner
did the gloomy clouds of night begin to suc-
ceed the declining day, than we heard such
barking, roaring, and howling of wild creftT
tu res, that one might have thought the very
strongest monsters of nature had their residence
there. Poor Xury, who was almost dead with
fear, entreated me not to go on shore that night.
"Suppose I don't, Xury," said I, "and in the
"morning we should sec men who are worse
"than those we fear, what then?" "O den
"we may give dem de 6hoot gun," said he,
"laughing, "and de gun make dem all run L
'' away." The wit, and broken English which
the boy had learned from myself, for we bad
passed a great deal of our time together,
pleased.me entirely, and made me still fonder.
of him than before. We could get but little
sleep all the night for the terrible howlings they
made; and indeed we were very much affrighted.
The next morning, T was resolved to go on
shore to get in fresh water, and ventured my-
self among the beasts or savages, should either
attack me. Xury said he would take one of the
jars, and bring me gome. I asked him why he
would go and not I? The poor boy answered,
"If wild mans come, they eat me, yon go
"away." This, indeed increased my affec-
tion for the child. "Well, deor Xury," said I,
we will both go ashore, both kill wild mans,
"and they shall eat neither of us." So giving
Xury a piece of bread to eat, we waded ashore,
carrying nothing with us but our arms, and two
jars for wi'.ter. I did not go out of sight of the
boat, as dreading the savages coming down the
river in their canoes: but the boy seeing a low
descent or vale about a mile in the country, he
wandered to it; and then running, back to me,
with great precipitation, I thought he was pur-
sued by some savages or wild beasts; upon
which I approached, resolving to perish, or pro-
tect him from danger. As he came nearer to
me, I saw something hanging over his shoul-
ders, which was a creature he had shot like a
hare, but different in colour, and with longer
legs; however, we were glad of it, for it proved
wholesome and nourishing meat; but what
added to our joy was, my boy assured me
there was plenty of water, and that he "saw
"no wild mans." And greater still was our
comfort, when we found fresh water in the
creek where wo were, when the tide was out,
without going so far \ip into the country.
In this place I began to hope that I should
meet some of the English trading vessels, who
would relieve and take ns in.
The place I was in was no doubt, that wild,
.country, inhabited only by a few, that lies
between the Emperor of Morocco's dominions
and the negroes. It is filled with wild heasis,
and the Moors use it for hunting chiefly.—
From this place, I thought I saw the top of the
.'mountain Teneriffe, in the Canaries, which
wiade me try twice to attain it, but as often
was I driven back, and so forced to pursue my
fortune along shore.
Early one morning wc came to an anchor
under a fittle point of land, but pretty high:
.and the tide beginning to flow, we lay ready
to go further in; hut Xury, whose youthful and
penetrating eyes we/e sharper than mine, in a
soft tone, desired me to keep far from land,
lest we should he devoured; "For, look yon-.
"der, .muyster, and see de dreadful monster
"fast asleep on de side of de hill," Accord-
ingly looking where 'he pointed, I espied a
fearful monster indeed. . It was a terrible great
'liou that lay on shore, covered as it.werebya
shade of a piece of the hrll. "Xury ,7 said I,
you shall go on shore and kill him." But
the boy looked amazed. "Me kill hina I" says
he, "he eat me at one mouth," moaning one
mouthful. Upon which I bid him lie still, and
charging my biggest gun with two slugs, and
a good charge of powder, and pulling in shore
till we had come within musket shot of the
place where he lay, I took the best aim I
could to shoot him through the head, but his
ftg lying over his nose, the slug broke his
Juje.e bone. The lion awaking with the pain,
hideous groan I ever heard; but taking toy
second piece, I shot him through. the head,
and then he lay struggling for life. Upon this
Xury took heart, and desired my leave to go
on shore. "Go then," said I. Upon which,
taking a little gun in one hand, he swam to
shore with the other, and coming close to the
lion, put a period to his life, by shooting him
again through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in
vain, the flesh not being good to eat. Xury
was like a champion, and comes on board for
a hatchet to cut off the head of his enemy;
but wanting strength to perform it, he cut off
and brought me a foot. I bethought me, how-
ever, that his skin would be of use. This cost
Xury and me a whole day : wb.en .spreading it
on the top of our cabin,' the hot beams of the
sun effectually dried it in two days time, and
it afterwards served me for a bed to lie on.
And now we sailed southerly, living spar-
ingly on our provisions, and went no oftener
on shore than we were obliged for fresh water,
in hopes to meet some European ship. If
Providence did not favour me, my next course
'was to seek for the islands, or lose my life
among the negroes; in a word, either I must
meet with some ship, or certainly perish.
One day as we were sailing along, we saw
people standing on the shore and looking at us;
we could also perceive they were black, and
stark naked. I was inclined to go on shore; but
Xury cried, No, no; however, I'approached
nearer, and I found they ran along the shore
by me a long way. They had no weapons in
their hands, except one, who held a Ion"
stick, which Xury told me was a lance, with
which they conld kill at a great distance. I
talked to them by signs, and made them sen-
sible I wanted something to eat; they beckon-
ed to me to stop my boat, while two of them
ran up into the country, and in less than half
an hour came back, and brought with them
two pieces of dry flesh, and some corn, which
we gratefully accepted; and to prevent any
fears on either side, they brought the food to the
shore, laid it down, then went and stood a
great way off, till we fetched it on board, and
then came close to us again.
But while we were returning thanks to
them, being all we could afford, two mighty
creatures came from the mountains, one as it
were pursuing the other with great fury, which
we were the rather inclined to believe, as they
seldom appear but in the night, and both these
swiftly passing by the negroes, jumped into
the sea, wantonly swimming about, as though
the diversion of the waters had put a stop to
their fierceness. At last one of them coming
nearer to my boat than I expectrd, or desired,
I shot him dkectly through the head, upon
which he.sunk immediately, yet' rising again,
he would have willingly made to the shore*
but between the wound and the struggling in
the water, he died before he could reach it.
It is impossible to express the consternation
Hie poor negroes were in at the firing of my
gun; much less can I mention their surprise,
when they perceived the creature to be slain by
it. I made signs to'them to draw it near with
a rope, and then gave it to them to haul on
shore. It was a beautiful leopard, which made
rue desire its skin; and the negroes seeming
to cdvet the carcase, I freely gave it to them.
As for the other leopard, it made to shore,
and ran with a prodigious swiftness out of
sight. The negroes having kindly furnished
me with water, and with what roots and grains
their country afforded,_ I look my leave, and
after eleven days sail, : came in sight of the
Cape de Verd. But the great distance I wan
from it, and fearing contrary winds would
prevent my reaching them, I began, to grow
melancholy and dejected, when upon a sudden.
Xury cried out, "Master, master," looking as
affrighted as if it was his master's ship sent in
search of us. But I soon discovered she was
a Portuguese ship. Upon which I strove for
life to come up to them. But in vain had it
been, if through their perspective glasses, they
had not perceived us, and shortened their sail
to let us come in. Encouraged at this, I set
up my patron's ancient, and fired a gun, both
as signals of distress; imon which they very
kindly lay to, so that in three hours time I came
up with them. They spoke to me in Portu-
guese, Spanish, and French, but none of these
did I understand, till at length a Scots sailor
«&Iled, and then I told him I was an English-
man, who had escaped from the Moors at
Salee, upon which they took me kindly on
board, with all my effects.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brazils,
we arrived in the Bay de Todos los Santos,
or, All Saints Bay, in twenty-two days after.
And here I cannot forget the generous treat-
ment of the captain. He would take nothing
for my 'passage, gave me twenty ducats for
the leopard's skin, and thirty for the lion's.
Every thing he caused to be delivered to me, and
what T would sell he bought. In short, I
made 220 pieces of my cargo, and with this
stock I entered once more, as I may say, into
the scene of life
To be brief, I bought a settlement next
door' to an honest and kind neighbour, bom
at Lisbon, of English parents, whose planta-
tion joining to mine, we improved very ami-
cably together. Both our stocks were low;
and for two years we planted only for food:
but the third year we planted same tobacco,
and each of us dressed 'a large piece of ground,
the ensuing year, for planting sugar-canes.
I was in some measure settled, before the
captain who took me up departed from the Bra-
zils. One day I went to him, and told him what
stock I had in London, desiring his assistance
in getting it sent out to me; to which the.good
entleman readily consented, but would only
ave me send'for half my money, Jest it should
miscarry, \ylrich, if it did, I might still have the
remainder to support me; and so taking' leS*
'ters of procuration from mo, bid mc .troublW
myself no further about it.
And indeed, be not only procured the
money I bad drawn for upon niy captain's
widow, bnt sent me over a servant, with a
cargo proportionable to my condition. fie
also sent me over tools of all sorts, iron work
and utensils necessary for my plantation.
Wealth now increasing on me, and uncon:.»
in on success crowning my prosperous labours,
I might have rested happy in that middle state
of life which my father so often recommended;
yet nothing would content me. Having lived
four years in Brazil, 1 had not only learned the
language, but contracted acquaintance with
the most eminent planters, and even with the
merchants of St. Salvadote, three of whom
came one morning to me, saying they had
a secret proposal to make. After enjoining
me to secrecy,' they told me "they bad a mind
to fit out a ship to go to Guinea, in order to
stock the plantation with negroes, which, as
they could not be publicly sold, they would
'divide among them; and if I would go their
supercargo' in the ship, to manage the trading
part, I should have an equal share of the
negroes, without providing' any stock. The
thing'indeed was lair enough, had I been in
another condition: however, I could not re-
sist the proposal, but accepted the oflfer; Hpo»
condition of their looking 'after niv.'plants.
JW; c .;';', .
ready, we set sail the first of September, l&5v>.
We sailed northward upon the coast, from
whence going farther into the ocean out of the
sight of land, we steered as though we were,
bound for the island Femand de Norenba,
leaving the island on the east; and then it
was we met with a terrible tempest, which
continued for twelve days successively, so
that the winds carried us wheresoever they
board. When the weather cleared up a little,
we found ourselves upon the coast of Guiana.
Upon this the captain gave reasons for return-
ing; which I opposed, counselling him to
stand away for Barbadoes, which, as I sup.
posed, might be attained in fifteen days. So
altering our course, we sailed north.west and
by west, in order to reach the Leeward
Islands; but a second storm succeeding, drove
us to the westward, so that we were justly
afraid of falling into the hands of cruel sa-
vages, or the paws of devouring beasts of prey.
In this great distress, one of the men, early in
the morning, cried out, Land! Land! which
he had no sooner said, than our ship struck
upon a sand-bank, and, in a moment, the sea
broke over her in such a n.ann/er that we ex-
pected we should perish immediately. We
knew not where we were, or upon what land
we were driven, whether it was an island or
the njainf inhabited or not inhabited, and we

could not so much as hope, lhat the ship
would hold out many minutes, without break-
ing in pieces, unless the wind by a miracle
should turn about immediately. While we
stood looking at one another, expecting death
every moment, the mate lays hold of the boat,
and with the help of the rest got her flung
over the ship's side; into this we all got, being
eleven in number and committed ourselves to
God's mercy, and the wild sea. And now we
saw that this last effort would not be a suffi-
cient protection from death; so high did the
sea rise, that it was impossible the boat should
live. As to making a sail we had none, nei-
ther if we had, could ~we make use of any. So
that when we had rowed, or rather were driven
about a,league and a half, a raging wave, like
a lofty 'mountain, catne rolling a-stern of us,
and took us with such fury, that at once it
overset the boat. Thus being swallowed up
in a moment, we had only time to call upon
the awful name of God, and to implore, in
dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy to re-
ceive our departing souls. .
Men are generally counted insensible, when
struggling in the pangs of death; but While I
was overwhelmed with water, I had the most
dreadful apprehensions imaginable, for $ie
thoughts of every thing which I had done
amiss came crowding to my mind. I had dis-
obeyed my parents, I had slighted their ad-
vice, I had left them to follow my own way-
ward inclination, and I was now about to ap-
pear before that Being whom I bad offended.
I was going I thought I knew not whither, in a
dismal gulph unknown, and as yet unperceived,
never to behold my friends, nor the light of this
world any more! I strove however to the last
extremity, while all my companions were over-
powered and entombed in the deep; and it was
with great difficulty I kept my breath till the
wave spent itself, and, retiring back, left me
on the shore half dead with the water I had
taken in. As soon as I got on my feet, I ran
as fast as I could, lest another wave should
pursue mo, and carry me back again. But for
all the haste [ made, 1 could not avoid it, for
the sea came after me like a high mountain, or
a furious enemy; so that my business was to
hold my breath, and by raising myself on the
water, to save myself by swimming. The next
dreadful wave buried me at once twenty or
thirty feet deep, but at the same time, carried
me with a mighty force and swiftness towards
the shore, when raising myself, I hold out a*
well as possible, till, at length, the water, hav-
ing spent itself, began to return, at which I
struck forward, and feeling ground again with
my feet, I took to my heels. Thus being
served twice more, I was at last dashed against
a piece of rock, in such a manner, as left me
senseless, but recovering a little before the re-
turn of the wave, which no doubt would then
overwhelm me, I held fast by the rock till those
succeeding waves abated; and then fetching
another run, was overtaken by a small wave,
, , B.2:
which was soon conquered. But before any
more could overtake me, I reached the main-
land, where clambering up the cliffs of the
shore, tired and almost spent, I sat down on
the gmss, free from the danger of the foaming
ocean.
No tongue can express the transports, that
my soul felt at this happy delivemnce. I was
wrapt up in contemplation, and often lifted up
my hands, with the profoundest humility, to
the divine power for saving my life; when the
rest of my companions were all drowned. And
now I began to cast my eyes around, and to
behold what place I was in, and what I had
next to do. 1 could see no house nor people;
I was wet, yet had no clothes to shift me;
hungry and thirsty, yet had nothing to eat or
drink, no weapon to destroy any creature for
my sustenance, nor defend myself against de-
vouring beasts; in short I had nothing but a
knife, a tobacco pipe, and a box half filled
with tobacco. The darksome night coming
upon me, increased my fears of being devour-
ed by wild creatures, my mind was plunged
in despair, and having no prospect, as I
thought of life before me, I prepared for ano-
ther kind of death than what I had lately es-
caped. I walked about a furlong to see if I
could find any fresh water, which I did to my
great joy; and taking a quid of tobacco to
prevent hunger, I got up into a thick bushy
tree, and soating myself so that I could not
fall, a deep sleep overtook me, and for that
night, buried my sorrows in quiet repose.
It was broad day, tlie next morning, before I
awoke, when I not only perceived the tempest
was ceased, but saw the ship driven almost as
• far as the rock before mentioned, which was
about a mile from the place where I was.—
When I came down from my apartment in the
tree, 1 perceived the ship's boat two miles dis-
tant on my right hand, lying on shore as the
waves had cast her. I thought to have got to
her; but there being an inlet of water about
half a mile's breadth between it and me, I re-
turned again towards the ship, as hoping to
find something for my more immediate subsist-
ence. About noon, 'when the sea was so calm
that I could come within a quarter oi a mile of .
her, it was to my grief I perceived, that if we
had kept on board, all our lives would have
been saved. These thoughts and my solitude
drew tears from my eyes, though all in vain.
So resolving to get to the ship, I stripped and
waded as far as I could find depth; after which,
swimming round her, I was afraid I could not
get any thing to lay hold of; but it was my good
iortune to espy a small piece of. rope hanging
down so low, that, by the help of it, though
with great difficulty, 1 got into the ship. Here
I found that the ship was bilged, and had a great
deal of, water in her, her stern was lifted up
against a bank, and her head almost in the
water. All her quarter, and what was there,
were free and dry. The provisions I found in
good order, and, losing no time, ate while I
was doing other things. I also found some
b 3
rum, of which I look a little; and now I wanted
for nothing except a boat, which indeed was
all, to carry away what was needful for me.
Necessity occasions a quickness of thought.
We had several spare yards, a spare top mast
or two, and two or three large spars of wood.
With these I fell to work, and slung as many
of them over board as I could manage, tying
every one of them with a rope, that they might
not drive away. This done, .1 went down the
ship's side, and tied four of them fast together
at both ends, in form of a raft, and laying two
or three short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways, I found it would bear me, but not any
considerable weight. Upon which I went to
work again, cutting a spare top-mast into three
lengths, adding them to my ratt, with a great
deal of labour and pains. I then, first \ny ing
upon it all the planks and boards I could get,
uext lowered down three of the seamen's chests,
after I had filled them with bread, rice, three
Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goats flesh,'
and some European corn, what little the rats
had spared; and for liquors, I found several
cases of bottles, in which were some cordial
waters, and four or five gallons of arrack. By
this time, the tide beginning to flow, I per-
ceived my coat, waistcoat, and shirt swim
away, which I had left on shore; as for my
linen, breeches, and stockings, I swam with them
to the ship; but I soon found clothes enough,
though I took no more than 1 wanted for the
present, My eyes were chiefly on tools to
work.with, anil after along search, I found out
the carpenter's chest, which I got safe down
on my raft. I then looked for arms and ammu-
nition, and in the great cabin, found two good
fowling pieces, two pistols, several powder
horns tilled, a small bag of shot, and two rusty
swordR. I likewise found three barrels of pow-
der, two of which were good, but the third
had taken water, also two or three broken oars,
two saws, an axe, and a hammer. I then put
to sea, and in getting to shore had three ad.
vantages in my favour. I, A smooth calm sea.
2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore.
•3. The little wind there was, blowing towards
land. After I had sailed about a mile, 1 found
the raft driving a little distance from the place
where I first landed, and then I perceived an
opening of the land, with a strong current of
the tide running into it, upon which 1 kept the
middle of the stream. But great was my con-
cern, when on a sudden, the forepart of my
raft ran aground. But after some time the ris
ing of the water caused the raft to float again,
and coming up a little river, with lund on hoih
sides, I landed in a little cave, as near the
mouth as possible, the better, to discover a sail,
if any such providentially passed that way.
Not far off, I espied a hill of stupendous
height, surrounded with sma'ler hills about it,
and thither I was resolved to go and view the
country, that I might see what part was best
to fix my habitation in. Accordingly, arming
myself with a pistol, a fowling piece, powder,
and ball, I ascended the mountain. There I
perceived I was in an island, encompassed by
the sea, no distant lands to be seen, but scat-
tering rocks that lay to the west; it seemed
to be a barren place, and as I thought, only
inhabited by wild beasts. I perceived abund-
ance of fowls, but was ignorant of what kind,
or whether good for nourishment. I shot one
of them at my return, which occasioned a con-
fused screaming among the other birds, and I
found it, by its colour and beak, to be a kind of
hawk, but its flesh was perfect carrion.
. When I came to my raft, I brought my
effects on shore, which work spent that day en-
tirely; and fearing that some cruel beast
might devour me in the night time while I slept,
I made a kind of hut, or barricade, with the
chests and boards I had brought on shore.
That night, I slept very comfortably; and the
next morning my thoughts were employed to
make a further attempt to this ship, and bring
away what necessaries I could find, before ano-
ther storm should break her in pieces. Accord-
ingly, I got on board as before, and prepared a
second raft far more nice than the first; upon
which, I brought away the carpenter's stores,
two or three bags full of nails, a great jack-
screw, a dozen or two of hatchets; and a grind-
stone. I also took two or three iron crows,
two barrels of musket bullets, another fowling
piece, a small quantity of powder, and a large
bag full of small shot. Besides these, I took
all the men's clothes I could rind, a spare fore-
Ronis'saN Crusoe on his Raft.
top-sail; a hammock, and some bedding; and
thus completing my 3ocond cargo, I made all
the haste to shore I could, fearing some wild
beast might destroy what I had there already.
But I only found a little wild cat sitting on one
of the chests, who nota seeming to fear me, or
the gun that I presented at her, I threw her a
piece of biscuit, which she instantly eat and
departed.
'When I had got these effects on shore, I
went to work iii order to make me a little tent
with the sail and some poles, which I had cut
for that purpose, and having finished. it, what
things might be damaged by the weather, I
brought in, piling all the empty chests and casks
in a circle, the better to fortify it against any
sudden attempt of man or beast. After this, I
blocked up the doors with some boards, and an
empty chest turned the long way out. I then
charged my gun and pistol, and laying my bed
on the ground, slept as comfortably till the
next morning as though I had been in a chris-
tian country.
Now though I had enough to subsist me a
long time, yet despairing of a sudden deliverance,
and fearing that both ammunition and provision
might be spent before such a thing happened^
I saved as much as I could, and so long as the
ship remained in that condition, I daily brought
away one necessary or other: particularly the
rigging, sails, and cordage: some twine, a bar-
rel of wet powder, sonie sugar, a barrel of meal,
three casks of rum, and indeed what was most
welcome to me,a whole hogshead of bread.
The next time I went, I cut the cables in
pieces, carried off a hawser whole, with a great
deal of iron work, and made another raft; but
this being so unwieldy, by the too heavy bur-
den upon it, and 1 not being able so dexte-
rously to guide it as the former, both my cargo
and myself were overtumed. For my part, all
the damage I sustained was a wet skin: and at
low water, after much labour in diving, I got
up most of the cables, and some pieces of Iron.
, Fifteen days had I now been on the island,
and eleven times on board, bringing away all
that was possible. 'As I was going the twelltll
time, the wind began to rise; howe\er I ven-
tured at low water, and rummaging the cal.iu,
in a locker, I found Several razors, sei*sa s, and
some dozens of knives and forks, and in ano-
ther, thirty-six pounds in pieces of eight, silver
and gold. I wrapt the money up in a piece of
canvas, and began to think of making another
raft; but I soon perceived the wind beginning
to rise, a fresh gale blowing from the shore,
and the sky overcast with clouds and darknoss.
So thinking a raft to be in vain, 1 let myself
into the water ,witb what things I had about
Die; and it^was with great difficulty 1 got
ashore, when soon after it blew a fearful storm.
That night I slept very contentedly in my
little tent, surrounded with all my effects; but
when I looked out in the morning, no more shiji
was to be seen. This much surprised me lor
the present; yet, when I con?id«red that I had
lost no time,; abated no pain«, and liad got
cvety thing useful out( of her, I comforted my-
self in the best manner, and entirely submitted
to Divine Providence.
My next thoughts were, how I should de-
fend and secure myself from savages and wild
beasts, if any such were m the island.
.When I considered the ground where I was,
that it was marshy, and had no fresh water
near it, my resolutions were to search for a soil
healthy and well watered, w here 1 might not
only be sheltered from the sun's scorching heat,
hut be more conveniently situated, as well to be
secured from wild noon, and beasts of prey, as.
more easily to discover any distant sail, should
it ever so happen.
And indeed it was not long before I had my
desire. 1 found a little plain near a rising hill,
the front towards which, being as steep as a
house-side, nothing corald .descend on me from
the top. , ,
On the side of this rock was a little hollow
place, resembling the entrance or door of a
cave. Just before this place, on the circle of
the green, I resolved my tent should stand.
This plain did not much exceed a hundred yards
broad, and about twice as long, like a delight-
ful green before my door, with a pleasing,
though irregular descent every way to the low
grounds by the sea side, sheltered from the
excessive heat of the sun. After this I drew a
semicircle, twenty feet in diameter, driving
down two rows of strong stakes not sis inches
from each other. Then, with the pieces of
cables which I had cut on board, I regularly laid
them in a circle between the piles, up to their
tops, which were more than five feet out of the
earth, and then drove another row of piles look-
ing within side against them, between two and
three feet high, which made me conclude it a
little castle impregnable by men and beasts.
And for my better security, I would have no
door, but entered in and came out by the help
of a ladder, which 1 also made.
Here was my fence and fortress, into which
I carried all my riches, ammunition, and stores.
After which, working on the rock, what with
the dirt and stones I dug out, I not only raised
my ground two feet, but made a little cellar to
my mansion house; and this cost me many'days
labour and pains. One day, in particular, a
shower of rain falling, thunder ana lightning,
ensued, which put me in terror, lest my powder
should take fire, and not only hinder my neces-
sary subsistence, by preventing me from killing
my food, buteven blow up me and my habitation.
To prevent which, T fell to making boxes and
bags, in order to separate it, having by me near
150lbs. weight. And thus being established as
king of the island, every day I went out with my
gun, to see what I could kill that was fit to eat.
I soon perceived numbers of goats,but very shy;
yet having watched them narrowly, and seeing I
could better shoot thom off the rock»» than whsa
in the low grounds, I happened to shoot a she-
goat suckling a young kid; which, not think-
ing its dam slain, stood by her unconcerned;
and when I took the dead creature up, the
young one followed me even to the enclosure.
I lifted the kid over the pales, and would wil-
lingly have kept it alive, but finding it could
not be brought to eat, I was forced to slay it
also for my subsistence.
Thus, entered upon a life of solitude, I had
most melancholy apprehensions concerning my
deplorable condition; and many times, the tears
would plentifully run down my face, when I
considered how I was debarred from all com-
munication with human kind. Y'et while these
desponding thoughts would seem to make me
accuse Providence, other good thoughts would
interpose and reprove me after this manner:
"Well, supposing you are desolate, is it not
"better to be so than totall-y perish? Why
"should you complain, when not only your
"life was preserved, but the ship driven into
"your reach, in order to take what was ne-
"cessary out of her for a subsistence?" Bwt
to proceed: It was, by the account I kept, the
.30th of September, when I first landed on this
island. About twelve days after, fearing lest
1 should loose my reckoning of time, nay even
forget the sabbath days, for want of pen, ink,
and paper, I carved with a knife upon a large
post, in great letters, came on ihpre, Sept.
30, 1659, and set it up in the similitude of a
cross, on the sea shore where I landed. Every
day I cut a notch with my knife on the sides of
the square post, and that on the Sabbath was
as long again as the rest, and every first day
of the month, as long again as that long one.
In this manner, I kept my calendar, weekly,
monthly, or yearly reckoning of time. But
had I made a more strict search (as I did af-
terwar Is,) I need not have set up this mark
For among the parcels belonging to the gun-
ner, carpenter, and captain's mate, I found
those very things I wanted; particularly pens,
ink, and paper; also 1 found two or three
compasses, some mathematical instruments,
dials, perspective glasses, books of navigation,
three English bibles, and several other good
books, which I carefully put up. Here Lean-
not but call to mind our having a dog and two
cats on board, whom I made inhabitants with
me in my castle. Though one might think I
had all the necessaries that were desirable, yet
still I found several things wanting. My ink
was daily wasting: I wanted needles, pins, and
thread to mend or keep my clothes together:
and particularly a spade, pick-axe, or shovel,
to remove the earth. It was a year before I
finished my little bulwark; and having some
intervals of relaxation, after my daily wander-
ing abroad for provision, I drew up this plan
alternately, as creditor and debtor, to remind
me of the miseries and blessings of my life,
under so many various circumstances.
I am cast upon a
desolate island, having
no prospect of a wel-
come deliverance.
How miserable am I,
singled out from the
enjoyment or company
of all mankind.
Like a hermit ( ra-
ther should I say a
lonely anchoret) am
I forced from human
conversation.
My clothes, after
some time, will be
worn out, and then I
shall have none to
cover me.
When my ammuni-
tion is wasted, then
shall I remain without
any defence against
wild men and beasts.
I have no creature,
no soul to speak to;
none to beg assistance
GOOD;
But yet I am pre-
served while my com-
panions have perished
in the raging sea.
Yet set apart to
be spared from death.
And He, who has so
preserved me, can de-
liver me from this con-
dition.
However, I have
food to eat, and even
a happy prospect of
subsistence whilst life
endures.
At present I enjoy
what is absolutely
needful; and the cli-
mate is so hot, that
had I ever so many,
I should hardly wear
them.
Yet even thus, T see
no danger of any to
hurt me, as in Africa;
and what if I had been
cast away upon that
coast.
Is there not God to
converse with, and is
no( he able to deliver
from. Some comfort thee? already has he af.
would it be tq resound forded thee sustenance,
my woes where I am and put it in thy power
understood, and beg to provide for thyself,
assistance where J till he sends thee d.-
niight hope for relief, liverauce.
And now, easing my ipind a little by these
reflections, I began to render my life as easy
ps possible
I must here add to the description I have
'given of my habitation, that havjng raised a
turf wall against the optside of it, I thatched it
so close as might keep it from the iuclemency
of the weather; I also improved >t within, en-
larged my cave, and made a passage and a
door in the rock, which came out beyond the
pale of my fortification. I next proceeded to
raake a chair and table, and so began to study
such mechanical arts as seemed to me, practir
cable. When I wanted a plank or a hoard, I
hewed down a tree with my hatchet, making it
sis thin with my axe as possible, and then
smooth enough with an adze, to answer my de-
signs; yet though I could make no more this
way tban one hoard out of a tree, in length of
time I got boards enough to shelter all my
stores, every thing being regujarly placed, and
rny guns securely hanging against the side of a
rock. This made it a very pleasant sight to
me, being the result of vast labour and great
diligence; which leaving for a while, and me
po the enjoyment of jt, I shall give the reader aa
account of some narts of my journal from tne
day of my landing, till the settling of my ha-
bitation, as heretofore shown.
JOURNAL.
SEPTEMBER. 30th, 1659, I, Robinson
Crusoe, having suffered shipwreck, was driven
on this desolate island, which I named the
Desolate Island of Despair, the rest of my
companions being swallowed up in the tem-
pestuous ocean. That day I spent in conside-
ration of my unhappy circumstances, having
no psospect but of death, either to be starved
with hunger, or devoured by wild boasts or
merciless savages.
Oct. 1. That morning, with great comfort, I
beheld the ship driven ashore. Some hopes I
had, that when the storm was abated, I might
be able to get some food and necessaries out of
her; which I conceived were not damaged,
because the ship remained upright. At. this
time, I lamented the loss of my companions,
and our misfortune in leaving the vessel. When
I perceived the ship, as it were, to lie dry, I
waded through the sands, as far as I could find
depth, then swam aboard, the. weather being
very rainy, and with scarcely any wind.
Oct. .5. My raft, and all the goods thereon
were overset; yet I recovered most again at
low water.
To the 14lh of this month, my time was em-
ployed in making voyages every tide, gettin
what 1 could out of the ship. The weather
very wet and uncertain.
Oct. 15. It blew hard, and rained night and
'day, when the ship went to pieces, so that no-
thing was seen of her but the wreck at low.
water. This day I secured my goods from the
inclemency of the weather. .'
Oct. 10, I wandered to.see where I could
find a place convenient for my abode: I fixed
upon a rock in the evening, marked out a half
moon, intending to erect a wall fortified with,
piles, lined within with pieces of cables, and
covered with turf.
Nov. 3. I shot two wild-fowl, resembling
ducks, which were goo.d to eat, and in the af-
ternoon began to make me a table.
Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the
morning, I allowed myself two or three hours
to walk out with my gun; i then worked till
near eleven o'clock; and afterwards refreshed
myself with what I had to eat From twelve
to two, I would lie down to sleep. Extreme
sultry weather- In the evening go to work
again.
Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and dog,
shot a wild cat with a soft skin, but her flesh
was good for nothing. The skins of those
killed I preserved. In my return I perceived
many wild birds, and was terrified by some
seals which made off to sea.
Nov. 6. Completed my table.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked to the.
12th, but omitted the 11th, which according
, to my calculation, I supposed to be Sunday.
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was
obliged to desist for want of a pick-axe, Shovel
and wheel-barrow. Iron crows I used to sup-
ply the place of the first, but with all my art
i could not make a wheel-barrow.
Nov. J 9. It was a great happiness to me to
find a tree resembling what tiie Brazilians call
an Iron tree. I had like to spoil my axe with
cutting it, it being very hard, and exceedingly.
heavy; yet with much labour and industry I
made a sort of spade out of it.
Noy. 23. These tools being made, I daily.
carried on my business; eighteen days I allow-
ed for enlarging my cave, that it might serve
.me, not only for a warehouse, but kitchen, par-
lour, and cellar. I commonly lay in the tent?
unless the weather was so rainy that I could
not lie dry. So wet would it be at certain sea-
sons, that I was obliged to cover all within
the pale, with long poles, in the form of rafters,
leaning against the rock, and load them with
flags and large leaves of tree§ resembling a
thatch.
Dec. 10. No sooner did I think my habita-
tion finished, but suddenly a great deal of the
top broke in, so that it was a mercy I was not
buried in the ruins. This occasioned a great
deal of pains and trouble to me, before 1 could
make it firm and durable.
Dec. \7. I nailed up some shelves, and drove
nails and staples in the wall and posts, to hang
every thing out of the way.
Dec. 20. I got every thing into its plaoo,
then made a sort of dresser, and another table.
Dec. 27. I chanced to light upon some goats,
shot one, wounded another; 1 led it home in a
string, bound up its leg, and cured it in a little
time; at length, it became so tame and familiar
as to feed before the door, and follow me where
I pleased. This put me in mind to bring up
tame creatures, in order to supply me with lood
after my ammunition was spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30. The weather being exces-.
sjvely hot, with little air, obliged me for the
most part, to keep within doors.
Jan, 3. to 14. My employment this time
was to finish the wall before described, and
search the island. I discovered a k^nd of pii
geous, like our house pigeons, in a nest among
the rocks. J brought them home, pursed thenn
till they could fly, and then they left me. Af.
ter this, I shot some, which proved excellent
food. Some time I spent vainly contriving to,
make a cask, I may well say it was ip vain,
because J could neither joint the staves, nor
fix the heads, so as to make it tight; so leav.
jng that, I took some goat's tallow I had by
pie, and a little oakum for the wick, and pro-
vided myself with a lamp, whjch served instead,
of candles.
But now a very straqge event happened. For
being in the height of my search, what should,
come into my hand, but a bag which was used
to hold corn (as I supposed) for the fow'.s; so,
immediately resolving to put gunpowder into it,
I shook all the husks and dirt upon one side of
a rock, little expecting what the eonsequenco
c a
would be. The rain had fallen plentifully a
few days before; and about a month after, to
my great amazement, something began to look
out very green and flourishing; and when I
came to view it more nicely, every day as it
grew, I found about ten or twelve ears of green
barley of the very same shape and make as that
in England.
I can scarcely express the agitation of my
mind at this sight. Hitherto I had been used,
like too many in the world, to look with in-
difference upon the marks of God's goodness,
which are every where visible. Indeed so ig-
norant was I. that I had even thought health,
and food, and clothing to be the mere, result
of our own labour and care and foresight,
without ever reflecting, that the Almighty is
the bestowcr of every good and perfect gift,
and that it is his blessing alone upon our
efforts which makes them to prosper. The ap-
pearance of the bailey flourishing so unexpect-
edly in a barren soil, and my ignorance of the
manner in which it came there, led me into a
singular opinion. 1 concluded that miracles
were not ceased, and that God had appointed
the barley to grow there without any seed,
purely for my sustenance in this miserable and
desolate island. And indeed such great effect
had this upon me, that it often made me melt
into tears through a grateful sense of God's
mercies: and the greater still was my thankful-
ness, when I perceived about this little field of
barley, some rice stalks, also wonderfully
flourishing.
While thus pleased in mind, I concluded
there must be some more corn in the island,
and therefore made a diligent search narrowly
among the rocks; but not being able to find
any, on a sudden it came into my mind, how I
, had shaken the husks of corn out of the bag,
and then so blind was my understanding, that
my admiration ceased, and with it my grati-
tude to the Divine Being, as thinking it was
lut natural, and not to be conceived a mira-
cle: though even the manner of its preserva-
tion might have made me own it as a wonder-
ful event of God's kind providence.
It was about the latter end of June when the
ears of this corn ripened, which I laid up very
carefully, together with 20 or 30 stalks of rice,
expecting one day I should reap the fruit of
my labpur: yet four years were expired before
I could allow myself to eat any barley bread;
and much longer time,, before I had any rice.
After this, with indefatigable pains and industry
for three or four months, at last I finished my
house, having no way to go into it, but by a
ladder against the wall.
April 16. I finished rny ladder, and ascend-
ed it; afterwards pulled it up, then let it dowa
on the other side, and descended into my new
habitation, where I had space enough, and was
so fortified, that nothing could attack me with-
out scaling the walls.
But what does all human art and industry
avail, if the blessing of God does not crown
our labours? Or who can stand before th«
A Unighty, when he stretchcth forth his arm J
For, one time, when I was at the entrance qf
my cave, there happened such a dreadful earth-
quake, that not only the roof of the cave came
tumbling about my ears, but the posts seemed to
crack terribly at the same time. This put me
in a great amazement; and running to the lad-
der and getting over the wall, I then plainly
knew it was an earthquake, the place I stood on
sustaining three terrible shocks in less than three
minutes. But judge of my terror when I saw
the top of a great rock roil'into the sea: I then
expected the island would be swallowed up
every moment: and what made the scene still
more dreadful, was to see the sea thrown into
the most violent agitations and disorders by this
tremendous convulsion of nature.
For my part, I expected every moment to
be swallowed up. At the moving' of the earth,
I was, as it were, sea-sick; and very much
afraid lest the rock, under which was my fence
and habitation, should overwhelm me and it in,
a lasting tomb.
It was only the dajr after, when a horrible
^empest arose, at the same time attended, with a
hurricane of wind. Three hours did this storm
continue, and in so violent a manner as to tear;
the very trees up by the. roots, which was suc-
ceeded 'hy abundance of rain. When the tem-
pest was over, I went to my tent; but the rain
doming on in a furious manner, I was obliged
to take shelter in the cave, where I was forced
to cut a channel through my fortification, to let
^he water out. It continued raining all that
night, and some time the next day. T'nese ac-
cidents made me resolve, as soou as the wea-
ther cleared up, to build me a little hut in some
open place, walled round to defend me from
wild creatures and savages; not douhting, but,
at the next earthquake, the mountain would
fall on my habitation and me, and swallow up
all in its bowels; but to resume the thread of
my narration which this mention of the storm
has interrupted.
April 16—1*0. These days 1 spent, in con.
triving how and in what manner I should lix
my place of abode. All this while, I was un-
der the most dreadful apprehensions. When
1 looked round my habitation, every thing I
found in its proper place. I had several de-
bates whether I' should move or not; but at
length resolved to stay where I v< as. till I found
out a convenient place where 1 might pitch my
tent.'
A.pril 22. When I began to put my resolu-
tions in practice, I was stopped for want of
tools and instruments to work with. Most of
my axes and hatchets were unless, occasioned
by cutting the hard timber that grew on the
island. It took me up a full week to make my
grindstone of use to me; but at last I found
out a way to turn it about vvith my foot, by
help of a wheel and a string.
April 30. My bread falling short, I allowed
myself but one biscuit a day.
May ]. As I walked along the sea shore, I
found a barrel of gun powder, and several
pieces of the wreck which the $ea had flun^
«p. Having secured these, I made to the ship,
whose stern was torn off, and washed a great
distance ashore; but the rest lay in tlie sands,
This, I suppose, was occasioned by the earth-
quake. ] now resolved to keep my old place
of abode: and also to get to the ship that day,
but found it impossible.
May 3. This day I went on board the wreck,
which still remained upon its bed of rock,
though the waves had carried away all its upper
woiks and left nothing standing but the part
between decks, and with my saw sawed off one
of the beams, which kept her quarter deck.—
1 then cleared the sand till flood.
May 4. I caught some fish, but they were
not wholesome. The same day, T also caught
a young dolphin.
M ay 5. This day also I repaired to the wreck,
and sawed another piece of timber; and when
the flood came, I made a float of three great
planks, which were driven ashore by the tide.
May 6—9. These days, I brought off th
iron bolts, opened the deck with the iron
crow, and carried two planks to land, having
made a way into the very middle of the wreck.
May 10—14. All this time I spent in bring-
ing off great quantities of iron and timber.
May 15. Took with me two hatchets on
purpose to cut off some lead from the roll, but
all in vain, for it lay too low under water.
May 24. To this day, I worked on the
wreck, and with great difficulty loosened some
things so much with the crow, that at the first
blowing tide, several casks floated out, and se-
veml of the seamen's cliesls; yet that day no-
thing came to land but pieces of timber, and a
hogshead which had some pork in it. I conti-
nued working to the loth of June, (except
necessary times for food and rest) and had I
known how to build a boat, I had timber and
planks enough; I had also nearly 100 weight
of sheet lead.
June 16. As I was wandering towards the
sea-side, I found a large tortoise or turtle, being
the first 1 had seen on the island, though,, as I
afterwards found, there were many on the other
side of it.
June 17. This day I spent in cooking it, found
in her three score eggs, and her fiVsh the most
savoury and pleasant 1 ever tasted in my life.
June 18. I staid within this day, there being
a continual rain; and it was somewhat more
chilly and cold than usual.
June 19. Exceedingly ill, taken with a trem-
bling and shivering.
June 20. Awake all night, my head racked
with pain and feverish-
June 21. Sick unto death, and terrified with
dismal apprehensions of my condition. Prayed
to God more frequently, but very confusedly.
June 22. Something better, but still uneasy
in my mind.
June 23. Again relapsed much as before.
June 24. Mended a second time.
June 25. A violent ague for seven hours, cold
and hot fits, succeeded by faint sweats.
June 26. Better, but very weak; yet I
scrambled out, shot a she goat, brought it home,
and broiled some of it; I would willingly have
stewed it, and made some broth, but had no
pot,
June 27. All this day I was afflicted with
an ague: thirsty, yet could hot help myself to
water: prayed to God in these words: Lord
in pity, look upon me: Lord have mercy upon
me! have mercy upon me! After thi3 I fell
asleep, which, when 1 awakened, I found had
much refreshed me.
I rose up in a pensive manner, being so
thoughtlul that I could not go to sleep; and
fearing the dreadful return of my distemper, it
caused me to remember, that the Brazilians
use tobacco for almost all diseases, 1 then
went to my chest, in order to find some, where
it was my happiness to find a cure, both for
soul and body; for there I found one of the
Bibles, which till this time, 1 had neither lei.•
sure nor inclination to look into; I took both
the tobacco and that out of my chest, and laid,
them on the table. Several experiments did
1 try with the tobacco: First, I took a piece of
Jeaf, and chewed it; but it being very green and
strong, almost stupified me; next, I steeped it
in some rum an hour or two, resolving when
I Went to bed to take a dose of it: and in the
third place, ( burnt some over a pan of fire,
holding my nose over it so long as I could
endure it without suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my
head was giddy and disturbed by the tobacco,
I took up the Bible to read. No sooner did I
open it, but there tippeared to vac these words,
Call on me in (he day of trouble, and I will
deliver thee, and thou shall glorify me.
At first, tins sentence made a very deep im-
pression on my heart; but it sson wore off again,
when I considered that the word deliver was
foreign to me. And as the children of Israel
said, when they were promised flesh to eat,
Can fioti spread a table in the wilder nets? In
the like manner I began to say, Can God him-
self deliver rue from this desolate island? How-
ever, the words would still return to my mind,
and afterwards made a greater impression upon
me. As it now was very late, and the tobaccq
had dozed my head, 1 was inclined to sleep;
but before I would lie down, I fell on my
knees, end implored trie promise (hat God had
made to me in the holy Scriptures, that if I
called on him in the day of trouble, he would
deliver me. With much difficulty, I afterwards
drank the rum, wherein I had steeped the tor
bacco, nyhich flying into my head, threw me
into such a profound sleep, that it was three
o'clock the next day before J awoke; or, rather,
1 believe, J slept two days, having certainly lost
a day in my account, as I afterwards disco*
vered, and I could never tell any other way.—
When \ got up, my spitits were lively and
cjieerful: my stomach much better, being very
lmngry; and, in short, nn fit returned the next
day, which was (he 29th, but I found myself
much altered for the better.
July 3. The fitquito left me, but I was very
weak- In this condition, 1 often thought of
these words, / wi(( deliver thee: and while at,

times I would think of the impossibility of it,
other thoughts would reprehend me, for disre-
garding the deliverances I had received, even
from the most forlorn and distressed condition.
I asked myself, what regard have I had to God
for his abundant mercies? Have 1 done my
part? He has delivered me, but I have not
glorified him; as if I had said, I had not
owned and been thankful for those as deli-
verances, and how could 1 expect greater? So
much did this sensibly touch my heart, that I
gave God thanks for my recovery from sickness
in the most humble posture.
July 4. This morning, I began seriously to
ponder on what is written in t!ie New Testa-
ment, resolving to read a chapter every morn-
ing and night, as long as my thoughts would
engage me. As soon as I set about this work
seriously, I found my heart deeply affected
with the impiety of my past life. After this
1 begged of God to assist me with his holy
Spirit in retuming to my duty. One day in pe-
rusing the Scripture, I cumo to these words.
Him hath God exalted with his right hand to
be a Prince and a Saviour for to give repen-
tance and forgiveness of sins. Immediately
I laid down the book, and with uplifted hands
to Heaven, loudly cried, O blessed Jesus, th iu
son if David! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and
Saviour, give me repentance: And, now in-
deed, I prayed with a true sense of my condi-
tion, and a more certain hope, founded on the
word of God. Now. I had a different sense of
these words, Call on me, and 1 will deliver thee,
thai is, from the dreadful load of guilt, which
oppressed my sinful soul, and not from a soli-
tary life: in a word, I came t« this conclusion,
that a deliverance from sin was a much greater
blessing than a deliverance from affliction.
To the 14th July, I walked about with my
gun, little and little at a time, having been re-
iluced to the greatest extremity of weakness.
The applications and experiments I used were
perfectly new: neither could I recommend
them to any one's practice. For though it car-
ried off the tit, it very much weakened me ; and
1 had frequently convulsions in my nerves and
limbs for some time. From hence I learned,
that going abroad in rainy weather, especially
when it was attended with storms and hurri-
canes of wind, was most pernicious to health.
1 had now LceD above nine months in the
island; and as I had never seen any of the hu-
man kind, I therefore accounted myself as sole
monarch: and as I grew better, having secured
my habitation to my mind, I resolved to make
a tour round my kingdom, in order to make
new discoveries.
The 15th July, I began my journey; I first
went to the creek where I had brought my
rafts on. shore, and travelling farther, found
the tide went no higher than two miles up,
where there was a little brook of running wa-
ter, on the bank of which were many pleasant
savannahs or meadows, smooth, plain and co-
vered with gmss. On the rising parts, where I
supposed the water did not reach, I perceived a
great deal of tobacco growing to a very strong
the virtues of which I did not understand. I
«f arched a long time for the Cassava root, which
1 knew the Indians in that climate made their
bread of; hut all in vain. Tlkere were seveml
plants of aloes, though at that time I knew not
what they were: likewise I saw several sngai-
.canes, but imperfect for want of cultivation.
W ith these few discoveries, I came back that
night, and slept contentedly in my little castle.
'flic next day, being the ltith, going the
same way, but farther than the day before, I
found the country f.•ore adorned with wodtls
end trees. Here I perceived different fruits in
great abundance. Melons in plenty lay on the
ground, and clusters of grhpes, ripe and very.
rich spread over the trees. You may imagine
I was glad pf this discovery, yet ate very spar-
ingly, lest I should.throw myself into a flux or
fever. The grapes, I found of excellent use;
ior when I dried them in the sun, «biph pre-
served them as dried raisins are kept, they
proved very v.holesome and nourishing, and
served me in those seasons when no grapes were
to be had,
The night drawing on apace, I ascended a
tree, and slept very comfortably, though it was
the first time I hod slept nut of my habitation.
And when the morning came. I proceeded with
great pleasure on my way, travelling about four
wiles, as 1 imagined, by the length of the val-
ley. At the end of this valley, I came to an
pperung, where the country seemed to descend
water, proceeding out of the side of the hill,
with 'tis crystal streams running directly east.—
And indeed here my senses were charmed with
the most beautiful landscane nature could af-
ford; for the countty appeared so flourishing,
green and delightful, that to: me it seemed like
a planted garden. I then descended on the
side of that delicious vale, when I found abun-
dance of cocoa, orange, lemon, and citron trees,
but very wild and barren at that time. As for
the limes, they were delightful and wholesome*
Gtk juice of which I afterwards used to mix in
water, which made it very cool and refreshing.
And now I was resolved to carry home and lay
up a store of grapes, limes and lemons, against
the approaching wet season. So laying them
up in separate parcels, and then taking a few of
each with me, I returned to my little' Castle,
after having spent three days in this journey.
Before T got heme, the grapes were so bruised
that they were utterly spoiled: the limes in-
deed were good, but of those I could bring
only a few.
July 19. Having prepared two bags, t return'•
«d thither again, but to my great surprise, found
all the grapes spread about, trodden to pieces,
and abundance eaten, which made me conclude
there were wild beasts thereabouts. To pre-
vent this happening again, I gathered a large
quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon
the out branches of the tree, both to keep them
unhnrt, and that they might cure and dry in
the sun: and having well loaded myself with
limes and lemons, I returned once more to my
old place ot residence.
And now, reflecting on the fruitfulness of
this valley, the pleasantness of its situation, its
security from storms, and the delightfulness of
the adjacent woods, I concluded I was settled
in the worst part of the country, and therefore
was thinking to remove my habitation.
But when I considered again, that though it
was pleasant, it was off from the sea-side, where
there was a possibility, some time or otheq^i
ship might either be driven or sail by: and that
to inclose myself among bills and woods must
certainly put an end to my hopes of deliverance;
I resolved to let my castle remain where Pro-
vidence had first placed it. Yet, so delighted
was 1 with this place, that I made me a little
kind of bower, surrounding it, with a double
hedge as high as I could reach, well staked and
filled with bulrushes: and having spent a great
part of the month of July, I think it was the
1st of August, before 1 began to enjoy my
labour.
Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I
took them fiom the trees, and they proved ex-
cellent good raisins of the sun; the most of
v which 1 carried to my eave; and happy for me
1 did so, by which 1 saved the best part of my
winter food.
Aug. 14. This day it began to rain; and
though I had made me a tent like the other,
vet having no shelter of a hill to keep me from
storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat in, I
was obliged to return to my old castle; tbo
rain continued more or less every day, till the
middle of October, and sometimes so violently
that 1 could not stir out of my cave for several
days. This season I fourd my family to in-
crease; for one of my cats that had run away
,from me, and which 1 thought had been aead,
returned about August, with three kittens at
her heels, like herself; from these cats pro-
ceeded such numbers, that 1 was forced to kill
and destroy them as I would do wild beasts or
vermin.
To the 26th of this month, I could not stir
out, it rained incessantly: when beginning to
want food, I was compelled to venture twice,
the first of which times, 1 shot a goat, and af-
terwards found a very large tortoise. The
manner of regulating my food was thus: tt
bunch of raisins served me for my breakfast:
a piece of goat's fleshx or turtle boiled for my
dinner, and two or three turtle eggs for my sup.
per. While the rain lasted, 1 daily worked two
or three hours at enlarging my cave, and by
degrees worked it on towards one side of the
hill, and made a door way out, which came be-
yond my fence or wall, and so I came in and
out this way. But after I had done this, I was
troubled to see myself thus exposed; though I
could not perceive anything to fear, a goat being
the biggest creature I had seen upon this
Island.
Sept. 30. Casting up the notches on my*
post, they amounted to 36'5, I concluded this
to be the anniversary of my landing; and there-
fore humbly prostrating myself on the ground;
confessing my sins, acknowledging God's righ-
teous judgment upon me, and praying to him
to have mercy upon me, through Jesus Christ,
I fasted for twelve hours till the going down of
the sun; and then eating a biscuit and a bunch
of grapes^ laid me on a bed* and with great
comfort took my night's repose. Till this time*
though I had always put a larger notch than
ordinary for each sabbath day, to my shame, [
bonfess it, I had seldom observed it in any rither
way. My ink failing soon after, I omitted in
my daily memorandum, things of an indifferent
nature, and contented myself to Write down
only the most remarkable events of my life.—
The rainy and dry seasons appeared now re-
gular to mei and experience taught me how to
provide for them: yet in one thing I am going
to relate', my experience very much failed me.
You may call to mind, what I have mentioued
of some barley and rice which I had saved;
about thirty stalks 6f the former, and twenty
of the latter; and, at that time, the sun being
in its southern position, going from me, toge-
ther with the rains, made me conclude it a very
proper season to sow it Accordingly I dug
up a piece of ground, with my wooden spade,
Smd dividing it into two parte, sowed about two
thirds of my seeds, preserving by me a handful'
of eadj. And happy it was I did so; for no
peared above the earth till the wet season caiu«
again, and then part of it grew, as if it had
been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial;
and seeking for a moister piece of ground near
my bower, 1 there sowed the rest of my seed
in February, which, by having the rainy,
months of March and April to water it, yielded
a noble crop, and sprung up very pleasantly. I
had still saved part of the seed, not daring to
venture all; and by the time I found out tho
proper seasons to sow it in, and that I might
expect every year two seed times and two har-
vests, my stock amounted to above half a peck
of each sort of grain.
No sooner were the rains over, but the stakes
which I had cut from the trees, shot out like
willows, the first year after lopping their heads.
I was ignorant of the tree 1 cut them from;
but they grew so regularly beautiful, that they
made a most lively appearance, and so flou-
rished in throe years time, that 1 resolved to
cut more of them; and these soon growing
made a glorious fence, as afterwards 1 shall
observe,
And now I perceived that the seasons of the
year might generally be divided, not into sum-
mer and winter, as in Europe, but into wet and
dry seasons, as in this manner:—
From (-February 15? Rainy,sUn coming nenr
To l April IS, 5' the Equina.':, 2 months.
i)
From C April 15, } Dry, sun getting north
To ~i August 15, 5 /Wrat Me 4 montlis
From f August 15, ? fPe/, Me swi iewg. Me«
To \ October 15, 5 come back, 2 months.
From ( October 15, > £*/y, «wh running south
To £ February 15$ of the line, 4 montlis.
The wet seasons would continue longer or
shorter, as the wind continued or ceased to blow.
Rut having found the ill consequences of being
abroad in the rain, 1 took care before hand to
furnish myself with provisions: and during tho
wet mouths, sat within doors as much as pos-
sible. At this time, 1 contrived to make many
handy things that I wanted, though it cost me
much labour and pains, before I could accom-
plish them. The first 1 tried was to make a
basket, but all the twigs I could get, proved so
brittle, that [ could not then perform it. It now
proved of great use to me, that when a boy I
took great delight in standing at a basket-ma-
ker's, in the same town where my father lived,
to view them at work: like other boys, being
curious to see the manner of their working these
things, and very officious to assist, 1 perfectly
learned the method of it, and wanted nothing
but the tools. And it coming into my mind,
that the twigs of that tree of which I made my
stakes, might be as tough as a sallow willow, or
Osiers growing in England, 1 resolved to mako
an experiment, and went the next day to my
country seat, and found some fit for my turn;
and after cutting down a quantity with my
hatchet, I dried them in my pale, and, when
fit to work with, carried them to my cave, where
I employed myself in making several sorts of
baskets, insomuch that 1 could put in what-
soever I pleased. It is true they were not cle-
verly made, yet they served my turn on all oc-
casions.
But still I wanted two necessary things. I
had no cask to hold my liquor, except two, al-
most full of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary
size, and some square case bottles; neither had
1 a pot to boil any thing in, only a large kettle
unfit to make broth, or stew a bit of meat: 1
wanted likewise at the beginning of this dry
season a tobacco-pipe; but for this 1 afterwards
found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planting my se-
cond row of stakes. But remembering that
when I travelled up to the brook I had a mind
to see the whole island, I now resumed my in-
tention, and taking my dog, gun, hatchet, two
biscuit cakes, a great bunch of raisins, with a
larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
I began my journey. Having passed the vale
where my bower stood, J came within view of
the sea lying to the west; when, it being a
clear day, 1 fairly descried land, extending from
the W. to the .S. W. about 10 or 15 leagues,
as I concluded: but could not say whether it
was an island or a continent. Neither could I
tell what this place might be: only thought it
was part of America, and Where I might have
been in a miserable condition had I landed.—
n 2
Again, I considered, that if this was .the Sjia^
nish coast, certainly, one time or the other, f
should see some ships pass by, and if it was
not, then it must be the savage coast between
the Spanish country and Brazil, which abounds
with cannibals or man-eaters.
As I proceeded forward, 1 found this side of
the island much more pleasant than mine; the
fields fragrant, adorned with sweet flowers and
verdant grass, together with several very fine
,woods. There were parrots in plenty, which
made me long for one to be my companion;
(tut it was with great difficulty I could knock
one down with my stick; and I kept him at
bome some years, before i could get him to call
me by my name.
In the low grounds, I found various sorts of
hares and foxes, as I took them to be, but much
different from those in England. Several of
these I killed, but never ate them; neither in-
deed had 1 any occasion; for abounding with
goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes, I could defy
any market to furnish me a better table. Jn
this journey, 1 did not travel above two miles
v a day, because i took several turns and wind-
ings, to see what discoveries 1 could make, re-
turning weary enough to the place where I de-
signed to rest all njgh', winch was either in a
a tree, or to a place which 1 surrounded with
stakes, that no wild creature might suddenly
surprize me. When I came to the sea.shore, I
w as amazed to see the splendor of it. Its strand
Vvas covered with shells of the inost beautiful
fish, and constantly abounding with innuniera.
ble turtles, and fowls of many kinds, which I
was ignorant of, except those called penguins.
was sparing of my ammunition, rather ehoos'
ing to kill a she.goat, which 1 did with much
difficulty, on account of the flatness of the
country.
Now, though this journey produced the most
pleasing satisfaction, yet my habitation was so
much to my liking, that I did not repine at my
being seated on the worst part of the island.
I continued my journey, travelling about 12. *
miles further towards the east, where I set a
great pile on the shore for a mark, concluding
that my next journey should bring me to the
other side of the island, east from my castle,
and so round till I came to my post again.—
As I had a constant view of the conntry, I
thought I could not miss my way , but scarcely
had 1 travelled three* miles, when 1 descended
into a very large valley, so surrounded with
hills covered with wood, that having no guide
but the sun, and to add to my misfortune, the
weather proving very hazy, 1 was obliged to
return to my post by the sea side, and so back-
wards the same way I came, In this journey,
my dog surprised a kid, and would have killed
ft, had I not prevented him. As I had often
been thinking of getting a kid or.two, and so
raising a breed of tame goats to supply me,
after my ammunition was spent, I took this
opportunity of beginning; and having made

a coliar for tills littte creature, with a string
made of rope yarn, I brought it to my bower,
and there inclosed and left him: and having
spent a month in this journey, at length I re-
turned to my old habitation.
Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction, when
I returned to my little castle, and reposed my-
self in my hammock. After my journey I
rested myself a week, which time I employed
in making a cage for my pretty poll. I now
began to recollect the poor kid \ had left in.
the bower, and immediately went to fetch it
home. When I came there, I found the young
creature almost starved; I gave it some food,
and tied it as before; but there was no occa-
sion, for it followed me like a dog; and as I
constantly fed it, it became so loving, gentle,
fmd fond, that it commenced one of my domes-
tics, and vvould never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox
being now come, I kept tlie 30th of Septem-
ber, in the most solemn manner, as, usual, it
being the second year of my abode in the island.
I spent the whole day in acknowledging God's
mercies, in giving thanks for making this soli-
tary life sis agreeahle, and less sinful, than that
of human society; and for the communication
of his grace to my soul, in supporting, comfort-
ing, and encouraging me to depend upon his
Providence, and hope for his eternal presence in
the world to come.
Indeed, I often did consider how much more
happy 1 was, in this state of life, than in that
manner of Hying I formerly used; sometime",
however when hunting, or viewing the country,
the anguish of my soul would break out upon
me, and my very heart would sink within me,
to think of the woods, the mountains, the de-
serts I was in; and how I was a prisoner,
locked up within the eternal bars and bolts of
the ocean, in an uninhabited country, without
a hope of escape. In this condition I would
often wring my hands, and weep like a chjld;
and even sometimes in the middle of my work,
this fit of melancholy would often take me;
and then I would sit down and sigh, looking
on the ground for an hour or two together till
such time as my grief got vent in a flood o{
tears.
One morning, as I was fully employed in
this manner, I opened my Bible, and began to
read that chapter in which' God promises to
Joshua, / will not fail thee nor forsake thee!
Surely, if Qod does not forsake mo, what
matters it, since he ^can make me more happy
in this state of life, than if 1 enjoyed the great-
est splendour in the world? And whenever I
opened or shut the Bible, I blest kind Provi-
dence, that directed my good friend in England
to send it among my goods without my order,
and for assisting me to save it from the power
of the raging ocean.
And now beginning my third year, my se-'
veral daily employments were these: First,
My duty to Heaven, and diligently reading the
holy Scriptures, which I did twice or thrice
every day: Secondly, Seeking provisions with
my gun, which commonly took me up, when
it did not rain, three hours every morning;
Ihirdly, The ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking what I had killed, or catched for my
supply, which took me up a great part of the
day; for in the middle of the day, the sun
heing at its height, it was so hot, that I could
not stir out: so that I had but four hours in
the evening to work in: and then from the want
of tools, of assistance, and skill, spent a great
deal of time to little purpose: I was no less
than two and forty days, making a board fit
for a long shelf, which two sawyers with their
tools and saw-pit, would have cut out of the
same tree in half a day. It was of a large tree,
as my board was to be broad. I was three
days in cutting it down, and two more in lop-
ping off the boughs, and reducing it to a piece
of timber. Thus I hacked and hewed off each
eide, till it became light to move; then 1 turned
it, made one side of it smooth and flat as a
board from end to end, then turned it down-
wards, cutting the other side, till I brought the
plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth
on both sides. Any body may judge my great
labour and fatigue in such a piece of work:
but this I went through with patience, as also
many other things, that my circumstances made
necessary for me to do.
The harvest months, November and Decem-
ber, were now at hand, in which I had the
pleasing prospect of a very good crop. But
feere 1 met with a new misfortune, for the goats
and hares, having tasted of the sweetness of
Uie blade, kept it so short, that it had no
strength to shoot up into a stalk. To prevent
this, I enclosed it with a hedge, and by day
shot some of its devourers; and my dog, which
I had tied to the field gate, keeping barking
all night, so frightened these creatures, that 1
got .entirely rid of them.
But, no sooner did I get rid of these, than
other enemies appeared, to wit whole flocks of
several sorts of birds, who only waited till my
back was turned to ruin mc. So much did
this provoke me, that I let fly. and killed three
of the malefactors; and afterwards served them
as they do notorious thieves in England and
Ireland, hung them up in chains as a terror
to others. And indeed, so good an effect had
this, that they not only forsook the corn, but
all that part of the island, so long as these
criminals hung there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter
end of December, which was my second har-
vest, I reaped it with a scythe made of one of my
broad swords. 1 had no fatigue in cutting down
my first crop, it was so slender,. The cars 1
carried home in a basket, rubbing the grain out
with my hands, instead of threshing it; and
when my harvest was over, found my half.peck
of seed had produced nearly two bushels of
rice, and two bushels and a half of barley. —
And now I plainly foresaw, that by God's good-
ness, I should be furnished with bread; but
yet I was concerned because I knew not how.
to grind or make meal of my corn, neither
knew I how to bake it into bread. I would
not, however, taste any of the crop, but re-
solved to preserve it against next season, and in
the mean white, use my best endeavours to
provide myself with other food.
But where were my labours'to end? the
want of a plough to turn up the earth, or shovel
to dig it, I conquered by making me a wooden
spade. The want of a harrow I supplied by
dragging over the corn a great bough of a tree,
When it was growing, I was forced to fence it;
when ripe, to mow it, carry it home, thresh it,
part it from the chaff, and save it. And, after
ell, I wanted a mill to grind it, a sieve to dress
it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an
oven to bake it. This set my brains to work,
to find some expedient for every one of these
necessaries, against the next harvest.
And now having more seed, my first care was
to prepare me more land. I pitched upon two
large flat pieces of ground, near my castle, for
that purpose, in which I sowed my seed, and
fenced it with a good hedge. This took me up
three months; by which time the wet season
coming on, and the rain keeping me within
doors, I found several occasions to employ my-
self; and while at work, used to divert myself
with talking to my parrot, teaching him to
know and speak his own name Poll: the first
welcome word I had ever heard spoken in the
island. I had been a long time contriving how
to make earthen vessels, which I wanted ex-
tremely; and when I considered the heat of the
climate, I did not doubt but, if I could find
any such clay, 1 might botch up a pot, strong
enough, when dried in the sun, to bear handling,
and to hold any thing that was dry, such as
corn, meal, and other things.
'To be short, the clay, I found; but it would
occasion the most serious person to smile, to
see what awkward ways I took, and what ugly
misshapen things I made; how many either
fell out or cracked, by the violent heat of the
sun, and fell in pieces when they were removed,
so that I think it was two months before I
could perfect any thing; and even then, but
two clumsy things in imitation of earthen jars;
These, however, I very gently placed in wicker
baskets, made on purpose for them, and be-
tween the pot and the baskets, stuffed it full
of rice and barley straw; and these I pre-
sumed would hold my dried corn, and per-
haps the meal, when the corn was bruised.
As for the smaller things, I made them with
better success; such as little round pots, fiat
dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, the sun baking
them very hard.
Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely ne-
cessary, and that was an earthen pot, not only
to hold my liquid, but also to bear the fire,
which none of these could do. It once hap-
pened, that as I was putting out my fire, I
found therein a broken piece* of one of my
this made me think of burning some pots f
and having no notion of a kiln, or of glazing;
them' with lead, I fixed three large pipkins, and
two'or three pots in a pile one upon. another.
The tire I piled round the outside, and dry
wood on the top, till I saw the pots in the
inside red-hot, and found that they did not
crack at all; and when I perceived them per-
fectly red, I let them stand in the fire five or
six hours, till the clay melted by the extremity
of the heat, and would have run to glass badr
I suffered it: upon which, I slacked my fire.
by degrees, till the redness abated .r and watch-
ing them till the morning, I found 1 had three.
vary good pipkins, aud two earthen pots, as
well burnt and fit for my turn as I could desire.
The first use to which I turned my pipkins,.
naa to. make some salt, which I had long
wanted. For this purpose, I filled them with
sea-water, and kept it slowly boiling over the
fire, till the whole of the water had boiled
away in steam, leaving at the bottom of the
vessel, a thin crust of salt which, I found
very good for giving a relish to my food.
The next concern I had, was to get me a
stone-mortar to beat some corn in instead of
a mill to grind it. Here, indeed, I was at a
great loss, a* not being fit for a stone-cutter;
and many days I spent to find out a great
stone big enough to cut hollow and make it
fit. for a mortar, and strong enough to bear the
weight of a pestle, that would break the fiorn-'
without filling it with sand. But all the stone*
of the island being of a mouldering nature,
rendered my search fruitless; and then I re-
solved to look out for a great block of hard
wood; which having found, I formed it with my
axe and hammer, and then, with infinite labour,
made a hollow in it, jast as the Indians of
Brazil make their canoes. When I had finished
this, I made a great pestle of iron-wood, and
then laid thom up against my succeeding
harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve,
to sift my meal and part it from the bran and
husk. Having no fine thin canvass to search
the meal through, I could not tell what to do.
What linen 1 had was reduced to rags: I had
gout's hair enough, but neither tools to work it,
nor did I know how to spin it. At length, 1
remembered T had some neck-cloths of calico
or muslin, of the sailors, which I had brought
out of tlio ship, and with these, I mads threo
small sieves proper enough for the work.
I come now to consider the baking part.—
The want of an oven I supplied, by making
some earthen pans, very broad, but not deep
When 1 had a mind to bake, I made a great
fire upon my hearth, the tiles of which, I had
made myself, and when the wood was burnt
into live coals, I spread them over it, till it be-
came very hot: then sweeping them away,' J
set down my loaves, and whelming down the
earthen pots upon thorn, drew the ashes and
coals all reund the outside of the pots to
E
continue the heat; and in this manner, I baked
my barley loaves, as well as if I had been a
complete pastry.cook, and also made of the
rice, several cakes and puddings.
It is no wonder that all these things look me
up the best part of the year, since what inter-
mediate time 1 had, was bestowed in managing
my new harvest and husbandry; for in the
proper season, I reaped my corn, carried it
home and laid it up in the ear, in my large bas-
kets, till I had time to rub, instead of threshing
it. And now indeed, my corn encreased so
much, that it produced me twenty bushels of
barley, and as much of rice, so that I not only
began to use it freely, but was thinking how to
enlarge my barns, and resolved to sow as much
at a time as would be sufficient for a whole
year.
All this while, the prospect of land, which I
had seen from the other side of the Island, ran
in my mind. 1 slill meditated a deliverance
from this place, though the fear of greater mis-
fortunes might have deterred me from it. For,
allowing that I had attained that place, I ran
the hazard of being killed and eaten by the de-
vouring cannibals; and if they were not so,
yet I might be slain, as other Europeans had
been, who fell into their hands. Notwith-
standing all this, my thoughts ran continually
upon that shore. 1 now wished for the long
boat with the shoulder of mutton sail. I went
to the ship's boat, that had been cast a great
way on the shore in the late storm. She was
turned up by the impetuosity and surge of the
waves and wind, I fell to work with all the
strength 1 had, and with levers and rollers
which I had cut from the wood, to turn her, and
repair the damages she had sustained. This
work took' me up three or four weeks, when
finding my little strength all in vain, I fell to
undermining it, by digging away the sand, and
so to make it fall down, setting pieces of wood
to thrust and guide it in the fall. But after
this was done, I was still unable to stir it up,
or to get under it, much less to move it for.
wards towards the water, and so 1 was forced
to give it over.
This disappointment, however,' did not
frighten me. I began to think, whether it was
not possible for me to make a canoe or Perigua,
such as the Indians make of the trunk of a
tree. Hut here I lay under particular inconve-
niences; want of tools to make it, and want of
hands to move it into the water when it was
made. However to work I went upon it, stop-
ping all the inquiries 1 could make, with this
lery simple aaswer E made to myself, let's first
make it, I'll warrant I'll find someway or other
to get it along when ii is done.
1 first cut down a cedar-tree, which was. five
feet tan inches diameter at the lower part next
the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it
lessened for a space, and then parted into.
branches. Twenty days was I hacking and
B. 2
bewing it at the bottom, fourteen more in (Sit-
ting off the branches and limbs, and a whole
month in shaping it like the bottom of a boat.'
As for the inside, I was three weeks withi
mallet and chisel, clearing it in such a manner
as that it was big enough to carry 26 men,
much bigger than any canoe I ever saw in my
life, and consequently sufficient to transport
me and all my effects to that wished for shore,
I so ardently desired.
Nothing remained now, but, indeed, the
greatest difficulty, to get it into the water, it
lying about 100 yards from it. To remedy the
first inconvenience, which was a rising hill be*
tween this boat and the creek, with wonderfu 1
pains and labour I dug into the surface of tho
earth, and made a declivity. But when this
was done, a!! the strength 1 had was as insuf-
ficient to move It, as it was when I first made
the attempt. I then proceeded to measure the*
distance of ground, resolving to make a cays.,
in order to bring the water to the canoe, sitxe t
could not bring the canon to the water. Bi t
as this seemed to be impracticable by myself
alone, under the space of eleven or twvlve year*,
it brought me into^sonm sort of consideration;
so that I concluded this also to he impossibh ,
and the attempt vain. I now saw, and not bi-
fore, what stupidity it is to begin work befor©.
we reckon its cost, or judge rightly our own
abilities to go through with its performance.
, In tho height of this work, my fourth year
expired from the time 1 was cast on this island.
At this time I did not forget my anniversary,
liut kept it with rather greater devotion than
before. For now my hopes being frustrated, i
looked upon this world as a thing 1 had nothing
to do with; and very well might I say, as fa-
ther Abraham said unto Dives, Between me
u/id thee there is a gulph fixed. And indeed
1 was separated from its wickedness too, having
neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the
eye, nor the pride of life; I had nothing to co-
vet, being lord, kinjr and emperor over the
whole country 1 had in possession, without dis-
pute and without controul; I had loadings of
corn, plenty of turtles, timber in abundance,
and grapes above measure. What was all the
rest to me? the money I had, lay by me as
despicable dross, which I would freely have
given for a gross of tobacco pipes, or a hand-
mill to grind my corn; in a word, the nature
and experience of these things dictated to mo
this just reflection; that the good things of
this world are no further good to us, than as
they are for our use; and that whatever we
way heap up, we can but enjoy as much as we
use, and no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy'
than usual, livery time I sat down to meat, I
did it with thankfulness, admiring the provi-
dential hand of God, who in this wilderness
had spread a table to rue. And now I consi-
dered what I enjoyed, rather than what I want-
ed; compared my present condition with what
1 at first expected it should be; how I should
liave done, if I had got nothing out of the ship;
that I must have perished before I had caught
tufa or turtles; or lived, had I found them, like
a mere savage, by eating them raw, and pulling
them to pieces with my claws, like a beast.—
I next compared my station to that which I
deserved; how undutiful I had been to my pa-
rents; how destitute of the fear of God; how
void of every thing that was good, and how
ungrateful for those abundant mercies I had
received from heaven, being fed, as it were, by
a miracle, even as great Elijah was fed by
ravens; and cast on a place where there are no
venomous creatures to poison or devour me; in^
short, making God's tender mercies matter of
#reat consolation, I relinquished all sadness,
and gave way to contentment.
As long as my ink continued, which with
water I made last as long as I could, I used to
minute down the days of the month on which
any remarkable thing happened.
The next thing that wasted after my ink,
was the biscuit, which I had brought out of
the ship; and though I allowed myself but one
cake a day for above a twelvemonth, yet I was
quite out of bread for nearly a year, before I
got any com of my own.
in the next place my clothes began to de-
cay, and my linen had been gone long before.
However, 1 had preserved about three dozen
of the sailors' chequered shirts, which proved
a great refreshment to me, when the violent
beaiun of the sun would not suffer me to bear
.any of the seamen's heavy watch-coats; which
made me turn tailor, and, after a miserable
ootching manner, convert them into jaekets. To
preserve my head, 1 made a cap of goat-skins,
with the hair outwards to keep out the rain;
which indeed served me so well, that afterwards
I made a waistcoat and open kneed breeches
of the same: And then I contrived a sort of
umbrella, covering it with skins, which not
only kept out the heat of the sun, but the rain
also. Thus being easy and settled in my mind,
my chief happiness was to converse with God,
in the most heavenly and comfortable ejacula-
tions.
For five years after this. I cannot say any
extraordinary thing occurred to me. My chief
employment was to cure my raisins, and plant
my barley and rice, of both which I had a
year's provision before hand. But though I
was dissappointed in my first canoe, I made it
at intermediate times, my business to make a
second of much inferior size; and it was two
years before I had finished it. But as I per-
ceived it would in no wise answer my design of
sailing to the other shore, my thoughts were
confined to take a tour round the island, to sea
what further discoveries 1 could make. To
this intent, after having moved her to the water
and tried how she would sail, I fitted up a
little mast to my boat, and made a sail of the
ship's sails that layby me, I then made locker*
of boxes at the end of it, to put in necessaries
provision and ammunition, which would pre-
serve them dry either from the rain, or the
spray ot the sea; and in the inside of the boat,
I out me a long hollow place to lay my gun,
and to keep it dry, made a cover for it. My
umbrella, 1 fixed in a step in the stern, like a
mast, to keep off the heat of the sun. And
now resolving to see the circumference of my
little kingdom, I victualled my ship for the
voyage, putting in two dozen of my bailey
bread loaves, an earthen pot full of parched
rice, a little bottle of rum, half a goat, powder
and shot, and t\vo watch-coats. It was the 6th
of November, in the 6th year of my reign, or
captivity, that I set out on this voyage; which
was much longer than,I expected, being obliged
to put farther out, by reason of the rocks that
lay a great way in the sea.
And indeed, se much did these rocks sur-
prise me, that I was for putting back, fearing
that if 1 ventured farther, it would be out of
my power to return; in this uncertainty I came
to anchor just off the shore, to which 1 waded
with my gun on my shoulder, and then climbr
ing up a hill, which overlooked that point, I
saw the full extent of it, and so resolved to run
all hazards.
J a this prospect from the hill, I perceived a
violent current running to the east, coming very
elsse to the point; which I the more carefully
observed, thinking it dangerous, and that when
I earns to it, I might be driven into the sea by
its fores, and not able to return to the island;
and certainly it must have been so, had 1 not
made this observation; for on the other side
was the like current, with this difference, that
it set off at a greater distance; and I perceived
there was a strong eddy under the land: so
that my chief business was to work out of the
lirst current, and conveniently get into the eddy.
Two days I staid here, the wind blowing very'
briskly 1£. S. E. which being contrary to the
cum l•t, leaves a great breach of the sea upon
the point; so it was neither tit for me to keep
too near the shore, on account of the breach;
nor stand at too great a distance for fear of the
streams. That night the wind abating, it grew
so calm, that 1 ventured out; and here 1 may
be a monument to all rash and ignorant pilots;
lor i was no sooner come to the point, and not
above the boat's length from shore, but J was
got into a deep water, with a current like a'
mill-race, which drove my boat along so vio-
lently, that it was impossible for me to keep
near the edge of it, being forced more and
more out from the eddy to the left of me; and
all 1 could do with my paddles was useless,
there being no wind to help me.
Now 1 began to look upon myself as quite
lost, since as the current ran on both sides of
the island, I was very certain they must join
again, and then I had no.hopes but of perish-
ing for want in the sea, after what provision I
e 5
had was spent, or before, if a storm should
happen to arise.
Who can conceive the present anguish of my
mind at this calamity? with longing eyes did
1 look upon my little kingdom, and thought tho
island the pleasantest place in the universe.—
Happy, thrice happy desert, said I, shall I
never see thee more? Wretched creature!
whither am I going? Why did I murmur
at my lonesome condition, when now I would
give the whole world to be thither again?
While I was thus complaining, I found myself
to be driven about two leagues into the sea:
however1, I laboured till my strength was far
spent, to keep my boat as far north as pos-
sibly I could, to that side of the current, where
the eddy lay. About noon I perceived a lit-
tle breeze of wind spring up from the S. S. E.
which overjoyed my heart; and was still more
elated, when in about half an hour, it blew
a gentle fine gale. {lad any thick weather
sprung up, I had been lost another way; for
having no compass on board, I should never
have found the way to steer towards the island,
if once it had disappeared; but it proving
the contrary, I set up my mast again, spread
my sail, and stood away northward, as much
as I could, to get rid of the current. And
no sooner did the boat begin to stretch away,
but I perceived, by the cleamess of the water,
a change of the current was near; for;, where,
it was strong, the water was foul; aud where,
it was clear, the current abated.
with my own, may guess my present excess of
joy, how heartily 1 ras my boat in the stream
of this eddy, and how joyfully I spread my
sail to the refreshing wind, standing cheerfully
before it, with a smart tide under foot. By the
assistance of this eddy, I was carried above a
league home again, when being in the wake of
the island, between the two currents, 1 found
the water to be in a sort of stand. About
four o'clock in the afternoon, I reached within
a league of the island, and perceived the
points of the rock, which caused this disaster,
stretching out, as I observed before, to the
southward, which throwing off the current
more southerly, had occasioned another eddy
to the north. But having a fair brisk gale,
I stretched across this eddy, and in an hour
came within a mile of the shore, where I soon
landed, to my unspeakable comfort; and af-
ter a.B humble prostration, thanking God for
my deliverance, with a resolution to lay all
thoughts of escaping aside, I brought my boat
safe to a little cove, and laid me down to tako
a welcome repose. When I awoke, I was
considering how I might get my boat home;
and coasting along the shore, I came to a good
bay, which ran up to a rivulet or brook, whore,
finding a harbour, I stowed ner as safo as
if she had been in a dry dock, made on pur-
pose for her.
I now perceived myself not far from the
piece, where before I had travelled on foot; so
hrella, I began my journey, and in the even-
ing came to my bower, where I again laid rue
down to rest. 1 had not slept long before [
wakened in great surprize, by'a strange voice
that callud me several times, Robin, Robin,
Robinson Crusoe, poor Robin! Where are
yon, Robinson Crusoe? Where are you I
Where have you been?
80 fast was I asleep, that at first I did not
wako thoroughly; but half asleep and half
awake, I thought I dreamed that somebody
spoke to me. But as the voice repeated, Ro-
binsen Crusoe, several times, being terribly
frightened, I started up in the utmost confusion;
and, no sooner were my eyes fully open, but I
beheld my pretty Poll sitting on the top of tho
hedgs, and soon knew that it was he that called
we; for just in such bewailing language, I
used to talk and teach, him; which lie so exact-
ly learned, that he would sit upon my finger,
and lay his bill close to my face, and cry,
Poor Robinson Crusoe, where are you ?—
where have you been? how came you here?
and such like prattle I had constantly taught
him. But even though I knew it to be the
parrot, it was a long time before I could ad.
just myself; boing amazed how the creature
got thither, and that he should fix about that
place, and no where else. But now, being
assured it could be no other than my honest
Poll, my wonder ceased, and reaching out my
band, and calling Poll, the creature came to
me familiarly, and perched upon my thumb,
as lie was wout, constantly prating to me with
Poor Robinson Crusoe, and how did I vome
here, and where had I been f as if the bird
was overjoyed to see me; and so I took him
Lome along with me. 1 was now pretty well
cured of rambling to sea; yet I could wish
my boat which had cost me so much trouble
and pains, on this side of the island once more,
but this, indeed, was impracticable. I there-
fore began to lead a very retired life, living
nearly a twelvemonth in a very contented man-
ner, wanting for nothing but conversation.—
As to mechanic labours, which my necessi-
ties obliged me to, I fancied I could, upon oc.
«asion, make a tolerable carpenter, were the
poor tools I had to work withal, but good.—
Besides, as I improved in my earthen ware, I
contrived to make them with a wheel, which I
found much easier and better, making my work
shapely, which before was rude and ugly.—
But, I think I never was so elevated with my
own performance or project, as when able to
make a tobacco pipe, which though it proved
an awkward clumsy thing, yet it was very
sound, and carried the smoke perfectly well,
to my great satisfaction.
I also improved my wicker ware, made mo
abundance of necessary baskets, which, though
not very handsome, were very handy and con-
venient to fetch things home in, as also for
holding my stores, barley, rice, and other pro-
visions.
My powder beginning to fail, made me
examine after what manner I should kill the
floats or birds, to live on, after it was all gone.
Upon which, I contrived,many ways to ensnare ,
the goats, and see if I could catch them alive,
particularly a she-goat with young.
At last I had my desire; for making pit-
falls and traps, baited with barley and rice, I
found one morning in one of them, an old he-
goat, and in the other, three kids, one male,
the other two, females.
So boisterous was the old one, that I could
not bring him away. But I forgot the old
proverb, That hunger will tame a lion: For,
had I kept him three or four days without pro-
visions, and then given him some water, with
a little corn, he would have been as tame as a
young kid. The other creatures I bound with
strings together; but I had great difficulty be-
fore 1 could bring them to my habitation. It
was some time before they would feed; but
throwing them sweet corn, it so much tempted
them, that they began to be tamer. From
hence 1 concluded, that if I designed to furnish
myself with goat's flesh, when my ammunition
was spent, the tamely breeding them up, like
a flock of sheep, about my settlement, was the
only method 1 could take. I concluded also,
1 must separate the wild from the tame, or
else they would always run wild as they
grew up; and the best way for this, was io
have some enclosed piece of ground, well
JTejiced, either with a hedge or pale, to keep
them so effectually, that those within might
not hreak out, nor those without break in.—
Such an undertaking was very great for one
[lair of hands; but as there was an absolute
necessity for doing it, my first care was to lind
a convenient piece of ground, where there was
likely to be herbage for them to eat, water to
drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.
Here again, I gave another instance of my
ignorance and inexperience, pitching upon a
piece of meadow-land so large, that had I
enclosed it, the hedge or pale must have been
al least two miles about. This thought came
into my head, after 1 had carried it on, I be-
lieve, about titty yards; 1 therefore altered my
scheme, and resolved to enclose a piece of
ground, about 150 yards in length, and 100 in
breadth, large enough for as many as would
maintain me, till such time as my flock in-
creased, and then 1 could add more ground.
1 now vigorously prosecuted my work, and it
took me about three months in hedging the
<irst piece; in which time, I tethered the three
ikids in the best part ol it; feeding them as
jiear me as possible, to make them familiar;
find, indeed, I very often would carry some
cars of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed
them out of my hand, by which they grew
*o tame, that when my enclosure was finished,
find I had let them loose, they would run
fitter me for a handful of corn. This indeed
junswered my end; and in a year and a half's
*ime, 1 had a flock of about twelve goats,
ET&s and all; and in two years after, they
amounted to forty.three, bosides what 1 had
killed for my sustenance.
After which, I inclosed five several pieces of
ground to feed them in, with pens to drive them
into, that I might take them as 1 had occasion.
In this project I likewise found additional
blessings; for I not only had plenty of goat's
flesh, but milk too, which in tbo beginning, I
did not so much as think of. And, indeed,
though I had never milked a cow, much less a.
goat, or seen butter or cheese made, yet after
some essays and miscarriages, 1 made me botii,
and never afterwards wanted.
How mercifully can the Almighty comfort
his creatures, even in the midst of their greatest
calamities? How can he sweeten the bitterest
evils, and give us reason to magnify him in dun-
geons and prisons; what a bounteous table was
here spread in a wilderness for me, where I ex-
pected nothing at first, but to perish for hunger.
Certainly any one would have smiled to see
me at dinner. There sat my royal majesty, an
absolute prince and ruler of my kingdom, at-
tended by my dutiful subjects, whom, if I
pleased, I could either punish or reward, give
them liberty or take it away. When I dined,
I seemed a king, eating alone, none daring to
presume to do so till 1 had done. Poll, as if he
had been my principal court favourite, was the
only person permitted to talk with me. My old
but faithful dog, now grown exceedingly crazy,
continually sat on my right hand; while nly
two cat* sat on each side of the tahle, expect-
ing a bit from my hand, as a principal mark of
my royal favour. These wire not the cats I
had brought from the ship; they had been dead
long before, and interred near my habitation by
mine own hand. But a couple of their young I
had n'ade tame; the rest ran wild iato the woods,
and in time grew so impudent, as to return aud
plunder me of my stores, till such time as I shot
a great many, and the rest left me without troub-
ling me any more. In this plentiful manner did
I live, wanting for nothing but conversation.—
One thing indued concerned me, the want ot my
boat; 1 knew not which way to get her round the
icland. One time 1 resolved to go along the shore
by land to her; but had any one at home met
kuch a figure, itwould either have affrighted them
or made them burst into laughter; nay, I could
not but smile myself at my habit, which I think
in this place it will be very proper to describe.
The cap 1 wore upon my head, was gieat,
high, and shapeless, made of a goat's skiu, with
a flap or pent-house hanging down behind, not
only to keep the 3un from me, but to shoot the
rain off from running into my neck, nothing
being more pernicious than the rain falling upon
the ncsh in these climates. I had a short jacket
of goat's skin, whose hair hung down such a
length on each side, that it reached down to
the calves of my legs. As for shoes and stock-
ings, I had none, but made a resemblance of
something, I knew not what to call them; they
wera made like buskins, and laced on the side
lilce spattenlftshes, barbarously shaped, like the
rest of my habit. I had a broad belt of goat's
skin dried, girt round me with a couple of thongs,
instead of buckles; on each of which, to sup.
ply the deficiency of sword and dagger, hung
my hatchet and saw. I had another belt not
so broad, yet fastened in the same manner, which
hung over my shoulder, and at the end of it,
under my left arm, hung two pouches made o*
goat's skin, to hold my powder and shot. My ,
basket, I carried on my back, and my gun on
my shoulder; and over my head, a great clum-
sy ugly goat's skin umbrella, which, however,
next to my gun, was the most necessary thing
about me. As for my face, the colour was not
so swarthy as the Mulattoes, or as might hava
been expected from one who took so little care
of it, in a climate within nine or ten degrees of
the Line. At one time, my beard grew so long
that it hung down above a quarter of a yard;
but as I had both razors and scissarsin store, I
cut it all off, and suffered none to grow, except
a large pair of whiskers, the like of which I had
Been worn by some Turks at Salee, not long
enough indeed to hang a hat upon, but of such
a monstrous size, as completely to alter my ap-
pearance.
But all this was of no consequence here, there
being none to observe my behaviour or habit.
And so, without fear and without controul, I
proceeded on my journey, the prosecution of
which took me up five or six days. I travelled
along tlia sea shore, directly to the place wher«
1 first brought my boat to an anchor, to get
upon the rock*; but now having no boat to
take care of, 1 went over-land, a nearer way to
the same height that I was before upon; when
looking forward to the point of the rock, which
lay out, and which 1 was forced to double with
rjjy boat, I was amazed to see the sea so smooth
and quiet, there being no rippling motion, nor
current, any more than in other places. And
now 1 was convinced, that by observing the
ebb and flow of the tide, 1 might easily bring
my boat round the island again. But when I
began to think of putting it in practice, the re-
mem bran ce of the late danger, struck me with
such horror, that I took another resolution,
though more laborious; and this was to make
a second canoe, and so have one for one side of
the island, and one for the other.
I had now two plantations in the island ; the
first, my little fortification, fort, or castle, with
many large and spacious improvements; for by
this time I had enlarged the cave behind mo
with several little caves, one within another, to
hold my baskets, corn and straw. The piles
'with which I made my wall were grown so
lofty acd great, as to obscure my habitation.—
And near this commodious and pleasant settle-
ment, lay my well cultivated and improved corn
fields, which kindly yielded me their fruit in the
proper season. My second plantation was that
near my country-seat, or little bower, where my
grapes flourished, and where having planted
my stakes, I made inclosurcs for my goats, so
«trong!y fortified by labour and time, that it was
much stronger than a wall, and', consequently,
,impossible tor them to break through. As for
my bower itself, 1 tept it constantly in repair,
and cut the trees in such a manner, as made
tbeui grow wild, and form a most delightful
shade. In the centre of this, stood my tent,
thus erected I had driven four piles in the
ground, spreading over it a piece of the ship's
nail: beneath which, I made me a sort of couch
with the skins of the creatures I had slain, and
other tilings; and having laid thereon one of
the sailor's blankets, which I had saved from
the wreck of the ship, and covering myself with
a great watch coat, I took up this place for my
country retreat.
Very frequently, from this settlement, did I
use to visit my boat, and keep her in very good
order. And, sometimes, would 1 venture in her
a cast or two from shoro but no farther. But
now, I entreat your attention, whilst I proceed
to inform you of a new, but most surprising
scene of life which here befel me.
You may easily suppose, that, after having
been here so long, nothing could be moro'
amazing than to see a human creature. . One
rluy it happened, that going to my boat, 1 saw
the print of a man's naked loot on the shore,
very evident on the sand, as the toes, heels, and
every part of it. Had i seen a monster of tins
most frightful shape, 1 could not.have been mow
confounded. My willing ears gave the strictest
attention. I cast my eyes aiuund, but could
Robinson Crusoe startled at the print
.of a maiu toot in tlie sar.d.
ceeded alternately to every part of the shore,
but with equal effect; neither could 1 see any
other mark, though the sand about it was as
susceptible to take impression, as that which was
so pla;nly stamped. Thus, struck with confu-
sion ahd horror, I re•urned to my habitation,
frightened at every bush and tree, taking every
thing for men; and possessed with the wildest
ideas! That night my eyes never closed. I
formed nothing but the most dismal imagina-
tions. In a word, all my religious hopes va-
nished, as though I thought God would not
now protect me by his power, who had won-
derfully preserved me so long.
What various chains of events are there in
the life of man? How changeable are our af-
fections, according to different circumstances?
We love to day, what we hate to-morrow: we
shun one hour what we seek the next. This was
cw'dent in me in the most conspicuous maimer;
for I, who before had so much lamented my
condition, in being banished from all human
kind, was now ready to expire when I consi-
dered that a man had set his foot on this deso.
late island. But when I considered my station
of life, that it was allotted to me by the infinitely
wise and good providence of God, that I ought,
not to dispute my Creator's sovereijjnty, who
had an undoubted right to govern and dispose of
his creatures as he thinks convenient; and that
his justice and mercy could either punish or de-
liver me: I say, when I considered all thjs, I
in him, pray ardently to him, and humbly re-
sign myself to his divine will.
One morning, lying on my bed, these words
of the sacred writings came into my mind, Call
upon me in the day of trouhle, and I will de-
liver thee, and thou s/ialt glorify me. Upon
this sentence, rising more cheerfully from my
l>ed, I offered up my prayers in the most devout
manner: and when I had done, taking up 'my
bible to read, these words appeared in my sight;
Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and
he shall strengthen thy heart; Wait, I say,
on the Lord. Such divine comfort did this give
me, as to remove all cause of sadness upon that
occasion.
Thus, after a world of apprehensions and
fears, for three days and night*, I at last ven.
tured out of my castle, and milked my goats,
one of which was almost spoiled for want of it.
I next (though in great fear,) visited my bower,
.and milked my flocks there also; when, grow-
ing bolder, I went down to the shore again, and
measuring the print of the foot to mine, to see
perhaps whether I myself had not occasioned
that mark, I found it much superior in large-
ness; and so returned home, absolutely con-
vinced, that either some men had been ashore,
or that the island must be inhabited; and, there-
fore, that I might be surprised before I was
aware.
I now began to think of providing for my
security, and revolved in my mind many
,
posed to cut down my enclosures, and turn my
tame cattle wild into the woods, that the enemy
might not find them, and frequent the island in
hopes of killing the same. Secondly, I was for
digging up my corn fields for the very same
reason. And, lastly, I concluded to demolish
my bower, lest seeing a place of human con-
trivance, they might come farther, and find out,
and attack me in my castle.
Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that
night; yet nature, spent and tired, submitted
to a silent repose the next morning, and then
joining reason with fear, I considered, that this
delightful and pleasant island might not be so
entirely forsaken as I might think; but that the
inhabitants from the other shore might sail,
either with design, or from necessity, by cross
winds; and, if the latter circumstance, I had
reason to believe, they would depart the first
opportunity. However, my fear made me think
of a place of retreat upon an attack. I now
repented that I bad made my door to come out
beyond my fortification; to remedy which, I
resolved to make me a second one; I fell to
work, therefore, and drove betwixt that double
row of trees, which I planted above twelve years
before, several strong piles, thickening it with
pieces of timber and old cables, and strengthen-
'ing the foot of it with earth which I dug out of
rny cave; I also made me seven holes, wherein
1 planted my muskets like cannon, fitting them
into frames resembling carriages. This behij
finished with indefatigable industry, for a great
way every where, I planted sticks of osier like
a wood about twenty thousand of them, leaving
,a laTge space between them and my wall, that
I might have room to see an enemy, and that
they might not be sheltered among the young
trees, if they offered to approach the outer wall.
And indeed, scarcely two years had passed over
my head, when there appeared a lovely shady
grove, and in six years, it became a thick wood,
perfectly impassable. For my .safety, T left no
avenue to go in or out; instead of which, 1 set
two ladders, one to a part of the rock which
was low, and then broke in, leaving room to
place another ladder upon that; so that when
I took those down, it was impossible for any
man to descend without hurting himself; and
if they had, they would still be at the outside
of my outer wall. But while I took all these
measures of human prudence for my own pre-
servation, I was not altogether unmindful of
other affairs. To preserve my stock of tame
goats, that the enemy should not take all at
once, 1 looked out for the most retired part of
the island, which was the place where 1 had
lost myself before mentioned, and there find-
ing a clear piece of land, containing three
acres, surrounded with thick woods, I wrought
so hard, that in less than a month's time, I
fenced it so well round, that my flocks were
very well secured in it, and I put therein two
he-goats, and ten she ones.
All this labour was occasioned purely by
fearful apprehensions, on account of seeing the
print of a man's foot. And not contented yet
with what I had done, I searched for another
place towards the west part of the island, where
I might also retain another flock. Then wan.
dering on this errand more to the west of the
island than ever I bad yet done, and casting my
eyes towards the sea, methought I perceived a
boat at a great distance: but could not possibly
tell what it was tor want of my spy-glass. I
considered then, it was no strange thing to see
the print of a man's foot; and concluding them
cannibals, blessed God for being cast on the
other side of the island, where none of the
savages, as I thought ever came. But when I
came down the hill to the shore, which was the
8. W. point of the island, I was soon confirm-
ed in my opinion; nor can any one describe
my horror and amazement, when I saw the
ground spread with sculls, bands, feet, and
bones of human bodies; and particularly, I
perceived a space like a circle, in the midst of
which had been a fire, about which I conjee-
tured those wretches sat, and unnaturally sa-
crificed and devoured their fellow creatures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dread-
ful spectacle, both confounded my senses, and
made me discharge from my stomach in an ex-
cessive manner. I then returned towards my
habitation; and in my way thither, shedding
floods of tears, and falling down on my bended
knees, gave God thanks for making my nature
contrary to those wretches, and delivering me
so long out of their hands.
Though reason and my long residence here,
had assured me, that the savages never came
up to the thick woody part of the country, and
that I had no reason to be apprehensive of a
discovery, yet such an abhorrence did I still
retain, that, for two years after, I confined my.
self only to my three plantations; I mean my
castle, country seat, and enclosure in the woods,
though in process of time, my dreadful appre.
hensions began to wear away.
Thus my circumstances for some time re.
mained very calm and undisturbed; though in-
deed, the terror which the savages had put me
in, spoiled some inventions for my own conve-
nience. One of my projects was to brew ma
sume beer; a very whimsical one indeed, when
it was considered, that I had neither casks suf-
ficient, nor could I make any to preserve it in;
neither had I hops to make it keep: yeast to
make it work, nor a copper nor kettle to make
it boil. Perhaps, indeed, after some years, I
might bring this to bear, as I had done other
things. But now my inventions were placed
another way; and day and night I could think
of nothing but how I might destroy some of
these cannibals, when proceeding to their bloody
entejrtainnjents; and so saving a victim froiu
being sacrificed, fliat he might afterwards become
my servant. Many were my contrivances for
this purpose, and many more objections occur-
red, after I had hatched them. I once contrived
to dig a hole under the place where they made
their fire, and put therein five or six pounds of
powder, which would consequently blow up
all those that were near it; but then I was loth
to spend so much upon them, lest it should not
do that certain execution I desired, and only
affright and not kill them. Having laid this de-
sign aside, I again proposed to myself to lie pri-
vately in ambush in some convenient place, with
my three guns double loaded, and let fly at them
in the midst of their dreadful ceremony: and
having killed two or three of them at every shot,
fall upon the rest suddenly with my three pis-
tols, and let not one of them escape. This plan
appeared to me so practicable that I used to
dream of it in the night time. To put my de-
sign in execution, I was not long seeking for a
place convenient for my purpose, where unseen
I might behold every action of the savages.—
Here I placed my two muskets, each of which
was loaded with a brace of slugs, and four or
five smaller bullets about the size of pistol bul-
lets; the fowling piece was charged with nearly
a handful of the largest swan shot, and in every
pistol about four bullets. And thus all things
being prepared, no sooner did the welcome light
spread over the element, but I would issue forth
from my castle, and from a lofty hill, three
miles distant, try if I could see any invader*
Approach unlawfully to my kingdom. But hav-
ing waited in vain two or three months, it grew
very tiresome to me.
I now argued with myself, it was better for
me never to attack, hut to remain undiscovered
as long as I possibly could; that an opposite
conduct would certainly prove destructive; for
as it was scarcely to he supposed I could kill
them all, I might either he overpowered by tho
remaining, or that some escaping might bring
thousands to my certain destruction. And, in-
deed, religion took their part so much as to con-
vince me how contrary it was to my duty, to bo
guilty of shedding human blood, innocent as to
me in particular, whatever they are to one ano»
ther; that I had nothing to do with it, but leave
it to the God of all power and dominion, as \
said before, to do therein what seemed conve-
nient to his heavenly wisdom. And, therefore,
on my knees I thanked the Almighty for deli-
vering me from blood-guiltiness, and begged his
protection that I might never fall into their
hands.
Thus giving over an attempt which I had
rashly begun, I never ascended the hill on that
occasion afterwards; I only removed my boat,
which lay on the other side of the island, and
every thin^ that belonged to her, towards the
east, into a little cove, that there might not be
the least shadow of any boat near, nor habita-
tion upon the island. My castle then beqame
my cell, keeping always retired in it, except
when I went out to milk my she-goats, or my
little flock in the wood, which was quite out of
danger; for sure I was, that these savages ne-
ver came here with expectation to find any
thing, and consequently never wandered from
the coast; however, as they might have several
times been on shore, as well betore as after my
dreadful apprehensions, I looked back with
horror to think in what state 1 might have been
had I suddenly met them, slenderly armed, with
one gun only loaded with small shot; and how
great would have been my amazement, if, in-
stead of seeing the print of one man's foot, I
had perceived fifteen or twenty savages, who.
having once set their eyes upon me, by the
swiftness of their feet, would nave left me n<*
possibility of escaping? These thoughts would
sink my very soul, so that I would fall into a
deep melancholy, till such time as the consU
deration of my gratitude to the divine Being,
moved it from my heart. I then fell into a con-
templation of the secret springs of Providence;
aqd how wonderfully we are delivered, when
insensible of it; and when in uncertain mazes
or labyrinths of doubt or hesitation, what se-
cret hint directs us in the right way, when we
intended to go out of it; nay, perhaps contrary
to our business, sense, or inclination.
Anxieties of mind, and the care of my pre-
servation, put a period to all future inventions
and contrivances, either for accommodation, ox
•onvcnienee. I now eared not to J rive a nail,
ehop a stick, fire a gun, or make a fire, lest
either the noise should be heard, or the smoke
discover me. And on this account I used to
burn my earthen ware privatelyin a cave, whioh
I found in the wood, and which 1 made conve-
nient lor that purpose; the principal cause that
brought me here was to make charcoal, so that
I might hake and dress my bread and meat
without any danger.
At that time, a curious accident happened to
me, which I shall now relate.
While I was cutting down some wood, for
niaking my charcoal, I pe/ceived a cavity be-
hind a very thick branch of underwood. Cu-
rious to look into it, I attained its mouth, and
perceived it suilicbnt for me to stand upright
jn.
But when I had entered, having crept, upon
my hands and feet through this strait, I found
the roof higher Uji, I think about twenty ftet.
But surely never had I seen such a glorious
sight before: the roof and walls of this cave
refleeted a hundred thousand lights to me from
my two caudles, as though they were indented
with shining gold, precious stones, or sparkling
diamonds. And indeed it was the most delight'
i'ul cavity or grotto of its kind that cpuld bo
desired, though entirely dark. The floor wa*
dry and level, and had a kind of gravel upon .
it; no nauseous venemous creatures to be seea
there, neither any damp or wet about it. I could
find no fault but in the entrance, and I bejfuu
to think, Hiat even this might be very necessary
for my defence, and therefore resolved to make
it my principal magazine. 1 brought hither two
fowling pieces, and three muskets, leaving only
five pieces at my castle, planted in the nature
of cannon. In a barrel of gun-powder, which
I took out of the sea, I brought away about
sixty pounds of good powder, which was not
damaged; and this, with a great quantity of
lead for bullets, I remnved irom my castle to
this retreat, now fortified both by art and nature.
I fancied myself now like one of the'giants
of old, who were said to live in caves and holes
among the rocks, inaccessible to any but them.:
selves, or at least, most dangerous to attempt.
And now I defied both the cunning and strength
of the savages, either to find me out, or to hurt
me.
1 think I was now in the twenty-third year.
of my reign, and my thoughts much easier than
formerly, having contrived several pretty amuse-
ments and diversions to pass away the time in
a pleasant manner. By this time, my pretty
Poll had learned to speak English, and pro-
nounce his words very articulately and plain;
bo that for many hours we used to chat together
after a very familiar manner, and he lived no
less than twenty-six years. My dog, which
was nineteen years old, sixteen of which he
lived with me, had died some time ago, of mere
old age. As for rny cats, they multiplied so fast,
that 1 was forced to Hill or drive them into the
woods, except two or Uarec which became my
particular favourites. Besides these, I conti-
nually kept two or three household kids about
me, which I taught to feed out of my hand,
and two more parrots which could talk indif-
ferently, and could call Robinson Crusoe, but not
so excellently as the first, by my not taking so
much pains with them. I had also several sea
fowls which I had wounded and cut their wings;
these growing tame, used to breed among tho
low trees about my castle walls, all of which
made my abode very agreeable.
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy
the enjoyments of this uncertain state of life,
when wo least expect them! It was now the
month of December, and the particular time
in my harvest, which required my attendance
in the fields; when going out pretty early in
the morning, before it was day-light, there ap-
peared to me from the sea shore, a flaming.
light, about two miles from me at the east en5
of the island, where I had observed some sa-
vages had been before, not on the other side,
but to my great affliction it wag on my side of
the island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual
apprehensions, that the savages would perceive
my improvements, I returne4 directly to my
castle, pulled the ladder after me, making all
things look as wild and natural as I possibly
could. In the next place, I put myself in a
posture of defence, loaded my muskets and pis-
tols, and committing myself to God's protec-
tion, 1 resolved to defend mysotf tjil my last
nreatli. Two hours after, impatient for intelli-
gence, I set my ladder up to the side of the
hill, where there was a flat place, and then pul-
ling the ladder after me, ascended to the top,
where laying myself on my belly, with my
perspective glass 1 perceived no less than nine
naked savages, sitting round a small fire, eating
as 1 supposed, human flesh, with their two canoes
hauled on shore, waiting for the flood to carry
them off again. The consternation I was in
at this sight, especially seeing them near me,
was very great; but when T perceived their
coming must be always with the current of the
ebb, f became more easy in my thoughts, be.,
ing fully convinced, that I might go abroad
with security all the time of the flood, if they
were not before landed. And indeed, this proved
just as I imagined; for no sooner did they all
take boat and paddle away, but the tide mado
N. W. When I saw them. gone, I took two
guns upon my shoulders, and placing a couple
of pistols in my belt, with my great sword hang-
ing by my side, I went to the hill, where at
first I made a discovery of these cannibals, and
then saw there had been three canoes more of
the savages on shore at that place, which with
the rest were making over to the main land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me,
when going to the place of sacrifice, the blood,
the bones, and other mangled parts of hu-
man bodies appeared in my sight; and so fired
was I with indignation, that I was fully resolved
to use my lire arras ip endcavourinj to check
tlieir cruel practices, though I lost my life in the
execution. It then appeared to me, that the
visits which they make to this island are not
very frequent, it being fifteen months before
they came again; but still I was very uneasy,
by reason of the dismal apprehensions of their
surprising me unawares: nor dared I offer to
fire a gun on that side of the island, where
they used to appear, lest taking the alarm,
they might return with many hundred canoes,
and then, God only knows in what manner
I should have made my end. Thus was I a
year or more before I saw any of these de-
vouring cannibals again.
But, to wave this, the following accident,
which demands attention, for a while diverted
my thoughts from these cannibals.
On the 16th of May (according to my
wooden calendar) the wind blew exceedingly
hard, accompanied with abundance of thunder
and lightcing all day, and .succeeded by a very
stormy night. I had gone to bed at my usual
time, but finding it impossible to sleep, I arose
and having stirred up the embers of my fire,
sat down to my Bible. Whilst I was seriously
pondering upon it, I was suddenly alarmed
with the noise of a gun, which I conjectured
was fired upon the ocean. Such an unusual
surprise made me start up in a minute; when,
with my ladder ascending the mountain as be.
fore, that very moment, a flash of fire pre-
saged the report of another gun, which I pre-
sently heard, and found it was from the put of
the sea where the current drove roe away, I
could not but then think, that this must be a
ship in distress, and that these were the melatt-
choly signals for a speedy deliverance. Great,
indeed, was my sorrow upon this occasion; but
my labours to assist them must have proved al-
together vain and fruitless. However, i brought
together all the dry wood that was at hand, and
making a pretty large pile, sot it on fire on the
hill. I was certam they plainly perceived it,
by their firing another gun as soon as it began
to blaze, and after that, several more from the
same quarter. All night long,, I kept up my
fire; and when the air cleared up, I perceived
something a great way at sea, directly E. but
could not distinguish what it was, even with
my glass, the weather being so very foggy out
at sea. However, keeping my eyes directly
fixed upon it, and perceiving it did not stir, 1
presently concluded it must be a ship at an-
chor, and so very hasty was I to be satisfied,
that, taking my gun, I wont to the S. W. part
of the island, to the same rocks where I had
been formerly driven away by the current; in
which time the weather being perfectly cleared
up, to my great sorrow, I perceived the wreck
of a ship cast away upon those hidden rocks T
had found when I was out with my boat; and
which, by making a kind of eddy, were the
occasion of' my preservation.
When I considered seriously every thing
concerning this wreck, , and could perceive no
* , •* .....
109
jfaom to tupposa any of them sated. { cannot
explain, by any possible forco of words, what
longing* my aoul felt on this occasion, often
breaking out in this manner. O that thero
had been but two or three, nay, even one per-
son saved, that we might havo lived together,
conversed with, and comforted one another,
and so much were my desires moved, that
when I repeated those words, "Oh! that
*' there had been but one!" my hands would
clench together, and my fingers press tho
'ms of my hands so close, that, had any
b thing been between, they would have crush-
it, while my teeth would strike together,
find set against each other so strong, that it
required aomo time for me to part them.
Till the lattyear of my being on this island,
I never knew whether or not any one had been
saved out of this ship. I had the affliction,
*omo time after, to see the corpso of a drowned
hoy como on shore, at the end of the island
which was next tho shipwrock; there was no-
thing on him but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair
of open.kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
.shirt, but no particular mark to guess what
nation ho was of. In his pocket wore tw••
pieces of eight, and a tobacco pipe, tho last
of which I preferred much more than I did (hp
first. And now tho calmness of the sea tempted
mo to venturo out in my boat to this wreck, t;ot
only to get somethingnVc »<ary out of the ship,
hut in hopes that some lining creature ip'^nt
be on board, whoso life I might preserve, 'i ins;
(i
had suA ari ^nfla'en'ce^ponnaV rhirirl, 'Aiit'ifi?-
mcdiutely I went home', ah(K|n,erfaVe#;VvyW'
tiling necessary 'for :fhe: Tbya$, xHrrying 'en
board my boat,' provisions of'alt ports', with
some fresh water, and a compass; so putting
off, T paddled the canoe along the shore, tfll I
came to the N; E. part of the inland, from
whence I was to launch info the'oce^n; huf
here the current ran so' violently, and appeared
so terrible, that my heart began to fall me:;
foreseeing, that if I was driven intb any: of
these currents; I might be carried.hot Only Out
of the reaclf.br ;sight of th« islan'd; bat evert
inevitably losf rrr'thc surges of tile dceart. , , '"
'So oppressed' was I at these troWble^, that!
gave over my enterprise, sairrri'g . to . a little
creek on the shore,' where, stepping ont, I sai
me down oa 'a rising' bill, veryv'pensive and
thoughtful. I then perceived.tjlat the tide
was turned, aiid;the flood caioe'itfnV 'which made/
it impracticable! 'for red to'go o'uffor so many
hours.
That flight, I reposed myself xts my canoe/
covered with my watch coatinstead of a blanket,
the heavens being my tester. The ireit morning
1 set out with the first of the tide full n<irth, tifi
I felt the benefit of the current, which carried
nie at a great rate eastward,' yet not with such
impetuosity as before, nor so as to take frorfi
me all government of my canoe";' so that in two
hours 1 came up to the wreck, which appeared to
me a'mOst melancholy sight, ft sftemcd to be a
Spanish Vessel fcy its building, stuck fast between
Hi
fnclcs; her stem and quarters beater)' fo-
es by the sea: libr main'-mast and fore-mait
^.c•vJ1 brought off by the board; that is, broken
smiW. As I approached nearer, 1 perceived
a dogon board, who', seeing nre coming, yelp-
ed and cried: and no sooner did I call hini,
buttire poor creature jumped mfo the sea, out
of which I took him up almost famished with
hunger and thirst; so that when i gave him a
cake of bread, no ravenous wolf could devour
it more greedily; and he drank to that degree
of fresh water, that he would hare burst him-
self had I suffered him,
The first sight T met.with, in the ship/ wefe
two men drowned in the cock-room or fore^
castle, inclosed in one another's arms.: hence I
very' probably' supposed, tlmt when the vessel
struck in the storm, so high and incessantly did
the waters break in and over her, that the men
not being able to bear it, Were strangled by the
constant rushing of the waves. There were
several' casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy
I could not be positive, which lay in the lower
hold, as were plainly perceptible by the ebbing
out of the water, yet were too large for mo to
•retend to meddle with: likewise 1 perceived
veral chests, which I supposed belonged tu•
seamen, two of which I took into my boat,
,•Jiout examining what was in them. What
lecuirie of, the rest of the sailors I conld not
certainly tell; and all her riches signified no-
thing at that time to any body.
Searching farther, I R/and a cask, containing
about twenty gallons' full of U<$uor, which: wfth
some labour I got into my hoat; Jii a ea^tn
.iff re. several muskets, which I let remain there;
> but took away with me a groat powder horn,
tilth about four pounds of ponder in it I
took also a fire shovel and torjgs,,,,wlith two-
kettles, a copper pot to make chololatc,, and a.
grid-iron, all which I thought must;prove high-
ly usoful to me, especially the fire shovel ana
tongs. And so with the cargo, accompanied by
*uy 4og, I came away, the tide serving for that
purpose; and the sarao evening about an hour
within night, I attained the island, after the
greatest toil and fatigue imaginable.
That night I reposed my weary limbs in
<lie boat, revolving tho noxt morning to har.
bour what I had gotten, in my new found .
ftnder-ground grotto; and not carry my cargo-
Jlonie to my ancient castle. Having refreshed
myself, and got all my effects on shore, I next
.proceeded to examine the particulars; and so>
tapping the cask, I found the liquor to bo a
kind of rum, but not like what we had at th»
Brazils, nor indeed near so good. At the.
opeuing of the chests several things appeared
very useful to mo; for instance, I found in.
one, a vpry fine case of bcttles, containing the
finest and best sort of cordial waters -r each
bottle held about three pints, and was curiously
. tipt with silver. 1 found also two pots full of
the chuice.it-woctmcat.;, and two more which the
water had utterly spoiled. There were like-
wise sovcral good shirte, exceedingly welcon.e
... ;.
to me, and about one dozen and a half of white
linen hankerchiefs, and coloured neckcloths,
the former of which was useful for wiping my
face in a hot day; and in the till, I found three
hogs of money, in one of which, decently wrapt
up in a piece of papor, were six doubloons of
gold; and some small bars and wedges of the
same metal, which I believe might weigh near
a pound. In the other chests, I only found
some clothes of very little value, and about
two pounds of fine glazed powder, in three
flasks, kept as J believe for charging their fow-
ling pieces on any occasion, so thatj on the'
whole I made very little of this voyage. The
money was indeed as mere dirt to me, useless
and unprofitable; all which I would have freely
parted with for two nr three pair of English
shoes and stockings, things that for many yean
I had no^worn, except those which I had lately
taken off the feet of the unfortunate men I found
drowned in the wreck, yet not so good as Eng-
lish shoes, either for ease or service. I found
no gold in the seeond chest; so concluded that
what 1 took from the first belonged to an officer,
tho latter appearing to have a much inferior peri1
son for its owner. However, as despicable as:
tho money seemed, I likewise lugged it to my
cave, laying it up securely, as I did the rcsf
of my cargo, and intending to seek out, and ro.
torn it to the family of the unfortunate owner,
if ever I should return to Europe: and after I
had done all this, as there was nothing more:
aboard whieh I cotfld remove, I returned back
g 3
As my boat, rowing, or paddling Her along till
) came to my old harbour, where I carefully
laid her up, and so made the best of my way
to my ca'jtle. XVhon'! arrived tliere, every
tiling seemed safe and.quiet; so that now, my
only business was to repose lnyself after my
wonted manne/, and take care of my dom.es-
.tic affairs But though I might havqhved very
«asy, as waning for nothing absolutely need-
fai; yet still I w»s djok vigilant lifim usual,
.upon account of the jsavages, never going much
abroad; :or,; if I did*, it was to the east part of
the island, where 1 was well assured that the
savages ;iever cauu>, and where I might not be
t ron I lied to carry such a heavy load of weapons
for .wip defence, as J thought accessary to do
jt'I;livent the other way.. . :,\.t
e .T,wo years djfl. 1 live in this anxious condi-
tion, in. all jyhich. time, contrary to my former
resnAuii^ns, my . head was filled with nothing
but projects arid deigns jjow \ migljt escape
from this island j.and ,so.ra<jch were ray wansi
<Wing thoughts .hfinfe vporta rambling expedi,
ijon, tlmt.Jnul , 1 had the same boat that \ went
from S^le^,iR,! I *jj9«ld.bave ventured onoo more
to :the un.c^riajnty of the raging oceajj, ;v\ . ..
.• ^Iayirig,rreitirfd to njy {astk. after my late
vjjyage to'thp »hi», ojyl;bpat laid up arjd w-
e.ure<J, as.jisija],, and nly. condition the same
as before extent being jjicbor*. thought \\ hwt
as little soccasion for riches as the Indians of
Peru had fort gftld, before ljie.£panjards,erihie.
among th«ra,t. |ine ejtgul 'fft Marc^ ibeibg.^ja
', ^"
rainy season, in, the four and twentieth year ot
, my;solitude, 1 lay down to .sleep, very vyell hi
health, without distemper, pain, or uucommo;i
uueasin.ess either of body or mind; yet not-
withstanding, I could not compose myself to
sleep all the night long, All this tedious while,
it is impossible to express what innumerable
thoughts came into my head. I traced quite
over, the whole history of my life in miniature,
from my utmost remembrance of things till J
came to this island; and then proceeded to
examine etery action and passage that had
occurred .since I had taken possession of my
kingdom. In my Reflections upon the latter, [
was comparing the happy posture of my affairs
in the beginning of my reign, to this life of
anxiety, fear, and concern, since I had .disco-
vered lie print of a foot hi the sand; and that
while I continued without apprehension. I was
incapable of feeling the dread and terror I now
Sjuflered. 1 low thankful rather ought I to hayo
been for the knowledge of my danger,, since
tjio greatest happiness a man can be possessed.
,of, is to have suiiicient time to provide against
ii? How stupendous is the goodness of l'rovi
dence, which sets such narrow bounds to the
sight and knowledge of human nature, that
while men walk in the midst ql so many dan-
gers, 1hey are kept serene anil calm, by having
the; events of things hjd from their eyes, and
knowing nothing of those many dangers that
surround Iheiu. till perhaps they are dissipated
'an4 vanished away. m
%Mi. vA «•p iniif «.,* , .:.'! a yl•,i
Aboiii a year and a half after, one morning
early, I was very much surprized by seeing no
less than "five canoed all on shore together, on
my side of the island, and the savages that be-
longed to them all landed and out of liay sight.
Upon which, much dispirited and perplexed, I
lay btill in my castle; which, however, I put
in a proper posture fof an attack j and, having
formerly provided all that was necessary, was
soon ready to enter upon an engagement, should
they attempt it. Having waited for some time,
m}v impatient temper would let me bear it no
longer; !set my guns at the foot of my ladder;
andj as usual, ascended up to the top of the hill
at two stages, standing, however, in such a
manner, that my head did not appear above the
hill, so that they could not teasily perceive me:
and here, by the assistance of my perspective
gloss, I observed no less than thirty w number
around a fire, feasting upon what meat they
had dressed: how they cooked it, Or what it
was, I could not then perfectly tell; but they
were all dancing and capering about the flames;
rising many frightful and barbarous gestures.
But while, with a curious eye, I was behold-
ing these wretches, my spirits sunk within me;
when 1 perceived them drag two miserable crea-
tures from the boats, to act afresh the dread*
lul tragedy, as I supposed they had done be-
fore. It was not long before one of them fell
upon the ground, knocked down, as I suppose,
with a club or wooden swoid, for that was theii
manner: whih' h«b or three others went imme-
diately te wejJr. r%if^ig him opqa for their
cookery, and then fell to devour him as tliey
had done the former: while the last unhappy
captive was' loft by himself, till such time us
thoy wore ready lor him. The poor creature
looked round him with a sorrowful eye, trem.i
Wing at the thoughts of death; yet, seeing him.
self a little at liberty, nature, that very moment,
as it were, inspired him with hopes of life: lie
started away from them, and ran, with incredi-
ble swiftness, along the sands, directly to that
jiurt of the coast where my aneient and vener.,
able castle stood.
Yeu may well imagine I was dreadfully af-
frighted upon this occasion, when, as 1 thought,
they pursued him in a whole body, all running
towards my palace And now, indeed, I ex-
pected, that he would certainly fly to my grove
for protection. However, my spirits beginning
to recover, I still kept upon my guard; and I
now plainly perceived, there were hut three
men out of the number that pursued him, T
was infinitely pleused at the swiftness with
which the poor creature ran from his pursuers^
gaining so much ground upon them, that I
plainly perceived, could he thus hold out for
hulf an hour, there was not the least doubt but
he would save his life from the power of his
er.emies.
Between them and my castle, there was a
creek, tlie very same which I sailed into with
ail my effects from the wreck of the ship, on
the steep banks of which I very much feared
the poor victim would be taken, if he could
ijiOt swim for his escape: But soQnwxis I out of
pain for him, whoft I perceived lie made no-
thing of it, though at full tide, but, with an
intrepid courage, spurred on by the sense of
danger, he plunged into the flood, swimming
over in about thirty strokes, and then laading,
ran with foe same inprc(»ble strength and
^wiftness as before, When the three pursuers
came to the creek, two of tjvem, who, J per-
c<fijjed,could not swim, happily for themselves,
Returned to' their com.pany; wliile th(g iQfhpr,
with an equal courage, but much less ^wiltness,
attained the other side, as plough he was.re-
solved never to give over the pursuit. And
now or never, I thought was the tiruq for me to
procHre rne a;Servant, companion or assistant:
and earnestly did I hope that Providence might
pcrrnit nj0 to bo the instrument to says this, poor
Creature's life. I immediately descended my
two ladders with the greatest expedition; I tqolj.
ijp my two guns, which 1 said before were at
}he bottom of them: and; getting up again with
tbe,same haste towards tlje,l|ill, 1 made nearer
the. sea. t'(,fn a word, taking a shortcut down the
hill, 1 interposed between the pursuer and pur-
sued, hallooing aloud to the latter, who ventur-
ing to look back, was, no doubt, as much terri-
fied at me as at the enemy irom whom ho fled.
1 beckoned to him with my hand to return back,
and in the mean tjmo, advanced towards the
pursuer. I was very unwilling to fire, lest the
rest 3hould hear, though, at that distance, I
^ues|ion.cd whether they could or no t and,

bj tag out of sight of the smoke, they co*ld nut
easily have known what to make of it. The
ravage Mopped as if he bad been amazed:
when, advancing towards him, I could per-
ceive him take his bow from his back, and,
after fixing an arrow to it, preparing to shoot
at me, and, without dispute, he might have
lodged it in my breast; but in tb» necessnr
case for self-preservation, 1 immediately tirotl
and shot him dead, just as his hand Wo,s going
to draw the fatal string. All this while, the
savage who had fled before, stood still, and had
the satisfaction to see his enemy killed, as he
thought, who designed to take uway his life:
so «<rtrighted was he with the fire and noise of
i .« piece, that he stood as it were like loot's
» lie, fixed and immoveable, without either sense
<r motion. This obliged me to halloo to him
i.gain, making the pluinost signs I could to him
tj diaw nearer. 1 pereeiwd he understood
these tokens, by his approaching to me a little
way, when, as if afraid I should kill him too,
he stopped again. Several times did he advance,
; iul us often stop in this manner, till,'coming
more to my view, I perceived him trem'"
as if he was to undergo the same fate,
which, I looked upon him with a smilii _
teuance, and still beckoned to him; at length
he came close to me, and kneeled down, kissed
the ground, laid his head upon it, and taking
m j by the foot, set it upon his head; which as £
£ a token of swearing
.uderstood afterward?
to be n>y slave for ever. I lock hinT tip,'
and .toking ruueh of him, encouraged liitu iri'
the bost manner I could.
The greatest astonishment that my new ser-
vant conceived, was at the manner of killing
the savage at such a distance, without a bow
and arrow: and such was his longing desire to
know it, that he first pointed to the dead car-
case, and then made signs to me to grant him
leave to go to it. Upon which 1 bid him go,
and as well as I could, made him sensible I
granted his request. But when he came there,
how wonderiully was he struck with amaze-
ment! First, he turned it on One side, then on
another, wondering he could perceive no quan-
tity of blood, he bleeding inwardly: and after
sufficiently admiring the wound the bullet had
nmdo in the breast, he took up h's bow and'
arrows, and came back again; upon which I
turned to go away, making signs to him to
follow, lost the rest missing their compunion,
might come in pursuit of him, and this 1 found
he understood very well, by making me to
understand that his design was to bury it, that
it might not be seen; and which, by signs again,
] made him sensible I very much approved of.
Immediately, he fell to work, and never wan
grave digger more dexterous in the work than
ho was; for in an instant, as 1 might say, he
scraped ajargo hole in the sands with his hands,
sufficient to bury it in; there he dragged it,
and, without any ceremony, covered H over.
1 then called him away, and instead of carrying
him . to lny.cave op the; %t^r, pajt. of the
fslwd. . ;,;;•,i J 1 i,;, .!i 4-,,' ,
.Weary and.faint, hungry, and thirsty,,iwn.
dpubtodly,nuist this poor ereaturej.be, .support-
ed chiefly by,tb,e vivacity,of spirit,,and uncnnj- .
noon transports of joy Uu$ Jh^s deliverance ocr .
casioned- Hcfe I gave bin* h/jjadpnd, a:hunch of'
raisins to eat, and:wate( to drink,.on .which
lie fed'^eiy fheer.fhh'y, ,to j his exceeding re-
fijeshmept,, ,| then madehiu^a.conveujept Lx^l,
with a parcel of rice straw, and .a blaulvet.upf)n ,
'it, (abedwljjch I used niyself soinetitnes) and
HQjntingi^tn, jt, made signs.for ljiui to jie
down to shjem.upoB; wljich tlje poor, .creature
went to take a welcome repose, r y,. .:; v .
Indeed he was.a very con ely, handsome,
young fellow, .extremely well made, with
straight Jong ljmbs, not . too large, tall, and
well shaped, and, as near a* I could reckon,
about twenty-six years of age. His counte-
nance bad nothing in it fierce or, surly, h"t
rather a sort of majesty in his face; and .
especially when he smjled, ho had .oil the,
sweetness of an European. His hair ,was not.
curled like wqol, ,as many of the blacks are,
but long apd black, with the most beautiful,
yet careless tresses spreading over his shoul-
ders. He had a very high and large forehead,
with a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in
his eyes, His skin was not so tawny as that
of the JVmcricans; but rather .of a Jight dun,

''live rolour, that had something agreeable in
It, raoHjjh not very easy to give a description
oh Ijis (ace was' round and plump, willi a
MiiaH nose, very different from the flatness of
the negroes, a pretty small niouth, thin lips, fine
teeth, very well set, and white as the driven
Wow. in a. word, such handsome features,
and e'.snet syinpictry jn every part, made mo
]?3
flian pi'iner. for a person fit less dignity as (
thought, eouid not, possess such grace and
accomplishments.
Ife had not, I think, slept above an hour,
when he awakened again, and while 1 was.
fuilklnj• niy goats hard %. out he runs from
the. cave towards me in my enclosure, and lay-
fbg himself down on the,ground in the lowest
prostration, made all the aulic gestures ima-
ginable, to express his thankfulness fo me for
Lehig his deliverer. lie laid down, his head
, ^gaiu upon the ground, close to my toot, aud
sci rtiy other foot upon, his head, as he had
flone before, making all the signs of subjection,
servitude, and submission imaginable, to let
me understand he would serve me as long as
Lis life endured. As I understood him in
many things, 1 niade him sensible I was very
well pleased with him; and, in a little time, I
twgan to speak to him, and tea,eh him how to
talk to nic again.
In the lirst place, I made him understand
his name was to be Friday, because it was upon
that day I gaved his life; I then taught him to
Hay Master,'which \ mado him sensiolo was to
be my name; I likewise taughti him to say yes
and no, and to know what they meant, 1 gave
Jiim some milk in an earthen pot, making hinf
view me while I drank it before Turn, and
Soaked my bread in it; I gave lam a cake of
bread, and caused him to soak it likewise, to
which he readily consented, making signs of the
greatest satisfaction imaginable.
All that night did [ keep him there; hut no
sooner did the morning lig|it appear, thau I
Ordered him to arise and come along with me,
with certain tokens that .t would give him soiim
clothes like mine, at which he seemed >,<, y
glad, being stark naked, without the ' leu t
Covering whatever. As we passed by tlie piano
where the man had been interred, my mail
pointed directly to his grave, showing mo tim
marks that ho had made to find it again, x^h'tJ
Hie to understand by signs, that we should dig
Mill up and devour him. At this I appeared
extremely displeased, expressed my utmost
ubhorrenco, as if I would vomit at tue appre-
hensions of it, beckoning wjth my hand to eomu
away, which he did with the greatest rev*.-
ronce and submission, Alter this, I conducted
liim to the top of the hill, to view if the rest
of the savages were yet remaining there; but
when I looked through Vny perspective glass,
I could see no appearance of them, nor of
their eanocs j so that it was very evident they
never minded tlielr depended companion wliom
we had slain; which if they had, they would
surely have searched for, or left ono boat
behind for him to follow, after he returned
ftom his pursuit.
Curiosity, and a desire of satisfaction, aril*
Mating me with courage to tee this scene of
Awrbarity, I took my man Friday with toe to
the place of their bloody entertainment. But
when I came there, I was struck with tho ut-
most horror at so dreadful a spectacle, whilst
Friday was no way concerned about it, being
ito driltrt in his turn one of these devourers. Her*
lay several human bones, there several pieces of
mangled flesh, half eaten, mangled and scorchw
ed, together with quantities of bloodj which, the
sun and wind had dried Up. As 1 was musing
on this dreadful sight, Friday took all the pains
he could, by particular signs, to mako me un.
derstand, that they had brought over four pri-
soners to feast upon, three of whom they had
eaten up, and that he was the fourth, pointing
to himself, that there having been a bloody
battle between them and his great king, in
the just defence of whom he was taken pri-
«oner, with many others; all of these were car-
ried off to different places to be devoured by
their conquerors; and that It was his fortune
to be brought hither by these wretches for tho
very same purpose, i .>'', *" , '">,•'"
After I was made sensible of these tilings, I
caused Friday to gather those horrid remains

jmd lay them together upon a heap, which I
ordered to be set on tire, and burnt them to
.ashes; my man, however, still retained the na-
ture of a cannibal, having a hankpring stomach
alter some of the flesh; but such an extreme
abhorrence did I express at the least appear-
ance of it, that he durst not but conceal it: tot
J made him very sensible, that if he attempted
p.ny such tiling, [ would certainly shoot him„ri;
This being done, I carried my man with me,
to my castle, and gave him a pair of linen
drawers, which 1 had taken out of the
poor gunner's chest before mentioned; and
which, with a bitle alteration, fitted him very
wejl; in the next place 1 made him a jerkin
(>$ goat skin, such as my skill was able to raa.
flage, and indeed I thought myself ihun a tole-
rable good tailor. , ] gave him also a cap,
which I made of a hare's skin, very couvenhwt
and fashionphle. Thus being clothed tolerably
well, nfy man was no l/?ss proud of his habit,
than 1 was at seeing iiim in jt. Indeed lie
went very. awkwardly at lirst, but by use, at
length he took to them very well.
My next cgnx;ern w;is, whore I sliould lod£t
him; and that 1 might do well by him,
,and yet bo perfectly easy myself, [ erected a
lent for him in tint vacant plane between my
two fortifications, in the inside of tlie last, and
the outside of the first; and as du re, was an
entrance or door into my cave, J made a for-
mal framed door-case; and a '1 <.<'r to open on
the inside; 1 barred it up in the nijjht
X.mc, .taking in rcy ladders too, so that, were
piy rain to prove (treacherous, there could
,bt no way to conic at me in the inside of my
* innermost wall, without making so much'noiso
in getting over, tliat ii must needs waken me;
for my first wall had now a complete roof over it
of Idngjpoles, spreading over niy tent, and leaning
up to the .side of the mountain, which was
again laid across with smaller sticks instead of
laths, and thajcljed over to a great thickness
with the rico straw, which w.as as strong as
reeds; and at the hole of the place, left on jmrT
pose to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed
a kind of a trap door, which if it had been
attempted on the outside, would not have
opened at all, but have fallen down, and made
a great noise: and as to my weapons, every
night I took them all to my bed side.
But there was no ocpasion for this precau-
tion; for surely never master )iad a more sin-
cere, faithful and loving servant than Friday
proved to me. Without passion, sullenness,
or design, perfectly obliging and engaging, his
affections, were as much tied to me, as those of
a child to his parents; and I fnjgfe venture t»
say, he would have laid down his life for the
faving of mipe, upon any occasion whatever.
And, indeed, the many testimonies he gave mo
of this, sufficiently convinced me that I had no
occasion to use all these precautions.
1 had not been above two or three days rc-
to my castle, when it became my chief
j oi Li'.. ',; '.i &wcflo)no...i

design to bring Friday off from his horrid way
of feeding; and, to take from him that inhu-
man relish he by habit had' been accustofhed to i
thus T thought it my duty to lot him taste other
tlesh, which might the rather tempt him to the
name abhorrence, I so often expressed against
their ciiuel way of living. Upon wtildn;, otlo
morning I took him put with me, with an in-
tention to kill a kid emt of the flock, and bring
it home, and dress it As I was going, I per-
ceived a she-goat lying down in the shade, anfl
tWO' young kids sitting by her. Immedi-
ately I catched hold or my man Friday, and
bidding lihn stand still, and not strr, ,1 pre-
sented ray piece and shot due of the kids.
My poor servant, who had at a distance per-
ceived me kill his adversary, and yet <)id not
know by what means, or how it was done,
stood trembling and surprised, and looked so
amaaed, that I thought he* would have sunk
into the earth. He did not see the kid I
aimed at, or observe I had killed it, but ripped
up his wuisooat to see if he was not wounded,
thinking my resolution was tn kill him; for
coming to me, ho fell on bis knees, earnestly
pronouncing many things which I did not un-
derstand the meaning of; which, at' length I
perceived was, that 1 would not tuko away his
life. •'
Indeed so much compassion had I for this
creature, that it was with difficulty I refrained
.from tears. But, however, as another sort of
countenance was necessary, and to convince
liiui Umt t would do him no harm, 1
umiling, by the hand, then laughed at him, am
pointing to the kid which I had slain, made
aigns to him to feteh it; which accordingly he
did. No less curious was he in viewing how
the creature was lulled, than he was before in
beholding the Indian; which, while he was ad-
miring, I charged my gun again, and presently
perceived a great fowl liko a hawk, perching
upon a tree within shot; and, therefore, to let
Friday understand what I was going to do, I
called him to me again, pointing at the fowl,
which I found to be a parrot. I made him un-
derstand thai I would shoot and kill that bird;
accordingly I fired, and bado him look, when
immediately he saw the parrot fall down.
Again ho stood like one amazed, notwithstand-
ing all I had said to him: and the more con-
founded he was, because he did not porceivo
me put any thing in my gun. As for it in
particular, he would not so mueh as touch it
tor several days after; but would come and
communicate his thoughts to it, and talk to it,
as if the senseless piece had understood and
answered him ; all this I could perceive him
to do, when ho thought my back was turned,
the chief intent of which was, to desire it
not to kill him, as I afterwards came to
understand.
I never strove to prevent his admiration,
nor hinder him from the comical gestures he
used on such occasions; but when his
him to run Jarid fetch the parrot that I hid
shot; which accordingly ho did, staying some?
time longer than usual, by leasoh that the bird
not being quite dead, had fluttered some way
farther from the place where she fell. In the
mea;. time, as he was looking for her, I took
the advantage of charging my grtn again, that
so I might bo ready for any other matt thai
offered; but nothing more occurred at the
time. So I brought home the kid, and the
same evening took off the skin, and divided the
etcrcase as weH as I cosld. Part of the flesh,
I stewed and boiled, in a pot I made for this
purpose. And then, spreading my table, I
sat down, giving my man some of it to eat, who
was wonderfully pleased, and seemed to like
it very well: but what was the most surprising
to him was to see me eat salt with it: upon
which he made mo understand, that tho salt
was very bad for me; when, putting a little
into his mouth, he seemed to nauseate it in such
a manner, as to spit and sputter at it, and
then washed his mouth with fresh water: but

for want of it, as he had done at it; yet
all this proved of'no signification to Friday;
and it was a long while before he could endure
any salt in his meat or broth, and even then
but a Small quantity.
Thus, having fed* him sufl
was resolved to feast him with' a roastr*!

raon artifice which many of the people? .
England have J that is, to set two poles upon
each side of the fire, and one across on the top,
hanging the meat thereon with a string, arid
so turning it round continually, illf it was
sufficiently roasted: This practice canse'd great
admiration in my man Friday, being quite
Another way than that to which the savages
were accustomed. But when.he barrfb to taste
the Sweetness and tenderness of the flesh, he
expressed his entire satisfaction in many dif-
ferent ways. As I could not but understand
his meaning, you may be sure. I was as won-
derfully pleased, especially when he made it
also' very plain to nie, that ho. would never,
while he lived, eat man s flesh more.
It was now high time I should set my new'
servant ta work; so next day I put him to'
heat out some cVjrn, and sift it in the same
manner as I had done before. And really the
fellow.was very quick and handy in the execu-
tion of any thing I ordered. him to' go about.
I made him understand that it was to make'
bread for us to eat, and afterwards let hint
sve me bake it. In short, Ire did every thing
as I ordered hitn, in a little time, as well as I
could perform it myself.
Hut now, considering that I had two 1

should provide moro ground for my barvostj
and plant a larger quantity of com than 1
commonly used to do; upon which J marked
out a larger piece of land, fencing it in the
same manner as I had done before; in the
execution of which I must give Friday this
good word, that no man could work moro
handily, or with better will than he did} and
'When I mado him sensible that it was for
bread to serve him as well as mo, he then very
passionately made me understand, that ho
thought I had much more labour On his ac*
count, than I had for myself; and that no
pains or diligence should be wanting in him,
if I would but direct him in those works
wherein ho might proceed.
I must certainly own, that this was the most
pleasant year I ever had in the island; for
after some time, Friday began to talk pretty
well, and understood the names of those things
which I was want to call tor, and the places
where I used to send him. So that my long
silent tongiw, which had been so many years
unused, except when praying to God, or con-
versing with my Poll, now began to be occu-
pied, in teaching, and talking to my man
Friday; for indeed I had such a singular satis-
faction iu the fellow himself, so innocent did his
simple and unfeigned honesty appear more and
moro every day, that I really began pDtircly
to love him; and for his part 1 believe there*
was no love lost, and that his
and his affections mote placed upon mo, than.
any other object whatsoever ariiong. his own-
countrymen^, n,i,.;; .... .
I once had a great desire to try if he'
had any hankering inclination to his own
country again; and by this time, having taught
hi(fl English so well, that hn could give me
fclerable answers to any question which I d<v
manded, 1 asked him, whother tflat nation to
Which he belonged ever conquered in battle?
This question made Friday smile, and to which:
Re answered, yes, yest,. tte always fiffht the bet-
ter; as much as to say, they always got the
better in fight. You say, said I, that you al-
ways fight the better; why then, Friday, how
came you to bo taken prisoner?'
Friday. But for all that my nation boat?
rtnioh.
Master. How,.say you, boat? if your na-
tion, beat them, how came you to be taken?
Friday. They moro many mans than my
ration in the place whcro me was, tliey take
one, two, three, and me; my nation much
©verbeat them in the yonder place where mc
no was, there my nation mans beat one, two,
three, great many.
Master. Then why did not your men re-
cover you from the hands of your enemies?
Friday. They run one, two, or three, and.
mo; tliey make all go into the canoe; my tui-
tion have no canoe tnat time.
Master Tis very well, Friday; but what
a
does your nation tlo with the .p'risofiefs they
take? Do they carry them away and eat
them as they have done? '; '•'.'' f
Friday. Yes, yes, my nation eat roans too-,
feat npyail.ti oi.--. .'i./:.; *. I.:. f«:; •
Maker; T«' what place lo they1 catry therri
to be devoured * '' :..''''
Friday. Go to other nations where they
134
Masttr. Do they bring thom hither?
Fridayi Yes, come over hither, come? over
other place. , . , .' ,' :t , ' .',,' ,
Master. And have you boen with them here,
Friday?
Friday. Yes, me been here, (pointing to the
northwest of the island,, being the side where
134
Thus having gotten what acct-.mt 1 could
from my man, I plainly understood, that he
had been as bad as any of the rest of the can-
nibals, having been formerly among the sa-
vages who used to come on shore on the
farthest part of the island, upon the same
bloody occasions as he was brought hither for:
and some time after, I carried him to that place
where ho pointed; and no sooner did he come
there, but he presently knew the ground, sig.
nifying to me that he was once there wheu
they ate up twenty men, two women and a
young child; but as he could not explain the
number in English, he did it by so many
stones in a row, making a sign to me to count
them. ', ', ', ;''.; "''',,' ,.)* .\m
jtbe island to the shore, and whether canoes
were not often h>?t in the ocean? To which he
answered, there was no danger; that no ca-
noes were eve* lost; hut that after a little
ivay out to the sea, there was a strong eur^1
rent, and a wind always one way, in the afteri
nnon. This I thought at first to .be uo. more
than tho scte of tide, of gomg out or coming -
in; hut I afterwards understood it was pcea-'
sjoned by thesgreat drapght artd refluk of the
mighty river Oroonoko, in the inoiiihor gnl]>h
of which, I .imagined'my kingdom: lay; aha
that the land which I perceived fo ihe W. and
K. W. niustbeithe great island Trinidad, ori:
jthe north of the river. ';.' ,' '.'
Well, you may be pure, this knowledge,
which the imperfect information . of my.man
had led n.o to, was very comfortable lb me,
and made nip so curinus Ms 4o.auk him, how I
might depart.from this island, and get amongst
those white nien? He told , toe, Yea, Yes, I
might. go ttcp. cmioes. In two canoes';
tjioughl J, what does any maf moan:? AM',1
indeed it was a long .time before 'I understoj&dr
his meaning, which was, that jt must l*e a'large
boat, a* liig as tw^caboe)v,ia(bl« totear'With the'
waves',mud.not sb Uahjp to bu overwhelmed as.
My next question was, how far it was from
... IsbelUo'citrfera js;; jop!*tate of life hut wlirtt
may be hiippy. jf.people would but endeavour
for their part to make itsoi -; We not tHo
happiest man who has the most riches, but hq
ffchat.is content with what he hath. Before I
had my servant, I thought myself miserable
till I had him; and now that I had enjoyed the
happy benefits of him, I still complained, and
heggod a deliverance from a place of retire-
ment, ease, and plenty, where Providence in
*uch u signal manner had blessed me. In a
word, from this time I entertained some hopes,
that ono time or other I might find an oppor-
tunity to make my escape from this island,
and that this poor savago might be a great
furtherance thereto, u,.',•' . ~, ' ,'
I now began to instruct my servant, in the
saving knowledge of tho true Deity, in which
the, directions of God's holy Spirit assisted me:
Friday, said I, you must know, that before
this world was made, there was an Almighty
Power existing, by whoso power, all things
wore made, and whoso majesty shall have no
end. To be glorified and adored by beings of
a heavenly nature, hp created angels and arch-
angels, that is, glorified spirits resembling him-;
self to encompass his throne, eternally sing-
ing forth his praise, in the most heavenly
snunds and divine harmony^;."j'
I found it easy enough to'imprint the right
notions in his mind of God; for nature assisted
me in all my arguments, to show him plainly
tho necessity of a groat and overruling, govern-
ing power, of a secret directing Providence,
and of the equity and reasonableness of paying
adoration to ttir Creator. .': .;e i.
A ' :. .ii • .( nil 'C.t ., . ., .t :, J' . . i.i
I then entered inlo a long discourse with
him, upon the subject of the world's rodeuiji-
tion by the Saviour of it, apd the doctrine of
repentance preached from heaven, together
with an holy faith |n our blessed Redeemer
Jesus Christ.
JJy the constant application I made of the
Scriptures, as 1 read (hem to my man Friday,
T earnestly endeavoured to make Trim under-
stand every part of tljem as much as lay in my
power. lie also, op the other hand, by his
very serious questions and inquiries, made me
a much hotter .prolicient in Scripture know-
ledge, than I should have been by my qwn
private reading and'study',
You may well suppose, that, by the frequent
discourse we had together, my man and I
became most intimately acquainted, and thaj;
there was very little that I could say, but
what Friday understood; and indeed, he spoke
very fluently, though it was but brqfcen jing-
lish. J how too'k a particular pleasure in re-
lating all my advontures, especially those that
occurred since my being cast nn this island.
] made him understand that wonderful mys-
tery, as he conceived, of gunpowder and,
bullet, and taught him how to snoot. I also
presented to him a knife, which. jveasC(i h'm
exceedingly, making'him a belt, with a frog
hanging thereto,' like those in which we wear
hangers in England; and, instead of a hanger
'4 put in the frog, I gave him a hatchet, which,
was not only as good, but even 'a belter wea-
pon upon many occasions.
* [ next gave him a very particular descrip-
tion of my misfortune in being shipwrecked j
showing him, as near as I could, the pluee
where the ship lay, which bad been gone long
before; but I brought him to the ruins of my
boat, winch, before, my whole strength could
not move, but now was almost rotten and
fallen to pieces. I observed my man Friday to
view this boat with an uncommon curiosity;
which when be bad done, he stood pondering
a great while, and said nothing. At last, said
I, Friday, what makes you ponder so much?
He replied, O master, me see lik,e boat come to*
pfnee af wyi nation.
It was some time, indeed, before I under.:
stood what my man meant; but examining
strictly into \i, J plainly found, that such
another boat, resembling mine, had come la
the country wljere he dwelt; that is to say, by
his farther explanation, that the boat was
driven there through stress of weather.
Indeed Friday answered, my demands very
well, making everything plain to my undern
standing; but beyond pleasure was 1 satisfied
when ho i8ta' me with great warmth and ar-
dour, O master', me save white mansfrom drown;
upon which I immediately asked him, if there
were any white mans, as he called them, in the.
boat; Yes, yes, said he, the boat full, very full
of white mans. How many, Friday, said I,
Hereupon he numbered his fingers, and counted
sjventcen. And when I asked him what oc-
came of them all, and' whether they lived or
not? lie replied, Yes, t/itufer, I hey all. lie?,
they be live among my nation. Th'w information
put fresh thoughts into my head, that the^o
must be the very men who before 1 concluded
, ad been swallowed up in the ocean, after they
had left their ship, that had atmiek upon tlij
rocks of my kingdom, and alter escaping the
fury of the deep, landed upon tho wild short',
and committed themselves to tho fury of tho
devouring Indians.
Tho manner of their cruelties to one an-
other, which consequently, as 1 thought, ruu/jt
bo acted with greater barbarity to strangers,
created in mo a great anxiety, and made me
still more curious to ask Friday concerning
them. He told me, he was sure they still lived
there, having resided among them above four
years, and that the savrges gave them victuals to
Ijve upon. 'But ptay, Friday, said 1, whence
proceeded all thjs good nature ttftd generosity?
flow came it to pass that they' did not till
and eat them, to plcaso their devouring appe-
tites; and occasion ao splendid an ernertain-
ment among them? No, ao, said Friday, they
not kill 'em, they make brother withem; by
which I understand there was a truce 'Qotwejn
them. And then I ha,d a more favourable
opinion of the Indians, upon Friday's uttering
the words: M;f nation t'other nation no eat
man's, but when man's make war fight: as
though ho had said, that Be.ljioi those of his
kingdom, nor any other nations llia£ he knew
of, ever ate their fellow creatures, hut such
as their law of arms allowed to be devoured:
that is, those miserable captives, whose mis-
fortune it was to he made prisoners of war.
Some considerable time after, upon a very
pleasant day, in most serene weather,' my man
and 1 stood upon the top of a hill, on the
island, whence I had once before beheld the
continent of America. Lcould opt'tell imme-
diately what was {he matter: for suddenly
Friday fell a jumping and dancing, as if he
iad been mad; and upon my demanding the
reason of hisliehavour, Oj'ny, said'he, O glad!
ihere see my country, there my nation, there
white mans gather. Apd indeed such a raptu-
rous sense of pleasure appeared in his coun-
tenancei that his eyes had an uncommon
sparkling and brightness, and such a strange
eagerness, as if he had a longing desire to be
m his own country again. This made me not
po well 'satisfied with my man Friday as be-
fore; for by this appearance, I made no dis-
pute', bnf. that if he could get back thither
again, he would not only he unmindful of
what religion, 1 had taught him, but likewise
of the great obligation he owed me for his
wonderful deliverance: nay, that he woula!
not only inform his countrymen of me, hut
accompany hundreds of them to my kingdom;
gnd make me a miserable sacrifice, like those
unhappy wretches taken in battle.
Indeed I was very much to blame to have
those cruel, ami unjust' suspicions, and mux
freely own I Vronged the poor creature very
mwh» who was of a quite contrary temper.'
And had ihe had that discerning acutene^s
-which many Europeans have, he would cer-
tainly have perceived my coldness and indif-
ference, and also have been very much con-
cerned upon that account.
As we were walking up the same hill
another day, when the weather was so' hazy
at! sea, that 1 could not perceive the conti-
nent; Friday, said I, don't you wish yourself
loboin y«ur own country, among your old
friends and, .acquaintances? Yes, said he,
me much 0 glad to be at my own nation.
And what would you do there Friday?
Would yon turn wild again, cat man's flesh
.aed bo savago as you wero formerly? No;
Ho, ( answered he, full ef concern, and shaking
Jhis head) Friday now trfl them to the good,
ftrW them pray God, tell them to eat corn,
I'fedd, cattle, Jlesh, milk, no tat man again:
But surely, replied,!, if you shouhl offer to do
all this, they will kill you'; and to rn&nifi/t their
contempt of such instruction, cut you up when
they have'done. He then put on a grave, vqt
innocent and smooth countenance, saying, N.d,
they no kill me, they willing love learn: that
is, that they would bo very willingto loam : add?
ing withall, that they had learned very tuuph
of the bcatded man's that came in the boat.
Will you, suid I, go back again, Friday?' Hb
sidled at that, and told mc that be could not
swim so far. But said I, I will wake a canoe
for you: Yes master, said he, me go if :ypu
go, me no go if you stay, I ,go, Friday!
why would you have them eat me up, and de-
vour your kind master? No, no„ said be, me
make them no eat master^ ,and me nuke them
much love you; that is, he would telj then}
how I hod slain his enemies, and thereby saved
his life, for which reason he wquld make them,
love me; and then be relafed to me, as well as
ho was able, bow exceedingly kind those of his,
nation were to the white or bearded men, as he
Called them, who in their great calamity, were,
drven into their country.
It was from this tirfie, indeed, I had strong
Inclinations to yenjture over, and use my utmost
efforts, if possible, to join with these white
bearded mqn, who undoubtedly were .Spaniards
or Portuguese; for, thought I, it must b$
certainly a better and safer way, to esqape
when there is a good company, than. for .m&
alone, from an island forjy miles off th.e shore,
and without any assistance! Some days,.aftpr;
Friday and I being at work, as usual, at tlie
same time diverting oursejyes with, various,
discourses, J' told'him [ had q. Ijoat whiol*
I would bestow upon him, whenever ' he
pleased to return to his n,wn. nation'; ,and ,^
convince him of the truth, l of what {.said,
jl took him with me to, tiro other side of the
lsland, where my frigate lay, and then taking
iy from under water ( for 1 always kept ,it
sunk for' fear of ii discovery) we both Went
into it to see bow it would manage such ail
expedition.
'And really never could any one be more
dexterous in rowing than my faithful servant,
mliking the boat go as fast again as I could.
Well, now, Friday, said I, shall we now go to'
your much desired nation? But, instead of'
meeting vrith that eheerfnlness I expected, he'
looked very dull and melancholy at my saying
so; which indeed at first surprised me, till he'
made me sensible, that his concern was about
the boat's being too small to go so far a voy-
age. Upon which, I let him understand I had
a much bigger; and, accordingly the next day
wont to the place^ where the first boat lay,
which I had made, when all the strength I
bad, or art I could use, failed mo in my at-'
tempt to get it into the water: but now it having
lain in the sun two and twenty years, and no'
care being taken of it all that while, it became
in a manner rottfn. My man teld me, that
such a boat would do very well for the pur-'
pose, sufficient to carry enough vitlle, dringt
Oread, for that was his manner of talking. In?
short, my mind being strongly fixed upon my
design of going over with him to the conti-
nent, I very plainly told him, that we Would
both go and make a boat full as big, and more
proportionable than that, wherein he might
safely return. to Iris own nation: for it occurred
to me, that most probably his great wis.li for a
'larger boat was altogether seltwh, and that
piovided he could himself return to his own.'
country, he cared but little what became of rno.
Go your way, added f, since you desire it,
and leavo mo alone by myself, as I wa» before
I saved your life.
Never was any creature more thunderstruck,
than Friday was at these words. Go me away,'
leave master away, said he, after .a long silence,
no, ho, Friday die, Friday live not master
gone; as though be had said, 1 neither can nor
Will live, if my master sends me from liim. Fri-
day felktowurds me the greatest gratitude, and
the most sincere love; ho found me uot only
his deliverer, but his preserver and comforter .r
not a severe and cruel tyrant, but a kind, lov-
ing, and affuble friend. lie wanted for no
munnor of sustenance; and when he was ill,
or out of order, I was his physician, not only
for his body, but his soul; and therefore no
wonder was it, that such an irmocent creature,
long sinco divested of his former natural cruelty,
should have an uncommon concern at so cruel,
a separation from me, which pierced him'to the
very soul, and made him desire even to die,
rather thnn live without mo.
After I hud told Friday, in a very careless
meaner, that ho should bo at his liberty as
»oon as the boat was made, the languugo of.
his eyes expressed all imaginable confusion;
whtn, immediately running to one of his
Lalcheis, which ho used to wear as a defensive
weapon, he gives it into my hand, with a heart
so full, Uiut he could Scarcely speak. Friday,.
said 1, what is it you mean? What must I do
'with this? Only kill Friday, said he, Friday
care not live long. But what must I kill you
for, replied I again. Ah, dear master, what
made you Friday save from eat a me up, so
keep long Friday, make Friday love God, and
now Friday send away, never see Friday more.
And while he spoke thus, the tears ran down
his eheeks in Such a plentiful manner, that I
had much ado to refrain from weeping also,
when I beheld the poor creature's affection: so
that I was forced to comfort him in the best
manner I could, which I did, by telling him,
if he was content to abide with me, I should be
ever willing to keep him.
After Friday's grief was somewhat abated^
more fully to convinco me of his affection? he
said, O master, me not care to he in my nation
leave you here, me desire nation learn good,
that's all; meaping that his desire was for the
conversion of that barbarous people; and that
he wished me to go with bim. And indeed,
I began to desire to go also, from my late
discourse with Friday about these seventeen
white bearded men, that had been driven upon
the Barbarian coast; whom I designed to join,
as the only means to further our escape. To
which intent, my man and I went to search for
a proper tree to fell, whereof we might make
,a perigua or canoe, to undertake the voyage;
and, indeed, We were not long in finding one*
fit for our purpose,. there being onough of
wood in the island to have built a fleet of large
I
•
vessels, but the thing we principally wanted),
was, to get one bo near the water, that we might
launch it after it was finished, and not commit
se great a mistake as I had done once before.
Well, after a great search for what was best
and most convenient, Friday, at last, whose.
judgment in such affairs was much superior to
mine, pitches upon a kind of wood the most
fitting for it. But though my man exceeded
me in the knowledge of the most proper tree
3'et I showed him a much better and cleaner
way to make a canoe than ever he knew before:
for he was for burning the hollow op cavity of
the tree, in order to make this boat; but !, then
told him how we might do it with tools, teach-
ing him at the same time how to uso them,
.which indeed he did very dexterously; so that
in a month's time we finished it, making it
very handsome, by cutting. the outside in the
true shape of a boat. After this*, it took us a.
full fortnight before we could get hen into the
waten, which wo did, as it were, inch by inch,
upon great rollers: but when she was in, she
would have carried twenty men, with all the.
ease imaginable.
As I was very well pleased, you may be.
sure, at the launching of this man of war of
mine, I was no less amazed to behold with what
dexterity my man could manage her, turn
her, ana paddle her along. Well, Friday,
sail I, what do you think of it now? Do
you think this will carry us ovtfr? Yes, master.
«;akl ho, we venture over well, though great Mote
wind. But my design was yet farther, which
bo was insensible of; and that to make a mast
and a sail, and provide her with an anchor
and cahle. As to a mast, that was no difficult
thing at all to procure: so fixing upon a
straight young cedar tree, which 1 found near
the place, great plenty of it abounding in the
island; and setting Friday to cut it down, I
gave him particular directions how to Shape
and order it; but as to the sail, that I managed
myself. 1 very well knew I had some old ones,
or pieces of sails enough, which had lain six
and twenty years by me; but not being careful
to preserve them, as thinking 1 should have no
occasion to use them any more, when I cume
to look over them, I found them almost all
rotten, except two; and with these I went to
work, and after a great deal of pains and awk-
ward tedious stitching for want of needles, at
length I finished a three-cornered ugly thing,
like that we call in England, a shoulder of
mutton sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and
a small sprit at the top, like theso which our
long-boats use, and which I very well knew
how to manage; especially since it was like
that which I had in my patron's fishing boat,
when with my boy Xury, I made my escape
from the barbarian shore.
It was nearly two months, I think, before I
completed this work, that is, the, rigging, and
fitting my mast and sails; and indeed they
were nicely done, having made a small stay,
i 2
ami.a sail, or foresail to it, fo assWt, if WW
should tnm to the windward; and, which warn
still more, I fixed a rudder to the stern of rter,.
io steer with; and though I was hut a very
indifferent shipwright, yet, as I was sensible
of the great usefulness and absolute necessity
of a thing like this, I applied myself to it with
such a constant application, that at last I ac-
complished my design; but what with the many
dull contrivances I had about it, and the failure
of many things, it cost me as much pains in
ordering, as in making the boat. ., Besides,
when all this was done, I had my man to
teach what belonged . to ' its navigation; . for
though he very well understood how to paddle
a canoe alone, he was en utter stranger to a
sail and a rudder, and was amazed when be
saw me work the boat to and again in the sen,
by them, and how the sail jibbed and rilled
this way or that way, as the course we sailed
changed. After some timo, and a little use,
1 made all these things very familiar to him,
so that he became an'expert sailor, except in
relation to tho compass, and that I could maka
him understand but little of. But as it hap-
pened, there was seldom occasion for it, there
being but little cloudy weather, and scarcely
any fog in those parts; the stars were always
visible in the night, and the shore by day, ex-
cept in the rainy season, which confined every
one to his habitation? Thus entered into tha
seven-and-twentieth year of my reign or
captivity, which you please, (the last tlrfee of
which, blessed with the company of my'man
Friday, ought not to be reckoned ;) 1 kept the
anniversary of my landing here with the nme
thankfulness to God for his tender mercies, as I
bad done before; and certainly, as 1 had great
cause for thankful acknowledgment for my
deliverance at first, I had much greater now
for such singular and additional testimonies of
the care of Providence over me, in, all my dis-
tresses of both body and mind, and the great
hopes I had~of being effectually and speedily
delivered; tor I had a strong hope, that I
should not be another year in this island. Hut,
however, I st(U continued on with iny bus.
Sjandry, digging, planting, and fencing, as
usual: gathering and curing ray grapes, and
doing all other tilings that were necessary.
And now the rainy season beginning to
come on, obliged me to keep the longer within
doors; but before this, I brought nay new ves-
sel into the creek, where I had landed my
rafts from the ship, so wo waited for the months
of November and December, in which I de-
uigned to venture over tljo ocean.:'
No sooner did the seasonable weather begin
U draw near, but so much wus I elevated
with this new designed adventure, that I daily
prepared for the voyage. The first thing I
thought on was to lay by a certain quantity of
provisions, as a anllicient'store for such,an
expedition, intending in a weelc or a fortnight's
,time.io open the dock, and launch out "the
boat fbr that purpose. But one morning as £
was very busy upon something necessary for
this occasion, I called Friday to me, and bid
him to goto the seashore, and see if he could
'ifind a turtle or tortoise, a thing which we com-
monly had once a week, as much upon account
of the eggs, as for the sake of the flesh. He
'had not been long gone, when he came running
back, as though he was pursued for life, and
as it were flew over my outer wall, er fence,
like one that felt not the groend, or srteps he
set his feet on; before I had time to inquire
'the reason of his precipitation, he cries out,
O dear master, O sorrow J sorrow/ Bad!
0 bad J Why what's the matter, Friday ? said
f. O yonder, yonder, said he, there be one,
imo, three canoes! two, three.
Surely, {thought I.) there must be six, by my
man's way of reckonings but on a stricter in-
quiry, I found there were but three. Well,
Friday, said L, don't be terrified. I warrant
you wo will defend ourselves against them.—
Hut though I comforted him in the best manner
1 could, the poor creature trembled so, that 1
scarcely knew what to do with him: O master,
said he, they come look Friday, cut pieces,
Friday, cut a me up.
Why, Friday, said I, they will e«t me up as
well as you, and my danger is as great as
your's. But since it is so, wo must rosplve to
light for our lives. What say you? Canyoa
i 4
fthoot, me kill what lean, but there come great
many number. That's no matter, said I again,
our guns will terrify those that we do not kill;
1 am very willing tn stand by you to the last
drop of my blood. ,
Now, tell me, if you will do the like by me,
and qbey my orders in whatsoever I command?
Friday then answered, O master, me lose life
for you, me die when you bid die. Thus con;
eluding all questions concerning his fidelity,
J ordered him to take the two fowling piece?,
which we always carried, and load them with
large swan shot, as big as small pistol bullets;
then I tonk four muskets and loaded them with
two slugs, and five small bullets each; charging
my two pistols each with a brace .: I hung my
great sword, as customary, naked to my side,
and gave Friday his hatchet, as a most excel-
lent weapon for defcrfce.
Thus prepared, I took my perspective glass,
and went up to the side of the hill, to see what
I could discover; and I perceived very soon
by my glass, that thnre were one and twenty
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes, and
their chief concern seemed to be the trium-
phant banquet upon the thrpe poor human
bodies, a thing which by this time I had ob-
served, was very common with them. Upon
which I called to Friday: and shewing him a
great tree, that wo? just at the corner of the
wood, near.whicji they were, 1 ordered him to
repair thither, and bring mo word, if he could
plainly perceive their actions; accordingly, ho
did as 1 commanded him, and came back with
this melancholy story, that they were all about
their fire, eating the flesh of one of their pri-
soners; and that another lay bound upon the
sand, a little distant from them, whom they de.
signed for their next sacrifice; and this ho
told mej was not one of their nation, but one
of those very beardy men, who was driven by
a storm into their country, and whom he had
so often spoken to mo about. You may be
sure, that upon hearing this, my soul was
ready to sink within me: when ascending up
into a tree, 1 saw plainly, by my gloss, a white
man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with
his Lends tied with Hags or things resembling
rushes, being covered with clothes, and seem-
ing to lie an European. Prom the tree where I
took this prospect, I perceived another tree,
and a thicket beyond it, about fifty yards
uearer to them than where I was, which, by
taking a small circle round, I might come at
undiscovered, and then I should bo within half
a shot of these devourors. I therefore got
iHihind some bushes, which held, all the way
till I came to tlje other tree; and then I as-
cended to a little rising ground, not above
eighteen yards distance, and there I had a full
view of these creatures, and could perceive all
titan actions.
fcach a. sight did then appear, as obliged
I 5 . '. -
me not to lose a moment's time. No less than
ninoteen of Uiese cruel wretches bat upon the
ground, close huddled together, expressing nil
the delight imaginable at so barbarous an en-
tertainment; and they had just sent the other
two to murder this poor unhappy Christian,
and bring him limb by limb to their lire; for
they were then just going to untie the hands
from his feet. Hereupon, immediately turning
to my man, Now, Friday, said li mind what
1 say, fail in nothing, but do exactly as you
see me do. All which he promising to per-
form, I set down one of my muskets, and the
fowling-piece upon the ground, and F/fVtaydid
the same by hisj and with the other musket
1 took my aim at one of the savages, bid-
ding him to do the like: Are you ready,
said 1; Yes, mauler, said he, why then tire
at them, said I; and at that very moment I
gave tire likewise.'
I jet not the reader suppose that I did this
without concern. Shocked at the barbarity of
thus eating their fellow-creatures, 1 still re-
flected that it was owing to the darkness of
their minds, and that any execution. I and my
man Friday made among them, was sending
human souls to eternity; at the same time I
could not conceal from myself, that it was
necessary, not only lor our safety, but tor the
, accomplishment of my object, to show U)em
the effect of our fire-arms, and tlms to terrify
them from resistance.
I only wounded one mortaily; but my man
Friday, taking his aim much better than I had,
killed two. You may be sure they were in a
dreadful consternation, at such an unexpected
disaster; and those who had yet escaped our
penetrating shot, immediately jumped upon
their feet, but were in such a confusion, that
they knew not which way to run or look; not
knowing from whence their destruction came.
Now, Friday, said I, lay down your piece, and
take up the musket and follow me. He did
so, with great courage, when, showing our-
selves to the savages, we gave a great shoat,
and made directly to the poor victim, who
would have been sacrificed, had not our first
fire obliged the butchers, with all the others,
whom our shot had not disabled,' to jump into
one of thnir canoes. By my order, Friday
fired at them, in order to complete their con-
sternation; and, for a moment, 1 thought he
had killed them all, for tb«.y instantly fell to
the bottom of their boat; they soon, however,
with the exception of him whom the ball struck,
stood up, ami used their paddles with such
effect, that they were quickly out of our reach.
In the mean time, I cut the flags that tied the
hands and feet of the poor creature, and lifting
him up, asked him, in the Portuguese tongue,
What he was? he answered me in Latin,
Chrislianus: but so very weak and faint, that
he could scarcely stand or speak. And I next
asked him what countryman he wag? He
fulness imaginable for his deliverance. Signior
(said I, with as much Spanish as I was master
of,) let us talk afterwards, but fight now; here,
take this sword and pistol and do what you
can; for at this time I thought the savages
would return. I ordered Friday to run for
the guns we had left at the tree, (fortunately,
however, there was no 6ccasion to use them,)
which he brought to me with great swiftness,
and then I gavo him my musket, while I loaded
the rest.
The savages in the canoe worked very bard
to get out of our reach, and Friday was as
eager in pursuing them, and, indeed, I was
no less anxious about their escape, Jest, after
the news had been carried to their people,
they should return in multitudes, and. destroy
us.. So being resolved to pursue them, I
jumped into one of their canoes, and bid Fri-
, day follow me; but no sooner was I in, than,
to rnj surprise, I found another poor creature,
bound hand and foot for the slaughtor, just
as the Spaniard had been, with very littlo life
in him. Immediately 1 unbound him, and
would have helped him up; but he could nei-
ther stand nor speak, but groaned so piteously,
as thinking he was unbound in ordor to be
slain. Hereupon I bid Friday speak to hirii,
and tell him of his. deliverance; when pulling
but nly bottle, I made the poor wretch drink
a little, which, with the joyful cows he ha4
received, so revived his heart, that, he sat up
in the boat. As soon as Friday began to hear
him speak, and look more fully in his face, it
would have moved any one to tears to perceive
his uncommon transports of joy; for he kissed,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laugbedf
hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung, then
cried again, wrung his hands, beat his face
and head, then sung and jumped about again,
like a.distracted croature: so that it was a
great while before I could make him speak to
me, or tell me what was the matter with him;
but when bo came to the liberty of his speech,
at last he told me it was his father.
Here, indeed, I was infinitely moved to see
the dutiful and tender affection which this poor
savage 'had to his aged parent. He' would sit *
down by him in the boat, open his breast, and
hold his father's head close to his bosom, half
an hour together, to cherish him; then he
took hi* arms and ankjes, which were, stiff and
numbed, with binding, and chafed and rubbed
them with bis hands; by whiph means, per-
ceiving what the case was, 1 gave him some
jrum, which proved of great benefit to him.
While we were busy in this action, the
savages had gotten almost out of sight; and
, happy it was we did not pursue them :. for
there arose from the north-west, which con-
tinued all night long, such a violent storm, that
I could not suppose otherwise but that they
vveje all drowned. After this, I .colled Friday
to tnc, and asked him,, if he had given his fa-
ther any bread? He shook his head, and said,
None, not one bit, me eat a up all; so I gave
him a cake of bread out of a little pouch I car-
lied for this end. 1 likewise gave him two or
three bunches of raisins for his father.
Away he then runs out of the boat as if ho .
was bewitched, with such an extraordinary
swiftness, that he was out of sight, as it were,
in an instant; but, at his return, f perceived
him slacken his pace, because he had some-
thing in his hand. And this I found to be, as
he approached nearer, an earthen jug with
some water for his father,, with two more cakes
of bread, which he delivered into my hands.
Being very thirsty myself, I drank some of the
water, of which when his father had drunk
sufficiently, it more revived his spirits than all
the rum I had given him.
I then called Friday tp me, and ordered him
to carry the .Spaniard one of the cakes, and
some water, who was reposing himself upon a
green place under the shade of a true, but so
weak, that though he exerted himself, he could
not stand upon his feet. Upon which. I ordered
Friday to rub and bathe his ankles with rum, as
he had done his father's. But every minute he
was employed in this, he would cast his eye*
towards the boat, where he left his father
sitting; who suddenly disappearing, he flew
like lightning tp him, and finding he only laid
himself down to ease his limbs, he returned
hack to mc presently, and then I spoke to the
)5'J
to the boat in order to be conveyed to my
dwelling, where I would take care of him.
Upon which, Friday took him upon his back,
fond so carried him to the canoe, setting him
close by his father; and presently stepping out
again, launched the boat off, and paddled it
along the shore faster than I could walk, though
tlie wind 'blew very hard too; and having
brought them safe to the creek, away he runs
to feU;h the other canoe, which he brought to
the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land;
then wafting me over, he took our new guests
out of the boat; but so weak were they, that
I was forced to make a kind of a hand-barrow;
and when I came to my castle, not being wil-
ling to make an entrance into my wall, we
made them a handsome tent, covered with old
sails, and boughs of trees, making two good
beds of rico straw, with blankets to lie upon
and cover them. Thus, like an absolute king,
over subjects who owed their lives to me, I
thought myself very considerable.
To get provisions for my poor wf ak subjects,
. I ordered Friday to kill me an yearling goat;
which when he had done, I cut off the hinder
quarters, and chopping it into small pieces,
boiled it and stewed it, putting barley and rica
into the broth. This I carried into their tent,
set a tpble, dined with them myself, and en-
eodrage'd them. Friday was my interpreter to
h}e father, and indeed to the Spaniard too,
who spoke the language of the salvages pretty
well. After dinner, I ordered Friday to fetcti
home all our arms fronl the field of battle, and
the next day to bury the dead bodies, which
he did accordingly.
And now 1 made Friday inquire of his
father, whether he thought those savages had
escaped the late storm in their canoe ; and if
so, whether they would not return with a force
too great for us to resist? He answered, that
he thought it impossible they could outlive the
storm: or If they were driven southwardly,
they would come to a land where they would
as certainly be devoured, as if they were
dlowned in the sea. And suppose they had
attaiined their own country, the strangeness of
their fatal and bloody attack, would make thorn
tell their people, that the rest of them were
killed by thunder and lightning, not by the
hand of man, but by two heavenly spirits
( meaning Friday and me) who wero s«nt from
above to destroy them. And this, ho said,
he knew, because he heard them say the same
to one another. And indeed he was in the
right on't, for I have heard since, that these
very men gave out, that whoever went to that
enchanted island, would be destroyed by lire
from the gods.
No canoes appoaring some time after, as I
expected, my apprehensions ceased; instead
of which my former thoughts of a voyage toot
fiaeit place, especially when Friday's father as-
sured me I should have good usage in his nation.
As to tlie Spaniard, ho told me that sixteen more
of his countrymen, and Portuguese, who had
been shipwrecked, made their escape thither;
that though they were in union with the
savages, yet they were very miserable for want
of provisions und other necessaries. When I
asked him about the parjticulars of this voyage,
he answered, that their ship was bound from
Rio de la Plata tp the Haoqnnah; that when
the ship was lost, only five men perished in the
ocean j the rest having saved themselves in the
boat, were now landed on the main continent.
And what do they intend tp do thefe? 6aid I.
lie replied, they had concerted measures to
escape by building a vessel, but that they had
neither te-els nor provisions, so that all their
designs came tp nothing. Supposing ( said I)
I should make a proposal, and invite theni
)iere, would they not carry me prisoner, to
New Spain? He answered no; for ho knew
them to be such honest men, as would scorn to
act with such inhuman baseness to their deli-
verer; that if I pleased, ho and the old savage
would go over to them, talk with them about it,
and bring me an answer: that they should all
swear fidelity to me as thoir leader, upon the
holy sacrament, and, for his part, he would not
nnly do the same, but stianu by me to the last
drop of his blood, should there be occasion.
These solenjn assurances qjado me jresolve (o
grant them: eliof, and to send Ihese two met
for that purpose; but when every tiling was
aready, the Spaniard raised an objection, which
,carried a great deal of weight in it: You know,
Sir, said he, that kavittg been %«me time with
you, I cannot but be sensible of your stock of
rice and corn, sufficient, perhaps, for us at pre.
sent, but not for them, should they come over
presently , much less to victual a vessel for
<in intended voyage. And therefore, my ad.
nice is, lo wait another harvest, and in the
mean time, cultivate and improve some more
land, whereby we may h&ve plenty of provi-
sions, in order to execute our design.
This advice of the Spaniard's I approved
«xtreruely; and 60 satisfied was I of his fidelity,
that I esteemed him ever alter. And thus
we all four went to work u^ion some more
land, and against seed-time, we had gotten so
rnuch cured, and trimmed up, sufficient to sow
22 bushels of barley on, and 16 jars of rice,
which was in short all the seed we had to spare.
As we were four in number, and by this timfe
all in good health, we feared not an hundred
of Indians, should they venture to attack ui,;
and while the corn was growing, I) pitched
upon some trees, fit to build us a large vessel,
in case the Spaniards came over: which being
marked, I ordered Friday and his father to cut
them down, appointing the Spaniard, who was
now my privy counsellor, to oversee and direct
(the work. I likewise cncrcascd my flocks of
goats, by shooting the wild dams, and bring-
ing home their kids to my enclosure; nor did
1 neglect tho grape season, but cured them as
usual, though I had such a quantity now,.as
would have filled 80 barrels with raisins.
And thus all of us being employed, they in
working, and I in providing for them, till har-
vest came, God Almighty blessed the encrease
of it so much, that from twenty-two bushels
of barley, we threshed oat two hundred and
twenty, and the like quantity of rice, suffi-
cient to victual a ship fit to carry me and all
the Spaniards to any part of America.
Thus the principal object being answered,
by a sufficient stock of provisions, I sent my
two ambassadors over to the main land, with a
regal authority to administer the oath of alle-
giance and fidelity, and have an instrument
signed under their hands, though I never asked
whether they had pen, ink, or paper; when
giving each of them a musket, with eight
charges of powder and ball, and provisions
enough for eight days, they sailed away with a
fair gale, on a day when tho moon was at the full.
Scarcely a fortnight had passed over my
bead, hut impatient for their return, I laid me
down to sleep ono' morning, when a strange
accidont happened, which was ushered in by
my man's coming running to mo, and calling
wloud, Master, master, they are come, they are
come. Upon which, not dreaming of any dan-
ger, out I jump from my bed, put on my
.clothes, and hurried through my fiitio grove j
when looking towards the sea. I perceived 4
boat, about a league and a half distant, stand-
ing in for the shore, with tire wind fair; I
saw they did not conjo from the side where
,the land lay on, but from the southernmost
.end of the island. So these being none of
the people we wanted, I ordered Friday to li*
StiHi till such time as I came down from the
mountain, which, with my ladder I now as-
fended, in order to discover more fully what
they' were; and now, with the help qI my
perspective glass, I plainly perceived an Eng-
lish ship, which I concluded it to be, by the
fashion 0/ }ts long boat; and which filled me
with such uncommon transports of joy, thai I
cannot toll how to describe them} and yet
some apprehenxiprm was mingled with my joy,
lest any tiling should occur to make this event
different from what I hoped. I resolved there-
fore to bo on my guard.
Not long it !*Ttt8, before I perceived tlie boat
,to approacn the shore, as though they looked
for a place where they might conveniently land;
and at last they .ran their boat on the shore
upon (hp beach, about half a mile distance;
which proved so much the happier for me, since,
had they come into the creek, tlioy had landed
just at my door,, and might not only have
forced me out of my castle, but plundered me
of all I had in the world. Now I was fully
convinced they were all Englishmen, three qt
Whom wore unarmed and bound; vvlww imrr/e*
diately, the first four or five leaped on shorey
and took those three out of the boat as prison-
ers; oho of whom I could perceive, used ther
most passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction
find despair, while the others in a lesser degree,
showed abundance of concern.
Not knowing tho meaning of this,1 beckoned
to Friday, who waa below, to ascend the moun.
tain, and likewise view this sight. O masler^
said ho to me, you see English mans eat pri-
soners as well as Savage mans. And do yon
Think they will eat them, Friday? said I. Yes,
Said Friday, tkey eat a all up. No, no. said \>
Friday, I am much more concerned lest they
murder them; but as for eating them up, that
I am sure they will.never do.
And now I not only lamented my misfor-
tune in not having tho Spaniard and Savage
with me, but also that I could not come within
shot of thom unperceived, (they having no fire-
arms among them) and save these three men,
whom I thought they were going to kill with
their swords. But some comfort it was to me,
that I perceived thoy were set at liberty to go
whero they, pleased, the rascally soamen scat-
tering about as though they had a mind to sea
the place: and so long did they negligently
ramble, that the tide had ebbed so low, as to
leave tho boat aground. Nor were the two>
men that were in her more circumspect. for
having drunk a little too much liquor, they fell
fast asleep; but one of them waking before ffi«
other, and perceiving the boat too fast aground
for his strength. to move it, he hallooed out to
the rest, who made all possible expedition to
come to him; but, as Providence ordered it, all
their force was ineffectual to launch her, when
I could hear them, speak to one another, Why,
let her alone, Jock, can't yer she'll float next
tide: by which words I was fully convinced
they were my own countrymen. During this
time I never stirred from my concealment, be-
fog fully sensible it could be no less than ten
hours before the boat would be afloat, and then
it would be so dark, that they could not easily
perceive me, by which means I should be at
more liberty to hear their talk, and observe all
their motions; not but that I prepared for my
defence i yet as I had another sort «f enemy to
combat with, I acted with more caution. I
took two fusees on my shoulder, and gave Fri-
day three muskets; besides my formidable
goat skin, and monstrous cap, made me look
both fierce and terrible, especially when. two
pistols were stuck in my belt, and my naked
»word was hanging by my side.
The three poor distressed creatures, too anx-
ious to get any repose, were, however, seated
o.nder the shade of a great tree, about a quar-
ter of a mile from me.
Upon which, without any more ado, I ap-
proached towards them, with my man following
behind me, and, before I was perceived, I
gentlemen.
At these words they started up in great con*
fusion, when they beheld the strange figure I
made ; tbey returned no answer, but seemed
as if they would fly fromme: Gentlemen, ( said
I in English,.) don't be afraid, perhaps you
have <t friend nearer than you expect. He
must be from Heaven, said one of them,
gravely pulling off his hat, for we are past
all help in.this world. All help is from Hear.
ven, said, I, but Sir, as I liave perceived every
action between you and these brutes since your
landing.,. only inform me how to assist yoit,.
and I wilt do it to the utmost of my power.
Am I talking with God of man?' said. he, iu
melting tears. Are you of human, kind, or an
angel? Sir, said i, Piy poor habit will tell
youy Loan a man and an Englishman, willing
to assist you, having but this servant only ..
here are. arms and ammunition: tell freely
your .condition, can we save you? The story,
said he, is to long, to relate,.since our butchers,
are so near: but, Sir, I was master of that ship,
my men have mutinied, and it is ati a favour
they have put my mate, this passenger, and me,
on shore without murdering us, though we ex-
pect nothing but perishing here. Are your
enemies gone? said I. No, replied he, ( point-
ing to a thicket,) there they lie; while my heart
trembles, lost* having seen and heard us, they
should murder us all. Have tliey fire-arms ¥
said I: They have but Wo pieces, said hcf
one of which is left in the boat. He also
told me, there wore two enormous villains
amongst them, that were the authors of this
mutiny, who, if they were killed or seized,
it might induce the rest to return to their obe-
dience.
. When he had given me all the satisfaction I
could desire, I gave him and his two compa-
nions each of them a gun', with powder and
hall sufficient, and firing myself, killed one of
the Captain's enemies, and wounded the other,
who eagerly called for assistance; but the
Captain ( who had reserved his piece) coming
up to him, Sirrah, said he, 'lis too late to call
for assistance, you should rather cry to God to
pardon your villainy: and so knocked him
down with the stock of his gun: three others
were also slightly wounded, who, at my ap-
proach, cried out for mercy. This the Captain
granted, upon condition that they would swear
to be true to him in recovering the ship, which
they solemnly did: however I obliged the
Captain to keep them bound. After which
1 sent Friday and the Captain's mate to secure
the boat and bring away the oars and sail;
when the men, seeing their late distressed Cap-
tain, now their conqueror, submitted to be
bound also. And then it was, that having
more liberty, I related the adventures of my
whole life, which he heard with a serious ad-
tention. After this, I carried him and his two
ed them all my conveniences, and when thie
was over, we began.to consider about regain-
ing the ship; hn said that there were twenty-
. six hands on board, who knowing their lives
wore forfeited by the law, for conspiracy ajid
mutiny, were so very hardened, that it would
be dangerous for our small company to attack
them. This was a reasonable inference, in-
. deed: but something vre must resolve on, ami
immediately put in execution: we therefore
heaved the boat upon the beach so high that
,she could not shoot off at high water mark, and
broke a hole in her not easy to bo stopped; so
that all the signals they gave for the boat to
come on board were in vain. This obliged
them to send another boat ashore, with te.n
men armed, whose faces the captain plainly
. descried, the boatswain being the chief offi-
cer; but he said there were throe honest lads
, among them, who were forced into the consjit-
racy. 'Hereupon, I gave him fresh courage,
( for I had perceived he was in concern) in the
mean while securing our prisoners, except two,
whom we took to our assisstance, we thought
. ourselves able enough to endure a battle.
When the sailors landed, and beheld their
boat in that condition, they not only hallooed,
but fired, for their companions to hear, yet
they received no answer. This struck them
with horror and amazement, thinking their
companions were murdeTed, tbey made as if
they would return to tbo ship. I QOilld per-'
ceive the Captain's countenance change art this,
till, of a sudden, three men were ordered to
look after the boat, while the other seven leapt
on shore, in order to search for their compa-
nions; and, indeed, they came to the brow of
the hill, near my ancient castle, from whence
they could see to a great distanee in the woods,
and there shouting and hallooing till tired and
Weary, they at length seated themselves under
a spreading tree. My opinion was, that no-
thing could be done till night, when I might
use some artifice to get them all out of the
boat; but of a sudden they started up, and
made towards the sea-side; hereupon I or*
dered Friday and the Captain's mate to go
over the creek, and halloo as loud as they
could, and so decoying them into the woods,
come round to me again. And this, indeed,
had good effect; for thoy followed the noise,
till coming westward to the creek, they called
for their boat to carry them over, and taking
one of the men out of her, left two to look
after her, having fastened her to the stump of
a little tree on th^ shore. Hereupon imme-
diately the Captain and our party passing the
creek out of tneir sight, we surprised them
, both, by the Captain's knocking down one and
ordering the other to surrender upon pain of
death, and who being the honestest of them
all, sincerely joined with us. By this time
it was pretty late; when the rest returning to
t&etr toat, which tbey found aground in the
creeft, the tldo out, and the mt'n gone! they
ran about wringing their hands, crying it was
so enchanXed island, and that they should bo
aU murdered by spirits or devils. My men
would willingly have fallen upon them, but 1
p'ould not agree to hazard any of our party.
But to be more certain, Friday and the Cap.
lain crawled upon their hands and feet, as near
as possible; and, when the boatswain ap-
proached in sight, bo eager was the Captain,
that he fired, and killed him on the spot: Friday
knocked down the next man, and a third ran
(away. Hereupon I advanced with my whole
army; and it being dark, 1 ordered the man
we had surprised in the boat, to call them by
their names, and to parley with them. Accord-
ingly he called aloud, Tom. Smith, Tom
Smith! He answered, Who's that; Robinson I
pnswered the other. For God s sake, Tom, sw/>
render immediately, or you're all dead men,
Who must we surrender to ? says Smith. To
our Captain and a large force here, who have
taken me -prisoner, wounded Will Fyre, and
killed the boatswain. Shall we have quarters
then? said he. Hereupon the Captain calls
out, You Smith, you know my voice, surrender
immediately, and you shall have your lives
granted, except Will Atkins. Hereupon Atkins
cries but, What have I clone, Captain, more
than the rest, who have been as bad as me;
but that was a lie, for ho was the person that
k 2
laid hold of him, and bound him. However/
he wan ordered to bubmit to the governor*s
mercy, for such was I called. And so laying1
down their arms, we bound them all, and seized
,on their boat.
After this, the Captain expostulated with'
thom, tellhg them that the governor was an
Englishman, who might execute them there:
but ho thought they would be sent to England.
Hereupon they implored the Captain to inter-
cede for their lives, and begged they might not
bo sent to England. This answered our pro-
ject for seizing the ship. For, after sending
them, fast bound, to the cave, I sent the Cap-
tain to treat with them in the governor's name,
offering them pardon if they would assist in
recovering the ship. Upon which, they all
promised to stand' by him till the last drop of
tlioir blood; and whoever acted treacherously
should be hanged in chains upon the beach:
They were all released on those assurances;
and then the Captain repaired to the dther
boat, making his passenger Captain of her,
and gave him four men well armed; while
himself, his mate, and five more, went in the
other boat. By midnight, they came within
call of the ship, when the Captain ordered
Robinson to hail her, and tell them that with
great difficulty they had found the men at lait.
But, while they were discoursing, the Captain)
his mate, and the rest entered, and knocked
down the second mate, arid .carpenter, secured
them under batches, while the other boat's
crew entered and secured the forecastle; they
then broke into the round-house, where the
mate, after some resistance, shot the pirate
Captain through the head, upon which, all the
rest yielded themselves prisoners. And thus
the ship being recovered, the joyful signal was
fired, which J heard with the greatest joy
imaginable: nor was it long before he brought
the shjp U> an anchor at the creek's mouth,
where comipg to me unawares. There, says he,
piy dearest Jrtetfd and deliverer, there is your
s%ip, arid we are your servants: a comfort so
Unspeakable, as made rue swoon in his arms,
while, with gratitude to heaven, we were ten^
derly embracing each other,
frothing now remained, but to consult what
we should do with the prisoners, whom he
thought it was not safe to take on board,
Hcreupnn, concerting with the Captain, I
dressed myself in one of his suits, and sending
for them, told thepi, that as J was going to
leave the island with all rny people, jf they
would tony there, their lives should be spared;
if not, they shoujd be hanged at the first port
they came to. They agreed to stay. .Here-
upon I told them nay whole story, charging
them tq be kind to the Spaniards that were ex?
pected, gave them all my arras, and informing
theni of every thing necessary for their subsist-
ence, I and rny map Friday went dp. boatd.
? 3
But the next morning two of the men came
swimming to the ship's side, desiring the Cap-
tain to take them on board, though he hanged
them afterwards, complaining mightily how
barbarously the others used them. Upop
which I prevailed with the Captain to take
them tn; and being severely punished, they
proved more honest for the future. And so I
bid farewell to this island, carrying along with,
mo my money, my parrot, umbrella, and goat-
skin cap; setting sail December 12, 1687,
after twenty-eight years, two months and nine-
toon days residence, and. landing in England,
June 11, 1688, after five and thirty years ab-
sence from my own country, which rendered^
fue altogether a stranger there.
FINIS.
VERSES
»
SUPPOSED BO BE WRITTEN BY ALEX. SELKIRK,
DURING HIS SOLITARY ABODE IN THE
ISLAND OF JUAN FERNANDEZ,; IN WHICH
HE HAD LIVED QUITE ALONE, .-DURJNO
UPWARDS OF FOUR YEARS.
1.
I AM monarch of all I survey,
My right there is none to dispute;
From the centre all round to tho sea,
1 am lord of the fowl and the brute.'
Oh, Solitude! where are the charms .
That sages have seen in thy face?
Better dwell in the midst of alarms,
Than reigu in this horrible place.
II.
I am out of humanity's reach,
I must finish my journey alone,
Never hear the sweet music of speech;:
I start at the sound of my own.
The beasts, that roam over the plain,
My form with indifference see;
They are so unacquainted with man, t
Their tameness is shocking to mo. ', ,
Iff.
Society, friendship, and love,
Divinely bestow'd upon roan,
Oh, had 1 the wings of a dove,
How soon would I taste you again!
My sorrows I then might assuage
In the ways of religion and truth,
Might learn from the wisdom of age,
And be cheer'd by the sallies of j'outh.
IV.
Religion! what treasure untold
Resides in that heavenly word!
More precious than silver and gold,
Or all that this earth can afford.
But the toll of the summoning bell
These valleys and rocks never heard,
Ne'er sigh'd at the sound of a knell,
Or smil'd when a sabbath appear'd.
V.
Ye winds, that have mack roe your sport,
Convey to this desolate shore,
Some cordial endearing report
Of a (end I shall visit no more;
My friends, do tbey now and then send
A wish or a thought after me?
O tell me I: yet have a friend,
Though a friend I am never to see.
VI.
How fleet is a glance of the mind!
Compar'd with the speed of its flight,
The tempest itself lags behind,
, And the swift winged arrows of. light.
Whew I think of my own native land,
In a moment I seem to be there;
But, alas! recollection at hand
Soon hurries me back to despair.
VII.
But the sea-fowl is gone to her nest,
The beast is laid down in bis lair,
Ev'n here is a season of rest,
And I to my cabin repair.
There's mercy in every place;
And mercy, encouraging thought!
Gives even affliction a gruco.
And reconciles man to his lot.
Printed by J. Jones, 40, S. Great George's-st. Dublin.
This book should be returned to
the Library on or before the last date
stamped below.
A fine of five cents a day is incurred
by retaining it beyond the specified
time.
Please return promptly.

