THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
Robinson Crusoe.
BY
DANIEL DEFOE.
ILLUSTRATED WITH ETCHINGS BY M. MOUILLERON; PORTRAIT
BY L. FLAMING j AND WITH ENGRAVINGS AFTER
DESIGNS BY T. STOTHARD, R.A.

PHILADELPHIA:
J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY.
I 89 i.
harvard
university;
LIBRARY
</7 X?- "c
CHAPTER XIV.
Crusoe attempts to reclaim Friday from cannibalism, and converses with him about
his country and its inhabitants—Instructs him in the knowledge of the true
God, and exposes the delusions of Pagan priestcraft—Friday finds it difficult
to account for the existence of evil—The savage becomes a Christian, and
Crusoe is completely happy.

FTER I had been two or three days returned to my
castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday off
from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish
of a cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste
other flesh; so I took him out with me one morn-
ing to the woods. I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of
my own flock, and bring it home and dress it; but as I was
going, I saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two young
kids sitting by her. I catched hold of Friday. "Hold," said
I;" stand still;" and made signs to him not to stir. Immediately
I presented my piece, shot, and killed one of the kids. The
poor creature, who had, at a distance indeed, seen me kill the
savage—his enemy, but did not know, nor could imagine, how it
was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled and shook, and looked
so amazed, that I thought he would have sunk down. He did
not see the kid I had shot at, or perceive that I had killed it, but
ripped up his waistcoat, to feel if he was not wounded; and, as
I found presently, thought I was resolved to kill him, for he
came and kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees, said a
great many things I did not understand,—but I could easily see
that his meaning was, to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no
harm; and, taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and,
pointing to the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run
and fetch it, which he did : and while he was wondering, and
looking to see how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun
186
ADVENTURES OF
again: and, by and by, I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon
a tree, within shot;—so, to let Friday understand a little what I
would do, I called him to me again, pointing at the fowl, which
was indeed a parrot, thuogh I thought it had been a hawk,—I
say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground
under the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made him
understand that I would shoot and kill that bird. Accordingly,
I fired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw the parrot
fall . He stood like one frighted again, notwithstanding all that
I had said to him; and I found he was the more amazed, because
he did not see me put anything into the gun, but thought there
must be some wonderful fund of death and destruction in that
thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or anything, near or far off:
and the astonishment this created in him was such as could not
wear off for a long time, and I believe, if I would have let him,
he would have worshipped me and my gun. As for the gun
itself, he would not so much as touch it for several days after; but would speak to it and talk to it as if it had answered him,
when he was by himself; which, as I afterwards learned of him,
was to desire it not to kill him.
Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed
to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, but
stayed some time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had
fluttered a good way from the place where she fell: however, he
found her, took her up, and brought her to me; and as I had
perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took this advan-
tage to charge the gun again, and not let him see me do it, that
I might be ready for any other mark that might present. But
nothing else offered at that time,— so I brought home the kid, and
the same evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as I
could; and having a pot for that purpose, I boiled or stewed some
of the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had begun
to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad of
it, and liked it very well; but that which was strangest to him,
was to see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the
salt was not good to eat; and putting a little into his own mouth,
he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, wash-
ing his mouth with fresh water after it: on the other hand, I took
some meat in my mouth without salt, and I pretended to spit and
sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the salt; but it
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 187
would not do—he would never care for salt with his meat or in
his broth, at least not a great while, and then but a very little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved
to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid: this I
did, by hanging it before the fire in a string, as I had seen many
people do in England, setting two poles up, one on each side of
the fire, and one cross on the top, and tying the string to the cross
stick, letting the meat turn continually. This Friday admired
very much; but when he came to taste the flesh, he took so many
ways to tell me how well he liked it, that I could not but under-
stand him, and at last he told me that he would never eat man's
flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out, and
sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before; and
he soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after he
had seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make
bread of: for after that I let him see me make my bread, and
bake it too; and in a little time Friday was able to do all the
work for me, as well as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider that, having two mouths to feed
instead of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest, and
plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to do: so I marked
out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in the same mannei
as before, in which Friday not only worked very willingly and
very hard, but did it very cheerfully: and I told him what it was
for—that it was for corn to make more bread, because he was now
with me, and that I might have enough for him and myself too.
He appeared very sensible of that part, and let me know that he
thought I had much more labour upon me on his account than I
had for myself; and that he would work the harder for me, if I
would tell him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place.
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of
almost everything I had occasion to call for, and of every place I
had to send him to, and talk a great deal to me,—so that, in short,
I began now to have some use for my tongue again, which, indeed,
I had very little occasion for before, that is to say, about speech.
Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfac-
tion in the fellow himself: his simple, unfeigned honesty appeared
to me more and more every day, and I began really to love the
ADVENTURES OF
creature ; and, on his side, I believe he loved me more than it was
possible for him ever to love anything before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering inclination
to his own country again; and having learned him English so
well that he could answer me almost any questions, I asked
him whether the nation that he belonged to never conquered in
battle? At which he smiled, and said, "Yes, yes, we always
fight the better,"—that is, he meant, always get the better in
fight; and so we began the following discourse: "You always
fight the better?" said I, "how came you to be taken prisoner
then, Friday?"
FRIDAY. My nation beat much, for all that
Master. How beat? If your nation beat them, how came you
to be taken?
FRIDAY. They more many than my nation in the place where
me was; they take one, two, three, and me; my nation overbeat
them in the yonder place, where me no was; there my nation
take one, two, great thousand.
MASTER. But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies, then?
FRIDAY. They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in
the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.
MASTER. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with the
men they take? Do they carry them away and eat them, as
these did?
FRIDAY. Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all up.
MASTER. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place, where they think.
MASTER. Do they come hither?
FRIDAY. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place.
MASTER. Have you been here with them?
FRIDAY. Yes, I have been here; (points to the north-west side
of the island, which, it seems, was their side.)
By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been
among the savages who used to come on shore on the farther part
of the island, on the said man-eating occasions that he was now
brought for; and some time after, when I took the courage to
carry him to that side, being the same I formerly mentioned, he
presently knew the place, and told me he was there once when
they ate up twenty men, two women, and one child: he could
189
not tell twenty in English, but he numbered them by laying so
many stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this passage, because it introduces what follows,—
that after I had had this discourse with him, I asked him how
far it was from our island to the shore, and whether the canoes
were not often lost. He told me there was no danger, no canoes
ever lost; but that, after a little way out to sea, there was a
current and a wind, always one way in the morning, the other in
the afternoon.
This I understood to be no more than the sets of the tide, as
going out or coming in; but I afterwards understood it was occa-
sioned by the great draft and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoque,
in the mouth of which river, as If ound afterwards, our island
lay; and that the land which I perceived to the west and north-
west was the great island Trinidad, on the north point of the
mouth of the river. I asked Friday a thousand questions about
the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what nations
were near: he told me all he knew, with the greatest openness
imaginable. I asked him the names of the several nations of his
sort of people, but could get no other name than Caribs: from
whence I easily understood that these were the Caribbees, which
our maps place on that part of America which reaches from the
mouth of the river Oroonoque to Guiana, and onwards to St
Martha. He told me that up a great way beyond the moon—
that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must be west
from their country, there dwelt white bearded men, like me, and
pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned before, and that
they had killed much mans—that was his word,—by which I
understood, he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America
had been spread over whole countries, and were remembered by
all the nations, from father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from this
island, and get among those white men: he told me, "Yes, yes,
I might go in two canoe." I could not understand what he
meant, or make him describe to me what he meant, by two canoe,
till at last, with great difficulty, I found he meant that it must be
in a large great boat, as big as two canoes.
This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me very well;
and from this time I entertained some hopes that, one time or other,
I might find an opportunity to make my escape from this place,
'9°
ADVENTURES OF
and that this poor savage might be a means to help me to do it
During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and
that he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was not
wanting to lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his mind.
I asked him, one time, who made him? The poor creature did
not understand me at all, but thought I had asked who was his
father? but I took it by another handle, and asked him who made
the sea, the ground we walked on, and the hills and woods? He
told me, it was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all: he
could describe nothing of this great person, but that he was very
old, much older, he said, than the sea or the land, than the moon
or the stars. I asked him then, if this old person had made all
things, why did not all things worship him? He looked very
grave, and with a perfect look of innocence said, "All things said
O to-him!" I asked him if the people who die in his country
went away anywhere? He said, "Yes; they all went to Bena-
muckee." Then I asked him whether those they ate up went
thither too? He said, "Yes."
From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of
the true God. I told him that the great Maker of all things lived
up there, pointing up towards heaven; that He governs the world
by the same power and providence by which He made it; that
He was omnipotent, could do everything for us, give everything
to us, take everything from us; and thus, by degrees, I opened
his eyes. He listened with great attention, and received with
pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and
of the manner of making our prayers to God, and His being able
to hear us, even in heaven. He told me one day, that if our
God could hear us up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater
God than their Benamuckee, who lived but a little way off, and
yet could not hear till they went up to the great mountains where
he dwelt to speak to him. I asked him if ever he went thither
to speak to him? He said, "No; they never went that were
young men: none went thither but the old men," whom he called
their Oowookakee,—that is, as I made him explain it to me,
their religious, or clergy; and that they went to say, "O" (so he
called saying prayers), and then came back, and told them what
Benamuckee said. By this I observed, that there is priestcraft even
among the most blinded, ignorant pagans in the world; and the
policy of making a secret of religion, in order to preserve the venera-
191
tion of the people to the clergy, is to be found among all religions
in the world, even among the most brutish and barbarous savages.
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday, and
told him that the pretence of their old men going up to the
mountains to say "O" to their god Benamuckee was a cheat,
and their bringing word from thence what he said was much more
so; that if they met with any answer, or spoke with any one there,
it must be with an evil spirit; and then I entered into a long
discourse with him about the devil, the original of him, his
rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the reason of it, his
setting himself up in the dark parts of the world to be worshipped
instead of God, and as God, and the many stratagems he made
use of to delude mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret
access to our passions and to our affections, to adapt his snares
so to our inclinations as to cause us even to be our own tempters,
and to run upon our destruction by our own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind
about the devil, as it was about the being of a God: nature
assisted all my arguments to evidence to him even the necessity
of a great First Cause, and overruling governing Power, a secret,
directing Providence—and of the equity and justice of paying
homage to Him that made us, and the like. But there appeared
nothing of all this in the notion of an evil spirit,—of his original,
his being, his nature, and, above all, of his inclination to do evil,
and to draw us in to do so too; and the poor creature puzzled
me once in such a manner, by a question merely natural and
innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to him.
I had been talking a great deal to him of the power of God,
His omnipotence, His dreadful aversion to sin—His being a con-
suming fire to the workers of iniquity,—how, as He had made us
all, He could destroy us and all the world in a moment; and he
listened with great seriousness to me all the while. After this,
I had been telling him how the devil was God's enemy in the
hearts of men, and used all his malice and skill to defeat the
good designs of Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ
in the world, and the like. "Well," says Friday, "but you say
God is so strong, so great; is He not much strong, much might
as the devil?" "Yes, yes," says I, "Friday, God is stronger
than the devil: God is above the devil, and therefore we pray to
God to tread him under our feet, and enable us to resist his
192
ADVENTURES OF
temptations, and quench his fiery darts." "But," says he again,
"if God much strong, much might as the devil, why God no kill
the devil, so make him no more do wicked?"
I was strangely surprised at his question; and, after all, though
I was now an old man, yet I was but a young doctor, and ill
enough qualified for a casuist, or a solver of difficulties,—and,
at first, I could not tell what to say, so I pretended not to hear
him, and asked him what he said? but he was too earnest for an
answer to forget his question, so that he repeated it in the very
same broken words as above. By this time I had recovered
myself a little, and I said, "God will at last punish him severely;
he is reserved for the judgment, and is to be cast into the bottom-
less pit, to dwell with everlasting fire." This did not satisfy
Friday; but he returns upon me, repeating my words, "Reserve
at last: me no understand; but why not kill the devil now—not
kill great ago?" "You may as well ask me," said I, "why God
does not kill you and me, when we do wicked things here that
offend Him? We are preserved to repent and be pardoned."
He muses a while at this. "Well, well," says he, mighty affec-
tionately, "that well: so you, I, devil, all wicked, all preserve,
repent, God pardon all." Here I was run down again by him
to the last degree; and it was a testimony to me, how the mere
notions of nature, though they will guide reasonable creatures to
the knowledge of a God, and of a worship or homage due to the
supreme being of God, as the consequence of our nature, yet
nothing but divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus
Christ, and of a redemption purchased for us; of a Mediator;
of a new covenant; and of an Intercessor at the footstool of
God's throne: I say, nothing but a revelation from Heaven can
form these in the soul, and that, therefore, the gospel of our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the Word of God, and the
Spirit of God, promised for the guide and sanctifier of His people,
are the absolutely necessary instructors of the souls of men in the
saving knowledge of God, and the means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my
man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden occasion of going
out: then sending him for something a great way off, I seriously
prayed to God, that He would enable me to instruct savingly this
poor savage, assisting, by His Spirit, the heart of the poor ignorant
creature to receive the light of the knowledge of God in Christ
reconciling him to Himself, and would guide me to speak so to
him from the Word of God, as his conscience might be convinced,
his eyes opened, and his soul saved. When he came again to
me, I entered into a long discourse with him upon the subject of
the redemption of man by the Saviour of the world, and of the
doctrine of the gospel preached from heaven, viz., of repentance
towards God, and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus. I then
explained to him, as well as I could, why our blessed Redeemer
took not on Him the nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham;
and how, for that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the
redemption,—that He came only to the lost sheep of the house of
Israel, and the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the
methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and must
acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon the same principle
will find—that, in laying things open to him, I really informed
and instructed myself in many things that either I did not know,
or had not fully considered before, but which occurred naturally
to my mind upon my searching into them, for the information of
this poor savage; and I had more affection in my inquiry after
things upon this occasion than ever I felt before: so that, whether
this poor wild wretch was the better for me or no, I had great
reason to be thankful that ever he came to me. My grief sat
lighter upon me; my habitation grew comfortable to me beyond
measure; and when I reflected that, in this solitary life which I
had been confined to, I had not only been moved myself to look
up to Heaven, and to seek to the hand that brought me thither,
but was now to be made an instrument, under Providence, to
save the life, and, for aught I knew, the soul, of a poor savage,
and bring him to the true knowledge of religion, and of the
Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesus, to know
whom is life eternal;—I say, when I reflected upon all these
things, a secret joy ran through every part of my soul, and I fre-
quently rejoiced that ever I was brought to this place, which I
had often thought the most dreadful of all afflictions that could
possibly have befallen me.
In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my
time, and the conversation which employed the hours between
Friday and me was such as made the three years which we lived
there together perfectly and completely happy, if any such thing
N
194 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
as complete happiness can be found in a sublunary state. The
savage was now a good Christian, a much better than I,—though
I have reason to hope, and bless God for it, that we were equally
penitent, and comforted, restored penitents. We had here the
Word of God to read, and no farther off from His Spirit to instruct,
than if we had been in England. I always applied myself to
reading the Scripture, and to let him know as well as I could the
meaning of what I read; and he again, by his serious inquiries
and questionings, made me, as I said before, a much better scholar
in the Scripture-knowledge than I should ever have been by my
own mere private reading. Another thing I cannot refrain from
observing here also, from experience in this retired part of my
life, viz., how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is that the
knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation by Christ Jesus,
is so plainly laid down in the Word of God,—so easy to be received
and understood, that, as the bare reading the Scripture made me
capable of understanding enough of my duty to carry me directly
on to the great work of sincere repentance for my sins, and laying
hold of a Saviour for life and salvation, to a stated reformation in
practice, and obedience to all God's commands, and this without
any teacher or instructor, I mean human,—so, the same plain
instruction sufficiently served to the enlightening this savage
creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian as I have known
few equal to him in my life.
As to the disputes, wrangling, strife, and contention, which have
happened in the world about religion, whether niceties in doctrines,
or schemes of Church government, they were all perfectly useless
to us, as for aught I can yet see, they have been to all the rest in
the world. We had the sure guide to heaven, viz., the Word of
God; and we had, blessed be God, comfortable views of the
Spirit of God teaching and instructing us by His Word, leading us
into all truth, and making us both willing and obedient to the
instruction of His Word. And I cannot see the least use that the
greatest knowledge of the disputed points in religion, which have
made such confusions in the world, would have been to us, if we
could have obtained it. But I must go on with the historical
part of things, and take every part in its order.
Crusoe teaches Friday the use of fire-arms, and describes to him the countries of
Europe—They make a boat, and fit it with masts and sails—Friday is instructed
how to navigate it—The savages again visit the island—They are attacked and
routed—Crusoe rescues a Spaniard, their prisoner, and Friday discovers his
father.

FTER Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all
I said to him, and speak fluently, though in broken
English, to me, I acquainted him with my own
story, or at least so much of it as related to my coming into this place; how I had lived here, and how long: I
let him into the mystery, for such it was to him, of gunpowder
and bullet, and taught him how to shoot I gave him a knife,
which he was wonderfully delighted with; and I made him a belt
with a frog hanging to it, such as in England we wear hangers
in,—and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet,
which was not only as good a weapon, in some cases, but much
more useful upon other occasions.
I described to him the countries of Europe, and particularly
England, which I came from; how we lived, how we worshipped
God, how we behaved to one another, and how we traded in
ships to all parts of the world. I gave him an account of the
wreck which I had been on board of, and showed him, as near as
I could, the place where she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces
before, and gone. I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we
lost when we escaped, and which I could not stir with my whole
strength then, but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon
seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a great while, and said
nothing. I asked him what it was he studied upon? At last, says
he, "Me see such boat like come to place at my nation." I did
ADVENTURES OF
not understand him for a good while; but, at last, when I had
examined farther into it, I understood by him, that a boat, such
as that had been, came on shore upon the country where he
lived: that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by stress of
weather. I presently imagined that some European ship must
have been cast away upon their coast, and the boat might get
loose, and drive ashore; but was so dull, that I never once
thought of men making escape from a wreck thither, much less
whence they might come: so I only inquired after a description
of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough, but brought me
better to understand him when he added, with some warmth,
"We save the white mans from drown." Then I presently asked
him, if there were any white mans, as he called them, in the
boat? "Yes," he said; "the boat full of white mans." I asked
him how many? He told upon his fingers seventeen. I asked
him then what became of them? He told me, "They live, they
dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently imagined
that these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast
away in sight of my island, as I now called it; and who, after the
ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had
saved themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that wild
shore among the savages. Upon this, I inquired of him more
critically what was become of them; he assured me they lived
still there; that they had been there about four years; that the
savages let them alone, and gave them victuals to live on. I
asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them and eat
them? He said, "No, they make brother with them;" that is, as
I understood him, a truce; and then he added, "They no eat
mans but when make the war fight;" that is to say, they never
eat any men but such as come to fight with them, and are taken
in battle.
It was after this some considerable time, that, being upon the
top of the hill, at the east side of the island, from whence, as I
have said, I had, in a clear day, discovered the main or continent
of America, Friday, the weather being very serene, looks very
earnestly towards the main land, and, in a kind of surprise, falls
a jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some
distance from him. I asked him what was the matter ?" Oh
197
joy!" says he; "Oh glad! there see my country, there my
nation!" I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared
in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered
a strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own country
again. This observation of mine put a great many thoughts into
me, which made me at first not so easy about my new man,
Friday, as I was before; and I made no doubt but that if Friday
could get back to his own nation again, he would not only forget
all his religion, but all his obligation to me, and would be forward
enough to give his countrymen an account of me, and come back
perhaps with a hundred or two of them, and make a feast upon
me, at which he might be as merry as he used to be with those
of his enemies, when they were taken in war. But I wronged
the poor honest creature very much, for which I was very sorry
afterwards. However, as my jealousy increased, and held me
some weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so familiar
and kind to him as before: in which I was certainly in the wrong
too, the honest, grateful creature having no thought about it, but
what consisted with the best principles, both as a religious
Christian, and as a grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my
full satisfaction.
While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was every
day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of the new
thoughts which I suspected were in him; but I found everything
he said was so honest and so innocent, that I could find nothing
to nourish my suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he
made me at last entirely his own again: nor did he, in the least,
perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect him
of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being hazy
at sea, so that we could not see the continent, I called to him,
and said, "Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own country,
your own nation?" "Yes," he said, " I be much oh glad to be
at my own nation." "What would you do there?" said I;
"would you turn wild again, eat men's flesh again, and be a
savage as you were before?" He looked full of concern, and
shaking his head, said, "No, no; Friday tell them to live good,
tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh,
milk; no eat man again." "Why then," said I to him, "they
will kill you." He looked grave at that, and then said, "No, they
ADVENTURES OF
no kill me, they willingly love learn." He meant by this, they
would be willing to learn. He added, "they learned much of
the bearded mans that came in the boat" Then I asked him if
he would go back to them. He smiled at that, and told me he
could not swim so far. I told him I would make a canoe for
him. He told me he would go, if I would go with him. "I go?"
says I; "why, they will eat me, if I come there." "No, no,"
says he; "me make they no eat you; me make they much love
you." He meant, he would tell them how I had killed his
enemies, and saved his life, and so he would make them love me.
Then he told me, as well as he could, how kind they were to
seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he called them, who
came on shore there in distress.
From this time, I confess I had a mind to venture over, and
see if I could possibly join with those bearded men, who, I made
no doubt, were Spaniards, or Portuguese; not doubting but if I
could, we might find some method to escape from thence, being
upon the continent, and a good company together, better than I
could from an island forty miles off the shore, and alone, without
help. So, after some days, I took Friday to work again, by way
of discourse; and told him I would give him a boat to go back
to his own nation; and accordingly I carried him to my frigate,
which lay on the other side of the island, and having cleared it of
water (for I always kept it sunk in the water) I brought it out,
showed it him and we both went into it. I found he was a most
dexterous fellow at managing it, and would make it go almost as
swift again as I could. So when he was in, I said to him, " Well,
now, Friday, shall we go to your nation?" He looked very dull
at my saying so; which, it seems, was because he thought the
boat too small to go so far: I then told him I had a bigger; so
the next day I went to the place where the first boat lay which I
had made, but which I could not get into the water. He said that
was big enough: but then, as I had taken no care of it, and it
had lain two or three-and-twenty years there, the sun had split
and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten. Friday told me
such a boat would do very well, and would carry "much enough
vittle, drink, bread;" that was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time, so fixed upon my design
of going over with him to the continent, that I told him we would
go and make one as big as that, and he should go home in it
»99
He answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad. I
asked him what was the matter with him? He asked me again,
"Why you angry mad with Friday? What me done?" I asked
him what he meant? I told him I was not angry with him at
all. "No angry?" says he, repeating the words several times.
"Why send Friday home away to my nation?" "Why," says I,
"Friday, did you not say you wished you were there?" "Yes,
yes," says he, "wish be both there; no wish Friday there, no
master there." In a word, he would not think of going there
without me. "I go there, Friday!" says 1, '-what shall I do
there?" He turned very quick upon me at this: "You do great
deal much good," says he; "you teach wild mans be good, sober,
tame mans; you tell them know God, pray God, and live new
life." "Alas 1 Friday," says I, "thou knowest not what thou
sayest; I am but an ignorant man myself." "Yes, yes," says he,
"you teachee me good, you teachee them good." "No, no,
Friday," says I, "you shall go without me; leave me here to live
by myself, as I did before." He looked confused again at that
word: and running to one of the hatchets which he used to wear,
he takes it up hastily, and gives it to me. "What must I do with
this?" says I to him. "You take kill Friday," says he. "What must
I kill you for?" said I again. He returns very quick, "What
you send Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday
away." This he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his
eyes: in a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost affection in
him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that I told him then and
often after, that I would never send him away from me, if he was
willing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse, a settled affec-
tion to me, and that nothing should part him from me, so I found
all the foundation of his desire to go to his own country was laid
in his ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of my doing
them good; a thing which, as I had no notion of myself, so I had
not the least thought, or intention, or desire, of undertaking it. But still I found a strong inclination to my attempting an escape,
as above, founded on the supposition gathered from the discourse,
viz., that there were seventeen bearded men there; and, there-
fore, without any more delay, I went to work with Friday, to find
out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or
canoe, to undertake the voyage.
200
ADVENTURES OF
There were trees enough in the island to have built a little
fleet, not of periaguas and canoes, but even of good large vessels;
but the main thing I looked at was, to get one so near the water
that we might launch it when it was made, to avoid the mistake
I committed at first. At last, Friday pitched upon a tree; for I
found he knew much better than I what kind of wood was fittest
for it; nor can I tell, to this day, what wood to call the tree we
cut down, except that it was very like the tree we call fustic, or
between that and the Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the
same colour and smell. Friday was for burning the hollow or
cavity of this tree out, to make it for a boat; but I showed him
how to cut it with tools, which, after I showed him how to use,
he did very handily: and in about a month's hard labour we
finished it, and made it very handsome; especially, when, with
our axes, which I showed him how to handle, we cut and hewed
the outside into the true shape of a boat. After this, however,
it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her along, as it were inch
by inch, upon great rollers into the water; but when she was in
she would have carried twenty men with great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it
amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how swift my man
Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her along. So
I asked him if he would, and if we might, venture over in her.
"Yes," he said, "he venture over in her very well, though great
blow wind." However, I had a further design that he knew
nothing of, and that was to make a mast and a sail, and to fit
her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was easy
enough to get: so I pitched upon a straight young cedar tree,
which I found near the place, and which there were great plenty
of in the island; and I set Friday to work to cut it down, and
gave him directions how to shape and order it. But as to the
sail, that was my particular care. I knew I had old sails, or rather
pieces of old sails enough; but as I had had them now six-and-
twenty years by me, and had not been very careful to preserve
them, not imagining that I should ever have this kind of use for
them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten, and, indeed, most
of them were so. However, I found two pieces, which appeared
pretty good; and with these I went to work, and with a great
deal of pains, and awkward stitching—you may be sure, for want
of needles—I at length made a three-cornered ugly thing, like
201
what we call in England a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a
boom at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as usually
our ships' long boats sail with, and such as I best knew how to
manage, for it was such a one as I had to the boat in which I
made my escape from Barbary, as related in the first part of my
story.
I was near two months performing this last work, viz., rigging
and fitting my mast and sails; for I finished them, very com-
plete, making a small stay, and a sail, or foresail, to it, to assist, if we
should turn to windward; and, which was more than all, I fixed
a rudder to the stern of her to steer with; and though I was but
a bungling shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness, and even
necessity of such a thing, I applied myself with so much pains to
do it, that at last I brought it to pass,—though, considering the
many dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me
almost as much labour as making the boat.
After all this was done, too, I had my man Friday to teach as
to what belonged to the navigation of my boat; for, though he
knew very well how to paddle the canoe, he knew nothing what
belonged to a sail and a rudder, and was the most amazed when
he saw me work the boat to and again in the sea by the rudder,
and how the sail gibbed, and filled this way or that way, as the
course we sailed changed ;—I say, when he saw this, he stood like
one astonished and amazed. However, with a little use, I made
all these things familiar to him, and he became an expert sailor,
except that, as to the compass, I could make him understand very
little of that. On the other hand, as there was very little cloudy
weather, and seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there was
the less occasion for a compass, seeing the stars were always to be
seen by night, and the shore by day, except in the rainy reasons,
and then nobody cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my cap
tivity in this place; though the three last years that I had this
creature with me ought rather to be left out of account, my
habitation being quite of another kind than in all the rest of the
time . I kept the anniversary of my landing here with the same
thankfulness to God for His mercies as at first: and if I had such
cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more so now, having
such additional testimonies of the care of Providence over me, and
the great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily delivered;
ADVENTURES OF
for I had an invincible impression upon my thoughts that my
deliverance was at hand, and that I should not be another year in
this place. However, I went on with my husbandry—digging,
planting, and fencing, as usual. I gathered and cured my grapes,
and did every necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was, in the meantime, upon me, when I kept
more within doors than at other times; so I had stowed our new
vessel as secure as I could;—bringing her up into the creek,
where, as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship,
and haling her up to the shore, at high water mark, I made my
man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold her, and just
deep enough to give her water enough to float in; and then, when
the tide was out, we made a strong dam across the end of it, to
keep the water out,—and so she lay dry as to the tide from the
sea: and to keep the rain off, we laid a great many boughs of trees
so thick, that she was as well thatched as a house, and thus we
waited for the months of November and December in which I
designed to make my adventure.
When the settled season began to come in, as the thought of
my design returned with the fair weather, I was preparing daily
for the voyage; and the first thing I did was to lay by a certain
quantity of provisions, being the stores for our voyage, and
intended, in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and
launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon something
of this kind, when I called to Friday, and bid him go to the sea-
shore, and see if he could find a turtle, or tortoise, a thing which
we generally got once a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as
the flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came running
back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not
the ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and before I had time
to speak to him, he cries out to me, "O master! O master! O
sorrow! O bad!" "What's the matter, Friday?" says I. "O
yonder, there," says he, "one, two, three canoe: one, two, three!"
By his way of speaking I concluded there were six; but on
inquiry, I found it was but three. "Well, Friday," says I, "do
not be frighted." So I heartened him up as well as I could:
however, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared, for
nothing ran in his head but that they were come to look for him,
and would cut him in pieces, and eat him; and the poor fellow
trembled so, that I scarce knew what to do with him. I com-

ROBINSON APERCOIT LES TROIS CAPTIFS
203
forted him as well as I could, and told him I was in as much
danger as he, and that they would eat me as well as him. "But,"
says I, "Friday, we must resolve to fight them. Can you fight,
Friday?" "Me shoot," says he, "but there come many great
number." "No matter for that," said I again; "our guns will
fright them that we do not kill." So I asked him whether, if I
resolved to defend him, he would defend me and stand by me;
and do just as I bid him. He said, "Me die, when you bid die,
master." So I went and fetched a good dram of rum and gave
him; for I had been so good a husband of my rum, that I had a
great deal left. When he had drank it, I made him take the two
fowling-pieces, which we always carried, and loaded them with
large swan-shot, as big as small pistol-bullets; then I took four
muskets, and loaded them with two slugs, and five small bullets
each, and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each: I
hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and gave
Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspective glass,
and went up to the side of the hill, to see what I could discover;
and I found quickly, by my glass, that there were one-and-twenty
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole
business seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon these three
human bodies,—a barbarous feast indeed! but nothing more than,
as I had observed, was usual with them. I observed also, that
they were landed, not where they had done when Friday made
his escape, but nearer to my creek: where the shore was low,
and where a thick wood came almost close down to the sea.
This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches
came about, filled me with such indignation, that I came down again
to Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down to them and
kill them all, and asked him if he would stand by me. He had
now gotten over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with
the dram I had given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as
before, he would die when I bid die.
In this fit of fury, I took, and divided the arms which I had
charged, as before, between us. I gave Friday one pistol to stick
in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder, and I took one
pistol, and the other three guns myself; and in this posture we
marched out I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and
gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullets; and, as
ADVENTURES OF
to orders, I charged him to keep close behind me, and not to stir,
or shoot, or do anything, till I bid him; and, in the meantime,
not to speak a word. In this posture, I fetched a compass to
my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to
get into the wood, so that I might come within shot of them
before I should be discovered, which I had seen, by my glass, it
was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former thoughts returning,
I began to abate my resolution:—I do not mean that I entertained
any fear of their number; for, as they were naked, unarmed
wretches, it is certain I was superior to them,—nay, though I
had been alone. But it occurred to my thoughts, what call, what
occasion, much less what necessity I was in, to go and dip my
hands in blood, to attack people who had neither done nor
intended me any wrong? who, as to me, were innocent, and
whose barbarous customs were their own disaster; being, in them,
a token indeed of God's having left them, with the other nations
of that part of the world, to such stupidity and to such inhuman
courses, but did not call me to take upon me to be a judge of
their actions, much less an executioner of His justice; that, when-
ever He thought fit, He would take the cause into His own hands,
and, by national vengeance, punish them as a people, for national
crimes; but that, in the meantime, it was none of my business;
that, it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was a declared
enemy, and in a state of war with those very particular people,
and it was lawful for him to attack them; but I could not say
the same with respect to myself. These things were so warmly
pressed upon my thoughts all the way as I went, that I resolved
I would only go and place myself near them, that I might observe
their barbarous feast, and that I would act then as God should
direct: but that, unless something offered that was more a call
to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood, and with all possible
wariness and silence, Friday following close at my heels, I
marched till I came to the skirt of the wood, on the side which
was next to them, only that one corner of the wood lay between
me and them. Here I called softly to Friday, and showing him
a great tree, which was just at the corner of the wood, I bade him
go to the tree, and bring me word if he could see there plainly
what they were doing. He did so, and came immediately back
205
to me, and told me they might be plainly viewed there; that they
were all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners,
and that another lay bound upon the sand, a little from them,
which, he said, they would kill next, and which fired all the very
soul within me. He told me it was not one of their nation, but
one of the bearded men whom he had told me of, that came to
their country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very
naming the white bearded man; and, going to the tree, I saw
plainly, by my glass, a white man, who lay upon the beach of the
sea, with his hands and his feet tied with flags, or things like
rushes, and that he was an European, and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about
fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I was, which, by
going a little way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered,
and that then I should be within half shot of them; so I with-
held my passion, though I was indeed enraged to the highest
degree, and going back about twenty paces, I got behind some
bushes, which held all the way till I came to the other tree, and
then I came to a little rising ground, which gave me a full view
of them, at the distance of about eighty yards.
I had not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful
wretches sat upon the ground, all close-huddled together, and
had just sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian, and
bring him, perhaps, limb by limb, to their fire; and they were
stooped down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday.
"Now, Friday," said I, "do as I bid thee." Friday said he
would. "Then, Friday," says I, "do exactly as you see me do;
fail in nothing." So I set down one of the muskets and the
fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday did the like by his;
and with the other musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding
him do the like: then asking him if he was ready, he said, "Yes."
"Then fire at them," said I; and the same moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side
that he shot, he killed two of them, ancLwounded three more;
and on my side, I killed one, and wounded two. They were,
you may be sure, in a dreadful consternation, and all of them
who were not hurt jumped upon their feet, but did not immediately
know which way to run, or which way to look, for they knew not
from whence their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close
upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might observe what I did j
so, as soon as the first shot was made, I threw down the piece,
and took up the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like: he saw
me cock and present; he did the same again. "Are you ready,
Friday?" said I. "Yes," says he. "Let fly, then," says I, "in
the name of God!" And with that I fired again among the
amazed wretches, and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now
loaden with what I called swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we
found only two drop, but so many were wounded, that they ran
about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and
miserably wounded most of them, whereof three more fell quickly
after, though not quite dead.
"Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged pieces,
and taking up the musket which was yet loaden, "follow me,"—
which he did, with a great deal of courage, upon which I rushed
out of the wood, and showed myself, and Friday close at my foot
As soon as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could,
and bade Friday do so too; and running as fast as I could,
which, by the way, was not very fast, being loaden with arms as I
was, I made directly towards the poor victim, who was, as I said,
lying upon the beach, or shore, between the place where they sat
and the sea. The two butchers, who were just going to work
with him, had left him at the surprise of our first fire, and fled in
a terrible fright to the seaside, and had jumped into a canoe,
and three more of the rest made the same way. I turned to
Friday, and bade him step forwards, and fire at them; he under-
stood me immediately, and running about forty yards, to be near
them, he shot at them, and I thought he had killed them all, for
• I saw them all fall of a heap into the boat, though I saw two of
them up again quickly: however, he killed two of them, and
wounded the third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the
boat as if he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I' pulled out my knife,
and cut the flags that bound the poor victim; and loosing his
hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him in the Portuguese
tongue, what he was. He answered in Latin, " Christianus," but
was so weak and faint that he could scarce stand or speak. I
took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him, making signs
that he should drink, which he did; and I gave him a piece of
bread, which he ate. Then I asked him what countryman he
was, and he said, "Espagniole;" and being a little recovered,
207
let me know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how much
he was in my debt for his deliverance. "Seignior," said I, with
as much Spanish as I could make up, "we will talk afterwards,
but we must fight now: if you have any strength left, take this
pistol and sword, and lay about you." He took them very thank-
fully; and no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if
they had put new vigour into him, he flew upon his murderers
like a fury, and had cut two of them in pieces in an instant; for the
truth is, as the whole was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures
were so much frighted with the noise of our pieces, that they fell
down for mere amazement and fear, and had no more power to
attempt their own escape, than their flesh had to resist our shot;
and that was the case of those five that Friday shot at in the
boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they received, so the
other two fell with the fright
I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being willing
to keep my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my
pistol and sword; so I called to Friday, and bade him run up to
the tree from whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay
there that had been discharged, which he did with great swiftness;
and then, giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load all
the rest again, and bade them come to me when they wanted.
While I was loading these pieces, there happened a fierce engage-
ment between the Spaniard and one of the savages, who made at
him with one of their great wooden swords, the same like weapon
that was to have killed him before, if I had not prevented it
The Spaniard, who was as bold and brave as could be imagined,
though weak, had fought this Indian a good while, and had cut
him two great wounds on his head; but the savage being a stout,
lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him down, being
faint, and was wringing my sword out of his hand, when the
Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting the sword, drew the
pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the body, and
killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running to help him,
could come near him.
Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying wretches
with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and with that he
despatched those three, who, as I said before, were wounded at
first, and fallen, and all the rest he could come up with: and the
Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling-
2o8
ADVENTURES OF
pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages, and wounded
them both; but as he was not able to run, they both got from
him into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed one
of them, but the other was too nimble for him; and though he
was wounded, yet had plunged himself into the sea, and swam
with all his might off to those two who were left in the canoe,
which three in the canoe, with one wounded, who we knew not
whether he died or no, were all that escaped our hands of one-
and twenty. The account of the whole is as follows:—Three
killed at our first shot from the tree; two killed at the next shot;
two killed by Friday in the boat; two killed by Friday of those
at first wounded; one killed by Friday in the wood; three killed
by the Spaniard; four killed, being found dropped here and there
of their wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase of them; four
escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead—twenty-
one in all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gun-
shot, and though Friday made two or three shots at them, I did
not find that he hit any of them. Friday would fain have had
me take one of their canoes, and pursue them; and indeed, I
was very anxious about their escape, lest, carrying the news home
to their people, they should come back perhaps with two or three
hundred of their canoes, and devour us by mere multitude: so I
consented to pursue them by sea, and running to one of their
canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me; but when I
was in the canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature
lie there, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the
slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not knowing what the
matter was,—for he had not been able to look up over the side
of the boat: he was tied so hard neck and heels, and had been
tied so long, that he had really little life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had
bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he could
not stand or speak, but groaned most piteously, believing, it
seems, still, that he was only unbound in order to be killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him, and tell
him of his deliverance; and, pulling out my bottle, made him
give the poor wretch a dram, which, with the news of his being
delivered, revived him, and he sat up in the boat But when
Friday came to hear him speak, and looked in his face, it would
209
have moved any one to tears to have seen how Friday kissed him,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped
about, danced, sung,—then cried again, wrung his hands, beat
his own face and head, and then sung and jumped about again,
like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I could
make him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when
he came a little to himself, he told me that it was his father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what
ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor savage at the
sight of his father, and of his being delivered from death; nor,
indeed, can I describe half the extravagancies of his affection
after this; for he went into the boat and out of the boat a great
many times: when he went in to him, he would sit down by him,
open his breast, and hold his father's head close to his bosom
half an hour together, to nourish it; then he took his arms and
ankles, which were numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed
and rubbed them with his hands; and I, perceiving what the
case was, gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with,
which did them a great deal of good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the
other savages, who were now gotten almost out of sight; and it
was happy for us that we did not, for it blew so hard within two
hours after, and before they could be gotten a quarter of their
way, and continued blowing so hard all night, and that from the
north-west, which was against them, that I could not suppose
their boat could live, or that they ever reached to their own
coast.
But, to return to Friday, he was so busy about his father, that
I could not find in my heart to take him off for some time: but
after I thought he could leave him a little, I called him to me,
and he came jumping and laughing, and pleased to the highest
extreme. Then I asked him if he had given his father any bread?
He shook his head, and said, "None, ugly dog eat all up self."
So I gave him a cake of bread, out of a little pouch I carried on
purpose; I also gave him a dram for himself, but he would not
taste it, but carried it to his father. I had in my pocket also two
or three bunches of my raisins,—so I gave him a handful of them
for his father. He had no sooner given his father these raisins,
but I saw him come out of the boat, and run away, as if he had
been bewitched, he ran at such a rate,—for he was the swiftest
O
ADVENTURES OF
fellow of his foot that ever I saw: I say he ran at such a rate
that he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant; and though I
called, and hallooed too, after him, it was all one, away he went;
and in a quarter of an hour I saw him come back again, though
not so fast as he went, and as he came nearer, I found his pace
was slacker, because he had something in his hand. When he
came up to me, I found he had been quite home for an earthen
jug or pot, to bring his father some fresh water, and that he had
got two more cakes or loaves of bread. The bread he gave me,
but the water he carried to his father: however, as I was very
thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived his father
more than all the rum or spirits I had given him, for he was just
fainting with thirst.
When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there
was any water left. He said, "Yes ;" and I bade him give it to
the poor Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his father:
and I sent one of the cakes that Friday brought to the Spaniard
too, who was indeed very weak, and was reposing himself upon a
green place under the shade of a tree, and whose limbs were also
very stiff, and very much swelled with the rude bandage he had
been tied with. When I saw that, upon Friday's coming to him
with the water, he sat up and drank, and took the bread, and
began to eat, I went to him and gave him a handful of raisins.
He looked up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and
thankfulness that could appear in any countenance; but was so
weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted himself in the fight,
that he could not stand up upon his feet: he tried to do it two
or three times, but was really not able, his ankles were so swelled
and so painful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday
to rub his ankles and bathe them with rum, as he had done his
father's.
I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes,
or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turned his head about
to see if his father was in the same place and posture as he left
him sitting; and at last he found he was not to be seen,—at
which he started up, and without speaking a word, flew with that
swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch
the ground as he went: but when he came he only found he had
lain himself down to ease his limbs, so Friday came back to me
presently, and I then spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help
211
him up, if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he should
carry him to our dwelling, where I would take care of him. But
Friday, a lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon
his back, and carried him away to the boat, and set him down
softly upon the side, or gunnel, of the canoe, with his feet in the
inside of it, and then lifted him quite in, and set him close to his
father; and presently, stepping out again, launched the boat off,
and paddled it along the shore faster than I could walk, though
the wind blew pretty hard too: so he brought them safe into
our creek, and leaving them in the boat, ran away to fetch the
other canoe. As he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him
whither he went He told me, " Go fetch more boat: " so away
he went like the wind, for sure never man or horse ran like him;
and he had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I
got to it by land. So he wafted me over, and then went to help
our new guests out of the boat, which he did; but they were
neither of them able to walk, so that poor Friday knew not what
to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to
Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he came to me,
I soon made a kind of a hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday
and I carried them up both together upon it, between us. But
when we got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification, we
were at a worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get them
over, and I was resolved not to break it down: so I set to work
again, and Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a very
handsome tent, covered with old sails, and above that with
boughs of trees, being in the space without our outward fence,
and between that and the grove of young wood which I had
planted; and here we made them two beds of such things as I
had, viz., of good rice straw, with blankets laid upon it, to lie on,
and another to cover them, on each bed.
Crusoe's subjects and their religions—The dead bodies of the slain savages are buried
—The Spaniard and Friday's father set out for the mainland to fetch Europeans
who had been shipwrecked there—In their absence Crusoe is surprised by the
appearance of a boat-load of mutinous sailors, who bring their officers to the
island to murder them—Crusoe releases the prisoners—The mutineers are
attacked and defeated.
Y island was now peopled, and I thought myself very
rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection,
which I frequently made, how like a king I looked.
First of all, the whole country was my own mere
property, so that I had an undoubted right of
dominion. Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected,—I was
absolute lord and lawgiver; they all owed their lives to me, and
were ready to lay down their lives, if there had been occasion of
it, for me. It was remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and
they were of three different religions: my man Friday was a Pro-
testant, his father was a Pagan and a cannibal, and the Spaniard
was a Papist However, I allowed liberty of conscience throughout
my dominions. But this is by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners, and
given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began to think
of making some provision for them; and the first thing I did, I
ordered Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat,
out of my particular flock, to be killed,—when I cut off the hinder
quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday to work
to boiling and stewing, and made them a very good dish, I assure
you, of flesh and broth, having put some barley and rice also into
the broth: and as I cooked it without doors, for I made no fire
within my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent, and
having set a table there for them, I sat down and ate my own
dinner also with them, and, as well as I could, cheered them and

encouraged them; Friday being my interpreter, especially to his
father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard too,—for the Spaniard spoke
the language of the savages pretty well.
- After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take
one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other fire-
arms, which, for want of time, we had left upon the place of battle;
and the next day, I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies
of the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently be
offensive. I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
barbarous feast, which I knew were pretty much, and which I
could not think of doing myself,—nay, I could not bear to see
them, if I went that way; all which he punctually performed, and
effaced the very appearance of the savages being there,—so that
when I went again, I could scarce know where it was, otherwise
than by the corner of the wood pointing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new
subjects; and first, I set Friday to inquire of his father what he
thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether
we might expect a return of them, with a power too great for us
to resist. His first opinion was that the savages in the boat never
could live out the storm which blew that night they went off, but
must of necessity be drowned, or driven south to those other shores,
where they were as sure to be devoured, as they were to be drowned
if they were cast away: but as to what they would do if they came
safe on shore, he said he knew not; but it was his opinion that
they were so dreadfully frighted with the manner of their being
attacked, the noise, and the fire, that he believed they would tell
their people they were all killed by thunder and lightning, not by
the hand of man; and that the two which appeared, viz., Friday
and I, were two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy
them, and not men with weapons. This, he said, he knew, because
he heard them all cry out so in their language to one another; for
it was impossible to them to conceive that a man could dart fire,
and speak thunder, and kill at a distance, without lifting up the
hand, as was done now. And this old savage was in the right; for,
as I understood since, by other hands, the savages never attempted
to go over to the island afterwards,—they were so terrified with the
accounts given by those four men (for, it seems, they did escape
the sea), that they believed whoever went to that enchanted island
would be destroyed with fire from the gods.
This, however, I knew not; and therefore was under continual
apprehensions for a good while, and kept always upon my guard, I
and all my army; for, as there were now four of us, I would have ven-
tured upon a hundred of them, fairly in the open field at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear of
their coming wore off, and I began to take my former thoughts of
a voyage to the main into consideration,—being likewise assured
by Friday's father that I might depend upon good usage from their
nation, on his account, if I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended when I had a serious
discourse with the Spaniard, and when I understood that there
were fourteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who, having
been cast away, and made their escape to that side, lived there at
peace, indeed, with the savages, but were very sore put to it for
necessaries, and indeed for life. I asked him all the particulars
of their voyage, and found they were a Spanish ship, bound from
the Rio de la Plata to the Havanna, being directed to leave their
loading there, which was chiefly hides and silver, and to bring
back what European goods they could meet with there; that they
had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom they took out of
another wreck; that five of their own men were drowned, when
first the ship was lost, and that these escaped through infinite
dangers and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal
coast, where they expected to have been devoured every moment
He told me they had some arms with them, but they were perfectly
useless, for that they had neither powder nor ball, the washing of
the sea having spoiled all their powder but a little, which they
used, at their first landing, to provide themselves some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and
if they had formed no design of making any escape. He said
they had many consultations about it, but that having neither
vessel, nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind, their
councils always ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he
thought they would receive a proposal from me which might tend
towards an escape; and whether, if they were all here, it might
not be done. I told him, with freedom, I feared mostly their
treachery and ill usage of me, if I put my life in their hands; for
that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor did
men always square their dealings by the obligations they had
received, so much as they did by the advantages they expected.
215
I told him it would be very hard that I should be the instrument
of their deliverance, and that they should afterwards make me
their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman was certain to
be made a sacrifice, what necessity or what accident soever brought
him thither; and that 1 had rather be delivered up to the savages,
and be devoured alive, than fall into the merciless claws of the
priests, and be carried into the Inquisition. I added, that other-
wise I was persuaded, if they were all here, we might, with so
many hands, build a bark large enough to carry us all away, either
to the Brazils, southward, or to the islands, or Spanish coast,
northward; but that if, in requital, they should, when I had put
weapons into their hands, carry me by force among their own
people, I might be ill used for my kindness to them, and make
my case worse than it was before.
He answered with a great deal of candour and ingenuity, that
their condition was so miserable, and they were so sensible of it,
that he believed they would abhor the thought of using any man
unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance; and that,
if I pleased, he would go to them with the old man, and discourse
with them about it, and return again, and bring me their answer;
that he would make conditions with them upon their solemn oath,
that they would be absolutely under my leading, as their com-
mander and captain; and that they should swear upon the holy
sacraments and gospel to be true to me, and go to such Christian
country as that I should agree to, and no other, and to be directed
wholly and absolutely by my orders, till they were landed safely
in such country as I intended; and that he would bring a con-
tract from them, under their hands, for that purpose.
Then he told me he would first swear to me himself, that he
would never stir from me as long as he lived, till I gave him orders;
and that he would take my side to the last drop of his blood, if there
should happen the least breach of faith among his countrymen.
He told me they were all of them very civil, honest men, and
they were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither
weapons nor clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion
of the savages, out of all hopes of ever returning to their own
country; and that he was sure, if I would undertake their relief,
they would live and die by me.
Upon these assurances I resolved to venture to relieve them,
if possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to
them to treat. But when we had gotten all things in a readiness
to go, the Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so
much prudence in it, on one hand, and so much sincerity
on the other hand, that I could not but be very well satis-
fied in it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of his
comrades for at least half a year. The case was thus: He had
been with us now about a month, during which time I had let him
see in what manner I had provided, with the assistance of Provi-
dence, for my support; and he saw evidently what stock of corn
and rice I had laid up, which, as it was more than sufficient for
myself, so it was not sufficient, at least without good husbandry,
for my family, now it was increased to four; but much less would
it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as he said, fourteen
still alive, should come over; and least of all would it be suffi-
cient to victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a voyage
to any of the Christian colonies of America: so he told me he
thought it would be more advisable to let him and the two other
dig and cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed
to sow, and that we should wait another harvest, that we might
have a supply of corn for his countrymen, when they should
come: for want might be a temptation to them to disagree, or
not to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one
difficulty into another. You know, says he, the children of
Israel, though they rejoiced at first for their being delivered out
of Egypt, yet rebelled even against God Himself, that delivered
them, when they came to want bread in the Wilderness.
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I
could not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I
was satisfied with his fidelity: so we fell to digging all four of us,
as well as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted;
and in about a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-
time, we had gotten as much land cured and trimmed up as we
sowed two and twenty bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of
rice, which was, in short, all the seed we had to spare: nor,
indeed, did we leave ourselves barley sufficient for our own food
for the six months that we had to expect our crop,—that is to say,
reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for sowing; for it is
not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in that country.
Having now society enough, and our number being sufficient
to put us out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless their
•
number had been very great, we went freely all over the island,
wherever we found occasion; and as here we had our escape or
deliverance upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me,
to have the means of it out of mine. To this purpose, I marked
out several trees which I thought fit for our work, and I set
Friday and his father to cutting them down; and then I caused
the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thought on that affair, to
oversee and direct their work. I showed them with what inde-
fatigable pains I had hewed a large tree into single planks, and I
caused them to do the like, till they had made about a dozen
large planks of good oak, near two feet broad, thirty-five feet
long, and from two inches to four inches thick: what prodigious
labour it took up, any one may imagine.
At the same time 1 contrived to increase my little flock of tame
goats as much as I could, and, to this purpose, I made Friday
and the Spaniard go out one day, and myself with Friday the
next day (for we took our turns), and by this means we got about
twenty young kids to breed up with the rest; for whenever we
shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added them to our flock.
But, above all, the season for curing the grapes coming on, I
caused such a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that,
I believe, had we been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun
are cured, we could have filled sixty or eighty barrels; and these,
with our bread, was a great part of our food, and very good living
too, I assure you, for it is an exceeding nourishing food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was not the
most plentiful increase I had seen in the island; but, however, it
was enough to answer our end,—for from our twenty-two bushels
of barley we brought in and threshed out above two hundred and
twenty bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice; which was
store enough for our food to the next harvest, though all the four-
teen Spaniards had been on shore with me; or if we had been ready
for a voyage, it would very plentifully have victualled our ship to
have carried us to any part of the world, that is to say, of America.
When we had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn,
we fell to work to make more wickerwork, viz., great baskets, in
which we kept it, and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous
at this part, and often blamed me that I did not make some things
for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no need of it.
And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests I ex-
ADVENTURES OF
pected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to see
what he could do with those he had left behind them there. I
gave him a strict charge, in writing, not to bring any man with
him who would not first swear, in the presence of himself and of
the old savage, that he would in no way injure, fight with, or attack
the person he would find in the island, who was so kind as to send
for them in order to their deliverance; but that they would stand
by, and defend him against all such attempts, and wherever they
went, would be entirely under and subjected to his command; and
that this should be put in writing, and signed with their hands.
How we were to have this done, when I knew they had neither
pen nor ink, that indeed was a question which we never asked.
Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old savage, the
father of Friday, went away in one of the canoes which they
might be said to come in, or rather were brought in, when they
came as prisoners to be devoured by the savages. I gave each of
them a musket, with a firelock on it, and about eight charges of
powder and ball, charging them to be very good husbands of
both, and not to use either of them but upon urgent occasions.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by me,
in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some
days. I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, suffi-
cient for themselves for many days, and sufficient for all the Spaniards
for about eight days' time ; and wishing them a good voyage, I saw
them go, agreeing with them about a signal they should hang out
at their return, by which I should know them again, when they
came back, at a distance, before they came on shore.
They went away with a fair gale, on the day that the moon was
at full, by my account in the month of October; but as for an exact
reckoning of days, after I had once lost it, I could never recover.it
again, nor had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to
be sure I was right, though, as it proved, when I afterwards examined
my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of years.
It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has
not perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch
one morning, when my man Friday came running in to me, and
called aloud, "Master, master, they are come, they are come!"
I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as
I could get my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by
219
the way, was by this time grown to be a very thick wood;—I say,
regardless of danger, I went without my arms, which it was not
my custom to do; but I was surprised, when turning my eyes to
the sea, I presently saw a boat at about a league and a halfs
distance, standing in for the shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail,
as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in:
also I observed presently, that they did not come from that side
which the shore lay on, but from the southernmost end of the
island. Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie close,
for these were not the people we looked for, and that we might
not know yet whether they were friends or enemies.
In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective glass, to
see what I could make of them; and having taken the ladder
out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I
was apprehensive of anything, and to take my view the plainer
without being discovered.
I had scarce set my foot upon the hill, when my eye plainly dis-
covered a ship lying at an anchor, at about two leagues and a halfs
distance from me, south-south-east, but not above a league and a
half from the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to be
an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in; though the joy of
seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manned
by my own countrymen, and, consequently, friends, was such as
I cannot describe; but yet I had some secret doubts hang about
me—I cannot tell from whence they came—bidding me keep
upon my guard. In the first place, it occurred to me to consider
what business an English ship could have in that part of the
world, since it was not the way to or from any part of the
world where the English had any traffic: and I knew there had
been no storms to drive them in there, as in distress; and that
if they were really English, it was most probable that they were
here upon no good design, and that I had better continue as I
was, than fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger,
which sometimes are given him when he may think there is no
possibility of its being real. That such hints and notices are
given us, I believe few that have made any observations of things
can deny; that they are certain discoveries of an invisible world,
and a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the tendency
ADVENTURES OF
of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why should we not
suppose they are from some friendly agent (whether supreme, or
inferior and subordinate, is not the question), and that they are
given for our good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in the justice of
this reasoning; for had I not been made cautious by this secret
admonition, come it from whence it will, I had been undone
inevitably, and in a far worse condition than before, as you will
see presently. I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I
saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek
to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing; however, as they
did not come quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet
where I formerly landed my rafts, but ran their boat on shore
upon the beach at about half a mile from me, which was very
happy for me; for otherwise they would have landed just, as I
may say, at my door, and would soon have beaten me out of my
castle, and perhaps have plundered me of all I had.
When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they were
Englishmen, at least most of them; one or two I thought were
Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in all eleven men,
whereof three of them I found were unarmed, and, as I thought,
bound; and when the first four or five of them were jumped on
shore, they took those three out of the boat, as prisoners: one of
the three I could perceive using the most passionate gestures of
entreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind of extravagance;
the other two, I could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes,
and appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the
first. I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not
what the meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me in
English, as well as he could, "O master! you see English mans
eat prisoner as well as savage mans." "Why," says I, "Friday,
do you think they are going to eat them then?" "Yes," says
Friday, "they will eat them." "No, no," says I, "Friday, I am
afraid they will murder them, indeed; but you may be sure they
will not eat them."
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was,
but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every
moment when the three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I
saw one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the
seamen call it, or sword, to strike one of the poor men, and I
expected to see him fall every moment, at which all the blood in
my body seemed to run chill in my veins. I wished heartily now
for my Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with him, or that
I had any way to have come undiscovered within shot of them,
that I might have rescued the three men, for I saw no firearms
they had among them: but it fell out to my mind another way.
After I had observed the outrageous usage of the three men by
the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows run scattering about
the island, as if they wanted to see the country. I observed that
the three other men had liberty to go also where they pleased;
but they sat down all three upon the ground, very pensive, and
looked like men in despair.
This put me in mind of the first time when I came on shore
and began to look about me: how I gave myself over for lost;
how wildly I looked around me; what dreadful apprehensions I
had; and how I lodged in the tree all night, for fear of being
devoured by wild beasts. As I knew nothing that night of the
supply I was to receive by the providential driving of the ship
nearer the land by the storms and tide, by which I have since
been so long nourished and supported: so these three poor deso-
late men knew nothing how certain of deliverance and supply
they were, how near it was to them, and how effectually and really
they were in a condition of safety, at the same time that they
thought themselves lost, and their case desperate. So little do
we see before us in the world, and so much reason have we to
depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world, that He
does not leave His creatures so absolutely destitute, but that,
in the worst circumstances, they have always something to be
thankful for, and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they
imagine; nay, are even brought to their deliverance by the means
by which they seem to be brought to their destruction.
It was just at the top of high water when these people came on
shore; and while partly they stood parleying with the prisoners
they brought, and partly while they rambled about to see what
kind of a place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the
tide was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably away,
leaving their boat aground. They had left two men in the boat,
who, as I found afterwards, having drunk a little too much brandy,
fell asleep; however, one of them waking sooner than the other,
and finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed
ADVENTURES OF
for the rest, who were straggling about, upon which they all soon
came to the boat; but it was past all their strength to launch her,
the boat being very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft
oozy sand, almost like a quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are perhaps the least
of all mankind given to forethought, they gave it over, and away
they strolled about the country again; and I heard one of the in
say aloud to another, calling them off from the boat, " Why, let her
alone, Jack, can't you? she'll float next tide," by which I was fully
confirmed in the main inquiry of what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring to stir
out of my castle, any farther than to my place of observation neai
the top of the hill; and very glad I was to think how well it wa3
fortified. I knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat
could be on float again, and by that time it would be dark, and I
might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to hear their
discourse, if they had any.
In the meantime I fitted myself up for a battle, as before, though
with more caution, knowing I had to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered Friday also, whom I had
made an excellent marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms.
I took myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three muskets.
My figure, indeed, was very fierce: I had my formidable goat's
skin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned, a naked sword
by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt
till it was dark; but, about two o'clock, being the heat of the day,
I found, that, in short, they were all gone straggling into the woods,
and, as I thought, laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed
men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were, how-
ever, set down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter
of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn
something of their condition. Immediately I marched in the
figure as above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as
formidable for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a
spectre-like figure as I did.
I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then, before
any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, "What
are ye, gentlemen?"
223
They started up at the noise; but were ten times more con-
founded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that I made.
They made no answer at all, but I thought I perceived them just
going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in English. "Gentle-
men," said I, "do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may have
a friend near, when you did not expect it." "He must be sent
directly from Heaven, then," said one of them very gravely to me,
and pulling off his hat at the same time to me, "for our condition
is past the help of man." "All help is from Heaven, sir," said I;
"but can you put a stranger in the way how to help you? for you
seem to be in some great distress. I saw you when you landed;
and when you seemed to make supplication to the brutes that
came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you."
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trembling,
looking like one astonished, returned, "Am I talking to God or
man? Is it a real man or an angel?" "Be in no fear about that,
sir," said I; "if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would
have come better clothed, and better armed after another manner
than you see me: pray lay aside your fears; I am a man, an
Englishman, and disposed to assist you: you see I have one ser-
vant only; we have arms and ammunition,—tell us freely, can we
serve you? What is your case?"
"Our case," said he, "sir, is too long to tell you, while our
murderers are so near us: but, in short, sir, I was commander of
that ship; my men have mutinied against me; they have been
hardly prevailed on not to murder me; and at last have set me on
shore in this desolate place, with these two men with me, one my
mate, the other a passenger, where we expected to perish, believing
the place to be uninhabited, and know not yet what to think of it."
"Where are these brutes, your enemies?" said I: "do you know
where they are gone?" "There they lie, sir," said he, pointing
to a thicket of trees; "my heart trembles for fear they have seen us,
and heard you speak; if they have, they will certainly murder us alL"
"Have they any firearms?" said I. He answered, " They have
only two pieces, one of which they have left in the boat." "Well,
then," said I, "leave the rest to me; I see they are all asleep, it
is an easy thing to kill them all: but shall we rather take them
prisoners?" He told me there were two desperate villains among
them, that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to; but if they
were secured, he believed all the rest would return to their duty.
ADVENTURES OF
I asked him which they were? He told me he could not at that
distance distinguish them, but he would obey my orders in anything
I would direct. "Well," said I, "let us retreat out of their view
or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve farther." So they
willingly went back with me, till the woods covered us from them.
"Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliverance,
are you willing to make two conditions with me?" He antici-
pated my proposals, by telling me, that both he and the ship, if
recovered, should be wholly directed and commanded by me in
everything; and if the ship was not recovered, he would live and
die with me in what part of the world soever I would send him;
and the two other men said the same.
"Well," says I, "my conditions are but two—First, That while
you stay in this island with me, you will not pretend to any
authority here; and if I put arms into your hands, you will, upon
all occasions, give them up to me, and do no prejudice to me or
mine upon this island, and, in the meantime, be governed by my
orders. Second, That if the ship is, or may be recovered, you
will carry me and my man to England passage free."
He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith o^
man could devise, that he would comply with these most reason-
able demands; and, besides, would owe his life to me, and
acknowledge it upon all occasions, as long as he lived.
"Well, then," said I, "here are three muskets for you, with
powder and ball: tell me next what you think is proper to be
done." He showed all the testimony of his gratitude that he
was able, but offered to be wholly guided by me. I told him I
thought it was hard venturing anything; but the best method I
could think of was to fire upon them at once, as they lay, and if
any were not killed at the first volley, and offered to submit, we
might save them, and so put it wholly upon God's providence to
direct the shot.
He said very modestly, that he was loath to kill them, if he
could help it—but that those two were incorrigible villains, and
had been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they
escaped, we should be undone still; for they would go on board
and bring the whole ship's company, and destroy us all. "Well,
then," says I, "necessity legitimates my advice, for it is the only
way to save our lives." However, seeing him still cautious of
shedding blood, I told him they should go themselves, and
manage as they found convenient
225
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake,
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet I asked him
if either of them were the heads of the mutiny? He said, "No."
"Well, then," said I, " you may let them escape; and Providence
seems to have awakened them on purpose to save themselves.
Now," says I, "if the rest escape you, it is your fault."
Animated with this, he took the musket I had given him in his
hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him,
each man a piece in his hand: the two men who were with him
going first, made some noise, at which one of the seamen who
was awake turned about, and seeing them coming, cried out to
the rest; but it was too late then, for the moment he cried out
they fired; I mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his
own piece. They had so well aimed their shot at the men they
knew, that one of them was killed on the spot, and the other very
much wounded; but not being dead, he started up on his feet,
and called eagerly for help to the others, but the captain, stepping
to him, told him it was too late to cry for help, he should call
upon God to forgive his villany, and with that word knocked
him down with the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke
more: there were three more in the company, and one of them
was also slightly wounded. By this time I was come; and when
they saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged
for mercy. The captain told them he would spare their lives, if
they would give him any assurance of their abhorrence of the
treachery they had been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful
to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her
back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him all the
protestations of their sincerity that could be desired, and he was
willing to believe them, and spare their lives, which I was not
against,—only I was obliged to keep them bound hand and foot
while they were upon the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to
the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring away the oars and
sail, which they did; and by and by three straggling men, that
were (happily for them) parted from the rest, came back upon
hearing the guns fired, and seeing their captain, who before was
their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be bound
also; and so our victory was complete.
r
Crusoe and the captain consult how they may recover the ship from the mutineers—
In the meanwhile a fresh party come ashore—An ambuscade is contrived, and
the mutineers lay down their arms—The captain promises mercy to all except
Will Atkins—The ship taken from the mutineers—Crusoe leaves the island, in
which he had lived for twenty-eight yean.
T now remained that the captain and I should inquire
into one another's circumstances. I began first,
and told him my whole history, which he heard
with an attention even to amazement, and particu-
larly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished
with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a
whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply. But when
he reflected from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have
been preserved there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran
down his face, and he could not speak a word more.
After this communication was at an end, I carried him and his
two men into my apartment, leading them in just where I came
out, viz., at the top of the house, where I refreshed them with
such provisions as I had, and showed them all the contrivances
I had made, during my long, long inhabiting that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing;
but, above all, the captain admired my fortification, and how
perfectly I had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which,
having been now planted near twenty years, and the trees growing
much faster than in England, was become a little wood, and so
thick, that it was impassable in any part of it, but at that one side
where I had reserved my little winding passage into it. This I
told him was my castle and my residence, but that I had a seat
in the country, as most princes have, whither I could retreat
upon occasion, and I would show him that too another time;

but at present our business was to consider how to recover the
ship. He agreed with me as to that; but told me he was per-
fectly at a loss what measures to take, for that there were still six-
and-twenty hands on board, who having entered into a cursed
conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives to the law,
would be hardened in it now by desperation, and would carry it
on, knowing that, if they were subdued, they would be brought
to the gallows as soon as they came to England, or to any of the
English colonies; and that, therefore, there would be no attacking
them with so small a number as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it
was a very rational conclusion, and that, therefore, something
was to be resolved on speedily, as well to draw the men on board
into some snare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing
upon us, and destroying us. Upon this, it presently occurred to
me that, in a little while, the ship's crew, wondering what was
become of their comrades and of the boat, would certainly come
on shore in their other boat, to look for them; and that then,
perhaps, they might come armed, and be too strong for us: this
he allowed was rational.
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to stave
the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry
her off; and taking everything out of her, leave her so far use-
less as not to be fit to swim: accordingly we went on board, took
the arms which were left on board out of her, and whatever else
we found there, which was a bottle of brandy, and another of
rum, a few biscuit-cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump of
sugar in a piece of canvas (the sugar was five or six pounds), all
which was very welcome to me, especially the brandy and sugar,
of which I had had none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars, mast,
sail and rudder of the boat were carried away before, as above),
we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if they had come
strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry off the boat. Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that we could be able to recover the ship; but my view was, that if they went away with-
out the boat, I did not much question to make her fit again to
carry us to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends the
Spaniards in my way, for I had them still in my thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by
ADVENTURES OF
main strength, heaved the boat upon the beach so high that the
tide would not float her off at high-water mark, and besides had
broken a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and
were set down musing what we should do, we heard the ship fire
a gun, and saw her make a waft with her ancient as a signal for
the boat to come on board; but no boat stirred, and they fired
several times, making other signals for the boat.
At last, when all their signals and firing proved fruitless, and
they found the boat did not stir, we saw them (by the help of my
glasses) hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore; and
we found, as they approached, that there were no less than ten
men in her, and that they had fire-arms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a
full view of them as they came, and a plain sight even of their
faces, because the tide having set them a little to the east of the
other boat, they rowed up under shore, to come to the same
place where the other had landed, and where the boat lay.
By this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and the
captain knew the persons and characters of all the men in the
boat, of whom, he said, that there were three very honest fellows,
who, he was sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being
overpowered and frighted; but that as for the boatswain, who,
it seems, was the chief officer among them, and all the rest, they
were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and were no doubt
made desperate in their new enterprise; and terribly apprehensive
he was that they would be too powerful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him that men in our circumstances
were past the operation of fear,—that, considering every condition
that could be was better than that we were supposed to be in,
we ought to expect that the consequence, whether death or life,
would be sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he thought
of the circumstances of my life, and whether a deliverance were
not worth venturing for? "And where, sir," said I, "is your
belief of my being preserved here on purpose to save your life,
which elevated you a little while ago? For my part," said I,
"there seems to me but one thing amiss in all the prospect of
it." "What is that?" says he. "Why," said I, "it is, that as
you say there are three or four honest fellows among them, which
should be spared; had they been all of the wicked part of the
crew I should have thought God's providence had singled them
229
out to deliver them into your hands; for, depend upon it, every
man of them that comes ashore are our own, and shall die or
live as they behave to us."
As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful countenance,
I found it greatly encouraged him; so we set vigorously to our
business. We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's
coming from the ship, considered of separating our prisoners,
and had, indeed, secured them effectually. Two of them, of
whom the captain was less assured than ordinary, I sent with
Friday and one of the three delivered men to my cave, where they
were remote enough, and out of danger of being heard or dis-
covered, or of finding their way out of the woods if they could
have delivered themselves: here they left them bound, but gave
them provisions; and promised them, if they continued there
quietly, to give them their liberty in a day or two, but that if
they attempted their escape, they should be put to death without
mercy. They promised faithfully to bear their confinement with
patience, and were very thankful that they had such good usage
as to have provisions and a light left them, for Friday gave them
candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort, and they did
not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage: two of them were kept
pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them;
but the other two were taken into my service, upon the captain's
recommendation, and upon their solemnly engaging to live and
die with us. So with them and the three honest men we were
seven men well armed, and I made no doubt we should be able
to deal well enough with the ten that were coming, considering
that the captain had said there were three or four honest men
among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay,
they run their boat into the beach, and came all on shore, hauling
the boat up after them, which I was glad to see; for I was afraid
they would rather have left the boat at an anchor, some distance
from the shore, with some hands in her to guard her, and so we
should not be able to seize the boat.
Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to their
other boat, and it was easy to see they were under a great surprise
to find her stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a great
hole in her bottom.
ADVENTURES OF
After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up two or
three great shouts, hallooing with all their might, to try if they
could make their companions hear; but all was to no purpose:
then they came all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their
small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes made the
woods ring. But it was all one: those in the cave we were sure
could not hear; and those in our keeping, though they heard it
well enough, yet durst give no answer to them.
They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that, as they
told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board again to their
ship, and let them know there that the men were all murdered,
and the long-boat staved: accordingly, they immediately launched
their boat again, and got all of them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed and even confounded at this,
believing they would go on board the ship again, and set sail,
giving their comrades up for lost, and so he should still lose the
ship, which he was in hopes we should have recovered; but he
was quickly as much frighted the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but we perceived
them all coming on shore again; but with this new measure in
their conduct, which it seems they consulted together upon, viz.,
to leave three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and
go up into the country to look for their fellows.
This was a great disappointment to us, for we were now at a
loss what to do; for our seizing those seven men on shore would
be no advantage to us, if we let the boat escape, because they
would then row away to the ship, and then the rest of them would
be sure to weigh and set sail, and so our recovery of the ship
would be lost
However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue
of things might present. The seven men came on shore, and the
three who remained in the boat put her off to a good distance
from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that
it was impossible for us to come at them in the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together, marching
towards the top of the little hill under which my habitation lay;
and we could see them plainly, though they could not perceive
us: we could have been very glad they would have come nearer
to us, so that we might have fired at them, or that they would
have gone farther off, that we might have come abroad.
231
But when they were come to the brow of the hill, where they
could see a great way into the valleys and woods, which lay
towards the north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they
shouted and hallooed till they were weary; and not caring, it
seems, to venture far from the shore, nor far from one another,
they sat down together under a tree, to consider of it. Had they
thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as the other party of
them had done, they had done the job for us; but they were too
full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep, though
they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this con-
sultation of theirs, viz., that perhaps they would all fire a volley
again, to endeavour to make their fellows hear, and that we
should all sally upon them, just at the juncture when their pieces
were all discharged, and they would certainly yield, and we
should have them without bloodshed. I liked this proposal, pro-
vided it was done while we were near enough to come up to
them before they could load their pieces again.
But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long time,
very irresolute what course to take. At length I told him there
would be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and then, if
they did not return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to
get between them and the shore, and so might use some strata-
gem with them in the boat to get them on shore.
We waited a great while, though very impatient for their remov-
ing, and were very uneasy, when, after long consultations, we saw
them all start up, and march down towards the sea: it seems they
had such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the danger of the
place, that they resolved to go on board the ship again, give their
companions over for lost, and so go on with their intended voyage
with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them to go towards the shore, I imagined
it to be, as it really was, that they had given over their search, and
were for going back again; and the captain, as soon as I told him
my thoughts, was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it; but I
presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and
which answered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over the little
creek westward, towards the place where the savages came on
shore when Friday was rescued, and as soon as they came to a
little rising ground, at about half a mile's distance, I bade them
halloo as loud as they could, and wait till they found the seamen
heard them; that as soon as ever they heard the seamen answer
them, they should return it again, and then, keeping out of sight,
take a round, always answering them when the others hallooed,
to draw them as far into the island, and among the woods, as
possible, and then wheel about again to me, by such ways as I
directed.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate
hallooed; and they presently heard them, and answering, ran
along the shore westward, towards the voice they heard, when
they were presently stopped by the creek, where, the water being
up, they could not get over, and called for the boat to come up
and set them over,—as, indeed, I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat
being gone a good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a harbour
within the land, they took one of the three men out of her to go
along with them, and left only two in the boat, having fastened her
to the stump of a little tree on the shore.
This was what I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday
and the captain's mate to their business, I took the rest with me,
and crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men
before they were aware,—one of them lying on the shore, and the
other being in the boat: the fellow on shore was between sleeping
and waking, and, going to start up, the captain, who was foremost,
ran in upon him, and knocked him down, and then called out to
him in the boat to yield, or he was a dead man.
There needed very few arguments to persuade a single man to
yield, when he saw five men upon him, and his comrade knocked
down; besides, this was, it seems, one of the three who were not
so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was
easily persuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to join very
sincerely with us.
In the meantime, Friday and the captain's mate so well managed
their business with the rest, that they drew them, by hallooing and
answering, from one hill to another, and from one wood to another,
till they not only heartily tired them, but left them where they were
very sure they could not reach back to the boat before it was dark;
and indeed they were heartily tired themselves also by the time
they came back to us.
233
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark,
and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them.
It was several hours after Friday came back to me before they
came back to their boat, and we could hear the foremost of them,
long before they came quite up, calling to those behind to come
along, and could also hear them answer, and complain how lame
and tired they were, and not able to come any faster, which was
very welcome news to us.
At length they came up to the boat; but it is impossible to
express their confusion when they found the boat fast aground in
the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. We could
hear them call to one another in a most lamentable manner, telling
one another they were gotten into an enchanted island; that either
there were inhabitants in it, and they should all be murdered, or
else there were devils or spirits in it, and they should be all carried
away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two comrades by their
names a great many times; but no answer: after some time, we
could see them by the little light there was, run about, wringing
their hands like men in despair, and that sometimes they would
go and sit down in the boat to rest themselves, then come ashore
again, and walk about again, and so the same thing over again.
My men would fain have had me give them leave to fall upon
them in the dark; but I was willing to take them at some advan-
tage, so to spare them, and kill as few of them as I could: and
especially I was unwilling to hazard the killing any of our men,
knowing the others were very well armed. I resolved to wait, to
see if they did not separate; and, therefore, to make sure of them,
I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain
to creep upon their hands and feet as close to the ground as they
could, that they might not be discovered, and get as near them as
they could possibly, before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, when the boatswain,
who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and had now shown
himself the most dejected and dispirited of all the rest, came walking
towards them with two more of the crew : the captain was so eager
at having the principal rogue so much in his power, that he could
hardly have patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him,
for they only heard his tongue before: but when they came nearer,
the captain and Friday, starting upon their feet, let fly at them.
ADVENTURES OF
The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next man was shot
in the body, and fell just by him, though he did not die till an hour
or two after; and the third ran for it.
At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced with my whole
army, which was now eight men, viz., myself, generalissimo; Friday,
my lieutenant-general; the captain and his two men, and the three prisoners of war, whom we had trusted with arms.
We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not
see our number; and I made the man they had left in the boat,
who was now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could
bring them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to terms,
which fell out just as we desired, for, indeed, it was easy to think,
as their condition then was, they would be very willing to capitu-
late. So he calls out, as loud as he could, to one of them, "Tom
Smith! Tom Smith I" Tom Smith answered immediately, "Who's
that? Robinson?" For it seems he knew the voice. The other
answered, "Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your
arms and yield, or you are all dead men this moment"
"Who must we yield to? Where are they?" says Smith,
again. "Here they are," says he, "here's our captain and fifty
men with him, have been hunting you these two hours: the boat-
swain is killed, Will Fry is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and
if you do not yield, you are all lost." "Will they give us quarter
then ?" says Tom Smith, "and we will yield."—" I will go ask, if you promise to yield," says Robinson. So he asked the captain;
and the captain himself then calls out, "You, Smith, you know
my voice; if you lay down your arms immediately, and submit,
you shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins."
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, captain, give
me quarter; what have I done? they have all been as bad as I,"—
which by the way was not true neither, for it seems this Will Atkins
was the first man that laid hold of the captain when they first
mutinied, and used him barbarously, in tying his hands, and giving
him injurious language. However, the captain told him he must
lay down his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy,
by which he meant me, for they all called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their
lives; and I sent the man who had parleyed with them, and two
more, who bound them all: and then my great army of fifty
men, which, particularly with those three, were in all but eight,
23s
came up and seized upon them all, and upon their boat, only that
I kept myself and one more out of sight for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think of seizing
the ship; and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley
with them, he expostulated with them upon the villany of their
practices with him, and at length upon the further wickedness of
their design, and how certainly it must bring them to misery and
distress in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for their
lives. As for that, he told them they were none of his prisoners,
but the commander's of the island; that they thought they
had set him on shore in a barren, uninhabited island, but it
had pleased God so to direct them, that the island was inhabited,
and that the governor was an Englishman; that he might hang
them all there, if he pleased; but, as he had given them all
quarter, he supposed he would send them to England, to be
dealt with there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was
commanded by the governor to advise to prepare for death, for that he would be hanged in the morning.
Though all this was but a fiction of his own, yet it had its
desired effect: Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg the captain to
intercede with the governor for his life; and all the rest begged
of him, for God's sake, that they might not be sent to England.
It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was
come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these
fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship; so I
retired in the dark from them, that they might not see what kind
of a governor they had, and called the captain to me: when I
called, as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to speak
again, and say to the captain, "Captain, the commander calls for
you ;" and presently the captain replied, "Tell his excellency I
am just a-coming." This more perfectly amused them, and they
all believed that the commander was just by with his fifty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my project for
seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and resolved
to put it in execution the next morning.
But in order to execute it with more heart, and to be secure
of success, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and that he
should go and take Atkins and two more of the worst of them,
and send them pinioned to the cave where the others lay. This
was committed to Friday and the two men who came on shore
with the captain.
They conveyed them to the cave as to a prison; and it was,
indeed, a dismal place, especially to men in their condition.
The others I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I
have given a full description; and as it was fenced in, and they
pinioned, the place was secure enough, considering they were
upon their behaviour. To these in the morning I sent the captain,
who was to enter into a parley with them,—in a word, to try them,
and tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or no to go
on board and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the injury
done him, of the condition they were brought to, and that though
the governor had given them quarter for their lives as to the pre-
sent action, yet that if they were sent to England, they would all
be hanged in chains, to be sure; but that if they would join in
such an attempt as to recover the ship, he would have the gover-
nor's engagement for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be
accepted by men in their condition; they fell down on their
knees to the captain, and promised, with the deepest imprecations,
that they would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that they
should owe their lives to him, and would go with him all over the
world; that they would own him for a father as long as they lived
.
"Well," says the captain, " 1 must go and tell the governor what
you say, and see what I can do to bring him to consent to it." So he brought me an account of the temper he found them in,
and that he verily believed they would be faithful.
However, that we might be very secure, I told him he should
go back again and choose out five, and tell them that they might
see he did not want men, but that he would take out those five to
be his assistants, and that the governor would keep the other two,
and the three that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave) as
hostages for the fidelity of those five; and that, if they proved
unfaithful in the execution, the five hostages should be hanged in
chains alive on the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that the governor was
in earnest: however, they had no way left them but to accept it;
and it was now the business of the prisoners, as much as of the
captain, to persuade the other five to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition:—x.
The captain, his mate, and passenger.—2. Then the two prisoners
of the first gang, to whom, having their characters from the captain,
I had given their liberty, and trusted them with arms.—3. The
other two that I had kept till now in my bower pinioned, but,
upon the captain's motion, had now released.—4. These five
released at last; so that they were twelve in all, besides five we
kept prisoners in the cave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these hands
on board the ship; but as for me and my man Friday, I did
not think it was proper for us to stir, having seven men left
behind: and it was employment enough for us to keep them
asunder, and supply them with victuals.
As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast, but
Friday went in twice a day to them, to supply them with neces-
saries; and I made the other two carry provisions to a certain
distance, where Friday was to take it.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the
captain, who told them I was the person the governor had ordered
to look after them, and that it was the governor's pleasure they
should not stir anywhere but by my direction; that if they did,
they should be fetched into the castle, and be laid in irons : -so
that, as we never suffered them to see me as a governor, I now
appeared as another person, and spoke of the governor, the
garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish
his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made
his passenger captain of one, with four of the men; and himself,
his mate, and five more, went in the other: and they contrived
their business very well, for they came up to the ship about mid-
night. As soon as they came within call of the ship, he made
Robinson hail them, and tell them they had brought off the men
and the boat, but that it was a long time before they had found
them, and the like, holding them in a chat till they came to the
ship's side; when the captain and the mate entering first, with
their arms, immediately knocked down the second mate and car-
penter with the butt end of their muskets. Being very faithfully
seconded by their men, they secured all the rest that were upon
the main and quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches, to
keep them down that were below; when the other boat and their
men, entering at the fore-chains, secured the forecastle of the ship
ADVENTURES OF
and the scuttle which went down into the cockroom, making
three men they found there prisoners. When this was done, and
all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the mate, with three men,
to break into the round house, where the new rebel captain lay, who
having taken the alarm, had got up, and with two men and a boy
had gotten firearms in their hands; and when the mate, with a
crow, split open the door, the new captain and his men fired boldly
among them,and wounded the mate with a musket ball, which broke
his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody.
The mate, calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-
house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot the new
captain through the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and
came out again behind one of his ears, so that he never spoke a
word: upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken
effectually, without any more lives lost. As soon as the ship was
thus secured, the captain ordered seven guns to be fired, which was
the signal agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success,
which you may be sure I was very glad to hear, having sat watch-
ing upon the shore for it till near two o'clock in the morning.
Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down; and it
having been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till
I was something surprised at the noise of a gun: and presently
starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of "Governor,
Governor," and presently I knew the captain's voice,—when
climbing up to the top of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to
the ship, he embraced me in his arms. "My dear friend and
deliverer," says he, "there's your ship, for she is all yours, and so
are we, and all that belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship
and there she rode within little more than half a mile of the
shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they were
masters of her. and the weather being fair, had brought her to an
anchor just against the mouth of a little creek; and the tide
being up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near the place
where I first landed my rafts, and so landed just at my door.
I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise; for I saw
my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands, all things easy,
and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither I pleased to
go. At first, for some time, I was not able to answer him one
word; but as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him,
or I should have fallen to the ground.
239
He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulls a bottle out
of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial, which he had
brought on purpose for me. After I drank it, I sat down on the
ground; and though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good
while before I could speak a word to him.
All this time the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as I, only
not under any surprise, as I was; and he said a thousand kind
and tender things to me, to compose and bring me to myself:
but such was the flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my
spirits into confusion; at last it broke out into tears, and in a
'ittle while after I recovered my speech.
Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer, and
we rejoiced together. I told him I looked upon him as a man
sent from Heaven to deliver me, and that the whole transaction
seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such things as these were
the testimonies we had of a secret hand of Providence governing
the world, and an evidence that the eyes of an Infinite Power
could search into the remotest corner of the world, and send help
to the miserable whenever He pleased.
I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to Heaven;
and what heart could forbear to bless Him who had not only in
a miraculous manner provided for me in such a wilderness, and
in such a desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance
must always be acknowledged to proceed?
When we had talked a while, the captain told me he had
brought me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded,
and such as the wretches that had been so long his masters had
not plundered him of. Upon this he called aloud to the boat,
and bade his men bring the things ashore that were for the
governor; and, indeed, it was a present as if I had been one that
was not to be carried away with them, but as if I had been to
dwell upon the island still.
First, he brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial
waters; six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two
quarts each); two pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good
pieces of the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of
peas, and about a hundred weight of biscuit: he brought also a
box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles
of lime juice, and abundance of other things. But, besides these,
and what was a thousand times more useful to me, he brought
ADVENTURES OF
me six clean new shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair of
gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings, with a
very good suit of clothes of his own, which had been worn but
very little; in a word, he clothed me from head to foot
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one may
imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was any thing in
the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy, as it
was to me to wear such clothes at their first putting on.
After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good things
were brought into my little apartment, we began to consult what
was to be done with the prisoners we had: for it was worth
considering whether we might venture to take them away with us
or no,—especially two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible
and refractory to the last degree; and the captain said he knew
they were such rogues, that there was no obliging them, and if he
did carry them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to be
delivered over to justice at the first English colony he could
come at; and I found that the captain himself was very anxious
about it Upon this I told him, that if he desired it, I durst
undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it their own
request that he should leave them upon the island. "I should be
very glad of that," says the captain, "with all my heart."
"Well," says I, "I will send for them up, and talk with them
for you." So I caused Friday and the two hostages, for they were
now discharged, their comrades having performed their promise,
—I say, I caused them to go to the cave, and bring up the five
men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keep them there
till I came. After some time, I came thither dressed in my new
habit; and now I was called governor again. Being all met, and
the captain with me, I caused the men to be brought before me,
and I told them I had had a full account of their villanous be-
haviour to the captain, and how they had run away with the ship,
and were preparing to commit further robberies, but that Providence
had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they were fallen into the pit which they had digged for others.
I let them know that by my direction the ship had been seized,
that she lay now in the road, and they might see, by and by, that
their new captain had received the reward of his villany, for that
they would see him hanging at the yard-arm: that as to them, I
wanted to know what they had to say why I should not execute
241
them as pirates taken in the fact, as by my commission they could
not doubt I had authority to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had
nothing to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain
promised them their lives, and they humbly implored my mercy;
but I told them I knew not what mercy to show them, for, as for
myself, I had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had
taken passage with the captain to go for England; and as for the
captain, he could not carry them to England, other than as prisoners
in irons, to be tried for mutiny and running away with the ship—
the consequence of which they must needs know would be the
gallows; so that I could not tell what was best for them, unless
they had a mind to take their fate in the island: if they desired
that, as I had liberty to leave it, I had some inclination to give
them their lives, if they thought they could shift on shore.
They seemed very thankful for it, and said they would much
rather venture to stay there than be carried to England to be
hanged; so I left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, as if
he durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little angry
with the captain, and told him that they were my prisoners, not
his; that, seeing I had offered them so much favour, I would be
as good as my word; and that if he did not think fit to consent to
it, I would set them at liberty as I found them; and if he did not
like that, he might take them again if he could catch them.
Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set
them at liberty, and bade them retire into the woods to the place
whence they came, and I would leave them some firearms, some
ammunition, and some directions how they should live very well,
if they thought fit
Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship, but told the
captain that I would stay that night to prepare my things, and
desired him to go on board in the meantime, and keep all right
in the ship, and send the boat on shore the next day for me,—
ordering him in the meantime to cause the new captain, who was
killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me to my
apartment, and entered seriously into discourse with them of their
circumstances. I told them I thought they had made a right
choice; that if the captain carried them away, they would certainly
Q
be hanged. I showed them the new captain hanging at the yard-
arm of the ship, and told them they had nothing less to expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then told
them I would let them into the story of my living there, and put
them into the way of making it easy to them: accordingly, I gave
them the whole history of the place, and of my coming to it;
showed them my fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted
my corn, cured my grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary
to make them easy. I told them the story also of the fifteen
Spaniards that were to be expected, for whom I left a letter, and
made them promise to treat them in common with themselves.
I left them my firearms, viz., five muskets, three fowling-pieces,
and three swords. I had about a barrel and a half of powder left;
for after the first year or two I used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a description of the way I managed the goats, and
directions to milk and fatten them, and to make both butter and
cheese: in a word, I gave them every part of my own story, and
I told them I should prevail with the captain to leave them two
barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden seeds, which I told
them I would have been very glad of: also I gave them the bag
of peas which the captain had brought me to eat, and bade them
be sure to sow and increase them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on
board the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not
weigh that night. The next morning early, two of the five men
came swimming to the ship's side, and making a most lamentable
complaint of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship, for
God's sake, for they should be murdered, and begged the captain
to take them on board, though he hanged them immediately.
Upon this, the captain pretended to have no power without
me; but after some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of
amendment, they were taken on board, and were some time after
soundly whipped and pickled, after which they proved very
honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore, the tide
being up, with the things promised to the men, to which the
captain, at my intercession, caused their chests and clothes to be
added, which they took, and were very thankful for. I also
encouraged them, by telling them that if it lay in my way to send
any vessol to take them in, I would not forget them.
Crusoe arrives in England, and finds that most of his relations are dead, and that
his benefactor and steward has fallen into misfortune—He goes to Lisbon,
where he makes himself known to the captain of the ship who took him up at
sea, and is put in the way of recovering his property in the Brazils—His posses-
sions are restored, and he finds himself a wealthy man—Makes arrangements
for the conduct of his estate, and sets out for England by way of Spain—An
encounter with wolves—Friday makes merry with a bear—Crusoe arrives in
England, and settles there.

HEN I took leave of this island, I carried on board for
reliques, the great goat-skin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and one of my parrots; also I forgot not
to take the money I formerly mentioned, which had
lain by me so long useless, that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it had been a little
rubbed and handled; as also the money I found in the wreck of
the Spanish ship.
And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as I found
by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon it
eight and twenty years, two months, and nineteen days; being
delivered from the second captivity the same day of the month
that I first made my escape in the barcolongo, from among the
Moors of Sallee. In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in
England the nth of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty and
five years absent When I came to England, I was as perfect a
stranger to all the world as if I had never been known there. My
benefactor and faithful steward, whom I had left in trust with my
money, was alive, but had had great misfortunes in the world—
was become a widow the second time, and very low in the world.
I made her very easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I would
give her no trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude for her former
care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my little stock would
ADVENTURES OF
afford, which at that time would indeed allow me to do but little
for her: but I assured her I would never forget her former kind-
ness to me,—nor did I forget her when I had sufficient to help
her, as shall be observed in its proper place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father was dead,
and my mother and all the family extinct, except that I found two
sisters, and two of the children of one of my brothers; and as I
had been long ago given over for dead, there had been no provi-
sion made for me: so that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve
or assist me; and that little money I had would not do much for
me as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not
expect; and this was, that the master of the ship whom I had so
happily delivered, and by the same means saved the ship and cargo,
having given a very handsome account to the owners of the
manner how I had saved the lives of the men, and the ship, they
invited me to meet them and some other merchants concerned, and
altogether made me a very handsome compliment upon that subject,
and a present of almost two hundred pounds sterling.
But after making several reflections upon the circumstances of
my life, and how little way this would go towards settling me in
the world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come
by some information of the state of my plantation in the Brazils,
and of what was become of my partner, who, I had reason to
suppose, had some years now given me over for dead.
With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in
April following; my man Friday accompanying me very honestly
in all these ramblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all
occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my
particular satisfaction, my old friend the captain of the ship who
first took me up at sea off the shore of Africa. He was now grown
old, and had left off the sea, having put his son, who was far from
a young man, into his ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The
old man did not know me, and, indeed, I hardly knew him; but
I soon brought him to my remembrance, and as soon brought my-
self to his remembrance, when I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance, I
inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation and my partner.
The old man told me he had not been in the Brazils for about
'45
nine years; but that he could assure me that, when he came away,
my partner was living, but the trustees whom I had joined with
him to take cognizance of my part, were both dead; that, however,
he believed I would have a very good account of the improvement
of the plantation, for that upon the general belief of my being cast
away and drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the
produce of my part of the plantation to the procurator-fiscal, who
had appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it, one-third to
the king, and two-thirds to the monastery of St Augustine, to be
expended for the benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of the
Indians to the Catholic faith; but that if I appeared, or any one
for me, to claim the inheritance, it would be restored,—only that the
improvement, or annual production, being distributed to charitable
uses, could not be restored. But he assured me that the steward
of the king's revenue from lands, and the provedore, or steward of
the monastery, had taken great care all along that the incumbent,
that is to say, my partner, gave every year a faithful account of the
produce, of which they received duly my moiety.
I asked him if he knew to what height of improvement he had
brought the plantation, and whether he thought it might be worth
looking after, or whether, on my going thither, I should meet with
no obstruction to my possessing my just right in the moiety?
He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree the planta-
tion was improved; but this he knew, that my partner was grown
exceeding rich upon the enjoying but one-half of it, and that, to
the best of his remembrance, he had heard that the king's third of
my part, which was, it seems, granted away to some other monastery
or religious house, amounted to above two hundred moidores a-year:
that, as to my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there was
no question to be made of that, my partner being alive to witness
my title, and my name being also enrolled in the register of the
country. Also he told me that the survivors of my two trustees
were very fair, honest people, and very wealthy; and he believed
I would not only have their assistance for putting me in possession,
but would find a very considerable sum of money in their hands
for my account, being the produce of the farm while their fathers
held the trust, and before it was given up, as above,—which, as he
remembered, was for about twelve years.
I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account,
and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the
ABVENTURES OF
trustees should thus dispose of my effects, when he knew that I
had made my will, and had made him, the Portuguese captain,
my universal heir, &c.
He told me that was true, but that, as there was no proof of
my being dead, he could not act as executor, until some certain
account should come of my death; and that, besides, he was not
willing to intermeddle with a'thing so remote; that it was true he
had registered my will, and put in his claim, and, could he have
given any account of my being dead or alive, he would have acted
by procuration, and taken possession of the ingenio (so they called
the sugar-house), and have given his son, who was now at the
Brazils, order to do it "But," says the old man, "I have one
piece of news to tell you, which, perhaps, may not be so accept-
able to you as the rest; and that is, that, believing you were lost,
and all the world believing so also, your partner and trustees did
offer to account to me in your name for six or eight of the first
years of profit, which I received; but there being at that time,"
says he, "great disbursements for increasing the works, building
an ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near so much
as afterwards it produced . However," says the old man, "I
shall give you a true account of what I have received in all, and
how I have disposed of it."
After a few days' farther conference with this ancient friend, he
brought me an account of the first six years' income of my planta-
tion, signed by my partner and the merchant trustees, being
always delivered in goods, viz., tobacco in roll, and sugar in
chests, besides rum, molasses, &c., which is the consequence of a
sugar-work: and I found by this account, that every year the
income considerably increased; but, as above, the disbursements
being large, the sum at first was small. However, the old man
let me see that he was debtor to me four hundred and seventy
moidores of gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen double
rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship, he having been ship-
wrecked coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years after my
leaving the place.
The good man then began to complain of his misfortunes, and
how he had been obliged to make use of my money to recover his
losses, and buy him a share in a new ship. "However, my old
friend," says he, "you shall not want a supply in your necessity;
and as soon as my son returns, you shall be fully satisfied." Upon
247
this, he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me one hundred and
sixty Portugal moidores in gold, and giving me the writings of his
title to the ship, which his son was gone to the Brazils in, of
which he was a quarter part owner, and his son another, he puts
them both into my hands for security of the rest
I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the
poor man to be able to bear this; and, remembering what he had
done for me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generously
he had used me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a
friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what
he had said to me; therefore first I asked him if his circumstances
admitted him to spare so much money at that time, and if it
would not straiten him? He told me he could not say but it
might straiten him a little; but, however, it was my money, and
I might want it more than he.
Everything the good man said was full of affection, and 1 could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke; in short, I took
one hundred of the moidores, and called for a pen and ink to
give him a receipt for them : then I returned him the rest, and told
him if ever I had possession of the plantation, I would return the
other to him also (as, indeed, I afterwards did); and that, as to
the bill of sail of his part in his son's ship, I would not take it by
any means, but that if I wanted the money, I found he was honest
enough to pay me; and, if I did not, but came to receive what he gave
me reason to expect, I would never have a penny more from him.
When this was past, the old man began to ask me if he should
put me on a method to make my claim to my plantation? I told
him I thought to go over to it myself. He said I might do so, if
I pleased, but that, if I did not, there were ways enough to secure
my right, and immediately to appropriate the profits to my use;
and as there were ships in the river of Lisbon just ready to go
away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a public register,
with this affidavit, affirming upon oath that I was alive, and that
I was the same person who took up the land for the planting the
said plantation at first This being regularly attested by a notary,
and a procuration affixed, he diiected me to send it, with a letter of
his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at the place, and then
proposed my staying with him till an account came of the retura
Never anything was more honourable than the proceedings upon
this procuration; for in less than seven months I received a large
ADVENTURES OF
packet from the survivors of my trustees, the merchants, on whose
account I went to sea, in which were the following particular
letters and papers enclosed :—
First, There was the account-current of the produce of my farm
or plantation, from the year when their fathers had balanced with my
old Portugal captain, being for six years: the balance appeared to be
one thousand one hundred and seventy-four moidores in my favour.
Secondly, There was the account of four years more, while they
kept the effects in their hands, before the government claimed the
administration, as being the effects of a person not to be found,
which they called civil death; and the balance of this, the value
of the plantation increasing, amounted to nineteen thousand four
hundred crusadoes, being about three thousand two hundred and
forty-one moidores.
Thirdly, There was the prior of the Augustine's account, who
had received the profits for above fourteen years; but not being
able to account for what was disposed to the hospital, very honestly
declared he had eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not dis-
tributed, which he acknowledged to my account: as to the king's
part, that refunded nothing.
There was also a letter of my partner's congratulating me very
affectionately upon my being alive, giving me an account how the
estate was improved, and what it produced a year: with a particular
of the number of squares or acres that it contained, how planted, how
many slaves there were upon it, and making two and twenty crosses
for blessings, told me he had said so many "Ave Marias " to thank
the blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me very passionately
to come over and take possession of my own; and in the meantime,
to give him orders to whom he should deliver my effects, if I did
not come myself; concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship,
and that of his family: and sent me, as a present, seven fine
leopards' skins; which he had, it seems, received from Africa, by
some other ship that he had sent thither, and who, it seems, had
made a better voyage than I. He sent me also five chests of
excellent sweetmeats, and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not
quite so large as moidores.
By the same fleet, my merchant trustees shipped me twelve
hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of tobacco, and the
rest of the whole account in gold
.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was
249
better than the beginning. It is impossible to express the flutterings
of my very heart, when I looked over these letters, and especially
when I found all my wealth about me; for as the Brazil ships come
all in fleets, the same ships which brought my letters brought my
goods, and the effects were safe in the river before the letters came
to my hand . In a word I turned pale, and grew sick; and had not
the old man run and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden sur-
prise of joy had overset nature, and I had died upon the spot Nay,
after that I continued very ill, and was so some hours, till, a physician
being sent for and something of the real cause of my illness being
known, he ordered me to be let blood, after which I had relief,
and grew well; but I verily believe, if it had not been eased by the
vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should have died
.
I was now master, all on a sudden, of above fifty thousand
pounds sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call
it, in the Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a-year, as sure as an
estate of lands in England; and, in a word, I was in a condition
which I scarce knew how to understand, or how to compose myself
for the enjoyment of. The first thing I did was to recompense
my original benefactor, my good old captain, who had been first
charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in the beginning, and
honest to me at the end . I showed him all that was sent to me;
I told him that next to the Providence of Heaven, which disposes
all things, it was owing to him; and that it now lay on me to
reward him, which I would do an hundredfold: so I first returned
to him the hundred moidores I had received of him; then I sent
for a notary, and caused him to draw up a general release or dis-
charge for the four hundred and seventy moidores which he had
acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and firmest manner pos-
sible. After which I caused a procuration to be drawn, empowering
him to be my receiver of the annual profits of my plantation, and
appointing my partner to account to him, and make the returns
by the usual fleets to him in my name; and a clause in the end,
being a grant of one hundred moidores a-year to him during his
life, out of the effects, and fifty moidores a year to his son after
him, for his life; and thus I requited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course next, and
what to do with the estate that Providence had thus put into my
hands; and, indeed, I had more care upon my head now than I
had in my silent state of life in the island, where I wanted nothing
25°
ADVENTURES OF
but what I had, and had nothing but what I wanted; whereas, I
had now a great charge upon me, and my business was how to secure it I had never a cave now to hide my money in, or a
place where it might lie without lock or key, till it grew mouldy
and tarnished before anybody would meddle with it; on the con-
trary, I knew not where to put it, or whom to trust with it. My
old patron, the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only
refuge I had
.
In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed to summon
me thither; but now I could not tell how to think of going thither
till I had settled my affairs, and left my effects in some safe hands
behind me. At first I thought of my old friend the widow, who I
knew was honest, and would be just to me; but then she was in
years, and but poor, and, for aught I knew, might be in debt: so
that, in a word, I had no way but to go back to England myself,
and take my effects with me.
It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this; and,
therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to his satis-
faction, who had been my former benefactor, so I began to think
of my poor widow, whose husband had been my first benefactor,
and she, while it was in her power, my faithful steward and instructor.
So the first thing I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon to write to his
correspondent in London, not only to pay a bill, but to go find her
out, and carry her in money a hundred pounds from me, and to
talk with her, and comfort her in her poverty, by telling her she
should, if I lived, have a further supply: at the same time I sent
my two sisters in the country a hundred pounds each, they being,
though not in want, yet not in very good circumstances—one
having been married and left a widow, and the other having a
husband not so kind to her as he should be.
But among all my relations or acquaintances, I could not yet
pitch upon one to whom I durst commit the gross of my stock, that
I might go away to the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me;
and this greatly perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have settled
myself there,—for I was, as it were, naturalised to the place; but
I had some little scruple in my mind about religion, which insen-
sibly drew me back . However, it was not religion that kept me
from going thither for the present; and as I had made no scruple of
being openly of the religion of the country all the while I was among
25*
them, so neither did I yet; only that, now and then, having of late
thought more of it than formerly, when I began to think of living and
dying among them, I began to regret my having professed myself a
Papist, and thought it might not be the best religion to die in.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept me from
going to the Brazils, but that really I did not know with whom to
leave my effects behind me: so I resolved, at last, to go to England
with them, where, if I arrived, I concluded I should make some
acquaintance, or find some relations that would be faithful to me;
and, accordingly, I prepared to go to England with all my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I first—the Brazil
fleet being just going away—resolved to give answers suitable to the
just and faithful account of things I had from thence; and, first, to
the prior of St Augustine I wrote a letter full of thanks for his just
dealings, and the offer of the eight hundred and seventy-two moi-
dores which were undisposed of, which I desired might be given,
five hundred to the monastery, and three hundred and seventy-two
to the poor, as the prior should direct; desiring the good padre's
prayers for me, and the like.
I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all the
acknowledgment that so much justice and honesty called for; as
for sending them any present, they were far above having any
occasion of it
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his industry in the
improving the plantation, and his integrity in increasing the stock
of the works; giving him instructions for his future government of
my part, according to the powers I had left with my old patron, to
whom I desired him to send whatever came due to me, till he should
hear from me more particularly; assuring him that it was my inten-
tion not only to come to him, but to settle myself there for the
remainder of my life. To this I added a very handsome present
of some Italian silks for his wife and two daughters, for such the
captain's son informed me he had; with two pieces of fine English
broadcloth, the best I could get in Lisbon, five pieces of black
baize, and some Flanders lace of a good value.
Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my
effects into good bills of exchange, my next difficulty was, which way
to go to England: I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and
yet I had a strange aversion to go to England by sea at that time;
and though I could give no reason for it, yet the difficulty increased
ADVENTURES OF
upon me so much, that, though I had once shipped my baggage
in order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but two
or three times.
It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this might
be one of the reasons; but let no man slight the strong impulses
of his own thoughts in cases of such moment: two of the ships
which I had singled out to go in,—I mean more particularly
singled out than any other, having put my things on board one of
them, and, in the other, agreed with the captain; I say, two of
these ship miscarried, viz., one was taken by the Algerines, and
the other was cast away on the Start, near Torbay, and all the
people drowned, except three; so that in either of those vessels I
had been made miserable, and in which most, it was hard to say.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to
whom I communicated everything, pressed me earnestly not to go
by sea, but either to go by land to the Groyne (Corunna), and cross
over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy
and safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover; or
to go up to Madrid, and so all the way by land through France.
In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going by sea at
all, except from Calais to Dover, that I resolved to travel all the
way by land; which, as I was not in haste, and did not value the
charge, was by much the pleasanter way: and to make it more so,
my old captain brought an English gentleman, the son of a
merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me; after
which we picked up two English merchants and two young
Portuguese gentlemen, the last going to Paris only; so that in all
there were six of us, and five servants,—the two merchants and
the two Portuguese contenting themselves with one servant be-
tween two, to save the charge. As for me, I got an English sailor
to travel with me as a servant, besides my man Friday, who was
too much a stranger to be capable of supplying the place of a
servant on the road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our company being
very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof
they did me the honour to call me captain, as well because I was
the oldest man, as because I had two servants, and, indeed, was
the original of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I shall
trouble you now with none of my land journals; but some adven-
253
turus that happened to us in this tedious and difficult journey I
must not omit
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to Spain,
were willing to stay some time to see the court of Spain, and to
see what was worth observing; but it being the latter part of the
summer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the
middle of October. But when we came to the edge of Navarre,
we were alarmed, at several towns on the way, with an account
that so much snow was fallen on the French side of the mountains,
that several travellers were obliged to come back to Pampeluna,
after having attempted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so, indeed;
and to me, that had been always used to a hot climate, and to
countries where I could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was
insufferable: nor, indeed, was it more painful than surprising, to
come but ten days before out of Old Castile, where the weather
was not only warm, but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind
from the Pyrenean mountains, so very keen, so severely cold, as
to be intolerable, and to endanger the benumbing and perishing
of our fingers and toes. Poor Friday was really frighted when he
saw the mountains all covered with snow, and felt cold weather,
which he had never seen or felt before in his life.
To mend the matter, when we came to Pampeluna, it continued
snowing with so much violence, and so long, that the people said
winter was come before its time; and the roads, which were
difficult before, were now quite impassable: for, in a word, the
snow lay in some places too thick for us to travel, and being not
hard frozen, as is the case in the northern countries, there was no
going without being in danger of being buried alive every step.
We stayed no less than twenty days at Pampeluna; when, seeing
the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it
was the severest winter all over Europe that had been known in
the memory of man, I proposed that we should all go away to
Fontarabia, and there take shipping for Bourdeaux, which was a
very little voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came in four French
gentlemen, who having been stopped on the French side of the
passes, as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who, tra-
versing the country near the head of Languedoc, had brought them
over the mountains by such ways that they were not much incom-
ADVENTURES OF
moded with the snow, and, where they met with snow in any quantity,
they said it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertake to carry
us the same way with no hazard from the snow, provided we were
armed sufficiently to protect ourselves from wild beasts; for, he
said, upon these great snows it was frequent for some wolves to
show themselves at the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous
for want of food, the ground being covered with snow. We told
him we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they
were, if he would insure us from a kind of two-legged wolves,
which, we were told, we were in most danger from, especially on
the French side of the mountains. He satisfied us there was no
danger of that kind in the way that we were to go; so we readily
agreed to follow him, as did also twelve other gentlemen, with
their servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had
attempted to go, and were obliged to come back again.
Accordingly, we all set out from Pampeluna, with our guide, on
the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead
of going forward, he came directly back with us on the same road
that we came from Madrid, above twenty miles, when, having
passed two rivers, and come into the plain country, we found our-
selves in a warm climate again, where the country was pleasant,
and no snow to be seen; but on a sudden turning to his left, he
approached the mountains another way, and though it is true the
hills and precipices looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours,
such meanders, and led us by such winding ways, we insensibly
passed the height of the mountains without being much encumbered
with the snow; and all on a sudden he showed us the pleasant
fruitful provinces of Languedoc and Gascoigne, all green and
flourishing, though, indeed, at a great distance, and we had some
rough way to pass yet
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one
whole day and a night so fast that we could not travel; but he
bade us be easy, we should soon be past it all . We found, indeed,
that we began to descend every day, and to come more north
than before; and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.
It was about two hours before night, when, our guide being
something before us and not just in sight, out rushed three
monstrous wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way
adjoining to a thick wood. Two of the wolves flew upon the
»
guide, and had he been half-a-mile before us, he had been
devoured, indeed, before we could have helped him: one of them
fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked the man with that
violence, that he had not time, or not presence of mind enough,
to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us most lustily.
My man Friday being next me, I bade him ride up, and see what
was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of the man, he
hallooed out as loud as the other, "O master! O master !" but,
like a bold fellow, rode up directly to the man, and with his pistol
shot the wolf that attacked him in the head
.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday; for
he, having been used to such creatures in his country, had no fear
upon him, but went close up to him and shot him, as above : where-
as, any other of us would have fired at a greater distance, and have
perhaps either missed the wolf, or endangered shooting the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than I, and,
indeed, it alarmed all our company, when, with the noise of
Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the dismallest howlings of
wolves, and the noise redoubled by the echo of the mountains,
that it was to us as if there had been a prodigious multitude of
them; and, perhaps, indeed, there was not such a few as that we
had no cause of apprehension.
However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other that had
fastened upon the horse left him immediately, and fled, having
happily fastened upon his head, where the bosses of the bridle
stuck in his teeth, so that he had not done him much hurt: the
man, indeed, was most hurt, for the raging creature had bit him
twice, once on the arm, and the other time a little above his
knee, and he was just as it were tumbling down by the disorder of the horse, when Friday came up and shot the wolf.
It is easy to suppose that, at the noise of Friday's pistol, we all
mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very
difficult, would give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon
as we came clear of the trees which blinded us before, we saw clearly
what had been the case, and how Friday had disengaged the poor
guide, though we did not presently discern what kind of creature
it was he had killed
.
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such a sur-
prising manner, as that which followed between Friday and the
bear, which gave us all (though at first we were surprised and
ADVENTURES OF
afraid for him) the greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear is
a heavy, clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does,
which is swift and light, so he has two particular qualities which
generally are the rule of his actions; first, as to men, who are not
his proper prey—I say not his proper prey, because, though I
can't say what excessive hunger might do, which was now their case,
the ground being all covered with snow, yet as to men, he does
not usually attempt them, unless they first attack him; on the
contrary, if you meet him in the woods, if you don't meddle with
him, he won't meddle with you: but then you must take care to be
very civil to him, and give him the road, for he is a very nice gentleman: he won't go a step out of his way for a prince—nay, if you are
really afraid, your best way is to look another way, and keep going
on, for sometimes, if you stop and stand still, and look steadfastly
at him, he takes it for an affront, and if you throw or toss anything
at him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as big as
your finger, he takes it for an affront, and sets all other business
aside to pursue his revenge, for he will have satisfaction in point of
honour, and this is his first quality: the next is, that if he be once
affronted, he will never leave you, night nor day, till he has his
revenge, but follow at a good round rate till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up
to him, he was helping him off his horse, for the man was both
hurt and frighted—and, indeed, the last more than the first—
when, on a sudden, we espied the bear come out of the wood, and
a vast monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw.
We were all a little surprised when we saw him; but when Friday
saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's coun-
tenance. "O! O! O!" says Friday, three times, pointing to
him; "O master! you give me te leave, me shakee te hand with
him; me makee you good laugh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased . "You fool," says
I, "he will eat you up." "Eatee me up! eatee me up!" says
Friday, twice over again; "me eatee him up; me makee you good
laugh. You all stay here, me show you good laugh." So down
he sits, and gets his boots off in a moment, and puts on a pair of
pumps (as we call the flat shoes they wear), which he had in his
pocket, gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun away
he flew, swift like the wind
.
The bear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with no-
*57
body, till Friday, coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear
could understand him, "Hark ye, hark ye," says Friday, "me
speakee wit you." We followed at a distance, for now being come
down on the Gascoigne side of the mountains, we were entered a
vast great forest, where the country was plain and pretty open,
though many trees in it scattered here and there.
Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came up with
him quickly, and takes up a great stone and throws at him, and
hit him just on the head, but did him no more harm than if he
had thrown it against a wall; but it answered Friday's end, for the
rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely to make the bear
follow him, and show us some laugh, as he called it As soon as
the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he turns about, and comes
after him, taking devilish long strides, and shuffling along at a
strange rate, so as would put a horse to a middling gallop: away
runs Friday, and takes his course as if he ran towards us for help;
so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver my
man—though I was angry at him heartily for bringing the bear
back upon us, when he was going about his own business another
way; and especially I was angry that he had turned the bear
upon us, and then run away, and I called out, "You dog, is this
your making us laugh? Come away, and take your horse, that we
may shoot the creature." He hears me, and cries out, "No shoot,
no shoot; stand still, and you get much laugh;" and as the
nimble creature ran two feet for the beast's one, he turned on a
sudden on one side of us, and seeing a great oak tree fit for his
purpose, he beckoned us to follow, and, doubling his pace, he gets
nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground at about
five or six yards from the bottom of the tree.
The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a distance:
the first thing he did, he stopped at the gun, smelt to it, but let it
lie, and up he scrambles into the tree, climbing like a cat, though
so monstrously heavy. I was amazed at the folly, as I thought it,
of my man, and could not for my life see anything to laugh at
yet, till, seeing the bear get up the tree, we all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the
small of a large limb of the tree, and the bear got about half way
to him. As soon as the bear got out to that part where the limb
of the tree was weaker, "Ha!" says he to us, "now you see me
teachee the bear dance;" so he falls a jumping and shaking the
R
*S8
ADVENTURES OF
bough, at which the bear began to totter, but stood still, and
began to look behind him, to see how he should get back; then,
indeed, we did laugh heartily. But Friday had not done with him
by a great deal: when he sees him stand still, he calls out to him
again, as if he had supposed the bear could speak English, "What,
you come no farther? pray you come farther;" so he left jumping
and shaking the bough, and the bear, just as if he had understood
what he said, did come a little farther; then he fell a jumping
again, and the bear stopped again.
We thought now was a good time to knock him on the head,
and called to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the bear;
but he cried out earnestly, "O pray! O pray! no shoot, me shoot by
and then;"—he would have said, by and by. However, to shorten
the story, Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that
we had laughing enough indeed, but still could not imagine what
the fellow would do; for first we thought he depended upon shaking
the bear off, and we found the bear was too cunning for that too, for
he would not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast
with his great broad claws and feet, so that we could not imagine
what would be the end of it, and where the jest would be at last
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for, seeing the bear
cling fast to the bough, and that he would not be persuaded to
come any farther, "Well, well," says Friday, "you no come farther,
me go, me go; you no come to me, me come to you," and upon
this, he goes out to the smallest end of the bough, where it would
bend with his weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding
down the bough, till he came near enough to jump down on his
feet, and away he runs to his gun, takes it up, and stands still.
"Well," said I to him, "Friday, what will you do now? Why
don't you shoot him?" "No shoot," says Friday, "no yet; me
shoot now me no kill j me stay, give you one more laugh." And,
indeed, so he did, as you will see presently: for when the bear saw
his enemy gone, he comes back from the bough where he stood,
but did it mighty leisurely, looking behind him at every step, and
coming backward till he got into the body of the tree; then, with
the same hinder end foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it
with his claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leisurely. At
this juncture, and just before he could set his hind feet on the
ground, Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the muzzle of his
piece into his ear, and shot him dead as a stone.
259
Then the rogue turned about, to see if we did not laugh; and
when he saw we were pleased, by our looks, he falls a-laughing
himself very loud . "So we kill bear in my country," says Friday.
"So you kill them ?" says I; "why, you have no guns." "No,"
says he, "no gun, but shoot great much long arrow."
This was a good diversion to us; but we were still in a wild
place, and our guide very much hurt, and what to do we hardly
knew: the howling of wolves ran much in my head; and, indeed,
except the noise I once heard on the shore of Africa, of which I
have said something already, I never heard anything that filled
me with so much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or else, as
Friday would have had us, we should certainly have taken the
skin of this monstrous creature off, which was worth saving; but
we had near three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, so
we left him, and went forward on our journey.
The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep
and dangerous as on the mountains; and the ravenous creatures,
as we heard afterwards, were come down into the forest and plain
country, pressed by hunger, to seek for food, and had done a great
deal of mischief in the villages, where they surprised the country
people, killed a great many of their sheep and horses, and some
people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, of which our guide told
us, if there were more wolves in the country we should find them
there; and this was a small plain surrounded with woods on
every side, and a long narrow defile, or lane, which we were to
pass to get through the wood, and then we should come to the
village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of sunset when we entered the first
wood, and a little after sunset when we came into the plain. We
met with nothing in the first wood, except that, in a little plain
within the wood which was not above two furlongs over, we saw
five great wolves cross the road, full speed, one after another, as
if they had been in chase of some prey, and had it in view; they
took no notice of us, and were gone out of sight in a few moments.
Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was but a faint-hearted
fellow, bid us keep in a ready posture, for he believed there were
more wolves a-coming.
We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us; but we saw
ADVENTURES OF
no more wolves till we came through that wood, which was near
half a league, and entered the plain. As soon as we came into
the plain, we had occasion enough to look about us: the first
object we met with was a dead horse, that is to say, a poor horse
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of them at
work,—we could not say eating of him, but picking of his bones
rather, for they had eaten up all the flesh before
.
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast; neither did
they take much notice of us. Friday would have let fly at them,
but I would not suffer him by any means; for I found we were
like to have more business upon our hands than we were aware
of. We were not gone half over the plain when we began to hear
the wolves howl on our left in a frightful manner, and presently
after we saw about a hundred coming on directly towards us, all
in a body, and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up by an experienced officer. I scarce knew in what
manner to receive them, but found to draw ourselves in a close
line was the only way: so we formed in a moment But that we
might not have too much interval, I ordered that only every other
man should fire, and that the others who had not fired should stand
ready to give them a second volley immediately, if they continued
to advance upon us; and then that those who had fired at first
should not pretend to load their fusils again, but stand ready every
one with a pistol, for we were all armed with a fusil and a pair of
pistols each man; so we were by this method able to fire six
volleys, half of us at a time. However, at present, we had no
necessity; for upon firing the first volley, the enemy made a full
stop, being terrified as well with the noise as with the fire; four
of them, being shot in the head, dropped; several others were
wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could see by the snow.
I found they stopped, but did not immediately retreat; whereupon,
remembering that I had been told that the fiercest creatures were
terrified at the voice of a man, I caused all our company to halloo
as loud as they could: and I found the notion was not altogether
mistaken; for, upon our shout, they began to retire, and turn
about I then ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear,
which put them to the gallop, and away they went to the woods.
This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again; and that we
might lose no time, we kept going: but we had but little more
than loaded our fusils, and put ourselves in readiness, when we
heard a terrible noise in the same wood, on our left, only that it
was farther onward, the same way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky,
which made it worse on our side; but the noise increasing, we
could easily perceive that it was the howling and yelling of those
hellish creatures; and on a sudden, we perceived two or three
troops of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one in
our front, so that we seemed to be surrounded with them: how-
ever, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our way forward, as
fast as we could make our horses go, which, the way being very
rough, was only a good hard trot In this manner we came in
view of the entrance of the wood, through which we were to pass,
at the farther side of the plain; but we were greatly surprised,
when, coming near the lane or pass, we saw a confused number of
wolves standing just at the entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the
noise of a gun; and, looking that way, out rushed a horse, with
a saddle and bridle on him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or
seventeen wolves after him, full speed; indeed, the horse had the
heels of them, but as we supposed that he could not hold it at
that rate, we doubted not but they would get up with him at
last,—and no question but they did
.
Here we had a most horrible sight; for riding up to the
entrance where the horse came out, we found the carcass of
another horse and of two men, devoured by the ravenous creatures.
One of them was no doubt the same whom we heard fire a gun,
for there lay a gun just by him fired off; but as to the man, his
head and upper part of his body were eaten up.
This filled us with horror, and we knew not what course to
take, but the creatures resolved us soon, for they gathered about us
presently, in hopes of prey; and I verily believe that there were
three hundred of them. It happened very much to our advantage,
that, at the entrance into the wood, but at a little way from it,
there lay some large timber trees, which had been cut down the
summer before, and I suppose lay there for carriage. I drew my
little troop in among these trees, and placing ourselves in a line
behind one long tree, I advised them all to alight, and keeping
that tree before us for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or
three fronts, enclosing our horses in the centre.
We did so, and it was well we did; for never was a more
»6a
ADVENTURES OF
furious charge than the creatures made upon us in this place.
They came on with a growling kind of noise, and mounted the
piece of timber, which, as I said, was our breastwork, as if they
were only rushing upon their prey; and this fury of theirs, it
seems, was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses
behind us, which was the prey they aimed at I ordered our
men to fire as before, every other man; and they took their aim
so sure, that they killed several of the wolves at the first volley:
but there was a necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came
on like devils, those behind pushing on those before.
When we had fired a second volley of fusils, we thought they
stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone off; but it
was but a moment, for others came forward again: so we fired
two volleys of pistols; and I believe in these four firings we
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many,—
yet they came on again.
I was loath to spend our shot too hastily; so I called my
servant,—not my man Friday, for he was better employed,—
for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable, he charged my fusil
and his own while we were engaged,—but as I said, I called my
other man, and, giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a
train all along the piece of timber, and let it be a large train. He
did so; and had just time to get away, when the wolves came up
to it, and some were got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged
pistol close to the powder, set it on fire, and those that were upon
the timber were scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell, or
rather jumped in among us, with the force and fright of the fire:
we despatched these in an instant, and the rest were so frighted
with the light, which the night, for it was now very near dark,
made more terrible, that they drew back a little. Upon which I
ordered our last pistols to be fired off in one volley, and after that
we gave a shout: upon this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied
immediately upon near twenty lame ones, which we found strug-
gling on the ground, and fell a-cutting them with our swords,
which answered our expectation; for the crying and howling
they made was better understood by their fellows, so that they all
fled and left us.
We had, first and last, killed about threescore of them; and
had it been daylight, we had killed many more. The field of
battle being thus cleared, we made forward again, for we had
263
still near a league to go. We heard the ravenous creatures howl
and yell in the woods, as we went, several times; and sometimes
we fancied we saw some of them, but the snow dazzling our eyes,
we were not certain. So in about an hour more we came to the
town where we were to lodge, which we found in a terrible fright,
and all in arms; for it seems that the night before, the wolves
and some bears had broke into that village, and put them in a
terrible fright, and they were obliged to keep guard night and
day, but especially in the night, to preserve their cattle, and,
indeed, their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled
so much with the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go no
farther; so we were obliged to take a new guide here, and go to
Tholouse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful pleasant
country, and no snow, no wolves, or anything like them; but
when we told our story at Tholouse, they told us it was nothing
but what was ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the
mountains, especially when the snow lay on the ground; but they
inquired much what kind of a guide we had gotten, that would
venture to bring us that way in such a severe season, and told us
it was very strange we were not all devoured . When we told
them how we placed ourselves, and the horses in the middle,
they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it was fifty to one but
we had been all destroyed, for it was the sight of the horses that
made the wolves so furious, seeing their prey, and that, at other
times, they are really afraid of a gun; but they, being excessive
hungry, and raging on that account, the eagerness to come at
the horses had made them senseless of danger,—and if we had
not, by the continued fire, and at last by the stratagem of the
train of powder, mastered them, it had been great odds but that
we had been torn to pieces: whereas, had we been content to
have sat still on horseback, and fired as horsemen, they would
not have taken the horses so much for their own, when men were
on their backs, as otherwise: and withal they told us, that, at last,
if we had stood altogether, and left our horses, they would have
been so eager to have devoured them, that we might have come
off safe, especially having our firearms in our hands, and being
so many in number.
For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my life; for see-
ing above three hundred devils come roaring and open-mouthed to
ADVENTURES OF
devour us, and having nothing to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave my-
self over for lost; and, as it was, I believe I shall never care to cross
those mountains again: I think I would much rather go a thousand
leagues by sea, though I was sure to meet with a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage
through France, nothing but what other travellers have given an
account of, with much more advantage than I can. I travelled
from Tholouse to Paris, and without any considerable stay came
to Calais, and landed safe at Dover, the 14th of January, after
having had a severe cold season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a little
time all my new discovered estate safe about me; the bills of
exchange which I brought with me having been very currently paid
.
My principal guide and privy counsellor was my good ancient
widow, who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought
no pains too much, or care too great, to employ for me; and I
trusted her so entirely with everything, that I was perfectly easy
as to the security of my effects: and, indeed, I was very happy
from the beginning, and now to the end, in the unspotted integrity
of this good gentlewoman.
And now I began to think of leaving my effects with this woman,
and setting out for Lisbon, and so to the Brazils. But now another
scruple came in the way, and that was religion; for as I had enter-
tained some doubts about the Roman religion, even while I was
abroad, especially in my state of solitude, so I knew there was no
going to the Brazils for me, much less going to settle there, unless
I resolved to embrace the Roman Catholic religion, without any
reserve;—unless, on the other hand, I resolved to be a sacrifice to
my principles, be a martyr for religion, and die in the Inquisition.
So I resolved to stay at home, and, if I could find means for it,
to dispose of my plantation.
To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who in
return gave me notice that he could easily dispose of it there; but
that if I thought fit to give him leave to offer it in my name to the
two merchants, the survivors of my trustees, who lived in the
Brazils, who must fully understand the value of it, who lived just
upon the spot, and whom I knew to be very rich, so that he believed
they would be fond of buying it, he did not doubt but I should
make four or five thousand pieces of eight the more of it
Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it to them, and
265
he did so; and in about eight months more, the ship being then
returned, he sent me an account that they had accepted the offer,
and had remitted thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a corre-
spondent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it In return, I signed the
instrument of sale in the form which they sent from Lisbon, and
sent it to my old man, who sent me the bills of exchange for thirty-
three thousand pieces of eight for the estate; reserving the pay-
ment of one hundred moidores a-year to him (the old man) during
his life, and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which
I had promised them, and which the plantation was to make good
as a rent-charge.
And thus I have given the first part of a life of fortune and adven-
ture, a life of Providence's chequer work, and of a variety which the
world will seldom be able to show the like of: beginning foolishly,
but closing much more happily than any part of it ever gave me
leave so much as to hope for.
Any one would think that in this state of complicated good
fortune, I was past running any more hazards, and so indeed I had
been, if other circumstances had concurred: but I was inured to
a wandering life, had no family, nor many relations, nor, however
rich, had I contracted much acquaintance; and though I had sold
my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep that country out
of my head, and had a great mind to be upon the wing again:
especially I could not resist the strong inclination I had to see my
island, and to know if the poor Spaniards were in being there;
and how the rogues I left there had used them.
My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me from it, and
so far prevailed with me, that almost for seven years she prevented
my running abroad, during which time I took my two nephews,
the children of one of my brothers, into my care: the eldest having
something of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a
settlement of some addition to his estate, after my decease; the
other I put out to a captain of a ship: and after five years, finding
him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I put him into a
good ship, and sent him to sea; and this young fellow afterwards
drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures myself.
In the meantime I in part settled myself here; for, first of all,
I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction,
—and had three children, two sons and one daughter.
Crusoe's reflections in England—He dreams of his island, and conceives a desire
to return to it, which his wife discovers—Resolves to divert his thoughts, and
begins farming in Bedfordshire—On the death of his wife he determines to
revisit his island, and sets sail in an Indiaman, which is to touch at the Brazils—
The vessel is driven by contrary winds on to the coast of Galway, which leads to
new adventures—Falls in with a French merchant vessel on fire, and delivers the
crew, who are carried to Newfoundland—Steers thence for the West Indies,
and falls in with a Bristol ship, the crew and passengers of which are famishing.
HAT homely proverb used on so many occasions in
England, viz., "That what is bred in the bone will
not go out of the flesh," was never more verified than
in the story of my life. Any one would think that,
after thirty-five years' affliction, and a variety of
unhappy circumstances, which few men, if any, ever went through
before, and after near seven years of peace and enjoyment in the
fulness of all things, grown old, and when, if ever, it might be allowed
me to have had experience of every state of middle life, and to know
which was most adapted to make a man completely happy,—I say,
after all this, any one would have thought that the native propensity
to rambling, which I gave an account of in my first setting out in
the world to have been so predominant in my thoughts, should be
worn out, the volatile part be fully evacuated, or at least condensed,
and I might, at sixty-one years of age, have been a little inclined to
stay at home, and have done venturing life and fortune any more. Nay, further, the common motive of foreign adventures was taken
away in me; for I had no fortune to make—I had nothing to seek:
if I had gained ten thousand pounds, I had been no richer, for I
had already sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave it to; and
that I had was visibly increasing, for, having no great family, I could
not spend the income of what I had, unless I would set up for an
expensive way of living, such as a great family, servants, equipage,

gaiety, and the like, which were things I had no notion of, or incli-
nation to: so that I had nothing indeed to do but to sit still, and
fully enjoy what I had got, and see it increase daily upon my hands.
Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least not
enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad again,
which hung about me like a chronic distemper; particularly,
the desire of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the
colony I left there, ran in my head continually. I dreamed of
it all night, and my imagination ran upon it all day: it was
uppermost in all my thoughts, and my fancy worked so steadily
and strongly upon it, that I talked of it in my sleep. In short,
nothing could remove it out of my mind: it even broke so vio-
lently into all my discourses, that it made my conversation tire-
some, for I could talk of nothing else; all my discourse ran into
it, even to impertinence, and I saw it myself.
I have often heard persons of good judgment say, that all the
stir people make in the world about ghosts and apparitions is
owing to the strength of imagination, and the powerful operation
of fancy in their minds,—that there is no such thing as a spirit
appearing, or a ghost walking, and the like: that people's poring
affectionately upon the past conversation of their deceased friends,
so realises it to them, that they are capable of fancying, upon
some extraordinary circumstances, that they see them, talk to
them, and are answered by them, when, in truth, there is nothing
but shadow and vapour in the thing, and they really know
nothing of the matter.
For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any
such things as real apparitions, spectres, or walking of people after
they are dead; or whether there is anything in the stories they
tell us of that kind, more than the product of vapours, sick
minds, and wandering fancies: but this I know, that my imagina-
tion worked up to such a height, and brought me into such
excess of vapours, or what else I may call it, that I actually sup-
posed myself oftentimes upon the spot, at my old castle behind
the trees—saw my old Spaniard, Friday's father, and the reprobate
sailors I left upon the island—nay, I fancied I talked with them,
and looked at them so steadily, though I was broad awake, as at
persons just before me; and this I did till I often frighted myself
with the images my fancy represented to me. One time, in my
sleep, I had the villany of the three pirate sailors so lively related
ADVENTURES OF
to me by the first Spaniard and Friday's father, that it was sur-
prising: they told me how they barbarously attempted to murder
all the Spaniards, and that they set fire to the provisions they
had laid up, on purpose to distress and starve them,—things that
I had never heard of, and that were yet all of them true in fact
But it was so warm in my imagination, and so realised to me,
that, to the hour I saw them, I could not be persuaded but that
it was, or would be, true: also how I resented it, when the
Spaniard complained to me; and how I brought them to justice,
tried them before me, and ordered them all three to be hanged
.
What there was really in this shall be seen in its place; for how-
ever I came to form such things in my dream, and what secret
converse of spirits injected it, yet there was, I say, very much of
it true. I own that this dream had nothing literally and speci-
fically true; but the general part was so true, the base and
villanous behaviour of these three hardened rogues was such, and
had been so much worse than all I can describe, that the dream
had too much similitude of the fact; and as I would afterwards
have punished them severely, so, if I had hanged them all, I had
been much in the right, and should have been justifiable both
by the laws of God and man.
But to return to my story. In this kind of temper I lived
some years; I had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant hours,
no agreeable diversion, but what had something or other of this
in it; so that my wife, who saw my mind so wholly bent upon it,
told me very seriously one night, that she believed there was
some secret powerful impulse of Providence upon me, which had
determined me to go thither again; and that she found nothing
hindered my going, but my being engaged to a wife and children.
She told me, that it was true she could not think of parting with
me; but as she was assured, that if she was dead it would be the
first thing I would do, so, as it seemed to her that the thing was
determined above, she would not be the only obstruction; for,
if I thought fit, and resolved to go here she found me very
intent upon her words, and that 1 looked very earnestly at her,
so that it a little disordered her, and she stopped. I asked her,
why she did not go on, and say out what she was going to say?
But I perceived that her heart was too full, and some tears stood
in her eyes. "Speak out, my dear," said I, "are you willing I
should go?" "No," says she, very affectionately, "I am far
269
from willing; but if you are resolved to go," says she, "and
rather than I would be the only hindrance, I will go with you:
for though I think it a preposterous thing for one of your years,
and in your condition, yet, if it must be," said she, again weeping,
"I won't leave you; for if it be of Heaven, you must do it;
there is no resisting it; and if Heaven makes it your duty to go,
He will make it also mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of
me, that I may not obstruct it."
This affectionate behaviour of my wife brought me a little out
of the vapours, and I began to consider what I was doing: I cor-
rected my wandering fancy, and began to argue with myself sedately
what business I had, after threescore years, and after such a life
of tedious sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy and
easy a manner,—I say, what business had I to rush into new
hazards, and put myself upon adventures fit only for youth and
poverty to run into?
With those thoughts, I considered my new engagement—that I
had a wife, one child born, and my wife then great with child of
another—that I had all the world could give me, and had no need
to seek hazards for gain—that I was declining in years, and ought
to think rather of leaving what I had gained than of seeking to
increase it—that, as to what my wife had said, of its being a secret
impulse from Heaven, and that it should be my duty to go, I had
no notion of that: so, after many of these cogitations, I struggled
with the power of my imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as I
believe people may always do in like cases, if they will; and, in a
word, I conquered it; composed myself with such arguments as
occurred to my thoughts, and which my present condition fur-
nished me plentifully with; and, particularly, as the most effectual
method, I resolved to divert myself with other things, and to
engage in some business that might effectually tie me up from any
more excursions of this kind; for I found the thing return upon
me chiefly when I was idle, had nothing to do, or anything of
moment immediately before me.
To this purpose I bought a little farm in the county of Bedford, and resolved to remove myself thither. I had a little convenient
house upon it, and the land about it I found was capable of great
improvement, and that it was many ways suited to my inclination,
which delighted in cultivating, managing, planting, and improving
of land; and, particularly, being an inland county, I was removed
ADVENTURES OF
from conversing among ships, sailors, and things relating to the
remote part of the world.
In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my family, bought
me ploughs, harrows, a cart, waggon, horses, cows, sheep, and
setting seriously to work, became in one half-year a mere country
gentleman. My thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my
servants, cultivating the ground, enclosing, planting, &c.; and I
lived, as I thought, the most agreeable life that nature was capable
of directing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes was capable
of being retreated to.
I farmed upon my own land—I had no rent to pay—was limited
by no articles—I could pull up or cut down as I pleased—what I
planted was for myself, and what I improved was for my family;
and, having thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not the
least discomfort in any part of my life as to this world . Now, I
thought, indeed, that I enjoyed the middle state of life, which my
father so earnestly recommended to me—a kind of heavenly life,
something like what is described by the poet upon the subject
of a country life :—
"Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pains, and youth no snare."
But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unforeseen
Providence unhinged me at once, and not only made a breach
upon me, inevitable and incurable, but drove me, by its conse-
quence, upon a deep relapse into the wandering disposition, which,
as I may say, being born in my very blood, soon recovered its
hold of me, and, like the returns of a violent distemper, came
on with an irresistible force upon me, so that nothing could
make any more impression upon me. This blow was the loss of
my wife.
It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my wife, to
give a character of her particular virtues, and make my court to
the sex by the flattery of a funeral sermon. She was, in a few words,
the stay of all my affairs, the centre of all my enterprises, the engine
that, by her prudence, reduced me to that happy compass I was
in, from the most extravagant and ruinous project that fluttered in
my head, as above, and did more to guide my rambling genius
than a mother's tears, a father's instructions, a friend's counsel, or
all my own reasoning powers could do. I was happy in listening
271
to her entreaties, and in being moved by her tears, and, to the last
degree, desolate and dislocated in the world, by the loss of her.
When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me; I
was as much a stranger in it in my thoughts as I was in the Brazils
when I went first on shore, and as much alone, except as to the
assistance of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither what
to do, or what not to do; I saw the world busy round me, one part
labouring for bread, and the other part squandering in vile excesses,
or empty pleasures equally miserable, because the end they pro-
posed still fled from them; for the men of pleasure every day sur-
feited of their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow and repentance,
and the men of labour spent their strength in daily strugglings for
bread to maintain the vital strength they laboured with; so living
in a daily circulation of sorrow—living but to work, and working but
to live, as if daily bread were the only end of a wearisome life,
and a wearisome life the only occasion of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the bland,
where I suffered no more corn to grow, because I did not want
it, and bred no more goats, because I had no more use for them
—where the money lay in the drawer till it grew mildewed, and
had scarce the favour to be looked upon in twenty years.
All these things, had I improved them as I ought to have
done, and as reason and religion had dictated to me, would have
taught me to search farther than human enjoyments for a full feli-
city, and that there was something which certainly was the reason
and end of life, superior to all these things, and which was either
to be possessed, or, at least, hoped for, on this side of the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone; I was like a ship without a
pilot, that could only run before the wind; my thoughts ran all
away again into the old affair—my head was quite turned with the
whimsies of foreign adventures; and all the pleasing innocent
amusements of my farm and my garden, my cattle and my family,
which before entirely possessed me, were nothing to me,—had no
relish, and were like music to one that has no ear, or food to one that
has no taste: in a word, I resolved to leave off housekeeping, let
my farm, and return to London; and in a few months after I did so.
When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as before; I
had no relish to the place, no employment in it, nothing to do
but to saunter about like an idle person, of whom it may be said,
he is perfectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one farthing
ADVENTURES OF
matter to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or alive. This
also was the thing which, of all circumstances of life, was the most
my aversion, who had been all my days used to an active life;
and I would often say to myself, "A state of idleness is the very
dregs of life : " and, indeed, I thought I was much more suitably
employed when I was twenty-six days making me a deal board
.
It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew,
whom, as I observed before, I had brought up to the sea, and had
made him commander of a ship, was come home from a short
voyage to Bilboa, being the first he had made. He came to me,
and told me, that some merchants of his acquaintance had been
proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the East Indies and
to China, as private traders. "And now, uncle," says he, "if
you will go to sea with me, I'll engage to land you upon your old
habitation in the island, for we are to touch at the Brazils."
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state, and of
the existence of an invisible world, than the concurrence of second
causes with the ideas of things which we form in our minds,
perfectly reserved, and not communicated to any in the world.
My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering
was returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in his
thoughts to say, when that very morning, before he came to me,
I had, in a great deal of confusion of thought, and revolving every
part of my circumstances in my mind, come to this resolution,
namely, that I would go to Lisbon and consult with my old sea-
captain; and so, if it was rational and practicable, I would go and
see the island again, and see what was become of my people
there. I had pleased myself also with the thoughts of peopling
the place, and carrying inhabitants from hence, getting a patent
for the possession, and I know not what; when, in the middle of
all this, in comes my nephew, as I have said, with his project of
carrying me thither in his wayto the East Indies.
I paused a while at his words, and looking steadily at him,
"What devil," said I, "sent you this unlucky errand?" My
nephew started, as if he had been frighted at first; but perceiving
I was not much displeased with the proposal, he recovered him-
self. "I hope it may not be an unlucky proposal, sir," says he;
"I daresay you would be pleased to see your new colony there,
where you once reigned with more felicity than most of your
brother monarchs in the world."
»73
In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to
say, with the prepossession I was under, and of which I have said
so much, that I told him in a few words, if he agreed with the
merchants, I would go with him; but I told him I would not
promise to go any farther than my own island . "Why, sir," says
he, "you don't want to be left there again, I hope?" "Why," said
I, "can you not take me up again in your return?" He told me,
it could not be possible that the merchants would allow him to
come that way with a loaden ship of such value, it being a month's
sail out of his way, and might be three or four: "besides, sir, if
I should miscarry," said he, "and not return at all, then you would
be just reduced to the condition you were in before."
This was very rational: but we both found out a remedy for it,
which was, to carry a framed sloop on board the ship, which, being
taken in pieces and shipped on board the ship, might, by the help
of some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, be set up
again in the island and finished, fit to go to sea in a few days.
I was not long resolving; for indeed the importunities of my
nephew joined in so effectually with my inclination, that nothing
could oppose me; on the other hand, my wife being dead, I had
nobody concerned themselves so much for me as to persuade me
one way or other, except my ancient good friend the widow, who
earnestly struggled with me to consider my years, my easy circum-
stances, and the needless hazard of a long voyage, and, above all,
my young children: but it was all to no purpose; I had an irre-
sistible desire to the voyage, and I told her I thought there was
something so uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind
for the voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I
should attempt to stay at home; after which she ceased her expos-
tulations, and joined with me, not only in making provision for my
voyage, but also in settling my family affairs in my absence, and
providing for the education of my children.
In order to this I made my will, and settled the estate I had in
such a manner for my children, and placed in such hands, that I
was perfectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done them,
whatever might befal me; and for their education, I left it wholly
to my widow, with a sufficient maintenance to herself for her care;
all which she richly deserved, for no mother could have taken more
care in their education, or understood it better: and as she lived
till I came home, I also lived to thank her for it
s
ADVENTURES OF
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January
1694-95, and I, with my man Friday, went on board in the Downs
the 8th, having, besides that sloop which I mentioned above, a very
considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my colony,
which, if I did not find in good condition, I resolved to leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to place
there as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there upon my own
account while I stayed, and either to leave them there, or carry them
forward, as they should appear willing; particularly, I carried two
carpenters, and a smith, and a very handy, ingenious fellow, who
was a cooper by trade, but was also a general mechanic; for he
was dexterous at making wheels and hand-mills to grind corn, was
a good turner, and a good pot-maker; he also made anything that
was proper to make of earth or of wood: in a word, we called him
our "Jack-of-all-trades."
With these I carried a tailor, who had offered himself to go
passenger to the East Indies with my nephew, but afterwards con-
sented to stay on our new plantation, and proved a most necessary
handy fellow as could be desired, in many other businesses besides
that of his trade; for, as I observed formerly, necessity arms us
for all employments.
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have not kept an account
of the particulars, consisted of a sufficient quantity of linen, and some
thin English stuffs for clothing the Spaniards that I expected to find
there, and enough of them as, by my calculation, might comfortably
supply them for seven years. If I remember right, the materials
which I carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats, shoes, stock-
ings, and all such things as they could want for wearing, amounted
to above two hundred pounds, including some beds, bedding, and
household stuff, particularly kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles,
pewter, brass, &c., besides, near a hundred pounds more in iron-
work, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every
necessary thing I could think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets and fusils, besides
some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes, three or
four tons of lead, and two pieces of brass cannon; and because I
knew not what time and what extremities I was providing for, I
carried a hundred barrels of powder, besides swords, cutlasses, and
the iron part of some pikes and halberts; so that, in short, we had
a large magazine of all sorts of stores; and I made my nephew
275
carry two small quarter-deck guns more than he wanted for his
ship, to leave behind if there was occasion,—that when they came
there we might build a fort, and man it against all sorts of enemies;
and indeed I at first thought that there would be need enough
of it all, and much more, if we hoped to maintain our possession
of the island, as shall be seen in the course of the story.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been used to
meet with: and therefore shall have the less occasion to interrupt
the reader, who, perhaps, may be impatient to hear how matters
went with my colony; yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and
bad weather, happened on this first setting out, which made the
voyage longer than I expected it at first; and I, who had never
made but one voyage, namely, my first voyage to Guinea, in which
I might be said to come back again as the voyage was first designed,
began to think the same ill fate still attended me,—that I was born
never to be contented with being on shore, and yet to be always
unfortunate at sea.
Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were
obliged to put in at Galway, in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound
two and thirty days; but we had this satisfaction with the disaster,
that provisions were here exceedingly cheap, and in the utmost
plenty; so that while we lay here we never touched the ship's
stores, but rather added to them. Here also I took several hogs,
and two cows with their calves, which I resolved, if I had a good
passage, to put on shore in my island, but we found occasion to
dispose otherwise of them.
We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very
fair gale of wind for some days; as I remember, it might be about
the 2oth of February, in the evening late, when the mate having
the watch, came into the round house, and told us he saw a flash
of fire, and heard a gun fired; and while he was telling us of it,
a boy came in, and told us the boatswain heard another. This
made us all run out upon the quarter-deck, where for a while we
heard nothing, but in a few minutes we saw a very great light, and
found that there was some very terrible fire at a distance. Imme-
diately we had recourse to our reckonings, in which we all agreed
that there could be no land that way in which the fire showed itself
—no, not for five hundred leagues, for it appeared at west-north-
west Upon this, we concluded it must be some ship on fire at
sea; and, as by our hearing the noise of the guns just before we
ADVENTURES OF
concluded it could not be far off, we stood directly towards it, and
were presently satisfied we should discover it, because the farther
we sailed the greater the light appeared, though the weather being
hazy, we could not perceive anything but the light for a while.
In about half an hour's sailing, the wind being fair for us, though
not much of it, and the weather clearing up a little, we could plainly
discern it was a great ship on fire in the middle of the sea.
I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all
acquainted with the persons engaged in it; I presently recollected
my former circumstances, in what condition I was in when taken
up by the Portuguese captain; and how much more deplorable
the circumstances of the poor cteatures belonging to this ship must
be if they had no other ship in company with them: upon this, I
immediately ordered that five guns should be fired, one soon after
another, that, if possible, we might give notice to them that there
was help for them at hand, and that they might endeavour to save
themselves in their boat; for though we could see the flame in the
ship, yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning ship
drove, waiting for daylight; when on a sudden, to our great terror,
though we had reason to expect it, the ship blew up in the air, and
immediately sunk. This was terrible, and indeed an afflicting sight,
for the sake of the poor men, who, I concluded, must be either all
destroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their boats in
the middle of the ocean, which at present, by reason it was dark, I
could not see: however, to direct them as well as I could, I caused
lights to be hung out in all the parts of the ship where we could,
and which we had lanterns for, and kept firing guns all the night
long: letting them know by this that there was a ship not far off.
About eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's boats
by the help of our perspective glasses; and found there were two
of them, both thronged with people, and deep in the water: we
perceived they rowed, the wind being against them—that they saw
our ship, and did the utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we saw
them, and hung a waft out, as a signal for them to come on
board; and then made more sail, standing directly to them. In
a little more than half an hour we came up with them, and, in a
word, took them all in, being no less than sixty-four men, women,
and children; for there were a great many passengers.
277
Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant ship, of
three hundred tons, homeward bound from Quebec, in the river
of Canada. The master gave us a long account of the distress of
his ship, how the fire began in the steerage by the negligence of
the steersman; but, on his crying out for help, was, as everybody
thought, entirely got out: but they soon found that some of the
sparks of the first fire had gotten into some part of the ship, so
difficult to come at, that they could not effectually quench it; and
afterwards getting in between the timbers, and within the ceiling
of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and mastered all the skill
and all the application they were able to exert
They had no more to do then but to get into their boats,
which, to their great comfort, were pretty large; being their long-
boat, and a great shallop, besides a small skiff, which was of no
great service to them, other than to get some fresh water and
provisions into her, after they had secured themselves from the
fire. They had indeed small hope of their lives by getting into
these boats at that distance from any land; only, as they said
well, that they were escaped from the fire, and had a possibility
that some ship might happen to be at sea, and might take them in.
They had sails, oars, and a compass; and were preparing to make
the best of their way to Newfoundland, the wind blowing pretty
fair, for it blew an easy at south-east-by-east They had as much
provisions and water as, with sparing it so as to be next door to
starving, might support them about twelve days; in which, if they
had no bad weather, and no contrary winds, the captain said he
hoped he might get to the banks of Newfoundland, and might
perhaps take some fish to sustain them till they might go on shore.
But there were so many chances against them in all these cases—
such as storms to overset and founder them, rains and cold to
benumb and perish their limbs, contrary winds to keep them out
and starve them—that it must have been next to miraculous if
they had escaped.
In the midst of their consultations, every one being hopeless,
and ready to despair, the captain, with tears in his eyes, told me,
they were on a sudden surprised with the joy of hearing a gun fire,
and after that four more; these were the five guns which I caused
to be fired at first seeing the light: this revived their hearts, and
gave them the notice which, as above, I designed it should,
namely, that there was a ship at hand for their help.
a78
ADVENTURES OF
It was upon the hearing these guns, that they took down their
masts and sails; and the sound coming from windward, they
resolved to lie by till morning. Some time after this, hearing no
more guns, they fired three muskets, one a considerable while
after another; but these, the wind being contrary, we never heard
.
Some time after that again, they were still more agreeably sur-
prised with seeing our lights, and hearing our guns, which, as I
have said, I caused to be fired all the rest of the night: this set
them to work with their oars to keep their boats ahead, at least
that we might the sooner come up with them; and at last, to their
inexpressible joy, they found we saw them.
It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the
strange ecstasies, the variety of postures, which these poor delivered
people ran into, to express the joy of their souls at so unexpected
a deliverance. Grief and fear are easily described—sighs, tears,
groans, and a very few motions of head and hands make up the
sum of its variety: but an excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a
thousand extravagances in it; there were some in tears, some
raging and tearing themselves, as if they had been in the greatest
agonies of sorrow; some stark raving and downright lunatic;
some ran about the ship stamping with their feet, others wringing
their hands; some were dancing, several singing, some laughing,
more crying; many quite dumb, not able to speak a word; others
sick and vomiting, several swooning, and ready to faint; and a
few were crossing themselves and giving God thanks.
I would not wrong them neither—there might be many that
were thankful afterward; but the passion was too strong for them
at first, and they were not able to master it—they were thrown
into ecstasies and a kind of frenzy, and so there were but a very
few who were composed and serious in their joy.
Perhaps also the case may have some addition to it, from the
particular circumstance of the nation they belonged to—I mean
the French, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile, more
passionate, and more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid, than
of other nations. I am not a philosopher to determine the cause,
but nothing I had ever seen before came up to it; the ecstasies
poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when he found his father
in the boat, came the nearest to it; and the surprise of the master
and his two companions, whom I delivered from the villains that
set them on shore on the island, came a little way towards it; but
279
nothing was to compare to this, either that I saw in Friday, or
anywhere else in my life.
It is further observable, that these extravagances did not show
themselves in that different manner I have mentioned, in different
persons only; but all the variety would appear in a short succes-
sion of moments, in one and the same person. A man that we
saw this minute dumb, and, as it were, stupid and confounded,
should the next minute be dancing and hallooing like an antic;
and the next moment a-tearing his hair, or pulling his clothes to
pieces, and stamping them under his feet like a madman; a few
minutes after that, we should have him fall into tears, then sick,
then swooning; and, had not immediate help been had, would in
a few moments more have been dead: and thus it was, not with
one or two, or ten, or twenty, but with the greatest part of them;
and, if I remember right, our surgeon was obliged to let above
thirty of them blood.
There were two priests among them, one an old man and the
other a young man; and that which was strangest was, that the
oldest man was the worst .
As soon as he set his foot on board our ship, and saw himself
safe, he dropped down stone dead to all appearance—not the
least sign of life could be perceived in him. Our surgeon
immediately applied proper remedies to recover him, and was the
only man in the ship that believed he was not dead; and at
length he opened a vein in his arm, having first chafed and rubbed
the part, so as to warm it as much as possible: upon this, the
blood, which only dropped at first, flowed something freely: in
three minutes after the man opened his eyes; and about a
quarter of an hour after that, he spoke, grew better, and in a little
time quite well After the blood was stopped, he walked about,
told us he was perfectly well, took a dram of cordial which the
surgeon gave him, and was, what we called, come to himself. About a quarter of an hour after this they came running into the
cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a Frenchwoman that had
fainted, and told him the priest was gone stark mad. It seems
he had begun to revolve the change of his circumstances in his
mind, and this put him into an ecstasy of joy; his spirits whirled
about faster than the vessels could convey them; the blood grew
hot and feverish, and the man was as fit for Bedlam as any
creature that ever was in it: the surgeon would not bleed him
ADVENTURES OF
again in that condition, but gave him something to doze and put
him to sleep, which, after some time, operated upon him, and he
waked next morning perfectly composed and well
.
The younger priest behaved himself with great command of his
passion, and was really an example of a serious, well-governed
mind. At his first coming on board the ship, he threw himself
flat on his face, prostrating himself in thankfulness for his deliver-
ance,—in which I unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him,
really thinking he had been in a swoon: but he spoke calmly,
thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his deliverance,
begged me to leave him a few moments, and that, next to his
Maker, he would give me thanks also.
I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left him,
but kept others from interrupting him also; he continued in that
posture about three minutes, or a little more, after I left him, then
came to me, as he had said he would, and with a great deal of
seriousness and affection, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me
that had, under God, given him and so many miserable creatures,
their lives. I told him I had no room to move him to thank God
for it rather than me; for I had seen that he had done that
already: but I added, that it was nothing but what reason and
humanity dictated to all men, and that we had as much reason
as he to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so far as to make
us the instruments of His mercy to many of His creatures.
After this, the young priest applied himself to his country folks
28o
reasoned with them, and did his utmost to keep them within the
exercise of their reason; and with some he had success, though
others were, for a time, out of all government of themselves.
I cannot help committing this to writing, and perhaps it may be
useful to those into whose hands it may fall, in the guiding them-
selves in all the extravagances of their passions; for if an excess
of joy can carry men out to such a length beyond the reach of their
reason, what will not the extravagances of anger, rage, and a
provoked mind carry us to? And, indeed, here I saw reason for
keeping an exceeding watch over our passions of every kind, as
well those of joy and satisfaction, as those of sorrow and anger.
We were sometimes disordered by these extravagances among
our new guests for the first day; but when they had been retired,
lodgings provided for them all as well as our ship would allow,
281
and they had slept heartily, as most of them did, being fatigued
and frighted, they were quite another sort of people the next day.
Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the
kindness shown them, was wanting; the French, it is known, are
naturally apt enough to exceed that way. The captain and one
of the priests came to me the next day, and desiring to speak
with me and my nephew, the commander, began to consult with
us what should be done with them; and, first, they told us, that as
we had saved their lives, so all they had was little enough for a
return to us for the kindness received . The captain said they had
saved some money, and some things of value in their boats, catched
hastily out of the flames; and if we would accept of it, they were
ordered to make an offer of it all to us; they only desired to be set
on shore somewhere in our way, where, if possible, they might get
a passage to France.
My nephew was for accepting their money at first word, and to
consider what to do with them afterwards, but I overruled him in
that part: for I knew what it was to be set on shore in a strange
country; and if the Portuguese captain that took me up at sea had
served me so, and took all that I had for my deliverance, I must
have starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I had
been at Barbary, the being sold to a Mahometan only excepted;
and perhaps a Portuguese is not a much better master than a Turk,
if not, in some cases, a much worse.
I therefore told the French captain that we had taken them
up in their distress, it was true; but that it was our duty to do
so, as we were fellow-creatures, and as we would desire to be so
delivered, if we were in the like or any other extremity; that we
had done nothing for them but what we believed they would have
done for us, if we had been in their case, and they in ours; but
that we took them up to serve them, not to plunder them; and
that it would be a most barbarous thing to take that little from
them which they had saved out of the fire, and then set them
on shore and leave them; that this would be first to save them
from death, and then kill them ourselves—save them from drown-
ing, and then abandon them to starving: and therefore I would
not let the least thing be taken from them. As to setting them
on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an exceeding difficulty to
us, for that the ship was bound to the East Indies; and though
we were driven out of our course to the westward a very great way
ADVENTURES OF
which perhaps was directed by Heaven on purpose for their deliver-
ance, yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our voyage
on this particular account; nor could my nephew, the captain,
answer it to the freighters, with whom he was under charter-party
to pursue his voyage by way of Brazil; and all I knew he could
do for them was, to put ourselves in the way of meeting with
other ships homeward bound from the West Indies, and get
them passage, if possible, to England or France.
The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they
could not but be very thankful for it; but they were in a great con-
sternation, especially the passengers, at the notion of being carried
away to the East Indies: they then entreated me, that seeing I
was driven so far to the westward before I met with them, I
would at least keep on the same course to the banks of Newfound-
land, where it was possible I might meet with some ship or sloop
that they might hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence
they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and
therefore I inclined to agree to it; for indeed I considered that to
carry this whole company to the East Indies would not only be an
intolerable severity to the poor people, but would be ruining our
whole voyage, by devouring all our provisions; so I thought it no
breach of charter-party, but what an unforeseen accident made
absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one could say we
were to blame: for the laws of God and nature would have
forbid that we should refuse to take up two boats full of people in
such a distressed condition; and the nature of the thing, as well
respecting ourselves as the poor people, obliged us to see them on
shore somewhere or other, for their deliverance. So I consented
that we would carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather
would permit; and, if not, that I would carry them to Martinico,
in the West Indies.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good;
and as it had blowed continually in the points between north-east
and south-east a long time, we missed several opportunities of
sending them to France; for we met several ships bound to Europe,
whereof two were French, from St Christopher's: but they had
been so long beating up against the wind, that they durst take in
no passengers for fear of wanting provisions for the voyage, as well
for themselves as for those they should take in; so we were obliged
283
to go on. It was about a week after this, that we made the banks
of Newfoundland, where, to shorten my story, we put all our
French people on board a bark, which they hired at sea there, to
put them on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if they
could get provisions to victual themselves with. When I say all
the French went on shore, I should remember that the young
priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies,
desired to go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the
coast of Coromandel: I readily agreed to that, for I wonderfully
liked the man, and had very good reason, as will appear after-
wards; also four of the seamen entered themselves in our ship,
and proved very useful fellows.
From hence we directed our course for the West Indies, steering
away south and south-by-east, for about twenty days together, some-
times little or no wind at all, when we met another subject for our
humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minutes north,
and the igth day of March, 1694-95, when we espied a sail, our course south-east-and-by-south. We soon perceived it was a large
vessel, and that she bore up to us; but could not at first know
what to make of her, till, after coming a little nearer, we found she
had lost her main-topmast, foremast, and bowsprit, and presently
she fires a gun as a signal of distress. The weather was pretty
good, wind at north-north-west, a fresh gale, and we soon came
to speak with her.
We found her a ship of Bristol bound home from Barbadoes,
but had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few days before
she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while the captain and
chief mate were both gone on shore; so that, besides the terror of
the storm, they were but in an indifferent case for good artists to
bring the ship home. They had been already nine weeks at sea,
and had met with another terrible storm after the hurricane was
over, which had blown them quite out of their knowledge to the
westward, and in which they had lost their masts, as above: they
told us they expected to have seen the Bahama Islands, but were
then driven away again to the south-east by a strong gale of wind
at north-north-west, the same that blew now, and having no sails
to work the ship with, but a main-course and a kind of square sail
upon a jury-foremast, which they had set up, they could not lie near
the wind, but were endeavouring to stand away for the Canaries.
ADVENTURES OF
But that which was worst of all, was, that they were almost starved
for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone;
their bread and flesh was quite gone, they had not an ounce left
in the ship, and had had none for eleven days: the only relief they
had was, their water was not all spent, and they had about half a
barrel of flour left; they had sugar enough; some succades, or
sweatmeats, they had at first, but they were devoured; and they
had seven casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maidservant on board,
who were going passengers, and, thinking the ship was ready to
sail, unhappily came on board the evening before the hurricane
began: and, having no provisions of their own left, they were in a
more deplorable condition than the rest; for the seamen being
reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, had no compas-
sion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers; and they were
indeed in a condition that their misery is very hard to describe.
I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had not led
me, the weather being fair, and the wind abated, to go on board
the ship: the second mate, who upon this occasion commanded
the ship, had been on board our ship; and he told me, indeed,
that they had three passengers in the great cabin, and that they
were in a deplorable condition. "Nay," says he, "I believe they
are dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above two days;
and I was afraid to inquire after them," said he, "for I had nothing
to relieve them with."
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we
could spare; and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with my
nephew, that I would have victualled them, though we had gone
away to Virginia, or any part of the coast of America, to have sup-
plied ourselves; but there was no necessity for that
But now they were in a new danger, for they were afraid of eating
too much, even of that little we gave them. The mate, or com-
mander, brought six men with him in his boat, but these poor
wretches looked like skeletons, and were so weak they could hardly
sit to their oars; the mate himself was very ill, and half-starved,
for he declared he had reserved nothing from the men, and went
share and share alike with them in every bit they ate.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him imme-
diately; and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began to
be sick and out of order: so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon
285
mixed him up something with some broth, which he said would
be to him both food and physic, and after he had taken it he grew
better. In the meantime, I forgot not the men—I ordered victuals
to be given them, and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate
it: they were so exceedingly hungry that they were in a manner
ravenous, and had no command of themselves; and two of them
ate with so much greediness, that they were in danger of their
lives the next morning.
The sight of these people's distress was very moving to me, and
brought to mind what I had a terrible prospect of at my first
coming on shore in my island, where I had not the least mouth-
ful of food, or any hopes of procuring it,—besides the hourly
apprehension I had of being made the food of other creatures.
But all the while the mate was thus relating to me the miserable
condition of the ship's company, I could not put out of my thought
the story he had told me of the three poor creatures in the great
cabin—namely, the mother, her son, and the maidservant, whom
he had heard nothing of for two or three days, and whom he
seemed to confess they had wholly neglected, their own extremities
being so great; by which I understood that they had really given them no food at all, and that therefore they must be perished, and
be all lying dead perhaps on the floor or deck of the cabin.
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on
board with his men to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starv-
ing crew that were left on board, but ordered my own boat to go
on board the ship, and, with my mate and twelve men, to carry
them a sack of bread and four or five pieces of beef to boil . Our
surgeon charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while
they stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent the
men's taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it
was well boiled, and then to give every man but a little at a time;
and by this caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise have killed themselves with that very food that was given them on
purpose to save their lives.
At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great
cabin, and see what condition the poor passengers were in, and,
if they were alive, to comfort them and give them what refresh-
ment was proper; and the surgeon gave a large pitcher with some
of the prepared broth which he had given the mate that was on
board, and which he did not question would restore them gradually.
ADVENTURES OF
I was not satisfied with this; but, as I said above, having a
great mind to see the scene of misery, which I knew the ship
itself would present me with in a more lively manner than I could
have it by report, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called
him, with me, and went myself a little after in their boat
I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult to get the
victuals out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate observed
his order, and kept a good guard at the cook-room door, and the
men he placed there, after using all possible persuasion to have
patience, kept them off by force: however, he caused some biscuit
cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened them with the liquor
of the meat, which they call brewis, and gave every one one to
stay their stomachs, and told them it was for their own safety that
he was obliged to give them but a little at a time. But it was all
in vain; and had not I come on board, and their own commander
and officers with me, and with good words, and some threats also
of giving them no more, I believe they would have broken into
the cook-room by force, and torn the meat out of the furnace—
for words indeed are of a very small force to a hungry belly.
However, we pacified them, and fed them gradually and cautiously
for the first time, and the next time gave them more, and at last
filled their bellies, and the men did well enough.
But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of
another nature, and far beyond the rest: for as, first, the ship's
company had so little for themselves, it was but too true that they
had at first kept them very low, and at last totally neglected them;
so that, for six or seven days, it might be said, they had really
had no food at all, and, for several days before, very little.
The poor mother, who, as the first mate reported, was a woman
of good sense and good breeding, had spared all she could get so
affectionately for her son, that at last she entirely sank under it;
and when the mate of our ship went in, she sat upon the floor or
deck, with her back up against the sides, between two chairs
which were lashed fast, and her head sunk in between her
shoulders, like a corpse, though not quite dead . My mate said all
he could to revive and encourage her, and, with a spoon, put some
broth into her mouth: she opened her lips, and lifted up one hand,
but could not speak; yet she understood what he said, and made
signs to him, intimating that it was too late for her, but pointed to
her child, as if she would have said they should take care of him.
However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved with the sight,
endeavoured to get some of the broth into her mouth; and, as he
said, got two or three spoonfuls down, though I question whether
he could be sure of it or not; but it was too late, and she died
the same night
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most affection-
ate mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay in a cabin bed as
one stretched out, with hardly any life left in him: he had a piece
of an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it How-
ever, being young, and having more strength than his mother, the
mate got something down his throat, and he began sensibly to
revive, though, by giving him some time after but two or three
spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid; she lay all along upon the
deck hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen down
with apoplexy, and struggled for life: her limbs were distorted, one
of her hands was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she griped
it so hard that we could not easily make her let it go; her other
arm lay over her head, and her feet lay both together, set fast
against the frame of the cabin table: in short, she lay just like one
in the last agonies of death, and yet she was alive too.
The poor creature was not only starved with hunger, and terrified
with the thoughts of death, but, as the men told us afterwards, was
broken-hearted for her mistress, whom she saw dying two or three
days before, and whom she loved most tenderly.
We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for, when oui
surgeon, who was a man of very great knowledge and experience,
and, with great application, recovered her as to life, he had her
upon his hand as to her senses: for she was little less than dis-
tracted for a considerable time after, as shall appear presently.
Whoever shall read these memorandums, must be desired to
consider that visits at sea are not like a journey into the country,
where sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a place.
Our business was to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not lie
by for them; and though they were willing to steer the same course
with us for some days, yet we could carry no sail to keep pace with
a ship that had no masts. However, as their captain begged of us
to help him to set up a main-topmast, and a kind of topmast to his
jury-foremast, we did, as it were, lie by him for three or four days,
and then, having given him five barrels of beef and pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas, flour, and what other
things we could spare, and taking three casks of sugar, and some
rum, and some pieces of eight of them for satisfaction, we left them,
taking on board with us, at their own earnest request, the youth,
and the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a pretty, well-
bred, modest, and sensible youth,—greatly dejected with the loss
of his mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father but a few months
before at Barbadoes. He begged of the surgeon to speak to me
to take him out of the ship, for he said the cruel fellows had
murdered his mother: and, indeed, so they had, that is to say,
passively; for they might have spared a small sustenance to the
poor helpless widow, that might have preserved her life, though it
had been just to keep her alive. But hunger knows no friend,
no relation, no justice, no right, and therefore is remorseless, and
capable of no compassion.
The surgeon told him how far we were going, and how it would
carry him away from all his friends, and put him, perhaps, in as
bad circumstances almost as we found them—that is to say, starv-
ing in the world. He said it mattered not whither he went, if he
was but delivered from the terrible crew that he was among—that
the captain (by which he meant me, for he could know nothing of
my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure would not hurt
him: and, as for the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself, she
would be very thankful for it, let us carry them whither we would.
The surgeon represented the case so affectionately to me, that I
yielded, and we took them both on board, with all their goods,
except eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could not be removed or
come at; and as the youth had a bill of lading for them, I made
his commander sign a writing obliging him to go, as soon as he
came to Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the
youth said he was related, and to deliver a letter which I wrote to
him, and all the goods he had belonging to the deceased widow,—
which, I suppose, was not done, for I could never learn that the
ship came to Bristol, but was, as is most probable, lost at sea, being
in so disabled a condition, and so far from any land, that I am of
opinion the first storm she met with afterwards she might founder
in the sea; for she was leaky, and had damage in her hold when
I met with her.
Crusoe arrives at his island, which he finds with some difficulty, having discovered, in
his search for it, that that which he previously supposed to be a continent, was,
in reality, a group of islands—Friday is very joyous upon seeing the old place—
The first person Crusoe meets is the Spaniard whose life he saved—Friday
meets with his father - Crusoe discovers that the English sailors he left behind
have behaved badly—The history of the island during his absence.

WAS now in the latitude of nineteen degrees thirty-
two minutes, and had hitherto had a tolerable voyage
as to weather, though at first the winds had been
contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the little
incidents of wind, weather, currents, &c, on the rest of our voyage; but, shortening my story for the sake of what
is to follow, shall observe that I came to my old habitation, the
island, on the loth of April 1695. It was with no small difficulty
that I found the place: for as I came to it and went from it before
on the south and east side of the island, as coming from the Brazils,
so now, coming in between the main and the island, and having
no chart for the coast, nor any landmark, I did not know it when
I saw it, or know whether I saw it or not
We beat about a great while, and went on shore on several
islands in the mouth of the great river Oroonoque, but none for
my purpose: only this I learnt by my coasting the shore, that I
was under one great mistake before, namely, that the continent
which I thought I saw from the island I lived in, was really no
continent, but a long island, or rather a ridge of islands, reaching
from one to the other side of the extended mouth of that great
river; and that the savages who came to my island were not
properly those which we call Caribbees, but islanders, and other
barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited something nearer to
our side than the rest.
T
In short, I visited several of the islands to no purpose: some I
found were inhabited, and some were not. On one of them I found
some Spaniards, and thought they had lived there; but, speaking
with them, I found they had a sloop lay in a small creek hard by,
and that they came thither to make salt, and catch some pearl
mussels, if they could: but they belonged to the Isle de Trinidad,
which lay farther north, in the latitude of ten and eleven degrees.
Thus coasting from'one island to another, sometimes with the
ship, sometimes with the Frenchman's shallop (which we had
found a convenient boat, and therefore kept her with their very
good will), at length I came fair on the south side of my island,
and I presently knew the very countenance of the place: so I
brought the ship safe to an anchor broadside with the little creek,
where was my old habitation.
As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked him
if he knew where he was? He looked about a little, and presently
clapping his hands, cried, "Oh yes! Oh, there! Oh yes! Oh,
there!" pointing to our old habitation, and fell a-dancing and
capering like a mad fellow; and I had much ado to keep him
from jumping into the sea, to swim ashore to the place.
"Well, Friday," said I, "do you think we shall find anybody
here or no? and what do you think, shall we see your father?"
The fellow stood mute as a stock a good while; but when I
named his father, the poor affectionate creature looked dejected,
and I could see the tears run down his face very plentifully.
"What is the matter, Friday?" said I; "are you troubled because
you may see your father ?"—" No, no!" says he, shaking his
head, "no see him more, no ever more see again !"—" Why so,
Friday?" said I, "how do you know that ?"—" Oh no! oh no!"
says Friday, "he long ago die, long ago, he much old man."—
"Well, well," said I, "Friday, you don't know; but shall we see
anybody else then?" The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than
I, and he points just to the hill above my old house; and though
we lay half a league off, he cries out, "Me see! me see! yes, yes;
me see much man there, and there, and there." I looked, but I
could see nobody—no, not with a perspective glass; which was,
I suppose, because I could not hit the place; for the fellow was
right, as I found upon inquiry the next day, and there were five
or six men all together stood to look at the ship, not knowing
what to think of us.
291
As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused the
English ancient to be spread, and fired three guns to give them
notice we were friends; and about half a quarter of an hour after
we perceived a smoke rise from the side of the creek: so I
immediately ordered a boat out, taking Friday with me, and
hanging out a white flag, or a flag of truce, I went directly on
shore, taking with me the young friar I mentioned, to whom I
had told the whole story of my living there, and the manner of it,
and every particular both of myself and those that I left there,
and who was on that account extremely desirous to go with me.
We had besides about sixteen men very well armed, if we had
found any new guest there which we did not know of; but we
had no need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood near high water,
we rowed directly into the creek; and the first man I fixed my
eye upon was the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and whom I
knew by his face perfectly well: as to his habit I shall describe
it afterwards. I ordered nobody to go on shore at first but my-
self: but there was no keeping Friday in the boat, for the affec-
tionate creature had spied his father at a distance, a good way
off the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of him; and if
they had not let him go on shore, he would have jumped into
the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but he flew away to his
father like an arrow out of a bow. It would have made any man
shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to have seen the first
transports of this poor fellow's joy when he came to his father—
how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked his face, took him up
in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay down by him;
then stood and looked at him, as any one would look at a strange
picture, for a quarter of an hour together; then lay down upon
the ground, and stroked his legs, and kissed them, and then got
up again, and stared at him: one would have thought the fellow
bewitched. But it would have made a dog laugh to see how the
next day his passion ran out another way: in the morning he
walked along the shore, to and again, with his father, several
hours,—always leading him by the hand as if he had been a lady;
and every now and then would come to fetch something or other
for him from the boat, either a lump of sugar, or a dram, or
biscuit, or something or other that was good. In the afternoon
his frolics ran another way, for then he would set the old man
ADVENTURES OF
down upon the ground, and dance about him, and make a thou-
sand antic postures and gestures; and all the while he did this he
would be talking to him, and telling him one story or another of
his travels, and of what happened to him abroad, to divert him.
In short, if the same filial affection was to be found in Chris-
tians to their parents in our parts of the world, one would be
tempted to say there hardly would have been any need of the
fifth commandment
But this is a digression; I return to my landing. It would be
endless to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that
the Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard, whom, as I
said, I knew very well, was he whose life I saved—he came
towards the boat, attended by one more, carrying a flag of truce
also; and he did not only not know me at first, but he had no
thoughts, no notion, of its being me that was come, till I spoke
to him. "Seignior," said I, in Portuguese, "do you not know
me?" At which he spoke not a word; but giving his musket to
the man that was with him, threw his arms abroad, and saying
something in Spanish that I did not perfectly hear, came forward
and embraced me, telling me he was inexcusable not to know
that face again that he had once seen, as of an angel from Heaven
sent to save his life: he said abundance of very handsome things,
as a well-bred Spaniard always knows how—and then, beckoning
to the person that attended him, bade him go and call out his
comrades. He then asked me if I would walk to my old habita-
tion, where he would give me possession of my own house again,
and where I should see there had been but mean improvements.
So I walked along with him. But, alas! I could no more find
the place again than if I had never been there; for they had
planted so many trees, and placed them in such a posture, so
thick and close to one another, and in ten years time they were
grown so big, that, in short, the place was inaccessible, except by
such winding and blind ways as they themselves only who
made them could find.
I asked them what put them upon all these fortifications? He
told me, I would say there was need enough of it when they had
given an account how they had passed their time since their
arriving in the island, especially after they had the misfortune to
find that I was gone: he told me he could not but have some
satisfaction in my good fortune, when he heard that I was gone
KOBINSON REVIENT DANS SON 1LE
293
in a good ship, and to my satisfaction; and that he had often-
times a strong persuasion that, one time or other, he should see
me again: but nothing that ever befel him in his life, he said,
was so surprising and afflicting to him at first, as the disappoint-
ment he was under when he came back to the island and found
I was not there.
As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom he said he had a long story to tell me, the
Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the savages,
only that their number was so small. "And," says he, "had
they been strong enough, we had been long ago in purgatory;"
and with that he crossed himself upon the breast. "But, sir,"
says he, "I hope you will not be displeased when I shall tell you
how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for our own preserva-
tion, to disarm them, and make them our subjects who would not
be content with being moderately our masters, but would be our
murderers." I answered, "I was heartily afraid of it when I left
them there; and nothing troubled me at my parting from the
island, but that they were not come back, that I might have put
them in possession of everything first, and left the others in a
state of subjection, as they deserved: but if they had reduced
them to it, I was very glad, and should be very far from finding
any fault with it, for I knew they were a parcel of refractory,
ungovernable villains, and were fit for any manner of mischief."
While I was saying this, came the man whom he had sent back,
and with him eleven men more. In the dress they were in, it
was impossible to guess what nation they were off; but he made
all clear, both to them and to me. First he turned to me, and
pointing to them, said, "These, sir, are some of the gentlemen
who owe their lives to you;" and then turning to them, and point-
ing to me, he let them know who I was; upon which they all came
up one by one, not as if they had been sailors, and ordinary fellows,
and I the like, but really as if they had been ambassadors, or
noblemen, and I a monarch or a great conqueror: their behaviour
was to the last degree obliging and courteous, and yet mixed with
a manly, majestic gravity, which very well became them; and, in
short, they had so much more manners than I, that I scarce knew
how to receive their civilities, much less how to return them in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in, the island, after
my going away, is so remarkable, and has so many incidents which
ADVENTURES OF
the former part of my relation will help to understand, and which
will in most of the particulars refer to that account I have already
given, that I cannot but commit them with great delight to the
reading of those that come after me.
I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first
person, which will put me to the expense of ten thousand "said
I's," and "said he's," and "he told me's," and " I told him's," and
the like; but I shall collect the facts historically, as near as I can
gather them out of my memory from what they related to me, and
from what I met with in my conversing with them, and with the place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I can, I
must go back to the circumstances in which I left the island, and
which the persons were in of whom I am to speak. At first, it is
necessary to repeat, that I had sent away Friday's father and the
Spaniard, the two whose lives I had rescued from the savages—I
say, I had sent them away in a large canoe to the main, as I then
thought it, to fetch over the Spaniard's companions whom he had
left behind him, in order to save them from the like calamity that
he had been in, and in order to succour them for the present, and
that, if possible, we might together find some way for our deliver-
ance afterward.
When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or the
least room to hope for, my own deliverance, any more than I had
twenty years before; much less had I any foreknowledge of what
after happened,—I mean of an English ship coming on shore there
to fetch me off: and it could not but be a very great surprise to
them when they came back, not only to find that I was gone, but
to find three strangers left on the spot, possessed of all that I had
left behind me, which would otherwise have been their own.
The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might
begin where I left off, was of their own part; and I desired he
would give me a particular account of his voyage back to his
countrymen with the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over.
He told me there was little variety in that part, for nothing remark-
able happened to them on their way, they having very calm weather,
and a smooth sea; for his countrymen, it could not be doubted,
he said, but that they were overjoyed to see him (it seems he was
the principal man among them, the captain of the vessel they had
been shipwrecked in having been dead some time): they were, he
said, the more surprised to see him, because they knew that he
295
was fallen into the hands of the savages, who they were satisfied
would devour him, as they did all the rest of their prisoners; that
when he told them the story of his deliverance, and in what manner
he was furnished for carrying them away, it was like a dream to
them, and their astonishment, he said, was something like that of
Joseph's brethren, when he told them who he was, and told them
the story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court; but when he showed
them the arms, the powder, the ball, and the provisions that he
brought them for their journey, or voyage, they were restored to
themselves, took a just share of the joy of their deliverance, and
prepared to come away with him.
The first business was to get canoes; and in this they were
obliged not to stick so much to the honest part of it, but to tres-
pass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow two large canoes,
or periaguas, on pretence of going out a-fishing or for pleasure.
In these they came away the next morning: it seems they
wanted no time to get themselves ready, for they had no baggage,
—neither clothes, nor provisions, nor any other thing in the world
but what they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they
used to make their bread.
They were in all three weeks absent; and in that time, unluckily
for them, I had the occasion offered for my escape, as I mentioned
in my other part, and to get off from the island, leaving three of
the most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains
behind me that any man could desire to meet with, to the poor
Spaniards' great grief and disappointment you may be sure.
The only just thing the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards
came on shore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them pro-
visions and other relief as I had ordered them to do; also they
gave them the long paper of directions, which I had left with
them, containing the particular method which I took for manag-
ing every part of my life there—the way how I baked my bread,
bred up my tame goats, and planted my corn—how I cured my
grapes, made my pots, and, in a word, everything I did: all this
being written down, they gave to the Spaniards, two of whom
understood English well enough; nor did they refuse to accom-
modate the Spaniards with anything else, for they agreed very
well for some time. They gave them an equal admission into
the house, or cave, and they began to live very sociably; and the
head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my method, and
ADVENTURES OF
Friday's father together, managed all their affairs; for, as for the
Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island, shoot
parrots, and catch tortoises, and when they came home at night,
the Spaniards provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, would the
others but have left them alone, which, however, they could not
find in their hearts to do long; but, like the dog in the manger,
they would not eat themselves, and would not let others eat
neither. The differences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial,
and such as are not worth relating: but at last it broke out into
open war, and it began with all the rudeness and insolence that
can be imagined, without reason, without provocation, contrary to
nature, and indeed to common sense; and though, it is true, the
first relation of it came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I
may call the accusers, yet when I came to examine the fellows,
they could not deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply
a defect in my former relation; and this was, that I forgot to set
down among the rest, that just as we were weighing anchor to set
sail, there happened a little quarrel on board our ship, which I
was afraid once would turn out to a second mutiny; nor was it
appeased till the captain, rousing up his courage, and taking us
all to his assistance, parted them by force, and making two of the
most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons: and as
they had been active in the former disorders, and let fall some
ugly dangerous words the second time, he threatened to carry
them in irons to England, and have them hanged there for
mutiny, and running away with the ship.
This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to do it,
frighted some other men in the ship; and some of them had
put it in the heads of the rest that the captain only gave them
good words for the present till they should come to some English
port, and that then they should be all put into a jail and tried for
their lives.
The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it;
upon which it was desired that I, who still passed for a great man
among them, should go down with the mate and satisfy the men,
and tell them, that they might be assured, if they behaved well
the rest of the voyage, all they had done for the time past should
be pardoned. So I went, and after passing my honour's word to
297
them, they appeared easy, and the more so, when I caused the
two men who were in irons to be released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night,
the wind also falling calm. The next morning we found that our
two men, who had been laid in irons, had stole each of them a
musket and some other weapons—what powder or shot they had
we knew not—and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not
yet hauled up, and run away with her to their companions in
roguery on shore.
As soon as we found this, I ordered the long boat on shore,
with twelve men and the mate, and away they went to seek the
rogues; but they could neither find them, nor any of the rest,
for they all fled into the woods when they saw the boat coming
on shore. The mate was once resolved, in justice to their roguery,
to have destroyed their plantations, burnt all their household stuff
and furniture, and left them to shift without it; but having no
order, he left all alone, left everything as he found it, and, bring-
ing the pinnace away, came on board without them.
These two men made their number five: but the other three
villains were so much wickeder than these, that, after they had
been two or three days together, they turned their two new-
comers out of doors to shift for themselves, and would have
nothing to do with them ; nor could they, for a good while, be
persuaded to give them any food: as for the Spaniards, they were
not yet come.
When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to
go forward: the Spaniards would have persuaded the three Eng-
lish brutes to have taken in their two countrymen again, that, as
they said, they might be all one family; but they would not hear
of it: so the two poor fellows lived by themselves, and finding
that nothing but industry and application would make them live
comfortable, they pitched their tents on the north shore of the
island, but a little more to the west, to be out of the danger of
the savages, who always landed on the east parts of the island.
Here they built two huts, one to lodge in, and the other
to lay up their magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards
having given them some corn for seed, and especially some of the
peas which I had left them, they dug, and planted, and enclosed,
after the pattern I had set for them all, and began to live pretty
well Their first crop of corn was on the ground, and though it
ADVENTURES OF
was but a little bit of land which they had dug up at first, having
had but a little time, yet it was enough to relieve them, and find
them with bread or other eatables: and one of the fellows, being
the cook's mate of the ship, was very ready at making soup,
puddings, and such other preparations as the rice and the milk,
and such little flesh as they got, furnished him to do.
They were going on in this little thriving posture, when the
three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere
humour, and to insult them, came and bullied them, and told
them the island was theirs; that the governor, meaning me, had
given them possession of it, and nobody else had any right to it;
and that they should build no houses upon their ground, unless
they would pay them rent for them.
The two men thought they had jested at first, and asked them
to come and sit down, and see what fine houses they were that
they had built, and tell them what rent they demanded: and one
of them merrily told them, if they were ground landlords, he
hoped, if they built tenements upon the land, and made improve-
ments, they would, according to the custom of all landlords, grant
them a long lease, and bade them go fetch a scrivener to draw
writings. One of the three, damning and raging, told them they
should see they were not in jest; and going to a little place at a
distance, where the honest men had made a fire to dress their
victuals, he takes a firebrand and claps it to the outside of their
hut, and very fairly sets it on fire; and it would have been all
burnt down in a few minutes, if one of the two had not run to the
fellow, thrust him away, and trod the fire out with his feet, and
that not without some difficulty too.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting him
away, that he turned upon him with a pole he had in his hand;
and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into
the hut, he had ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing
the danger they were both in, ran in after him, and immediately
they came both out with their muskets; and the man that was
first struck at with the pole knocked the fellow down who began
the quarrel with the stock of his musket, and that before the
other two could come to help him; and then seeing the rest come
they stood together, and, presenting the other ends of their pieces
to them, bade them to stand off.
The others had firearms with them, too ; but one of the two
299
honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his
danger, told them if they offered to move hand or foot they were
all dead men, and boldly commanded them to lay down their
arms. They did not, indeed, lay down their arms; but seeing
him resolute, it brought them to a parley, and they consented to
take their wounded man with them and begone : and, indeed, it
seems the fellow was wounded sufficiently with the blow. How-
ever, they were much in the wrong, since they had the advantage,
that they did not disarm them effectually, as they might have done,
and have gone immediately to the Spaniards, and given them an
account how the rogues had treated them; for the three villains
studied nothing but revenge, and every day gave them some
intimation that they did so.
But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part of
their rogueries, such as treading down their corn, shooting three
young kids and a she-goat, which the poor men had got to breed
up tame for their store, and, in a word, plaguing them night and
day in this manner, it forced the two men to such a desperation,
that they resolved to fight them all three the first time they had a
fair opportunity. In order to this, they resolved to go to the
castle, as they called it, that was my old dwelling, where the three
rogues and the Spaniards all lived together at that time, intending
to have a fair battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to see
fair play. So they got up in the morning before day, and came
to the place, and called the Englishmen by their names, telling a
Spaniard, that answered, that they wanted to speak with them.
It happened that, the day before, two of the Spaniards having
been in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom,
for distinction, I call the honest men; and he had made a sad
complaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met
with from their three countrymen, and how they had ruined their
plantation, and destroyed their corn that they had laboured so
hard to bring forward, and killed the milch-goat, and their three
kids, which was all they had provided for their sustenance—and
that, if he and his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist
them again, they should be starved. When the Spaniards came
home at night, and they were all at supper, he took the freedom
to reprove the three Englishmen, though in gentle and mannerly
terms, and asked them how they could be so cruel, they being
harmless, inoffensive fellows, and that they were putting them-
3oo
ADVENTURES OF
selves in a way to subsist by their labour, and that it had cost
them a great deal to bring things to such perfection as they had.
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, "What had they
to do there? That they came on shore without leave, and that
they should not plant or build upon the island; it was none of
their ground." "Why," says the Spaniard very calmly, "Seignior
Inglese, they must not starve." The Englishman replied, like a
true rough-hewn tarpaulin, "They might starve, if they chose;
they should not plant nor build in that place." "But what must
they do, then, Seignior?" says the Spaniard. Another of the
brutes returned, " Do! why, they should be servants, and work
for them." "But how can you expect that of them? They are
not bought with your money; you have no right to make them
servants." The Englishmen answered, "The island was theirs,
the governor had given it to them, and no man had anything to
do there but themselves;" and, with that, swore by his Maker
that he would go and burn all their new huts—they should build
none upon their land.
"Why, Seignior," said the Spaniards, "by the same rule, we
must be your servants too." "Ay," says the bold dog, "and so
you shall too, before we have done with you;" mixing two or
three oaths in the proper intervals of his speech. The Spaniard
only smiled at that, and made him no answer. However, this
little discourse had heated them; and starting up, one says to the
other—I think it was he they called Will Atkins—" Come, Jack,
let us go and have the other brush with them; we will demolish
their castle, I will warrant you; they shall plant no colony in our
dominions."
Upon this they were all trooping away, with every man a gun,
a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among
themselves, of what they would do to the Spaniards, too, when
opportunity offered; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not so
perfectly understand them as to know all the particulars,—only
that, in general, they threatened them hard for taking the two
Englishmen's part
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that even-
ing, the Spaniards said they did not know, but it seems they wan-
dered about the country part of the night; and then, lying down
in the place which I used to call my bower, they were weary, and
overslept themselves. The case was this:—They had resolved
301
to stay till midnight, so to take the poor men when they were
asleep; and they acknowledged it afterwards, intending to set fire
to their huts while they were in them, and either burn them in
them, or murder them as they came out: and, as malice seldom
sleeps very sound, it was very strange they should not have been
kept waking.
However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I
have said, though a much fairer one than that of burning and
murdering, it happened, and very luckily for them all, that they
were up and gone abroad before the bloody-minded rogues came
to their huts.
When they came thither, and found the men gone, Atkins, who,
it seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his companions,
"Ha! Jack, here's the nest; but the birds are flown!" They
mused awhile to think what should be the occasion of their going
abroad so soon, and suggested presently that the Spaniards had
given them notice of it: and with that they shook hands and swore
to one another that they would be revenged of the Spaniards.
As soon as they had made this bloody bargain, they fell to work with the poor men's habitation—they did not set fire indeed to
anything, but they pulled down both their houses, and pulled them
so limb from limb that they left not the least stick standing, or
scarce any sign on the ground where they stood: they tore all
their little collected household stuff in pieces, and threw everything
about in such a manner, that the poor men found afterwards some
of their things a mile off from their habitation.
When they had done this they pulled up all the young trees
which the poor men had planted—pulling up the enclosure they
had made to secure their cattle and their corn: and, in a word,
sacked and plundered everything as completely as a herd of
Tartars would have done.
The two men were at this juncture gone to find them out, and
had resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though they
were but two to three—so that, had they met, there certainly
would have been bloodshed among them; for they were all very
stout, resolute fellows, to give them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them asunder, than
they themselves could do to meet—for, as they had dogged one
another, when the three were gone thither, the two were here—
and afterwards, when the two went to find them, the three were
3<M
ADVENTURES OF
come to the old habitation again: we shall see their differing
conduct presently. When the three came back like furious
creatures, flushed with the rage which the work they had been about put them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told
them what they had done, by way of scoff and bravado; and one
of them, stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been
a couple of boys at play, takes hold of his hat, as it was upon his
head, and, giving it a twirl about, fleering in his face, says to him,
"And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if
you do not mend your manners." The Spaniard, who, though
quite a civil man, was as brave as a man could desire to be, and
withal a strong, well-made man, looked steadily at him for a good
while; and then, having no weapon in his hand, stepped gravely
up to him, and with one blow of his fist knocked him down, as an
ox is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the rogues, insolent
as the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard immediately : he missed
his body indeed, for the bullets went through his hair, but one of
them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much. The
blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than he really
was, and that put him into some heat; for before he acted all in
a perfect calm, bnt now, resolving to go through with his work,
he stooped and took the fellow's musket whom he had knocked
down, and was just going to shoot the man who had fired at him,
when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, came out, and
calling to him not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the other
two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all
the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own countrymen,
they began to cool, and, giving the Spaniards better words, would
have had their arms again; but the Spaniards considering
the feud that was between them and the other two Englishmen,
and that it would be the best method they could take to keep
them from one another, told them they would do them no harm,—
and, if they would live peaceably, they would be very willing to
assist and associate with them as they did before, but that they
could not think of giving them their arms again, while they
appeared so resolved to do mischief with them to their own
countrymen, and had even threatened them all to make them
their servants.
The rogues were not more capable to hear reason than to act
reason; but being refused their arms, they went raving away, and
raging like madmen, threatening what they would do, though
they had no firearms: but the Spaniards, despising their threat-
ening, told them they should take care how they offered an injury
to their plantation or cattle; for if they did, they would shoot
them as they would do ravenous beasts, wherever they found
them, and if they fell into their hands alive, they should certainly
be hanged. However, this was far from cooling them: but away
they went, swearing and raging like furies of hell. As soon as
they were gone, came back the two men in passion and rage
enough also, though of another kind; for, having been at their
plantation, and finding it all demolished and destroyed, as above,
it will easily be supposed that they had provocation enough: they
could scarce have room to tell their tale, the Spaniards were so
eager to tell them theirs; and it was strange enough to find that
three men should thus bully nineteen, and receive no punish-
ment at all.
The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially having
thus disarmed them, made light of their threatenings; but the two
Englishmen resolved to have their remedy against them, what
pain soever it cost to find them out
But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them they
were already disarmed: they could not consent that they (the two)
should pursue them with firearms, and perhaps kill them. "But,"
said the grave Spaniard, who was their governor, "we will endea-
vour to make them do you justice, if you will leave it to us; for
as there is no doubt but they will come to us again when their
passion is over, being not able to subsist without our assistance, we
promise you to make no peace with them, without having a full
satisfaction for you: and upon this condition we hope you will
promise to use no violence with them, other than in your defence."
The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly and with
great reluctance, but the Spaniards protested they did it only to
keep them from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last; for,
said they, we are not so many of us—here is room enough for us
all, and it is a great pity we should not be all good friends. At
length they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing,
living for some days with the Spaniards; for their own habitation
was destroyed.
In about five days' time the three vagrants, tired with wander-
ADVENTURES OF
ing, and almost starved with hunger, came back to the grove;
and finding my Spaniard and two more with him, walking by the
side of the creek, they came up in a very submissive humble
manner, and begged to be received again into the family. The
Spaniards used them very civilly, but told them they had acted
so unnaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by them
(the Spaniards), that they could not come to any conclusion with-
out consulting the two Englishmen and the rest; but, however,
they would go to them, and discourse about it, and they should
know in half an hour.
After half an hour's consultation they were called in, and a
long debate had about them, their two countrymen charging them
with the ruin of all their labour, and a design to murder them;
all which they owned before, and therefore could not deny now.
Upon the whole, the Spaniards acted as moderators between
them; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt
the three, while they were naked and unarmed, so they now
obliged the three to go and rebuild their fellows' two huts, one to
be of the same dimensions, and the other larger than they were
before; also to fence their ground again, where they had pulled
up the fences; plant trees in the room of those pulled up; dig
up the land again for planting corn, where they had spoiled it;
and, in a word, to restore everything in the same state as they
found it; as near as they could,—for entirely it could not be, the
season for the corn, and the growth of the trees and hedges, not
being possible to be recovered.
Well, they all submitted to this; and as they had plenty of
provisions given them all the while, they grew very orderly, only
that these three fellows could never be persuaded to work for
themselves, except now and then a little, just as they pleased.
Thus, having lived pretty well together for a month or two, the
Spaniards gave them their arms again, and gave them liberty to
go abroad with them as before. It was not above a week after
they had these arms, and went abroad, but the ungrateful creatures
began to be as insolent as before; but, however, an accident
happened presently upon this, which endangered the safety of
them all: they were obliged to lay by all private resentment, and
look to the preservation of their lives.
It happened one night that the Spaniard governor, as I call
him—that is to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, who
305
was now the captain, or leader, or governor of the rest—found
himself very uneasy in the night, and could by no means get any
sleep: he was perfectly well in body, only found his thoughts
tumultuous, and his mind run upon men fighting, and killing one
another; and, growing more and more uneasy, he resolved to rise.
Being thus gotten up, he looked out; but, being dark, he could see
little or nothing: and besides, the trees which I had planted, as in
my former account is described, and which were now grown tall,
intercepted his sight, so that he could only look up and see that
it was a clear starlight night; and, hearing no noise, he returned
and laid him down again. But it was all one; he could not sleep,
nor could he compose himself to anything like rest, but his thoughts
were to the last degree uneasy, and ) et he knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going
out and coming in, another of them waked, and, calling, asked
who it was that was up? The governor told him how it had been
with him. "Say you so?" says the other Spaniard; "such things
are not to be slighted, I assure you: there is certainly some
mischief working," says he, "near us ;" and presently he asked
him, "Where are the Englishmen ?"—" They are all in their
huts," says he, "safe enough." It seems, the Spaniards had kept
possession of the main apartment, and had made a place where
the three Englishmen, since their last mutiny, always quartered
by themselves, and could not come at the rest. "Well," says
the Spaniard, "there is something in it, I am persuaded from my
own experience; I am certain our spirits embodied have converse
with, and receive intelligence from, the spirits unembodied, and
inhabiting the invisible world; and this friendly notice is given
for our advantage, if we know how to make use of it. Come,"
says he, "let us go out and look abroad; and if we find nothing
at all in it to justify our trouble, I'll tell you a story to the pur-
pose, that shall convince you of the justice of my proposing it."
In a word, they went out to go to the top of the hill, where I
used to go; but they, being strong, and in good company, nor
alone, as I was, used none of my cautions to go up by the ladder,
and then, pulling it up after them, to go up a second stage to the
top, but were going round through the grove unconcerned and
unwary, when they were surprised with seeing a light as of fire, a
very little way off from them, and hearing the voices of men, not
of one or two, but of a great number.
U
ADVENTURES OF
Whether it was the consequence of the escape of the three savages
in our last encounter, who jumped into the boat, and of whom I
mentioned that I was afraid they should go home and bring more
help, that so great a number came now together; or whether they
came ignorantly, and by accident, on their usual bloody errand,
the Spaniards could not, it seems, understand: but whatever it
was, it had been their business to have concealed themselves, and
to have fallen upon them so effectually, as that not a man of them
should have escaped, which could only have been by getting in
between them and their boats: but this presence of mind was want-
ing to them, which was the ruin of their tranquillity for a great while.
We need not doubt but that the governor, and the man with him,
surprised with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised their
fellows, giving them an account of the imminent danger they were
all in, and they again as readily took the alarm; but it was im-
possible to persuade them to stay close within where they were,
but that they must all run out to see how things stood.
While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they had
opportunity enough, for some hours, to view them by the light of
three fires they had made at some distance from one another.
What they were doing they knew not, and what to do themselves
they knew not; for, first, the enemy were too many; and, secondly,
they did not keep together, but were divided into several parties,
and were on shore in several places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight; and
as they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore,
they made no doubt but some of them would chop in upon their
habitation, or upon some other place where they would see the
tokens of inhabitants; and they were in great perplexity also for
fear of their flock of goats, which would have been little less than
starving them, if they should have been destroyed. Could they
have seen the savages all together in one body, and at a distance
from their canoes, they resolved, if there had been an hundred of
them, to have attacked them; but that could not be obtained, for
there were some of them two miles off from the other, and, as it
appeared afterwards, were of two different nations.
After having mused a great while on the course they should
take, and exerted themselves in considering their present circum-
stances, they resolved at last, while it was dark, to send the old
savage (Friday's father) out as a spy to learn, if possible, something
307
concerning them, as to what they came for, and what they intended
to do, and the like. The old man undertook it without hesita-
tion, and stripping himself quite naked, as most of the savages
were, away he went. After he had been gone an hour or two, he
brings word that he had been among them undiscovered, that he
found they were two parties, and of two several nations, who had
war with one another, and had had a great battle in their own
country; and that both sides, having had several prisoners taken
in the fight, they were, by mere chance, landed on the same island
for the devouring their prisoners, and making merry; but their
coming so by chance to the same place had spoiled all their mirth:
that they were in a great rage at one another, and were so near,
that he believed they would fight again as soon as daylight began
to appear; but he did not perceive that they had any notion of
anybody's being on the island but themselves. He had hardly
made an end of telling the story, when he could perceive, by the
unusual noise they made, that the two little armies were engaged
in a bloody fight.
Friday's father used all the arguments he could to persuade our
people to lie close, and not to be seen; but it was impossible to
prevail, especially upon the Englishmen—their curiosity was so
importunate upon their prudentials, that they must run out and
see the battle: however, they used some caution, namely, they
did not go openly just by their own dwelling, but went farther
into the woods, and placed themselves to advantage, where they
might securely see them manage the fight, and, as they thought,
not be seen by them; but it seems the savages did see them, as
we shall find hereafter.
The battle was very fierce, and, if I might believe the English-
men, one of them said he could perceive that some of them were
men of great bravery, of invincible spirits, and great policy in guid-
ing the fight. The battle, they said, held two hours, before they
could guess which party would be beaten; but then that party
which was nearest our people's habitation began to appear weakest,
and after some time more, some of them began to fly: and this
put our men again into a great consternation, lest any of those
that fled should run into the grove before their dwelling for shelter,
and thereby involuntarily discover the place, and that, by conse-
quence, the pursuers should do the like in search of them. Upon
this they resolved that they would stand armed within the wall,
ADVENTURES OF
and whoever came into the grove, they should sally out over the
wall and kill them—so that, if possible, not one should return to
give an account of it. They ordered also, that it should be done
with their swords, or by knocking them down with the stock of
the musket, not by shooting them, for fear of raising an alarm by
the noise
.
As they expected, it fell out: three of the routed army fled for
life, and, crossing the creek, ran directly into the place, not in the
least knowing whither they went, but running as into a thick
wood for shelter. The scout they kept to look abroad gave notice
of this within—with this addition, to our men's great satisfaction,
namely, that the conquerors had not pursued them, or seen which
way they were gone. Upon this, the Spaniard governor, a man
of humanity, would not suffer them to kill the fugitives; but
sending three men out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go
round and come in behind them, surprise, and take them
prisoners; which was done. The residue of the conquered
people fled to their canoes and got off to sea; the victors retired,
and made no pursuit, or very little, but, drawing themselves into
a body together, gave two great screaming shouts, which they
supposed were by way of triumph, and so the fight ended: and
the same day, about three o'clock in the afternoon, they also
marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their
island again free to themselves, the fight was over, and they saw
no savages in several years after.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den,
and, viewing the field of battle, they found about two-and-thirty
dead men upon the spot They found not one wounded man
that was not stone dead; for either these savages stay by their
enemy till they have quite killed them, or they carry all the
wounded men, that are not quite dead, away with them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while: the
sight had filled them with horror, and the consequence appeared
terrible to the last degree, especially upon supposing that some
time or other they should fall into the hands of those creatures,
who would not only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food,
as we kill our cattle. This, as I said, tamed even the three
English brutes I have been speaking of, and, for a great while
after, they were very tractable, and went about the common busi-
ness of the whole society well enough—planted, sowed, reaped,
309
and began to be all naturalised to the country; but some time
after this, they fell all into such simple measures again as brought
them into a deal of trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I had observed; and these
three being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them servants,
and taught them to work for them: and as slaves they did well
enough; but they did not take their measures with them as I did
with my man Friday, namely, to begin with them upon the prin-
ciple of having saved their lives, and then instructed them in the
rational principles of life, much less of religion, civilising and
reducing them by kind usage and affectionate arguings; but as
they gave them their food every day, so they gave them their
work too, and kept them fully employed in drudgery enough: but
they failed in this by it, that they never had them to assist them
and fight for them, as I had my man Friday, who was as true to
me as the very flesh upon my bones.
But to come to the family part Being all now good friends
(for common danger, as I said above, had effectually reconciled
them), they began to consider their general circumstances; and
the first thing that came under their consideration was, whether,
seeing the savages particularly haunted that side of the island,
and that there were more remote and retired parts of it equally
adapted to their way of living, they should not rather remove
their habitation.
After long debate, it was conceived that they should not remove
their habitation, because they thought they might hear from their
governor again, meaning me; and if I should send any one to
seek them, I would be sure to direct them on that side, where, if
they should find the place demolished, they would conclude the
savages had killed them all, and they were gone, and so their
supply would go away too. But as to their corn and cattle, they
agreed to remove them into the valley where my cave was, where
the land was as proper to both, and where indeed there was land
enough: however, upon second thoughts, they altered one part
of that resolution too, and resolved only to remove part of their
cattle thither, and plant part of their corn there; and so, if one
part was destroyed, the other might be saved: and one piece of
prudence they used, which it was very well they did, namely, that
they never trusted these three savages which they had taken
prisoners with knowing anything of the plantation they had made
in that valley, or of any cattle they had there, much less of
the cave there, which they kept in case of necessity as a safe
retreat; and thither they carried also the two barrels of powder
which I had left them at my coming away.
But, however, they resolved not to change their habitation; yet
they agreed that, as I had carefully covered it first with a wall and
fortification and then with a grove of trees, so, seeing their safety
consisted entirely in their being concealed, of which they were now
fully convinced, they set to work to cover and conceal the place
yet more effectually than before.
I return to the story. They lived two years after this in perfect
retirement, and had no more visits from the savages. They had
indeed an alarm given them one morning, which put them in a
great consternation; for some of the Spaniards being out early
one morning on the west side, or rather end, of the island—which
by the way was that end where I never went, for fear of being dis-
covered—they were surprised by seeing above twenty canoes of
Indians just coming on shore.
They made the best of their way home in hurry enough, and
giving the alarm to their comrades, they kept close all that day
and the next, going out only at night to make observations; but
they had the good luck to be mistaken, for wherever the savages
went, they did not land at that time on the island, but pursued
some other design.
And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen, one
of which, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one of the
three slaves which I mentioned they had taken, because the fellow
had not done something right which he bade him do, and seemed
a little untractable in his showing him, drew a hatchet out of a
frogbelt in which he bore it by his side, and fell upon him, the
poor savage, not to correct him, but to kill him. One of the
Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous cut
with the hatchet, which he aimed at his head, but struck into his
shoulder, so that he thought he had cut the poor creature's arm
off, ran to him, and, entreating him not to murder the poor man,
clapped in between him and the savage to prevent the mischief.
The fellow, being enraged the more at this, struck at the Spaniard
with his hatchet, and swore he would serve him as he intended to
serve the savage; which the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the
blow, and with a shovel which he had in his hand (for they were
3"
working in the field about the corn-land) knocked the brute down:
another of the Englishmen, running at the same time to help his
comrade, knocked the Spaniard down, and then two Spaniards
more came to help their man, and a third Englishman fell upon
them. They had none of them any fire-arms, or any other weapon
but hatchets and other tools, except the third Englishman: he had
one of my old rusty cutlasses, with which he made at the last
Spaniards, and wounded them both. This fray set the whole
family in an uproar, and, more help coming in, they took the three
Englishmen prisoners. The next question was, what should be
done with them? They had been so often mutinous, and were so
furious, so desperate, and so idle withal, that they knew not what
course to take with them, for they were mischievous to the highest
degree, and valued not what hurt they did any man; so that, in
short, it was not safe to live with them.
The Spaniard who was governor, told them, in so many words,
that if they had been his own countrymen he would have hanged
them all—for all laws and all governors were to preserve society,
and those who were dangerous to society ought to be expelled
out of it; but, as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the
generous kindness of an Englishman that they all owed their
preservation and deliverance, he would use them with all possible
lenity, and would leave them to the judgment of the other two
Englishmen, who were their countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen then stood up, and said
they desired it might not be left to them: "For," says he, "I am
sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows;" and with that
gives an account how Will Atkins, one of the three, had proposed
to have all the five Englishmen join together, and murder all the
Spaniards when they were in their sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will Atkins: "How! Seignior Atkins," says he, "will you murder us all?
What have you to say to that?" That hardened villain was so
far from denying it, that he said it was true, and declared they
would do it still before they had done with them. "Well, but,
Seignior Atkins," said the Spaniard, "what have we done to you
that you would kill us? And what would you get by killing us?
And what must we do to prevent you killing us? Must we kill
you, or will you kill us? Why will you put us to the necessity of
this, Seignior Atkins?" asks the Spaniard very calmly and smiling.
ADVENTURES OF
Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's making a
jest of it, that had he not been held by three men, and withal had
no weapons with him, it was thought he would have attempted to
have killed the Spaniard in the middle of all the company.
This hairbrained carriage obliged them to consider seriously
what was to be done. After a long debate, it was agreed, first,
that they should be disarmed, and not permitted to have either a
gun, or powder, or shot, or sword, or any weapon, and should be
turned out of the society, and left to live where they would, and
how they could, by themselves; but that none of the rest, either
Spaniards or English, should converse with them, speak with them,
or have anything to do with them; that they should be forbid to
come within a certain distance of the place where the rest dwelt;
and that, if they offered to commit any disorder, so as to spoil,
burn, kill, or destroy any of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences,
or cattle belonging to the society, they should die without mercy.
The governor, a man of great humanity, musing upon the
sentence, considered a little upon it, and, turning to the two
honest Englishmen, said, "Hold, you must reflect that it will be
long ere they can raise corn and cattle of their own, and they
must not starve—we must therefore allow them provisions." So
he caused to be added, that they should have a proportion of
corn given them to last them eight months, and for seed to sow,
by which time they might be supposed to raise some of their own;
that they should have six milch-goats, four he-goats, and six kids,
given them, as well for present subsistence as for a store; and
that they should have tools given them for their work in the field
-—such as six hatchets, an axe, a saw, and the like; but they
should have none of these tools or provisions unless they would
swear solemnly that they would not hurt or injure any of the
Spaniards with them, or their fellow Englishmen.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to
shift for themselves. They went away sullen and refractory, as
neither contented to go away or to stay; but as there was no
remedy, they went pretending to go and choose a place where
they should settle themselves, to plant and live by themselves,
and some provisions were given them, but no weapons.
They lived in this separate condition about six months, and had
got in their first harvest, but when the rainy season came on, for
want of a cave in the earth, they could not keep their grain dry:
313
so they came and begged the Spaniards to help them, which they
very readily did, and in four days worked a great hole in the side
of the hill for them, big enough to secure their corn and other
things from the rain.
About three quarters of a year after this separation, a new
frolic took these rogues, which, together with the former villany
they had committed, brought mischief enough upon them, and
had very near been the ruin of the whole colony.
The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one morning,
and, in very humble terms, desired to be admitted to speak with
them: the Spaniards very readily heard what they had to say,
which was this—that they were tired of living in the manner they
did, that they were not handy enough to make the necessaries
they wanted, and that, having no help, they found they should be
starved; but if the Spaniards would give them leave to take one
of the canoes which they came over in, and give them arms and
ammunition proportioned to their defence, they would go over to
the main, and seek their fortune, and so deliver them from the
trouble of supplying them with any other provisions.
The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that, if they were
resolved to go, they should not go like naked men, and be in no
condition to defend themselves; and that, though they could ill
spare their firearms, having not enough for themselves, yet they
would let them have two muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and each
man a hatchet, which they thought sufficient for them.
In a word, they accepted the offer; and having baked them
bread enough to serve them a month, and given them as much
goat's flesh as they could eat while it was sweet, and a great basket
full of dried grapes, a pot full of fresh water, and a young kid
alive to kill, they boldly set out in a canoe for a voyage over the
sea, where it was at least forty miles broad . The boat was, indeed,
a large one, and would have very well carried fifteen or twenty
men, and therefore was rather too big for them to manage; but, as
they had a fair breeze, and the flood-tide with them, they did well
enough. They had made a mast of a long pole, and a sail of four
large goat-skins dried, which they had sewed or laced together, and
away they went merrily enough: the Spaniards called after them.
"Bon veajo," and no man ever thought of seeing them any more.
After twenty-two days absence, one of the two honest English-
men being abroad upon his planting work, sees three strange men
ADVENTURES OF
coming towards him, two of them with guns upon their shoulders.
Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, and came,
frighted and amazed, to the governor Spaniard, and tells him they
were all undone, for there were strangers landed upon the island,
he could not tell who. The Spaniard, pausing awhile, says to
him, "How do you mean, you cannot tell who? They are
savages, to be sure." "No, no," says the Englishman, "they are
men in clothes, with arms." "Nay, then," says the Spaniard,
"why are you concerned? If they are not savages, they must be
friends; for there is no Christian nation upon earth but will do us
good rather than harm."
While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen, and,
standing without the wood which was new planted, hallooed to them;
they presently knewtheir voices, so all thewonder of that kindceased.
But now the admiration was turned upon another question, namely,
what could be the matter, and what made them come back again.
It was not long before they brought the men in: and, inquiring
where they had been, and what they had been doing, they gave
them a full account of their voyage in a few words—namely, that
they reached the land in two days, or something less; but, finding
the people alarmed at their coming, and preparing with bows and
arrows to fight them, they durst not go on shore, but sailed on to
the northward six or seven hours, till they came to a great opening,
by which they perceived that the land they saw from our island
was not the main, but an island; that, entering that opening of
the sea, they saw another island on the right hand north, and
several more west, and, being resolved to land somewhere, they
put over to one of the islands which lay west, and went boldly on
shore; that they found the people very courteous and friendly to
them, and they gave them several roots, and some dried fish, and
appeared very sociable; and the women, as well as the men, were
very forward to supply them with anything they could get for them
to eat, and brought it to them a great way upon their heads.
They continued here for four days, and inquired, as well as they
could of them by signs, what nations were this way and that way,
and were told of several fierce and terrible people that lived almost
every way, who as they made known by signs to them, used
to eat men; but, as for themselves, they said that they never ate
men or women, except only such as they took in the wars, and then
they owned that they made a great feast, and ate their prisoners.
3'S
The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that kind, and
they told them two moons ago, pointing to the moon, and then to
two fingers; and that their great king had two hundred prisoners
now, which he had taken in his war, and they were feeding
them to make them fat for the next feast The Englishmen
seemed mighty desirous to see those prisoners, but the others,
mistaking them, thought they were desirous to have some of them
to carry away for their own eating; so they beckoned to them,
pointing to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising; which
was to signify that the next morning, at sun-rising, they would bring
some for them; and accordingly, the next morning they brought
down five women and eleven men, and gave them to the English-
men to carry with them on their voyage, just as we would bring so
many cows and oxen down to a sea-port town to victual a ship.
To refuse the prisoners, would have been the highest affront to
the savage gentry that offered them, and what to do with them
they knew not. However, upon some debate, they resolved to
accept of them; and, in return, they gave the savages that brought
them one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six or seven
of their bullets, which, though they did not understand, they seemed
extremely pleased with; and then, tying the poor creatures' hands
behind them, they (the people) dragged the prisoners into the
boat for our men.
Having taken their leave, with all the respect and thanks that
could well pass between people, where on either side they under-
stood not one word they could say, the Englishmen put off with
their boat, and came back towards the first island, where, when
they arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being
too many of them for their occasion.
In their voyage they endeavoured to have some communication
with their prisoners, but it was impossible to make them understand
anything; nothing they could say to them, or give them or do for
them, but was looked upon as going about to murder them; they
first of all unbound them, but the poor creatures screamed at that,
especially the women, as if they had just felt the knife at their
throats; for they immediately concluded they were unbound on
purpose to be killed . If they gave them anything to eat, it was
the same thing; then they concluded it was for fear they should
sink in flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill; if they looked at
one of them more particularly, the party presently concluded it was
ADVENTURES OF
to see whether he or she was fattest or fittest to kill first; nay, after
they had brought them quite over, and begun to use them kindly
and treat them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner
or supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable history
or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their
new family was? and being told that they had brought them on
shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come to beg
some victuals for them, they (the Spaniards) and the two other
Englishmen—that is to say, the whole colony—resolved to go all
down to the place and see them, and did so, and Friday's father
with them.
When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound; for
when they had brought them on shore they bound their hands,
that they might not take the boat and make their escape—there,
I say, they sat, all of them stark naked . First, there were three
men, lusty, comely fellows, well-shaped, with straight and fair limbs,
about thirty or thirty-five years of age; and five women, whereof
two might be from thirty to forty, two more not above twenty-four
or twenty-five, and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about sixteen
or seventeen. The women were well-favoured, agreeable persons,
both in shape and features, only tawny; and two of them, had they
been perfect white, would have passed for handsome women even
in London itself, having very pleasant, agreeable countenances, and
of a very modest behaviour, especially when they came afterwards
to be clothed, and dressed, as they called it, though that dress was
very indifferent, it must be confessed.
The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's
father, to go in and see first if he knew any of them, and then if he
, understood any of their speech. As soon as the old man came in,
he looked seriously at them, but knew none of them, neither could
any of them understand a word he said, or a sign he could make,
except one of the women. However, this was enough to answer
the end, which was to satisfy them that the men into whose hands
they were fallen were Christians, that they abhorred the eating of
men or women, and that they might be sure they would not be
killed . As soon as they were assured of this, they discovered such
a joy, and by such awkward and several ways, as is hard to describe,
for it seems they were of several nations.
The woman, who was their interpreter, was bid to ask them if
317
they were willing to be servants, and to work for the men who had
brought them away to save their lives? at which they fell a
dancing; and presently one fell to taking up this, and another
that—anything that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to inti-
mate that they were willing to work
.
The governor, who found that the having women among them
would presently be attended with some inconveniency, and might
occasion some strife, and perhaps blood, asked the three men what
they intended to do with these women, and how they intended to
use them, whether as servants or as wives? One of the English-
men answered very boldly and readily, that they would use them
as both. To which the governor said, "I am not going to restrain
you from it,—you are your own masters as to that; but this I think
is but just, for avoiding disorders and quarrels among you, and I
desire it of you for that reason only, namely, that you will all engage
that, if any of you take any of these women as a wife, he shall take
but one." All this appeared so just, that every one agreed to it
without any difficulty.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed to
take any of them? But every one answered, No. Some of them
said they had wives in Spain; and the others did not like women
that were not Christians: and all together declared that they
would not touch one of them, which was an instance of such virtue
as I have not met with in all my travels. On the other hand, t»
be short, the five Englishmen took them every one a wife; and so
they set up a new form of living, for the Spaniards and Friday's
father lived in my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceed-
ingly within: the three servants, which they had taken in the late
battle of the savages, lived with them; and these carried on the
main part of the colony, supplying all the rest with food, and
assisting them in anything as they could, or as they found neces-
sity required.
But the wonder of this story was, how five such refractory, ill-
matched fellows, should agree about these women, and that two of
them should not pitch upon the same woman, especially seeing two
or three of them were, without comparison, more agreeable than the
others: but they took a good way enough to prevent quarrelling
among themselves; for they set the five women by themselves in
one of their huts, and they went all into the other hut, and drew
lots among them who should choose first He that drew to choose
ADVENTURES OP
first, went away by himself to the hut where the poor creatures
were, and fetched out her he chose; and it was worth observing,
that he that chose first took her that was reckoned the homeliest
and the oldest of the five, which made mirth enough among the
irest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it: but the fellow con-
sidered better than any of them, that it was application and busi-
ness that they were to expect assistance in as much as anything
else; and she proved the best wife in the parcel.
When they had all chosen their wives, the men went to work, and
the Spaniards came and helped them; and in a few hours they had
built them every one a new hut or tent for their lodging apart The
three wicked ones had pitched farthest off, and the two honest ones
nearer, but both on the north shore of the island, so that they con-
tinued separate as before: and thus my island was peopled in three
places, and, as I might say, three towns were begun to be planted.
And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it often happens
in the world (what the wise ends of God's providence are in such
a disposition of things, I cannot say), the two honest fellows had
the two worst wives; and the three reprobates, that were scarce
worth hanging, that were fit for nothing, and neither seemed born
to do themselves good, nor any one else, had three clever, diligent,
careful, and ingenious wives—not that the two first were ill wives
as to their temper or humour, for all the five were most willing,
quiet, passive, and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than
wives; but my meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious,
or industrious, or alike cleanly and neat
As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they
were much civilised by their new settlement, compared to what
they were before, and were not so quarrelsome, having not the
same opportunity, yet one of the certain companions of a profligate
mind never left them, and that was their idleness. It is true, they
planted corn and made fences; but Solomon's words were never
better verified than in them—" I went by the vineyard of the sloth-
ful, and it was overgrown with thorns;" for when the Spaniards
came to view their crop, they could not see it in some places for
weeds; the hedge had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had
gotten in and eaten up the corn; perhaps here and there a dead
bush was crammed in to stop them out for the present, but it was
only shutting the stable-door after the steed was stolen: whereas,
when they looked on the colony of the other two, there was the
319
very face of industry and success upon all they did; there was not
a weed to be seen in all their corn, or a gap in any of their hedges;
and they, on the other hand, verified Solomon's words in another
place: "The diligent hand maketh rich;" for everything grew
and thrived, and they had plenty within and without; they had
more tame cattle than the others, more utensils and necessaries
within doors, and yet more pleasure and diversion too. The dili-
gent lived well and comfortably, and the slothful lived hard and beg-
garly; and so I believe, generally speaking, it is all over the world
.
But now I come to a scene different from all that had happened
before, either to them or me; and the origin of the story was this:
—Early one morning there came on shore five or six canoes of
Indians, or savages, call them which you please; and there is no
room to doubt that they came upon the old errand of feeding upon
their slaves: but that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards,
and to our men too, that they had nothing to do but to give notice
to all the three plantations to keep within doors, and not to show
themselves,—only placing a scout in a proper place, to give notice
when the boats went off to sea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled all
these measures, and made it known among the savages that there
were inhabitants there, which was in the end, the desolation of
almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the savages were
gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of them
had the curiosity to go to the place where they had been, to see
what they had been doing. Here, to their great surprise, they
found three savages left behind, and lying fast asleep upon the
ground . The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and
perfectly at a loss what to do. After some consultation, they
resolved upon this, that they would lie still a while longer, till, if
possible, these three men might be gone: but then the governor
Spaniard recollected that the three savages had no boat, and that
if they were left to rove about the island, they would certainly dis-
cover that there were inhabitants in it, and so they should be
undone that way. Upon this, they went back again, and there
lay the fellows fast asleep still; so they resolved to awaken them,
and take them prisoners; and they did so, and away they carried
them, first to the bower, where was the chief of their country work,
and afterwards to the habitation of the two Englishmea Here
they were set to work, though it was not much they had for them
ADVENTURES OF
to do; and whether it was by negligence in guarding them, or
that they thought the fellows could not mend themselves, I know
not, but one of them ran away, and, taking into the woods, they
could never hear of him more.
They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after
in some other boats or canoes of savages, who came on shore
three or four weeks afterwards, and who, carrying on their revels
as usual, went off again in two days time. This thought terrified
them exceedingly; for they concluded, and that not without good
cause indeed, that if this fellow got safe home among his comrades,
he would certainly give them an account that there were people
in the island, as also how weak and few they were. The first
testimony they had that this fellow had given intelligence of them
was, that, about two months after this, six canoes of savages, with
about seven, or eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along
the north side of the island, where they never used to come before,
and landed, about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place
about a mile from the habitation of the two Englishmen, where
this escaped man had been kept
When the poor frighted men had secured their wives and
goods, they sent one of the slaves they had of the three who came
with the women, and who was at their place by accident, away to
the Spaniards with all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire
speedy help; and, in the meantime, they took their arms and
what ammunition they had, and retreated towards the place in the
wood where their wives were sent, keeping at a distance, yet so
that they might see, if possible, which way the savages took.
They had not gone far but that, from a rising ground, they
could see the little army of their enemies come on directly to
their habitation, and in a moment more could see all their huts and
household stuff flaming up together, to their great grief and mor-
tification; for they had a very great loss, and to them irretrievable,
at least for some time. They kept their station for a while, till
they found the savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves all
over the place, rummaging every place they could think of in
search for prey, and, in particular, for the people, of whom it
plainly appeared they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen, seeing this, thought it proper to make
another retreat about half a mile further, believing, as it afterwards
happened, that the farther they strolled, the fewer would be
1
311
together. The next halt was at the entrance into a very thick
grown part of the woods, and where an old trunk of a tree stood,
which was hollow and vastly large; and in this tree they both
took their standing, resolving to see what might offer. They had
not stood there long, but two of the savages appeared running
directly that way, and a little way farther they espied three more
coming after them, and five more beyond them, all coming the
same way: besides which, they saw seven or eight more at a
distance, running another way; for, in a word, they ran every way,
like sportsmen beating for their game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity, but after a very
short debate, they resolved to stand them there, and if there were
too many to deal with, then they would get to the top of the tree,
from whence they doubted not to defend themselves, fire excepted,
as long as their ammunition lasted. They next considered whether
they should fire at the two first, or wait for the three, and so take
the middle party, by which the two and the five that followed
would be separated; at length they resolved to let the two first
pass by, unless they should spy them in the tree, and come to
attack them. The two first savages also confirmed them in this
resolution, by turning a little from them towards another part of
the wood; but the three, and the five after them, came forwards
directly to the tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were
there. As the savages came on, they plainly saw that one of the
three was the runaway savage that had escaped from them, and
they resolved that, if possible, he should not escape, though they
should both fire; so the other stood ready with his piece, that, ii
he did not drop at the first shot, he should be sure to have a
second. But the first was too good a marksman to miss his aim;
for as the savages kept near one another a little behind in a line,
he fired, and hit two of them directly; the foremost was killed
outright, being shot in the head; the second, which was the run-
away Indian, was shot through the body and fell, but was not quite
dead; and the third had a little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps
by the same ball that went through the body of the second, and
being dreadfully frighted, though not much hurt, sat down upon
the ground, screaming and yelling in a hideous manner.
The five that were behind, more frighted with the noise than
sensible of their danger, stood still at first; for the woods made
the sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes
t
322 ADVENTURES OFrattling from one side to another. However, all being silent
again, and they not knowing what the matter was, came on un-
concerned to the place were their companions lay; and here the
poor ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were within reach
of the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over the wounded
man, inquiring, as may be supposed, how he came to be hurt
Our two men, having them all thus in their power, and the first
having loaded his piece again, resolved to let fly both together
among them, and singling out by agreement which to aim at,
they shot together, and killed, or very much wounded, four of
them; the fifth, frighted even to death, though not hurt, fell with
the rest; so that our men, seeing them all fall together, thought
they had killed them all. This belief made our two men come
boldly out from the tree before they had charged their guns again,
which was a wrong step, and they were under some surprise when
they came to the place and found no less than four of the men
alive, and of them two very little hurt, and one not at all: this
obliged them to fall upon them with the stocks of their muskets;
and first they made sure of the runaway savage that had been
the cause of all the mischief, and of another that was hurt in his
knee, and put them out of their pain. Then the man that was
not hurt at all came and kneeled down to them with his two
hands held up, and made piteous moan to them by gestures and
signs for his life that they could understand.
They signified to him to sit down at the foot of a tree thereby;
and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope-twine which he
had by chance in his pocket, tied his feet fast together, and his
hands behind him, and there they left him, and made with what
speed they could after the other two which were gone before,
fearing they, or any more of them, should find the way to their
covered place in the woods, where their wives, and the few goods
they h\d left, lay. They came once in sight of the two men, but
it was at a great distance; however, they had the satisfaction to
see them cross over a valley towards the sea, the quite contrary
way from that which led to their retreat; and being satisfied with
that, they went back to the tree where they left their prisoner, but
he was gone, and the two pieces of rope-yarn with which they had
bound him lay just at the foot of the tree.
They were now in as great a concern as before, not knowing
how near the enemy might be, or in what numbers; so they
4
resolved to go away to the place where their wives were, to see if all
was well there. When they came thither, they found the savages
had been in the wood, and very near the place, but had not found
it; for indeed it was inaccessible, by the trees standing so thick,
unless the persons seeking it had been directed by those that
knew it, which these were not While they were here, they had
the comfort of seven of the Spaniards coming to their assistance:
the other ten men, with their servants and Friday's father, were
gone in a body to defend their bower, and the corn and cattle
that were kept there. With the seven Spaniards came one of the
savages, who, as I said, were their prisoners formerly, and with
them also came the savage whom the Englishmen had left bound
hand and foot at the tree; for it seems they came that way, saw
the slaughter of the seven men, and unbound the eighth, and
brought him along with them.
The two Englishmen were now so encouraged, that they could
not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there; but taking five of
the Spaniards and themselves, with four muskets and a pistol
among them, and two stout quarter-staves, away they went in
quest of the savages. And first they came to the tree where the
men lay that had been killed; but it was easy to see that some
more of the savages had been there, for they had attempted to
carry their dead men away, and had dragged two of them a good
way, but had given it over. From thence they advanced to the
first rising ground, where they had stood and seen their camp
destroyed, and where they had the mortification still to see some
of the smoke. They then resolved to go forward towards their
plantation; but a little before they came thither, coming in sight
of the sea-shore, they plainly saw the savages all embarking again
in their canoes.
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their
improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help them
to rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies. Their three
countrymen, who were not yet noted for having the least inclination
to do anything good, yet, as soon as they heard of it, came and
offered their help and assistance, and did very friendly work for
several days to restore their habitations, and make necessaries for
them; and thus, in a little, they were set upon their legs again.
It was five or six months after this, when, on a sudden, they
were invaded with a most formidable fleet of no less than twenty-
ADVENTURES OF
eight canoes, full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great
clubs, wooden swords, and such like engines of war; and they
brought such numbers with them, that, in short, it put all our
people into the utmost consternation. These new invaders,
leaving their canoes at the east end of the island, came ranging
along the shore directly towards the plantation of the two English-
men, to the number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men
could judge. Our army was but small indeed; but that which
was worse, they had not arms for all their number neither. The
whole account, it seems, stood thus :—first, as to men—
17 Spaniards. 5 Englishmen.
1 Old Friday, or Friday's father.
3 Slaves, taken with the women, who proved very faithful. 3 Other slaves, who lived with the Spaniards.
29
To arm these they had—
11 Muskets.
5 Pistols.
3 Fowling-pieces.
5 Muskets, or fowling-pieces, which were taken by me from
the mutinous seamen whom I reduced.
2 Swords.
3 Old halberts.
29
To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusil, but
they had every one a halbert, or a long staff, like a quarter-staff,
with a great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his
side a hatchet; also every one of our men had hatchets. Two of
the women could not be prevailed upon, but they would come into
the fight, and they had bows and arrows which the Spaniards had
taken from the savages when the first action happened, where the
Indians fought with one another.
The Spaniard governor commanded the whole; and William
Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a most
daring bold fellow, commanded under him. The savages came
forward like lions, and our men, which was the worst of their fate,
had no advantage in their situation, only that Will Atkins, who now
proved a most useful fellow, with six men, was planted just behind
325
a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, with orders to let
the first of them pass by, and then fire into the middle of them;
and as soon as he had fired, to make his retreat round a part of
the wood, and so come in behind the Spaniards where they stood,
having a thicket of trees all before them.
When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every way
in heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let about fifty
of them pass by him; then seeing the rest come in a very thick
throng, he ordered three of his men to fire, having loaded their
muskets with six or seven bullets a-piece, about as big as pistol
bullets. How many they killed or wounded they knew not; but
the consternation and surprise was inexpressible among the savages
who were frighted to the last degree, to hear such a dreadful noise,
and see their men killed, and others hurt, but see nobody that did
it; when, in the middle of their fright, William Atkins and his other
three let fly again among the thickest of them; and, in less than a
minute, the first three, being loaded again, gave them a third volley.
Had William Atkins and his men retired as soon as they had
fired, or had the rest of the body been at hand to have poured in
their shot continually, the savages had been effectually routed; for
the terror that was among them came principally from this, namely,
that they were killed by the gods with thunder and lightning, and
could see nobody that hurt them: but William Atkins, staying to
load again, discovered the cheat, and some of the savages, spying
them, came upon them behind, wounded Atkins himself, and killed
one of his fellow Englishmen with their arrows, as they did after-
wards one Spaniard and one of the Indian slaves who came with
the women. Our men, being thus hard laid at, retreated to a rising
ground in the wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys
upon them, retreated also: for the number of the savages was so
great that, though above fifty of them were killed, and more than
so many wounded, yet they came on in the teeth of our men, fear-
less of danger, and shot their arrows like a cloud.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together
upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, would have
had him march, and charge them all together at once: but the
Spaniard replied, "Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded
men fight,—let them alone till morning; all these wounded men
will be stiff and sore with their wounds, and faint with the loss of
blood, and so we shall have the fewer to engage." The advice
ADVENTURES OF
was good; but Will Atkins replied merrily, "That's true, Seignior,
and so shall I too; and that's the reason I would go on while I am
warm."—"Well, Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, "you have
behaved gallantly, and done your part; we will fight for you, if you
cannot come on: but I think it best to stay till morning." So
they waited.
But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the savages
in great disorder about their dead and wounded men, and a great
hurry and noise among them where they lay, they afterwards re-
solved to fall upon them in the night One of the two Englishmen,
in whose quarter it was where the fight began, led them round
between the woods and the sea-side, westward; and, turning short
south, they came so near where the thickest of them lay, that, be-
fore they were seen or heard, eight of them fired in among them,
and did dreadful execution upon them: in half a minute more eight
others fired after them, pouring in their small shot in such a
quantity that abundance were killed and wounded; and all this
while they were not able to see who hurt them, or which way to fly.
The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and
then divided themselves into three bodies, and resolved to fall in
among them all together. The savages stood altogether, but were
in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting
from three quarters together: they would have fought if they had
seen us, but our men gave them no time, but, running up to them,
fired among them three ways, and then fell in with the butt ends
of their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and hatchets; and
laid about them so well that, in a word, they set up a dismal
screaming and howling, flying to save their lives which way soever
they could. Our men were tired with the execution, and killed,
or mortally wounded, in the two fights, about one hundred and
eighty of them; the rest, being frighted out of their wits, scoured
through the woods and over the hills with all the speed that fear
and nimble feet could help them to do, and they got all together
to the sea-side, where they landed and where their canoes lay.
But it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from the sea-ward,
so that it was impossible for them to put off: their canoes were
most of them driven by the surge of the sea so high upon the shore,
that it required infinite toil to get them off; and some of them
were dashed to pieces against the beach, or against one another.
Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little rest that
night; but having refreshed themselves as well as they could, they
resolved to march to that part of the island where the savages were
fled. When they came in view of the place where the remains of
the savages' army lay, there appeared about one hundred still:
their posture was generally sitting upon the ground, with their
knees up towards their mouth, and the head put between the
hands, leaning down upon the knees. The Spaniard governor
ordered two muskets to be fired without ball, to alarm them: this
he did, that by their countenance he might know what to expect
—namely, whether they were still in heart to fight, or were so
heartily beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged, and so he
might manage accordingly.
This stratagem took; for as soon as the savages heard the first gun
and saw the flash of the second, they started upon their feet in the
greatest consternation imaginable; and, as our men advanced, they
ran screaming and yawling away up the hills into the country.
At first our men had much rather the weather had been calm,
and they had all gone away to sea. But Will Atkins proved the
best counsellor in this case. His advice was, to take the advantage
that offered, and clap in between them and their boats, and so
deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any more to plague
the island. He told them they had better have to do with one
hundred men than with one hundred nations; that, as they must
destroy their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all of
them destroyed themselves. In a word, he showed them the
necessity of it so plainly, that they all came into it: so they went
to work immediately with the boats, and getting some dry wood
together from a dead tree, they tried to set some of them on fire;
but they were so wet, that they would scarce burn. However, the
fire so burned the upper part, that it soon made them unfit for swim-
ming in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw what they were
about, some of them came running out of the woods, and coming as
near as they could to our men, kneeled down, and made pitiful
gestures and strange noises, begging to have their boats spared,
and that they would be gone, and never return thither again
But our men were now satisfied that they had no way to preserve
themselves, or to save their colony, but effectually to prevent any
of these people from ever going home again; so that, letting them
know that they should not have any mercy, they fell to work with
their canoes, and destroyed them every one that the storm had
ADVENTURES OF
not destroyed before: at the sight of which the savages raised a
hideous cry in the woods, which our people heard plain enough,
after which they ran about the island like distracted men.
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consider that,
while they made those people thus desperate, they ought to have
kept good guard at the same time upon their plantations; for
though the Indians did not find their main retreat, yet they found
out my plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all
the fences and planting about it; trod all the corn under foot;
tore up the vines and grapes, being just then almost ripe; and did
our men an inestimable damage.
Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet
they were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and
down; for, as they were too nimble of foot for our men when they
found them single, so our men durst not go about single for fear
of being surrounded with their numbers. The first thing they
concluded, when they saw what their circumstances were, was that
they would, if possible, drive them up to the farther part of the
island, south-east, that if any more savages came on shore, they
might not find one another; then that they would daily hunt and
harass them, and kill as many of them as they could come at, till
they had reduced the number; and if they could at last tame them
and bring them to anything, they would give them corn, and teach
them how to plant, and live upon their daily labour. In order to
this they followed them, and so terrified them with their guns, that
in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an Indian, if he did
not hit him, he would fall down for fear; and so dreadfully frighted
they were, that they kept out of sight farther and farther, till at
last our men, following them, and every day almost killing and
wounding some of them, they kept up in the woods and hollow
places so much that it reduced them to the utmost misery for want
of food; and many were afterwards found dead in the woods
without any hurt, but merely starved to death.
When our men found this, it made their hearts relent, andpity moved
them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was the most generous-
minded man that ever I met with in my life; and he proposed, if
possible, to take one of them alive, and bring him to understand
what they meant, so far as to be able to act as interpreter, and to go
among them and see if they might be brought to some conditions
that might be depended upon, to save their lives, and do us no spoiL
329
It was some time before any of them could be taken; but, being
weak and half-starved, one of them was at last surprised, and made
a prisoner. They brought old Friday to him, who told him how
kind the others would be to them all; that they would not only
save their lives, but would give them a part of the island to live in,
and corn to plant, and bread for their present subsistence, provided
they would give satisfaction that they should keep in their own
bounds, and not come beyond them, to injure or prejudice others.
Old Friday bade the fellow go and talk with the rest of his country-
men, and hear what they said to it, assuring them that if they did
not agree immediately, they should all be destroyed
.
The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number
to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer, upon
which twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well armed, and three
Indian slaves, and old Friday, marched to the place where they
were. The three Indian slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, and some rice boiled up to cakes and dried in the sun, and
three live goats; and they were ordered to go to the side of a hill,
where they sat down, ate the provisions very thankfully, and were
the most faithful fellows to their words that could be thought of;
for, except when they came to beg victuals and directions, they
never came out of their bounds, and there they lived when I came
to the island, and I went to see them.
They had taught them to plant corn, make bread, breed tame
goats, and milk them; they wanted nothing but wives, and they
would soon have been a nation. Our men taught them to make
wooden spades, such as I made for myself, and gave among them
twelve hatchets, and three or four knives; and there they lived, the
most subjected innocent creatures that were ever heard of. After
this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity with respect to the
savages, till I came to revisit them, which was in about two years.
Not but now and then some canoes of savages came on shore for
their triumphal, unnatural feasts; bu as they were of several
nations, and perhaps had never heard of those that came before,
or the reason of it, they did not make any search or inquiry after
their countrymen; and if they had, it would have been very hard
for them to have found them out
The islanders are greatly relieved by the arrival of Crusoe, who furnishes them with
tools of all kinds—The Spaniards recount their adventures among the savages
before they came to the island, and describe their joy at being delivered—Will
Atkins, who had been the ringleader of the English sailors in their evil doings,
having shown a better disposition, the Spaniards take him and his companions
into their confidence—The island is divided into three colonies—The French
priest, whom Crusoe had brought out of the ship relieved by him at sea, pro-
poses certain reforms—Conversion of Will Atkins' Indian wife—The English
sailors are married—A religious conversation—Crusoe leaves the island in a
hopeful condition.
HUS, I think, I have given a full account of all that
happened to my return, at least that was worth
notice. My coming was a particular relief to these
people, because we furnished them with knives,
scissors, spades, shovels, pickaxes, and all things
of that kind which they could want With the help of these tools
they were so very handy, that they came at last to build up their
huts, or houses, very handsomely, raddling, or working it up like
basket-work all the way round, which was a very extraordinary
piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd, but was an exceedingly
good fence, as well against heat as against all sorts of vermin ; and
our men were so taken with it, that they got the wild savages to
come and do the like for them: so that when I came to see the
two Englishmen's colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if they
lived all like bees in a hive; and, as for Will Atkins, who was now
become a very industrious, necessary, and sober fellow, he had made
himself such a tent of basket-work as I believe was never seen.
This fellow showed abundance of ingenuity in several things which
he had no knowledge of: he made himself a forge, with a pair of
wooden bellows to blow the fire; he made himself charcoal for his
work, and he formed out of one of the iron crows a middling good

anvil to hammer upon: in this manner he made many things, but
especially hooks, staples, and spikes, bolts and hinges.
As for religion, I don't know that there was anything of that
kind among them; they pretty often, indeed, put one another in
mind that there was a God, by the very common method of seamen,
namely, swearing by His name: nor were their poor, ignorant,
savage wives, much the better for having been married to Christians,
as we must call them; for as they knew very little of God them-
selves, so they were utterly incapable of entering into any discourse
with their wives about a God, or to talk anything to them con-
cerning religion. The utmost of all the improvement which I can
say the wives had made from them was, that they had taught them
to speak English pretty well; and all the children they had, which
were near twenty in all, were taught to speak English, too, from their
first learning to speak, though they at first spoke it in a very broken
manner, like their mothers. The mothers were all a good sort of
well-governed, quiet, laborious women, modest and decent, helpful
to one another, mighty observant and subject to their masters—I
cannot call them husbands—and wanted nothing but to be well in-
structed in the Christian religion, and to be legally married.
Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and
pretty much of my five runagate Englishmen, I must say something
of the Spaniards, who were the main body of the family, and in
whose story there are some incidents also remarkable enough. I
had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances
when they were among the savages: they told me readily that they
had no instances to give of their application or ingenuity in that
country; that they were a poor, miserable, dejected handful ol
people; that if means had been put into their hands, they had yet
so abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk under the weight
of their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing but starving. One
of them, a grave and very sensible man, told me it was remarkable
that Englishmen had a greater presence of mind in their distress
than any people that he ever met with—that their unhappy nation,
and the Portuguese, were the worst men in the world to struggle
with misfortunes; for, that their first step in dangers, after common
efforts are over, was always to despair—lie down under it and die,
without rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies for escape.
They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven
to; how sometimes they were many days without any food at all, the
ADVENTURES Or
island they were upon being inhabited by a sort of savages that
lived more indolent, and for that reason were less supplied with
the necessaries of life than they had reason to believe others were
in the same part of the world; and yet they found that these
savages were less ravenous and voracious than those who had
better supplies of food.
Then they gave me an account how the savages, whom they
lived among, expected them to go out with them into their wars;
but, being without powder and shot, when they came on the
field of battle, they were in a worse condition than the savages
themselves, for they neither had bows nor arrows, nor could they
use those the savages gave them, so that they could do nothing
but stand still and be wounded with arrows, till they came up to
the teeth of their enemy; till at last they found the way to make
themselves large targets of wood, which they covered with skins
of wild beasts,—and these covered them from the arrows of the
savages; that notwithstanding these, they were sometimes in great
danger, and were once five of them knocked down together with
the clubs of the savages, which was the time when one of them
was taken prisoner, that is to say, the Spaniard whom I had
relieved; that at first they thought he had been killed, but when
afterwards they heard he was taken prisoner, they were under the
greatest grief imaginable, and would willingly have all ventured
their lives to have rescued him.
They described, most affectionately, how they were surprised
with joy at the return of their friend and companion in misery,
and how they were astonished at the sight of the relief I sent
them, and at the appearance of loaves of bread, things they had
not seen since their coming to that miserable place. And, after
all, they would have told me something of the joy they were in
at the sight of a boat and pilots to carry them away to the person
and place from whence all these new comforts came; but it was
impossible to express it by words, for their excessive joy driving
them to unbecoming extravagances, they had no way to describe
them but by telling me that they bordered upon lunacy. All
these things made me more sensible of the relation of these poor
men, and more affected with it
Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them,
I must relate the heads of what I did for these people, and the
condition in which I left them. I entered into a serious discourse
333
with the Spaniard, whom I called governor, about their stay in
the island. I told them I came to establish them there, not to
remove them; and then I let them know that I had brought with
me relief of sundry kinds for them; that I had been at a great
charge to supply them with all things necessary, as well for their
convenience as their defence; and that I had such particular per-
sons with me, as well to increase and recruit their number, as by
the particular and necessary employments which they were bred
to, being artifices, to assist them in those things in which at
present they were to seek. They were all together when I talked
thus to them: and before I delivered to them the stores I had
brought, I asked them, one by one, if they had entirely forgot and
buried the first animosities that had been among them, and could
shake hands with one another, and engage in a strict friendship
and union of interest, so that there might be no more misunder-
standings or jealousies. William Atkins, with abundance of frank-
ness and good humour, said they had met with afflictions enough
to make them all sober, and enemies enough to make them all
friends; that, for his part, he was very willing and desirous of
living on terms of entire friendship and union with them, and
would do anything that lay in his power to convince them of it;
and as for going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither
these twenty years.
The Spaniards said they had indeed at first disarmed and
excluded William Atkins and his two countrymen, for their ill
conduct, but that Atkins had behaved himself so bravely in the
great fight they had with the savages, and on several occasions
since, and had showed himself so faithful to, and concerned for,
the general interest of them all, that they had forgotten all that
was past, and thought he merited as much to be trusted with arms,
and supplied with necessaries, as any of them; and that they had
testified their satisfaction in him, by committing the command
to him, next to the governor himself: and as they had an entire
confidence in him and all his countrymen, they most heartily
embraced the occasion of giving me this assurance, that they
would never have any interest separate from one another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we
appointed the next day to dine altogether; and, indeed, we made
a splendid feast, at which we were very innocently merry: I
brought out my cargo of goods, wherein, that there might be no
ADVENTURES OF
dispute about dividing, I showed them that there was sufficient
for them all . Having distributed these among them, I presented
to them the people I had brought with me, particularly the tailor,
the smith, and the two carpenters, all of them most necessary
people; but, above all, my general artificer, than whom they could
not name anything that was more needful to them: and the
tailor, to show his concern for them, went to work immediately,
and made them every one a shirt the first thing he did; and,
which was still more, he taught the women not only how to sew
and stitch, and use the needle, but made them assist to make the
shirts for their husbands, and for all the rest As for the car-
penters, they took in pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things, and
made them clever convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards,
lockers, shelves, and everything they wanted of that kind.
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave every
man a digging spade, a shovel, and a rake, and to every separate
place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad axe, and a saw; always appointing
that, as often as any were broken, or worn out, they should be
supplied, without grudging, out of the general stores that I left
behind. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissors,
and all sorts of tools and iron-work, they had without tale, as they
required; and, for the use of the smith, I left two tons of un-
wrought iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms which I brought them was
such, even to profusion, that they could not but rejoice at them;
for now they could march, as I used to do, with a musket upon
each shoulder, if there was occasion, and were able to fight a thou-
sand savages, if they had but some little advantages of situation,
which also they could not miss of if they had occasion.
I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was
starved to death, and the maid also: she was a sober, well-educated,
religious young woman, and behaved so inoffensively, that every
one gave her a good word. After awhile, seeing things so well
ordered, and in so fine a way of thriving upon my island, and con-
sidering that they had neither business nor acquaintance in the
East Indies, nor reason for taking so long a voyage, both of them
desired I would give them leave to remain on the island, and be
entered among my family, as they called it I agreed to it readily,
and they had a little plot of ground allotted to them, where they
had three tents or houses set up, surrounded with a basket-work,
335
palisaded like Atkin's, and adjoining to his plantation. And now
the other two Englishmen moved their habitation to the same place,
and so the island was divided into three colonies, and no more;
namely, the Spaniards, with old Friday and the first servants, at
my old habitation under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital
city; and never was there such a little city in a wood, and so hid,
I believe, in any part of the world. The other colony was that
of Will Atkins, where there were four Englishmen I had left there,
with their wives and children; three savages that were slaves; the
widow and children of the Englishman that was killed, and the
young man and the maid; and, by the way, we made a wife of
her also before we went away. There were also the two carpenters
and the tailor, whom I brought with me for them; also the smith,
and my other man, whom I called "Jack-of-all-trades," who was
himself as good almost as twenty men, for he was not only a very
ingenious fellow, but a very merry fellow; and before I went away,
we married him to the honest maid that came with the youth in
the ship, whom I mentioned before.
And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say some-
thing of the French ecclesiastic, that I had brought with me out
of the ship's crew whom I took at sea. It is true, this man was a
Roman; but justice demands of me to give him a due character;
and I must say he was a grave, sober, pious, and most religious
person; exact in his life, extensive in his charity, and exemplary
in almost everything he did. The first hour that I began to con-
verse with him, after he had agreed to go with me to the East
Indies, I found reason to delight exceedingly, in his conversation. He gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of adventures
which had befallen him; and particularly this was very remarkable,
namely, that during the voyage he was now engaged in, he had the
misfortune to be five times shipped and unshipped, and never to go
to the place whither any of the ships he was in were at first designed
.
But I shall not make digressions into other men's stories, which
have no relation to my own. I return to what concerns our affairs
in the island. He came to me one morning and told me, with a
very grave countenance, that he had for two or three days desired
an opportunity of some discourse with me, which he hoped might,
in some measure, correspond with my general design, which was
the prosperity of my new colony, and perhaps might put it, at least
more than he yet thought it was, in the way of God's blessing.
ADVENTURES OF
"There are three things," said he, "which, if I am right, must
stand in the way of God's blessing upon your endeavours here, and
which I should rejoice to see removed. First, you have here four
Englishmen, who have fetched women from among the savages,
and have taken them as their wives, and yet are not married to
them after any stated legal manner, as the laws of God and man
require; and therefore are yet living in adultery. To this, sir,"
says he, "I know you will object, that there was no clergyman or
priest of any kind, or of any profession, to perform the ceremony;
nor any pen and ink, or paper, to write down a contract of marriage,
and have it signed between them. And I know also, sir, what the
Spaniard governor has told you—I mean of the agreement that he
obliged them to make when they took these women, namely, that
they should choose them outby consent andkeep separately to them;
which, by the way, is nothing of a marriage, no agreement with the
women as wives, but only an agreement among themselves, to keep
them from quarrelling. Now, sir," says he, "these men may when
they please, or when occasion presents, abandon these women, dis-
own their children, leave them to perish, and take other women
and marry them whilst these are living." And here he added,
with some warmth, "How, sir, is God honoured in this unlawful
liberty? And how shall a blessing succeed your endeavours in
this place, however good in themselves, and however sincere in
your design, while these men, who at present are your subjects,
under your absolute government and dominion, are allowed by
you to live in open adultery?"
I thought to have gotten off with my young priest by telling him
that all that part was done when I was not here, and they had lived
so many years with them now, that it was past remedy. "Sir,"
says he, "asking your pardon for such freedom, you are right in
this—that it being done in your absence, you could not be charged
with that part of the crime. But I beseech you, flatter not your-
self that you are not therefore under an obligation to do your utter-
most now to put an end to it Let the time past lie on whom it
will, all the guilt for the future will lie entirely upon you. Because
it is certainly in your power now to put an end to it, and in
nobody's power but yours."
I imagined that, by putting an end to it, he meant that I should
part them, and not suffer them to live together any longer; and I
said to him I could not do that by any means, for that it would
337
put the whole island in confusion. He seemed surprised that I
should so far mistake him. "No, sir," said he, "I do not mean
that you should separate them, but legally and effectually marry
them now. And, sir, as my way of marrying may not be so easy
to reconcile them to, though it will be as effectual even by your
own laws, so your way may be as well before God, and as valid
among men—I mean by a written contract signed by both man
and woman, and by all the witnesses present; which all the laws
of Europe would decree to be valid"
I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much sincerity
of zeal, besides the unusual impartiality in his discourse as to his
own party or Church, and such a true warmth for the preserving
people that he had no knowledge of or relation to, from trans-
gressing the laws of God . But recollecting what he had said of
marrying them by a written contract, I told him I granted all that
he had said to be just, and on his part very kind; that I would
discourse with the men upon the point when I came to them, and
I knew no reason why they should scruple to let him marry them
all; which I knew would be granted to be as authentic and valid
in England, as if they were married by one of our own clergymen.
He then said that, notwithstanding these English subjects of mine,
as he called them, had lived with these women for almost seven
years, and had taught them to speak English, and even to read it,
and that they were, as he perceived, women of tolerable under-
standing, and capable of instruction, yet they had not to this hour
taught them anything of the Christian religion; no, not so much
as to know that there was a God or a worship, or in what manner
God was to be served,—or that their own idolatry, and worshipping
they knew not whom, was false and absurd . This, he said, was
an unaccountable neglect, and what God would certainly call them
to an account for: and perhaps at last take the work out of their
hands. He spoke this very affectionately and warmly. "I am
persuaded," says he, "had those men lived in the savage country
whence their wives came, the savages would have taken more pains
to have brought them to be idolaters, and to worship the devil,
than any of these men, so far as I can see, has taken with them to
teach them the knowledge of the true God . Now, sir," said he,
"though I do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we
should be all glad to see the devil's servants and the subjects of
his kingdom taught to know the general principles of the Christian
v
ADVENTURES OF
religion,—that they might at least hear of God, and of a Redeemer,
and of the resurrection, and of a future state—things which we all
believe: they had at least been so much nearer coming into the
bosom of the true Church, than they are now in the public profes-
sion of idolatry and devil-worship."
I could hold no longer; I took him in my arms, and embraced
him with an excess of passion. "How far," said I to him, "have
I been from understanding the most essential part of a Christian,
namely, to love the interest of the Christian Church, and the good
of other men's souls! I scarce have known what belongs to being
a Christian." "Oh, sir, do not say so," replied he; "this thing
is not your fault." "No," said I; "but why did I never lay it to
heart as well as you?" "It is not too late yet," said he; "be not
too forward to condemn yourself." "But what can be done now?"
said I; "you see I am going away." "Will you give me leave,"
said he, "to talk with these poor men about it?" "Yes, with all
my heart," said I, "and I will oblige them to give heed to what
you say, too." "As to that," said he, "we must leave them to the
mercy of Christ; but it is our business to assist them, encourage
them, and instruct them."
Then he went on to say, "It is a maxim, sir, that is, or ought
to be, received among all Christians, of what Church or pretended
Church soever, namely, that Christian knowledge ought to be pro-
pagated by all possible means, and on all possible occasions. It
is on this principle that our Church sends missionaries into Persia,
India, and China; and that our clergy, even of the superior sort,
willingly engage in the most hazardous voyage, and the most
dangerous residence among murderers and barbarians, to teach
them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring them over to
embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have an opportunity
here to have six or seven-and-thirty poor savages brought over
from idolatry to the knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer,
that I wonder how you can pass by such an occasion of doing
good, which is really worth the expense of a man's whole life."
He laid it home upon my conscience, whether the blessing of
saving seven-and-thirty souls were not worth my venturing all I
had in the world for? I was not so sensible of that as he was,
and I returned upon him thus: "Why, sir, it is a valuable thing
indeed to be an instrument in God's hands to convert seven-and-
thirty heathens to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an
339
ecclesiastic, and are given over to that work, so that it seems naturally
to fall into the way of your profession, how is it then that you do
not rather offer yourself to undertake it, than press me to it?"
Upon this he faced about, just before me, as he walked along,
and, putting me to a full stop, made me a very low bow: "I most
heartily thank God, and you, sir," says he, "for giving me so
evident a call to so blessed a work; and if you think yourself
discharged from it, and desire me to undertake it, I will most
readily do it, and think it a happy reward for all the hazards and
difficulties of such a broken, disappointed voyage as I have met
with, that I have dropped at last into so glorious a work . But
since you will honour me with putting me into this work, I have
one humble petition to you besides." "What is that?" said I,
"Why," says he, "it is that you will leave your man Friday with
me, to be my interpreter to them, and to assist me; for without
some help I cannot speak to them, or they to me."
I was sensibly touched at his requesting Friday, because I could
not think of parting with him, and that for many reasons. He had
been the companion of my travels: he was not only faithful to
me, but sincerely affectionate to the last degree; and I had
resolved to do something considerable for him if he outlived me,
as it was probable he would. Then I knew that as I had bred
Friday up to be a Protestant, it would quite confound him to
bring him to embrace another profession; that he would never,
while his eyes were open, believe that his old master was a heretic,
and would be damned; and this might in the end ruin the
poor fellow's principles, and so turn him back again to his first
idolatry. I therefore told him I could not say that I was willing
to part with Friday on any account; that I had promised I would
never put him away, and he had promised and engaged to me that
he would never leave me unless I put him away. He seemed
much concerned at this; for he had no rational access to these
poor people, seeing he did not understand one word of their
language, nor they one word of his. To remove this difficulty,
I told him Friday's father had learned Spanish, which I found he
also understood, and he should serve him for an interpreter. So
he was much better satisfied, and nothing could persuade him
but he would stay to endeavour to convert them. But Providence
gave another and a very happy turn to all this.
I sent for the Englishmen all together; began to talk to them
ADVENTURES OF
of the scandalous life they led, and gave them a full account of
the notice the clergyman had already taken of it; and, arguing
how unchristian and irreligious a life it was, I first asked if
they were married men or bachelors? They soon explained their
condition to me, and showed me that two of them were widowers,
and the other three were single men or bachelors. I asked them
with what conscience they could take these women, and call them
their wives, and have so many children by them, and not be married
lawfully to them? They all gave me the answer that I expected—
namely, that there was nobody to marry them; that they agreed
before the governor to keep them as their wives, and they thought, as
things stood with them, they were as legally married as if they had
been married by a parson, and with all the formalities in the world.
I told them, that no doubt they were married in the sight of
God, and were bound in conscience to keep them as their wives;
but that the laws of men being otherwise, they might pretend they
were not married, and so desert the poor women and children
hereafter; and that unless I was assured of their honest intent, I
could do nothing for them; and that unless they would give some
assurances that they would marry the women, I could not think it
was convenient they should continue together as man and wife.
All this passed as I expected ; and they told me, especially Will
Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the rest, that they loved their
wives as well as if they had been born in their own native country,
and would not leave them on any account whatever. The priest
was not with me at that moment, but was not far off. So, to try
him farther, I told him I had a clergyman with me, and if he was
sincere, I would have him married the next morning, and bade him
consider of it, and talk with the rest He said, as for himself, he
need not consider of it at all, for he was very ready to do it, and
believed they would be all willing also. So we parted: I went
back to my clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk with his
companions. Before I went from their quarter, they all came to
me, and told me they had been considering what I had said; that
they were very glad to hear that I had a clergyman in my company,
and they were willing to give me the satisfaction I desired, and to
be formally married as soon as I pleased, for they were far from
desiring to part from their wives, and that they meant nothing but
what was honest when they chose them. So I appointed them to
meet me the next morning, and that in the meantime they should
341
let their wives know the meaning of the marriage law, and that it
was not only to prevent any scandal, but also to oblige them that
they should not forsake them whatever might happen. The women
were easily made sensible of the meaning of the thing, and were
very well satisfied with it; so they failed not to attend all together
at my apartment next morning, where I brought out my clergyman.
When he came to them, he let them know that I had acquainted
him with their circumstances, and with the present design; that he
was very willing to perform that part of his function, and marry
them as I had desired, but that, before he could do it, he must
take the liberty to talk with them. He told them that, in the sight
of all different men, and in the sense of the laws of society, they
had lived all this while in an open adultery; and that it was true
that nothing but the consenting to marry, or effectually separating
them from one another now, could put an end to it; but there was
a difficulty in it too, with respect to the laws of Christian matrimony,
which he was not fully satisfied about, namely, that of marrying
one that is a professed Christian to a savage, an idolater, and a
heathen, one that is not baptized ; and yet that he did not see that
there was time left for it to endeavour to persuade the women to
be baptized, or to profess the name of Christ, whom they had, he
doubted, heard nothing of, and without which they could not be
baptized. He told them he doubted they were but indifferent
Christians themselves; that they had but little knowledge of God or
His ways, and therefore he could not expect that they had said much
to their wives on that head yet; but unless they would promise
him to use their endeavours with their wives to persuade them to
become Christians, and would, as well as they could, instruct them
in the knowledge and belief of God that made them, and to worship
Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he could not marry them.
They heard all this very attentively, and they told me it was
very true what the gentleman had said, that they were but very
indifferent Christians themselves, and that they had never talked
to their wives about religion. "Oh, sir," says Will Atkins, "how
should we teach them religion? Why, we know nothing our-
selves; and besides, sir," said he, "should we go to talk to them
of God, and Jesus Christ, and heaven, and hell, it would be to
make them laugh at us, and ask us what we believe ourselves;
and if we should tell them we believe all the things we speak of
to them, such as of good people going to heaven, and wicked
ADVENTURES OF
people to the devil, they would ask us where we intended to go
ourselves, who believe all this, and yet are such wicked fellows,
as we indeed are: why, sir," said Will, "'tis enough to give them
a surfeit of religion, at first hearing: folks must have some religion
themselves, before they pretend to teach other people." "Why,
truly, Atkins," said I, "I am afraid thou speakest too much truth;"
and with that I let the clergyman know what Atkins had said, for
he was impatient to know. "Oh!" said the priest, "tell him
there is one thing will make him the best minister in the world to
his wife, and that is repentance, for none teach repentance like
true penitents. He wants nothing but to repent, and then he will
be so much the better qualified to instruct his wife: he will then
be able to tell her that there is not only a God, and that He is the
just rewarder of good and evil, but that He is a merciful Being,
and, with infinite goodness and long-suffering, forbears to punish
those that offend—waiting to be gracious, and willing not the death
of a sinner, but rather that he should return and live; that He often
suffers wicked men to go on a long time, and even reserves damna-
tion to the general day of retribution; that it is a clear evidence of
God and of a future state, that righteous men receive not their
reward, or wicked men their punishment, till they come into another
world; and this will lead him to teach his wife the doctrine of the
resurrection, and of the last judgment: let him but repent for him-
self, he will be an excellent preacher of repentance to his wife.
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all the
while, and who, we could easily perceive, was more than ordinarily
affected with it "I knew all this, master," says he, "and a great
deal more; but I han't the impudence to talk thus to my wife,
when God and my own conscience knows, and my wife will be an
undeniable evidence against me, that I have lived as if I had never
heard of God, or a future state, or anything about it: and to talk
of my repenting, alas!" (and with that he fetched a deep sigh, and
I could see that tears stood in his eyes) "'tis past all that with me."
I told the clergyman word for word what he said . The zealous,
affectionate man, could not refrain tears also: but, recovering him-
self, he said to me, "Ask him but one question: Is he easy that it
is too late, or is he troubled, and wishes it were not so?" I put
the question fairly to Atkins; and he answered with a great deal
of passion, "How could any man be easy in a condition that cer-
tainly must end in eternal destruction"
343
The clergyman shook his head, with a great concern in his face,
when I told him all this; but turning quick to me upon it, said,
"If that be his case, you may assure him it is not too late; Christ
will give him repentance, and we that are Christ's servants are com-
manded to preach mercy at all times, in the name of Jesus Christ, to
all those that sincerely repent; so that 'tis never too late to repent."
I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnestness;
but it seemed as if he turned off the discourse to the rest; for he
said to me he would go and have some talk with his wife: so he
went out a while, and we talked to the rest I perceived they were
all stupidly ignorant as to matters of religion—much as I was when
I went rambling away from my father, and yet that there were none
of them backward to hear what had been said; and all of them
seriously promised that they would talk with their wives about it,
and do their endeavour to persuade them to turn Christians.
Upon this discourse, and the men promising to persuade their wives to embrace Christianity, he married the three couple; but
Will Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. After this, the
clergyman waiting a while, was curious to know where Atkins was
gone; and turning to me, says, "I entreat you, sir, let us walk out
here and look; I daresay we shall find this poor man somewhere
or other talking seriously with his wife, and teaching her already
something of religion." I began to be of the same mind; so we
went out together, and I carried him a way which none knew but
myself, and where the trees were so thick set, as that it was not
easy to see through the thicket of leaves, and far harder to see in
than to see out; when, coming to the edge of the wood, I saw
Atkins, and his tawny savage wife, sitting under the shade of a
bush, very eager in discourse. I stopped short till my clergyman
came up to me, and then, having shown him where they were, we
stood and looked very steadily at them a good while. We observed
him very earnest with her, pointing up to the sun, and to every
quarter of the heavens; then down to the earth, then out to the sea;
then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the trees. "Now,"
says my clergyman, "you see my words are made good; the man
preaches to her—mark him—now he is telling her that our God
has made him, and her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the
woods, the trees, &c."—" I believe he is," said I. Immediately we
perceived Will Atkins start up upon his feet, fall down upon his
knees, and lift up both his hands; we supposed he said something,
ADVENTURES OF
but we could not hear him—it was too far off for that; he did not
continue kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down again
by his wife, and talks to her again. We perceived then the woman
very attentive, but whether she said anything or no, we could not
tell. While the poor fellow was upon his knees, I could see the
tears run plentifully down my clergyman's cheeks, and I could hardly
forbear myself; but it was a great affliction to us both that we were
not near enough to hear anything that passed between them.
Well, however, we could come no nearer, for fear of disturbing
them: so we resolved to see an end of this piece of still conversa-
tion, and it spoke loud enough to us without the help of voice.
He sat down again, as I have said, close by her, and talked again
earnestly to her, and two or three times we could see him embrace
her passionately; another time we saw him take out his handker-
chief and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her again, with a kind of
transport very unusual; and after several of these things, we saw
him on a sudden jump up again and lend her his hand to help her
up, when immediately leading her by the hand a step or two, they
both kneeled down together, and continued so about two minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, "St Paul,
St Paul, behold, he prayeth!" This continued about half a quarter
of an hour, and then they walked away too, so that we could see no
more of them in that situation. As Will Atkins and his wife were
gone, our business there was over; so we went back our own way;
and when we came back, we found them waiting to be called in.
I then discovered that Atkins—whose father, it turned out, was a
clergyman—had been himself affected by the words of the priest,
and that he had brought his wife to embrace the knowledge of
Christ and of redemption by Him, with joy, and faith, and with
an affection and a surprising degree of understanding scarce to be
imagined, much less to be expressed; and, at her own request,
she was baptized . As soon as this was over, the priest married
them: and after the marriage was over, he turned himself to Will
Atkins, and, in a very affectionate manner, exhorted him not only
to persevere in that good disposition he was in, but to support the
convictions that were upon him, by a resolution to reform his life;
told him it was in vain to say he repented, if he did not forsake
his crimes; represented to him how God had honoured him with
being the instrument of bringing his wife to the knowledge of the
Christian religion; and that he should be careful he did not dis-
MARIAGE D'ATKINS DEVANT ROBINSON
345
honour the grace of God; and that if he did, he would see the
heathen a better Christian than himself—the savage converted,
and the instrument cast away.
But my clergyman had not done yet; his thoughts hung con-
tinually upon the conversion of the thirty-seven savages, and fain
he would have stayed upon the island to have undertaken it: but I
convinced him, first, that his undertaking was impracticable in
itself; and secondly, that perhaps I could put it into a way of
being done in his absence, to his satisfaction; of which by and by.
Having thus brought the affairs of the island to a narrow com-
pass, I was preparing to go on board the ship, when the young
man whom I had taken out of the famished ship's company came
to me, and told me he understood I had a clergyman with me,
and that I had caused the Englishmen to be married to the savages
whom they called wives; that he had a match too, which he desired
might be finished before I went, between two Christians, which he
hoped would not be disagreeable to me. I was impatient to know
who was the person to be married; upon which he told me it was
my "Jack-of-all-trades," and his maid Susan. I was most agree-
ably surprised when he named the match; for indeed I had thought
it very suitable. The character of the man I have given you already;
and as for the maid, she was a very honest, modest, sober, and reli-
gious woman; had a good share of sense; was agreeable in her per-
son; spoke very handsomely, and to the purpose; was handy and
house-wifely, an excellent manager, and fit, indeed, to have been
governess to the whole island. We married them the same day.
It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my friend,
the clergyman, that the work of converting the savages might per-
haps be set on foot in his absence to his satisfaction, and I told
him that now I thought it was put in a fair way; for the savages,
being thus divided among the Christians, if they would but every
one of them do their part with those which came under their hands,
I hoped it might have a very good effect This they engaged to
do. When I came to Will Atkins's house, I found the young
woman I have mentioned above and Atkins's wife were become
intimates; and this prudent and religious young woman had per-
fected the work Will Atkins had begun; and though it was not
above four days after what I have related, yet the new baptized
savage woman was made such a Christian, as I have seldom heard
of any like her in all my observation or conversation in the world.
I took a Bible in my pocket, and when I came to the tent, or
house, I found the young woman and Atkins's baptized wife had
been discoursing of religion together (for William Atkins told it me
with a great deal of joy). I asked if they were together now? and
he said, Yes; so I went into the house, and he with me, and we
found them together, very earnest in discourse.
We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had a book
among them, though I did not ask, but I put my hand in my
pocket, and pulled out my Bible. "Here," said I to Atkins, "I
have brought you an assistant that, perhaps, you had not before."
The man was so confounded that he was not able to speak for
some time; but, recovering himself, he takes it with both his
hands, and, turning to his wife, "Here, my dear," says he, "did
not I tell you our God, though He lives above, could hear what we
said? Here is the book I prayed for, when you and I kneeled
down under the bush: now God has heard us, and sent it." When
he had said thus, the man fell in such transports of passionate joy
that, between the joy of having it and giving God thanks for it, the
tears ran down his face like a child that was crying. The woman
was surprised, and she firmly believed that God had sent the book
upon her husband's petition. It is true that providentially it was
so, but I believe it would have been no difficult matter at that
time to have persuaded the poor woman that an express messenger
came from heaven to bring that individual book.
But I return to my disposition of things among the people . I
did not think fit to let them know anything of the sloop I had
framed, and which I thought of setting up among them; for had
I set up the sloop, and left it among them, they would, upon very
light disgust, have separated, and gone away from one another; or
perhaps have turned pirates, and so made the island a den of thieves,
instead of a plantation of sober and religious people, as I intended
it to be; nor did I leave the two pieces of brass cannon that I had
on board, or the two quarter-deck guns, for the same reason: I
thought they had enough to qualify them for a defensive war, against
any that should invade them; but I was not to set them up for an
offensive war, or to encourage them to go abroad to attack others.
I reserved the sloop and the guns for their service another way.
I have now done with the island. I left them all in good circum-
stances, and in a flourishing condition, and went on board my ship
again the 5th day of May, having been five-and-twenty days among
them.
Crusoe encounters a fleet of Indian canoes at sea—The savages attack his vessel—
Friday is killed—Crusoe arrives at Brazil, where he gets his sloop set up, and
despatches it, laden with live-stock, to his island—Sets sail for the East Indies—
Touches at Madagascar, where they are well received by the natives—The
crime of one of the sailors is avenged by his death, whereupon the crew com-
mence a general massacre, which Crusoe vainly attempts to stay—On resuming
the voyage, he reproaches the sailors, who at length mutiny, and leave him on
shore at Bengal.

HE next day, giving them a salute of five guns at
parting, we set sail, and arrived at the bay of All
Saints, in the Brazils, in about twenty-two days; meet-
ing nothing remarkable in our passage. But the
third day, towards evening, the sea smooth, and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered towards the land
with something very black, not being able to discover what it was;
but after some time, our chief mate going up the main shrouds a
little way, and looking at them by the perspective, cried out, it was
an army. I could not imagine what he meant by an army, and
spoke a little hastily, calling the fellow a fool, or some such word.
"Nay, sir," says he, "don't be angry, for it is an army and a fleet
too; for I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see
them paddle along, and they are coming towards us, too, apace,
and full of men."
I was a little surprised at this, and so, indeed, was my nephew,
the captain; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in the
island, that he could not tell what to think of it, but said two or
three times we should all be devoured. I must confess, considering
we were becalmed, and the current set strong towards the shore,
I liked it the worse. However, I bade him not to be afraid, but
bring the ship to an anchor, as soon as we came so near as to know
that we must engage them.
ADVENTURES OF
The weather continued calm and they came on apace towards
us; so I gave orders to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails,
—get the boats out, and fasten them, one close by the head, and
the other by the stern, and man them both well, and wait the issue
in that posture: this I did that the men in the boats might be ready,
with sheet and buckets, to put out any fire these savages might
endeavour to fix upon the outside of the ship. In this posture we
lay by for them, and in a little while they came up with us: but
never was such a horrid sight seen by Christians. My mate was
much mistaken in his calculation of their number; the most we
could make of them, when they came up, being about one hundred
and twenty-six canoes, and some of them had sixteen or seventeen
men in them, some more, and the least six or seven.
When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with
wonder and astonishment They came boldly up, however, veiy near to us, and seemed to go about to row round us; but we called
to our men in the boats not to let them come too near them. This
very order brought us to an engagement with them without our
designing it; for five or six of their large canoes came so near our
long-boat, that our men beckoned with their hands to them to keep
back, which they understood very well, and went back; but at
their retreat about five hundred arrows came on board us from
those boats, and one of our men in the long-boat was very much
wounded . I called to them not to fire by any means; but we
handed down some deal boards into the boat, and the carpenter
presently set up a kind of a fence, like waist boards, to cover them
from the arrows of the savages, if they should shoot again.
About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a body astern
of us, and I easily found they were some of my old friends, the
same sort of savages that I had been used to engage with: in a
little time more they rowed somewhat farther out to sea, till they
came directly broadside with us, and then rowed down straight
upon us, till they came so near, that they could hear us speak.
Upon this, I ordered all my men to keep close, and make all our
guns ready; but being so near as to be within hearing, I made
Friday go out upon the deck, and call out aloud to them in his
language, to know what they meant, which accordingly he did
.
Whether they understood him or not, that I know not; but imme-
diately Friday cried out they were going to shoot, and unhappily for
him, they let fly about three hundred of their arrows, and to my inex-
pressible grief killed poor Friday, no other man being in their sight
The poor fellow was shot with no less than three arrows, and about
three more fell very nigh him; such unlucky marksmen they were!
I was so enraged at the loss of my old servant, the companion of
all my sorrows and solitudes, that I immediately ordered five guns to
be loaded with small shot, and four with great, and gave them such
a broadside as they had never had in their lives before, to be sure.
They were not above half a cable's length off when we fired. I
can neither tell how many we killed, nor how many we wounded;
but sure such a fright and hurry never was seen among such a
multitude; there were thirteen or fourteen of their canoes split
and overset in all, and the men all set a-swimming; the rest, frighted
out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could, taking but
little care to save those whose boats were split or spoiled with our
shot; so I suppose that they were many of them lost Our men
took up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour after
they were all gone; nor did we ever see the rest any more, for a
breeze of wind springing up the same evening, we weighed and
set sail for the Brazils.
Our prisoner was so sullen that he would neither eat nor speak;
and we all fancied he would starve himself to death. But I took
a way to cure him; for I made them take him and turn him into
the longboat, and make him believe they would toss him into the
sea again, and so leave him where they found him, if he would
not speak: nor would that do, but they really did throw him into
the sea, and came away from him; and then he followed them,
for he swam like a cork, and called to them in his tongue, though
they knew not one word of what he said . However, at last they
took him in again, and then he began to be more tractable. In
time our men taught him some English, and he told us that they
were going with their kings to fight a great battle. When he said
kings, we asked him how many kings? He said, "There were
five nation, and that they all joined to go against two nation."
We asked him, "What made them come up to us?" He said,
"To makee te great wonder look." Where it is to be observed,
that all those natives, as also those of Africa, when they learn Eng-
lish, they also add two ^s at the end of the words where we use
one, and place the accent upon the last of them—as makee, takee,
and the like; and we could not break them off it,—nay I could
hardly make Friday leave it off, though at last he did.
And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my
last leave of him—poor honest Friday! We buried him with all
decency and solemnity possible, by putting him into a coffin, and
throwing him into the sea; and I caused them to fire eleven guns
for him: and so ended the life of the most grateful, faithful, honest,
and most affectionate servant that ever man had.
We now went away with a fair wind for Brazil, and in about
twelve days' time, we made land in the latitude of five degrees
south of the Line, being the north-eastermost land of all that part
of America. We kept on south-by-east, in sight of the shore, four
days, when we made the Cape St Augustine, and in three days
came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, the old place of my
deliverance, from whence came both my good and evil fate.
It was with great difficulty that we were admitted to hold the
least correspondence on shore. Not my partner himself, who was
alive, and made a great figure among them, not my two merchant
trustees, nor the fame of my wonderful preservation in the island,
could obtain me that favour; but my partner, remembering that I
had given five hundred moidores to the prior of the monastery of
the Augustines, and three hundred and seventy-two to the poor,
went to the monastery, and obliged the prior that then was to go
to the governor and beg leave for me presently, with the captain,
and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no
more,—and this upon condition absolutely capitulated for, that
we should not offer to land any goods out of the ship, or to carry
any person away without licence.
They were so strict with us as to landing any goods, that it was
with extreme difficulty that I got on shore three bales of English
goods, such as fine broad-cloths, stuffs, and some linen, which I
had brought for a present to my partner. He was a very generous,
broad-hearted man, though, like me, he came from little at first;
and though he knew not that I had the least design of giving him
anything, he sent me on board a present of fresh provisions, wine,
and sweetmeats, worth above thirty moidores, including some
tobacco, and three or four fine medals in gold . But I was even
with him in my present, which, as I have said, consisted of fine
broad-cloths, English stuffs, lace, and fine Hollands. Also, I
delivered him about the value of one hundred pounds sterling, in
the same goods, for other uses; and I obliged him to set up the
sloop which I had brought with me from England, as I have said,
for the use of my colony, in order to send the refreshments I
intended to my plantation.
Accordingly he got hands and finished the sloop in a very few
days, for she was already framed; and I gave the master of her
such instructions as he could not miss the place; nor did he miss
it, as I had an account from my partner afterwards. I got him
soon loaded with the small cargo I had sent them; and one of
our seamen, that had been on shore with me there, offered to go
with the sloop, and settle there, upon my letter to the governor
Spaniard to allot him a sufficient quantity of land for a plantation,
and giving him some clothes, and tools for his planting work,
which he said he understood, having been an old planter in
Maryland, and a buccaneer into the bargain. I encouraged the
fellow by granting all he desired; and, as an addition, I gave him
the savage whom we had taken prisoner of war to be his slave,
and ordered the governor Spaniard to give him his share of every-
thing he wanted, with the rest
When we came to fit this man out, my old partner told me
there was a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter of his
acquaintance, who had fallen into the displeasure of the church, and
had been obliged to conceal himself for fear of the Inquisition;
that he would be very glad of such an opportunity to make his
escape, with his wife and two daughters; and if I would let them
go to the island, and allot them a plantation, he would give them
a small stock to begin with,—for the officers of the Inquisition
had seized all his effects and estate. I granted this presently, and
joined my Englishman with them; and we concealed the man and
his wife and daughters on board our ship till the sloop put out to
go to sea; and then (having put all their goods on board some
time before), we put them on board the sloop after she was got
out of the bay.
Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new partner; and
their stock, indeed, was much alike rich in tools and in prepara-
tions for a farm: but nothing to begin with, but as above. How-
ever, they carried over with them (which was worth all the rest)
some materials for planting sugar-canes, with some plants of canes,
which he (I mean the Portugal man) understood very well. Among
the rest of the supplies for my tenants in the island, I sent them, by
this sloop, three milch cows and five calves, about twenty-two hogs
among them, three sows big with pig, and two mares and a horse.
35a
ADVENTURES OF
For my Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged three
Portugal women to go; and recommended it to them to marry
them, and use them kindly. I could have procured more women,
but I remembered that the poor persecuted man had two daughters,
and there were but five of the Spaniards that wanted; the rest
had wives of their own, though in another country.
All this cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, very
welcome to my old inhabitants, who were now (with this addition)
between sixty and seventy people, besides little children, of which
there were a great many. I found letters at London from them
all, by way of Lisbon, when I came back to England, being sent
back to the Brazils by this sloop.
I have now done with my island, and all manner of discourse
about it; and whoever reads the rest of my memorandums, would
do well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read
only of the follies of an old man, not warned by his own harms,
much less by those of other men, to beware of the like; not cooled
by almost forty years' misery and disappointments; not satisfied
with prosperity beyond expectations; not made cautious by afflic-
tion and distress beyond imitation.
I had no more business to go to the East Indies, than a man
at full liberty, and having committed no crime, has to go to the
turnkey at Newgate, and desire him to lock him up among the
prisoners there, and starve him. Had I taken a small vessel from
England, and gone directly to the island—had I loaded her, as I
did the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the plantation,
and for my people—took a patent for the government there, to
have secured my property, in subjection only to that of England,
which, to be sure, I might have obtained,—had I done this, and
stayed there myself, I had at least acted like a man of common
sense: but I was possessed with a wandering spirit, scorned all
advantages, pleased myself with being the patron of these people
I had placed there, and doing for them in a kind of haughty,
majestic way, like an old patriarchal monarch. But I never so
much as pretended to plant in the name of any government or
nation, or to acknowledge any prince, or to call my people subjects
to any one nation more than another,—nay, I never so much as
gave the place a name, but left it as I found it, belonging to no
man, and the people under no discipline or government but my
own. I rambled from them and came thither no more: the lust
3S3
letters I had from any of them were by my partner's means, who
sent me word, though I had not the letter till five years after it
was written, that they went on but poorly, were malcontent with
their long stay there—that Will Atkins was dead—that five of the
Spaniards were come away—and that they begged of him to write
to me to think of the promise I had made to fetch them away,
that they might see their own country again before they died.
But I was gone a wild-goose chase, indeed, and they who will
have any more of me, must be content to follow me through a
new variety of follies, hardships, and wild adventures.
But it is no time now to enlarge any farther upon the reason or
absurdity of my own conduct I was embarked for the voyage,
and the voyage I went I shall only add here, that my honest
and truly pious clergyman left me here: a ship being ready to go
to Lisbon, he asked me leave to go thither; being still, as he
observed, bound never to finish any voyage he began. Had I
gone with him, I had never had so many things to be thankful
for, and you had never heard of the second part of the Travels
and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe; so I must leave here the
fruitless exclaiming at myself, and go on with my voyage.
From the Brazils, we made directly away over the Atlantic Sea
to the Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerably good voyage, our
course generally south-east; now and then a storm, and some con-
trary winds. But my disasters at sea were at an end—my future
rubs and cross events were to befal me on shore. We made no
stay at the Cape longer than was needful to take in fresh water,
but made the best of our way for the coast of Coromandel . We
touched first at the island of Madagascar, where we fared very
well with them a while. It happened one evening when we went
on shore, that a greater number of their people came down than
usual, but all was very friendly and civil, and all was quiet; and
we made us a little tent, or hut, of some boughs of trees, and lay
on shore all that night I was not so well satisfied to lie on shore
as the rest; and the boat lying at an anchor about a stone's cast
from the land, with two men in her to take care of her, I made
one of them come on shore, and, getting some boughs of trees to
cover us also in the boat, I spread the sail on the bottom of the
boat, and lay on board under the cover of the branches of the
trees, all night About two o'clock in the morning, we heard one
of our men make a terrible noise on the shore, calling out for
z
ADVENTURES OF
God's sake to bring the boat in, and come and help them, for they
were all like to be murdered; at the same time I heard the firing
of five muskets, which was the number of the guns they had, and
that three times over. Rousing immediately from sleep with the
noise, I caused the boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with three
fusils we had on board, to land and assist our mea Our men
were but nine in all, and only five had fusils; the rest, indeed,
had pistols and swords, but they were of small use to them. We
took up seven of our men, three of them being very ill wounded;
and while we stood in the boat to take our men in, we were in as
much danger as they were in on shore; for the people poured
their arrows in upon us so thick, that we were fain to barricade
the side of the boat up with the benches, and two or three loose
boards which we had in the boat
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh our
anchor, or set up our sail, because we must needs stand up in the
boat, and they were as sure to hit us as we were to hit a bird in a
tree with small shot We made signals of distress to the ship, and
my nephew, the captain, hearing our firing, and by glasses per-
ceiving the posture we lay in, and that we fired towards the shore,
pretty well understood us; and, weighing anchor with all speed,
he stood as near the shore as he durst with the ship, and then sent
another boat with ten hands in her to assist us. One of the men,
taking the end of a tow line in his hand, swam on board us, and
made the line fast to the boat, upon which we slipt our little cable,
and leaving our anchor behind, they towed us out of the reach of
the arrows. As soon as we were got from between the ship and
the shore, that she could lay her side to the shore, we ran along
just by them, and we poured in a broadside among them, loaded
with pieces of iron and lead, small bullets, and such stuff, besides
the great shot, which made a terrible havoc among them.
When we were got on board, our supercargo, who had been
often in those parts, said he was sure the inhabitants would not
have touched us if we had not done something to provoke them
to it. At length it came out, namely, that an old woman, who
had come to sell us some milk, had brought it within our poles,
with a young woman with her, who also brought some roots or
herbs; and while the old woman was selling us the milk, one of
our men offered some rudeness to the girl that was with her, at
which the old woman made a great noise. However, the seaman
355
would not quit his prize, but carried her out of the old woman's
sight among the trees, it being almost dark. The old woman went
away without her, and, as we suppose, made an outcry among
the people she came from,—who, upon notice, raised this great
army upon us in three or four hours; and it was great odds but
we had been all destroyed.
One of our men was killed with a lance that was thrown at him
just at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the tent we
had made; the rest came off free, all but the fellow who was the
occasion of all the mischief, who paid dear enough for his black
mistress. We could not hear what became of him a great while:
we lay upon the shore two days after, though the wind presented,
and made signals for him; made our boat sail up shore and down
shore several leagues, but in vain.
I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on shore
once more. It was the third night after the action, that I had a
great mind to learn, if I could by any means, what mischief we
had done, and how the game stood on the Indian side. We took
with us twenty stout fellows as any in the ship, besides the super-
cargo, and myself; and we landed two hours before midnight, at
the same place where the Indians stood drawn up the evening
before. We divided our men into two companies, and we marched
up, one body at a distance from the other, to the field of battle.
At first we could see nothing, it being very dark; but by and by
our boatswain, that led the first party, stumbled and fell over a
dead body. Here we concluded to halt till the moon began to
rise, and then we could easily discern the havoc we had made
among them. We told two-and-thirty bodies upon the ground,
whereof two were not quite dead. When we had made, as I
thought, a full discovery of all we could come at the knowledge
of, I was for going on board again; but the boatswain and his
party sent me word, that they were resolved to make a visit to the
Indian town, where it might be they might find Thomas Jeffrys
there—that was the man's name we had lost. So away they went,
and though the attempt was desperate, and such as none but
madmen would have gone about, yet, to give them their due, they
went about it warily as well as boldly. Their chief design was
plunder; but a circumstance, which none of them'were aware of,
set them on fire with revenge. When they came to the few Indian
houses, which they thought had been the town, they were under
ADVENTURES OF
a great disappointment; for there were not above twelve or thirteen
houses. However, they resolved to leave those houses, and look
for the town as well as they could. They went on a little way,
and found a cow tied to a tree, and they untied her, and the cow
went on before them directly to the town, which consisted of above
two hundred houses, or huts. Here they found all profoundly
secure as sleep and a country that had never seen an enemy of
that kind could make them. Upon this, they resolved to divide
themselves into three bodies, and to set three houses on fire in
three parts of the town, and as the men came out, to seize them
and bind them. While they were animating one another to the
work, three of them that were a little before the rest, called out
aloud, and told them they had found Thomas Jeffrys; they all ran
up to the place, and so it was indeed, for there they found the poor
fellow hanged up naked by one arm, and his throat cut. There
was an Indian house just by the tree, where they found sixteen or
seventeen of the principal Indians. The sight of their poor mangled
comrade so enraged them, that they swore to one another they
would be revenged, and to work they went immediately. In a
quarter of an hour they set the town on fire in four or five places,
and as soon as the fire began to blaze, the poor frighted creatures
began to rush out to save their lives, but met with their fate in
the attempt.
My nephew, the captain, who was roused by his men, seeing
such a fire, was very uneasy, not knowing what the matter was.
A thousand thoughts oppressed his mind concerning me and the
supercargo, what should become of us; and at last he takes another
boat, and with thirteen men and himself, comes on shore to me.
He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the boat with
no more than two men, and he was impatient to know what was
doing, for the noise continued, and the flame increased. In a
word, the captain told me he would go and help his men, let what
would come, and so away went he. Nor was I any more able to
stay behind; so, in short, the captain ordered two men to row
back the pinnace, and fetch twelve men more from the ship, leav-
ing the long boat at an anchor; and that when they came back,
six men should keep the two boats, and six more come after us,
so that he left only sixteen men in the ship.
Being now on the march, we felt little of the ground we trod
on; and, being guided by the fire, we kept no path, but went
3S7
directly to the place of the flame. If the noise of the guns was
surprising to us before, the cries of the poor people were now quite
of another nature, and filled us with horror. However, we went
on, and at length came to the town, though there was no entering
the streets of it for the fire. The first object that we met with was
the ruins of a hut, or house; and just before it, lay four men and
three women killed; and, as we thought, one or two more lay in
the heap among the fire. In short, these were such instances of
a rage altogether barbarous, and of a fury something beyond what
was human, that we thought it impossible our men could be guilty
of it. But this was not all; we saw the fire increased forward, and
the cry went on just as the fire went on, so that we were in the
utmost confusion. We advanced a little way farther, and beheld,
to our astonishment, three women naked, crying in a most dreadful
manner, and flying as if they had indeed had wings, and after them
sixteen or seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and conster-
nation, with three of our English butchers—for I can call them no
better—in the rear, who, when they could overtake them, fired in
among them, and one that was killed by their shot fell down in
our sight. When the rest saw us, believing us to be their enemies,
and that we would murder them as well as those that pursued
them, they set up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women,
and two of them fell down, as if already dead, with the fright.
My very soul shrank within me, and my blood ran chill in my
veins, when I saw this; and I believe had the three English sailors
that pursued them come on, I had made our men kill them all.
However, we took some ways to let the poor flying creatures know
that we would not hurt them, and immediately they came up to
us, and kneeling down, with their hands lifted up, made piteous
lamentations to us to save them, which we let them know we would
do: whereupon they kept all together in a huddle close behind us
for protection. I left my men drawn up together—charging them
to hurt nobody, but if possible to get at some of our people and
see what devil it was possessed them, and what they intended to
do; and, in a word, to command them off—and went among those
flying people, taking only two of our men with me. And there
was indeed a piteous spectacle among them: some of them had
their feet terribly burnt with trampling and running through the
fire, others their hands burnt; one of the women had fallen down
in the fire, and was almost burnt to death before she could get
ADVENTURES OF
out again; two or three of the men had cuts in their backs and
thighs, from our men pursuing, and another was shot through the
body, and died while I was there.
I would fain have learnt what the occasion of all this was, but
I could not understand one word they said, though by signs I per-
ceived that some of them knew not what was the occasion them-
selves. I went back to my own men: I told them my resolution,
and commanded them to follow me; when, in the very moment,
came four of our men, with the boatswain at their head, covered
with blood and dust, when our men hallooed to them as loud as
they could halloo, and with much ado one of them made them
hear. As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo, like a
shout of triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come.
"Captain," says he, "noble captain, I am glad you are come; we
have not half done yet I Villains! hell-hound dogs! I will kill
as many of them as poor Tom has hairs upon his head . We have
sworn to spare none of them; we will root out the very name of
them from the earth." Raising my voice, that I might silence him
a little, "Barbarous dog!" said I, "what are you doing? I won't
have one creature touched more upon pain of death. I charge
you upon your life to stop your hands, and stand still here, or you
are a dead man this minute."
"Why, sir," says he, "do you know what you do, or what they
have done? If you want a reason for what we have done, come
hither;" and with that he showed me the poor fellow hanging
upon a tree with his throat cut.
I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time should
have been forward enough; but I thought they had carried their
rage too far, and thought of Jacob's words to his sons Simeon and
Levi, "Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath,
for it was cruel." But I had now a new task upon my hands, for,
when the men I carried with me saw the sight as I had done, I
had as much to do to restrain them as I should have had with the
others; nay, my nephew himself fell in with them, and told me,
in their hearing, that he was only concerned for fear of the men
being overpowered. Upon these words away ran eight of my men
with the boatswain and his crew, to complete their bloody work;
and I, seeing it quite out of my power to restrain them, came away
pensive and sad, for I could not bear the sight
I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and two
359
men, and with these I walked back to the boats. Immediately I
took the pinnace and went aboard, and sent her back to assist the
men in what might happen. By the time the men got to the shore
again with the pinnace, our men began to appear; they came
dropping in some and some, not in two bodies, and in form, as
they went out, but all in heaps, straggling here and there in such
a manner that a small force of resolute men might have cut them
all off. But the dread of them was upon the whole country. The
people were amazed and surprised, and so frighted, that I believe a
hundred of them would have fled at the sight of but five of our men.
I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and indeed with
all the men, in my mind, but with him in particular, as prompting
rather than cooling the rage of his men in so bloody and cruel an
enterprise. The next day we set sail. I always, after that time,
told our men God would blast the voyage, for I looked upon the
blood they shed that night to be murder in them. The boatswain
defended this quarrel when we were afterwards on board. He
said it was true that we seemed to break the truce, but really had
not, and that the war was begun the night before by the natives
themselves, who had shot at us, and killed one of our men without
any just provocation; so that, as we were in a capacity to fight
them, we might also be in a capacity to do ourselves justice upon
them in an extraordinary manner.
We were now bound to the gulf of Persia, and from thence to
the coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat; but the chief
of the supercargo's design lay at the Bay of Bengal. The first
disaster that befel us was in the Gulf of Persia, where five of our
men, venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the Gulf, were
surrounded by the Arabs, and either all killed or carried away into
slavery. I began to upbraid them with the just retribution to
Heaven in this case; but the boatswain very warmly told me he
thought I went farther in my censures than I could show any
warrant for in Scripture, and referred to the thirteenth of St Luke,
verse 4th, where our Saviour intimates that those men on whom
the tower of Siloam fell were not sinners above all the Galileans:
but that which indeed put me to silence in this case was, that
none of these five men, who were now lost, were of the number
of those who went on shore to the massacre of Madagascar.
But my frequent preaching to them on this subject had worse
consequences than I expected; and the boatswain, who had been
the head of the attempt, came up boldly to me one time, and told
me that, unless I would resolve to have done with it, and also
not to concern myself farther with him, or any of his affairs, he
would leave the ship, for he did not think it was safe to sail
with me among them.
I told him that I did confess I had all along opposed the mas-
sacre of Madagascar, for such I would always call it; and that I was
a considerable owner of the ship, and in that claim I conceived
I had a right to speak, even farther than I had yet done, and
would not be accountable to him or any one else. He made but
little reply to me at that time, and I thought that affair had been
over. We were at this time in the road to Bengal: and being
willing to see the place, I went on shore with the supercargo, in
the ship's boat, to divert myself; and towards evening was prepar-
ing to go on board, when one of the men came to me, and told
me he would not have me trouble myself to come down to the
boat, for they had orders not to carry me on board. I immedi-
ately went and found out the supercargo and told him the story,
and entreated him to go immediately on board the ship in an
Indian boat and acquaint the captain of it. But I might have
spared this intelligence, for before I had spoken to him on shore,
the matter was effected on board: the boatswain, the gunner, the
carpenter, and, in a word, all the inferior officers, as soon as I
was gone off in the boat, came up to the quarter deck and desired
to speak with the captain; and there the boatswain, making a
long harangue, told the captain in a few words that, as I was now
gone peaceably on shore, they were loath to use any violence with
me,—which, if I had not gone on shore, they would otherwise
have done, to oblige me to have gone. They therefore thought
fit to tell him that, as they shipped themselves to serve in the ship
under his command, they would perform it faithfully; but, if I
would not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it, they
would all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him.
When my nephew, the captain, who came to me on shore, told
me this, I said he should not be concerned at all, for I would stay
on shore: I only desired he would send me all my necessary
things on shore, and leave me a sufficient sum of money, and I
would find my way to England as well as I could. So the matter
was over in a very few hours; the men returned to their duty,
and I began to consider what course I should steer.
At Bengal, Crusoe meets with an English merchant, with whom he enters into
partnership, and makes a voyage to Siam and China—They return to Bengal,
where they purchase a Dutch coasting vessel, which they afterwards discover
the crew had run away with—Their new purchase brings them into danger,
as they are mistaken for pirates, and chased by English and Dutch boats—
They beat off their pursuers, and set sail for Cochin China, where they have
an encounter with the natives—They arrive at Quinchang, where they part from
their ship—Crusoe visits Nankin and Pekin, and travels with a caravan of
merchants through Tartary and Russia—Winters in Siberia—Sails from Arch-
angel to Hamburg—Arrives in England, after an absence of nearly eleven
years, and determines to wander no more.

WAS now alone in the remotest part of the world,
for I was near three thousand leagues, by sea, farther
off from England than I was at my island; only, it
is true, I might travel here, by land, over the Great
Mogul's country to Surat; might go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the Gulf of Persia, and from thence might
take the way of the caravans, over the deserts of Arabia to Aleppo
and Scanderoon, and from thence by sea again to Italy, and so
overland into France. I had another way before me, which was
to wait for some English ships, which were coming to Bengal
from Achin, on the island of Sumatra, and get passage on
board them for England.
Here I had the particular pleasure, speaking by contrarieties,
to see the ship set sail without me—a treatment, I think, a man
in my circumstances scarce ever met with, except from pirates run-
ning away with the ship, and setting those that would not agree
with their villany on shore. However, my nephew left me two
servants, or rather, one companion and one servant: the first was
clerk to the purser, whom he engaged to go with me; and the
other was his own servant. I took me also a good lodging in the
ADVENTURES OF
house of an English woman, where several merchants lodged,
some French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one Englishman.
After a long stay here, the English merchant, who lodged with
me, and with whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance,
came to me one morning. "Countryman," says he, "I have a
project to communicate to you, which, as it suits with my thoughts,
may, for aught I know, suit with yours also, when you shall have
thoroughly considered it.
"If you will put a thousand pounds to my thousand pounds, we
will hire a ship here, the first we can get to our minds. You shall
be captain, I'll be merchant, and we will go a trading voyage to
China; for what should we stand still for? The whole world is
in motion; all the creatures of God, heavenly bodies and earthly,
are busy and diligent: why should we be idle? There are no
drones," says he, "living in the world but men: why should we
be of that number?" I liked this proposal very well; and the
more because it seemed to be expressed with so much good-will,
and in so friendly a manner. It was, however, some time before
we could get a ship to our mind; and, when we got a vessel, it
was not easy to get English sailors. However, after some time
we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a Dutch car-
penter, and three Portuguese foremastmen: with these we found
we could do well enough, having Indian seamen, such as they
are, to make up.
We made the voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, first;
and from thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares
for opium, and some for arrack,—the first a commodity which
bears a great price among the Chinese, and which, at that time,
was very much wanted there. In a word, we went up to Susham,
made a very great voyage, were eight months out, and returned to
Bengal. I got so much money by the first adventure, and such
an insight into the method of getting more, that, had I been twenty
years younger, I should have been tempted to have stayed here,
and sought no farther for making my fortune; but what was all
this to a man on the wrong side of threescore, that was rich enough,
and came abroad more in obedience to a restless desire of seeing
the world than a covetous desire of getting on in it? I was come
into a part of the world which I never was in before—and that
part, in particular, which I had heard much of—and was resolved
to see as much of it as I could.
363
But my fellow-traveller and I had different notions. My new
friend kept himself to the nature of the thing, and would have been
content to have gone, like a carrier's horse, always to the same inn,
backward and forward, provided he could, as he called it, find
his account in it: on the other hand, mine, as old as I was, was
the notion of a mad rambling boy, that never cares to see a thing
twice over. But this was not all. I had a kind of impatience
upon me to be nearer home, and yet the most unsettled resolution
imaginable which way to go. In the interval of these consulta-
tions, my friend, who was always on the search for business, proposed another voyage to me, namely, among the Spice Islands; and
to bring home a load of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts.
We were not long in preparing for this voyage, which we made very
successfully, touching at Borneo, and several islands whose names
I do not remember, and came home in about five months. We
sold our spice, which was chiefly cloves, and some nutmegs, to the
Persian merchants, who carried them away for the Gulf; and, mak-
ing near five of one, we really got a great deal of money.
A little while after this there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia;
she was a coaster, and of about two hundred tons burden: the
men, as they pretended, having been so sickly that the captain
had not men enough to go to sea, he lay by at Bengal, and gave
public notice that he would sell his ship. This came to my ears
before my new partner heard of it; and I had a great mind to
buy it So I went home to him, and told him of it: he con-
sidered a while, for he was no rash man neither; but, musing
some time, he replied, "She is a little too big; but, however, we
will have her." Accordingly, we bought the ship, and took pos-
session; when we had done so, we resolved to entertain the men,
if we could, to join them with those we had, for the pursuing our
business; but, on a sudden—they not having received their wages,
but their share of the money, as we afterwards learnt—not one of
them was to be found. A few days after, I came to know what
sort of fellows they were; for, in short, their history was—that
this man they called captain was the gunner only, not the com-
mander; they had been a trading voyage, in which they were
attacked on shore by some of the Malaccans, who had killed the
captain and three of his men; and, after the captain was killed,
these men had run away with the ship, and had brought her in at
the Bay of Bengal, leaving the mate and five men more on shore.
ADVENTURES OF
We picked up some English seamen here after this, and some
Dutch, and we now resolved for a second voyage for cloves, &c., among the Philippine and Molucca isles; and, in short, I spent,
from first to last, six years in this country, trading from port to
port, backward and forward, and with very good success; and
was now, the last year, with my partner, going in the ship above
mentioned, on a voyage to China, but designing first to goto Siam,
to buy rice. In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to
beat up and down a great while in the straits of Malacca, and
among the islands, we were no sooner got clear of those difficult
seas, but we found our ship had sprung a leak, and we were not
able to find out where it was. This forced us to make for some
port; and my partner, who knew the country better than I did,
directed the captain to put into the river of Cambodia; for I had
made the English mate, one Mr. Thomson, captain, not being
willing to take the charge of the ship upon myself.
While we were here, and going often on shore for refreshment,
there comes to me one day an Englishman, who was, it seems, a
gunner's mate on board an English East India ship, which rode
in the same river. "Sir," says he, "I have something to tell you
that very nearly concerns you."—" If it very nearly concerns me,"
said I, "and not yourself, what moves you to tell it me ?"—" I
am moved," said he, "by the imminent danger you are in; and
for aught I see, you have no knowledge of it."—" I know no
danger I am in," said I, "but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot
find it out; but I propose to lay her aground to-morrow, to see if
I can find it."—" But, sir," says he, "leaky or not leaky, find it or
not find it, you will be wiser than to lay your ship on shore to
morrow, when you hear what I have to say to you. The town of
Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river, and there are
two large English ships about five leagues on this side, and three
Dutch ? "—" Well," said I, "and what is that to me ? "—" Well,
sir," says he, "if you do not put to sea immediately, you will be
attacked by five longboats full of men; and, perhaps, if you are
taken, you will be hanged for a pirate, and the particulars be
examined into afterwards. I suppose you know well enough that
you were with this ship at Sumatra; that there your captain was
murdered by the Malaccans, with three of his men; and that you,
or some of those that were on board with you, ran away with the
ship, and are since turned PIRATES. This is the sum of the story
36S
and you will all be seized as pirates, and executed with very little
ceremony, if they get you in their power. If you have any regard
for your life, and the lives of all your men, put out to sea, without
fail, at high water."—" Well," said I, "you have been very kind
in this: what shall I do for you to make you amends? "—"Sir,"
says he, "I have nineteen months' pay due to me on board the
ship , which I came out of England in, and the Dutchman
that is with me has seven months' pay due to him; if you will
make good our pay to us, we will go along with you; if you find
nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but if we do convince
you that we have saved your life, and the ship, and the lives of
all the men in her, we will leave the rest to you."
I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and
the two men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's side, my
partner, who was on board, came on the quarter-deck, and called
to me with a great deal of joy, "O ho! O ho ! we have stopped
the leak !"—" Say you so?" said I; "thank God; but weigh the
anchor, then, immediately." He was surprised; but called the
captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to be got up, and
we stood out to sea: then I called him into the cabin, and told
him the story at large. Presently a seaman comes to the cabin
door, and calls out to us that the captain bade him tell us we were
chased. "Chased!" said I, "by whom, and by what ?"—" By
five sloops, or boats," said the fellow, "full of men." We made
ready for fight, but all this while kept out to sea, with wind enough,
and could see five large longboats, following us, with all the sail
they could make. Two of these boats, which we could see were
English, had outsailed the rest, and gained upon us considerably;
upon which we fired a gun without a shot, and we put out a flag
of truce as a signal for parley, but they kept crowding after us till
they came within shot. Upon this we took in our white flag, they
having made no answer to it, hung out the red flag, and fired at
them with shot. It was all one: they crowded after us, and
endeavoured to come under our stern, so to board us on our
quarter; upon which I ordered to bring the ship to, so that they
lay upon our broadside, when immediately we fired five guns at
them—one of which carried away the stern of the hindermost
boat. While this was doing, one of the three boats that was
behind made up to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her,
and we could afterwards see her take out the men: we called
ADVENTURES OF
again to the foremost boat, but she crowded close under our stern.
Upon this our gunner ran out his two chase guns, and fired at her;
then we weared the ship again, and brought our quarter to bear
upon them, and, firing three guns more, we found the boat was
split almost to pieces. Upon this I immediately manned out our
pinnace, with orders to pick up some of the men. Our men in
the pinnace followed their orders, and took up three men, one of
whom was drowning. As soon as they were on board, we
crowded all the sail we could, and the boats gave over their chase.
Being thus delivered from a danger, I took care that we should
change our course, and not let any one imagine whither we were
going: so we stood out to sea eastward, quite out of the course
of all European ships. We now began to consult with the two
seamen, and inquire what the meaning of all this should be?
The Dutchman told us that the fellow that sold us the ship, as we
said, was no more than a thief that had ran away with her; that
the captain was treacherously murdered by the natives on the
coast of Malacca, with three of his men; and that he, this Dutch-
man, and four more, got into the woods, where they wandered
about, till at length he made his escape, and swam off to a Dutch
ship. He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of the
seamen belonging to the ship had arrived, having deserted the
rest in their travels, and gave an account that the fellow who had
run away with the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates,
which were gone a-cruising in her.
It was my partner's opinion that we should go directly back to
Bengal, from whence we came, because there we could give an
account of ourselves, and could prove where we were when the
ship put in, whom we bought her of, and the like. I was some-
time of that opinion; but, after a little more serious thinking, I
told him I thought it was a very great hazard for us to attempt
returning to Bengal, for we should be sure to be waylaid.
This danger a little startled my partner, and we immediately
resolved to go away to the coast of Tonquin, and so on to China.
After a tedious and irregular course, we came within sight of the
coast of Cochin China, and resolved to put into a small river,
which, however, had depth enough of water for us. This happy
step was our deliverance; for the next morning there came into
the Bay of Tonquin two Dutch ships; and a third without any
colours spread out, but which we believed to be a Dutchman,
367
passed by at two leagues' distance, steering for the coast of China;
and in the afternoon went by two English ships, steering the same
course. The place we were in was wild and barbarous, the people
thieves, even by occupation or profession.
I have observed above that our ship sprang a leak at sea, and
that it was stopped unexpectedly; yet, as we did not find the
ship so perfectly tight and sound as we desired, we resolved, while
we were in this place, to lay her on shore, if possible, to find out
where the leaks were. Accordingly, having lightened the ship,
we tried to bring her down, that we might come at her bottom.
The inhabitants came wondering down to the shore to look at
us; and not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom
with stages, and with their boats on the off side, they presently
concluded that the ship was cast away. On this supposition,
they came all about us, with ten or twelve large boats, intending,
no doubt, to plunder the ship. I called to the men who worked
upon the stages to get up the side into the ship, and bade those
in the boat to row round and come on board; but, before they
could do as they were ordered, the Cochin-Chinese were upon
them, and boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the
men as their prisoners. The first man they laid hold of was an
English seaman, a stout, strong fellow, who, having a musket in
his hand, never offered to fire it, but laid it down in the boat,
like a fool, as I thought. But he understood his business better
than I could teach him; for he grappled the Pagan, and dragged
him by main force out of their own boat into ours, where, taking
him by the two ears, he beat his head so against the boat's
gunnel, that the fellow died instantly in his hands; and, in the
meantime, a Dutchman, who stood next, took up the musket,
and, with the butt-end of it, so laid about him, that he knocked
down five who attempted to enter the boat. But this was little
towards resisting thirty or forty men. An accident, however,
gave our men a complete victory. Our carpenter, being prepared
to grave the outside of the ship, as well as to pay the seams
where he caulked her to stop the leaks, had got two kettles, just
let down into the boat—one filled with boiling pitch, and the
other with rosin, tallow, and oil; and the man that tended the
carpenter had a great iron ladle in his hand: two of the enemy's
men entered the boat just where the fellow stood, and he
immediately saluted them with a ladleful of the stuff boiling hot.
ADVENTURES OF
which so burnt and scalded them, being half naked, that they
roared out like two bulls, and, enraged with the fire, leaped both
into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and, stepping forward him-
self, takes one of their mops, and dipping it in the pitch-pot, he
and his man threw it among them so plentifully, that, of all the
men in three boats, there was not one that was not scalded and
burnt with it, and made such a howling and crying that I never
heard a worse noise, and, indeed, nothing like it. All the while
this was doing, my partner and I, who managed the rest of the
men on board, had, with great dexterity, brought the ship almost
to rights; and, having got the guns into their places again, the
gunner called to me to bid our boat get out of the way, for he
would let fly among them. I bade him not offer to fire, for the
carpenter would do the work without him; but bade him heat
another pitch-kettle, which our cook, who was on board, took
care of. But the enemy was so terrified with what they met with
in their first attack, that they would not come on again; and
some of them that were furthest off, seeing the ship swim, as it
were, upright, began, as we supposed, to see their mistake, and
gave over the enterprise, finding it was not as they expected
.
The next day, having finished our work within board, and finding
our ship was perfectly healed of all her leaks, we set sail. We
kept on north east, as if we would go to the Manillas or the Philip-
pine Islands, and this we did that we might not fall into the way
of any European ships; and then we steered north again, till we
came to the latitude of twenty-two degrees twenty minutes, by
which means we made the island of Formoso directly, where we
came to an anchor, in order to get water and fresh provisions.
From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at
an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond all the ports of
China where our European ships usually come. Being now come
to the latitude of thirty degrees, we resolved to put into the first
trading port we should come at; and, standing in for the shore,
a boat came off two leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot
on board, who came to offer his services, which, indeed, we were
very glad of, and took him on board.
I had conversation with the pilot, who, it seems, knew the whole
story of the attack of the Dutchman, and I told him it was our
ship they followed and attacked, believing us to be pirates. Learn-
ing from him after we came to anchor at the south-west point of
the great Gulf of Nanquin, whither I had pressed him to carry us,
that the two Dutch ships had gone to Nanquin, I asked the old
pilot if there was no creek or harbour which I might put into, and
pursue my business with the Chinese privately, and be in no danger
of the enemy. He told me, if I would sail to the southward about
two-and-forty leagues, there was a little port called Quinchang,
where the fathers of the mission usually landed from Macao, on
their progress to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and
where no European ships ever put in.
We all agreed to go back to this place, and we weighed the next
day, having only gone twice on shore, where we were to get fresh
water. We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) not
till five days; but it was very much to our satisfaction, and I was
joyful, and I may say thankful, when I set my foot safe on shore;
resolving, and my partner too, that if it was possible to dispose of
ourselves and effects any other way, though not every way to our
satisfaction, we would never set foot on board that unhappy vessel
again. When we came on shore, the old pilot, who was now our
friend, got us a lodging, and a warehouse for our goods. Besides
this, he brought us acquainted with three missionary Romish
priests, who were in the town, and who had been there some time,
converting the people to Christianity. One of these was a French-
man, whom they called Father Simon; he was a jolly, well-con-
ditioned man, very free in his conversation, not seeming so serious
and grave as the other two did, one of whom was a Portuguese,
and the other a Genoese. This French priest was appointed, it
seems, by order of the chief of the mission, to go up to Pekin,
the royal seat of the Chinese Emperor, and waited only for another
priest, who was ordered to come to him from Macao, to go along
with him; and we scarce ever met together but he was inviting
me to go that journey with him, telling me, how he would show
me all the glorious things of that mighty empire, and amongst the
rest, the greatest city in the world.
Dining with the missionary one day, I showed some little incli-
nation to go with him; and he pressed me and my partner very
hard, and with a great many persuasions, to consent. But we had
our ship and our merchandise to dispose of. At length our pro-
spects began to clear up a little. Our old Portuguese pilot brought
a Japan merchant to us, who bought all our opium, and gave us
a very good price for it. I proposed to him to deal with us for
2
ADVENTURES OP
our ship also, and he consented to hire her to go to Japan, saying
that on his return he would buy the ship. But after this, we, on
the proposition of my partner, made over half the ship to the young
man whom my nephew had left with me as a companion, and took
a writing from him obliging him to account to us for the other
half. So away he went to Japan.
We were now on shore in China, destitute of all manner of
prospect of return! But in about four months' time there was to
be another fair at that place where we were, and then we might
possibly find some Chinese junks or vessels from Nanquin, that
would be to be sold, and would carry us and our goods whither
we pleased. Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here;
but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three journeys into the
country. First, we went ten days' journey to see the city of
Nanquin—a city well worth seeing, indeed. I had also a mind
to see the city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and Father
Simon importuned me daily to do it. At length his time of going
away being set, it was necessary that we should resolve either to
go or not to go; so I referred him to my partner, and left it
wholly to his choice, who at length resolved it in the affirmative,
and we prepared for our journey. We set out with very good
advantage, as to finding the way; for we got leave to travel in the
retinue of one of their mandarins, a kind of viceroy, or principal
magistrate. We were five-and-twenty days travelling to Pekin,
through a country infinitely populous, but miserably cultivated:
the husbandry, economy, and the way of living, all very miserable,
though they boast so much of the industry of the people. The
pride of these people is infinitely great, and exceeded by nothing
but their poverty, which adds to that which I call their misery.
My friend, Father Simon, and I used to be very merry upon
these occasions, to see the beggarly pride of those people. For
example, coming by the house of a country gentleman, as Father
Simon called him, about ten leagues off from the city of Nanquin,
we had, first of all, the honour to ride with the master of the house
about two miles : the state he rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism,
being a mixture of pomp and poverty.
The habit of this greasy Don was very proper for a scaramouch,
or merryandrew, being a dirty calico, with all the tawdry trappings
of a fool's coat, such as hanging sleeves, taffety, and cuts and
slashes almost on every side; it covered a rich taffety vest, as
371
greasy as a butcher, and which testified that his honour must
needs be a most exquisite sloven. His horse was a poor, lean,
starved, hobbling creature, such as in England might sell for about
thirty or forty shillings; and he had two slaves followed him on
foot, to drive the poor creature along: he had a whip in his hand,
and he belaboured the beast as fast about the head as his slaves
did about the tail; and thus he rode by us with about ten or
twelve servants, and we were told he was going from the city to
his country seat, about half a league before us. We travelled on
gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode away before us; and
as we stopped at a village about an hour, to refresh us, when we
came by the country seat of this great man, we saw him in a little
place before his door, eating his repast; it was a kind of garden,
but he was easy to be seen, and we were given to understand that
the more we looked on him the better he would be pleased.
He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto tree, which
effectually shaded him over the head, and on the south side; but
under the tree also was placed a large umbrella, which made that
part look well enough; he sat lolling back in a great elbow chair,
being a heavy corpulent man, and his meat being brought him by
two women slaves: he had two more, whose office, I think, few
gentlemen in Europe would accept of their service in, namely,
one fed the squire with a spoon, and the other held the dish with
one hand, and scraped off what he let fall upon his worship's
beard and taffety vest, with the other; while the great fat brute
thought it below him to employ his own hands in any of those
familiar offices which kings and monarchs would rather do than
be troubled with the clumsy fingers of their servants.
I took this time to think what pain men's pride puts them to,
and how troublesome a haughty temper, thus ill-managed, must
be to a man of common sense; and, leaving the poor wretch to
please himself with our looking at him, as if we admired his pomp,
whereas we really pitied and contemned him, we pursued our
journey to Pekin.
At length we arrived at Pekin. I had nobody with me but the
youth whom my nephew the captain had given me to attend me
as a servant, and who proved very trusty and diligent; and my
partner had nobody with him but one servant, who was a kins-
man. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see the
court, we gave him his passage, that is to say bore his charges,
ADVENTURES OF
for his company, and to use him as an interpreter—for he under-
stood the language of the country, and spoke good French and
a little English; and, indeed, this old man was a most useful
implement to us everywhere; for we had not been above a week
at Pekin, when he came laughing, and told us there was a great
caravan of Muscovy and Polish merchants in the city, and that
they were preparing to set out on their journey, by land, to
Muscovy, within four or five weeks. We then went to consult
together what was to be done, and I and my partner agreed, that,
if our Portuguese pilot would go with us, we would bear his
charges to Moscow, or to England, if he pleased. He received
the proposal like a man transported, and told us he would go
with us over the whole world.
It was the beginning of February, our style, when we set out
from Pekin. The company was very great, and, as near as I can
remember, made between three and four hundred horses and
camels, and upwards of a hundred and twenty men, very well
armed, and provided for all events. We consisted of people 01
several nations, such as the Muscovites chiefly,—for there were
about sixty of them who were merchants or inhabitants of Moscow,
though of them some were Livonians; and, to our particular
satisfaction, five of them were Scots, who appeared also to be
men of great experience in business and very good substance.
When we had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who were
five in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants, that is
to say, all the passengers, except the servants, to a great council,
as they termed it. At this great council, every one deposited a
certain quantity of money to a common stock, for the necessary
expense of buying forage on the way, where it was not otherwise
to be had, and for satisfying the guides, getting horses, and the
like. And here they constituted the journey, as they called it,
namely, they named captains and officers to draw us all up, and
give the command in case of an attack; and gave every one their
turn of command. In two days more we passed the great China
wall, made for a fortification against the Tartars. And here I
began to find the necessity of keeping together in a caravan, as
we travelled, for we saw several troops of Tartars roving about
Our leader for the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a-
hunting, as they call it: and what was this but hunting of sheep!
However, it may be called hunting too; for the creatures are the
HETOUR DE ROBINSON EN EUROPE
wildest and swiftest of foot that ever I saw of their kind,—only
they will not run a great way; and you are sure of sport when you
begin the chase, for they appear generally by thirty or forty in a
flock, and, like true sheep, always keep together when they fly.
In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet
with about forty Tartars, who, as soon as they saw us, one of them
blew a kind of horn very loud, but with a barbarous sound that I
had never heard before, and, by the way, never care to hear again.
We all supposed this was to call their friends about them; and
so it was, for in less than half a quarter of an hour, a troop of forty
or fifty more appeared at about a mile distance; but our work
was over first, as it happened.
One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be amongst
us; and as soon as he heard the horn, he told us, in short, that
we had nothing to do but to charge them immediately, without
loss of time; and, drawing us up in a line, he asked if we were
resolved? We told him we were ready to follow him; so he rode
directly up to them. They stood gazing at us like a mere crowd,
drawn up in no order; but, as soon as they saw us advance, they
let fly their arrows,—which, however, missed us very happily: it
seems they mistook not their aim, but their distance: for their
arrows all fell a little short of us, but with so true an aim, that
had we been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several
men wounded, if not killed. Immediately we halted; and, though
it was at a great distance, we fired, and sent them leaden bullets
for wooden arrows, following our shot full gallop, resolving to fall
in among them sword in hand—for so our bold Scot that led us
directed. As soon as we came up to them, we fired our pistols
in their faces, and then drew; but they fled in the greatest con-
fusion imaginable. We had, however, this misfortune, namely,
that all our mutton that we had in chase got away.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore
the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards; but, in about five
days, we entered a vast great wild desert, which held us three
days' and nights' march. I asked our guides whose dominion
this was in? and they told me this was a kind of border that
might be called No Man's Land, being part of the great Kara-
kathy, or Grand Tartary, but that, however, it was reckoned to
China; that there was no care taken here to preserve it from
the inroads of thieves, and therefore it was reckoned the worst
desert in the whole march, though we were to go over some
much larger.
In passing this wilderness, which, I confess, was at the first
view very frightful to me, we saw two or three times little parties
of the Tartars, but they seemed to be upon their own affairs,
and to have no design upon us; and so, like the man who met
the devil, if they had nothing to say to us, we had nothing to
say to them: we let them go.
We travelled near a month after this, the ways being not so
good as at first, though still in the dominions of the Emperor of
China, but lay, for the most part, in villages,—some of which
were fortified, because of the incursions of the Tartars.
We wanted about two days' journey of the fortified city of
Naum, when messengers were sent express to every part of the
road, to tell all travellers and caravans to halt, till they had a
guard sent to them; for that an unusual body of Tartars, making
ten thousand in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty miles
beyond the city. Accordingly, two days after, we had two hundred
soldiers sent us from a garrison of the Chinese on our left, and
three hundred more from the city of Naum, and with those we
advanced boldly. We were entered upon a desert of about
fifteen or sixteen miles over, when behold, by a cloud of dust they
raised, we saw an enemy was at hand. The Tartars came on, and
an innumerable company they were. A party of them came on
first, and when within gunshot our leader ordered the two wings
to advance swiftly and give them a salvo on each wing, which was
done; and, wheeling off to the left, they gave over the design.
Two days after this we came to the city of Naum, or Naumn.
After this we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful deserts,
one of which we were sixteen days passing over; and, on the 13th
of April, we came to the frontiers of the Muscovite dominions.
As we entered into the Muscovite dominions, we were very visibly
obliged to the care the Czar of Muscovy has taken to have cities
and towns built in as many places as are possible to place them,
where his soldiers keep garrison something like the stationary
soldiers placed by the Romans in the remotest countries of their
empire; though wherever we came at these towns and stations,
the garrisons and governor were Russians, and professed mere
pagans, sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the sun, moon, and
stars, or all the host of heaven: and were, of all the heathens
375
and pagans that ever I met with, the most barbarous, except only
that they did not eat man's flesh, as our savages of America did.
In a village near Nertzinskay, I had the curiosity to go and see
their way of living, which is most brutish and insufferable: they
had, I suppose, a great sacrifice that day; for there stood out
upon an old stump of a tree an idol made of wood, frightful as
anything we can think of to represent the devil that can be made.
It had a head certainly not so much as resembling any creature
that the world ever saw—ears as big as goats' horns, and as high
—eyes as big as a crown piece, and a nose like a crooked ram's
horn—and a mouth extended four-cornered, like that of a lion,
with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill. Its upper
garment was of sheep-skins, with the wool outward; a great
Tartar bonnet on the head, with two horns growing through it:
it was about eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, or any other
proportion of parts. This scarecrow was set up at the outside
of the village; and, when I came near to it, there were sixteen
or seventeen creatures lying flat on the ground round this for-
midable block of shapeless wood. A little way off from this
monster, and at the door of a tent or hut, stood three butchers—
I thought they were such; for when I came nearer to them, I
found they had long knives in their hands, and in the middle of
the tent appeared three sheep killed, and one young bullock or
steer. But these, it seerns, were sacrifices to that senseless log
of an idol; and the three men, priests belonging to it; and the
seventeen prostrated wretches were the people who brought the
offering, and were making their prayers.
I confess I was more moved at their stupidity, and this brutish
worship of a hobgoblin, than ever I was at anything in my life.
I rode up to the image, or monster—call it what you will—and
with my sword cut the bonnet that was on its head in two in the
middle, so that it hung down by one of the horns: and one of
our men, that was with me, took hold of the sheep-skin that
covered it, and pulled at it, when, behold, a most hideous outcry
and howling ran through the village, and two or three hundred
people came about my ears, so that I was glad to scour for it, for
we saw some had bows and arrows. But I resolved, from that
moment, to visit them again.
Our caravan rested three nights at the town, so we had some
leisure here to put my design in execution. I communicated my
ADVENTURES OF
project to the Scots merchant of Moscow. He laughed at me at
first, but finding me resolute, he told me that he would go with
me; but he would go first and bring a stout fellow, one of his
countrymen, to go also with us. He brought me a Tartar's robe,
or gown of sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and
had provided the same for himself and his countryman, that the
people, if they saw us, should not be able-to determine who we were.
All the first night we spent in mixing up some combustible matter
with aquavitse, gunpowder, and such other materials as we could
get; and having a good quantity of tar in a little pot, about an
hour after night we set out upon our expedition. We came to the
place about eleven o'clock at night, and found that the people
were at their rest; only, that in the great hut, or tent, as we called
it, where we saw the three priests whom we mistook for butchers,
we saw a light; and, going up close to the door, we heard people
talking, as if there were five or six of them. We determined on
making them our prisoners; and, tying their hands, compelled
them to stand and see their idol destroyed, which we accomplished
by means of the combustibles we had brought with us.
In the morning we appeared among our fellow-travellers, exceed-
ingly busy in getting ready for our journey, and no one could
suggest that we had been anywhere but in our beds. But it did
not end so. Next day there came a great multitude of the country
people to the town gates, demanding satisfaction of the Russian
governor for insulting their priests, and burning their great Cham-
Chi-Thaunga, for so they called the monstrous creature they wor-
shipped. The governor gave them all the good words imaginable;
and at last, to appease them, told them there was a caravan gone
to Russia that morning, and that it was perhaps some of this
company that had done them the injury. Then he sent after us,
intimating that if any in our caravan had done it, they should make
their escape; and that whether we had done it or no, we should
make all the haste forward that was possible. The captain of the
caravan took the hint, and we travelled two days and two nights,
without any considerable stop, and then we lay at a village called
Plothus. From thence we hastened on towards Jarawena; but
on the second day's march across the desert, by the clouds of dust
behind us, we began to be sensible we were pursued. The third
day, when we had encamped, the enemy came upon us in great
numbers, and we only escaped them through the cunning of a
ROBINSON ET LE SEIGNEUR RUSSE
Cossack of Jarawena; who, telling our leader he would send these
people away to Sibeilka, rode away from our rear, and, taking a
great circuit about, came to the army of Tartars, as if he had been
sent express to them, and told them that the people who had burnt
their Cham-Chi-Thaunga were gone to Sibeilka with a caravan of
miscreants, that is to say Christians, and that they were resolved
to burn the god Seal Isarg, belonging to the Tonguses. Upon
this, away the Tartars drove in a violent hurry, and in less than
three hours they were entirely out of our sight. So we passed
safely on to Jarawena, and from thence through a frightful desert
to a country pretty well inhabited.
I have nothing material to say of my particular affairs, till I came
to Tobolski, the capital of Siberia, where I let the caravan go, and
made provision to winter. This being the country where the state
criminals of Muscovy are all banished, the city was full of noblemen,
princes, and gentlemen, with several of whom I made acquaintance.
About the latter end of May I began to make all ready to pack
up, and proposed to a certain prince,—a banished minister of the
Czar,—that, as I went in the nature of a caravan, and could encamp
every night where I would, he might easily pass with me uninter-
rupted to Archangel, where I could secure him on board an
English or Dutch ship, and carry him off safe along with me. He
heard me very attentively, declined my offer, but asked me if I
had kindness enough to offer the same to another person in whom
he had a great share of concern. I told him, if he would please
to name the person to me, I would give him an answer. There-
upon he said it was his only son; I made no hesitation, but told
him I would do it.
It was in the beginning of June when I left this remote place,
with my young lord, and a faithful Muscovite, or rather Siberian,
servant he had with him. On the i8th of July we all arrived safe
at Archangel, but were obliged to stay at this place five weeks for
the arrival of the ships. We sailed from Archangel on the 20th
of August, in a Hamburgher, and arrived in the Elbe the I3th of
September. Here my partner and I found a very good sale for
our goods; and, dividing the produce, my share amounted to three
thousand four hundred and seventy-five pounds seventeen shillings
and three pence. Here the young lord took leave of us, and went
up the Elbe, in order to go to the Court of Vienna, where he
resolved to seek protection.
To conclude, having stayed near four months at Hamburgh, I
came from thence overland to the Hague, where I embarked in
the packet, and arrived in London the loth of January 1705,
having been gone from England ten years and nine months. And
here, resolving to harass myself no more, I am preparing for a
longer journey than all these, having lived seventy-two years a
life of infinite variety, and learnt sufficiently to know the value
of retirement, and the blessing of ending our days in peace.

-
iiii
HU 51JB 3

LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
Robinson Crusoe.
BY
DANIEL DEFOE.
ILLUSTRATED WITH ETCHINGS BY M. MOUILLERON; PORTRAIT
BY L. FLAMING j AND WITH ENGRAVINGS AFTER
DESIGNS BY T. STOTHARD, R.A.

PHILADELPHIA:
J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY.
I 89 i.
university;
LIBRARY
</7 X?- "c
Crusoe attempts to reclaim Friday from cannibalism, and converses with him about
his country and its inhabitants—Instructs him in the knowledge of the true
God, and exposes the delusions of Pagan priestcraft—Friday finds it difficult
to account for the existence of evil—The savage becomes a Christian, and
Crusoe is completely happy.

FTER I had been two or three days returned to my
castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday off
from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish
of a cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste
other flesh; so I took him out with me one morn-
ing to the woods. I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of
my own flock, and bring it home and dress it; but as I was
going, I saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two young
kids sitting by her. I catched hold of Friday. "Hold," said
I;" stand still;" and made signs to him not to stir. Immediately
I presented my piece, shot, and killed one of the kids. The
poor creature, who had, at a distance indeed, seen me kill the
savage—his enemy, but did not know, nor could imagine, how it
was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled and shook, and looked
so amazed, that I thought he would have sunk down. He did
not see the kid I had shot at, or perceive that I had killed it, but
ripped up his waistcoat, to feel if he was not wounded; and, as
I found presently, thought I was resolved to kill him, for he
came and kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees, said a
great many things I did not understand,—but I could easily see
that his meaning was, to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no
harm; and, taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and,
pointing to the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run
and fetch it, which he did : and while he was wondering, and
looking to see how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun
ADVENTURES OF
again: and, by and by, I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon
a tree, within shot;—so, to let Friday understand a little what I
would do, I called him to me again, pointing at the fowl, which
was indeed a parrot, thuogh I thought it had been a hawk,—I
say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground
under the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made him
understand that I would shoot and kill that bird. Accordingly,
I fired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw the parrot
fall . He stood like one frighted again, notwithstanding all that
I had said to him; and I found he was the more amazed, because
he did not see me put anything into the gun, but thought there
must be some wonderful fund of death and destruction in that
thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or anything, near or far off:
and the astonishment this created in him was such as could not
wear off for a long time, and I believe, if I would have let him,
he would have worshipped me and my gun. As for the gun
itself, he would not so much as touch it for several days after; but would speak to it and talk to it as if it had answered him,
when he was by himself; which, as I afterwards learned of him,
was to desire it not to kill him.
Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed
to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, but
stayed some time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had
fluttered a good way from the place where she fell: however, he
found her, took her up, and brought her to me; and as I had
perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took this advan-
tage to charge the gun again, and not let him see me do it, that
I might be ready for any other mark that might present. But
nothing else offered at that time,— so I brought home the kid, and
the same evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as I
could; and having a pot for that purpose, I boiled or stewed some
of the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had begun
to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad of
it, and liked it very well; but that which was strangest to him,
was to see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the
salt was not good to eat; and putting a little into his own mouth,
he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, wash-
ing his mouth with fresh water after it: on the other hand, I took
some meat in my mouth without salt, and I pretended to spit and
sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the salt; but it
would not do—he would never care for salt with his meat or in
his broth, at least not a great while, and then but a very little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved
to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid: this I
did, by hanging it before the fire in a string, as I had seen many
people do in England, setting two poles up, one on each side of
the fire, and one cross on the top, and tying the string to the cross
stick, letting the meat turn continually. This Friday admired
very much; but when he came to taste the flesh, he took so many
ways to tell me how well he liked it, that I could not but under-
stand him, and at last he told me that he would never eat man's
flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out, and
sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before; and
he soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after he
had seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make
bread of: for after that I let him see me make my bread, and
bake it too; and in a little time Friday was able to do all the
work for me, as well as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider that, having two mouths to feed
instead of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest, and
plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to do: so I marked
out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in the same mannei
as before, in which Friday not only worked very willingly and
very hard, but did it very cheerfully: and I told him what it was
for—that it was for corn to make more bread, because he was now
with me, and that I might have enough for him and myself too.
He appeared very sensible of that part, and let me know that he
thought I had much more labour upon me on his account than I
had for myself; and that he would work the harder for me, if I
would tell him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place.
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of
almost everything I had occasion to call for, and of every place I
had to send him to, and talk a great deal to me,—so that, in short,
I began now to have some use for my tongue again, which, indeed,
I had very little occasion for before, that is to say, about speech.
Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfac-
tion in the fellow himself: his simple, unfeigned honesty appeared
to me more and more every day, and I began really to love the
creature ; and, on his side, I believe he loved me more than it was
possible for him ever to love anything before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering inclination
to his own country again; and having learned him English so
well that he could answer me almost any questions, I asked
him whether the nation that he belonged to never conquered in
battle? At which he smiled, and said, "Yes, yes, we always
fight the better,"—that is, he meant, always get the better in
fight; and so we began the following discourse: "You always
fight the better?" said I, "how came you to be taken prisoner
then, Friday?"
FRIDAY. My nation beat much, for all that
Master. How beat? If your nation beat them, how came you
to be taken?
FRIDAY. They more many than my nation in the place where
me was; they take one, two, three, and me; my nation overbeat
them in the yonder place, where me no was; there my nation
take one, two, great thousand.
MASTER. But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies, then?
FRIDAY. They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in
the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.
MASTER. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with the
men they take? Do they carry them away and eat them, as
these did?
FRIDAY. Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all up.
MASTER. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place, where they think.
MASTER. Do they come hither?
FRIDAY. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place.
MASTER. Have you been here with them?
FRIDAY. Yes, I have been here; (points to the north-west side
of the island, which, it seems, was their side.)
By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been
among the savages who used to come on shore on the farther part
of the island, on the said man-eating occasions that he was now
brought for; and some time after, when I took the courage to
carry him to that side, being the same I formerly mentioned, he
presently knew the place, and told me he was there once when
they ate up twenty men, two women, and one child: he could
189
not tell twenty in English, but he numbered them by laying so
many stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this passage, because it introduces what follows,—
that after I had had this discourse with him, I asked him how
far it was from our island to the shore, and whether the canoes
were not often lost. He told me there was no danger, no canoes
ever lost; but that, after a little way out to sea, there was a
current and a wind, always one way in the morning, the other in
the afternoon.
This I understood to be no more than the sets of the tide, as
going out or coming in; but I afterwards understood it was occa-
sioned by the great draft and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoque,
in the mouth of which river, as If ound afterwards, our island
lay; and that the land which I perceived to the west and north-
west was the great island Trinidad, on the north point of the
mouth of the river. I asked Friday a thousand questions about
the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what nations
were near: he told me all he knew, with the greatest openness
imaginable. I asked him the names of the several nations of his
sort of people, but could get no other name than Caribs: from
whence I easily understood that these were the Caribbees, which
our maps place on that part of America which reaches from the
mouth of the river Oroonoque to Guiana, and onwards to St
Martha. He told me that up a great way beyond the moon—
that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must be west
from their country, there dwelt white bearded men, like me, and
pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned before, and that
they had killed much mans—that was his word,—by which I
understood, he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America
had been spread over whole countries, and were remembered by
all the nations, from father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from this
island, and get among those white men: he told me, "Yes, yes,
I might go in two canoe." I could not understand what he
meant, or make him describe to me what he meant, by two canoe,
till at last, with great difficulty, I found he meant that it must be
in a large great boat, as big as two canoes.
This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me very well;
and from this time I entertained some hopes that, one time or other,
I might find an opportunity to make my escape from this place,
ADVENTURES OF
and that this poor savage might be a means to help me to do it
During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and
that he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was not
wanting to lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his mind.
I asked him, one time, who made him? The poor creature did
not understand me at all, but thought I had asked who was his
father? but I took it by another handle, and asked him who made
the sea, the ground we walked on, and the hills and woods? He
told me, it was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all: he
could describe nothing of this great person, but that he was very
old, much older, he said, than the sea or the land, than the moon
or the stars. I asked him then, if this old person had made all
things, why did not all things worship him? He looked very
grave, and with a perfect look of innocence said, "All things said
O to-him!" I asked him if the people who die in his country
went away anywhere? He said, "Yes; they all went to Bena-
muckee." Then I asked him whether those they ate up went
thither too? He said, "Yes."
From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of
the true God. I told him that the great Maker of all things lived
up there, pointing up towards heaven; that He governs the world
by the same power and providence by which He made it; that
He was omnipotent, could do everything for us, give everything
to us, take everything from us; and thus, by degrees, I opened
his eyes. He listened with great attention, and received with
pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and
of the manner of making our prayers to God, and His being able
to hear us, even in heaven. He told me one day, that if our
God could hear us up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater
God than their Benamuckee, who lived but a little way off, and
yet could not hear till they went up to the great mountains where
he dwelt to speak to him. I asked him if ever he went thither
to speak to him? He said, "No; they never went that were
young men: none went thither but the old men," whom he called
their Oowookakee,—that is, as I made him explain it to me,
their religious, or clergy; and that they went to say, "O" (so he
called saying prayers), and then came back, and told them what
Benamuckee said. By this I observed, that there is priestcraft even
among the most blinded, ignorant pagans in the world; and the
policy of making a secret of religion, in order to preserve the venera-
191
tion of the people to the clergy, is to be found among all religions
in the world, even among the most brutish and barbarous savages.
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday, and
told him that the pretence of their old men going up to the
mountains to say "O" to their god Benamuckee was a cheat,
and their bringing word from thence what he said was much more
so; that if they met with any answer, or spoke with any one there,
it must be with an evil spirit; and then I entered into a long
discourse with him about the devil, the original of him, his
rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the reason of it, his
setting himself up in the dark parts of the world to be worshipped
instead of God, and as God, and the many stratagems he made
use of to delude mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret
access to our passions and to our affections, to adapt his snares
so to our inclinations as to cause us even to be our own tempters,
and to run upon our destruction by our own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind
about the devil, as it was about the being of a God: nature
assisted all my arguments to evidence to him even the necessity
of a great First Cause, and overruling governing Power, a secret,
directing Providence—and of the equity and justice of paying
homage to Him that made us, and the like. But there appeared
nothing of all this in the notion of an evil spirit,—of his original,
his being, his nature, and, above all, of his inclination to do evil,
and to draw us in to do so too; and the poor creature puzzled
me once in such a manner, by a question merely natural and
innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to him.
I had been talking a great deal to him of the power of God,
His omnipotence, His dreadful aversion to sin—His being a con-
suming fire to the workers of iniquity,—how, as He had made us
all, He could destroy us and all the world in a moment; and he
listened with great seriousness to me all the while. After this,
I had been telling him how the devil was God's enemy in the
hearts of men, and used all his malice and skill to defeat the
good designs of Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ
in the world, and the like. "Well," says Friday, "but you say
God is so strong, so great; is He not much strong, much might
as the devil?" "Yes, yes," says I, "Friday, God is stronger
than the devil: God is above the devil, and therefore we pray to
God to tread him under our feet, and enable us to resist his
ADVENTURES OF
temptations, and quench his fiery darts." "But," says he again,
"if God much strong, much might as the devil, why God no kill
the devil, so make him no more do wicked?"
I was strangely surprised at his question; and, after all, though
I was now an old man, yet I was but a young doctor, and ill
enough qualified for a casuist, or a solver of difficulties,—and,
at first, I could not tell what to say, so I pretended not to hear
him, and asked him what he said? but he was too earnest for an
answer to forget his question, so that he repeated it in the very
same broken words as above. By this time I had recovered
myself a little, and I said, "God will at last punish him severely;
he is reserved for the judgment, and is to be cast into the bottom-
less pit, to dwell with everlasting fire." This did not satisfy
Friday; but he returns upon me, repeating my words, "Reserve
at last: me no understand; but why not kill the devil now—not
kill great ago?" "You may as well ask me," said I, "why God
does not kill you and me, when we do wicked things here that
offend Him? We are preserved to repent and be pardoned."
He muses a while at this. "Well, well," says he, mighty affec-
tionately, "that well: so you, I, devil, all wicked, all preserve,
repent, God pardon all." Here I was run down again by him
to the last degree; and it was a testimony to me, how the mere
notions of nature, though they will guide reasonable creatures to
the knowledge of a God, and of a worship or homage due to the
supreme being of God, as the consequence of our nature, yet
nothing but divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus
Christ, and of a redemption purchased for us; of a Mediator;
of a new covenant; and of an Intercessor at the footstool of
God's throne: I say, nothing but a revelation from Heaven can
form these in the soul, and that, therefore, the gospel of our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the Word of God, and the
Spirit of God, promised for the guide and sanctifier of His people,
are the absolutely necessary instructors of the souls of men in the
saving knowledge of God, and the means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my
man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden occasion of going
out: then sending him for something a great way off, I seriously
prayed to God, that He would enable me to instruct savingly this
poor savage, assisting, by His Spirit, the heart of the poor ignorant
creature to receive the light of the knowledge of God in Christ
reconciling him to Himself, and would guide me to speak so to
him from the Word of God, as his conscience might be convinced,
his eyes opened, and his soul saved. When he came again to
me, I entered into a long discourse with him upon the subject of
the redemption of man by the Saviour of the world, and of the
doctrine of the gospel preached from heaven, viz., of repentance
towards God, and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus. I then
explained to him, as well as I could, why our blessed Redeemer
took not on Him the nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham;
and how, for that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the
redemption,—that He came only to the lost sheep of the house of
Israel, and the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the
methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and must
acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon the same principle
will find—that, in laying things open to him, I really informed
and instructed myself in many things that either I did not know,
or had not fully considered before, but which occurred naturally
to my mind upon my searching into them, for the information of
this poor savage; and I had more affection in my inquiry after
things upon this occasion than ever I felt before: so that, whether
this poor wild wretch was the better for me or no, I had great
reason to be thankful that ever he came to me. My grief sat
lighter upon me; my habitation grew comfortable to me beyond
measure; and when I reflected that, in this solitary life which I
had been confined to, I had not only been moved myself to look
up to Heaven, and to seek to the hand that brought me thither,
but was now to be made an instrument, under Providence, to
save the life, and, for aught I knew, the soul, of a poor savage,
and bring him to the true knowledge of religion, and of the
Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesus, to know
whom is life eternal;—I say, when I reflected upon all these
things, a secret joy ran through every part of my soul, and I fre-
quently rejoiced that ever I was brought to this place, which I
had often thought the most dreadful of all afflictions that could
possibly have befallen me.
In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my
time, and the conversation which employed the hours between
Friday and me was such as made the three years which we lived
there together perfectly and completely happy, if any such thing
N
as complete happiness can be found in a sublunary state. The
savage was now a good Christian, a much better than I,—though
I have reason to hope, and bless God for it, that we were equally
penitent, and comforted, restored penitents. We had here the
Word of God to read, and no farther off from His Spirit to instruct,
than if we had been in England. I always applied myself to
reading the Scripture, and to let him know as well as I could the
meaning of what I read; and he again, by his serious inquiries
and questionings, made me, as I said before, a much better scholar
in the Scripture-knowledge than I should ever have been by my
own mere private reading. Another thing I cannot refrain from
observing here also, from experience in this retired part of my
life, viz., how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is that the
knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation by Christ Jesus,
is so plainly laid down in the Word of God,—so easy to be received
and understood, that, as the bare reading the Scripture made me
capable of understanding enough of my duty to carry me directly
on to the great work of sincere repentance for my sins, and laying
hold of a Saviour for life and salvation, to a stated reformation in
practice, and obedience to all God's commands, and this without
any teacher or instructor, I mean human,—so, the same plain
instruction sufficiently served to the enlightening this savage
creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian as I have known
few equal to him in my life.
As to the disputes, wrangling, strife, and contention, which have
happened in the world about religion, whether niceties in doctrines,
or schemes of Church government, they were all perfectly useless
to us, as for aught I can yet see, they have been to all the rest in
the world. We had the sure guide to heaven, viz., the Word of
God; and we had, blessed be God, comfortable views of the
Spirit of God teaching and instructing us by His Word, leading us
into all truth, and making us both willing and obedient to the
instruction of His Word. And I cannot see the least use that the
greatest knowledge of the disputed points in religion, which have
made such confusions in the world, would have been to us, if we
could have obtained it. But I must go on with the historical
part of things, and take every part in its order.
Crusoe teaches Friday the use of fire-arms, and describes to him the countries of
Europe—They make a boat, and fit it with masts and sails—Friday is instructed
how to navigate it—The savages again visit the island—They are attacked and
routed—Crusoe rescues a Spaniard, their prisoner, and Friday discovers his
father.

FTER Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all
I said to him, and speak fluently, though in broken
English, to me, I acquainted him with my own
story, or at least so much of it as related to my coming into this place; how I had lived here, and how long: I
let him into the mystery, for such it was to him, of gunpowder
and bullet, and taught him how to shoot I gave him a knife,
which he was wonderfully delighted with; and I made him a belt
with a frog hanging to it, such as in England we wear hangers
in,—and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet,
which was not only as good a weapon, in some cases, but much
more useful upon other occasions.
I described to him the countries of Europe, and particularly
England, which I came from; how we lived, how we worshipped
God, how we behaved to one another, and how we traded in
ships to all parts of the world. I gave him an account of the
wreck which I had been on board of, and showed him, as near as
I could, the place where she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces
before, and gone. I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we
lost when we escaped, and which I could not stir with my whole
strength then, but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon
seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a great while, and said
nothing. I asked him what it was he studied upon? At last, says
he, "Me see such boat like come to place at my nation." I did
ADVENTURES OF
not understand him for a good while; but, at last, when I had
examined farther into it, I understood by him, that a boat, such
as that had been, came on shore upon the country where he
lived: that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by stress of
weather. I presently imagined that some European ship must
have been cast away upon their coast, and the boat might get
loose, and drive ashore; but was so dull, that I never once
thought of men making escape from a wreck thither, much less
whence they might come: so I only inquired after a description
of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough, but brought me
better to understand him when he added, with some warmth,
"We save the white mans from drown." Then I presently asked
him, if there were any white mans, as he called them, in the
boat? "Yes," he said; "the boat full of white mans." I asked
him how many? He told upon his fingers seventeen. I asked
him then what became of them? He told me, "They live, they
dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently imagined
that these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast
away in sight of my island, as I now called it; and who, after the
ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had
saved themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that wild
shore among the savages. Upon this, I inquired of him more
critically what was become of them; he assured me they lived
still there; that they had been there about four years; that the
savages let them alone, and gave them victuals to live on. I
asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them and eat
them? He said, "No, they make brother with them;" that is, as
I understood him, a truce; and then he added, "They no eat
mans but when make the war fight;" that is to say, they never
eat any men but such as come to fight with them, and are taken
in battle.
It was after this some considerable time, that, being upon the
top of the hill, at the east side of the island, from whence, as I
have said, I had, in a clear day, discovered the main or continent
of America, Friday, the weather being very serene, looks very
earnestly towards the main land, and, in a kind of surprise, falls
a jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some
distance from him. I asked him what was the matter ?" Oh
197
joy!" says he; "Oh glad! there see my country, there my
nation!" I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared
in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered
a strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own country
again. This observation of mine put a great many thoughts into
me, which made me at first not so easy about my new man,
Friday, as I was before; and I made no doubt but that if Friday
could get back to his own nation again, he would not only forget
all his religion, but all his obligation to me, and would be forward
enough to give his countrymen an account of me, and come back
perhaps with a hundred or two of them, and make a feast upon
me, at which he might be as merry as he used to be with those
of his enemies, when they were taken in war. But I wronged
the poor honest creature very much, for which I was very sorry
afterwards. However, as my jealousy increased, and held me
some weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so familiar
and kind to him as before: in which I was certainly in the wrong
too, the honest, grateful creature having no thought about it, but
what consisted with the best principles, both as a religious
Christian, and as a grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my
full satisfaction.
While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was every
day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of the new
thoughts which I suspected were in him; but I found everything
he said was so honest and so innocent, that I could find nothing
to nourish my suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he
made me at last entirely his own again: nor did he, in the least,
perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect him
of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being hazy
at sea, so that we could not see the continent, I called to him,
and said, "Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own country,
your own nation?" "Yes," he said, " I be much oh glad to be
at my own nation." "What would you do there?" said I;
"would you turn wild again, eat men's flesh again, and be a
savage as you were before?" He looked full of concern, and
shaking his head, said, "No, no; Friday tell them to live good,
tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh,
milk; no eat man again." "Why then," said I to him, "they
will kill you." He looked grave at that, and then said, "No, they
ADVENTURES OF
no kill me, they willingly love learn." He meant by this, they
would be willing to learn. He added, "they learned much of
the bearded mans that came in the boat" Then I asked him if
he would go back to them. He smiled at that, and told me he
could not swim so far. I told him I would make a canoe for
him. He told me he would go, if I would go with him. "I go?"
says I; "why, they will eat me, if I come there." "No, no,"
says he; "me make they no eat you; me make they much love
you." He meant, he would tell them how I had killed his
enemies, and saved his life, and so he would make them love me.
Then he told me, as well as he could, how kind they were to
seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he called them, who
came on shore there in distress.
From this time, I confess I had a mind to venture over, and
see if I could possibly join with those bearded men, who, I made
no doubt, were Spaniards, or Portuguese; not doubting but if I
could, we might find some method to escape from thence, being
upon the continent, and a good company together, better than I
could from an island forty miles off the shore, and alone, without
help. So, after some days, I took Friday to work again, by way
of discourse; and told him I would give him a boat to go back
to his own nation; and accordingly I carried him to my frigate,
which lay on the other side of the island, and having cleared it of
water (for I always kept it sunk in the water) I brought it out,
showed it him and we both went into it. I found he was a most
dexterous fellow at managing it, and would make it go almost as
swift again as I could. So when he was in, I said to him, " Well,
now, Friday, shall we go to your nation?" He looked very dull
at my saying so; which, it seems, was because he thought the
boat too small to go so far: I then told him I had a bigger; so
the next day I went to the place where the first boat lay which I
had made, but which I could not get into the water. He said that
was big enough: but then, as I had taken no care of it, and it
had lain two or three-and-twenty years there, the sun had split
and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten. Friday told me
such a boat would do very well, and would carry "much enough
vittle, drink, bread;" that was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time, so fixed upon my design
of going over with him to the continent, that I told him we would
go and make one as big as that, and he should go home in it
»99
He answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad. I
asked him what was the matter with him? He asked me again,
"Why you angry mad with Friday? What me done?" I asked
him what he meant? I told him I was not angry with him at
all. "No angry?" says he, repeating the words several times.
"Why send Friday home away to my nation?" "Why," says I,
"Friday, did you not say you wished you were there?" "Yes,
yes," says he, "wish be both there; no wish Friday there, no
master there." In a word, he would not think of going there
without me. "I go there, Friday!" says 1, '-what shall I do
there?" He turned very quick upon me at this: "You do great
deal much good," says he; "you teach wild mans be good, sober,
tame mans; you tell them know God, pray God, and live new
life." "Alas 1 Friday," says I, "thou knowest not what thou
sayest; I am but an ignorant man myself." "Yes, yes," says he,
"you teachee me good, you teachee them good." "No, no,
Friday," says I, "you shall go without me; leave me here to live
by myself, as I did before." He looked confused again at that
word: and running to one of the hatchets which he used to wear,
he takes it up hastily, and gives it to me. "What must I do with
this?" says I to him. "You take kill Friday," says he. "What must
I kill you for?" said I again. He returns very quick, "What
you send Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday
away." This he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his
eyes: in a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost affection in
him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that I told him then and
often after, that I would never send him away from me, if he was
willing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse, a settled affec-
tion to me, and that nothing should part him from me, so I found
all the foundation of his desire to go to his own country was laid
in his ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of my doing
them good; a thing which, as I had no notion of myself, so I had
not the least thought, or intention, or desire, of undertaking it. But still I found a strong inclination to my attempting an escape,
as above, founded on the supposition gathered from the discourse,
viz., that there were seventeen bearded men there; and, there-
fore, without any more delay, I went to work with Friday, to find
out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or
canoe, to undertake the voyage.
ADVENTURES OF
There were trees enough in the island to have built a little
fleet, not of periaguas and canoes, but even of good large vessels;
but the main thing I looked at was, to get one so near the water
that we might launch it when it was made, to avoid the mistake
I committed at first. At last, Friday pitched upon a tree; for I
found he knew much better than I what kind of wood was fittest
for it; nor can I tell, to this day, what wood to call the tree we
cut down, except that it was very like the tree we call fustic, or
between that and the Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the
same colour and smell. Friday was for burning the hollow or
cavity of this tree out, to make it for a boat; but I showed him
how to cut it with tools, which, after I showed him how to use,
he did very handily: and in about a month's hard labour we
finished it, and made it very handsome; especially, when, with
our axes, which I showed him how to handle, we cut and hewed
the outside into the true shape of a boat. After this, however,
it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her along, as it were inch
by inch, upon great rollers into the water; but when she was in
she would have carried twenty men with great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it
amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how swift my man
Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her along. So
I asked him if he would, and if we might, venture over in her.
"Yes," he said, "he venture over in her very well, though great
blow wind." However, I had a further design that he knew
nothing of, and that was to make a mast and a sail, and to fit
her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was easy
enough to get: so I pitched upon a straight young cedar tree,
which I found near the place, and which there were great plenty
of in the island; and I set Friday to work to cut it down, and
gave him directions how to shape and order it. But as to the
sail, that was my particular care. I knew I had old sails, or rather
pieces of old sails enough; but as I had had them now six-and-
twenty years by me, and had not been very careful to preserve
them, not imagining that I should ever have this kind of use for
them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten, and, indeed, most
of them were so. However, I found two pieces, which appeared
pretty good; and with these I went to work, and with a great
deal of pains, and awkward stitching—you may be sure, for want
of needles—I at length made a three-cornered ugly thing, like
201
what we call in England a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a
boom at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as usually
our ships' long boats sail with, and such as I best knew how to
manage, for it was such a one as I had to the boat in which I
made my escape from Barbary, as related in the first part of my
story.
I was near two months performing this last work, viz., rigging
and fitting my mast and sails; for I finished them, very com-
plete, making a small stay, and a sail, or foresail, to it, to assist, if we
should turn to windward; and, which was more than all, I fixed
a rudder to the stern of her to steer with; and though I was but
a bungling shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness, and even
necessity of such a thing, I applied myself with so much pains to
do it, that at last I brought it to pass,—though, considering the
many dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me
almost as much labour as making the boat.
After all this was done, too, I had my man Friday to teach as
to what belonged to the navigation of my boat; for, though he
knew very well how to paddle the canoe, he knew nothing what
belonged to a sail and a rudder, and was the most amazed when
he saw me work the boat to and again in the sea by the rudder,
and how the sail gibbed, and filled this way or that way, as the
course we sailed changed ;—I say, when he saw this, he stood like
one astonished and amazed. However, with a little use, I made
all these things familiar to him, and he became an expert sailor,
except that, as to the compass, I could make him understand very
little of that. On the other hand, as there was very little cloudy
weather, and seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there was
the less occasion for a compass, seeing the stars were always to be
seen by night, and the shore by day, except in the rainy reasons,
and then nobody cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my cap
tivity in this place; though the three last years that I had this
creature with me ought rather to be left out of account, my
habitation being quite of another kind than in all the rest of the
time . I kept the anniversary of my landing here with the same
thankfulness to God for His mercies as at first: and if I had such
cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more so now, having
such additional testimonies of the care of Providence over me, and
the great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily delivered;
ADVENTURES OF
for I had an invincible impression upon my thoughts that my
deliverance was at hand, and that I should not be another year in
this place. However, I went on with my husbandry—digging,
planting, and fencing, as usual. I gathered and cured my grapes,
and did every necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was, in the meantime, upon me, when I kept
more within doors than at other times; so I had stowed our new
vessel as secure as I could;—bringing her up into the creek,
where, as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship,
and haling her up to the shore, at high water mark, I made my
man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold her, and just
deep enough to give her water enough to float in; and then, when
the tide was out, we made a strong dam across the end of it, to
keep the water out,—and so she lay dry as to the tide from the
sea: and to keep the rain off, we laid a great many boughs of trees
so thick, that she was as well thatched as a house, and thus we
waited for the months of November and December in which I
designed to make my adventure.
When the settled season began to come in, as the thought of
my design returned with the fair weather, I was preparing daily
for the voyage; and the first thing I did was to lay by a certain
quantity of provisions, being the stores for our voyage, and
intended, in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and
launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon something
of this kind, when I called to Friday, and bid him go to the sea-
shore, and see if he could find a turtle, or tortoise, a thing which
we generally got once a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as
the flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came running
back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not
the ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and before I had time
to speak to him, he cries out to me, "O master! O master! O
sorrow! O bad!" "What's the matter, Friday?" says I. "O
yonder, there," says he, "one, two, three canoe: one, two, three!"
By his way of speaking I concluded there were six; but on
inquiry, I found it was but three. "Well, Friday," says I, "do
not be frighted." So I heartened him up as well as I could:
however, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared, for
nothing ran in his head but that they were come to look for him,
and would cut him in pieces, and eat him; and the poor fellow
trembled so, that I scarce knew what to do with him. I com-
ROBINSON APERCOIT LES TROIS CAPTIFS
203
forted him as well as I could, and told him I was in as much
danger as he, and that they would eat me as well as him. "But,"
says I, "Friday, we must resolve to fight them. Can you fight,
Friday?" "Me shoot," says he, "but there come many great
number." "No matter for that," said I again; "our guns will
fright them that we do not kill." So I asked him whether, if I
resolved to defend him, he would defend me and stand by me;
and do just as I bid him. He said, "Me die, when you bid die,
master." So I went and fetched a good dram of rum and gave
him; for I had been so good a husband of my rum, that I had a
great deal left. When he had drank it, I made him take the two
fowling-pieces, which we always carried, and loaded them with
large swan-shot, as big as small pistol-bullets; then I took four
muskets, and loaded them with two slugs, and five small bullets
each, and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each: I
hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and gave
Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspective glass,
and went up to the side of the hill, to see what I could discover;
and I found quickly, by my glass, that there were one-and-twenty
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole
business seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon these three
human bodies,—a barbarous feast indeed! but nothing more than,
as I had observed, was usual with them. I observed also, that
they were landed, not where they had done when Friday made
his escape, but nearer to my creek: where the shore was low,
and where a thick wood came almost close down to the sea.
This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches
came about, filled me with such indignation, that I came down again
to Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down to them and
kill them all, and asked him if he would stand by me. He had
now gotten over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with
the dram I had given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as
before, he would die when I bid die.
In this fit of fury, I took, and divided the arms which I had
charged, as before, between us. I gave Friday one pistol to stick
in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder, and I took one
pistol, and the other three guns myself; and in this posture we
marched out I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and
gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullets; and, as
ADVENTURES OF
to orders, I charged him to keep close behind me, and not to stir,
or shoot, or do anything, till I bid him; and, in the meantime,
not to speak a word. In this posture, I fetched a compass to
my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to
get into the wood, so that I might come within shot of them
before I should be discovered, which I had seen, by my glass, it
was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former thoughts returning,
I began to abate my resolution:—I do not mean that I entertained
any fear of their number; for, as they were naked, unarmed
wretches, it is certain I was superior to them,—nay, though I
had been alone. But it occurred to my thoughts, what call, what
occasion, much less what necessity I was in, to go and dip my
hands in blood, to attack people who had neither done nor
intended me any wrong? who, as to me, were innocent, and
whose barbarous customs were their own disaster; being, in them,
a token indeed of God's having left them, with the other nations
of that part of the world, to such stupidity and to such inhuman
courses, but did not call me to take upon me to be a judge of
their actions, much less an executioner of His justice; that, when-
ever He thought fit, He would take the cause into His own hands,
and, by national vengeance, punish them as a people, for national
crimes; but that, in the meantime, it was none of my business;
that, it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was a declared
enemy, and in a state of war with those very particular people,
and it was lawful for him to attack them; but I could not say
the same with respect to myself. These things were so warmly
pressed upon my thoughts all the way as I went, that I resolved
I would only go and place myself near them, that I might observe
their barbarous feast, and that I would act then as God should
direct: but that, unless something offered that was more a call
to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood, and with all possible
wariness and silence, Friday following close at my heels, I
marched till I came to the skirt of the wood, on the side which
was next to them, only that one corner of the wood lay between
me and them. Here I called softly to Friday, and showing him
a great tree, which was just at the corner of the wood, I bade him
go to the tree, and bring me word if he could see there plainly
what they were doing. He did so, and came immediately back
205
to me, and told me they might be plainly viewed there; that they
were all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners,
and that another lay bound upon the sand, a little from them,
which, he said, they would kill next, and which fired all the very
soul within me. He told me it was not one of their nation, but
one of the bearded men whom he had told me of, that came to
their country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very
naming the white bearded man; and, going to the tree, I saw
plainly, by my glass, a white man, who lay upon the beach of the
sea, with his hands and his feet tied with flags, or things like
rushes, and that he was an European, and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about
fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I was, which, by
going a little way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered,
and that then I should be within half shot of them; so I with-
held my passion, though I was indeed enraged to the highest
degree, and going back about twenty paces, I got behind some
bushes, which held all the way till I came to the other tree, and
then I came to a little rising ground, which gave me a full view
of them, at the distance of about eighty yards.
I had not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful
wretches sat upon the ground, all close-huddled together, and
had just sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian, and
bring him, perhaps, limb by limb, to their fire; and they were
stooped down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday.
"Now, Friday," said I, "do as I bid thee." Friday said he
would. "Then, Friday," says I, "do exactly as you see me do;
fail in nothing." So I set down one of the muskets and the
fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday did the like by his;
and with the other musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding
him do the like: then asking him if he was ready, he said, "Yes."
"Then fire at them," said I; and the same moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side
that he shot, he killed two of them, ancLwounded three more;
and on my side, I killed one, and wounded two. They were,
you may be sure, in a dreadful consternation, and all of them
who were not hurt jumped upon their feet, but did not immediately
know which way to run, or which way to look, for they knew not
from whence their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close
upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might observe what I did j
so, as soon as the first shot was made, I threw down the piece,
and took up the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like: he saw
me cock and present; he did the same again. "Are you ready,
Friday?" said I. "Yes," says he. "Let fly, then," says I, "in
the name of God!" And with that I fired again among the
amazed wretches, and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now
loaden with what I called swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we
found only two drop, but so many were wounded, that they ran
about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and
miserably wounded most of them, whereof three more fell quickly
after, though not quite dead.
"Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged pieces,
and taking up the musket which was yet loaden, "follow me,"—
which he did, with a great deal of courage, upon which I rushed
out of the wood, and showed myself, and Friday close at my foot
As soon as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could,
and bade Friday do so too; and running as fast as I could,
which, by the way, was not very fast, being loaden with arms as I
was, I made directly towards the poor victim, who was, as I said,
lying upon the beach, or shore, between the place where they sat
and the sea. The two butchers, who were just going to work
with him, had left him at the surprise of our first fire, and fled in
a terrible fright to the seaside, and had jumped into a canoe,
and three more of the rest made the same way. I turned to
Friday, and bade him step forwards, and fire at them; he under-
stood me immediately, and running about forty yards, to be near
them, he shot at them, and I thought he had killed them all, for
• I saw them all fall of a heap into the boat, though I saw two of
them up again quickly: however, he killed two of them, and
wounded the third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the
boat as if he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I' pulled out my knife,
and cut the flags that bound the poor victim; and loosing his
hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him in the Portuguese
tongue, what he was. He answered in Latin, " Christianus," but
was so weak and faint that he could scarce stand or speak. I
took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him, making signs
that he should drink, which he did; and I gave him a piece of
bread, which he ate. Then I asked him what countryman he
was, and he said, "Espagniole;" and being a little recovered,
207
let me know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how much
he was in my debt for his deliverance. "Seignior," said I, with
as much Spanish as I could make up, "we will talk afterwards,
but we must fight now: if you have any strength left, take this
pistol and sword, and lay about you." He took them very thank-
fully; and no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if
they had put new vigour into him, he flew upon his murderers
like a fury, and had cut two of them in pieces in an instant; for the
truth is, as the whole was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures
were so much frighted with the noise of our pieces, that they fell
down for mere amazement and fear, and had no more power to
attempt their own escape, than their flesh had to resist our shot;
and that was the case of those five that Friday shot at in the
boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they received, so the
other two fell with the fright
I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being willing
to keep my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my
pistol and sword; so I called to Friday, and bade him run up to
the tree from whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay
there that had been discharged, which he did with great swiftness;
and then, giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load all
the rest again, and bade them come to me when they wanted.
While I was loading these pieces, there happened a fierce engage-
ment between the Spaniard and one of the savages, who made at
him with one of their great wooden swords, the same like weapon
that was to have killed him before, if I had not prevented it
The Spaniard, who was as bold and brave as could be imagined,
though weak, had fought this Indian a good while, and had cut
him two great wounds on his head; but the savage being a stout,
lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him down, being
faint, and was wringing my sword out of his hand, when the
Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting the sword, drew the
pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the body, and
killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running to help him,
could come near him.
Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying wretches
with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and with that he
despatched those three, who, as I said before, were wounded at
first, and fallen, and all the rest he could come up with: and the
Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling-
ADVENTURES OF
pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages, and wounded
them both; but as he was not able to run, they both got from
him into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed one
of them, but the other was too nimble for him; and though he
was wounded, yet had plunged himself into the sea, and swam
with all his might off to those two who were left in the canoe,
which three in the canoe, with one wounded, who we knew not
whether he died or no, were all that escaped our hands of one-
and twenty. The account of the whole is as follows:—Three
killed at our first shot from the tree; two killed at the next shot;
two killed by Friday in the boat; two killed by Friday of those
at first wounded; one killed by Friday in the wood; three killed
by the Spaniard; four killed, being found dropped here and there
of their wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase of them; four
escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead—twenty-
one in all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gun-
shot, and though Friday made two or three shots at them, I did
not find that he hit any of them. Friday would fain have had
me take one of their canoes, and pursue them; and indeed, I
was very anxious about their escape, lest, carrying the news home
to their people, they should come back perhaps with two or three
hundred of their canoes, and devour us by mere multitude: so I
consented to pursue them by sea, and running to one of their
canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me; but when I
was in the canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature
lie there, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the
slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not knowing what the
matter was,—for he had not been able to look up over the side
of the boat: he was tied so hard neck and heels, and had been
tied so long, that he had really little life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had
bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he could
not stand or speak, but groaned most piteously, believing, it
seems, still, that he was only unbound in order to be killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him, and tell
him of his deliverance; and, pulling out my bottle, made him
give the poor wretch a dram, which, with the news of his being
delivered, revived him, and he sat up in the boat But when
Friday came to hear him speak, and looked in his face, it would
209
have moved any one to tears to have seen how Friday kissed him,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped
about, danced, sung,—then cried again, wrung his hands, beat
his own face and head, and then sung and jumped about again,
like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I could
make him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when
he came a little to himself, he told me that it was his father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what
ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor savage at the
sight of his father, and of his being delivered from death; nor,
indeed, can I describe half the extravagancies of his affection
after this; for he went into the boat and out of the boat a great
many times: when he went in to him, he would sit down by him,
open his breast, and hold his father's head close to his bosom
half an hour together, to nourish it; then he took his arms and
ankles, which were numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed
and rubbed them with his hands; and I, perceiving what the
case was, gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with,
which did them a great deal of good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the
other savages, who were now gotten almost out of sight; and it
was happy for us that we did not, for it blew so hard within two
hours after, and before they could be gotten a quarter of their
way, and continued blowing so hard all night, and that from the
north-west, which was against them, that I could not suppose
their boat could live, or that they ever reached to their own
coast.
But, to return to Friday, he was so busy about his father, that
I could not find in my heart to take him off for some time: but
after I thought he could leave him a little, I called him to me,
and he came jumping and laughing, and pleased to the highest
extreme. Then I asked him if he had given his father any bread?
He shook his head, and said, "None, ugly dog eat all up self."
So I gave him a cake of bread, out of a little pouch I carried on
purpose; I also gave him a dram for himself, but he would not
taste it, but carried it to his father. I had in my pocket also two
or three bunches of my raisins,—so I gave him a handful of them
for his father. He had no sooner given his father these raisins,
but I saw him come out of the boat, and run away, as if he had
been bewitched, he ran at such a rate,—for he was the swiftest
O
ADVENTURES OF
fellow of his foot that ever I saw: I say he ran at such a rate
that he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant; and though I
called, and hallooed too, after him, it was all one, away he went;
and in a quarter of an hour I saw him come back again, though
not so fast as he went, and as he came nearer, I found his pace
was slacker, because he had something in his hand. When he
came up to me, I found he had been quite home for an earthen
jug or pot, to bring his father some fresh water, and that he had
got two more cakes or loaves of bread. The bread he gave me,
but the water he carried to his father: however, as I was very
thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived his father
more than all the rum or spirits I had given him, for he was just
fainting with thirst.
When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there
was any water left. He said, "Yes ;" and I bade him give it to
the poor Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his father:
and I sent one of the cakes that Friday brought to the Spaniard
too, who was indeed very weak, and was reposing himself upon a
green place under the shade of a tree, and whose limbs were also
very stiff, and very much swelled with the rude bandage he had
been tied with. When I saw that, upon Friday's coming to him
with the water, he sat up and drank, and took the bread, and
began to eat, I went to him and gave him a handful of raisins.
He looked up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and
thankfulness that could appear in any countenance; but was so
weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted himself in the fight,
that he could not stand up upon his feet: he tried to do it two
or three times, but was really not able, his ankles were so swelled
and so painful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday
to rub his ankles and bathe them with rum, as he had done his
father's.
I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes,
or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turned his head about
to see if his father was in the same place and posture as he left
him sitting; and at last he found he was not to be seen,—at
which he started up, and without speaking a word, flew with that
swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch
the ground as he went: but when he came he only found he had
lain himself down to ease his limbs, so Friday came back to me
presently, and I then spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help
211
him up, if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he should
carry him to our dwelling, where I would take care of him. But
Friday, a lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon
his back, and carried him away to the boat, and set him down
softly upon the side, or gunnel, of the canoe, with his feet in the
inside of it, and then lifted him quite in, and set him close to his
father; and presently, stepping out again, launched the boat off,
and paddled it along the shore faster than I could walk, though
the wind blew pretty hard too: so he brought them safe into
our creek, and leaving them in the boat, ran away to fetch the
other canoe. As he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him
whither he went He told me, " Go fetch more boat: " so away
he went like the wind, for sure never man or horse ran like him;
and he had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I
got to it by land. So he wafted me over, and then went to help
our new guests out of the boat, which he did; but they were
neither of them able to walk, so that poor Friday knew not what
to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to
Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he came to me,
I soon made a kind of a hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday
and I carried them up both together upon it, between us. But
when we got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification, we
were at a worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get them
over, and I was resolved not to break it down: so I set to work
again, and Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a very
handsome tent, covered with old sails, and above that with
boughs of trees, being in the space without our outward fence,
and between that and the grove of young wood which I had
planted; and here we made them two beds of such things as I
had, viz., of good rice straw, with blankets laid upon it, to lie on,
and another to cover them, on each bed.
Crusoe's subjects and their religions—The dead bodies of the slain savages are buried
—The Spaniard and Friday's father set out for the mainland to fetch Europeans
who had been shipwrecked there—In their absence Crusoe is surprised by the
appearance of a boat-load of mutinous sailors, who bring their officers to the
island to murder them—Crusoe releases the prisoners—The mutineers are
attacked and defeated.
Y island was now peopled, and I thought myself very
rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection,
which I frequently made, how like a king I looked.
First of all, the whole country was my own mere
property, so that I had an undoubted right of
dominion. Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected,—I was
absolute lord and lawgiver; they all owed their lives to me, and
were ready to lay down their lives, if there had been occasion of
it, for me. It was remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and
they were of three different religions: my man Friday was a Pro-
testant, his father was a Pagan and a cannibal, and the Spaniard
was a Papist However, I allowed liberty of conscience throughout
my dominions. But this is by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners, and
given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began to think
of making some provision for them; and the first thing I did, I
ordered Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat,
out of my particular flock, to be killed,—when I cut off the hinder
quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday to work
to boiling and stewing, and made them a very good dish, I assure
you, of flesh and broth, having put some barley and rice also into
the broth: and as I cooked it without doors, for I made no fire
within my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent, and
having set a table there for them, I sat down and ate my own
dinner also with them, and, as well as I could, cheered them and

encouraged them; Friday being my interpreter, especially to his
father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard too,—for the Spaniard spoke
the language of the savages pretty well.
- After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take
one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other fire-
arms, which, for want of time, we had left upon the place of battle;
and the next day, I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies
of the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently be
offensive. I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
barbarous feast, which I knew were pretty much, and which I
could not think of doing myself,—nay, I could not bear to see
them, if I went that way; all which he punctually performed, and
effaced the very appearance of the savages being there,—so that
when I went again, I could scarce know where it was, otherwise
than by the corner of the wood pointing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new
subjects; and first, I set Friday to inquire of his father what he
thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether
we might expect a return of them, with a power too great for us
to resist. His first opinion was that the savages in the boat never
could live out the storm which blew that night they went off, but
must of necessity be drowned, or driven south to those other shores,
where they were as sure to be devoured, as they were to be drowned
if they were cast away: but as to what they would do if they came
safe on shore, he said he knew not; but it was his opinion that
they were so dreadfully frighted with the manner of their being
attacked, the noise, and the fire, that he believed they would tell
their people they were all killed by thunder and lightning, not by
the hand of man; and that the two which appeared, viz., Friday
and I, were two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy
them, and not men with weapons. This, he said, he knew, because
he heard them all cry out so in their language to one another; for
it was impossible to them to conceive that a man could dart fire,
and speak thunder, and kill at a distance, without lifting up the
hand, as was done now. And this old savage was in the right; for,
as I understood since, by other hands, the savages never attempted
to go over to the island afterwards,—they were so terrified with the
accounts given by those four men (for, it seems, they did escape
the sea), that they believed whoever went to that enchanted island
would be destroyed with fire from the gods.
This, however, I knew not; and therefore was under continual
apprehensions for a good while, and kept always upon my guard, I
and all my army; for, as there were now four of us, I would have ven-
tured upon a hundred of them, fairly in the open field at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear of
their coming wore off, and I began to take my former thoughts of
a voyage to the main into consideration,—being likewise assured
by Friday's father that I might depend upon good usage from their
nation, on his account, if I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended when I had a serious
discourse with the Spaniard, and when I understood that there
were fourteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who, having
been cast away, and made their escape to that side, lived there at
peace, indeed, with the savages, but were very sore put to it for
necessaries, and indeed for life. I asked him all the particulars
of their voyage, and found they were a Spanish ship, bound from
the Rio de la Plata to the Havanna, being directed to leave their
loading there, which was chiefly hides and silver, and to bring
back what European goods they could meet with there; that they
had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom they took out of
another wreck; that five of their own men were drowned, when
first the ship was lost, and that these escaped through infinite
dangers and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal
coast, where they expected to have been devoured every moment
He told me they had some arms with them, but they were perfectly
useless, for that they had neither powder nor ball, the washing of
the sea having spoiled all their powder but a little, which they
used, at their first landing, to provide themselves some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and
if they had formed no design of making any escape. He said
they had many consultations about it, but that having neither
vessel, nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind, their
councils always ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he
thought they would receive a proposal from me which might tend
towards an escape; and whether, if they were all here, it might
not be done. I told him, with freedom, I feared mostly their
treachery and ill usage of me, if I put my life in their hands; for
that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor did
men always square their dealings by the obligations they had
received, so much as they did by the advantages they expected.
215
I told him it would be very hard that I should be the instrument
of their deliverance, and that they should afterwards make me
their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman was certain to
be made a sacrifice, what necessity or what accident soever brought
him thither; and that 1 had rather be delivered up to the savages,
and be devoured alive, than fall into the merciless claws of the
priests, and be carried into the Inquisition. I added, that other-
wise I was persuaded, if they were all here, we might, with so
many hands, build a bark large enough to carry us all away, either
to the Brazils, southward, or to the islands, or Spanish coast,
northward; but that if, in requital, they should, when I had put
weapons into their hands, carry me by force among their own
people, I might be ill used for my kindness to them, and make
my case worse than it was before.
He answered with a great deal of candour and ingenuity, that
their condition was so miserable, and they were so sensible of it,
that he believed they would abhor the thought of using any man
unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance; and that,
if I pleased, he would go to them with the old man, and discourse
with them about it, and return again, and bring me their answer;
that he would make conditions with them upon their solemn oath,
that they would be absolutely under my leading, as their com-
mander and captain; and that they should swear upon the holy
sacraments and gospel to be true to me, and go to such Christian
country as that I should agree to, and no other, and to be directed
wholly and absolutely by my orders, till they were landed safely
in such country as I intended; and that he would bring a con-
tract from them, under their hands, for that purpose.
Then he told me he would first swear to me himself, that he
would never stir from me as long as he lived, till I gave him orders;
and that he would take my side to the last drop of his blood, if there
should happen the least breach of faith among his countrymen.
He told me they were all of them very civil, honest men, and
they were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither
weapons nor clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion
of the savages, out of all hopes of ever returning to their own
country; and that he was sure, if I would undertake their relief,
they would live and die by me.
Upon these assurances I resolved to venture to relieve them,
if possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to
them to treat. But when we had gotten all things in a readiness
to go, the Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so
much prudence in it, on one hand, and so much sincerity
on the other hand, that I could not but be very well satis-
fied in it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of his
comrades for at least half a year. The case was thus: He had
been with us now about a month, during which time I had let him
see in what manner I had provided, with the assistance of Provi-
dence, for my support; and he saw evidently what stock of corn
and rice I had laid up, which, as it was more than sufficient for
myself, so it was not sufficient, at least without good husbandry,
for my family, now it was increased to four; but much less would
it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as he said, fourteen
still alive, should come over; and least of all would it be suffi-
cient to victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a voyage
to any of the Christian colonies of America: so he told me he
thought it would be more advisable to let him and the two other
dig and cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed
to sow, and that we should wait another harvest, that we might
have a supply of corn for his countrymen, when they should
come: for want might be a temptation to them to disagree, or
not to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one
difficulty into another. You know, says he, the children of
Israel, though they rejoiced at first for their being delivered out
of Egypt, yet rebelled even against God Himself, that delivered
them, when they came to want bread in the Wilderness.
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I
could not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I
was satisfied with his fidelity: so we fell to digging all four of us,
as well as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted;
and in about a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-
time, we had gotten as much land cured and trimmed up as we
sowed two and twenty bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of
rice, which was, in short, all the seed we had to spare: nor,
indeed, did we leave ourselves barley sufficient for our own food
for the six months that we had to expect our crop,—that is to say,
reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for sowing; for it is
not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in that country.
Having now society enough, and our number being sufficient
to put us out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless their
•
number had been very great, we went freely all over the island,
wherever we found occasion; and as here we had our escape or
deliverance upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me,
to have the means of it out of mine. To this purpose, I marked
out several trees which I thought fit for our work, and I set
Friday and his father to cutting them down; and then I caused
the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thought on that affair, to
oversee and direct their work. I showed them with what inde-
fatigable pains I had hewed a large tree into single planks, and I
caused them to do the like, till they had made about a dozen
large planks of good oak, near two feet broad, thirty-five feet
long, and from two inches to four inches thick: what prodigious
labour it took up, any one may imagine.
At the same time 1 contrived to increase my little flock of tame
goats as much as I could, and, to this purpose, I made Friday
and the Spaniard go out one day, and myself with Friday the
next day (for we took our turns), and by this means we got about
twenty young kids to breed up with the rest; for whenever we
shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added them to our flock.
But, above all, the season for curing the grapes coming on, I
caused such a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that,
I believe, had we been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun
are cured, we could have filled sixty or eighty barrels; and these,
with our bread, was a great part of our food, and very good living
too, I assure you, for it is an exceeding nourishing food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was not the
most plentiful increase I had seen in the island; but, however, it
was enough to answer our end,—for from our twenty-two bushels
of barley we brought in and threshed out above two hundred and
twenty bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice; which was
store enough for our food to the next harvest, though all the four-
teen Spaniards had been on shore with me; or if we had been ready
for a voyage, it would very plentifully have victualled our ship to
have carried us to any part of the world, that is to say, of America.
When we had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn,
we fell to work to make more wickerwork, viz., great baskets, in
which we kept it, and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous
at this part, and often blamed me that I did not make some things
for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no need of it.
And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests I ex-
ADVENTURES OF
pected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to see
what he could do with those he had left behind them there. I
gave him a strict charge, in writing, not to bring any man with
him who would not first swear, in the presence of himself and of
the old savage, that he would in no way injure, fight with, or attack
the person he would find in the island, who was so kind as to send
for them in order to their deliverance; but that they would stand
by, and defend him against all such attempts, and wherever they
went, would be entirely under and subjected to his command; and
that this should be put in writing, and signed with their hands.
How we were to have this done, when I knew they had neither
pen nor ink, that indeed was a question which we never asked.
Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old savage, the
father of Friday, went away in one of the canoes which they
might be said to come in, or rather were brought in, when they
came as prisoners to be devoured by the savages. I gave each of
them a musket, with a firelock on it, and about eight charges of
powder and ball, charging them to be very good husbands of
both, and not to use either of them but upon urgent occasions.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by me,
in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some
days. I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, suffi-
cient for themselves for many days, and sufficient for all the Spaniards
for about eight days' time ; and wishing them a good voyage, I saw
them go, agreeing with them about a signal they should hang out
at their return, by which I should know them again, when they
came back, at a distance, before they came on shore.
They went away with a fair gale, on the day that the moon was
at full, by my account in the month of October; but as for an exact
reckoning of days, after I had once lost it, I could never recover.it
again, nor had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to
be sure I was right, though, as it proved, when I afterwards examined
my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of years.
It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has
not perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch
one morning, when my man Friday came running in to me, and
called aloud, "Master, master, they are come, they are come!"
I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as
I could get my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by
219
the way, was by this time grown to be a very thick wood;—I say,
regardless of danger, I went without my arms, which it was not
my custom to do; but I was surprised, when turning my eyes to
the sea, I presently saw a boat at about a league and a halfs
distance, standing in for the shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail,
as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in:
also I observed presently, that they did not come from that side
which the shore lay on, but from the southernmost end of the
island. Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie close,
for these were not the people we looked for, and that we might
not know yet whether they were friends or enemies.
In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective glass, to
see what I could make of them; and having taken the ladder
out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I
was apprehensive of anything, and to take my view the plainer
without being discovered.
I had scarce set my foot upon the hill, when my eye plainly dis-
covered a ship lying at an anchor, at about two leagues and a halfs
distance from me, south-south-east, but not above a league and a
half from the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to be
an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in; though the joy of
seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manned
by my own countrymen, and, consequently, friends, was such as
I cannot describe; but yet I had some secret doubts hang about
me—I cannot tell from whence they came—bidding me keep
upon my guard. In the first place, it occurred to me to consider
what business an English ship could have in that part of the
world, since it was not the way to or from any part of the
world where the English had any traffic: and I knew there had
been no storms to drive them in there, as in distress; and that
if they were really English, it was most probable that they were
here upon no good design, and that I had better continue as I
was, than fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger,
which sometimes are given him when he may think there is no
possibility of its being real. That such hints and notices are
given us, I believe few that have made any observations of things
can deny; that they are certain discoveries of an invisible world,
and a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the tendency
ADVENTURES OF
of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why should we not
suppose they are from some friendly agent (whether supreme, or
inferior and subordinate, is not the question), and that they are
given for our good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in the justice of
this reasoning; for had I not been made cautious by this secret
admonition, come it from whence it will, I had been undone
inevitably, and in a far worse condition than before, as you will
see presently. I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I
saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek
to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing; however, as they
did not come quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet
where I formerly landed my rafts, but ran their boat on shore
upon the beach at about half a mile from me, which was very
happy for me; for otherwise they would have landed just, as I
may say, at my door, and would soon have beaten me out of my
castle, and perhaps have plundered me of all I had.
When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they were
Englishmen, at least most of them; one or two I thought were
Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in all eleven men,
whereof three of them I found were unarmed, and, as I thought,
bound; and when the first four or five of them were jumped on
shore, they took those three out of the boat, as prisoners: one of
the three I could perceive using the most passionate gestures of
entreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind of extravagance;
the other two, I could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes,
and appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the
first. I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not
what the meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me in
English, as well as he could, "O master! you see English mans
eat prisoner as well as savage mans." "Why," says I, "Friday,
do you think they are going to eat them then?" "Yes," says
Friday, "they will eat them." "No, no," says I, "Friday, I am
afraid they will murder them, indeed; but you may be sure they
will not eat them."
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was,
but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every
moment when the three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I
saw one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the
seamen call it, or sword, to strike one of the poor men, and I
expected to see him fall every moment, at which all the blood in
my body seemed to run chill in my veins. I wished heartily now
for my Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with him, or that
I had any way to have come undiscovered within shot of them,
that I might have rescued the three men, for I saw no firearms
they had among them: but it fell out to my mind another way.
After I had observed the outrageous usage of the three men by
the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows run scattering about
the island, as if they wanted to see the country. I observed that
the three other men had liberty to go also where they pleased;
but they sat down all three upon the ground, very pensive, and
looked like men in despair.
This put me in mind of the first time when I came on shore
and began to look about me: how I gave myself over for lost;
how wildly I looked around me; what dreadful apprehensions I
had; and how I lodged in the tree all night, for fear of being
devoured by wild beasts. As I knew nothing that night of the
supply I was to receive by the providential driving of the ship
nearer the land by the storms and tide, by which I have since
been so long nourished and supported: so these three poor deso-
late men knew nothing how certain of deliverance and supply
they were, how near it was to them, and how effectually and really
they were in a condition of safety, at the same time that they
thought themselves lost, and their case desperate. So little do
we see before us in the world, and so much reason have we to
depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world, that He
does not leave His creatures so absolutely destitute, but that,
in the worst circumstances, they have always something to be
thankful for, and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they
imagine; nay, are even brought to their deliverance by the means
by which they seem to be brought to their destruction.
It was just at the top of high water when these people came on
shore; and while partly they stood parleying with the prisoners
they brought, and partly while they rambled about to see what
kind of a place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the
tide was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably away,
leaving their boat aground. They had left two men in the boat,
who, as I found afterwards, having drunk a little too much brandy,
fell asleep; however, one of them waking sooner than the other,
and finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed
ADVENTURES OF
for the rest, who were straggling about, upon which they all soon
came to the boat; but it was past all their strength to launch her,
the boat being very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft
oozy sand, almost like a quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are perhaps the least
of all mankind given to forethought, they gave it over, and away
they strolled about the country again; and I heard one of the in
say aloud to another, calling them off from the boat, " Why, let her
alone, Jack, can't you? she'll float next tide," by which I was fully
confirmed in the main inquiry of what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring to stir
out of my castle, any farther than to my place of observation neai
the top of the hill; and very glad I was to think how well it wa3
fortified. I knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat
could be on float again, and by that time it would be dark, and I
might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to hear their
discourse, if they had any.
In the meantime I fitted myself up for a battle, as before, though
with more caution, knowing I had to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered Friday also, whom I had
made an excellent marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms.
I took myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three muskets.
My figure, indeed, was very fierce: I had my formidable goat's
skin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned, a naked sword
by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt
till it was dark; but, about two o'clock, being the heat of the day,
I found, that, in short, they were all gone straggling into the woods,
and, as I thought, laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed
men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were, how-
ever, set down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter
of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn
something of their condition. Immediately I marched in the
figure as above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as
formidable for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a
spectre-like figure as I did.
I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then, before
any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, "What
are ye, gentlemen?"
223
They started up at the noise; but were ten times more con-
founded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that I made.
They made no answer at all, but I thought I perceived them just
going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in English. "Gentle-
men," said I, "do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may have
a friend near, when you did not expect it." "He must be sent
directly from Heaven, then," said one of them very gravely to me,
and pulling off his hat at the same time to me, "for our condition
is past the help of man." "All help is from Heaven, sir," said I;
"but can you put a stranger in the way how to help you? for you
seem to be in some great distress. I saw you when you landed;
and when you seemed to make supplication to the brutes that
came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you."
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trembling,
looking like one astonished, returned, "Am I talking to God or
man? Is it a real man or an angel?" "Be in no fear about that,
sir," said I; "if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would
have come better clothed, and better armed after another manner
than you see me: pray lay aside your fears; I am a man, an
Englishman, and disposed to assist you: you see I have one ser-
vant only; we have arms and ammunition,—tell us freely, can we
serve you? What is your case?"
"Our case," said he, "sir, is too long to tell you, while our
murderers are so near us: but, in short, sir, I was commander of
that ship; my men have mutinied against me; they have been
hardly prevailed on not to murder me; and at last have set me on
shore in this desolate place, with these two men with me, one my
mate, the other a passenger, where we expected to perish, believing
the place to be uninhabited, and know not yet what to think of it."
"Where are these brutes, your enemies?" said I: "do you know
where they are gone?" "There they lie, sir," said he, pointing
to a thicket of trees; "my heart trembles for fear they have seen us,
and heard you speak; if they have, they will certainly murder us alL"
"Have they any firearms?" said I. He answered, " They have
only two pieces, one of which they have left in the boat." "Well,
then," said I, "leave the rest to me; I see they are all asleep, it
is an easy thing to kill them all: but shall we rather take them
prisoners?" He told me there were two desperate villains among
them, that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to; but if they
were secured, he believed all the rest would return to their duty.
ADVENTURES OF
I asked him which they were? He told me he could not at that
distance distinguish them, but he would obey my orders in anything
I would direct. "Well," said I, "let us retreat out of their view
or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve farther." So they
willingly went back with me, till the woods covered us from them.
"Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliverance,
are you willing to make two conditions with me?" He antici-
pated my proposals, by telling me, that both he and the ship, if
recovered, should be wholly directed and commanded by me in
everything; and if the ship was not recovered, he would live and
die with me in what part of the world soever I would send him;
and the two other men said the same.
"Well," says I, "my conditions are but two—First, That while
you stay in this island with me, you will not pretend to any
authority here; and if I put arms into your hands, you will, upon
all occasions, give them up to me, and do no prejudice to me or
mine upon this island, and, in the meantime, be governed by my
orders. Second, That if the ship is, or may be recovered, you
will carry me and my man to England passage free."
He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith o^
man could devise, that he would comply with these most reason-
able demands; and, besides, would owe his life to me, and
acknowledge it upon all occasions, as long as he lived.
"Well, then," said I, "here are three muskets for you, with
powder and ball: tell me next what you think is proper to be
done." He showed all the testimony of his gratitude that he
was able, but offered to be wholly guided by me. I told him I
thought it was hard venturing anything; but the best method I
could think of was to fire upon them at once, as they lay, and if
any were not killed at the first volley, and offered to submit, we
might save them, and so put it wholly upon God's providence to
direct the shot.
He said very modestly, that he was loath to kill them, if he
could help it—but that those two were incorrigible villains, and
had been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they
escaped, we should be undone still; for they would go on board
and bring the whole ship's company, and destroy us all. "Well,
then," says I, "necessity legitimates my advice, for it is the only
way to save our lives." However, seeing him still cautious of
shedding blood, I told him they should go themselves, and
manage as they found convenient
225
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake,
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet I asked him
if either of them were the heads of the mutiny? He said, "No."
"Well, then," said I, " you may let them escape; and Providence
seems to have awakened them on purpose to save themselves.
Now," says I, "if the rest escape you, it is your fault."
Animated with this, he took the musket I had given him in his
hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him,
each man a piece in his hand: the two men who were with him
going first, made some noise, at which one of the seamen who
was awake turned about, and seeing them coming, cried out to
the rest; but it was too late then, for the moment he cried out
they fired; I mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his
own piece. They had so well aimed their shot at the men they
knew, that one of them was killed on the spot, and the other very
much wounded; but not being dead, he started up on his feet,
and called eagerly for help to the others, but the captain, stepping
to him, told him it was too late to cry for help, he should call
upon God to forgive his villany, and with that word knocked
him down with the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke
more: there were three more in the company, and one of them
was also slightly wounded. By this time I was come; and when
they saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged
for mercy. The captain told them he would spare their lives, if
they would give him any assurance of their abhorrence of the
treachery they had been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful
to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her
back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him all the
protestations of their sincerity that could be desired, and he was
willing to believe them, and spare their lives, which I was not
against,—only I was obliged to keep them bound hand and foot
while they were upon the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to
the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring away the oars and
sail, which they did; and by and by three straggling men, that
were (happily for them) parted from the rest, came back upon
hearing the guns fired, and seeing their captain, who before was
their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be bound
also; and so our victory was complete.
r
Crusoe and the captain consult how they may recover the ship from the mutineers—
In the meanwhile a fresh party come ashore—An ambuscade is contrived, and
the mutineers lay down their arms—The captain promises mercy to all except
Will Atkins—The ship taken from the mutineers—Crusoe leaves the island, in
which he had lived for twenty-eight yean.
T now remained that the captain and I should inquire
into one another's circumstances. I began first,
and told him my whole history, which he heard
with an attention even to amazement, and particu-
larly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished
with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a
whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply. But when
he reflected from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have
been preserved there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran
down his face, and he could not speak a word more.
After this communication was at an end, I carried him and his
two men into my apartment, leading them in just where I came
out, viz., at the top of the house, where I refreshed them with
such provisions as I had, and showed them all the contrivances
I had made, during my long, long inhabiting that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing;
but, above all, the captain admired my fortification, and how
perfectly I had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which,
having been now planted near twenty years, and the trees growing
much faster than in England, was become a little wood, and so
thick, that it was impassable in any part of it, but at that one side
where I had reserved my little winding passage into it. This I
told him was my castle and my residence, but that I had a seat
in the country, as most princes have, whither I could retreat
upon occasion, and I would show him that too another time;

but at present our business was to consider how to recover the
ship. He agreed with me as to that; but told me he was per-
fectly at a loss what measures to take, for that there were still six-
and-twenty hands on board, who having entered into a cursed
conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives to the law,
would be hardened in it now by desperation, and would carry it
on, knowing that, if they were subdued, they would be brought
to the gallows as soon as they came to England, or to any of the
English colonies; and that, therefore, there would be no attacking
them with so small a number as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it
was a very rational conclusion, and that, therefore, something
was to be resolved on speedily, as well to draw the men on board
into some snare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing
upon us, and destroying us. Upon this, it presently occurred to
me that, in a little while, the ship's crew, wondering what was
become of their comrades and of the boat, would certainly come
on shore in their other boat, to look for them; and that then,
perhaps, they might come armed, and be too strong for us: this
he allowed was rational.
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to stave
the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry
her off; and taking everything out of her, leave her so far use-
less as not to be fit to swim: accordingly we went on board, took
the arms which were left on board out of her, and whatever else
we found there, which was a bottle of brandy, and another of
rum, a few biscuit-cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump of
sugar in a piece of canvas (the sugar was five or six pounds), all
which was very welcome to me, especially the brandy and sugar,
of which I had had none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars, mast,
sail and rudder of the boat were carried away before, as above),
we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if they had come
strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry off the boat. Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that we could be able to recover the ship; but my view was, that if they went away with-
out the boat, I did not much question to make her fit again to
carry us to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends the
Spaniards in my way, for I had them still in my thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by
ADVENTURES OF
main strength, heaved the boat upon the beach so high that the
tide would not float her off at high-water mark, and besides had
broken a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and
were set down musing what we should do, we heard the ship fire
a gun, and saw her make a waft with her ancient as a signal for
the boat to come on board; but no boat stirred, and they fired
several times, making other signals for the boat.
At last, when all their signals and firing proved fruitless, and
they found the boat did not stir, we saw them (by the help of my
glasses) hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore; and
we found, as they approached, that there were no less than ten
men in her, and that they had fire-arms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a
full view of them as they came, and a plain sight even of their
faces, because the tide having set them a little to the east of the
other boat, they rowed up under shore, to come to the same
place where the other had landed, and where the boat lay.
By this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and the
captain knew the persons and characters of all the men in the
boat, of whom, he said, that there were three very honest fellows,
who, he was sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being
overpowered and frighted; but that as for the boatswain, who,
it seems, was the chief officer among them, and all the rest, they
were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and were no doubt
made desperate in their new enterprise; and terribly apprehensive
he was that they would be too powerful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him that men in our circumstances
were past the operation of fear,—that, considering every condition
that could be was better than that we were supposed to be in,
we ought to expect that the consequence, whether death or life,
would be sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he thought
of the circumstances of my life, and whether a deliverance were
not worth venturing for? "And where, sir," said I, "is your
belief of my being preserved here on purpose to save your life,
which elevated you a little while ago? For my part," said I,
"there seems to me but one thing amiss in all the prospect of
it." "What is that?" says he. "Why," said I, "it is, that as
you say there are three or four honest fellows among them, which
should be spared; had they been all of the wicked part of the
crew I should have thought God's providence had singled them
229
out to deliver them into your hands; for, depend upon it, every
man of them that comes ashore are our own, and shall die or
live as they behave to us."
As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful countenance,
I found it greatly encouraged him; so we set vigorously to our
business. We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's
coming from the ship, considered of separating our prisoners,
and had, indeed, secured them effectually. Two of them, of
whom the captain was less assured than ordinary, I sent with
Friday and one of the three delivered men to my cave, where they
were remote enough, and out of danger of being heard or dis-
covered, or of finding their way out of the woods if they could
have delivered themselves: here they left them bound, but gave
them provisions; and promised them, if they continued there
quietly, to give them their liberty in a day or two, but that if
they attempted their escape, they should be put to death without
mercy. They promised faithfully to bear their confinement with
patience, and were very thankful that they had such good usage
as to have provisions and a light left them, for Friday gave them
candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort, and they did
not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage: two of them were kept
pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them;
but the other two were taken into my service, upon the captain's
recommendation, and upon their solemnly engaging to live and
die with us. So with them and the three honest men we were
seven men well armed, and I made no doubt we should be able
to deal well enough with the ten that were coming, considering
that the captain had said there were three or four honest men
among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay,
they run their boat into the beach, and came all on shore, hauling
the boat up after them, which I was glad to see; for I was afraid
they would rather have left the boat at an anchor, some distance
from the shore, with some hands in her to guard her, and so we
should not be able to seize the boat.
Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to their
other boat, and it was easy to see they were under a great surprise
to find her stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a great
hole in her bottom.
ADVENTURES OF
After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up two or
three great shouts, hallooing with all their might, to try if they
could make their companions hear; but all was to no purpose:
then they came all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their
small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes made the
woods ring. But it was all one: those in the cave we were sure
could not hear; and those in our keeping, though they heard it
well enough, yet durst give no answer to them.
They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that, as they
told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board again to their
ship, and let them know there that the men were all murdered,
and the long-boat staved: accordingly, they immediately launched
their boat again, and got all of them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed and even confounded at this,
believing they would go on board the ship again, and set sail,
giving their comrades up for lost, and so he should still lose the
ship, which he was in hopes we should have recovered; but he
was quickly as much frighted the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but we perceived
them all coming on shore again; but with this new measure in
their conduct, which it seems they consulted together upon, viz.,
to leave three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and
go up into the country to look for their fellows.
This was a great disappointment to us, for we were now at a
loss what to do; for our seizing those seven men on shore would
be no advantage to us, if we let the boat escape, because they
would then row away to the ship, and then the rest of them would
be sure to weigh and set sail, and so our recovery of the ship
would be lost
However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue
of things might present. The seven men came on shore, and the
three who remained in the boat put her off to a good distance
from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that
it was impossible for us to come at them in the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together, marching
towards the top of the little hill under which my habitation lay;
and we could see them plainly, though they could not perceive
us: we could have been very glad they would have come nearer
to us, so that we might have fired at them, or that they would
have gone farther off, that we might have come abroad.
231
But when they were come to the brow of the hill, where they
could see a great way into the valleys and woods, which lay
towards the north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they
shouted and hallooed till they were weary; and not caring, it
seems, to venture far from the shore, nor far from one another,
they sat down together under a tree, to consider of it. Had they
thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as the other party of
them had done, they had done the job for us; but they were too
full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep, though
they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this con-
sultation of theirs, viz., that perhaps they would all fire a volley
again, to endeavour to make their fellows hear, and that we
should all sally upon them, just at the juncture when their pieces
were all discharged, and they would certainly yield, and we
should have them without bloodshed. I liked this proposal, pro-
vided it was done while we were near enough to come up to
them before they could load their pieces again.
But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long time,
very irresolute what course to take. At length I told him there
would be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and then, if
they did not return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to
get between them and the shore, and so might use some strata-
gem with them in the boat to get them on shore.
We waited a great while, though very impatient for their remov-
ing, and were very uneasy, when, after long consultations, we saw
them all start up, and march down towards the sea: it seems they
had such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the danger of the
place, that they resolved to go on board the ship again, give their
companions over for lost, and so go on with their intended voyage
with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them to go towards the shore, I imagined
it to be, as it really was, that they had given over their search, and
were for going back again; and the captain, as soon as I told him
my thoughts, was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it; but I
presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and
which answered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over the little
creek westward, towards the place where the savages came on
shore when Friday was rescued, and as soon as they came to a
little rising ground, at about half a mile's distance, I bade them
halloo as loud as they could, and wait till they found the seamen
heard them; that as soon as ever they heard the seamen answer
them, they should return it again, and then, keeping out of sight,
take a round, always answering them when the others hallooed,
to draw them as far into the island, and among the woods, as
possible, and then wheel about again to me, by such ways as I
directed.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate
hallooed; and they presently heard them, and answering, ran
along the shore westward, towards the voice they heard, when
they were presently stopped by the creek, where, the water being
up, they could not get over, and called for the boat to come up
and set them over,—as, indeed, I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat
being gone a good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a harbour
within the land, they took one of the three men out of her to go
along with them, and left only two in the boat, having fastened her
to the stump of a little tree on the shore.
This was what I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday
and the captain's mate to their business, I took the rest with me,
and crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men
before they were aware,—one of them lying on the shore, and the
other being in the boat: the fellow on shore was between sleeping
and waking, and, going to start up, the captain, who was foremost,
ran in upon him, and knocked him down, and then called out to
him in the boat to yield, or he was a dead man.
There needed very few arguments to persuade a single man to
yield, when he saw five men upon him, and his comrade knocked
down; besides, this was, it seems, one of the three who were not
so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was
easily persuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to join very
sincerely with us.
In the meantime, Friday and the captain's mate so well managed
their business with the rest, that they drew them, by hallooing and
answering, from one hill to another, and from one wood to another,
till they not only heartily tired them, but left them where they were
very sure they could not reach back to the boat before it was dark;
and indeed they were heartily tired themselves also by the time
they came back to us.
233
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark,
and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them.
It was several hours after Friday came back to me before they
came back to their boat, and we could hear the foremost of them,
long before they came quite up, calling to those behind to come
along, and could also hear them answer, and complain how lame
and tired they were, and not able to come any faster, which was
very welcome news to us.
At length they came up to the boat; but it is impossible to
express their confusion when they found the boat fast aground in
the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. We could
hear them call to one another in a most lamentable manner, telling
one another they were gotten into an enchanted island; that either
there were inhabitants in it, and they should all be murdered, or
else there were devils or spirits in it, and they should be all carried
away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two comrades by their
names a great many times; but no answer: after some time, we
could see them by the little light there was, run about, wringing
their hands like men in despair, and that sometimes they would
go and sit down in the boat to rest themselves, then come ashore
again, and walk about again, and so the same thing over again.
My men would fain have had me give them leave to fall upon
them in the dark; but I was willing to take them at some advan-
tage, so to spare them, and kill as few of them as I could: and
especially I was unwilling to hazard the killing any of our men,
knowing the others were very well armed. I resolved to wait, to
see if they did not separate; and, therefore, to make sure of them,
I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain
to creep upon their hands and feet as close to the ground as they
could, that they might not be discovered, and get as near them as
they could possibly, before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, when the boatswain,
who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and had now shown
himself the most dejected and dispirited of all the rest, came walking
towards them with two more of the crew : the captain was so eager
at having the principal rogue so much in his power, that he could
hardly have patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him,
for they only heard his tongue before: but when they came nearer,
the captain and Friday, starting upon their feet, let fly at them.
ADVENTURES OF
The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next man was shot
in the body, and fell just by him, though he did not die till an hour
or two after; and the third ran for it.
At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced with my whole
army, which was now eight men, viz., myself, generalissimo; Friday,
my lieutenant-general; the captain and his two men, and the three prisoners of war, whom we had trusted with arms.
We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not
see our number; and I made the man they had left in the boat,
who was now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could
bring them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to terms,
which fell out just as we desired, for, indeed, it was easy to think,
as their condition then was, they would be very willing to capitu-
late. So he calls out, as loud as he could, to one of them, "Tom
Smith! Tom Smith I" Tom Smith answered immediately, "Who's
that? Robinson?" For it seems he knew the voice. The other
answered, "Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your
arms and yield, or you are all dead men this moment"
"Who must we yield to? Where are they?" says Smith,
again. "Here they are," says he, "here's our captain and fifty
men with him, have been hunting you these two hours: the boat-
swain is killed, Will Fry is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and
if you do not yield, you are all lost." "Will they give us quarter
then ?" says Tom Smith, "and we will yield."—" I will go ask, if you promise to yield," says Robinson. So he asked the captain;
and the captain himself then calls out, "You, Smith, you know
my voice; if you lay down your arms immediately, and submit,
you shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins."
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, captain, give
me quarter; what have I done? they have all been as bad as I,"—
which by the way was not true neither, for it seems this Will Atkins
was the first man that laid hold of the captain when they first
mutinied, and used him barbarously, in tying his hands, and giving
him injurious language. However, the captain told him he must
lay down his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy,
by which he meant me, for they all called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their
lives; and I sent the man who had parleyed with them, and two
more, who bound them all: and then my great army of fifty
men, which, particularly with those three, were in all but eight,
23s
came up and seized upon them all, and upon their boat, only that
I kept myself and one more out of sight for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think of seizing
the ship; and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley
with them, he expostulated with them upon the villany of their
practices with him, and at length upon the further wickedness of
their design, and how certainly it must bring them to misery and
distress in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for their
lives. As for that, he told them they were none of his prisoners,
but the commander's of the island; that they thought they
had set him on shore in a barren, uninhabited island, but it
had pleased God so to direct them, that the island was inhabited,
and that the governor was an Englishman; that he might hang
them all there, if he pleased; but, as he had given them all
quarter, he supposed he would send them to England, to be
dealt with there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was
commanded by the governor to advise to prepare for death, for that he would be hanged in the morning.
Though all this was but a fiction of his own, yet it had its
desired effect: Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg the captain to
intercede with the governor for his life; and all the rest begged
of him, for God's sake, that they might not be sent to England.
It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was
come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these
fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship; so I
retired in the dark from them, that they might not see what kind
of a governor they had, and called the captain to me: when I
called, as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to speak
again, and say to the captain, "Captain, the commander calls for
you ;" and presently the captain replied, "Tell his excellency I
am just a-coming." This more perfectly amused them, and they
all believed that the commander was just by with his fifty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my project for
seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and resolved
to put it in execution the next morning.
But in order to execute it with more heart, and to be secure
of success, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and that he
should go and take Atkins and two more of the worst of them,
and send them pinioned to the cave where the others lay. This
was committed to Friday and the two men who came on shore
with the captain.
They conveyed them to the cave as to a prison; and it was,
indeed, a dismal place, especially to men in their condition.
The others I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I
have given a full description; and as it was fenced in, and they
pinioned, the place was secure enough, considering they were
upon their behaviour. To these in the morning I sent the captain,
who was to enter into a parley with them,—in a word, to try them,
and tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or no to go
on board and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the injury
done him, of the condition they were brought to, and that though
the governor had given them quarter for their lives as to the pre-
sent action, yet that if they were sent to England, they would all
be hanged in chains, to be sure; but that if they would join in
such an attempt as to recover the ship, he would have the gover-
nor's engagement for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be
accepted by men in their condition; they fell down on their
knees to the captain, and promised, with the deepest imprecations,
that they would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that they
should owe their lives to him, and would go with him all over the
world; that they would own him for a father as long as they lived
.
"Well," says the captain, " 1 must go and tell the governor what
you say, and see what I can do to bring him to consent to it." So he brought me an account of the temper he found them in,
and that he verily believed they would be faithful.
However, that we might be very secure, I told him he should
go back again and choose out five, and tell them that they might
see he did not want men, but that he would take out those five to
be his assistants, and that the governor would keep the other two,
and the three that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave) as
hostages for the fidelity of those five; and that, if they proved
unfaithful in the execution, the five hostages should be hanged in
chains alive on the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that the governor was
in earnest: however, they had no way left them but to accept it;
and it was now the business of the prisoners, as much as of the
captain, to persuade the other five to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition:—x.
The captain, his mate, and passenger.—2. Then the two prisoners
of the first gang, to whom, having their characters from the captain,
I had given their liberty, and trusted them with arms.—3. The
other two that I had kept till now in my bower pinioned, but,
upon the captain's motion, had now released.—4. These five
released at last; so that they were twelve in all, besides five we
kept prisoners in the cave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these hands
on board the ship; but as for me and my man Friday, I did
not think it was proper for us to stir, having seven men left
behind: and it was employment enough for us to keep them
asunder, and supply them with victuals.
As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast, but
Friday went in twice a day to them, to supply them with neces-
saries; and I made the other two carry provisions to a certain
distance, where Friday was to take it.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the
captain, who told them I was the person the governor had ordered
to look after them, and that it was the governor's pleasure they
should not stir anywhere but by my direction; that if they did,
they should be fetched into the castle, and be laid in irons : -so
that, as we never suffered them to see me as a governor, I now
appeared as another person, and spoke of the governor, the
garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish
his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made
his passenger captain of one, with four of the men; and himself,
his mate, and five more, went in the other: and they contrived
their business very well, for they came up to the ship about mid-
night. As soon as they came within call of the ship, he made
Robinson hail them, and tell them they had brought off the men
and the boat, but that it was a long time before they had found
them, and the like, holding them in a chat till they came to the
ship's side; when the captain and the mate entering first, with
their arms, immediately knocked down the second mate and car-
penter with the butt end of their muskets. Being very faithfully
seconded by their men, they secured all the rest that were upon
the main and quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches, to
keep them down that were below; when the other boat and their
men, entering at the fore-chains, secured the forecastle of the ship
ADVENTURES OF
and the scuttle which went down into the cockroom, making
three men they found there prisoners. When this was done, and
all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the mate, with three men,
to break into the round house, where the new rebel captain lay, who
having taken the alarm, had got up, and with two men and a boy
had gotten firearms in their hands; and when the mate, with a
crow, split open the door, the new captain and his men fired boldly
among them,and wounded the mate with a musket ball, which broke
his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody.
The mate, calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-
house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot the new
captain through the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and
came out again behind one of his ears, so that he never spoke a
word: upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken
effectually, without any more lives lost. As soon as the ship was
thus secured, the captain ordered seven guns to be fired, which was
the signal agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success,
which you may be sure I was very glad to hear, having sat watch-
ing upon the shore for it till near two o'clock in the morning.
Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down; and it
having been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till
I was something surprised at the noise of a gun: and presently
starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of "Governor,
Governor," and presently I knew the captain's voice,—when
climbing up to the top of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to
the ship, he embraced me in his arms. "My dear friend and
deliverer," says he, "there's your ship, for she is all yours, and so
are we, and all that belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship
and there she rode within little more than half a mile of the
shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they were
masters of her. and the weather being fair, had brought her to an
anchor just against the mouth of a little creek; and the tide
being up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near the place
where I first landed my rafts, and so landed just at my door.
I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise; for I saw
my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands, all things easy,
and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither I pleased to
go. At first, for some time, I was not able to answer him one
word; but as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him,
or I should have fallen to the ground.
239
He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulls a bottle out
of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial, which he had
brought on purpose for me. After I drank it, I sat down on the
ground; and though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good
while before I could speak a word to him.
All this time the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as I, only
not under any surprise, as I was; and he said a thousand kind
and tender things to me, to compose and bring me to myself:
but such was the flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my
spirits into confusion; at last it broke out into tears, and in a
'ittle while after I recovered my speech.
Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer, and
we rejoiced together. I told him I looked upon him as a man
sent from Heaven to deliver me, and that the whole transaction
seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such things as these were
the testimonies we had of a secret hand of Providence governing
the world, and an evidence that the eyes of an Infinite Power
could search into the remotest corner of the world, and send help
to the miserable whenever He pleased.
I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to Heaven;
and what heart could forbear to bless Him who had not only in
a miraculous manner provided for me in such a wilderness, and
in such a desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance
must always be acknowledged to proceed?
When we had talked a while, the captain told me he had
brought me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded,
and such as the wretches that had been so long his masters had
not plundered him of. Upon this he called aloud to the boat,
and bade his men bring the things ashore that were for the
governor; and, indeed, it was a present as if I had been one that
was not to be carried away with them, but as if I had been to
dwell upon the island still.
First, he brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial
waters; six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two
quarts each); two pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good
pieces of the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of
peas, and about a hundred weight of biscuit: he brought also a
box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles
of lime juice, and abundance of other things. But, besides these,
and what was a thousand times more useful to me, he brought
ADVENTURES OF
me six clean new shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair of
gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings, with a
very good suit of clothes of his own, which had been worn but
very little; in a word, he clothed me from head to foot
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one may
imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was any thing in
the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy, as it
was to me to wear such clothes at their first putting on.
After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good things
were brought into my little apartment, we began to consult what
was to be done with the prisoners we had: for it was worth
considering whether we might venture to take them away with us
or no,—especially two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible
and refractory to the last degree; and the captain said he knew
they were such rogues, that there was no obliging them, and if he
did carry them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to be
delivered over to justice at the first English colony he could
come at; and I found that the captain himself was very anxious
about it Upon this I told him, that if he desired it, I durst
undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it their own
request that he should leave them upon the island. "I should be
very glad of that," says the captain, "with all my heart."
"Well," says I, "I will send for them up, and talk with them
for you." So I caused Friday and the two hostages, for they were
now discharged, their comrades having performed their promise,
—I say, I caused them to go to the cave, and bring up the five
men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keep them there
till I came. After some time, I came thither dressed in my new
habit; and now I was called governor again. Being all met, and
the captain with me, I caused the men to be brought before me,
and I told them I had had a full account of their villanous be-
haviour to the captain, and how they had run away with the ship,
and were preparing to commit further robberies, but that Providence
had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they were fallen into the pit which they had digged for others.
I let them know that by my direction the ship had been seized,
that she lay now in the road, and they might see, by and by, that
their new captain had received the reward of his villany, for that
they would see him hanging at the yard-arm: that as to them, I
wanted to know what they had to say why I should not execute
241
them as pirates taken in the fact, as by my commission they could
not doubt I had authority to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had
nothing to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain
promised them their lives, and they humbly implored my mercy;
but I told them I knew not what mercy to show them, for, as for
myself, I had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had
taken passage with the captain to go for England; and as for the
captain, he could not carry them to England, other than as prisoners
in irons, to be tried for mutiny and running away with the ship—
the consequence of which they must needs know would be the
gallows; so that I could not tell what was best for them, unless
they had a mind to take their fate in the island: if they desired
that, as I had liberty to leave it, I had some inclination to give
them their lives, if they thought they could shift on shore.
They seemed very thankful for it, and said they would much
rather venture to stay there than be carried to England to be
hanged; so I left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, as if
he durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little angry
with the captain, and told him that they were my prisoners, not
his; that, seeing I had offered them so much favour, I would be
as good as my word; and that if he did not think fit to consent to
it, I would set them at liberty as I found them; and if he did not
like that, he might take them again if he could catch them.
Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set
them at liberty, and bade them retire into the woods to the place
whence they came, and I would leave them some firearms, some
ammunition, and some directions how they should live very well,
if they thought fit
Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship, but told the
captain that I would stay that night to prepare my things, and
desired him to go on board in the meantime, and keep all right
in the ship, and send the boat on shore the next day for me,—
ordering him in the meantime to cause the new captain, who was
killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me to my
apartment, and entered seriously into discourse with them of their
circumstances. I told them I thought they had made a right
choice; that if the captain carried them away, they would certainly
Q
be hanged. I showed them the new captain hanging at the yard-
arm of the ship, and told them they had nothing less to expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then told
them I would let them into the story of my living there, and put
them into the way of making it easy to them: accordingly, I gave
them the whole history of the place, and of my coming to it;
showed them my fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted
my corn, cured my grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary
to make them easy. I told them the story also of the fifteen
Spaniards that were to be expected, for whom I left a letter, and
made them promise to treat them in common with themselves.
I left them my firearms, viz., five muskets, three fowling-pieces,
and three swords. I had about a barrel and a half of powder left;
for after the first year or two I used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a description of the way I managed the goats, and
directions to milk and fatten them, and to make both butter and
cheese: in a word, I gave them every part of my own story, and
I told them I should prevail with the captain to leave them two
barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden seeds, which I told
them I would have been very glad of: also I gave them the bag
of peas which the captain had brought me to eat, and bade them
be sure to sow and increase them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on
board the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not
weigh that night. The next morning early, two of the five men
came swimming to the ship's side, and making a most lamentable
complaint of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship, for
God's sake, for they should be murdered, and begged the captain
to take them on board, though he hanged them immediately.
Upon this, the captain pretended to have no power without
me; but after some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of
amendment, they were taken on board, and were some time after
soundly whipped and pickled, after which they proved very
honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore, the tide
being up, with the things promised to the men, to which the
captain, at my intercession, caused their chests and clothes to be
added, which they took, and were very thankful for. I also
encouraged them, by telling them that if it lay in my way to send
any vessol to take them in, I would not forget them.
Crusoe arrives in England, and finds that most of his relations are dead, and that
his benefactor and steward has fallen into misfortune—He goes to Lisbon,
where he makes himself known to the captain of the ship who took him up at
sea, and is put in the way of recovering his property in the Brazils—His posses-
sions are restored, and he finds himself a wealthy man—Makes arrangements
for the conduct of his estate, and sets out for England by way of Spain—An
encounter with wolves—Friday makes merry with a bear—Crusoe arrives in
England, and settles there.

HEN I took leave of this island, I carried on board for
reliques, the great goat-skin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and one of my parrots; also I forgot not
to take the money I formerly mentioned, which had
lain by me so long useless, that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it had been a little
rubbed and handled; as also the money I found in the wreck of
the Spanish ship.
And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as I found
by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon it
eight and twenty years, two months, and nineteen days; being
delivered from the second captivity the same day of the month
that I first made my escape in the barcolongo, from among the
Moors of Sallee. In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in
England the nth of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty and
five years absent When I came to England, I was as perfect a
stranger to all the world as if I had never been known there. My
benefactor and faithful steward, whom I had left in trust with my
money, was alive, but had had great misfortunes in the world—
was become a widow the second time, and very low in the world.
I made her very easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I would
give her no trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude for her former
care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my little stock would
ADVENTURES OF
afford, which at that time would indeed allow me to do but little
for her: but I assured her I would never forget her former kind-
ness to me,—nor did I forget her when I had sufficient to help
her, as shall be observed in its proper place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father was dead,
and my mother and all the family extinct, except that I found two
sisters, and two of the children of one of my brothers; and as I
had been long ago given over for dead, there had been no provi-
sion made for me: so that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve
or assist me; and that little money I had would not do much for
me as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not
expect; and this was, that the master of the ship whom I had so
happily delivered, and by the same means saved the ship and cargo,
having given a very handsome account to the owners of the
manner how I had saved the lives of the men, and the ship, they
invited me to meet them and some other merchants concerned, and
altogether made me a very handsome compliment upon that subject,
and a present of almost two hundred pounds sterling.
But after making several reflections upon the circumstances of
my life, and how little way this would go towards settling me in
the world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come
by some information of the state of my plantation in the Brazils,
and of what was become of my partner, who, I had reason to
suppose, had some years now given me over for dead.
With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in
April following; my man Friday accompanying me very honestly
in all these ramblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all
occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my
particular satisfaction, my old friend the captain of the ship who
first took me up at sea off the shore of Africa. He was now grown
old, and had left off the sea, having put his son, who was far from
a young man, into his ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The
old man did not know me, and, indeed, I hardly knew him; but
I soon brought him to my remembrance, and as soon brought my-
self to his remembrance, when I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance, I
inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation and my partner.
The old man told me he had not been in the Brazils for about
'45
nine years; but that he could assure me that, when he came away,
my partner was living, but the trustees whom I had joined with
him to take cognizance of my part, were both dead; that, however,
he believed I would have a very good account of the improvement
of the plantation, for that upon the general belief of my being cast
away and drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the
produce of my part of the plantation to the procurator-fiscal, who
had appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it, one-third to
the king, and two-thirds to the monastery of St Augustine, to be
expended for the benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of the
Indians to the Catholic faith; but that if I appeared, or any one
for me, to claim the inheritance, it would be restored,—only that the
improvement, or annual production, being distributed to charitable
uses, could not be restored. But he assured me that the steward
of the king's revenue from lands, and the provedore, or steward of
the monastery, had taken great care all along that the incumbent,
that is to say, my partner, gave every year a faithful account of the
produce, of which they received duly my moiety.
I asked him if he knew to what height of improvement he had
brought the plantation, and whether he thought it might be worth
looking after, or whether, on my going thither, I should meet with
no obstruction to my possessing my just right in the moiety?
He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree the planta-
tion was improved; but this he knew, that my partner was grown
exceeding rich upon the enjoying but one-half of it, and that, to
the best of his remembrance, he had heard that the king's third of
my part, which was, it seems, granted away to some other monastery
or religious house, amounted to above two hundred moidores a-year:
that, as to my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there was
no question to be made of that, my partner being alive to witness
my title, and my name being also enrolled in the register of the
country. Also he told me that the survivors of my two trustees
were very fair, honest people, and very wealthy; and he believed
I would not only have their assistance for putting me in possession,
but would find a very considerable sum of money in their hands
for my account, being the produce of the farm while their fathers
held the trust, and before it was given up, as above,—which, as he
remembered, was for about twelve years.
I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account,
and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the
ABVENTURES OF
trustees should thus dispose of my effects, when he knew that I
had made my will, and had made him, the Portuguese captain,
my universal heir, &c.
He told me that was true, but that, as there was no proof of
my being dead, he could not act as executor, until some certain
account should come of my death; and that, besides, he was not
willing to intermeddle with a'thing so remote; that it was true he
had registered my will, and put in his claim, and, could he have
given any account of my being dead or alive, he would have acted
by procuration, and taken possession of the ingenio (so they called
the sugar-house), and have given his son, who was now at the
Brazils, order to do it "But," says the old man, "I have one
piece of news to tell you, which, perhaps, may not be so accept-
able to you as the rest; and that is, that, believing you were lost,
and all the world believing so also, your partner and trustees did
offer to account to me in your name for six or eight of the first
years of profit, which I received; but there being at that time,"
says he, "great disbursements for increasing the works, building
an ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near so much
as afterwards it produced . However," says the old man, "I
shall give you a true account of what I have received in all, and
how I have disposed of it."
After a few days' farther conference with this ancient friend, he
brought me an account of the first six years' income of my planta-
tion, signed by my partner and the merchant trustees, being
always delivered in goods, viz., tobacco in roll, and sugar in
chests, besides rum, molasses, &c., which is the consequence of a
sugar-work: and I found by this account, that every year the
income considerably increased; but, as above, the disbursements
being large, the sum at first was small. However, the old man
let me see that he was debtor to me four hundred and seventy
moidores of gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen double
rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship, he having been ship-
wrecked coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years after my
leaving the place.
The good man then began to complain of his misfortunes, and
how he had been obliged to make use of my money to recover his
losses, and buy him a share in a new ship. "However, my old
friend," says he, "you shall not want a supply in your necessity;
and as soon as my son returns, you shall be fully satisfied." Upon
247
this, he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me one hundred and
sixty Portugal moidores in gold, and giving me the writings of his
title to the ship, which his son was gone to the Brazils in, of
which he was a quarter part owner, and his son another, he puts
them both into my hands for security of the rest
I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the
poor man to be able to bear this; and, remembering what he had
done for me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generously
he had used me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a
friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what
he had said to me; therefore first I asked him if his circumstances
admitted him to spare so much money at that time, and if it
would not straiten him? He told me he could not say but it
might straiten him a little; but, however, it was my money, and
I might want it more than he.
Everything the good man said was full of affection, and 1 could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke; in short, I took
one hundred of the moidores, and called for a pen and ink to
give him a receipt for them : then I returned him the rest, and told
him if ever I had possession of the plantation, I would return the
other to him also (as, indeed, I afterwards did); and that, as to
the bill of sail of his part in his son's ship, I would not take it by
any means, but that if I wanted the money, I found he was honest
enough to pay me; and, if I did not, but came to receive what he gave
me reason to expect, I would never have a penny more from him.
When this was past, the old man began to ask me if he should
put me on a method to make my claim to my plantation? I told
him I thought to go over to it myself. He said I might do so, if
I pleased, but that, if I did not, there were ways enough to secure
my right, and immediately to appropriate the profits to my use;
and as there were ships in the river of Lisbon just ready to go
away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a public register,
with this affidavit, affirming upon oath that I was alive, and that
I was the same person who took up the land for the planting the
said plantation at first This being regularly attested by a notary,
and a procuration affixed, he diiected me to send it, with a letter of
his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at the place, and then
proposed my staying with him till an account came of the retura
Never anything was more honourable than the proceedings upon
this procuration; for in less than seven months I received a large
ADVENTURES OF
packet from the survivors of my trustees, the merchants, on whose
account I went to sea, in which were the following particular
letters and papers enclosed :—
First, There was the account-current of the produce of my farm
or plantation, from the year when their fathers had balanced with my
old Portugal captain, being for six years: the balance appeared to be
one thousand one hundred and seventy-four moidores in my favour.
Secondly, There was the account of four years more, while they
kept the effects in their hands, before the government claimed the
administration, as being the effects of a person not to be found,
which they called civil death; and the balance of this, the value
of the plantation increasing, amounted to nineteen thousand four
hundred crusadoes, being about three thousand two hundred and
forty-one moidores.
Thirdly, There was the prior of the Augustine's account, who
had received the profits for above fourteen years; but not being
able to account for what was disposed to the hospital, very honestly
declared he had eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not dis-
tributed, which he acknowledged to my account: as to the king's
part, that refunded nothing.
There was also a letter of my partner's congratulating me very
affectionately upon my being alive, giving me an account how the
estate was improved, and what it produced a year: with a particular
of the number of squares or acres that it contained, how planted, how
many slaves there were upon it, and making two and twenty crosses
for blessings, told me he had said so many "Ave Marias " to thank
the blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me very passionately
to come over and take possession of my own; and in the meantime,
to give him orders to whom he should deliver my effects, if I did
not come myself; concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship,
and that of his family: and sent me, as a present, seven fine
leopards' skins; which he had, it seems, received from Africa, by
some other ship that he had sent thither, and who, it seems, had
made a better voyage than I. He sent me also five chests of
excellent sweetmeats, and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not
quite so large as moidores.
By the same fleet, my merchant trustees shipped me twelve
hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of tobacco, and the
rest of the whole account in gold
.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was
249
better than the beginning. It is impossible to express the flutterings
of my very heart, when I looked over these letters, and especially
when I found all my wealth about me; for as the Brazil ships come
all in fleets, the same ships which brought my letters brought my
goods, and the effects were safe in the river before the letters came
to my hand . In a word I turned pale, and grew sick; and had not
the old man run and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden sur-
prise of joy had overset nature, and I had died upon the spot Nay,
after that I continued very ill, and was so some hours, till, a physician
being sent for and something of the real cause of my illness being
known, he ordered me to be let blood, after which I had relief,
and grew well; but I verily believe, if it had not been eased by the
vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should have died
.
I was now master, all on a sudden, of above fifty thousand
pounds sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call
it, in the Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a-year, as sure as an
estate of lands in England; and, in a word, I was in a condition
which I scarce knew how to understand, or how to compose myself
for the enjoyment of. The first thing I did was to recompense
my original benefactor, my good old captain, who had been first
charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in the beginning, and
honest to me at the end . I showed him all that was sent to me;
I told him that next to the Providence of Heaven, which disposes
all things, it was owing to him; and that it now lay on me to
reward him, which I would do an hundredfold: so I first returned
to him the hundred moidores I had received of him; then I sent
for a notary, and caused him to draw up a general release or dis-
charge for the four hundred and seventy moidores which he had
acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and firmest manner pos-
sible. After which I caused a procuration to be drawn, empowering
him to be my receiver of the annual profits of my plantation, and
appointing my partner to account to him, and make the returns
by the usual fleets to him in my name; and a clause in the end,
being a grant of one hundred moidores a-year to him during his
life, out of the effects, and fifty moidores a year to his son after
him, for his life; and thus I requited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course next, and
what to do with the estate that Providence had thus put into my
hands; and, indeed, I had more care upon my head now than I
had in my silent state of life in the island, where I wanted nothing
ADVENTURES OF
but what I had, and had nothing but what I wanted; whereas, I
had now a great charge upon me, and my business was how to secure it I had never a cave now to hide my money in, or a
place where it might lie without lock or key, till it grew mouldy
and tarnished before anybody would meddle with it; on the con-
trary, I knew not where to put it, or whom to trust with it. My
old patron, the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only
refuge I had
.
In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed to summon
me thither; but now I could not tell how to think of going thither
till I had settled my affairs, and left my effects in some safe hands
behind me. At first I thought of my old friend the widow, who I
knew was honest, and would be just to me; but then she was in
years, and but poor, and, for aught I knew, might be in debt: so
that, in a word, I had no way but to go back to England myself,
and take my effects with me.
It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this; and,
therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to his satis-
faction, who had been my former benefactor, so I began to think
of my poor widow, whose husband had been my first benefactor,
and she, while it was in her power, my faithful steward and instructor.
So the first thing I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon to write to his
correspondent in London, not only to pay a bill, but to go find her
out, and carry her in money a hundred pounds from me, and to
talk with her, and comfort her in her poverty, by telling her she
should, if I lived, have a further supply: at the same time I sent
my two sisters in the country a hundred pounds each, they being,
though not in want, yet not in very good circumstances—one
having been married and left a widow, and the other having a
husband not so kind to her as he should be.
But among all my relations or acquaintances, I could not yet
pitch upon one to whom I durst commit the gross of my stock, that
I might go away to the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me;
and this greatly perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have settled
myself there,—for I was, as it were, naturalised to the place; but
I had some little scruple in my mind about religion, which insen-
sibly drew me back . However, it was not religion that kept me
from going thither for the present; and as I had made no scruple of
being openly of the religion of the country all the while I was among
25*
them, so neither did I yet; only that, now and then, having of late
thought more of it than formerly, when I began to think of living and
dying among them, I began to regret my having professed myself a
Papist, and thought it might not be the best religion to die in.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept me from
going to the Brazils, but that really I did not know with whom to
leave my effects behind me: so I resolved, at last, to go to England
with them, where, if I arrived, I concluded I should make some
acquaintance, or find some relations that would be faithful to me;
and, accordingly, I prepared to go to England with all my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I first—the Brazil
fleet being just going away—resolved to give answers suitable to the
just and faithful account of things I had from thence; and, first, to
the prior of St Augustine I wrote a letter full of thanks for his just
dealings, and the offer of the eight hundred and seventy-two moi-
dores which were undisposed of, which I desired might be given,
five hundred to the monastery, and three hundred and seventy-two
to the poor, as the prior should direct; desiring the good padre's
prayers for me, and the like.
I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all the
acknowledgment that so much justice and honesty called for; as
for sending them any present, they were far above having any
occasion of it
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his industry in the
improving the plantation, and his integrity in increasing the stock
of the works; giving him instructions for his future government of
my part, according to the powers I had left with my old patron, to
whom I desired him to send whatever came due to me, till he should
hear from me more particularly; assuring him that it was my inten-
tion not only to come to him, but to settle myself there for the
remainder of my life. To this I added a very handsome present
of some Italian silks for his wife and two daughters, for such the
captain's son informed me he had; with two pieces of fine English
broadcloth, the best I could get in Lisbon, five pieces of black
baize, and some Flanders lace of a good value.
Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my
effects into good bills of exchange, my next difficulty was, which way
to go to England: I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and
yet I had a strange aversion to go to England by sea at that time;
and though I could give no reason for it, yet the difficulty increased
ADVENTURES OF
upon me so much, that, though I had once shipped my baggage
in order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but two
or three times.
It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this might
be one of the reasons; but let no man slight the strong impulses
of his own thoughts in cases of such moment: two of the ships
which I had singled out to go in,—I mean more particularly
singled out than any other, having put my things on board one of
them, and, in the other, agreed with the captain; I say, two of
these ship miscarried, viz., one was taken by the Algerines, and
the other was cast away on the Start, near Torbay, and all the
people drowned, except three; so that in either of those vessels I
had been made miserable, and in which most, it was hard to say.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to
whom I communicated everything, pressed me earnestly not to go
by sea, but either to go by land to the Groyne (Corunna), and cross
over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy
and safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover; or
to go up to Madrid, and so all the way by land through France.
In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going by sea at
all, except from Calais to Dover, that I resolved to travel all the
way by land; which, as I was not in haste, and did not value the
charge, was by much the pleasanter way: and to make it more so,
my old captain brought an English gentleman, the son of a
merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me; after
which we picked up two English merchants and two young
Portuguese gentlemen, the last going to Paris only; so that in all
there were six of us, and five servants,—the two merchants and
the two Portuguese contenting themselves with one servant be-
tween two, to save the charge. As for me, I got an English sailor
to travel with me as a servant, besides my man Friday, who was
too much a stranger to be capable of supplying the place of a
servant on the road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our company being
very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof
they did me the honour to call me captain, as well because I was
the oldest man, as because I had two servants, and, indeed, was
the original of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I shall
trouble you now with none of my land journals; but some adven-
253
turus that happened to us in this tedious and difficult journey I
must not omit
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to Spain,
were willing to stay some time to see the court of Spain, and to
see what was worth observing; but it being the latter part of the
summer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the
middle of October. But when we came to the edge of Navarre,
we were alarmed, at several towns on the way, with an account
that so much snow was fallen on the French side of the mountains,
that several travellers were obliged to come back to Pampeluna,
after having attempted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so, indeed;
and to me, that had been always used to a hot climate, and to
countries where I could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was
insufferable: nor, indeed, was it more painful than surprising, to
come but ten days before out of Old Castile, where the weather
was not only warm, but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind
from the Pyrenean mountains, so very keen, so severely cold, as
to be intolerable, and to endanger the benumbing and perishing
of our fingers and toes. Poor Friday was really frighted when he
saw the mountains all covered with snow, and felt cold weather,
which he had never seen or felt before in his life.
To mend the matter, when we came to Pampeluna, it continued
snowing with so much violence, and so long, that the people said
winter was come before its time; and the roads, which were
difficult before, were now quite impassable: for, in a word, the
snow lay in some places too thick for us to travel, and being not
hard frozen, as is the case in the northern countries, there was no
going without being in danger of being buried alive every step.
We stayed no less than twenty days at Pampeluna; when, seeing
the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it
was the severest winter all over Europe that had been known in
the memory of man, I proposed that we should all go away to
Fontarabia, and there take shipping for Bourdeaux, which was a
very little voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came in four French
gentlemen, who having been stopped on the French side of the
passes, as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who, tra-
versing the country near the head of Languedoc, had brought them
over the mountains by such ways that they were not much incom-
ADVENTURES OF
moded with the snow, and, where they met with snow in any quantity,
they said it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertake to carry
us the same way with no hazard from the snow, provided we were
armed sufficiently to protect ourselves from wild beasts; for, he
said, upon these great snows it was frequent for some wolves to
show themselves at the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous
for want of food, the ground being covered with snow. We told
him we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they
were, if he would insure us from a kind of two-legged wolves,
which, we were told, we were in most danger from, especially on
the French side of the mountains. He satisfied us there was no
danger of that kind in the way that we were to go; so we readily
agreed to follow him, as did also twelve other gentlemen, with
their servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had
attempted to go, and were obliged to come back again.
Accordingly, we all set out from Pampeluna, with our guide, on
the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead
of going forward, he came directly back with us on the same road
that we came from Madrid, above twenty miles, when, having
passed two rivers, and come into the plain country, we found our-
selves in a warm climate again, where the country was pleasant,
and no snow to be seen; but on a sudden turning to his left, he
approached the mountains another way, and though it is true the
hills and precipices looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours,
such meanders, and led us by such winding ways, we insensibly
passed the height of the mountains without being much encumbered
with the snow; and all on a sudden he showed us the pleasant
fruitful provinces of Languedoc and Gascoigne, all green and
flourishing, though, indeed, at a great distance, and we had some
rough way to pass yet
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one
whole day and a night so fast that we could not travel; but he
bade us be easy, we should soon be past it all . We found, indeed,
that we began to descend every day, and to come more north
than before; and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.
It was about two hours before night, when, our guide being
something before us and not just in sight, out rushed three
monstrous wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way
adjoining to a thick wood. Two of the wolves flew upon the
»
guide, and had he been half-a-mile before us, he had been
devoured, indeed, before we could have helped him: one of them
fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked the man with that
violence, that he had not time, or not presence of mind enough,
to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us most lustily.
My man Friday being next me, I bade him ride up, and see what
was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of the man, he
hallooed out as loud as the other, "O master! O master !" but,
like a bold fellow, rode up directly to the man, and with his pistol
shot the wolf that attacked him in the head
.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday; for
he, having been used to such creatures in his country, had no fear
upon him, but went close up to him and shot him, as above : where-
as, any other of us would have fired at a greater distance, and have
perhaps either missed the wolf, or endangered shooting the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than I, and,
indeed, it alarmed all our company, when, with the noise of
Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the dismallest howlings of
wolves, and the noise redoubled by the echo of the mountains,
that it was to us as if there had been a prodigious multitude of
them; and, perhaps, indeed, there was not such a few as that we
had no cause of apprehension.
However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other that had
fastened upon the horse left him immediately, and fled, having
happily fastened upon his head, where the bosses of the bridle
stuck in his teeth, so that he had not done him much hurt: the
man, indeed, was most hurt, for the raging creature had bit him
twice, once on the arm, and the other time a little above his
knee, and he was just as it were tumbling down by the disorder of the horse, when Friday came up and shot the wolf.
It is easy to suppose that, at the noise of Friday's pistol, we all
mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very
difficult, would give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon
as we came clear of the trees which blinded us before, we saw clearly
what had been the case, and how Friday had disengaged the poor
guide, though we did not presently discern what kind of creature
it was he had killed
.
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such a sur-
prising manner, as that which followed between Friday and the
bear, which gave us all (though at first we were surprised and
ADVENTURES OF
afraid for him) the greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear is
a heavy, clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does,
which is swift and light, so he has two particular qualities which
generally are the rule of his actions; first, as to men, who are not
his proper prey—I say not his proper prey, because, though I
can't say what excessive hunger might do, which was now their case,
the ground being all covered with snow, yet as to men, he does
not usually attempt them, unless they first attack him; on the
contrary, if you meet him in the woods, if you don't meddle with
him, he won't meddle with you: but then you must take care to be
very civil to him, and give him the road, for he is a very nice gentleman: he won't go a step out of his way for a prince—nay, if you are
really afraid, your best way is to look another way, and keep going
on, for sometimes, if you stop and stand still, and look steadfastly
at him, he takes it for an affront, and if you throw or toss anything
at him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as big as
your finger, he takes it for an affront, and sets all other business
aside to pursue his revenge, for he will have satisfaction in point of
honour, and this is his first quality: the next is, that if he be once
affronted, he will never leave you, night nor day, till he has his
revenge, but follow at a good round rate till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up
to him, he was helping him off his horse, for the man was both
hurt and frighted—and, indeed, the last more than the first—
when, on a sudden, we espied the bear come out of the wood, and
a vast monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw.
We were all a little surprised when we saw him; but when Friday
saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's coun-
tenance. "O! O! O!" says Friday, three times, pointing to
him; "O master! you give me te leave, me shakee te hand with
him; me makee you good laugh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased . "You fool," says
I, "he will eat you up." "Eatee me up! eatee me up!" says
Friday, twice over again; "me eatee him up; me makee you good
laugh. You all stay here, me show you good laugh." So down
he sits, and gets his boots off in a moment, and puts on a pair of
pumps (as we call the flat shoes they wear), which he had in his
pocket, gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun away
he flew, swift like the wind
.
The bear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with no-
*57
body, till Friday, coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear
could understand him, "Hark ye, hark ye," says Friday, "me
speakee wit you." We followed at a distance, for now being come
down on the Gascoigne side of the mountains, we were entered a
vast great forest, where the country was plain and pretty open,
though many trees in it scattered here and there.
Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came up with
him quickly, and takes up a great stone and throws at him, and
hit him just on the head, but did him no more harm than if he
had thrown it against a wall; but it answered Friday's end, for the
rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely to make the bear
follow him, and show us some laugh, as he called it As soon as
the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he turns about, and comes
after him, taking devilish long strides, and shuffling along at a
strange rate, so as would put a horse to a middling gallop: away
runs Friday, and takes his course as if he ran towards us for help;
so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver my
man—though I was angry at him heartily for bringing the bear
back upon us, when he was going about his own business another
way; and especially I was angry that he had turned the bear
upon us, and then run away, and I called out, "You dog, is this
your making us laugh? Come away, and take your horse, that we
may shoot the creature." He hears me, and cries out, "No shoot,
no shoot; stand still, and you get much laugh;" and as the
nimble creature ran two feet for the beast's one, he turned on a
sudden on one side of us, and seeing a great oak tree fit for his
purpose, he beckoned us to follow, and, doubling his pace, he gets
nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground at about
five or six yards from the bottom of the tree.
The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a distance:
the first thing he did, he stopped at the gun, smelt to it, but let it
lie, and up he scrambles into the tree, climbing like a cat, though
so monstrously heavy. I was amazed at the folly, as I thought it,
of my man, and could not for my life see anything to laugh at
yet, till, seeing the bear get up the tree, we all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the
small of a large limb of the tree, and the bear got about half way
to him. As soon as the bear got out to that part where the limb
of the tree was weaker, "Ha!" says he to us, "now you see me
teachee the bear dance;" so he falls a jumping and shaking the
R
ADVENTURES OF
bough, at which the bear began to totter, but stood still, and
began to look behind him, to see how he should get back; then,
indeed, we did laugh heartily. But Friday had not done with him
by a great deal: when he sees him stand still, he calls out to him
again, as if he had supposed the bear could speak English, "What,
you come no farther? pray you come farther;" so he left jumping
and shaking the bough, and the bear, just as if he had understood
what he said, did come a little farther; then he fell a jumping
again, and the bear stopped again.
We thought now was a good time to knock him on the head,
and called to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the bear;
but he cried out earnestly, "O pray! O pray! no shoot, me shoot by
and then;"—he would have said, by and by. However, to shorten
the story, Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that
we had laughing enough indeed, but still could not imagine what
the fellow would do; for first we thought he depended upon shaking
the bear off, and we found the bear was too cunning for that too, for
he would not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast
with his great broad claws and feet, so that we could not imagine
what would be the end of it, and where the jest would be at last
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for, seeing the bear
cling fast to the bough, and that he would not be persuaded to
come any farther, "Well, well," says Friday, "you no come farther,
me go, me go; you no come to me, me come to you," and upon
this, he goes out to the smallest end of the bough, where it would
bend with his weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding
down the bough, till he came near enough to jump down on his
feet, and away he runs to his gun, takes it up, and stands still.
"Well," said I to him, "Friday, what will you do now? Why
don't you shoot him?" "No shoot," says Friday, "no yet; me
shoot now me no kill j me stay, give you one more laugh." And,
indeed, so he did, as you will see presently: for when the bear saw
his enemy gone, he comes back from the bough where he stood,
but did it mighty leisurely, looking behind him at every step, and
coming backward till he got into the body of the tree; then, with
the same hinder end foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it
with his claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leisurely. At
this juncture, and just before he could set his hind feet on the
ground, Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the muzzle of his
piece into his ear, and shot him dead as a stone.
259
Then the rogue turned about, to see if we did not laugh; and
when he saw we were pleased, by our looks, he falls a-laughing
himself very loud . "So we kill bear in my country," says Friday.
"So you kill them ?" says I; "why, you have no guns." "No,"
says he, "no gun, but shoot great much long arrow."
This was a good diversion to us; but we were still in a wild
place, and our guide very much hurt, and what to do we hardly
knew: the howling of wolves ran much in my head; and, indeed,
except the noise I once heard on the shore of Africa, of which I
have said something already, I never heard anything that filled
me with so much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or else, as
Friday would have had us, we should certainly have taken the
skin of this monstrous creature off, which was worth saving; but
we had near three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, so
we left him, and went forward on our journey.
The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep
and dangerous as on the mountains; and the ravenous creatures,
as we heard afterwards, were come down into the forest and plain
country, pressed by hunger, to seek for food, and had done a great
deal of mischief in the villages, where they surprised the country
people, killed a great many of their sheep and horses, and some
people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, of which our guide told
us, if there were more wolves in the country we should find them
there; and this was a small plain surrounded with woods on
every side, and a long narrow defile, or lane, which we were to
pass to get through the wood, and then we should come to the
village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of sunset when we entered the first
wood, and a little after sunset when we came into the plain. We
met with nothing in the first wood, except that, in a little plain
within the wood which was not above two furlongs over, we saw
five great wolves cross the road, full speed, one after another, as
if they had been in chase of some prey, and had it in view; they
took no notice of us, and were gone out of sight in a few moments.
Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was but a faint-hearted
fellow, bid us keep in a ready posture, for he believed there were
more wolves a-coming.
We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us; but we saw
ADVENTURES OF
no more wolves till we came through that wood, which was near
half a league, and entered the plain. As soon as we came into
the plain, we had occasion enough to look about us: the first
object we met with was a dead horse, that is to say, a poor horse
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of them at
work,—we could not say eating of him, but picking of his bones
rather, for they had eaten up all the flesh before
.
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast; neither did
they take much notice of us. Friday would have let fly at them,
but I would not suffer him by any means; for I found we were
like to have more business upon our hands than we were aware
of. We were not gone half over the plain when we began to hear
the wolves howl on our left in a frightful manner, and presently
after we saw about a hundred coming on directly towards us, all
in a body, and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up by an experienced officer. I scarce knew in what
manner to receive them, but found to draw ourselves in a close
line was the only way: so we formed in a moment But that we
might not have too much interval, I ordered that only every other
man should fire, and that the others who had not fired should stand
ready to give them a second volley immediately, if they continued
to advance upon us; and then that those who had fired at first
should not pretend to load their fusils again, but stand ready every
one with a pistol, for we were all armed with a fusil and a pair of
pistols each man; so we were by this method able to fire six
volleys, half of us at a time. However, at present, we had no
necessity; for upon firing the first volley, the enemy made a full
stop, being terrified as well with the noise as with the fire; four
of them, being shot in the head, dropped; several others were
wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could see by the snow.
I found they stopped, but did not immediately retreat; whereupon,
remembering that I had been told that the fiercest creatures were
terrified at the voice of a man, I caused all our company to halloo
as loud as they could: and I found the notion was not altogether
mistaken; for, upon our shout, they began to retire, and turn
about I then ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear,
which put them to the gallop, and away they went to the woods.
This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again; and that we
might lose no time, we kept going: but we had but little more
than loaded our fusils, and put ourselves in readiness, when we
heard a terrible noise in the same wood, on our left, only that it
was farther onward, the same way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky,
which made it worse on our side; but the noise increasing, we
could easily perceive that it was the howling and yelling of those
hellish creatures; and on a sudden, we perceived two or three
troops of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one in
our front, so that we seemed to be surrounded with them: how-
ever, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our way forward, as
fast as we could make our horses go, which, the way being very
rough, was only a good hard trot In this manner we came in
view of the entrance of the wood, through which we were to pass,
at the farther side of the plain; but we were greatly surprised,
when, coming near the lane or pass, we saw a confused number of
wolves standing just at the entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the
noise of a gun; and, looking that way, out rushed a horse, with
a saddle and bridle on him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or
seventeen wolves after him, full speed; indeed, the horse had the
heels of them, but as we supposed that he could not hold it at
that rate, we doubted not but they would get up with him at
last,—and no question but they did
.
Here we had a most horrible sight; for riding up to the
entrance where the horse came out, we found the carcass of
another horse and of two men, devoured by the ravenous creatures.
One of them was no doubt the same whom we heard fire a gun,
for there lay a gun just by him fired off; but as to the man, his
head and upper part of his body were eaten up.
This filled us with horror, and we knew not what course to
take, but the creatures resolved us soon, for they gathered about us
presently, in hopes of prey; and I verily believe that there were
three hundred of them. It happened very much to our advantage,
that, at the entrance into the wood, but at a little way from it,
there lay some large timber trees, which had been cut down the
summer before, and I suppose lay there for carriage. I drew my
little troop in among these trees, and placing ourselves in a line
behind one long tree, I advised them all to alight, and keeping
that tree before us for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or
three fronts, enclosing our horses in the centre.
We did so, and it was well we did; for never was a more
ADVENTURES OF
furious charge than the creatures made upon us in this place.
They came on with a growling kind of noise, and mounted the
piece of timber, which, as I said, was our breastwork, as if they
were only rushing upon their prey; and this fury of theirs, it
seems, was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses
behind us, which was the prey they aimed at I ordered our
men to fire as before, every other man; and they took their aim
so sure, that they killed several of the wolves at the first volley:
but there was a necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came
on like devils, those behind pushing on those before.
When we had fired a second volley of fusils, we thought they
stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone off; but it
was but a moment, for others came forward again: so we fired
two volleys of pistols; and I believe in these four firings we
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many,—
yet they came on again.
I was loath to spend our shot too hastily; so I called my
servant,—not my man Friday, for he was better employed,—
for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable, he charged my fusil
and his own while we were engaged,—but as I said, I called my
other man, and, giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a
train all along the piece of timber, and let it be a large train. He
did so; and had just time to get away, when the wolves came up
to it, and some were got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged
pistol close to the powder, set it on fire, and those that were upon
the timber were scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell, or
rather jumped in among us, with the force and fright of the fire:
we despatched these in an instant, and the rest were so frighted
with the light, which the night, for it was now very near dark,
made more terrible, that they drew back a little. Upon which I
ordered our last pistols to be fired off in one volley, and after that
we gave a shout: upon this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied
immediately upon near twenty lame ones, which we found strug-
gling on the ground, and fell a-cutting them with our swords,
which answered our expectation; for the crying and howling
they made was better understood by their fellows, so that they all
fled and left us.
We had, first and last, killed about threescore of them; and
had it been daylight, we had killed many more. The field of
battle being thus cleared, we made forward again, for we had
263
still near a league to go. We heard the ravenous creatures howl
and yell in the woods, as we went, several times; and sometimes
we fancied we saw some of them, but the snow dazzling our eyes,
we were not certain. So in about an hour more we came to the
town where we were to lodge, which we found in a terrible fright,
and all in arms; for it seems that the night before, the wolves
and some bears had broke into that village, and put them in a
terrible fright, and they were obliged to keep guard night and
day, but especially in the night, to preserve their cattle, and,
indeed, their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled
so much with the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go no
farther; so we were obliged to take a new guide here, and go to
Tholouse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful pleasant
country, and no snow, no wolves, or anything like them; but
when we told our story at Tholouse, they told us it was nothing
but what was ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the
mountains, especially when the snow lay on the ground; but they
inquired much what kind of a guide we had gotten, that would
venture to bring us that way in such a severe season, and told us
it was very strange we were not all devoured . When we told
them how we placed ourselves, and the horses in the middle,
they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it was fifty to one but
we had been all destroyed, for it was the sight of the horses that
made the wolves so furious, seeing their prey, and that, at other
times, they are really afraid of a gun; but they, being excessive
hungry, and raging on that account, the eagerness to come at
the horses had made them senseless of danger,—and if we had
not, by the continued fire, and at last by the stratagem of the
train of powder, mastered them, it had been great odds but that
we had been torn to pieces: whereas, had we been content to
have sat still on horseback, and fired as horsemen, they would
not have taken the horses so much for their own, when men were
on their backs, as otherwise: and withal they told us, that, at last,
if we had stood altogether, and left our horses, they would have
been so eager to have devoured them, that we might have come
off safe, especially having our firearms in our hands, and being
so many in number.
For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my life; for see-
ing above three hundred devils come roaring and open-mouthed to
ADVENTURES OF
devour us, and having nothing to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave my-
self over for lost; and, as it was, I believe I shall never care to cross
those mountains again: I think I would much rather go a thousand
leagues by sea, though I was sure to meet with a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage
through France, nothing but what other travellers have given an
account of, with much more advantage than I can. I travelled
from Tholouse to Paris, and without any considerable stay came
to Calais, and landed safe at Dover, the 14th of January, after
having had a severe cold season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a little
time all my new discovered estate safe about me; the bills of
exchange which I brought with me having been very currently paid
.
My principal guide and privy counsellor was my good ancient
widow, who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought
no pains too much, or care too great, to employ for me; and I
trusted her so entirely with everything, that I was perfectly easy
as to the security of my effects: and, indeed, I was very happy
from the beginning, and now to the end, in the unspotted integrity
of this good gentlewoman.
And now I began to think of leaving my effects with this woman,
and setting out for Lisbon, and so to the Brazils. But now another
scruple came in the way, and that was religion; for as I had enter-
tained some doubts about the Roman religion, even while I was
abroad, especially in my state of solitude, so I knew there was no
going to the Brazils for me, much less going to settle there, unless
I resolved to embrace the Roman Catholic religion, without any
reserve;—unless, on the other hand, I resolved to be a sacrifice to
my principles, be a martyr for religion, and die in the Inquisition.
So I resolved to stay at home, and, if I could find means for it,
to dispose of my plantation.
To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who in
return gave me notice that he could easily dispose of it there; but
that if I thought fit to give him leave to offer it in my name to the
two merchants, the survivors of my trustees, who lived in the
Brazils, who must fully understand the value of it, who lived just
upon the spot, and whom I knew to be very rich, so that he believed
they would be fond of buying it, he did not doubt but I should
make four or five thousand pieces of eight the more of it
Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it to them, and
265
he did so; and in about eight months more, the ship being then
returned, he sent me an account that they had accepted the offer,
and had remitted thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a corre-
spondent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it In return, I signed the
instrument of sale in the form which they sent from Lisbon, and
sent it to my old man, who sent me the bills of exchange for thirty-
three thousand pieces of eight for the estate; reserving the pay-
ment of one hundred moidores a-year to him (the old man) during
his life, and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which
I had promised them, and which the plantation was to make good
as a rent-charge.
And thus I have given the first part of a life of fortune and adven-
ture, a life of Providence's chequer work, and of a variety which the
world will seldom be able to show the like of: beginning foolishly,
but closing much more happily than any part of it ever gave me
leave so much as to hope for.
Any one would think that in this state of complicated good
fortune, I was past running any more hazards, and so indeed I had
been, if other circumstances had concurred: but I was inured to
a wandering life, had no family, nor many relations, nor, however
rich, had I contracted much acquaintance; and though I had sold
my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep that country out
of my head, and had a great mind to be upon the wing again:
especially I could not resist the strong inclination I had to see my
island, and to know if the poor Spaniards were in being there;
and how the rogues I left there had used them.
My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me from it, and
so far prevailed with me, that almost for seven years she prevented
my running abroad, during which time I took my two nephews,
the children of one of my brothers, into my care: the eldest having
something of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a
settlement of some addition to his estate, after my decease; the
other I put out to a captain of a ship: and after five years, finding
him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I put him into a
good ship, and sent him to sea; and this young fellow afterwards
drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures myself.
In the meantime I in part settled myself here; for, first of all,
I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction,
—and had three children, two sons and one daughter.
Crusoe's reflections in England—He dreams of his island, and conceives a desire
to return to it, which his wife discovers—Resolves to divert his thoughts, and
begins farming in Bedfordshire—On the death of his wife he determines to
revisit his island, and sets sail in an Indiaman, which is to touch at the Brazils—
The vessel is driven by contrary winds on to the coast of Galway, which leads to
new adventures—Falls in with a French merchant vessel on fire, and delivers the
crew, who are carried to Newfoundland—Steers thence for the West Indies,
and falls in with a Bristol ship, the crew and passengers of which are famishing.
HAT homely proverb used on so many occasions in
England, viz., "That what is bred in the bone will
not go out of the flesh," was never more verified than
in the story of my life. Any one would think that,
after thirty-five years' affliction, and a variety of
unhappy circumstances, which few men, if any, ever went through
before, and after near seven years of peace and enjoyment in the
fulness of all things, grown old, and when, if ever, it might be allowed
me to have had experience of every state of middle life, and to know
which was most adapted to make a man completely happy,—I say,
after all this, any one would have thought that the native propensity
to rambling, which I gave an account of in my first setting out in
the world to have been so predominant in my thoughts, should be
worn out, the volatile part be fully evacuated, or at least condensed,
and I might, at sixty-one years of age, have been a little inclined to
stay at home, and have done venturing life and fortune any more. Nay, further, the common motive of foreign adventures was taken
away in me; for I had no fortune to make—I had nothing to seek:
if I had gained ten thousand pounds, I had been no richer, for I
had already sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave it to; and
that I had was visibly increasing, for, having no great family, I could
not spend the income of what I had, unless I would set up for an
expensive way of living, such as a great family, servants, equipage,

gaiety, and the like, which were things I had no notion of, or incli-
nation to: so that I had nothing indeed to do but to sit still, and
fully enjoy what I had got, and see it increase daily upon my hands.
Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least not
enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad again,
which hung about me like a chronic distemper; particularly,
the desire of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the
colony I left there, ran in my head continually. I dreamed of
it all night, and my imagination ran upon it all day: it was
uppermost in all my thoughts, and my fancy worked so steadily
and strongly upon it, that I talked of it in my sleep. In short,
nothing could remove it out of my mind: it even broke so vio-
lently into all my discourses, that it made my conversation tire-
some, for I could talk of nothing else; all my discourse ran into
it, even to impertinence, and I saw it myself.
I have often heard persons of good judgment say, that all the
stir people make in the world about ghosts and apparitions is
owing to the strength of imagination, and the powerful operation
of fancy in their minds,—that there is no such thing as a spirit
appearing, or a ghost walking, and the like: that people's poring
affectionately upon the past conversation of their deceased friends,
so realises it to them, that they are capable of fancying, upon
some extraordinary circumstances, that they see them, talk to
them, and are answered by them, when, in truth, there is nothing
but shadow and vapour in the thing, and they really know
nothing of the matter.
For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any
such things as real apparitions, spectres, or walking of people after
they are dead; or whether there is anything in the stories they
tell us of that kind, more than the product of vapours, sick
minds, and wandering fancies: but this I know, that my imagina-
tion worked up to such a height, and brought me into such
excess of vapours, or what else I may call it, that I actually sup-
posed myself oftentimes upon the spot, at my old castle behind
the trees—saw my old Spaniard, Friday's father, and the reprobate
sailors I left upon the island—nay, I fancied I talked with them,
and looked at them so steadily, though I was broad awake, as at
persons just before me; and this I did till I often frighted myself
with the images my fancy represented to me. One time, in my
sleep, I had the villany of the three pirate sailors so lively related
ADVENTURES OF
to me by the first Spaniard and Friday's father, that it was sur-
prising: they told me how they barbarously attempted to murder
all the Spaniards, and that they set fire to the provisions they
had laid up, on purpose to distress and starve them,—things that
I had never heard of, and that were yet all of them true in fact
But it was so warm in my imagination, and so realised to me,
that, to the hour I saw them, I could not be persuaded but that
it was, or would be, true: also how I resented it, when the
Spaniard complained to me; and how I brought them to justice,
tried them before me, and ordered them all three to be hanged
.
What there was really in this shall be seen in its place; for how-
ever I came to form such things in my dream, and what secret
converse of spirits injected it, yet there was, I say, very much of
it true. I own that this dream had nothing literally and speci-
fically true; but the general part was so true, the base and
villanous behaviour of these three hardened rogues was such, and
had been so much worse than all I can describe, that the dream
had too much similitude of the fact; and as I would afterwards
have punished them severely, so, if I had hanged them all, I had
been much in the right, and should have been justifiable both
by the laws of God and man.
But to return to my story. In this kind of temper I lived
some years; I had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant hours,
no agreeable diversion, but what had something or other of this
in it; so that my wife, who saw my mind so wholly bent upon it,
told me very seriously one night, that she believed there was
some secret powerful impulse of Providence upon me, which had
determined me to go thither again; and that she found nothing
hindered my going, but my being engaged to a wife and children.
She told me, that it was true she could not think of parting with
me; but as she was assured, that if she was dead it would be the
first thing I would do, so, as it seemed to her that the thing was
determined above, she would not be the only obstruction; for,
if I thought fit, and resolved to go here she found me very
intent upon her words, and that 1 looked very earnestly at her,
so that it a little disordered her, and she stopped. I asked her,
why she did not go on, and say out what she was going to say?
But I perceived that her heart was too full, and some tears stood
in her eyes. "Speak out, my dear," said I, "are you willing I
should go?" "No," says she, very affectionately, "I am far
269
from willing; but if you are resolved to go," says she, "and
rather than I would be the only hindrance, I will go with you:
for though I think it a preposterous thing for one of your years,
and in your condition, yet, if it must be," said she, again weeping,
"I won't leave you; for if it be of Heaven, you must do it;
there is no resisting it; and if Heaven makes it your duty to go,
He will make it also mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of
me, that I may not obstruct it."
This affectionate behaviour of my wife brought me a little out
of the vapours, and I began to consider what I was doing: I cor-
rected my wandering fancy, and began to argue with myself sedately
what business I had, after threescore years, and after such a life
of tedious sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy and
easy a manner,—I say, what business had I to rush into new
hazards, and put myself upon adventures fit only for youth and
poverty to run into?
With those thoughts, I considered my new engagement—that I
had a wife, one child born, and my wife then great with child of
another—that I had all the world could give me, and had no need
to seek hazards for gain—that I was declining in years, and ought
to think rather of leaving what I had gained than of seeking to
increase it—that, as to what my wife had said, of its being a secret
impulse from Heaven, and that it should be my duty to go, I had
no notion of that: so, after many of these cogitations, I struggled
with the power of my imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as I
believe people may always do in like cases, if they will; and, in a
word, I conquered it; composed myself with such arguments as
occurred to my thoughts, and which my present condition fur-
nished me plentifully with; and, particularly, as the most effectual
method, I resolved to divert myself with other things, and to
engage in some business that might effectually tie me up from any
more excursions of this kind; for I found the thing return upon
me chiefly when I was idle, had nothing to do, or anything of
moment immediately before me.
To this purpose I bought a little farm in the county of Bedford, and resolved to remove myself thither. I had a little convenient
house upon it, and the land about it I found was capable of great
improvement, and that it was many ways suited to my inclination,
which delighted in cultivating, managing, planting, and improving
of land; and, particularly, being an inland county, I was removed
ADVENTURES OF
from conversing among ships, sailors, and things relating to the
remote part of the world.
In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my family, bought
me ploughs, harrows, a cart, waggon, horses, cows, sheep, and
setting seriously to work, became in one half-year a mere country
gentleman. My thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my
servants, cultivating the ground, enclosing, planting, &c.; and I
lived, as I thought, the most agreeable life that nature was capable
of directing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes was capable
of being retreated to.
I farmed upon my own land—I had no rent to pay—was limited
by no articles—I could pull up or cut down as I pleased—what I
planted was for myself, and what I improved was for my family;
and, having thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not the
least discomfort in any part of my life as to this world . Now, I
thought, indeed, that I enjoyed the middle state of life, which my
father so earnestly recommended to me—a kind of heavenly life,
something like what is described by the poet upon the subject
of a country life :—
"Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pains, and youth no snare."
But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unforeseen
Providence unhinged me at once, and not only made a breach
upon me, inevitable and incurable, but drove me, by its conse-
quence, upon a deep relapse into the wandering disposition, which,
as I may say, being born in my very blood, soon recovered its
hold of me, and, like the returns of a violent distemper, came
on with an irresistible force upon me, so that nothing could
make any more impression upon me. This blow was the loss of
my wife.
It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my wife, to
give a character of her particular virtues, and make my court to
the sex by the flattery of a funeral sermon. She was, in a few words,
the stay of all my affairs, the centre of all my enterprises, the engine
that, by her prudence, reduced me to that happy compass I was
in, from the most extravagant and ruinous project that fluttered in
my head, as above, and did more to guide my rambling genius
than a mother's tears, a father's instructions, a friend's counsel, or
all my own reasoning powers could do. I was happy in listening
271
to her entreaties, and in being moved by her tears, and, to the last
degree, desolate and dislocated in the world, by the loss of her.
When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me; I
was as much a stranger in it in my thoughts as I was in the Brazils
when I went first on shore, and as much alone, except as to the
assistance of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither what
to do, or what not to do; I saw the world busy round me, one part
labouring for bread, and the other part squandering in vile excesses,
or empty pleasures equally miserable, because the end they pro-
posed still fled from them; for the men of pleasure every day sur-
feited of their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow and repentance,
and the men of labour spent their strength in daily strugglings for
bread to maintain the vital strength they laboured with; so living
in a daily circulation of sorrow—living but to work, and working but
to live, as if daily bread were the only end of a wearisome life,
and a wearisome life the only occasion of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the bland,
where I suffered no more corn to grow, because I did not want
it, and bred no more goats, because I had no more use for them
—where the money lay in the drawer till it grew mildewed, and
had scarce the favour to be looked upon in twenty years.
All these things, had I improved them as I ought to have
done, and as reason and religion had dictated to me, would have
taught me to search farther than human enjoyments for a full feli-
city, and that there was something which certainly was the reason
and end of life, superior to all these things, and which was either
to be possessed, or, at least, hoped for, on this side of the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone; I was like a ship without a
pilot, that could only run before the wind; my thoughts ran all
away again into the old affair—my head was quite turned with the
whimsies of foreign adventures; and all the pleasing innocent
amusements of my farm and my garden, my cattle and my family,
which before entirely possessed me, were nothing to me,—had no
relish, and were like music to one that has no ear, or food to one that
has no taste: in a word, I resolved to leave off housekeeping, let
my farm, and return to London; and in a few months after I did so.
When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as before; I
had no relish to the place, no employment in it, nothing to do
but to saunter about like an idle person, of whom it may be said,
he is perfectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one farthing
ADVENTURES OF
matter to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or alive. This
also was the thing which, of all circumstances of life, was the most
my aversion, who had been all my days used to an active life;
and I would often say to myself, "A state of idleness is the very
dregs of life : " and, indeed, I thought I was much more suitably
employed when I was twenty-six days making me a deal board
.
It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew,
whom, as I observed before, I had brought up to the sea, and had
made him commander of a ship, was come home from a short
voyage to Bilboa, being the first he had made. He came to me,
and told me, that some merchants of his acquaintance had been
proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the East Indies and
to China, as private traders. "And now, uncle," says he, "if
you will go to sea with me, I'll engage to land you upon your old
habitation in the island, for we are to touch at the Brazils."
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state, and of
the existence of an invisible world, than the concurrence of second
causes with the ideas of things which we form in our minds,
perfectly reserved, and not communicated to any in the world.
My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering
was returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in his
thoughts to say, when that very morning, before he came to me,
I had, in a great deal of confusion of thought, and revolving every
part of my circumstances in my mind, come to this resolution,
namely, that I would go to Lisbon and consult with my old sea-
captain; and so, if it was rational and practicable, I would go and
see the island again, and see what was become of my people
there. I had pleased myself also with the thoughts of peopling
the place, and carrying inhabitants from hence, getting a patent
for the possession, and I know not what; when, in the middle of
all this, in comes my nephew, as I have said, with his project of
carrying me thither in his wayto the East Indies.
I paused a while at his words, and looking steadily at him,
"What devil," said I, "sent you this unlucky errand?" My
nephew started, as if he had been frighted at first; but perceiving
I was not much displeased with the proposal, he recovered him-
self. "I hope it may not be an unlucky proposal, sir," says he;
"I daresay you would be pleased to see your new colony there,
where you once reigned with more felicity than most of your
brother monarchs in the world."
»73
In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to
say, with the prepossession I was under, and of which I have said
so much, that I told him in a few words, if he agreed with the
merchants, I would go with him; but I told him I would not
promise to go any farther than my own island . "Why, sir," says
he, "you don't want to be left there again, I hope?" "Why," said
I, "can you not take me up again in your return?" He told me,
it could not be possible that the merchants would allow him to
come that way with a loaden ship of such value, it being a month's
sail out of his way, and might be three or four: "besides, sir, if
I should miscarry," said he, "and not return at all, then you would
be just reduced to the condition you were in before."
This was very rational: but we both found out a remedy for it,
which was, to carry a framed sloop on board the ship, which, being
taken in pieces and shipped on board the ship, might, by the help
of some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, be set up
again in the island and finished, fit to go to sea in a few days.
I was not long resolving; for indeed the importunities of my
nephew joined in so effectually with my inclination, that nothing
could oppose me; on the other hand, my wife being dead, I had
nobody concerned themselves so much for me as to persuade me
one way or other, except my ancient good friend the widow, who
earnestly struggled with me to consider my years, my easy circum-
stances, and the needless hazard of a long voyage, and, above all,
my young children: but it was all to no purpose; I had an irre-
sistible desire to the voyage, and I told her I thought there was
something so uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind
for the voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I
should attempt to stay at home; after which she ceased her expos-
tulations, and joined with me, not only in making provision for my
voyage, but also in settling my family affairs in my absence, and
providing for the education of my children.
In order to this I made my will, and settled the estate I had in
such a manner for my children, and placed in such hands, that I
was perfectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done them,
whatever might befal me; and for their education, I left it wholly
to my widow, with a sufficient maintenance to herself for her care;
all which she richly deserved, for no mother could have taken more
care in their education, or understood it better: and as she lived
till I came home, I also lived to thank her for it
s
ADVENTURES OF
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January
1694-95, and I, with my man Friday, went on board in the Downs
the 8th, having, besides that sloop which I mentioned above, a very
considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my colony,
which, if I did not find in good condition, I resolved to leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to place
there as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there upon my own
account while I stayed, and either to leave them there, or carry them
forward, as they should appear willing; particularly, I carried two
carpenters, and a smith, and a very handy, ingenious fellow, who
was a cooper by trade, but was also a general mechanic; for he
was dexterous at making wheels and hand-mills to grind corn, was
a good turner, and a good pot-maker; he also made anything that
was proper to make of earth or of wood: in a word, we called him
our "Jack-of-all-trades."
With these I carried a tailor, who had offered himself to go
passenger to the East Indies with my nephew, but afterwards con-
sented to stay on our new plantation, and proved a most necessary
handy fellow as could be desired, in many other businesses besides
that of his trade; for, as I observed formerly, necessity arms us
for all employments.
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have not kept an account
of the particulars, consisted of a sufficient quantity of linen, and some
thin English stuffs for clothing the Spaniards that I expected to find
there, and enough of them as, by my calculation, might comfortably
supply them for seven years. If I remember right, the materials
which I carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats, shoes, stock-
ings, and all such things as they could want for wearing, amounted
to above two hundred pounds, including some beds, bedding, and
household stuff, particularly kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles,
pewter, brass, &c., besides, near a hundred pounds more in iron-
work, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every
necessary thing I could think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets and fusils, besides
some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes, three or
four tons of lead, and two pieces of brass cannon; and because I
knew not what time and what extremities I was providing for, I
carried a hundred barrels of powder, besides swords, cutlasses, and
the iron part of some pikes and halberts; so that, in short, we had
a large magazine of all sorts of stores; and I made my nephew
275
carry two small quarter-deck guns more than he wanted for his
ship, to leave behind if there was occasion,—that when they came
there we might build a fort, and man it against all sorts of enemies;
and indeed I at first thought that there would be need enough
of it all, and much more, if we hoped to maintain our possession
of the island, as shall be seen in the course of the story.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been used to
meet with: and therefore shall have the less occasion to interrupt
the reader, who, perhaps, may be impatient to hear how matters
went with my colony; yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and
bad weather, happened on this first setting out, which made the
voyage longer than I expected it at first; and I, who had never
made but one voyage, namely, my first voyage to Guinea, in which
I might be said to come back again as the voyage was first designed,
began to think the same ill fate still attended me,—that I was born
never to be contented with being on shore, and yet to be always
unfortunate at sea.
Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were
obliged to put in at Galway, in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound
two and thirty days; but we had this satisfaction with the disaster,
that provisions were here exceedingly cheap, and in the utmost
plenty; so that while we lay here we never touched the ship's
stores, but rather added to them. Here also I took several hogs,
and two cows with their calves, which I resolved, if I had a good
passage, to put on shore in my island, but we found occasion to
dispose otherwise of them.
We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very
fair gale of wind for some days; as I remember, it might be about
the 2oth of February, in the evening late, when the mate having
the watch, came into the round house, and told us he saw a flash
of fire, and heard a gun fired; and while he was telling us of it,
a boy came in, and told us the boatswain heard another. This
made us all run out upon the quarter-deck, where for a while we
heard nothing, but in a few minutes we saw a very great light, and
found that there was some very terrible fire at a distance. Imme-
diately we had recourse to our reckonings, in which we all agreed
that there could be no land that way in which the fire showed itself
—no, not for five hundred leagues, for it appeared at west-north-
west Upon this, we concluded it must be some ship on fire at
sea; and, as by our hearing the noise of the guns just before we
ADVENTURES OF
concluded it could not be far off, we stood directly towards it, and
were presently satisfied we should discover it, because the farther
we sailed the greater the light appeared, though the weather being
hazy, we could not perceive anything but the light for a while.
In about half an hour's sailing, the wind being fair for us, though
not much of it, and the weather clearing up a little, we could plainly
discern it was a great ship on fire in the middle of the sea.
I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all
acquainted with the persons engaged in it; I presently recollected
my former circumstances, in what condition I was in when taken
up by the Portuguese captain; and how much more deplorable
the circumstances of the poor cteatures belonging to this ship must
be if they had no other ship in company with them: upon this, I
immediately ordered that five guns should be fired, one soon after
another, that, if possible, we might give notice to them that there
was help for them at hand, and that they might endeavour to save
themselves in their boat; for though we could see the flame in the
ship, yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning ship
drove, waiting for daylight; when on a sudden, to our great terror,
though we had reason to expect it, the ship blew up in the air, and
immediately sunk. This was terrible, and indeed an afflicting sight,
for the sake of the poor men, who, I concluded, must be either all
destroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their boats in
the middle of the ocean, which at present, by reason it was dark, I
could not see: however, to direct them as well as I could, I caused
lights to be hung out in all the parts of the ship where we could,
and which we had lanterns for, and kept firing guns all the night
long: letting them know by this that there was a ship not far off.
About eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's boats
by the help of our perspective glasses; and found there were two
of them, both thronged with people, and deep in the water: we
perceived they rowed, the wind being against them—that they saw
our ship, and did the utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we saw
them, and hung a waft out, as a signal for them to come on
board; and then made more sail, standing directly to them. In
a little more than half an hour we came up with them, and, in a
word, took them all in, being no less than sixty-four men, women,
and children; for there were a great many passengers.
277
Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant ship, of
three hundred tons, homeward bound from Quebec, in the river
of Canada. The master gave us a long account of the distress of
his ship, how the fire began in the steerage by the negligence of
the steersman; but, on his crying out for help, was, as everybody
thought, entirely got out: but they soon found that some of the
sparks of the first fire had gotten into some part of the ship, so
difficult to come at, that they could not effectually quench it; and
afterwards getting in between the timbers, and within the ceiling
of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and mastered all the skill
and all the application they were able to exert
They had no more to do then but to get into their boats,
which, to their great comfort, were pretty large; being their long-
boat, and a great shallop, besides a small skiff, which was of no
great service to them, other than to get some fresh water and
provisions into her, after they had secured themselves from the
fire. They had indeed small hope of their lives by getting into
these boats at that distance from any land; only, as they said
well, that they were escaped from the fire, and had a possibility
that some ship might happen to be at sea, and might take them in.
They had sails, oars, and a compass; and were preparing to make
the best of their way to Newfoundland, the wind blowing pretty
fair, for it blew an easy at south-east-by-east They had as much
provisions and water as, with sparing it so as to be next door to
starving, might support them about twelve days; in which, if they
had no bad weather, and no contrary winds, the captain said he
hoped he might get to the banks of Newfoundland, and might
perhaps take some fish to sustain them till they might go on shore.
But there were so many chances against them in all these cases—
such as storms to overset and founder them, rains and cold to
benumb and perish their limbs, contrary winds to keep them out
and starve them—that it must have been next to miraculous if
they had escaped.
In the midst of their consultations, every one being hopeless,
and ready to despair, the captain, with tears in his eyes, told me,
they were on a sudden surprised with the joy of hearing a gun fire,
and after that four more; these were the five guns which I caused
to be fired at first seeing the light: this revived their hearts, and
gave them the notice which, as above, I designed it should,
namely, that there was a ship at hand for their help.
ADVENTURES OF
It was upon the hearing these guns, that they took down their
masts and sails; and the sound coming from windward, they
resolved to lie by till morning. Some time after this, hearing no
more guns, they fired three muskets, one a considerable while
after another; but these, the wind being contrary, we never heard
.
Some time after that again, they were still more agreeably sur-
prised with seeing our lights, and hearing our guns, which, as I
have said, I caused to be fired all the rest of the night: this set
them to work with their oars to keep their boats ahead, at least
that we might the sooner come up with them; and at last, to their
inexpressible joy, they found we saw them.
It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the
strange ecstasies, the variety of postures, which these poor delivered
people ran into, to express the joy of their souls at so unexpected
a deliverance. Grief and fear are easily described—sighs, tears,
groans, and a very few motions of head and hands make up the
sum of its variety: but an excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a
thousand extravagances in it; there were some in tears, some
raging and tearing themselves, as if they had been in the greatest
agonies of sorrow; some stark raving and downright lunatic;
some ran about the ship stamping with their feet, others wringing
their hands; some were dancing, several singing, some laughing,
more crying; many quite dumb, not able to speak a word; others
sick and vomiting, several swooning, and ready to faint; and a
few were crossing themselves and giving God thanks.
I would not wrong them neither—there might be many that
were thankful afterward; but the passion was too strong for them
at first, and they were not able to master it—they were thrown
into ecstasies and a kind of frenzy, and so there were but a very
few who were composed and serious in their joy.
Perhaps also the case may have some addition to it, from the
particular circumstance of the nation they belonged to—I mean
the French, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile, more
passionate, and more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid, than
of other nations. I am not a philosopher to determine the cause,
but nothing I had ever seen before came up to it; the ecstasies
poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when he found his father
in the boat, came the nearest to it; and the surprise of the master
and his two companions, whom I delivered from the villains that
set them on shore on the island, came a little way towards it; but
279
nothing was to compare to this, either that I saw in Friday, or
anywhere else in my life.
It is further observable, that these extravagances did not show
themselves in that different manner I have mentioned, in different
persons only; but all the variety would appear in a short succes-
sion of moments, in one and the same person. A man that we
saw this minute dumb, and, as it were, stupid and confounded,
should the next minute be dancing and hallooing like an antic;
and the next moment a-tearing his hair, or pulling his clothes to
pieces, and stamping them under his feet like a madman; a few
minutes after that, we should have him fall into tears, then sick,
then swooning; and, had not immediate help been had, would in
a few moments more have been dead: and thus it was, not with
one or two, or ten, or twenty, but with the greatest part of them;
and, if I remember right, our surgeon was obliged to let above
thirty of them blood.
There were two priests among them, one an old man and the
other a young man; and that which was strangest was, that the
oldest man was the worst .
As soon as he set his foot on board our ship, and saw himself
safe, he dropped down stone dead to all appearance—not the
least sign of life could be perceived in him. Our surgeon
immediately applied proper remedies to recover him, and was the
only man in the ship that believed he was not dead; and at
length he opened a vein in his arm, having first chafed and rubbed
the part, so as to warm it as much as possible: upon this, the
blood, which only dropped at first, flowed something freely: in
three minutes after the man opened his eyes; and about a
quarter of an hour after that, he spoke, grew better, and in a little
time quite well After the blood was stopped, he walked about,
told us he was perfectly well, took a dram of cordial which the
surgeon gave him, and was, what we called, come to himself. About a quarter of an hour after this they came running into the
cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a Frenchwoman that had
fainted, and told him the priest was gone stark mad. It seems
he had begun to revolve the change of his circumstances in his
mind, and this put him into an ecstasy of joy; his spirits whirled
about faster than the vessels could convey them; the blood grew
hot and feverish, and the man was as fit for Bedlam as any
creature that ever was in it: the surgeon would not bleed him
ADVENTURES OF
again in that condition, but gave him something to doze and put
him to sleep, which, after some time, operated upon him, and he
waked next morning perfectly composed and well
.
The younger priest behaved himself with great command of his
passion, and was really an example of a serious, well-governed
mind. At his first coming on board the ship, he threw himself
flat on his face, prostrating himself in thankfulness for his deliver-
ance,—in which I unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him,
really thinking he had been in a swoon: but he spoke calmly,
thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his deliverance,
begged me to leave him a few moments, and that, next to his
Maker, he would give me thanks also.
I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left him,
but kept others from interrupting him also; he continued in that
posture about three minutes, or a little more, after I left him, then
came to me, as he had said he would, and with a great deal of
seriousness and affection, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me
that had, under God, given him and so many miserable creatures,
their lives. I told him I had no room to move him to thank God
for it rather than me; for I had seen that he had done that
already: but I added, that it was nothing but what reason and
humanity dictated to all men, and that we had as much reason
as he to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so far as to make
us the instruments of His mercy to many of His creatures.
After this, the young priest applied himself to his country folks
28o
reasoned with them, and did his utmost to keep them within the
exercise of their reason; and with some he had success, though
others were, for a time, out of all government of themselves.
I cannot help committing this to writing, and perhaps it may be
useful to those into whose hands it may fall, in the guiding them-
selves in all the extravagances of their passions; for if an excess
of joy can carry men out to such a length beyond the reach of their
reason, what will not the extravagances of anger, rage, and a
provoked mind carry us to? And, indeed, here I saw reason for
keeping an exceeding watch over our passions of every kind, as
well those of joy and satisfaction, as those of sorrow and anger.
We were sometimes disordered by these extravagances among
our new guests for the first day; but when they had been retired,
lodgings provided for them all as well as our ship would allow,
281
and they had slept heartily, as most of them did, being fatigued
and frighted, they were quite another sort of people the next day.
Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the
kindness shown them, was wanting; the French, it is known, are
naturally apt enough to exceed that way. The captain and one
of the priests came to me the next day, and desiring to speak
with me and my nephew, the commander, began to consult with
us what should be done with them; and, first, they told us, that as
we had saved their lives, so all they had was little enough for a
return to us for the kindness received . The captain said they had
saved some money, and some things of value in their boats, catched
hastily out of the flames; and if we would accept of it, they were
ordered to make an offer of it all to us; they only desired to be set
on shore somewhere in our way, where, if possible, they might get
a passage to France.
My nephew was for accepting their money at first word, and to
consider what to do with them afterwards, but I overruled him in
that part: for I knew what it was to be set on shore in a strange
country; and if the Portuguese captain that took me up at sea had
served me so, and took all that I had for my deliverance, I must
have starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I had
been at Barbary, the being sold to a Mahometan only excepted;
and perhaps a Portuguese is not a much better master than a Turk,
if not, in some cases, a much worse.
I therefore told the French captain that we had taken them
up in their distress, it was true; but that it was our duty to do
so, as we were fellow-creatures, and as we would desire to be so
delivered, if we were in the like or any other extremity; that we
had done nothing for them but what we believed they would have
done for us, if we had been in their case, and they in ours; but
that we took them up to serve them, not to plunder them; and
that it would be a most barbarous thing to take that little from
them which they had saved out of the fire, and then set them
on shore and leave them; that this would be first to save them
from death, and then kill them ourselves—save them from drown-
ing, and then abandon them to starving: and therefore I would
not let the least thing be taken from them. As to setting them
on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an exceeding difficulty to
us, for that the ship was bound to the East Indies; and though
we were driven out of our course to the westward a very great way
ADVENTURES OF
which perhaps was directed by Heaven on purpose for their deliver-
ance, yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our voyage
on this particular account; nor could my nephew, the captain,
answer it to the freighters, with whom he was under charter-party
to pursue his voyage by way of Brazil; and all I knew he could
do for them was, to put ourselves in the way of meeting with
other ships homeward bound from the West Indies, and get
them passage, if possible, to England or France.
The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they
could not but be very thankful for it; but they were in a great con-
sternation, especially the passengers, at the notion of being carried
away to the East Indies: they then entreated me, that seeing I
was driven so far to the westward before I met with them, I
would at least keep on the same course to the banks of Newfound-
land, where it was possible I might meet with some ship or sloop
that they might hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence
they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and
therefore I inclined to agree to it; for indeed I considered that to
carry this whole company to the East Indies would not only be an
intolerable severity to the poor people, but would be ruining our
whole voyage, by devouring all our provisions; so I thought it no
breach of charter-party, but what an unforeseen accident made
absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one could say we
were to blame: for the laws of God and nature would have
forbid that we should refuse to take up two boats full of people in
such a distressed condition; and the nature of the thing, as well
respecting ourselves as the poor people, obliged us to see them on
shore somewhere or other, for their deliverance. So I consented
that we would carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather
would permit; and, if not, that I would carry them to Martinico,
in the West Indies.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good;
and as it had blowed continually in the points between north-east
and south-east a long time, we missed several opportunities of
sending them to France; for we met several ships bound to Europe,
whereof two were French, from St Christopher's: but they had
been so long beating up against the wind, that they durst take in
no passengers for fear of wanting provisions for the voyage, as well
for themselves as for those they should take in; so we were obliged
283
to go on. It was about a week after this, that we made the banks
of Newfoundland, where, to shorten my story, we put all our
French people on board a bark, which they hired at sea there, to
put them on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if they
could get provisions to victual themselves with. When I say all
the French went on shore, I should remember that the young
priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies,
desired to go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the
coast of Coromandel: I readily agreed to that, for I wonderfully
liked the man, and had very good reason, as will appear after-
wards; also four of the seamen entered themselves in our ship,
and proved very useful fellows.
From hence we directed our course for the West Indies, steering
away south and south-by-east, for about twenty days together, some-
times little or no wind at all, when we met another subject for our
humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minutes north,
and the igth day of March, 1694-95, when we espied a sail, our course south-east-and-by-south. We soon perceived it was a large
vessel, and that she bore up to us; but could not at first know
what to make of her, till, after coming a little nearer, we found she
had lost her main-topmast, foremast, and bowsprit, and presently
she fires a gun as a signal of distress. The weather was pretty
good, wind at north-north-west, a fresh gale, and we soon came
to speak with her.
We found her a ship of Bristol bound home from Barbadoes,
but had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few days before
she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while the captain and
chief mate were both gone on shore; so that, besides the terror of
the storm, they were but in an indifferent case for good artists to
bring the ship home. They had been already nine weeks at sea,
and had met with another terrible storm after the hurricane was
over, which had blown them quite out of their knowledge to the
westward, and in which they had lost their masts, as above: they
told us they expected to have seen the Bahama Islands, but were
then driven away again to the south-east by a strong gale of wind
at north-north-west, the same that blew now, and having no sails
to work the ship with, but a main-course and a kind of square sail
upon a jury-foremast, which they had set up, they could not lie near
the wind, but were endeavouring to stand away for the Canaries.
ADVENTURES OF
But that which was worst of all, was, that they were almost starved
for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone;
their bread and flesh was quite gone, they had not an ounce left
in the ship, and had had none for eleven days: the only relief they
had was, their water was not all spent, and they had about half a
barrel of flour left; they had sugar enough; some succades, or
sweatmeats, they had at first, but they were devoured; and they
had seven casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maidservant on board,
who were going passengers, and, thinking the ship was ready to
sail, unhappily came on board the evening before the hurricane
began: and, having no provisions of their own left, they were in a
more deplorable condition than the rest; for the seamen being
reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, had no compas-
sion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers; and they were
indeed in a condition that their misery is very hard to describe.
I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had not led
me, the weather being fair, and the wind abated, to go on board
the ship: the second mate, who upon this occasion commanded
the ship, had been on board our ship; and he told me, indeed,
that they had three passengers in the great cabin, and that they
were in a deplorable condition. "Nay," says he, "I believe they
are dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above two days;
and I was afraid to inquire after them," said he, "for I had nothing
to relieve them with."
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we
could spare; and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with my
nephew, that I would have victualled them, though we had gone
away to Virginia, or any part of the coast of America, to have sup-
plied ourselves; but there was no necessity for that
But now they were in a new danger, for they were afraid of eating
too much, even of that little we gave them. The mate, or com-
mander, brought six men with him in his boat, but these poor
wretches looked like skeletons, and were so weak they could hardly
sit to their oars; the mate himself was very ill, and half-starved,
for he declared he had reserved nothing from the men, and went
share and share alike with them in every bit they ate.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him imme-
diately; and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began to
be sick and out of order: so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon
285
mixed him up something with some broth, which he said would
be to him both food and physic, and after he had taken it he grew
better. In the meantime, I forgot not the men—I ordered victuals
to be given them, and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate
it: they were so exceedingly hungry that they were in a manner
ravenous, and had no command of themselves; and two of them
ate with so much greediness, that they were in danger of their
lives the next morning.
The sight of these people's distress was very moving to me, and
brought to mind what I had a terrible prospect of at my first
coming on shore in my island, where I had not the least mouth-
ful of food, or any hopes of procuring it,—besides the hourly
apprehension I had of being made the food of other creatures.
But all the while the mate was thus relating to me the miserable
condition of the ship's company, I could not put out of my thought
the story he had told me of the three poor creatures in the great
cabin—namely, the mother, her son, and the maidservant, whom
he had heard nothing of for two or three days, and whom he
seemed to confess they had wholly neglected, their own extremities
being so great; by which I understood that they had really given them no food at all, and that therefore they must be perished, and
be all lying dead perhaps on the floor or deck of the cabin.
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on
board with his men to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starv-
ing crew that were left on board, but ordered my own boat to go
on board the ship, and, with my mate and twelve men, to carry
them a sack of bread and four or five pieces of beef to boil . Our
surgeon charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while
they stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent the
men's taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it
was well boiled, and then to give every man but a little at a time;
and by this caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise have killed themselves with that very food that was given them on
purpose to save their lives.
At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great
cabin, and see what condition the poor passengers were in, and,
if they were alive, to comfort them and give them what refresh-
ment was proper; and the surgeon gave a large pitcher with some
of the prepared broth which he had given the mate that was on
board, and which he did not question would restore them gradually.
ADVENTURES OF
I was not satisfied with this; but, as I said above, having a
great mind to see the scene of misery, which I knew the ship
itself would present me with in a more lively manner than I could
have it by report, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called
him, with me, and went myself a little after in their boat
I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult to get the
victuals out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate observed
his order, and kept a good guard at the cook-room door, and the
men he placed there, after using all possible persuasion to have
patience, kept them off by force: however, he caused some biscuit
cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened them with the liquor
of the meat, which they call brewis, and gave every one one to
stay their stomachs, and told them it was for their own safety that
he was obliged to give them but a little at a time. But it was all
in vain; and had not I come on board, and their own commander
and officers with me, and with good words, and some threats also
of giving them no more, I believe they would have broken into
the cook-room by force, and torn the meat out of the furnace—
for words indeed are of a very small force to a hungry belly.
However, we pacified them, and fed them gradually and cautiously
for the first time, and the next time gave them more, and at last
filled their bellies, and the men did well enough.
But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of
another nature, and far beyond the rest: for as, first, the ship's
company had so little for themselves, it was but too true that they
had at first kept them very low, and at last totally neglected them;
so that, for six or seven days, it might be said, they had really
had no food at all, and, for several days before, very little.
The poor mother, who, as the first mate reported, was a woman
of good sense and good breeding, had spared all she could get so
affectionately for her son, that at last she entirely sank under it;
and when the mate of our ship went in, she sat upon the floor or
deck, with her back up against the sides, between two chairs
which were lashed fast, and her head sunk in between her
shoulders, like a corpse, though not quite dead . My mate said all
he could to revive and encourage her, and, with a spoon, put some
broth into her mouth: she opened her lips, and lifted up one hand,
but could not speak; yet she understood what he said, and made
signs to him, intimating that it was too late for her, but pointed to
her child, as if she would have said they should take care of him.
However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved with the sight,
endeavoured to get some of the broth into her mouth; and, as he
said, got two or three spoonfuls down, though I question whether
he could be sure of it or not; but it was too late, and she died
the same night
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most affection-
ate mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay in a cabin bed as
one stretched out, with hardly any life left in him: he had a piece
of an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it How-
ever, being young, and having more strength than his mother, the
mate got something down his throat, and he began sensibly to
revive, though, by giving him some time after but two or three
spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid; she lay all along upon the
deck hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen down
with apoplexy, and struggled for life: her limbs were distorted, one
of her hands was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she griped
it so hard that we could not easily make her let it go; her other
arm lay over her head, and her feet lay both together, set fast
against the frame of the cabin table: in short, she lay just like one
in the last agonies of death, and yet she was alive too.
The poor creature was not only starved with hunger, and terrified
with the thoughts of death, but, as the men told us afterwards, was
broken-hearted for her mistress, whom she saw dying two or three
days before, and whom she loved most tenderly.
We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for, when oui
surgeon, who was a man of very great knowledge and experience,
and, with great application, recovered her as to life, he had her
upon his hand as to her senses: for she was little less than dis-
tracted for a considerable time after, as shall appear presently.
Whoever shall read these memorandums, must be desired to
consider that visits at sea are not like a journey into the country,
where sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a place.
Our business was to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not lie
by for them; and though they were willing to steer the same course
with us for some days, yet we could carry no sail to keep pace with
a ship that had no masts. However, as their captain begged of us
to help him to set up a main-topmast, and a kind of topmast to his
jury-foremast, we did, as it were, lie by him for three or four days,
and then, having given him five barrels of beef and pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas, flour, and what other
things we could spare, and taking three casks of sugar, and some
rum, and some pieces of eight of them for satisfaction, we left them,
taking on board with us, at their own earnest request, the youth,
and the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a pretty, well-
bred, modest, and sensible youth,—greatly dejected with the loss
of his mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father but a few months
before at Barbadoes. He begged of the surgeon to speak to me
to take him out of the ship, for he said the cruel fellows had
murdered his mother: and, indeed, so they had, that is to say,
passively; for they might have spared a small sustenance to the
poor helpless widow, that might have preserved her life, though it
had been just to keep her alive. But hunger knows no friend,
no relation, no justice, no right, and therefore is remorseless, and
capable of no compassion.
The surgeon told him how far we were going, and how it would
carry him away from all his friends, and put him, perhaps, in as
bad circumstances almost as we found them—that is to say, starv-
ing in the world. He said it mattered not whither he went, if he
was but delivered from the terrible crew that he was among—that
the captain (by which he meant me, for he could know nothing of
my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure would not hurt
him: and, as for the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself, she
would be very thankful for it, let us carry them whither we would.
The surgeon represented the case so affectionately to me, that I
yielded, and we took them both on board, with all their goods,
except eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could not be removed or
come at; and as the youth had a bill of lading for them, I made
his commander sign a writing obliging him to go, as soon as he
came to Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the
youth said he was related, and to deliver a letter which I wrote to
him, and all the goods he had belonging to the deceased widow,—
which, I suppose, was not done, for I could never learn that the
ship came to Bristol, but was, as is most probable, lost at sea, being
in so disabled a condition, and so far from any land, that I am of
opinion the first storm she met with afterwards she might founder
in the sea; for she was leaky, and had damage in her hold when
I met with her.
Crusoe arrives at his island, which he finds with some difficulty, having discovered, in
his search for it, that that which he previously supposed to be a continent, was,
in reality, a group of islands—Friday is very joyous upon seeing the old place—
The first person Crusoe meets is the Spaniard whose life he saved—Friday
meets with his father - Crusoe discovers that the English sailors he left behind
have behaved badly—The history of the island during his absence.

WAS now in the latitude of nineteen degrees thirty-
two minutes, and had hitherto had a tolerable voyage
as to weather, though at first the winds had been
contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the little
incidents of wind, weather, currents, &c, on the rest of our voyage; but, shortening my story for the sake of what
is to follow, shall observe that I came to my old habitation, the
island, on the loth of April 1695. It was with no small difficulty
that I found the place: for as I came to it and went from it before
on the south and east side of the island, as coming from the Brazils,
so now, coming in between the main and the island, and having
no chart for the coast, nor any landmark, I did not know it when
I saw it, or know whether I saw it or not
We beat about a great while, and went on shore on several
islands in the mouth of the great river Oroonoque, but none for
my purpose: only this I learnt by my coasting the shore, that I
was under one great mistake before, namely, that the continent
which I thought I saw from the island I lived in, was really no
continent, but a long island, or rather a ridge of islands, reaching
from one to the other side of the extended mouth of that great
river; and that the savages who came to my island were not
properly those which we call Caribbees, but islanders, and other
barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited something nearer to
our side than the rest.
T
In short, I visited several of the islands to no purpose: some I
found were inhabited, and some were not. On one of them I found
some Spaniards, and thought they had lived there; but, speaking
with them, I found they had a sloop lay in a small creek hard by,
and that they came thither to make salt, and catch some pearl
mussels, if they could: but they belonged to the Isle de Trinidad,
which lay farther north, in the latitude of ten and eleven degrees.
Thus coasting from'one island to another, sometimes with the
ship, sometimes with the Frenchman's shallop (which we had
found a convenient boat, and therefore kept her with their very
good will), at length I came fair on the south side of my island,
and I presently knew the very countenance of the place: so I
brought the ship safe to an anchor broadside with the little creek,
where was my old habitation.
As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked him
if he knew where he was? He looked about a little, and presently
clapping his hands, cried, "Oh yes! Oh, there! Oh yes! Oh,
there!" pointing to our old habitation, and fell a-dancing and
capering like a mad fellow; and I had much ado to keep him
from jumping into the sea, to swim ashore to the place.
"Well, Friday," said I, "do you think we shall find anybody
here or no? and what do you think, shall we see your father?"
The fellow stood mute as a stock a good while; but when I
named his father, the poor affectionate creature looked dejected,
and I could see the tears run down his face very plentifully.
"What is the matter, Friday?" said I; "are you troubled because
you may see your father ?"—" No, no!" says he, shaking his
head, "no see him more, no ever more see again !"—" Why so,
Friday?" said I, "how do you know that ?"—" Oh no! oh no!"
says Friday, "he long ago die, long ago, he much old man."—
"Well, well," said I, "Friday, you don't know; but shall we see
anybody else then?" The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than
I, and he points just to the hill above my old house; and though
we lay half a league off, he cries out, "Me see! me see! yes, yes;
me see much man there, and there, and there." I looked, but I
could see nobody—no, not with a perspective glass; which was,
I suppose, because I could not hit the place; for the fellow was
right, as I found upon inquiry the next day, and there were five
or six men all together stood to look at the ship, not knowing
what to think of us.
291
As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused the
English ancient to be spread, and fired three guns to give them
notice we were friends; and about half a quarter of an hour after
we perceived a smoke rise from the side of the creek: so I
immediately ordered a boat out, taking Friday with me, and
hanging out a white flag, or a flag of truce, I went directly on
shore, taking with me the young friar I mentioned, to whom I
had told the whole story of my living there, and the manner of it,
and every particular both of myself and those that I left there,
and who was on that account extremely desirous to go with me.
We had besides about sixteen men very well armed, if we had
found any new guest there which we did not know of; but we
had no need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood near high water,
we rowed directly into the creek; and the first man I fixed my
eye upon was the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and whom I
knew by his face perfectly well: as to his habit I shall describe
it afterwards. I ordered nobody to go on shore at first but my-
self: but there was no keeping Friday in the boat, for the affec-
tionate creature had spied his father at a distance, a good way
off the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of him; and if
they had not let him go on shore, he would have jumped into
the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but he flew away to his
father like an arrow out of a bow. It would have made any man
shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to have seen the first
transports of this poor fellow's joy when he came to his father—
how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked his face, took him up
in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay down by him;
then stood and looked at him, as any one would look at a strange
picture, for a quarter of an hour together; then lay down upon
the ground, and stroked his legs, and kissed them, and then got
up again, and stared at him: one would have thought the fellow
bewitched. But it would have made a dog laugh to see how the
next day his passion ran out another way: in the morning he
walked along the shore, to and again, with his father, several
hours,—always leading him by the hand as if he had been a lady;
and every now and then would come to fetch something or other
for him from the boat, either a lump of sugar, or a dram, or
biscuit, or something or other that was good. In the afternoon
his frolics ran another way, for then he would set the old man
ADVENTURES OF
down upon the ground, and dance about him, and make a thou-
sand antic postures and gestures; and all the while he did this he
would be talking to him, and telling him one story or another of
his travels, and of what happened to him abroad, to divert him.
In short, if the same filial affection was to be found in Chris-
tians to their parents in our parts of the world, one would be
tempted to say there hardly would have been any need of the
fifth commandment
But this is a digression; I return to my landing. It would be
endless to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that
the Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard, whom, as I
said, I knew very well, was he whose life I saved—he came
towards the boat, attended by one more, carrying a flag of truce
also; and he did not only not know me at first, but he had no
thoughts, no notion, of its being me that was come, till I spoke
to him. "Seignior," said I, in Portuguese, "do you not know
me?" At which he spoke not a word; but giving his musket to
the man that was with him, threw his arms abroad, and saying
something in Spanish that I did not perfectly hear, came forward
and embraced me, telling me he was inexcusable not to know
that face again that he had once seen, as of an angel from Heaven
sent to save his life: he said abundance of very handsome things,
as a well-bred Spaniard always knows how—and then, beckoning
to the person that attended him, bade him go and call out his
comrades. He then asked me if I would walk to my old habita-
tion, where he would give me possession of my own house again,
and where I should see there had been but mean improvements.
So I walked along with him. But, alas! I could no more find
the place again than if I had never been there; for they had
planted so many trees, and placed them in such a posture, so
thick and close to one another, and in ten years time they were
grown so big, that, in short, the place was inaccessible, except by
such winding and blind ways as they themselves only who
made them could find.
I asked them what put them upon all these fortifications? He
told me, I would say there was need enough of it when they had
given an account how they had passed their time since their
arriving in the island, especially after they had the misfortune to
find that I was gone: he told me he could not but have some
satisfaction in my good fortune, when he heard that I was gone
KOBINSON REVIENT DANS SON 1LE
293
in a good ship, and to my satisfaction; and that he had often-
times a strong persuasion that, one time or other, he should see
me again: but nothing that ever befel him in his life, he said,
was so surprising and afflicting to him at first, as the disappoint-
ment he was under when he came back to the island and found
I was not there.
As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom he said he had a long story to tell me, the
Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the savages,
only that their number was so small. "And," says he, "had
they been strong enough, we had been long ago in purgatory;"
and with that he crossed himself upon the breast. "But, sir,"
says he, "I hope you will not be displeased when I shall tell you
how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for our own preserva-
tion, to disarm them, and make them our subjects who would not
be content with being moderately our masters, but would be our
murderers." I answered, "I was heartily afraid of it when I left
them there; and nothing troubled me at my parting from the
island, but that they were not come back, that I might have put
them in possession of everything first, and left the others in a
state of subjection, as they deserved: but if they had reduced
them to it, I was very glad, and should be very far from finding
any fault with it, for I knew they were a parcel of refractory,
ungovernable villains, and were fit for any manner of mischief."
While I was saying this, came the man whom he had sent back,
and with him eleven men more. In the dress they were in, it
was impossible to guess what nation they were off; but he made
all clear, both to them and to me. First he turned to me, and
pointing to them, said, "These, sir, are some of the gentlemen
who owe their lives to you;" and then turning to them, and point-
ing to me, he let them know who I was; upon which they all came
up one by one, not as if they had been sailors, and ordinary fellows,
and I the like, but really as if they had been ambassadors, or
noblemen, and I a monarch or a great conqueror: their behaviour
was to the last degree obliging and courteous, and yet mixed with
a manly, majestic gravity, which very well became them; and, in
short, they had so much more manners than I, that I scarce knew
how to receive their civilities, much less how to return them in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in, the island, after
my going away, is so remarkable, and has so many incidents which
ADVENTURES OF
the former part of my relation will help to understand, and which
will in most of the particulars refer to that account I have already
given, that I cannot but commit them with great delight to the
reading of those that come after me.
I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first
person, which will put me to the expense of ten thousand "said
I's," and "said he's," and "he told me's," and " I told him's," and
the like; but I shall collect the facts historically, as near as I can
gather them out of my memory from what they related to me, and
from what I met with in my conversing with them, and with the place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I can, I
must go back to the circumstances in which I left the island, and
which the persons were in of whom I am to speak. At first, it is
necessary to repeat, that I had sent away Friday's father and the
Spaniard, the two whose lives I had rescued from the savages—I
say, I had sent them away in a large canoe to the main, as I then
thought it, to fetch over the Spaniard's companions whom he had
left behind him, in order to save them from the like calamity that
he had been in, and in order to succour them for the present, and
that, if possible, we might together find some way for our deliver-
ance afterward.
When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or the
least room to hope for, my own deliverance, any more than I had
twenty years before; much less had I any foreknowledge of what
after happened,—I mean of an English ship coming on shore there
to fetch me off: and it could not but be a very great surprise to
them when they came back, not only to find that I was gone, but
to find three strangers left on the spot, possessed of all that I had
left behind me, which would otherwise have been their own.
The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might
begin where I left off, was of their own part; and I desired he
would give me a particular account of his voyage back to his
countrymen with the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over.
He told me there was little variety in that part, for nothing remark-
able happened to them on their way, they having very calm weather,
and a smooth sea; for his countrymen, it could not be doubted,
he said, but that they were overjoyed to see him (it seems he was
the principal man among them, the captain of the vessel they had
been shipwrecked in having been dead some time): they were, he
said, the more surprised to see him, because they knew that he
295
was fallen into the hands of the savages, who they were satisfied
would devour him, as they did all the rest of their prisoners; that
when he told them the story of his deliverance, and in what manner
he was furnished for carrying them away, it was like a dream to
them, and their astonishment, he said, was something like that of
Joseph's brethren, when he told them who he was, and told them
the story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court; but when he showed
them the arms, the powder, the ball, and the provisions that he
brought them for their journey, or voyage, they were restored to
themselves, took a just share of the joy of their deliverance, and
prepared to come away with him.
The first business was to get canoes; and in this they were
obliged not to stick so much to the honest part of it, but to tres-
pass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow two large canoes,
or periaguas, on pretence of going out a-fishing or for pleasure.
In these they came away the next morning: it seems they
wanted no time to get themselves ready, for they had no baggage,
—neither clothes, nor provisions, nor any other thing in the world
but what they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they
used to make their bread.
They were in all three weeks absent; and in that time, unluckily
for them, I had the occasion offered for my escape, as I mentioned
in my other part, and to get off from the island, leaving three of
the most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains
behind me that any man could desire to meet with, to the poor
Spaniards' great grief and disappointment you may be sure.
The only just thing the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards
came on shore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them pro-
visions and other relief as I had ordered them to do; also they
gave them the long paper of directions, which I had left with
them, containing the particular method which I took for manag-
ing every part of my life there—the way how I baked my bread,
bred up my tame goats, and planted my corn—how I cured my
grapes, made my pots, and, in a word, everything I did: all this
being written down, they gave to the Spaniards, two of whom
understood English well enough; nor did they refuse to accom-
modate the Spaniards with anything else, for they agreed very
well for some time. They gave them an equal admission into
the house, or cave, and they began to live very sociably; and the
head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my method, and
ADVENTURES OF
Friday's father together, managed all their affairs; for, as for the
Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island, shoot
parrots, and catch tortoises, and when they came home at night,
the Spaniards provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, would the
others but have left them alone, which, however, they could not
find in their hearts to do long; but, like the dog in the manger,
they would not eat themselves, and would not let others eat
neither. The differences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial,
and such as are not worth relating: but at last it broke out into
open war, and it began with all the rudeness and insolence that
can be imagined, without reason, without provocation, contrary to
nature, and indeed to common sense; and though, it is true, the
first relation of it came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I
may call the accusers, yet when I came to examine the fellows,
they could not deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply
a defect in my former relation; and this was, that I forgot to set
down among the rest, that just as we were weighing anchor to set
sail, there happened a little quarrel on board our ship, which I
was afraid once would turn out to a second mutiny; nor was it
appeased till the captain, rousing up his courage, and taking us
all to his assistance, parted them by force, and making two of the
most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons: and as
they had been active in the former disorders, and let fall some
ugly dangerous words the second time, he threatened to carry
them in irons to England, and have them hanged there for
mutiny, and running away with the ship.
This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to do it,
frighted some other men in the ship; and some of them had
put it in the heads of the rest that the captain only gave them
good words for the present till they should come to some English
port, and that then they should be all put into a jail and tried for
their lives.
The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it;
upon which it was desired that I, who still passed for a great man
among them, should go down with the mate and satisfy the men,
and tell them, that they might be assured, if they behaved well
the rest of the voyage, all they had done for the time past should
be pardoned. So I went, and after passing my honour's word to
297
them, they appeared easy, and the more so, when I caused the
two men who were in irons to be released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night,
the wind also falling calm. The next morning we found that our
two men, who had been laid in irons, had stole each of them a
musket and some other weapons—what powder or shot they had
we knew not—and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not
yet hauled up, and run away with her to their companions in
roguery on shore.
As soon as we found this, I ordered the long boat on shore,
with twelve men and the mate, and away they went to seek the
rogues; but they could neither find them, nor any of the rest,
for they all fled into the woods when they saw the boat coming
on shore. The mate was once resolved, in justice to their roguery,
to have destroyed their plantations, burnt all their household stuff
and furniture, and left them to shift without it; but having no
order, he left all alone, left everything as he found it, and, bring-
ing the pinnace away, came on board without them.
These two men made their number five: but the other three
villains were so much wickeder than these, that, after they had
been two or three days together, they turned their two new-
comers out of doors to shift for themselves, and would have
nothing to do with them ; nor could they, for a good while, be
persuaded to give them any food: as for the Spaniards, they were
not yet come.
When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to
go forward: the Spaniards would have persuaded the three Eng-
lish brutes to have taken in their two countrymen again, that, as
they said, they might be all one family; but they would not hear
of it: so the two poor fellows lived by themselves, and finding
that nothing but industry and application would make them live
comfortable, they pitched their tents on the north shore of the
island, but a little more to the west, to be out of the danger of
the savages, who always landed on the east parts of the island.
Here they built two huts, one to lodge in, and the other
to lay up their magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards
having given them some corn for seed, and especially some of the
peas which I had left them, they dug, and planted, and enclosed,
after the pattern I had set for them all, and began to live pretty
well Their first crop of corn was on the ground, and though it
ADVENTURES OF
was but a little bit of land which they had dug up at first, having
had but a little time, yet it was enough to relieve them, and find
them with bread or other eatables: and one of the fellows, being
the cook's mate of the ship, was very ready at making soup,
puddings, and such other preparations as the rice and the milk,
and such little flesh as they got, furnished him to do.
They were going on in this little thriving posture, when the
three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere
humour, and to insult them, came and bullied them, and told
them the island was theirs; that the governor, meaning me, had
given them possession of it, and nobody else had any right to it;
and that they should build no houses upon their ground, unless
they would pay them rent for them.
The two men thought they had jested at first, and asked them
to come and sit down, and see what fine houses they were that
they had built, and tell them what rent they demanded: and one
of them merrily told them, if they were ground landlords, he
hoped, if they built tenements upon the land, and made improve-
ments, they would, according to the custom of all landlords, grant
them a long lease, and bade them go fetch a scrivener to draw
writings. One of the three, damning and raging, told them they
should see they were not in jest; and going to a little place at a
distance, where the honest men had made a fire to dress their
victuals, he takes a firebrand and claps it to the outside of their
hut, and very fairly sets it on fire; and it would have been all
burnt down in a few minutes, if one of the two had not run to the
fellow, thrust him away, and trod the fire out with his feet, and
that not without some difficulty too.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting him
away, that he turned upon him with a pole he had in his hand;
and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into
the hut, he had ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing
the danger they were both in, ran in after him, and immediately
they came both out with their muskets; and the man that was
first struck at with the pole knocked the fellow down who began
the quarrel with the stock of his musket, and that before the
other two could come to help him; and then seeing the rest come
they stood together, and, presenting the other ends of their pieces
to them, bade them to stand off.
The others had firearms with them, too ; but one of the two
299
honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his
danger, told them if they offered to move hand or foot they were
all dead men, and boldly commanded them to lay down their
arms. They did not, indeed, lay down their arms; but seeing
him resolute, it brought them to a parley, and they consented to
take their wounded man with them and begone : and, indeed, it
seems the fellow was wounded sufficiently with the blow. How-
ever, they were much in the wrong, since they had the advantage,
that they did not disarm them effectually, as they might have done,
and have gone immediately to the Spaniards, and given them an
account how the rogues had treated them; for the three villains
studied nothing but revenge, and every day gave them some
intimation that they did so.
But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part of
their rogueries, such as treading down their corn, shooting three
young kids and a she-goat, which the poor men had got to breed
up tame for their store, and, in a word, plaguing them night and
day in this manner, it forced the two men to such a desperation,
that they resolved to fight them all three the first time they had a
fair opportunity. In order to this, they resolved to go to the
castle, as they called it, that was my old dwelling, where the three
rogues and the Spaniards all lived together at that time, intending
to have a fair battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to see
fair play. So they got up in the morning before day, and came
to the place, and called the Englishmen by their names, telling a
Spaniard, that answered, that they wanted to speak with them.
It happened that, the day before, two of the Spaniards having
been in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom,
for distinction, I call the honest men; and he had made a sad
complaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met
with from their three countrymen, and how they had ruined their
plantation, and destroyed their corn that they had laboured so
hard to bring forward, and killed the milch-goat, and their three
kids, which was all they had provided for their sustenance—and
that, if he and his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist
them again, they should be starved. When the Spaniards came
home at night, and they were all at supper, he took the freedom
to reprove the three Englishmen, though in gentle and mannerly
terms, and asked them how they could be so cruel, they being
harmless, inoffensive fellows, and that they were putting them-
ADVENTURES OF
selves in a way to subsist by their labour, and that it had cost
them a great deal to bring things to such perfection as they had.
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, "What had they
to do there? That they came on shore without leave, and that
they should not plant or build upon the island; it was none of
their ground." "Why," says the Spaniard very calmly, "Seignior
Inglese, they must not starve." The Englishman replied, like a
true rough-hewn tarpaulin, "They might starve, if they chose;
they should not plant nor build in that place." "But what must
they do, then, Seignior?" says the Spaniard. Another of the
brutes returned, " Do! why, they should be servants, and work
for them." "But how can you expect that of them? They are
not bought with your money; you have no right to make them
servants." The Englishmen answered, "The island was theirs,
the governor had given it to them, and no man had anything to
do there but themselves;" and, with that, swore by his Maker
that he would go and burn all their new huts—they should build
none upon their land.
"Why, Seignior," said the Spaniards, "by the same rule, we
must be your servants too." "Ay," says the bold dog, "and so
you shall too, before we have done with you;" mixing two or
three oaths in the proper intervals of his speech. The Spaniard
only smiled at that, and made him no answer. However, this
little discourse had heated them; and starting up, one says to the
other—I think it was he they called Will Atkins—" Come, Jack,
let us go and have the other brush with them; we will demolish
their castle, I will warrant you; they shall plant no colony in our
dominions."
Upon this they were all trooping away, with every man a gun,
a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among
themselves, of what they would do to the Spaniards, too, when
opportunity offered; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not so
perfectly understand them as to know all the particulars,—only
that, in general, they threatened them hard for taking the two
Englishmen's part
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that even-
ing, the Spaniards said they did not know, but it seems they wan-
dered about the country part of the night; and then, lying down
in the place which I used to call my bower, they were weary, and
overslept themselves. The case was this:—They had resolved
301
to stay till midnight, so to take the poor men when they were
asleep; and they acknowledged it afterwards, intending to set fire
to their huts while they were in them, and either burn them in
them, or murder them as they came out: and, as malice seldom
sleeps very sound, it was very strange they should not have been
kept waking.
However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I
have said, though a much fairer one than that of burning and
murdering, it happened, and very luckily for them all, that they
were up and gone abroad before the bloody-minded rogues came
to their huts.
When they came thither, and found the men gone, Atkins, who,
it seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his companions,
"Ha! Jack, here's the nest; but the birds are flown!" They
mused awhile to think what should be the occasion of their going
abroad so soon, and suggested presently that the Spaniards had
given them notice of it: and with that they shook hands and swore
to one another that they would be revenged of the Spaniards.
As soon as they had made this bloody bargain, they fell to work with the poor men's habitation—they did not set fire indeed to
anything, but they pulled down both their houses, and pulled them
so limb from limb that they left not the least stick standing, or
scarce any sign on the ground where they stood: they tore all
their little collected household stuff in pieces, and threw everything
about in such a manner, that the poor men found afterwards some
of their things a mile off from their habitation.
When they had done this they pulled up all the young trees
which the poor men had planted—pulling up the enclosure they
had made to secure their cattle and their corn: and, in a word,
sacked and plundered everything as completely as a herd of
Tartars would have done.
The two men were at this juncture gone to find them out, and
had resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though they
were but two to three—so that, had they met, there certainly
would have been bloodshed among them; for they were all very
stout, resolute fellows, to give them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them asunder, than
they themselves could do to meet—for, as they had dogged one
another, when the three were gone thither, the two were here—
and afterwards, when the two went to find them, the three were
ADVENTURES OF
come to the old habitation again: we shall see their differing
conduct presently. When the three came back like furious
creatures, flushed with the rage which the work they had been about put them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told
them what they had done, by way of scoff and bravado; and one
of them, stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been
a couple of boys at play, takes hold of his hat, as it was upon his
head, and, giving it a twirl about, fleering in his face, says to him,
"And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if
you do not mend your manners." The Spaniard, who, though
quite a civil man, was as brave as a man could desire to be, and
withal a strong, well-made man, looked steadily at him for a good
while; and then, having no weapon in his hand, stepped gravely
up to him, and with one blow of his fist knocked him down, as an
ox is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the rogues, insolent
as the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard immediately : he missed
his body indeed, for the bullets went through his hair, but one of
them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much. The
blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than he really
was, and that put him into some heat; for before he acted all in
a perfect calm, bnt now, resolving to go through with his work,
he stooped and took the fellow's musket whom he had knocked
down, and was just going to shoot the man who had fired at him,
when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, came out, and
calling to him not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the other
two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all
the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own countrymen,
they began to cool, and, giving the Spaniards better words, would
have had their arms again; but the Spaniards considering
the feud that was between them and the other two Englishmen,
and that it would be the best method they could take to keep
them from one another, told them they would do them no harm,—
and, if they would live peaceably, they would be very willing to
assist and associate with them as they did before, but that they
could not think of giving them their arms again, while they
appeared so resolved to do mischief with them to their own
countrymen, and had even threatened them all to make them
their servants.
The rogues were not more capable to hear reason than to act
reason; but being refused their arms, they went raving away, and
raging like madmen, threatening what they would do, though
they had no firearms: but the Spaniards, despising their threat-
ening, told them they should take care how they offered an injury
to their plantation or cattle; for if they did, they would shoot
them as they would do ravenous beasts, wherever they found
them, and if they fell into their hands alive, they should certainly
be hanged. However, this was far from cooling them: but away
they went, swearing and raging like furies of hell. As soon as
they were gone, came back the two men in passion and rage
enough also, though of another kind; for, having been at their
plantation, and finding it all demolished and destroyed, as above,
it will easily be supposed that they had provocation enough: they
could scarce have room to tell their tale, the Spaniards were so
eager to tell them theirs; and it was strange enough to find that
three men should thus bully nineteen, and receive no punish-
ment at all.
The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially having
thus disarmed them, made light of their threatenings; but the two
Englishmen resolved to have their remedy against them, what
pain soever it cost to find them out
But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them they
were already disarmed: they could not consent that they (the two)
should pursue them with firearms, and perhaps kill them. "But,"
said the grave Spaniard, who was their governor, "we will endea-
vour to make them do you justice, if you will leave it to us; for
as there is no doubt but they will come to us again when their
passion is over, being not able to subsist without our assistance, we
promise you to make no peace with them, without having a full
satisfaction for you: and upon this condition we hope you will
promise to use no violence with them, other than in your defence."
The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly and with
great reluctance, but the Spaniards protested they did it only to
keep them from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last; for,
said they, we are not so many of us—here is room enough for us
all, and it is a great pity we should not be all good friends. At
length they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing,
living for some days with the Spaniards; for their own habitation
was destroyed.
In about five days' time the three vagrants, tired with wander-
ADVENTURES OF
ing, and almost starved with hunger, came back to the grove;
and finding my Spaniard and two more with him, walking by the
side of the creek, they came up in a very submissive humble
manner, and begged to be received again into the family. The
Spaniards used them very civilly, but told them they had acted
so unnaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by them
(the Spaniards), that they could not come to any conclusion with-
out consulting the two Englishmen and the rest; but, however,
they would go to them, and discourse about it, and they should
know in half an hour.
After half an hour's consultation they were called in, and a
long debate had about them, their two countrymen charging them
with the ruin of all their labour, and a design to murder them;
all which they owned before, and therefore could not deny now.
Upon the whole, the Spaniards acted as moderators between
them; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt
the three, while they were naked and unarmed, so they now
obliged the three to go and rebuild their fellows' two huts, one to
be of the same dimensions, and the other larger than they were
before; also to fence their ground again, where they had pulled
up the fences; plant trees in the room of those pulled up; dig
up the land again for planting corn, where they had spoiled it;
and, in a word, to restore everything in the same state as they
found it; as near as they could,—for entirely it could not be, the
season for the corn, and the growth of the trees and hedges, not
being possible to be recovered.
Well, they all submitted to this; and as they had plenty of
provisions given them all the while, they grew very orderly, only
that these three fellows could never be persuaded to work for
themselves, except now and then a little, just as they pleased.
Thus, having lived pretty well together for a month or two, the
Spaniards gave them their arms again, and gave them liberty to
go abroad with them as before. It was not above a week after
they had these arms, and went abroad, but the ungrateful creatures
began to be as insolent as before; but, however, an accident
happened presently upon this, which endangered the safety of
them all: they were obliged to lay by all private resentment, and
look to the preservation of their lives.
It happened one night that the Spaniard governor, as I call
him—that is to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, who
305
was now the captain, or leader, or governor of the rest—found
himself very uneasy in the night, and could by no means get any
sleep: he was perfectly well in body, only found his thoughts
tumultuous, and his mind run upon men fighting, and killing one
another; and, growing more and more uneasy, he resolved to rise.
Being thus gotten up, he looked out; but, being dark, he could see
little or nothing: and besides, the trees which I had planted, as in
my former account is described, and which were now grown tall,
intercepted his sight, so that he could only look up and see that
it was a clear starlight night; and, hearing no noise, he returned
and laid him down again. But it was all one; he could not sleep,
nor could he compose himself to anything like rest, but his thoughts
were to the last degree uneasy, and ) et he knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going
out and coming in, another of them waked, and, calling, asked
who it was that was up? The governor told him how it had been
with him. "Say you so?" says the other Spaniard; "such things
are not to be slighted, I assure you: there is certainly some
mischief working," says he, "near us ;" and presently he asked
him, "Where are the Englishmen ?"—" They are all in their
huts," says he, "safe enough." It seems, the Spaniards had kept
possession of the main apartment, and had made a place where
the three Englishmen, since their last mutiny, always quartered
by themselves, and could not come at the rest. "Well," says
the Spaniard, "there is something in it, I am persuaded from my
own experience; I am certain our spirits embodied have converse
with, and receive intelligence from, the spirits unembodied, and
inhabiting the invisible world; and this friendly notice is given
for our advantage, if we know how to make use of it. Come,"
says he, "let us go out and look abroad; and if we find nothing
at all in it to justify our trouble, I'll tell you a story to the pur-
pose, that shall convince you of the justice of my proposing it."
In a word, they went out to go to the top of the hill, where I
used to go; but they, being strong, and in good company, nor
alone, as I was, used none of my cautions to go up by the ladder,
and then, pulling it up after them, to go up a second stage to the
top, but were going round through the grove unconcerned and
unwary, when they were surprised with seeing a light as of fire, a
very little way off from them, and hearing the voices of men, not
of one or two, but of a great number.
U
ADVENTURES OF
Whether it was the consequence of the escape of the three savages
in our last encounter, who jumped into the boat, and of whom I
mentioned that I was afraid they should go home and bring more
help, that so great a number came now together; or whether they
came ignorantly, and by accident, on their usual bloody errand,
the Spaniards could not, it seems, understand: but whatever it
was, it had been their business to have concealed themselves, and
to have fallen upon them so effectually, as that not a man of them
should have escaped, which could only have been by getting in
between them and their boats: but this presence of mind was want-
ing to them, which was the ruin of their tranquillity for a great while.
We need not doubt but that the governor, and the man with him,
surprised with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised their
fellows, giving them an account of the imminent danger they were
all in, and they again as readily took the alarm; but it was im-
possible to persuade them to stay close within where they were,
but that they must all run out to see how things stood.
While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they had
opportunity enough, for some hours, to view them by the light of
three fires they had made at some distance from one another.
What they were doing they knew not, and what to do themselves
they knew not; for, first, the enemy were too many; and, secondly,
they did not keep together, but were divided into several parties,
and were on shore in several places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight; and
as they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore,
they made no doubt but some of them would chop in upon their
habitation, or upon some other place where they would see the
tokens of inhabitants; and they were in great perplexity also for
fear of their flock of goats, which would have been little less than
starving them, if they should have been destroyed. Could they
have seen the savages all together in one body, and at a distance
from their canoes, they resolved, if there had been an hundred of
them, to have attacked them; but that could not be obtained, for
there were some of them two miles off from the other, and, as it
appeared afterwards, were of two different nations.
After having mused a great while on the course they should
take, and exerted themselves in considering their present circum-
stances, they resolved at last, while it was dark, to send the old
savage (Friday's father) out as a spy to learn, if possible, something
307
concerning them, as to what they came for, and what they intended
to do, and the like. The old man undertook it without hesita-
tion, and stripping himself quite naked, as most of the savages
were, away he went. After he had been gone an hour or two, he
brings word that he had been among them undiscovered, that he
found they were two parties, and of two several nations, who had
war with one another, and had had a great battle in their own
country; and that both sides, having had several prisoners taken
in the fight, they were, by mere chance, landed on the same island
for the devouring their prisoners, and making merry; but their
coming so by chance to the same place had spoiled all their mirth:
that they were in a great rage at one another, and were so near,
that he believed they would fight again as soon as daylight began
to appear; but he did not perceive that they had any notion of
anybody's being on the island but themselves. He had hardly
made an end of telling the story, when he could perceive, by the
unusual noise they made, that the two little armies were engaged
in a bloody fight.
Friday's father used all the arguments he could to persuade our
people to lie close, and not to be seen; but it was impossible to
prevail, especially upon the Englishmen—their curiosity was so
importunate upon their prudentials, that they must run out and
see the battle: however, they used some caution, namely, they
did not go openly just by their own dwelling, but went farther
into the woods, and placed themselves to advantage, where they
might securely see them manage the fight, and, as they thought,
not be seen by them; but it seems the savages did see them, as
we shall find hereafter.
The battle was very fierce, and, if I might believe the English-
men, one of them said he could perceive that some of them were
men of great bravery, of invincible spirits, and great policy in guid-
ing the fight. The battle, they said, held two hours, before they
could guess which party would be beaten; but then that party
which was nearest our people's habitation began to appear weakest,
and after some time more, some of them began to fly: and this
put our men again into a great consternation, lest any of those
that fled should run into the grove before their dwelling for shelter,
and thereby involuntarily discover the place, and that, by conse-
quence, the pursuers should do the like in search of them. Upon
this they resolved that they would stand armed within the wall,
ADVENTURES OF
and whoever came into the grove, they should sally out over the
wall and kill them—so that, if possible, not one should return to
give an account of it. They ordered also, that it should be done
with their swords, or by knocking them down with the stock of
the musket, not by shooting them, for fear of raising an alarm by
the noise
.
As they expected, it fell out: three of the routed army fled for
life, and, crossing the creek, ran directly into the place, not in the
least knowing whither they went, but running as into a thick
wood for shelter. The scout they kept to look abroad gave notice
of this within—with this addition, to our men's great satisfaction,
namely, that the conquerors had not pursued them, or seen which
way they were gone. Upon this, the Spaniard governor, a man
of humanity, would not suffer them to kill the fugitives; but
sending three men out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go
round and come in behind them, surprise, and take them
prisoners; which was done. The residue of the conquered
people fled to their canoes and got off to sea; the victors retired,
and made no pursuit, or very little, but, drawing themselves into
a body together, gave two great screaming shouts, which they
supposed were by way of triumph, and so the fight ended: and
the same day, about three o'clock in the afternoon, they also
marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their
island again free to themselves, the fight was over, and they saw
no savages in several years after.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den,
and, viewing the field of battle, they found about two-and-thirty
dead men upon the spot They found not one wounded man
that was not stone dead; for either these savages stay by their
enemy till they have quite killed them, or they carry all the
wounded men, that are not quite dead, away with them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while: the
sight had filled them with horror, and the consequence appeared
terrible to the last degree, especially upon supposing that some
time or other they should fall into the hands of those creatures,
who would not only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food,
as we kill our cattle. This, as I said, tamed even the three
English brutes I have been speaking of, and, for a great while
after, they were very tractable, and went about the common busi-
ness of the whole society well enough—planted, sowed, reaped,
309
and began to be all naturalised to the country; but some time
after this, they fell all into such simple measures again as brought
them into a deal of trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I had observed; and these
three being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them servants,
and taught them to work for them: and as slaves they did well
enough; but they did not take their measures with them as I did
with my man Friday, namely, to begin with them upon the prin-
ciple of having saved their lives, and then instructed them in the
rational principles of life, much less of religion, civilising and
reducing them by kind usage and affectionate arguings; but as
they gave them their food every day, so they gave them their
work too, and kept them fully employed in drudgery enough: but
they failed in this by it, that they never had them to assist them
and fight for them, as I had my man Friday, who was as true to
me as the very flesh upon my bones.
But to come to the family part Being all now good friends
(for common danger, as I said above, had effectually reconciled
them), they began to consider their general circumstances; and
the first thing that came under their consideration was, whether,
seeing the savages particularly haunted that side of the island,
and that there were more remote and retired parts of it equally
adapted to their way of living, they should not rather remove
their habitation.
After long debate, it was conceived that they should not remove
their habitation, because they thought they might hear from their
governor again, meaning me; and if I should send any one to
seek them, I would be sure to direct them on that side, where, if
they should find the place demolished, they would conclude the
savages had killed them all, and they were gone, and so their
supply would go away too. But as to their corn and cattle, they
agreed to remove them into the valley where my cave was, where
the land was as proper to both, and where indeed there was land
enough: however, upon second thoughts, they altered one part
of that resolution too, and resolved only to remove part of their
cattle thither, and plant part of their corn there; and so, if one
part was destroyed, the other might be saved: and one piece of
prudence they used, which it was very well they did, namely, that
they never trusted these three savages which they had taken
prisoners with knowing anything of the plantation they had made
in that valley, or of any cattle they had there, much less of
the cave there, which they kept in case of necessity as a safe
retreat; and thither they carried also the two barrels of powder
which I had left them at my coming away.
But, however, they resolved not to change their habitation; yet
they agreed that, as I had carefully covered it first with a wall and
fortification and then with a grove of trees, so, seeing their safety
consisted entirely in their being concealed, of which they were now
fully convinced, they set to work to cover and conceal the place
yet more effectually than before.
I return to the story. They lived two years after this in perfect
retirement, and had no more visits from the savages. They had
indeed an alarm given them one morning, which put them in a
great consternation; for some of the Spaniards being out early
one morning on the west side, or rather end, of the island—which
by the way was that end where I never went, for fear of being dis-
covered—they were surprised by seeing above twenty canoes of
Indians just coming on shore.
They made the best of their way home in hurry enough, and
giving the alarm to their comrades, they kept close all that day
and the next, going out only at night to make observations; but
they had the good luck to be mistaken, for wherever the savages
went, they did not land at that time on the island, but pursued
some other design.
And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen, one
of which, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one of the
three slaves which I mentioned they had taken, because the fellow
had not done something right which he bade him do, and seemed
a little untractable in his showing him, drew a hatchet out of a
frogbelt in which he bore it by his side, and fell upon him, the
poor savage, not to correct him, but to kill him. One of the
Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous cut
with the hatchet, which he aimed at his head, but struck into his
shoulder, so that he thought he had cut the poor creature's arm
off, ran to him, and, entreating him not to murder the poor man,
clapped in between him and the savage to prevent the mischief.
The fellow, being enraged the more at this, struck at the Spaniard
with his hatchet, and swore he would serve him as he intended to
serve the savage; which the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the
blow, and with a shovel which he had in his hand (for they were
3"
working in the field about the corn-land) knocked the brute down:
another of the Englishmen, running at the same time to help his
comrade, knocked the Spaniard down, and then two Spaniards
more came to help their man, and a third Englishman fell upon
them. They had none of them any fire-arms, or any other weapon
but hatchets and other tools, except the third Englishman: he had
one of my old rusty cutlasses, with which he made at the last
Spaniards, and wounded them both. This fray set the whole
family in an uproar, and, more help coming in, they took the three
Englishmen prisoners. The next question was, what should be
done with them? They had been so often mutinous, and were so
furious, so desperate, and so idle withal, that they knew not what
course to take with them, for they were mischievous to the highest
degree, and valued not what hurt they did any man; so that, in
short, it was not safe to live with them.
The Spaniard who was governor, told them, in so many words,
that if they had been his own countrymen he would have hanged
them all—for all laws and all governors were to preserve society,
and those who were dangerous to society ought to be expelled
out of it; but, as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the
generous kindness of an Englishman that they all owed their
preservation and deliverance, he would use them with all possible
lenity, and would leave them to the judgment of the other two
Englishmen, who were their countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen then stood up, and said
they desired it might not be left to them: "For," says he, "I am
sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows;" and with that
gives an account how Will Atkins, one of the three, had proposed
to have all the five Englishmen join together, and murder all the
Spaniards when they were in their sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will Atkins: "How! Seignior Atkins," says he, "will you murder us all?
What have you to say to that?" That hardened villain was so
far from denying it, that he said it was true, and declared they
would do it still before they had done with them. "Well, but,
Seignior Atkins," said the Spaniard, "what have we done to you
that you would kill us? And what would you get by killing us?
And what must we do to prevent you killing us? Must we kill
you, or will you kill us? Why will you put us to the necessity of
this, Seignior Atkins?" asks the Spaniard very calmly and smiling.
ADVENTURES OF
Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's making a
jest of it, that had he not been held by three men, and withal had
no weapons with him, it was thought he would have attempted to
have killed the Spaniard in the middle of all the company.
This hairbrained carriage obliged them to consider seriously
what was to be done. After a long debate, it was agreed, first,
that they should be disarmed, and not permitted to have either a
gun, or powder, or shot, or sword, or any weapon, and should be
turned out of the society, and left to live where they would, and
how they could, by themselves; but that none of the rest, either
Spaniards or English, should converse with them, speak with them,
or have anything to do with them; that they should be forbid to
come within a certain distance of the place where the rest dwelt;
and that, if they offered to commit any disorder, so as to spoil,
burn, kill, or destroy any of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences,
or cattle belonging to the society, they should die without mercy.
The governor, a man of great humanity, musing upon the
sentence, considered a little upon it, and, turning to the two
honest Englishmen, said, "Hold, you must reflect that it will be
long ere they can raise corn and cattle of their own, and they
must not starve—we must therefore allow them provisions." So
he caused to be added, that they should have a proportion of
corn given them to last them eight months, and for seed to sow,
by which time they might be supposed to raise some of their own;
that they should have six milch-goats, four he-goats, and six kids,
given them, as well for present subsistence as for a store; and
that they should have tools given them for their work in the field
-—such as six hatchets, an axe, a saw, and the like; but they
should have none of these tools or provisions unless they would
swear solemnly that they would not hurt or injure any of the
Spaniards with them, or their fellow Englishmen.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to
shift for themselves. They went away sullen and refractory, as
neither contented to go away or to stay; but as there was no
remedy, they went pretending to go and choose a place where
they should settle themselves, to plant and live by themselves,
and some provisions were given them, but no weapons.
They lived in this separate condition about six months, and had
got in their first harvest, but when the rainy season came on, for
want of a cave in the earth, they could not keep their grain dry:
313
so they came and begged the Spaniards to help them, which they
very readily did, and in four days worked a great hole in the side
of the hill for them, big enough to secure their corn and other
things from the rain.
About three quarters of a year after this separation, a new
frolic took these rogues, which, together with the former villany
they had committed, brought mischief enough upon them, and
had very near been the ruin of the whole colony.
The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one morning,
and, in very humble terms, desired to be admitted to speak with
them: the Spaniards very readily heard what they had to say,
which was this—that they were tired of living in the manner they
did, that they were not handy enough to make the necessaries
they wanted, and that, having no help, they found they should be
starved; but if the Spaniards would give them leave to take one
of the canoes which they came over in, and give them arms and
ammunition proportioned to their defence, they would go over to
the main, and seek their fortune, and so deliver them from the
trouble of supplying them with any other provisions.
The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that, if they were
resolved to go, they should not go like naked men, and be in no
condition to defend themselves; and that, though they could ill
spare their firearms, having not enough for themselves, yet they
would let them have two muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and each
man a hatchet, which they thought sufficient for them.
In a word, they accepted the offer; and having baked them
bread enough to serve them a month, and given them as much
goat's flesh as they could eat while it was sweet, and a great basket
full of dried grapes, a pot full of fresh water, and a young kid
alive to kill, they boldly set out in a canoe for a voyage over the
sea, where it was at least forty miles broad . The boat was, indeed,
a large one, and would have very well carried fifteen or twenty
men, and therefore was rather too big for them to manage; but, as
they had a fair breeze, and the flood-tide with them, they did well
enough. They had made a mast of a long pole, and a sail of four
large goat-skins dried, which they had sewed or laced together, and
away they went merrily enough: the Spaniards called after them.
"Bon veajo," and no man ever thought of seeing them any more.
After twenty-two days absence, one of the two honest English-
men being abroad upon his planting work, sees three strange men
ADVENTURES OF
coming towards him, two of them with guns upon their shoulders.
Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, and came,
frighted and amazed, to the governor Spaniard, and tells him they
were all undone, for there were strangers landed upon the island,
he could not tell who. The Spaniard, pausing awhile, says to
him, "How do you mean, you cannot tell who? They are
savages, to be sure." "No, no," says the Englishman, "they are
men in clothes, with arms." "Nay, then," says the Spaniard,
"why are you concerned? If they are not savages, they must be
friends; for there is no Christian nation upon earth but will do us
good rather than harm."
While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen, and,
standing without the wood which was new planted, hallooed to them;
they presently knewtheir voices, so all thewonder of that kindceased.
But now the admiration was turned upon another question, namely,
what could be the matter, and what made them come back again.
It was not long before they brought the men in: and, inquiring
where they had been, and what they had been doing, they gave
them a full account of their voyage in a few words—namely, that
they reached the land in two days, or something less; but, finding
the people alarmed at their coming, and preparing with bows and
arrows to fight them, they durst not go on shore, but sailed on to
the northward six or seven hours, till they came to a great opening,
by which they perceived that the land they saw from our island
was not the main, but an island; that, entering that opening of
the sea, they saw another island on the right hand north, and
several more west, and, being resolved to land somewhere, they
put over to one of the islands which lay west, and went boldly on
shore; that they found the people very courteous and friendly to
them, and they gave them several roots, and some dried fish, and
appeared very sociable; and the women, as well as the men, were
very forward to supply them with anything they could get for them
to eat, and brought it to them a great way upon their heads.
They continued here for four days, and inquired, as well as they
could of them by signs, what nations were this way and that way,
and were told of several fierce and terrible people that lived almost
every way, who as they made known by signs to them, used
to eat men; but, as for themselves, they said that they never ate
men or women, except only such as they took in the wars, and then
they owned that they made a great feast, and ate their prisoners.
3'S
The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that kind, and
they told them two moons ago, pointing to the moon, and then to
two fingers; and that their great king had two hundred prisoners
now, which he had taken in his war, and they were feeding
them to make them fat for the next feast The Englishmen
seemed mighty desirous to see those prisoners, but the others,
mistaking them, thought they were desirous to have some of them
to carry away for their own eating; so they beckoned to them,
pointing to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising; which
was to signify that the next morning, at sun-rising, they would bring
some for them; and accordingly, the next morning they brought
down five women and eleven men, and gave them to the English-
men to carry with them on their voyage, just as we would bring so
many cows and oxen down to a sea-port town to victual a ship.
To refuse the prisoners, would have been the highest affront to
the savage gentry that offered them, and what to do with them
they knew not. However, upon some debate, they resolved to
accept of them; and, in return, they gave the savages that brought
them one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six or seven
of their bullets, which, though they did not understand, they seemed
extremely pleased with; and then, tying the poor creatures' hands
behind them, they (the people) dragged the prisoners into the
boat for our men.
Having taken their leave, with all the respect and thanks that
could well pass between people, where on either side they under-
stood not one word they could say, the Englishmen put off with
their boat, and came back towards the first island, where, when
they arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being
too many of them for their occasion.
In their voyage they endeavoured to have some communication
with their prisoners, but it was impossible to make them understand
anything; nothing they could say to them, or give them or do for
them, but was looked upon as going about to murder them; they
first of all unbound them, but the poor creatures screamed at that,
especially the women, as if they had just felt the knife at their
throats; for they immediately concluded they were unbound on
purpose to be killed . If they gave them anything to eat, it was
the same thing; then they concluded it was for fear they should
sink in flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill; if they looked at
one of them more particularly, the party presently concluded it was
ADVENTURES OF
to see whether he or she was fattest or fittest to kill first; nay, after
they had brought them quite over, and begun to use them kindly
and treat them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner
or supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable history
or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their
new family was? and being told that they had brought them on
shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come to beg
some victuals for them, they (the Spaniards) and the two other
Englishmen—that is to say, the whole colony—resolved to go all
down to the place and see them, and did so, and Friday's father
with them.
When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound; for
when they had brought them on shore they bound their hands,
that they might not take the boat and make their escape—there,
I say, they sat, all of them stark naked . First, there were three
men, lusty, comely fellows, well-shaped, with straight and fair limbs,
about thirty or thirty-five years of age; and five women, whereof
two might be from thirty to forty, two more not above twenty-four
or twenty-five, and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about sixteen
or seventeen. The women were well-favoured, agreeable persons,
both in shape and features, only tawny; and two of them, had they
been perfect white, would have passed for handsome women even
in London itself, having very pleasant, agreeable countenances, and
of a very modest behaviour, especially when they came afterwards
to be clothed, and dressed, as they called it, though that dress was
very indifferent, it must be confessed.
The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's
father, to go in and see first if he knew any of them, and then if he
, understood any of their speech. As soon as the old man came in,
he looked seriously at them, but knew none of them, neither could
any of them understand a word he said, or a sign he could make,
except one of the women. However, this was enough to answer
the end, which was to satisfy them that the men into whose hands
they were fallen were Christians, that they abhorred the eating of
men or women, and that they might be sure they would not be
killed . As soon as they were assured of this, they discovered such
a joy, and by such awkward and several ways, as is hard to describe,
for it seems they were of several nations.
The woman, who was their interpreter, was bid to ask them if
317
they were willing to be servants, and to work for the men who had
brought them away to save their lives? at which they fell a
dancing; and presently one fell to taking up this, and another
that—anything that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to inti-
mate that they were willing to work
.
The governor, who found that the having women among them
would presently be attended with some inconveniency, and might
occasion some strife, and perhaps blood, asked the three men what
they intended to do with these women, and how they intended to
use them, whether as servants or as wives? One of the English-
men answered very boldly and readily, that they would use them
as both. To which the governor said, "I am not going to restrain
you from it,—you are your own masters as to that; but this I think
is but just, for avoiding disorders and quarrels among you, and I
desire it of you for that reason only, namely, that you will all engage
that, if any of you take any of these women as a wife, he shall take
but one." All this appeared so just, that every one agreed to it
without any difficulty.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed to
take any of them? But every one answered, No. Some of them
said they had wives in Spain; and the others did not like women
that were not Christians: and all together declared that they
would not touch one of them, which was an instance of such virtue
as I have not met with in all my travels. On the other hand, t»
be short, the five Englishmen took them every one a wife; and so
they set up a new form of living, for the Spaniards and Friday's
father lived in my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceed-
ingly within: the three servants, which they had taken in the late
battle of the savages, lived with them; and these carried on the
main part of the colony, supplying all the rest with food, and
assisting them in anything as they could, or as they found neces-
sity required.
But the wonder of this story was, how five such refractory, ill-
matched fellows, should agree about these women, and that two of
them should not pitch upon the same woman, especially seeing two
or three of them were, without comparison, more agreeable than the
others: but they took a good way enough to prevent quarrelling
among themselves; for they set the five women by themselves in
one of their huts, and they went all into the other hut, and drew
lots among them who should choose first He that drew to choose
ADVENTURES OP
first, went away by himself to the hut where the poor creatures
were, and fetched out her he chose; and it was worth observing,
that he that chose first took her that was reckoned the homeliest
and the oldest of the five, which made mirth enough among the
irest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it: but the fellow con-
sidered better than any of them, that it was application and busi-
ness that they were to expect assistance in as much as anything
else; and she proved the best wife in the parcel.
When they had all chosen their wives, the men went to work, and
the Spaniards came and helped them; and in a few hours they had
built them every one a new hut or tent for their lodging apart The
three wicked ones had pitched farthest off, and the two honest ones
nearer, but both on the north shore of the island, so that they con-
tinued separate as before: and thus my island was peopled in three
places, and, as I might say, three towns were begun to be planted.
And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it often happens
in the world (what the wise ends of God's providence are in such
a disposition of things, I cannot say), the two honest fellows had
the two worst wives; and the three reprobates, that were scarce
worth hanging, that were fit for nothing, and neither seemed born
to do themselves good, nor any one else, had three clever, diligent,
careful, and ingenious wives—not that the two first were ill wives
as to their temper or humour, for all the five were most willing,
quiet, passive, and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than
wives; but my meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious,
or industrious, or alike cleanly and neat
As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they
were much civilised by their new settlement, compared to what
they were before, and were not so quarrelsome, having not the
same opportunity, yet one of the certain companions of a profligate
mind never left them, and that was their idleness. It is true, they
planted corn and made fences; but Solomon's words were never
better verified than in them—" I went by the vineyard of the sloth-
ful, and it was overgrown with thorns;" for when the Spaniards
came to view their crop, they could not see it in some places for
weeds; the hedge had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had
gotten in and eaten up the corn; perhaps here and there a dead
bush was crammed in to stop them out for the present, but it was
only shutting the stable-door after the steed was stolen: whereas,
when they looked on the colony of the other two, there was the
319
very face of industry and success upon all they did; there was not
a weed to be seen in all their corn, or a gap in any of their hedges;
and they, on the other hand, verified Solomon's words in another
place: "The diligent hand maketh rich;" for everything grew
and thrived, and they had plenty within and without; they had
more tame cattle than the others, more utensils and necessaries
within doors, and yet more pleasure and diversion too. The dili-
gent lived well and comfortably, and the slothful lived hard and beg-
garly; and so I believe, generally speaking, it is all over the world
.
But now I come to a scene different from all that had happened
before, either to them or me; and the origin of the story was this:
—Early one morning there came on shore five or six canoes of
Indians, or savages, call them which you please; and there is no
room to doubt that they came upon the old errand of feeding upon
their slaves: but that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards,
and to our men too, that they had nothing to do but to give notice
to all the three plantations to keep within doors, and not to show
themselves,—only placing a scout in a proper place, to give notice
when the boats went off to sea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled all
these measures, and made it known among the savages that there
were inhabitants there, which was in the end, the desolation of
almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the savages were
gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of them
had the curiosity to go to the place where they had been, to see
what they had been doing. Here, to their great surprise, they
found three savages left behind, and lying fast asleep upon the
ground . The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and
perfectly at a loss what to do. After some consultation, they
resolved upon this, that they would lie still a while longer, till, if
possible, these three men might be gone: but then the governor
Spaniard recollected that the three savages had no boat, and that
if they were left to rove about the island, they would certainly dis-
cover that there were inhabitants in it, and so they should be
undone that way. Upon this, they went back again, and there
lay the fellows fast asleep still; so they resolved to awaken them,
and take them prisoners; and they did so, and away they carried
them, first to the bower, where was the chief of their country work,
and afterwards to the habitation of the two Englishmea Here
they were set to work, though it was not much they had for them
ADVENTURES OF
to do; and whether it was by negligence in guarding them, or
that they thought the fellows could not mend themselves, I know
not, but one of them ran away, and, taking into the woods, they
could never hear of him more.
They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after
in some other boats or canoes of savages, who came on shore
three or four weeks afterwards, and who, carrying on their revels
as usual, went off again in two days time. This thought terrified
them exceedingly; for they concluded, and that not without good
cause indeed, that if this fellow got safe home among his comrades,
he would certainly give them an account that there were people
in the island, as also how weak and few they were. The first
testimony they had that this fellow had given intelligence of them
was, that, about two months after this, six canoes of savages, with
about seven, or eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along
the north side of the island, where they never used to come before,
and landed, about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place
about a mile from the habitation of the two Englishmen, where
this escaped man had been kept
When the poor frighted men had secured their wives and
goods, they sent one of the slaves they had of the three who came
with the women, and who was at their place by accident, away to
the Spaniards with all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire
speedy help; and, in the meantime, they took their arms and
what ammunition they had, and retreated towards the place in the
wood where their wives were sent, keeping at a distance, yet so
that they might see, if possible, which way the savages took.
They had not gone far but that, from a rising ground, they
could see the little army of their enemies come on directly to
their habitation, and in a moment more could see all their huts and
household stuff flaming up together, to their great grief and mor-
tification; for they had a very great loss, and to them irretrievable,
at least for some time. They kept their station for a while, till
they found the savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves all
over the place, rummaging every place they could think of in
search for prey, and, in particular, for the people, of whom it
plainly appeared they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen, seeing this, thought it proper to make
another retreat about half a mile further, believing, as it afterwards
happened, that the farther they strolled, the fewer would be
1
311
together. The next halt was at the entrance into a very thick
grown part of the woods, and where an old trunk of a tree stood,
which was hollow and vastly large; and in this tree they both
took their standing, resolving to see what might offer. They had
not stood there long, but two of the savages appeared running
directly that way, and a little way farther they espied three more
coming after them, and five more beyond them, all coming the
same way: besides which, they saw seven or eight more at a
distance, running another way; for, in a word, they ran every way,
like sportsmen beating for their game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity, but after a very
short debate, they resolved to stand them there, and if there were
too many to deal with, then they would get to the top of the tree,
from whence they doubted not to defend themselves, fire excepted,
as long as their ammunition lasted. They next considered whether
they should fire at the two first, or wait for the three, and so take
the middle party, by which the two and the five that followed
would be separated; at length they resolved to let the two first
pass by, unless they should spy them in the tree, and come to
attack them. The two first savages also confirmed them in this
resolution, by turning a little from them towards another part of
the wood; but the three, and the five after them, came forwards
directly to the tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were
there. As the savages came on, they plainly saw that one of the
three was the runaway savage that had escaped from them, and
they resolved that, if possible, he should not escape, though they
should both fire; so the other stood ready with his piece, that, ii
he did not drop at the first shot, he should be sure to have a
second. But the first was too good a marksman to miss his aim;
for as the savages kept near one another a little behind in a line,
he fired, and hit two of them directly; the foremost was killed
outright, being shot in the head; the second, which was the run-
away Indian, was shot through the body and fell, but was not quite
dead; and the third had a little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps
by the same ball that went through the body of the second, and
being dreadfully frighted, though not much hurt, sat down upon
the ground, screaming and yelling in a hideous manner.
The five that were behind, more frighted with the noise than
sensible of their danger, stood still at first; for the woods made
the sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes
322 ADVENTURES OFrattling from one side to another. However, all being silent
again, and they not knowing what the matter was, came on un-
concerned to the place were their companions lay; and here the
poor ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were within reach
of the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over the wounded
man, inquiring, as may be supposed, how he came to be hurt
Our two men, having them all thus in their power, and the first
having loaded his piece again, resolved to let fly both together
among them, and singling out by agreement which to aim at,
they shot together, and killed, or very much wounded, four of
them; the fifth, frighted even to death, though not hurt, fell with
the rest; so that our men, seeing them all fall together, thought
they had killed them all. This belief made our two men come
boldly out from the tree before they had charged their guns again,
which was a wrong step, and they were under some surprise when
they came to the place and found no less than four of the men
alive, and of them two very little hurt, and one not at all: this
obliged them to fall upon them with the stocks of their muskets;
and first they made sure of the runaway savage that had been
the cause of all the mischief, and of another that was hurt in his
knee, and put them out of their pain. Then the man that was
not hurt at all came and kneeled down to them with his two
hands held up, and made piteous moan to them by gestures and
signs for his life that they could understand.
They signified to him to sit down at the foot of a tree thereby;
and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope-twine which he
had by chance in his pocket, tied his feet fast together, and his
hands behind him, and there they left him, and made with what
speed they could after the other two which were gone before,
fearing they, or any more of them, should find the way to their
covered place in the woods, where their wives, and the few goods
they h\d left, lay. They came once in sight of the two men, but
it was at a great distance; however, they had the satisfaction to
see them cross over a valley towards the sea, the quite contrary
way from that which led to their retreat; and being satisfied with
that, they went back to the tree where they left their prisoner, but
he was gone, and the two pieces of rope-yarn with which they had
bound him lay just at the foot of the tree.
They were now in as great a concern as before, not knowing
how near the enemy might be, or in what numbers; so they
4
resolved to go away to the place where their wives were, to see if all
was well there. When they came thither, they found the savages
had been in the wood, and very near the place, but had not found
it; for indeed it was inaccessible, by the trees standing so thick,
unless the persons seeking it had been directed by those that
knew it, which these were not While they were here, they had
the comfort of seven of the Spaniards coming to their assistance:
the other ten men, with their servants and Friday's father, were
gone in a body to defend their bower, and the corn and cattle
that were kept there. With the seven Spaniards came one of the
savages, who, as I said, were their prisoners formerly, and with
them also came the savage whom the Englishmen had left bound
hand and foot at the tree; for it seems they came that way, saw
the slaughter of the seven men, and unbound the eighth, and
brought him along with them.
The two Englishmen were now so encouraged, that they could
not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there; but taking five of
the Spaniards and themselves, with four muskets and a pistol
among them, and two stout quarter-staves, away they went in
quest of the savages. And first they came to the tree where the
men lay that had been killed; but it was easy to see that some
more of the savages had been there, for they had attempted to
carry their dead men away, and had dragged two of them a good
way, but had given it over. From thence they advanced to the
first rising ground, where they had stood and seen their camp
destroyed, and where they had the mortification still to see some
of the smoke. They then resolved to go forward towards their
plantation; but a little before they came thither, coming in sight
of the sea-shore, they plainly saw the savages all embarking again
in their canoes.
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their
improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help them
to rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies. Their three
countrymen, who were not yet noted for having the least inclination
to do anything good, yet, as soon as they heard of it, came and
offered their help and assistance, and did very friendly work for
several days to restore their habitations, and make necessaries for
them; and thus, in a little, they were set upon their legs again.
It was five or six months after this, when, on a sudden, they
were invaded with a most formidable fleet of no less than twenty-
ADVENTURES OF
eight canoes, full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great
clubs, wooden swords, and such like engines of war; and they
brought such numbers with them, that, in short, it put all our
people into the utmost consternation. These new invaders,
leaving their canoes at the east end of the island, came ranging
along the shore directly towards the plantation of the two English-
men, to the number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men
could judge. Our army was but small indeed; but that which
was worse, they had not arms for all their number neither. The
whole account, it seems, stood thus :—first, as to men—
17 Spaniards. 5 Englishmen.
1 Old Friday, or Friday's father.
3 Slaves, taken with the women, who proved very faithful. 3 Other slaves, who lived with the Spaniards.
29
To arm these they had—
11 Muskets.
5 Pistols.
3 Fowling-pieces.
5 Muskets, or fowling-pieces, which were taken by me from
the mutinous seamen whom I reduced.
2 Swords.
3 Old halberts.
29
To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusil, but
they had every one a halbert, or a long staff, like a quarter-staff,
with a great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his
side a hatchet; also every one of our men had hatchets. Two of
the women could not be prevailed upon, but they would come into
the fight, and they had bows and arrows which the Spaniards had
taken from the savages when the first action happened, where the
Indians fought with one another.
The Spaniard governor commanded the whole; and William
Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a most
daring bold fellow, commanded under him. The savages came
forward like lions, and our men, which was the worst of their fate,
had no advantage in their situation, only that Will Atkins, who now
proved a most useful fellow, with six men, was planted just behind
325
a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, with orders to let
the first of them pass by, and then fire into the middle of them;
and as soon as he had fired, to make his retreat round a part of
the wood, and so come in behind the Spaniards where they stood,
having a thicket of trees all before them.
When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every way
in heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let about fifty
of them pass by him; then seeing the rest come in a very thick
throng, he ordered three of his men to fire, having loaded their
muskets with six or seven bullets a-piece, about as big as pistol
bullets. How many they killed or wounded they knew not; but
the consternation and surprise was inexpressible among the savages
who were frighted to the last degree, to hear such a dreadful noise,
and see their men killed, and others hurt, but see nobody that did
it; when, in the middle of their fright, William Atkins and his other
three let fly again among the thickest of them; and, in less than a
minute, the first three, being loaded again, gave them a third volley.
Had William Atkins and his men retired as soon as they had
fired, or had the rest of the body been at hand to have poured in
their shot continually, the savages had been effectually routed; for
the terror that was among them came principally from this, namely,
that they were killed by the gods with thunder and lightning, and
could see nobody that hurt them: but William Atkins, staying to
load again, discovered the cheat, and some of the savages, spying
them, came upon them behind, wounded Atkins himself, and killed
one of his fellow Englishmen with their arrows, as they did after-
wards one Spaniard and one of the Indian slaves who came with
the women. Our men, being thus hard laid at, retreated to a rising
ground in the wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys
upon them, retreated also: for the number of the savages was so
great that, though above fifty of them were killed, and more than
so many wounded, yet they came on in the teeth of our men, fear-
less of danger, and shot their arrows like a cloud.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together
upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, would have
had him march, and charge them all together at once: but the
Spaniard replied, "Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded
men fight,—let them alone till morning; all these wounded men
will be stiff and sore with their wounds, and faint with the loss of
blood, and so we shall have the fewer to engage." The advice
ADVENTURES OF
was good; but Will Atkins replied merrily, "That's true, Seignior,
and so shall I too; and that's the reason I would go on while I am
warm."—"Well, Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, "you have
behaved gallantly, and done your part; we will fight for you, if you
cannot come on: but I think it best to stay till morning." So
they waited.
But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the savages
in great disorder about their dead and wounded men, and a great
hurry and noise among them where they lay, they afterwards re-
solved to fall upon them in the night One of the two Englishmen,
in whose quarter it was where the fight began, led them round
between the woods and the sea-side, westward; and, turning short
south, they came so near where the thickest of them lay, that, be-
fore they were seen or heard, eight of them fired in among them,
and did dreadful execution upon them: in half a minute more eight
others fired after them, pouring in their small shot in such a
quantity that abundance were killed and wounded; and all this
while they were not able to see who hurt them, or which way to fly.
The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and
then divided themselves into three bodies, and resolved to fall in
among them all together. The savages stood altogether, but were
in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting
from three quarters together: they would have fought if they had
seen us, but our men gave them no time, but, running up to them,
fired among them three ways, and then fell in with the butt ends
of their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and hatchets; and
laid about them so well that, in a word, they set up a dismal
screaming and howling, flying to save their lives which way soever
they could. Our men were tired with the execution, and killed,
or mortally wounded, in the two fights, about one hundred and
eighty of them; the rest, being frighted out of their wits, scoured
through the woods and over the hills with all the speed that fear
and nimble feet could help them to do, and they got all together
to the sea-side, where they landed and where their canoes lay.
But it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from the sea-ward,
so that it was impossible for them to put off: their canoes were
most of them driven by the surge of the sea so high upon the shore,
that it required infinite toil to get them off; and some of them
were dashed to pieces against the beach, or against one another.
Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little rest that
night; but having refreshed themselves as well as they could, they
resolved to march to that part of the island where the savages were
fled. When they came in view of the place where the remains of
the savages' army lay, there appeared about one hundred still:
their posture was generally sitting upon the ground, with their
knees up towards their mouth, and the head put between the
hands, leaning down upon the knees. The Spaniard governor
ordered two muskets to be fired without ball, to alarm them: this
he did, that by their countenance he might know what to expect
—namely, whether they were still in heart to fight, or were so
heartily beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged, and so he
might manage accordingly.
This stratagem took; for as soon as the savages heard the first gun
and saw the flash of the second, they started upon their feet in the
greatest consternation imaginable; and, as our men advanced, they
ran screaming and yawling away up the hills into the country.
At first our men had much rather the weather had been calm,
and they had all gone away to sea. But Will Atkins proved the
best counsellor in this case. His advice was, to take the advantage
that offered, and clap in between them and their boats, and so
deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any more to plague
the island. He told them they had better have to do with one
hundred men than with one hundred nations; that, as they must
destroy their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all of
them destroyed themselves. In a word, he showed them the
necessity of it so plainly, that they all came into it: so they went
to work immediately with the boats, and getting some dry wood
together from a dead tree, they tried to set some of them on fire;
but they were so wet, that they would scarce burn. However, the
fire so burned the upper part, that it soon made them unfit for swim-
ming in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw what they were
about, some of them came running out of the woods, and coming as
near as they could to our men, kneeled down, and made pitiful
gestures and strange noises, begging to have their boats spared,
and that they would be gone, and never return thither again
But our men were now satisfied that they had no way to preserve
themselves, or to save their colony, but effectually to prevent any
of these people from ever going home again; so that, letting them
know that they should not have any mercy, they fell to work with
their canoes, and destroyed them every one that the storm had
ADVENTURES OF
not destroyed before: at the sight of which the savages raised a
hideous cry in the woods, which our people heard plain enough,
after which they ran about the island like distracted men.
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consider that,
while they made those people thus desperate, they ought to have
kept good guard at the same time upon their plantations; for
though the Indians did not find their main retreat, yet they found
out my plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all
the fences and planting about it; trod all the corn under foot;
tore up the vines and grapes, being just then almost ripe; and did
our men an inestimable damage.
Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet
they were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and
down; for, as they were too nimble of foot for our men when they
found them single, so our men durst not go about single for fear
of being surrounded with their numbers. The first thing they
concluded, when they saw what their circumstances were, was that
they would, if possible, drive them up to the farther part of the
island, south-east, that if any more savages came on shore, they
might not find one another; then that they would daily hunt and
harass them, and kill as many of them as they could come at, till
they had reduced the number; and if they could at last tame them
and bring them to anything, they would give them corn, and teach
them how to plant, and live upon their daily labour. In order to
this they followed them, and so terrified them with their guns, that
in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an Indian, if he did
not hit him, he would fall down for fear; and so dreadfully frighted
they were, that they kept out of sight farther and farther, till at
last our men, following them, and every day almost killing and
wounding some of them, they kept up in the woods and hollow
places so much that it reduced them to the utmost misery for want
of food; and many were afterwards found dead in the woods
without any hurt, but merely starved to death.
When our men found this, it made their hearts relent, andpity moved
them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was the most generous-
minded man that ever I met with in my life; and he proposed, if
possible, to take one of them alive, and bring him to understand
what they meant, so far as to be able to act as interpreter, and to go
among them and see if they might be brought to some conditions
that might be depended upon, to save their lives, and do us no spoiL
329
It was some time before any of them could be taken; but, being
weak and half-starved, one of them was at last surprised, and made
a prisoner. They brought old Friday to him, who told him how
kind the others would be to them all; that they would not only
save their lives, but would give them a part of the island to live in,
and corn to plant, and bread for their present subsistence, provided
they would give satisfaction that they should keep in their own
bounds, and not come beyond them, to injure or prejudice others.
Old Friday bade the fellow go and talk with the rest of his country-
men, and hear what they said to it, assuring them that if they did
not agree immediately, they should all be destroyed
.
The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number
to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer, upon
which twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well armed, and three
Indian slaves, and old Friday, marched to the place where they
were. The three Indian slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, and some rice boiled up to cakes and dried in the sun, and
three live goats; and they were ordered to go to the side of a hill,
where they sat down, ate the provisions very thankfully, and were
the most faithful fellows to their words that could be thought of;
for, except when they came to beg victuals and directions, they
never came out of their bounds, and there they lived when I came
to the island, and I went to see them.
They had taught them to plant corn, make bread, breed tame
goats, and milk them; they wanted nothing but wives, and they
would soon have been a nation. Our men taught them to make
wooden spades, such as I made for myself, and gave among them
twelve hatchets, and three or four knives; and there they lived, the
most subjected innocent creatures that were ever heard of. After
this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity with respect to the
savages, till I came to revisit them, which was in about two years.
Not but now and then some canoes of savages came on shore for
their triumphal, unnatural feasts; bu as they were of several
nations, and perhaps had never heard of those that came before,
or the reason of it, they did not make any search or inquiry after
their countrymen; and if they had, it would have been very hard
for them to have found them out
The islanders are greatly relieved by the arrival of Crusoe, who furnishes them with
tools of all kinds—The Spaniards recount their adventures among the savages
before they came to the island, and describe their joy at being delivered—Will
Atkins, who had been the ringleader of the English sailors in their evil doings,
having shown a better disposition, the Spaniards take him and his companions
into their confidence—The island is divided into three colonies—The French
priest, whom Crusoe had brought out of the ship relieved by him at sea, pro-
poses certain reforms—Conversion of Will Atkins' Indian wife—The English
sailors are married—A religious conversation—Crusoe leaves the island in a
hopeful condition.
HUS, I think, I have given a full account of all that
happened to my return, at least that was worth
notice. My coming was a particular relief to these
people, because we furnished them with knives,
scissors, spades, shovels, pickaxes, and all things
of that kind which they could want With the help of these tools
they were so very handy, that they came at last to build up their
huts, or houses, very handsomely, raddling, or working it up like
basket-work all the way round, which was a very extraordinary
piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd, but was an exceedingly
good fence, as well against heat as against all sorts of vermin ; and
our men were so taken with it, that they got the wild savages to
come and do the like for them: so that when I came to see the
two Englishmen's colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if they
lived all like bees in a hive; and, as for Will Atkins, who was now
become a very industrious, necessary, and sober fellow, he had made
himself such a tent of basket-work as I believe was never seen.
This fellow showed abundance of ingenuity in several things which
he had no knowledge of: he made himself a forge, with a pair of
wooden bellows to blow the fire; he made himself charcoal for his
work, and he formed out of one of the iron crows a middling good

anvil to hammer upon: in this manner he made many things, but
especially hooks, staples, and spikes, bolts and hinges.
As for religion, I don't know that there was anything of that
kind among them; they pretty often, indeed, put one another in
mind that there was a God, by the very common method of seamen,
namely, swearing by His name: nor were their poor, ignorant,
savage wives, much the better for having been married to Christians,
as we must call them; for as they knew very little of God them-
selves, so they were utterly incapable of entering into any discourse
with their wives about a God, or to talk anything to them con-
cerning religion. The utmost of all the improvement which I can
say the wives had made from them was, that they had taught them
to speak English pretty well; and all the children they had, which
were near twenty in all, were taught to speak English, too, from their
first learning to speak, though they at first spoke it in a very broken
manner, like their mothers. The mothers were all a good sort of
well-governed, quiet, laborious women, modest and decent, helpful
to one another, mighty observant and subject to their masters—I
cannot call them husbands—and wanted nothing but to be well in-
structed in the Christian religion, and to be legally married.
Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and
pretty much of my five runagate Englishmen, I must say something
of the Spaniards, who were the main body of the family, and in
whose story there are some incidents also remarkable enough. I
had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances
when they were among the savages: they told me readily that they
had no instances to give of their application or ingenuity in that
country; that they were a poor, miserable, dejected handful ol
people; that if means had been put into their hands, they had yet
so abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk under the weight
of their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing but starving. One
of them, a grave and very sensible man, told me it was remarkable
that Englishmen had a greater presence of mind in their distress
than any people that he ever met with—that their unhappy nation,
and the Portuguese, were the worst men in the world to struggle
with misfortunes; for, that their first step in dangers, after common
efforts are over, was always to despair—lie down under it and die,
without rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies for escape.
They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven
to; how sometimes they were many days without any food at all, the
ADVENTURES Or
island they were upon being inhabited by a sort of savages that
lived more indolent, and for that reason were less supplied with
the necessaries of life than they had reason to believe others were
in the same part of the world; and yet they found that these
savages were less ravenous and voracious than those who had
better supplies of food.
Then they gave me an account how the savages, whom they
lived among, expected them to go out with them into their wars;
but, being without powder and shot, when they came on the
field of battle, they were in a worse condition than the savages
themselves, for they neither had bows nor arrows, nor could they
use those the savages gave them, so that they could do nothing
but stand still and be wounded with arrows, till they came up to
the teeth of their enemy; till at last they found the way to make
themselves large targets of wood, which they covered with skins
of wild beasts,—and these covered them from the arrows of the
savages; that notwithstanding these, they were sometimes in great
danger, and were once five of them knocked down together with
the clubs of the savages, which was the time when one of them
was taken prisoner, that is to say, the Spaniard whom I had
relieved; that at first they thought he had been killed, but when
afterwards they heard he was taken prisoner, they were under the
greatest grief imaginable, and would willingly have all ventured
their lives to have rescued him.
They described, most affectionately, how they were surprised
with joy at the return of their friend and companion in misery,
and how they were astonished at the sight of the relief I sent
them, and at the appearance of loaves of bread, things they had
not seen since their coming to that miserable place. And, after
all, they would have told me something of the joy they were in
at the sight of a boat and pilots to carry them away to the person
and place from whence all these new comforts came; but it was
impossible to express it by words, for their excessive joy driving
them to unbecoming extravagances, they had no way to describe
them but by telling me that they bordered upon lunacy. All
these things made me more sensible of the relation of these poor
men, and more affected with it
Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them,
I must relate the heads of what I did for these people, and the
condition in which I left them. I entered into a serious discourse
333
with the Spaniard, whom I called governor, about their stay in
the island. I told them I came to establish them there, not to
remove them; and then I let them know that I had brought with
me relief of sundry kinds for them; that I had been at a great
charge to supply them with all things necessary, as well for their
convenience as their defence; and that I had such particular per-
sons with me, as well to increase and recruit their number, as by
the particular and necessary employments which they were bred
to, being artifices, to assist them in those things in which at
present they were to seek. They were all together when I talked
thus to them: and before I delivered to them the stores I had
brought, I asked them, one by one, if they had entirely forgot and
buried the first animosities that had been among them, and could
shake hands with one another, and engage in a strict friendship
and union of interest, so that there might be no more misunder-
standings or jealousies. William Atkins, with abundance of frank-
ness and good humour, said they had met with afflictions enough
to make them all sober, and enemies enough to make them all
friends; that, for his part, he was very willing and desirous of
living on terms of entire friendship and union with them, and
would do anything that lay in his power to convince them of it;
and as for going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither
these twenty years.
The Spaniards said they had indeed at first disarmed and
excluded William Atkins and his two countrymen, for their ill
conduct, but that Atkins had behaved himself so bravely in the
great fight they had with the savages, and on several occasions
since, and had showed himself so faithful to, and concerned for,
the general interest of them all, that they had forgotten all that
was past, and thought he merited as much to be trusted with arms,
and supplied with necessaries, as any of them; and that they had
testified their satisfaction in him, by committing the command
to him, next to the governor himself: and as they had an entire
confidence in him and all his countrymen, they most heartily
embraced the occasion of giving me this assurance, that they
would never have any interest separate from one another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we
appointed the next day to dine altogether; and, indeed, we made
a splendid feast, at which we were very innocently merry: I
brought out my cargo of goods, wherein, that there might be no
ADVENTURES OF
dispute about dividing, I showed them that there was sufficient
for them all . Having distributed these among them, I presented
to them the people I had brought with me, particularly the tailor,
the smith, and the two carpenters, all of them most necessary
people; but, above all, my general artificer, than whom they could
not name anything that was more needful to them: and the
tailor, to show his concern for them, went to work immediately,
and made them every one a shirt the first thing he did; and,
which was still more, he taught the women not only how to sew
and stitch, and use the needle, but made them assist to make the
shirts for their husbands, and for all the rest As for the car-
penters, they took in pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things, and
made them clever convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards,
lockers, shelves, and everything they wanted of that kind.
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave every
man a digging spade, a shovel, and a rake, and to every separate
place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad axe, and a saw; always appointing
that, as often as any were broken, or worn out, they should be
supplied, without grudging, out of the general stores that I left
behind. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissors,
and all sorts of tools and iron-work, they had without tale, as they
required; and, for the use of the smith, I left two tons of un-
wrought iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms which I brought them was
such, even to profusion, that they could not but rejoice at them;
for now they could march, as I used to do, with a musket upon
each shoulder, if there was occasion, and were able to fight a thou-
sand savages, if they had but some little advantages of situation,
which also they could not miss of if they had occasion.
I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was
starved to death, and the maid also: she was a sober, well-educated,
religious young woman, and behaved so inoffensively, that every
one gave her a good word. After awhile, seeing things so well
ordered, and in so fine a way of thriving upon my island, and con-
sidering that they had neither business nor acquaintance in the
East Indies, nor reason for taking so long a voyage, both of them
desired I would give them leave to remain on the island, and be
entered among my family, as they called it I agreed to it readily,
and they had a little plot of ground allotted to them, where they
had three tents or houses set up, surrounded with a basket-work,
335
palisaded like Atkin's, and adjoining to his plantation. And now
the other two Englishmen moved their habitation to the same place,
and so the island was divided into three colonies, and no more;
namely, the Spaniards, with old Friday and the first servants, at
my old habitation under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital
city; and never was there such a little city in a wood, and so hid,
I believe, in any part of the world. The other colony was that
of Will Atkins, where there were four Englishmen I had left there,
with their wives and children; three savages that were slaves; the
widow and children of the Englishman that was killed, and the
young man and the maid; and, by the way, we made a wife of
her also before we went away. There were also the two carpenters
and the tailor, whom I brought with me for them; also the smith,
and my other man, whom I called "Jack-of-all-trades," who was
himself as good almost as twenty men, for he was not only a very
ingenious fellow, but a very merry fellow; and before I went away,
we married him to the honest maid that came with the youth in
the ship, whom I mentioned before.
And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say some-
thing of the French ecclesiastic, that I had brought with me out
of the ship's crew whom I took at sea. It is true, this man was a
Roman; but justice demands of me to give him a due character;
and I must say he was a grave, sober, pious, and most religious
person; exact in his life, extensive in his charity, and exemplary
in almost everything he did. The first hour that I began to con-
verse with him, after he had agreed to go with me to the East
Indies, I found reason to delight exceedingly, in his conversation. He gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of adventures
which had befallen him; and particularly this was very remarkable,
namely, that during the voyage he was now engaged in, he had the
misfortune to be five times shipped and unshipped, and never to go
to the place whither any of the ships he was in were at first designed
.
But I shall not make digressions into other men's stories, which
have no relation to my own. I return to what concerns our affairs
in the island. He came to me one morning and told me, with a
very grave countenance, that he had for two or three days desired
an opportunity of some discourse with me, which he hoped might,
in some measure, correspond with my general design, which was
the prosperity of my new colony, and perhaps might put it, at least
more than he yet thought it was, in the way of God's blessing.
ADVENTURES OF
"There are three things," said he, "which, if I am right, must
stand in the way of God's blessing upon your endeavours here, and
which I should rejoice to see removed. First, you have here four
Englishmen, who have fetched women from among the savages,
and have taken them as their wives, and yet are not married to
them after any stated legal manner, as the laws of God and man
require; and therefore are yet living in adultery. To this, sir,"
says he, "I know you will object, that there was no clergyman or
priest of any kind, or of any profession, to perform the ceremony;
nor any pen and ink, or paper, to write down a contract of marriage,
and have it signed between them. And I know also, sir, what the
Spaniard governor has told you—I mean of the agreement that he
obliged them to make when they took these women, namely, that
they should choose them outby consent andkeep separately to them;
which, by the way, is nothing of a marriage, no agreement with the
women as wives, but only an agreement among themselves, to keep
them from quarrelling. Now, sir," says he, "these men may when
they please, or when occasion presents, abandon these women, dis-
own their children, leave them to perish, and take other women
and marry them whilst these are living." And here he added,
with some warmth, "How, sir, is God honoured in this unlawful
liberty? And how shall a blessing succeed your endeavours in
this place, however good in themselves, and however sincere in
your design, while these men, who at present are your subjects,
under your absolute government and dominion, are allowed by
you to live in open adultery?"
I thought to have gotten off with my young priest by telling him
that all that part was done when I was not here, and they had lived
so many years with them now, that it was past remedy. "Sir,"
says he, "asking your pardon for such freedom, you are right in
this—that it being done in your absence, you could not be charged
with that part of the crime. But I beseech you, flatter not your-
self that you are not therefore under an obligation to do your utter-
most now to put an end to it Let the time past lie on whom it
will, all the guilt for the future will lie entirely upon you. Because
it is certainly in your power now to put an end to it, and in
nobody's power but yours."
I imagined that, by putting an end to it, he meant that I should
part them, and not suffer them to live together any longer; and I
said to him I could not do that by any means, for that it would
337
put the whole island in confusion. He seemed surprised that I
should so far mistake him. "No, sir," said he, "I do not mean
that you should separate them, but legally and effectually marry
them now. And, sir, as my way of marrying may not be so easy
to reconcile them to, though it will be as effectual even by your
own laws, so your way may be as well before God, and as valid
among men—I mean by a written contract signed by both man
and woman, and by all the witnesses present; which all the laws
of Europe would decree to be valid"
I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much sincerity
of zeal, besides the unusual impartiality in his discourse as to his
own party or Church, and such a true warmth for the preserving
people that he had no knowledge of or relation to, from trans-
gressing the laws of God . But recollecting what he had said of
marrying them by a written contract, I told him I granted all that
he had said to be just, and on his part very kind; that I would
discourse with the men upon the point when I came to them, and
I knew no reason why they should scruple to let him marry them
all; which I knew would be granted to be as authentic and valid
in England, as if they were married by one of our own clergymen.
He then said that, notwithstanding these English subjects of mine,
as he called them, had lived with these women for almost seven
years, and had taught them to speak English, and even to read it,
and that they were, as he perceived, women of tolerable under-
standing, and capable of instruction, yet they had not to this hour
taught them anything of the Christian religion; no, not so much
as to know that there was a God or a worship, or in what manner
God was to be served,—or that their own idolatry, and worshipping
they knew not whom, was false and absurd . This, he said, was
an unaccountable neglect, and what God would certainly call them
to an account for: and perhaps at last take the work out of their
hands. He spoke this very affectionately and warmly. "I am
persuaded," says he, "had those men lived in the savage country
whence their wives came, the savages would have taken more pains
to have brought them to be idolaters, and to worship the devil,
than any of these men, so far as I can see, has taken with them to
teach them the knowledge of the true God . Now, sir," said he,
"though I do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we
should be all glad to see the devil's servants and the subjects of
his kingdom taught to know the general principles of the Christian
v
ADVENTURES OF
religion,—that they might at least hear of God, and of a Redeemer,
and of the resurrection, and of a future state—things which we all
believe: they had at least been so much nearer coming into the
bosom of the true Church, than they are now in the public profes-
sion of idolatry and devil-worship."
I could hold no longer; I took him in my arms, and embraced
him with an excess of passion. "How far," said I to him, "have
I been from understanding the most essential part of a Christian,
namely, to love the interest of the Christian Church, and the good
of other men's souls! I scarce have known what belongs to being
a Christian." "Oh, sir, do not say so," replied he; "this thing
is not your fault." "No," said I; "but why did I never lay it to
heart as well as you?" "It is not too late yet," said he; "be not
too forward to condemn yourself." "But what can be done now?"
said I; "you see I am going away." "Will you give me leave,"
said he, "to talk with these poor men about it?" "Yes, with all
my heart," said I, "and I will oblige them to give heed to what
you say, too." "As to that," said he, "we must leave them to the
mercy of Christ; but it is our business to assist them, encourage
them, and instruct them."
Then he went on to say, "It is a maxim, sir, that is, or ought
to be, received among all Christians, of what Church or pretended
Church soever, namely, that Christian knowledge ought to be pro-
pagated by all possible means, and on all possible occasions. It
is on this principle that our Church sends missionaries into Persia,
India, and China; and that our clergy, even of the superior sort,
willingly engage in the most hazardous voyage, and the most
dangerous residence among murderers and barbarians, to teach
them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring them over to
embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have an opportunity
here to have six or seven-and-thirty poor savages brought over
from idolatry to the knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer,
that I wonder how you can pass by such an occasion of doing
good, which is really worth the expense of a man's whole life."
He laid it home upon my conscience, whether the blessing of
saving seven-and-thirty souls were not worth my venturing all I
had in the world for? I was not so sensible of that as he was,
and I returned upon him thus: "Why, sir, it is a valuable thing
indeed to be an instrument in God's hands to convert seven-and-
thirty heathens to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an
339
ecclesiastic, and are given over to that work, so that it seems naturally
to fall into the way of your profession, how is it then that you do
not rather offer yourself to undertake it, than press me to it?"
Upon this he faced about, just before me, as he walked along,
and, putting me to a full stop, made me a very low bow: "I most
heartily thank God, and you, sir," says he, "for giving me so
evident a call to so blessed a work; and if you think yourself
discharged from it, and desire me to undertake it, I will most
readily do it, and think it a happy reward for all the hazards and
difficulties of such a broken, disappointed voyage as I have met
with, that I have dropped at last into so glorious a work . But
since you will honour me with putting me into this work, I have
one humble petition to you besides." "What is that?" said I,
"Why," says he, "it is that you will leave your man Friday with
me, to be my interpreter to them, and to assist me; for without
some help I cannot speak to them, or they to me."
I was sensibly touched at his requesting Friday, because I could
not think of parting with him, and that for many reasons. He had
been the companion of my travels: he was not only faithful to
me, but sincerely affectionate to the last degree; and I had
resolved to do something considerable for him if he outlived me,
as it was probable he would. Then I knew that as I had bred
Friday up to be a Protestant, it would quite confound him to
bring him to embrace another profession; that he would never,
while his eyes were open, believe that his old master was a heretic,
and would be damned; and this might in the end ruin the
poor fellow's principles, and so turn him back again to his first
idolatry. I therefore told him I could not say that I was willing
to part with Friday on any account; that I had promised I would
never put him away, and he had promised and engaged to me that
he would never leave me unless I put him away. He seemed
much concerned at this; for he had no rational access to these
poor people, seeing he did not understand one word of their
language, nor they one word of his. To remove this difficulty,
I told him Friday's father had learned Spanish, which I found he
also understood, and he should serve him for an interpreter. So
he was much better satisfied, and nothing could persuade him
but he would stay to endeavour to convert them. But Providence
gave another and a very happy turn to all this.
I sent for the Englishmen all together; began to talk to them
ADVENTURES OF
of the scandalous life they led, and gave them a full account of
the notice the clergyman had already taken of it; and, arguing
how unchristian and irreligious a life it was, I first asked if
they were married men or bachelors? They soon explained their
condition to me, and showed me that two of them were widowers,
and the other three were single men or bachelors. I asked them
with what conscience they could take these women, and call them
their wives, and have so many children by them, and not be married
lawfully to them? They all gave me the answer that I expected—
namely, that there was nobody to marry them; that they agreed
before the governor to keep them as their wives, and they thought, as
things stood with them, they were as legally married as if they had
been married by a parson, and with all the formalities in the world.
I told them, that no doubt they were married in the sight of
God, and were bound in conscience to keep them as their wives;
but that the laws of men being otherwise, they might pretend they
were not married, and so desert the poor women and children
hereafter; and that unless I was assured of their honest intent, I
could do nothing for them; and that unless they would give some
assurances that they would marry the women, I could not think it
was convenient they should continue together as man and wife.
All this passed as I expected ; and they told me, especially Will
Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the rest, that they loved their
wives as well as if they had been born in their own native country,
and would not leave them on any account whatever. The priest
was not with me at that moment, but was not far off. So, to try
him farther, I told him I had a clergyman with me, and if he was
sincere, I would have him married the next morning, and bade him
consider of it, and talk with the rest He said, as for himself, he
need not consider of it at all, for he was very ready to do it, and
believed they would be all willing also. So we parted: I went
back to my clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk with his
companions. Before I went from their quarter, they all came to
me, and told me they had been considering what I had said; that
they were very glad to hear that I had a clergyman in my company,
and they were willing to give me the satisfaction I desired, and to
be formally married as soon as I pleased, for they were far from
desiring to part from their wives, and that they meant nothing but
what was honest when they chose them. So I appointed them to
meet me the next morning, and that in the meantime they should
341
let their wives know the meaning of the marriage law, and that it
was not only to prevent any scandal, but also to oblige them that
they should not forsake them whatever might happen. The women
were easily made sensible of the meaning of the thing, and were
very well satisfied with it; so they failed not to attend all together
at my apartment next morning, where I brought out my clergyman.
When he came to them, he let them know that I had acquainted
him with their circumstances, and with the present design; that he
was very willing to perform that part of his function, and marry
them as I had desired, but that, before he could do it, he must
take the liberty to talk with them. He told them that, in the sight
of all different men, and in the sense of the laws of society, they
had lived all this while in an open adultery; and that it was true
that nothing but the consenting to marry, or effectually separating
them from one another now, could put an end to it; but there was
a difficulty in it too, with respect to the laws of Christian matrimony,
which he was not fully satisfied about, namely, that of marrying
one that is a professed Christian to a savage, an idolater, and a
heathen, one that is not baptized ; and yet that he did not see that
there was time left for it to endeavour to persuade the women to
be baptized, or to profess the name of Christ, whom they had, he
doubted, heard nothing of, and without which they could not be
baptized. He told them he doubted they were but indifferent
Christians themselves; that they had but little knowledge of God or
His ways, and therefore he could not expect that they had said much
to their wives on that head yet; but unless they would promise
him to use their endeavours with their wives to persuade them to
become Christians, and would, as well as they could, instruct them
in the knowledge and belief of God that made them, and to worship
Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he could not marry them.
They heard all this very attentively, and they told me it was
very true what the gentleman had said, that they were but very
indifferent Christians themselves, and that they had never talked
to their wives about religion. "Oh, sir," says Will Atkins, "how
should we teach them religion? Why, we know nothing our-
selves; and besides, sir," said he, "should we go to talk to them
of God, and Jesus Christ, and heaven, and hell, it would be to
make them laugh at us, and ask us what we believe ourselves;
and if we should tell them we believe all the things we speak of
to them, such as of good people going to heaven, and wicked
ADVENTURES OF
people to the devil, they would ask us where we intended to go
ourselves, who believe all this, and yet are such wicked fellows,
as we indeed are: why, sir," said Will, "'tis enough to give them
a surfeit of religion, at first hearing: folks must have some religion
themselves, before they pretend to teach other people." "Why,
truly, Atkins," said I, "I am afraid thou speakest too much truth;"
and with that I let the clergyman know what Atkins had said, for
he was impatient to know. "Oh!" said the priest, "tell him
there is one thing will make him the best minister in the world to
his wife, and that is repentance, for none teach repentance like
true penitents. He wants nothing but to repent, and then he will
be so much the better qualified to instruct his wife: he will then
be able to tell her that there is not only a God, and that He is the
just rewarder of good and evil, but that He is a merciful Being,
and, with infinite goodness and long-suffering, forbears to punish
those that offend—waiting to be gracious, and willing not the death
of a sinner, but rather that he should return and live; that He often
suffers wicked men to go on a long time, and even reserves damna-
tion to the general day of retribution; that it is a clear evidence of
God and of a future state, that righteous men receive not their
reward, or wicked men their punishment, till they come into another
world; and this will lead him to teach his wife the doctrine of the
resurrection, and of the last judgment: let him but repent for him-
self, he will be an excellent preacher of repentance to his wife.
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all the
while, and who, we could easily perceive, was more than ordinarily
affected with it "I knew all this, master," says he, "and a great
deal more; but I han't the impudence to talk thus to my wife,
when God and my own conscience knows, and my wife will be an
undeniable evidence against me, that I have lived as if I had never
heard of God, or a future state, or anything about it: and to talk
of my repenting, alas!" (and with that he fetched a deep sigh, and
I could see that tears stood in his eyes) "'tis past all that with me."
I told the clergyman word for word what he said . The zealous,
affectionate man, could not refrain tears also: but, recovering him-
self, he said to me, "Ask him but one question: Is he easy that it
is too late, or is he troubled, and wishes it were not so?" I put
the question fairly to Atkins; and he answered with a great deal
of passion, "How could any man be easy in a condition that cer-
tainly must end in eternal destruction"
343
The clergyman shook his head, with a great concern in his face,
when I told him all this; but turning quick to me upon it, said,
"If that be his case, you may assure him it is not too late; Christ
will give him repentance, and we that are Christ's servants are com-
manded to preach mercy at all times, in the name of Jesus Christ, to
all those that sincerely repent; so that 'tis never too late to repent."
I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnestness;
but it seemed as if he turned off the discourse to the rest; for he
said to me he would go and have some talk with his wife: so he
went out a while, and we talked to the rest I perceived they were
all stupidly ignorant as to matters of religion—much as I was when
I went rambling away from my father, and yet that there were none
of them backward to hear what had been said; and all of them
seriously promised that they would talk with their wives about it,
and do their endeavour to persuade them to turn Christians.
Upon this discourse, and the men promising to persuade their wives to embrace Christianity, he married the three couple; but
Will Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. After this, the
clergyman waiting a while, was curious to know where Atkins was
gone; and turning to me, says, "I entreat you, sir, let us walk out
here and look; I daresay we shall find this poor man somewhere
or other talking seriously with his wife, and teaching her already
something of religion." I began to be of the same mind; so we
went out together, and I carried him a way which none knew but
myself, and where the trees were so thick set, as that it was not
easy to see through the thicket of leaves, and far harder to see in
than to see out; when, coming to the edge of the wood, I saw
Atkins, and his tawny savage wife, sitting under the shade of a
bush, very eager in discourse. I stopped short till my clergyman
came up to me, and then, having shown him where they were, we
stood and looked very steadily at them a good while. We observed
him very earnest with her, pointing up to the sun, and to every
quarter of the heavens; then down to the earth, then out to the sea;
then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the trees. "Now,"
says my clergyman, "you see my words are made good; the man
preaches to her—mark him—now he is telling her that our God
has made him, and her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the
woods, the trees, &c."—" I believe he is," said I. Immediately we
perceived Will Atkins start up upon his feet, fall down upon his
knees, and lift up both his hands; we supposed he said something,
ADVENTURES OF
but we could not hear him—it was too far off for that; he did not
continue kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down again
by his wife, and talks to her again. We perceived then the woman
very attentive, but whether she said anything or no, we could not
tell. While the poor fellow was upon his knees, I could see the
tears run plentifully down my clergyman's cheeks, and I could hardly
forbear myself; but it was a great affliction to us both that we were
not near enough to hear anything that passed between them.
Well, however, we could come no nearer, for fear of disturbing
them: so we resolved to see an end of this piece of still conversa-
tion, and it spoke loud enough to us without the help of voice.
He sat down again, as I have said, close by her, and talked again
earnestly to her, and two or three times we could see him embrace
her passionately; another time we saw him take out his handker-
chief and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her again, with a kind of
transport very unusual; and after several of these things, we saw
him on a sudden jump up again and lend her his hand to help her
up, when immediately leading her by the hand a step or two, they
both kneeled down together, and continued so about two minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, "St Paul,
St Paul, behold, he prayeth!" This continued about half a quarter
of an hour, and then they walked away too, so that we could see no
more of them in that situation. As Will Atkins and his wife were
gone, our business there was over; so we went back our own way;
and when we came back, we found them waiting to be called in.
I then discovered that Atkins—whose father, it turned out, was a
clergyman—had been himself affected by the words of the priest,
and that he had brought his wife to embrace the knowledge of
Christ and of redemption by Him, with joy, and faith, and with
an affection and a surprising degree of understanding scarce to be
imagined, much less to be expressed; and, at her own request,
she was baptized . As soon as this was over, the priest married
them: and after the marriage was over, he turned himself to Will
Atkins, and, in a very affectionate manner, exhorted him not only
to persevere in that good disposition he was in, but to support the
convictions that were upon him, by a resolution to reform his life;
told him it was in vain to say he repented, if he did not forsake
his crimes; represented to him how God had honoured him with
being the instrument of bringing his wife to the knowledge of the
Christian religion; and that he should be careful he did not dis-
MARIAGE D'ATKINS DEVANT ROBINSON
345
honour the grace of God; and that if he did, he would see the
heathen a better Christian than himself—the savage converted,
and the instrument cast away.
But my clergyman had not done yet; his thoughts hung con-
tinually upon the conversion of the thirty-seven savages, and fain
he would have stayed upon the island to have undertaken it: but I
convinced him, first, that his undertaking was impracticable in
itself; and secondly, that perhaps I could put it into a way of
being done in his absence, to his satisfaction; of which by and by.
Having thus brought the affairs of the island to a narrow com-
pass, I was preparing to go on board the ship, when the young
man whom I had taken out of the famished ship's company came
to me, and told me he understood I had a clergyman with me,
and that I had caused the Englishmen to be married to the savages
whom they called wives; that he had a match too, which he desired
might be finished before I went, between two Christians, which he
hoped would not be disagreeable to me. I was impatient to know
who was the person to be married; upon which he told me it was
my "Jack-of-all-trades," and his maid Susan. I was most agree-
ably surprised when he named the match; for indeed I had thought
it very suitable. The character of the man I have given you already;
and as for the maid, she was a very honest, modest, sober, and reli-
gious woman; had a good share of sense; was agreeable in her per-
son; spoke very handsomely, and to the purpose; was handy and
house-wifely, an excellent manager, and fit, indeed, to have been
governess to the whole island. We married them the same day.
It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my friend,
the clergyman, that the work of converting the savages might per-
haps be set on foot in his absence to his satisfaction, and I told
him that now I thought it was put in a fair way; for the savages,
being thus divided among the Christians, if they would but every
one of them do their part with those which came under their hands,
I hoped it might have a very good effect This they engaged to
do. When I came to Will Atkins's house, I found the young
woman I have mentioned above and Atkins's wife were become
intimates; and this prudent and religious young woman had per-
fected the work Will Atkins had begun; and though it was not
above four days after what I have related, yet the new baptized
savage woman was made such a Christian, as I have seldom heard
of any like her in all my observation or conversation in the world.
I took a Bible in my pocket, and when I came to the tent, or
house, I found the young woman and Atkins's baptized wife had
been discoursing of religion together (for William Atkins told it me
with a great deal of joy). I asked if they were together now? and
he said, Yes; so I went into the house, and he with me, and we
found them together, very earnest in discourse.
We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had a book
among them, though I did not ask, but I put my hand in my
pocket, and pulled out my Bible. "Here," said I to Atkins, "I
have brought you an assistant that, perhaps, you had not before."
The man was so confounded that he was not able to speak for
some time; but, recovering himself, he takes it with both his
hands, and, turning to his wife, "Here, my dear," says he, "did
not I tell you our God, though He lives above, could hear what we
said? Here is the book I prayed for, when you and I kneeled
down under the bush: now God has heard us, and sent it." When
he had said thus, the man fell in such transports of passionate joy
that, between the joy of having it and giving God thanks for it, the
tears ran down his face like a child that was crying. The woman
was surprised, and she firmly believed that God had sent the book
upon her husband's petition. It is true that providentially it was
so, but I believe it would have been no difficult matter at that
time to have persuaded the poor woman that an express messenger
came from heaven to bring that individual book.
But I return to my disposition of things among the people . I
did not think fit to let them know anything of the sloop I had
framed, and which I thought of setting up among them; for had
I set up the sloop, and left it among them, they would, upon very
light disgust, have separated, and gone away from one another; or
perhaps have turned pirates, and so made the island a den of thieves,
instead of a plantation of sober and religious people, as I intended
it to be; nor did I leave the two pieces of brass cannon that I had
on board, or the two quarter-deck guns, for the same reason: I
thought they had enough to qualify them for a defensive war, against
any that should invade them; but I was not to set them up for an
offensive war, or to encourage them to go abroad to attack others.
I reserved the sloop and the guns for their service another way.
I have now done with the island. I left them all in good circum-
stances, and in a flourishing condition, and went on board my ship
again the 5th day of May, having been five-and-twenty days among
them.
Crusoe encounters a fleet of Indian canoes at sea—The savages attack his vessel—
Friday is killed—Crusoe arrives at Brazil, where he gets his sloop set up, and
despatches it, laden with live-stock, to his island—Sets sail for the East Indies—
Touches at Madagascar, where they are well received by the natives—The
crime of one of the sailors is avenged by his death, whereupon the crew com-
mence a general massacre, which Crusoe vainly attempts to stay—On resuming
the voyage, he reproaches the sailors, who at length mutiny, and leave him on
shore at Bengal.

HE next day, giving them a salute of five guns at
parting, we set sail, and arrived at the bay of All
Saints, in the Brazils, in about twenty-two days; meet-
ing nothing remarkable in our passage. But the
third day, towards evening, the sea smooth, and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered towards the land
with something very black, not being able to discover what it was;
but after some time, our chief mate going up the main shrouds a
little way, and looking at them by the perspective, cried out, it was
an army. I could not imagine what he meant by an army, and
spoke a little hastily, calling the fellow a fool, or some such word.
"Nay, sir," says he, "don't be angry, for it is an army and a fleet
too; for I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see
them paddle along, and they are coming towards us, too, apace,
and full of men."
I was a little surprised at this, and so, indeed, was my nephew,
the captain; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in the
island, that he could not tell what to think of it, but said two or
three times we should all be devoured. I must confess, considering
we were becalmed, and the current set strong towards the shore,
I liked it the worse. However, I bade him not to be afraid, but
bring the ship to an anchor, as soon as we came so near as to know
that we must engage them.
ADVENTURES OF
The weather continued calm and they came on apace towards
us; so I gave orders to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails,
—get the boats out, and fasten them, one close by the head, and
the other by the stern, and man them both well, and wait the issue
in that posture: this I did that the men in the boats might be ready,
with sheet and buckets, to put out any fire these savages might
endeavour to fix upon the outside of the ship. In this posture we
lay by for them, and in a little while they came up with us: but
never was such a horrid sight seen by Christians. My mate was
much mistaken in his calculation of their number; the most we
could make of them, when they came up, being about one hundred
and twenty-six canoes, and some of them had sixteen or seventeen
men in them, some more, and the least six or seven.
When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with
wonder and astonishment They came boldly up, however, veiy near to us, and seemed to go about to row round us; but we called
to our men in the boats not to let them come too near them. This
very order brought us to an engagement with them without our
designing it; for five or six of their large canoes came so near our
long-boat, that our men beckoned with their hands to them to keep
back, which they understood very well, and went back; but at
their retreat about five hundred arrows came on board us from
those boats, and one of our men in the long-boat was very much
wounded . I called to them not to fire by any means; but we
handed down some deal boards into the boat, and the carpenter
presently set up a kind of a fence, like waist boards, to cover them
from the arrows of the savages, if they should shoot again.
About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a body astern
of us, and I easily found they were some of my old friends, the
same sort of savages that I had been used to engage with: in a
little time more they rowed somewhat farther out to sea, till they
came directly broadside with us, and then rowed down straight
upon us, till they came so near, that they could hear us speak.
Upon this, I ordered all my men to keep close, and make all our
guns ready; but being so near as to be within hearing, I made
Friday go out upon the deck, and call out aloud to them in his
language, to know what they meant, which accordingly he did
.
Whether they understood him or not, that I know not; but imme-
diately Friday cried out they were going to shoot, and unhappily for
him, they let fly about three hundred of their arrows, and to my inex-
pressible grief killed poor Friday, no other man being in their sight
The poor fellow was shot with no less than three arrows, and about
three more fell very nigh him; such unlucky marksmen they were!
I was so enraged at the loss of my old servant, the companion of
all my sorrows and solitudes, that I immediately ordered five guns to
be loaded with small shot, and four with great, and gave them such
a broadside as they had never had in their lives before, to be sure.
They were not above half a cable's length off when we fired. I
can neither tell how many we killed, nor how many we wounded;
but sure such a fright and hurry never was seen among such a
multitude; there were thirteen or fourteen of their canoes split
and overset in all, and the men all set a-swimming; the rest, frighted
out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could, taking but
little care to save those whose boats were split or spoiled with our
shot; so I suppose that they were many of them lost Our men
took up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour after
they were all gone; nor did we ever see the rest any more, for a
breeze of wind springing up the same evening, we weighed and
set sail for the Brazils.
Our prisoner was so sullen that he would neither eat nor speak;
and we all fancied he would starve himself to death. But I took
a way to cure him; for I made them take him and turn him into
the longboat, and make him believe they would toss him into the
sea again, and so leave him where they found him, if he would
not speak: nor would that do, but they really did throw him into
the sea, and came away from him; and then he followed them,
for he swam like a cork, and called to them in his tongue, though
they knew not one word of what he said . However, at last they
took him in again, and then he began to be more tractable. In
time our men taught him some English, and he told us that they
were going with their kings to fight a great battle. When he said
kings, we asked him how many kings? He said, "There were
five nation, and that they all joined to go against two nation."
We asked him, "What made them come up to us?" He said,
"To makee te great wonder look." Where it is to be observed,
that all those natives, as also those of Africa, when they learn Eng-
lish, they also add two ^s at the end of the words where we use
one, and place the accent upon the last of them—as makee, takee,
and the like; and we could not break them off it,—nay I could
hardly make Friday leave it off, though at last he did.
And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my
last leave of him—poor honest Friday! We buried him with all
decency and solemnity possible, by putting him into a coffin, and
throwing him into the sea; and I caused them to fire eleven guns
for him: and so ended the life of the most grateful, faithful, honest,
and most affectionate servant that ever man had.
We now went away with a fair wind for Brazil, and in about
twelve days' time, we made land in the latitude of five degrees
south of the Line, being the north-eastermost land of all that part
of America. We kept on south-by-east, in sight of the shore, four
days, when we made the Cape St Augustine, and in three days
came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, the old place of my
deliverance, from whence came both my good and evil fate.
It was with great difficulty that we were admitted to hold the
least correspondence on shore. Not my partner himself, who was
alive, and made a great figure among them, not my two merchant
trustees, nor the fame of my wonderful preservation in the island,
could obtain me that favour; but my partner, remembering that I
had given five hundred moidores to the prior of the monastery of
the Augustines, and three hundred and seventy-two to the poor,
went to the monastery, and obliged the prior that then was to go
to the governor and beg leave for me presently, with the captain,
and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no
more,—and this upon condition absolutely capitulated for, that
we should not offer to land any goods out of the ship, or to carry
any person away without licence.
They were so strict with us as to landing any goods, that it was
with extreme difficulty that I got on shore three bales of English
goods, such as fine broad-cloths, stuffs, and some linen, which I
had brought for a present to my partner. He was a very generous,
broad-hearted man, though, like me, he came from little at first;
and though he knew not that I had the least design of giving him
anything, he sent me on board a present of fresh provisions, wine,
and sweetmeats, worth above thirty moidores, including some
tobacco, and three or four fine medals in gold . But I was even
with him in my present, which, as I have said, consisted of fine
broad-cloths, English stuffs, lace, and fine Hollands. Also, I
delivered him about the value of one hundred pounds sterling, in
the same goods, for other uses; and I obliged him to set up the
sloop which I had brought with me from England, as I have said,
for the use of my colony, in order to send the refreshments I
intended to my plantation.
Accordingly he got hands and finished the sloop in a very few
days, for she was already framed; and I gave the master of her
such instructions as he could not miss the place; nor did he miss
it, as I had an account from my partner afterwards. I got him
soon loaded with the small cargo I had sent them; and one of
our seamen, that had been on shore with me there, offered to go
with the sloop, and settle there, upon my letter to the governor
Spaniard to allot him a sufficient quantity of land for a plantation,
and giving him some clothes, and tools for his planting work,
which he said he understood, having been an old planter in
Maryland, and a buccaneer into the bargain. I encouraged the
fellow by granting all he desired; and, as an addition, I gave him
the savage whom we had taken prisoner of war to be his slave,
and ordered the governor Spaniard to give him his share of every-
thing he wanted, with the rest
When we came to fit this man out, my old partner told me
there was a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter of his
acquaintance, who had fallen into the displeasure of the church, and
had been obliged to conceal himself for fear of the Inquisition;
that he would be very glad of such an opportunity to make his
escape, with his wife and two daughters; and if I would let them
go to the island, and allot them a plantation, he would give them
a small stock to begin with,—for the officers of the Inquisition
had seized all his effects and estate. I granted this presently, and
joined my Englishman with them; and we concealed the man and
his wife and daughters on board our ship till the sloop put out to
go to sea; and then (having put all their goods on board some
time before), we put them on board the sloop after she was got
out of the bay.
Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new partner; and
their stock, indeed, was much alike rich in tools and in prepara-
tions for a farm: but nothing to begin with, but as above. How-
ever, they carried over with them (which was worth all the rest)
some materials for planting sugar-canes, with some plants of canes,
which he (I mean the Portugal man) understood very well. Among
the rest of the supplies for my tenants in the island, I sent them, by
this sloop, three milch cows and five calves, about twenty-two hogs
among them, three sows big with pig, and two mares and a horse.
ADVENTURES OF
For my Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged three
Portugal women to go; and recommended it to them to marry
them, and use them kindly. I could have procured more women,
but I remembered that the poor persecuted man had two daughters,
and there were but five of the Spaniards that wanted; the rest
had wives of their own, though in another country.
All this cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, very
welcome to my old inhabitants, who were now (with this addition)
between sixty and seventy people, besides little children, of which
there were a great many. I found letters at London from them
all, by way of Lisbon, when I came back to England, being sent
back to the Brazils by this sloop.
I have now done with my island, and all manner of discourse
about it; and whoever reads the rest of my memorandums, would
do well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read
only of the follies of an old man, not warned by his own harms,
much less by those of other men, to beware of the like; not cooled
by almost forty years' misery and disappointments; not satisfied
with prosperity beyond expectations; not made cautious by afflic-
tion and distress beyond imitation.
I had no more business to go to the East Indies, than a man
at full liberty, and having committed no crime, has to go to the
turnkey at Newgate, and desire him to lock him up among the
prisoners there, and starve him. Had I taken a small vessel from
England, and gone directly to the island—had I loaded her, as I
did the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the plantation,
and for my people—took a patent for the government there, to
have secured my property, in subjection only to that of England,
which, to be sure, I might have obtained,—had I done this, and
stayed there myself, I had at least acted like a man of common
sense: but I was possessed with a wandering spirit, scorned all
advantages, pleased myself with being the patron of these people
I had placed there, and doing for them in a kind of haughty,
majestic way, like an old patriarchal monarch. But I never so
much as pretended to plant in the name of any government or
nation, or to acknowledge any prince, or to call my people subjects
to any one nation more than another,—nay, I never so much as
gave the place a name, but left it as I found it, belonging to no
man, and the people under no discipline or government but my
own. I rambled from them and came thither no more: the lust
3S3
letters I had from any of them were by my partner's means, who
sent me word, though I had not the letter till five years after it
was written, that they went on but poorly, were malcontent with
their long stay there—that Will Atkins was dead—that five of the
Spaniards were come away—and that they begged of him to write
to me to think of the promise I had made to fetch them away,
that they might see their own country again before they died.
But I was gone a wild-goose chase, indeed, and they who will
have any more of me, must be content to follow me through a
new variety of follies, hardships, and wild adventures.
But it is no time now to enlarge any farther upon the reason or
absurdity of my own conduct I was embarked for the voyage,
and the voyage I went I shall only add here, that my honest
and truly pious clergyman left me here: a ship being ready to go
to Lisbon, he asked me leave to go thither; being still, as he
observed, bound never to finish any voyage he began. Had I
gone with him, I had never had so many things to be thankful
for, and you had never heard of the second part of the Travels
and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe; so I must leave here the
fruitless exclaiming at myself, and go on with my voyage.
From the Brazils, we made directly away over the Atlantic Sea
to the Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerably good voyage, our
course generally south-east; now and then a storm, and some con-
trary winds. But my disasters at sea were at an end—my future
rubs and cross events were to befal me on shore. We made no
stay at the Cape longer than was needful to take in fresh water,
but made the best of our way for the coast of Coromandel . We
touched first at the island of Madagascar, where we fared very
well with them a while. It happened one evening when we went
on shore, that a greater number of their people came down than
usual, but all was very friendly and civil, and all was quiet; and
we made us a little tent, or hut, of some boughs of trees, and lay
on shore all that night I was not so well satisfied to lie on shore
as the rest; and the boat lying at an anchor about a stone's cast
from the land, with two men in her to take care of her, I made
one of them come on shore, and, getting some boughs of trees to
cover us also in the boat, I spread the sail on the bottom of the
boat, and lay on board under the cover of the branches of the
trees, all night About two o'clock in the morning, we heard one
of our men make a terrible noise on the shore, calling out for
z
ADVENTURES OF
God's sake to bring the boat in, and come and help them, for they
were all like to be murdered; at the same time I heard the firing
of five muskets, which was the number of the guns they had, and
that three times over. Rousing immediately from sleep with the
noise, I caused the boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with three
fusils we had on board, to land and assist our mea Our men
were but nine in all, and only five had fusils; the rest, indeed,
had pistols and swords, but they were of small use to them. We
took up seven of our men, three of them being very ill wounded;
and while we stood in the boat to take our men in, we were in as
much danger as they were in on shore; for the people poured
their arrows in upon us so thick, that we were fain to barricade
the side of the boat up with the benches, and two or three loose
boards which we had in the boat
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh our
anchor, or set up our sail, because we must needs stand up in the
boat, and they were as sure to hit us as we were to hit a bird in a
tree with small shot We made signals of distress to the ship, and
my nephew, the captain, hearing our firing, and by glasses per-
ceiving the posture we lay in, and that we fired towards the shore,
pretty well understood us; and, weighing anchor with all speed,
he stood as near the shore as he durst with the ship, and then sent
another boat with ten hands in her to assist us. One of the men,
taking the end of a tow line in his hand, swam on board us, and
made the line fast to the boat, upon which we slipt our little cable,
and leaving our anchor behind, they towed us out of the reach of
the arrows. As soon as we were got from between the ship and
the shore, that she could lay her side to the shore, we ran along
just by them, and we poured in a broadside among them, loaded
with pieces of iron and lead, small bullets, and such stuff, besides
the great shot, which made a terrible havoc among them.
When we were got on board, our supercargo, who had been
often in those parts, said he was sure the inhabitants would not
have touched us if we had not done something to provoke them
to it. At length it came out, namely, that an old woman, who
had come to sell us some milk, had brought it within our poles,
with a young woman with her, who also brought some roots or
herbs; and while the old woman was selling us the milk, one of
our men offered some rudeness to the girl that was with her, at
which the old woman made a great noise. However, the seaman
355
would not quit his prize, but carried her out of the old woman's
sight among the trees, it being almost dark. The old woman went
away without her, and, as we suppose, made an outcry among
the people she came from,—who, upon notice, raised this great
army upon us in three or four hours; and it was great odds but
we had been all destroyed.
One of our men was killed with a lance that was thrown at him
just at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the tent we
had made; the rest came off free, all but the fellow who was the
occasion of all the mischief, who paid dear enough for his black
mistress. We could not hear what became of him a great while:
we lay upon the shore two days after, though the wind presented,
and made signals for him; made our boat sail up shore and down
shore several leagues, but in vain.
I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on shore
once more. It was the third night after the action, that I had a
great mind to learn, if I could by any means, what mischief we
had done, and how the game stood on the Indian side. We took
with us twenty stout fellows as any in the ship, besides the super-
cargo, and myself; and we landed two hours before midnight, at
the same place where the Indians stood drawn up the evening
before. We divided our men into two companies, and we marched
up, one body at a distance from the other, to the field of battle.
At first we could see nothing, it being very dark; but by and by
our boatswain, that led the first party, stumbled and fell over a
dead body. Here we concluded to halt till the moon began to
rise, and then we could easily discern the havoc we had made
among them. We told two-and-thirty bodies upon the ground,
whereof two were not quite dead. When we had made, as I
thought, a full discovery of all we could come at the knowledge
of, I was for going on board again; but the boatswain and his
party sent me word, that they were resolved to make a visit to the
Indian town, where it might be they might find Thomas Jeffrys
there—that was the man's name we had lost. So away they went,
and though the attempt was desperate, and such as none but
madmen would have gone about, yet, to give them their due, they
went about it warily as well as boldly. Their chief design was
plunder; but a circumstance, which none of them'were aware of,
set them on fire with revenge. When they came to the few Indian
houses, which they thought had been the town, they were under
ADVENTURES OF
a great disappointment; for there were not above twelve or thirteen
houses. However, they resolved to leave those houses, and look
for the town as well as they could. They went on a little way,
and found a cow tied to a tree, and they untied her, and the cow
went on before them directly to the town, which consisted of above
two hundred houses, or huts. Here they found all profoundly
secure as sleep and a country that had never seen an enemy of
that kind could make them. Upon this, they resolved to divide
themselves into three bodies, and to set three houses on fire in
three parts of the town, and as the men came out, to seize them
and bind them. While they were animating one another to the
work, three of them that were a little before the rest, called out
aloud, and told them they had found Thomas Jeffrys; they all ran
up to the place, and so it was indeed, for there they found the poor
fellow hanged up naked by one arm, and his throat cut. There
was an Indian house just by the tree, where they found sixteen or
seventeen of the principal Indians. The sight of their poor mangled
comrade so enraged them, that they swore to one another they
would be revenged, and to work they went immediately. In a
quarter of an hour they set the town on fire in four or five places,
and as soon as the fire began to blaze, the poor frighted creatures
began to rush out to save their lives, but met with their fate in
the attempt.
My nephew, the captain, who was roused by his men, seeing
such a fire, was very uneasy, not knowing what the matter was.
A thousand thoughts oppressed his mind concerning me and the
supercargo, what should become of us; and at last he takes another
boat, and with thirteen men and himself, comes on shore to me.
He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the boat with
no more than two men, and he was impatient to know what was
doing, for the noise continued, and the flame increased. In a
word, the captain told me he would go and help his men, let what
would come, and so away went he. Nor was I any more able to
stay behind; so, in short, the captain ordered two men to row
back the pinnace, and fetch twelve men more from the ship, leav-
ing the long boat at an anchor; and that when they came back,
six men should keep the two boats, and six more come after us,
so that he left only sixteen men in the ship.
Being now on the march, we felt little of the ground we trod
on; and, being guided by the fire, we kept no path, but went
3S7
directly to the place of the flame. If the noise of the guns was
surprising to us before, the cries of the poor people were now quite
of another nature, and filled us with horror. However, we went
on, and at length came to the town, though there was no entering
the streets of it for the fire. The first object that we met with was
the ruins of a hut, or house; and just before it, lay four men and
three women killed; and, as we thought, one or two more lay in
the heap among the fire. In short, these were such instances of
a rage altogether barbarous, and of a fury something beyond what
was human, that we thought it impossible our men could be guilty
of it. But this was not all; we saw the fire increased forward, and
the cry went on just as the fire went on, so that we were in the
utmost confusion. We advanced a little way farther, and beheld,
to our astonishment, three women naked, crying in a most dreadful
manner, and flying as if they had indeed had wings, and after them
sixteen or seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and conster-
nation, with three of our English butchers—for I can call them no
better—in the rear, who, when they could overtake them, fired in
among them, and one that was killed by their shot fell down in
our sight. When the rest saw us, believing us to be their enemies,
and that we would murder them as well as those that pursued
them, they set up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women,
and two of them fell down, as if already dead, with the fright.
My very soul shrank within me, and my blood ran chill in my
veins, when I saw this; and I believe had the three English sailors
that pursued them come on, I had made our men kill them all.
However, we took some ways to let the poor flying creatures know
that we would not hurt them, and immediately they came up to
us, and kneeling down, with their hands lifted up, made piteous
lamentations to us to save them, which we let them know we would
do: whereupon they kept all together in a huddle close behind us
for protection. I left my men drawn up together—charging them
to hurt nobody, but if possible to get at some of our people and
see what devil it was possessed them, and what they intended to
do; and, in a word, to command them off—and went among those
flying people, taking only two of our men with me. And there
was indeed a piteous spectacle among them: some of them had
their feet terribly burnt with trampling and running through the
fire, others their hands burnt; one of the women had fallen down
in the fire, and was almost burnt to death before she could get
ADVENTURES OF
out again; two or three of the men had cuts in their backs and
thighs, from our men pursuing, and another was shot through the
body, and died while I was there.
I would fain have learnt what the occasion of all this was, but
I could not understand one word they said, though by signs I per-
ceived that some of them knew not what was the occasion them-
selves. I went back to my own men: I told them my resolution,
and commanded them to follow me; when, in the very moment,
came four of our men, with the boatswain at their head, covered
with blood and dust, when our men hallooed to them as loud as
they could halloo, and with much ado one of them made them
hear. As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo, like a
shout of triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come.
"Captain," says he, "noble captain, I am glad you are come; we
have not half done yet I Villains! hell-hound dogs! I will kill
as many of them as poor Tom has hairs upon his head . We have
sworn to spare none of them; we will root out the very name of
them from the earth." Raising my voice, that I might silence him
a little, "Barbarous dog!" said I, "what are you doing? I won't
have one creature touched more upon pain of death. I charge
you upon your life to stop your hands, and stand still here, or you
are a dead man this minute."
"Why, sir," says he, "do you know what you do, or what they
have done? If you want a reason for what we have done, come
hither;" and with that he showed me the poor fellow hanging
upon a tree with his throat cut.
I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time should
have been forward enough; but I thought they had carried their
rage too far, and thought of Jacob's words to his sons Simeon and
Levi, "Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath,
for it was cruel." But I had now a new task upon my hands, for,
when the men I carried with me saw the sight as I had done, I
had as much to do to restrain them as I should have had with the
others; nay, my nephew himself fell in with them, and told me,
in their hearing, that he was only concerned for fear of the men
being overpowered. Upon these words away ran eight of my men
with the boatswain and his crew, to complete their bloody work;
and I, seeing it quite out of my power to restrain them, came away
pensive and sad, for I could not bear the sight
I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and two
359
men, and with these I walked back to the boats. Immediately I
took the pinnace and went aboard, and sent her back to assist the
men in what might happen. By the time the men got to the shore
again with the pinnace, our men began to appear; they came
dropping in some and some, not in two bodies, and in form, as
they went out, but all in heaps, straggling here and there in such
a manner that a small force of resolute men might have cut them
all off. But the dread of them was upon the whole country. The
people were amazed and surprised, and so frighted, that I believe a
hundred of them would have fled at the sight of but five of our men.
I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and indeed with
all the men, in my mind, but with him in particular, as prompting
rather than cooling the rage of his men in so bloody and cruel an
enterprise. The next day we set sail. I always, after that time,
told our men God would blast the voyage, for I looked upon the
blood they shed that night to be murder in them. The boatswain
defended this quarrel when we were afterwards on board. He
said it was true that we seemed to break the truce, but really had
not, and that the war was begun the night before by the natives
themselves, who had shot at us, and killed one of our men without
any just provocation; so that, as we were in a capacity to fight
them, we might also be in a capacity to do ourselves justice upon
them in an extraordinary manner.
We were now bound to the gulf of Persia, and from thence to
the coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat; but the chief
of the supercargo's design lay at the Bay of Bengal. The first
disaster that befel us was in the Gulf of Persia, where five of our
men, venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the Gulf, were
surrounded by the Arabs, and either all killed or carried away into
slavery. I began to upbraid them with the just retribution to
Heaven in this case; but the boatswain very warmly told me he
thought I went farther in my censures than I could show any
warrant for in Scripture, and referred to the thirteenth of St Luke,
verse 4th, where our Saviour intimates that those men on whom
the tower of Siloam fell were not sinners above all the Galileans:
but that which indeed put me to silence in this case was, that
none of these five men, who were now lost, were of the number
of those who went on shore to the massacre of Madagascar.
But my frequent preaching to them on this subject had worse
consequences than I expected; and the boatswain, who had been
the head of the attempt, came up boldly to me one time, and told
me that, unless I would resolve to have done with it, and also
not to concern myself farther with him, or any of his affairs, he
would leave the ship, for he did not think it was safe to sail
with me among them.
I told him that I did confess I had all along opposed the mas-
sacre of Madagascar, for such I would always call it; and that I was
a considerable owner of the ship, and in that claim I conceived
I had a right to speak, even farther than I had yet done, and
would not be accountable to him or any one else. He made but
little reply to me at that time, and I thought that affair had been
over. We were at this time in the road to Bengal: and being
willing to see the place, I went on shore with the supercargo, in
the ship's boat, to divert myself; and towards evening was prepar-
ing to go on board, when one of the men came to me, and told
me he would not have me trouble myself to come down to the
boat, for they had orders not to carry me on board. I immedi-
ately went and found out the supercargo and told him the story,
and entreated him to go immediately on board the ship in an
Indian boat and acquaint the captain of it. But I might have
spared this intelligence, for before I had spoken to him on shore,
the matter was effected on board: the boatswain, the gunner, the
carpenter, and, in a word, all the inferior officers, as soon as I
was gone off in the boat, came up to the quarter deck and desired
to speak with the captain; and there the boatswain, making a
long harangue, told the captain in a few words that, as I was now
gone peaceably on shore, they were loath to use any violence with
me,—which, if I had not gone on shore, they would otherwise
have done, to oblige me to have gone. They therefore thought
fit to tell him that, as they shipped themselves to serve in the ship
under his command, they would perform it faithfully; but, if I
would not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it, they
would all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him.
When my nephew, the captain, who came to me on shore, told
me this, I said he should not be concerned at all, for I would stay
on shore: I only desired he would send me all my necessary
things on shore, and leave me a sufficient sum of money, and I
would find my way to England as well as I could. So the matter
was over in a very few hours; the men returned to their duty,
and I began to consider what course I should steer.
At Bengal, Crusoe meets with an English merchant, with whom he enters into
partnership, and makes a voyage to Siam and China—They return to Bengal,
where they purchase a Dutch coasting vessel, which they afterwards discover
the crew had run away with—Their new purchase brings them into danger,
as they are mistaken for pirates, and chased by English and Dutch boats—
They beat off their pursuers, and set sail for Cochin China, where they have
an encounter with the natives—They arrive at Quinchang, where they part from
their ship—Crusoe visits Nankin and Pekin, and travels with a caravan of
merchants through Tartary and Russia—Winters in Siberia—Sails from Arch-
angel to Hamburg—Arrives in England, after an absence of nearly eleven
years, and determines to wander no more.

WAS now alone in the remotest part of the world,
for I was near three thousand leagues, by sea, farther
off from England than I was at my island; only, it
is true, I might travel here, by land, over the Great
Mogul's country to Surat; might go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the Gulf of Persia, and from thence might
take the way of the caravans, over the deserts of Arabia to Aleppo
and Scanderoon, and from thence by sea again to Italy, and so
overland into France. I had another way before me, which was
to wait for some English ships, which were coming to Bengal
from Achin, on the island of Sumatra, and get passage on
board them for England.
Here I had the particular pleasure, speaking by contrarieties,
to see the ship set sail without me—a treatment, I think, a man
in my circumstances scarce ever met with, except from pirates run-
ning away with the ship, and setting those that would not agree
with their villany on shore. However, my nephew left me two
servants, or rather, one companion and one servant: the first was
clerk to the purser, whom he engaged to go with me; and the
other was his own servant. I took me also a good lodging in the
ADVENTURES OF
house of an English woman, where several merchants lodged,
some French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one Englishman.
After a long stay here, the English merchant, who lodged with
me, and with whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance,
came to me one morning. "Countryman," says he, "I have a
project to communicate to you, which, as it suits with my thoughts,
may, for aught I know, suit with yours also, when you shall have
thoroughly considered it.
"If you will put a thousand pounds to my thousand pounds, we
will hire a ship here, the first we can get to our minds. You shall
be captain, I'll be merchant, and we will go a trading voyage to
China; for what should we stand still for? The whole world is
in motion; all the creatures of God, heavenly bodies and earthly,
are busy and diligent: why should we be idle? There are no
drones," says he, "living in the world but men: why should we
be of that number?" I liked this proposal very well; and the
more because it seemed to be expressed with so much good-will,
and in so friendly a manner. It was, however, some time before
we could get a ship to our mind; and, when we got a vessel, it
was not easy to get English sailors. However, after some time
we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a Dutch car-
penter, and three Portuguese foremastmen: with these we found
we could do well enough, having Indian seamen, such as they
are, to make up.
We made the voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, first;
and from thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares
for opium, and some for arrack,—the first a commodity which
bears a great price among the Chinese, and which, at that time,
was very much wanted there. In a word, we went up to Susham,
made a very great voyage, were eight months out, and returned to
Bengal. I got so much money by the first adventure, and such
an insight into the method of getting more, that, had I been twenty
years younger, I should have been tempted to have stayed here,
and sought no farther for making my fortune; but what was all
this to a man on the wrong side of threescore, that was rich enough,
and came abroad more in obedience to a restless desire of seeing
the world than a covetous desire of getting on in it? I was come
into a part of the world which I never was in before—and that
part, in particular, which I had heard much of—and was resolved
to see as much of it as I could.
363
But my fellow-traveller and I had different notions. My new
friend kept himself to the nature of the thing, and would have been
content to have gone, like a carrier's horse, always to the same inn,
backward and forward, provided he could, as he called it, find
his account in it: on the other hand, mine, as old as I was, was
the notion of a mad rambling boy, that never cares to see a thing
twice over. But this was not all. I had a kind of impatience
upon me to be nearer home, and yet the most unsettled resolution
imaginable which way to go. In the interval of these consulta-
tions, my friend, who was always on the search for business, proposed another voyage to me, namely, among the Spice Islands; and
to bring home a load of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts.
We were not long in preparing for this voyage, which we made very
successfully, touching at Borneo, and several islands whose names
I do not remember, and came home in about five months. We
sold our spice, which was chiefly cloves, and some nutmegs, to the
Persian merchants, who carried them away for the Gulf; and, mak-
ing near five of one, we really got a great deal of money.
A little while after this there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia;
she was a coaster, and of about two hundred tons burden: the
men, as they pretended, having been so sickly that the captain
had not men enough to go to sea, he lay by at Bengal, and gave
public notice that he would sell his ship. This came to my ears
before my new partner heard of it; and I had a great mind to
buy it So I went home to him, and told him of it: he con-
sidered a while, for he was no rash man neither; but, musing
some time, he replied, "She is a little too big; but, however, we
will have her." Accordingly, we bought the ship, and took pos-
session; when we had done so, we resolved to entertain the men,
if we could, to join them with those we had, for the pursuing our
business; but, on a sudden—they not having received their wages,
but their share of the money, as we afterwards learnt—not one of
them was to be found. A few days after, I came to know what
sort of fellows they were; for, in short, their history was—that
this man they called captain was the gunner only, not the com-
mander; they had been a trading voyage, in which they were
attacked on shore by some of the Malaccans, who had killed the
captain and three of his men; and, after the captain was killed,
these men had run away with the ship, and had brought her in at
the Bay of Bengal, leaving the mate and five men more on shore.
ADVENTURES OF
We picked up some English seamen here after this, and some
Dutch, and we now resolved for a second voyage for cloves, &c., among the Philippine and Molucca isles; and, in short, I spent,
from first to last, six years in this country, trading from port to
port, backward and forward, and with very good success; and
was now, the last year, with my partner, going in the ship above
mentioned, on a voyage to China, but designing first to goto Siam,
to buy rice. In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to
beat up and down a great while in the straits of Malacca, and
among the islands, we were no sooner got clear of those difficult
seas, but we found our ship had sprung a leak, and we were not
able to find out where it was. This forced us to make for some
port; and my partner, who knew the country better than I did,
directed the captain to put into the river of Cambodia; for I had
made the English mate, one Mr. Thomson, captain, not being
willing to take the charge of the ship upon myself.
While we were here, and going often on shore for refreshment,
there comes to me one day an Englishman, who was, it seems, a
gunner's mate on board an English East India ship, which rode
in the same river. "Sir," says he, "I have something to tell you
that very nearly concerns you."—" If it very nearly concerns me,"
said I, "and not yourself, what moves you to tell it me ?"—" I
am moved," said he, "by the imminent danger you are in; and
for aught I see, you have no knowledge of it."—" I know no
danger I am in," said I, "but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot
find it out; but I propose to lay her aground to-morrow, to see if
I can find it."—" But, sir," says he, "leaky or not leaky, find it or
not find it, you will be wiser than to lay your ship on shore to
morrow, when you hear what I have to say to you. The town of
Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river, and there are
two large English ships about five leagues on this side, and three
Dutch ? "—" Well," said I, "and what is that to me ? "—" Well,
sir," says he, "if you do not put to sea immediately, you will be
attacked by five longboats full of men; and, perhaps, if you are
taken, you will be hanged for a pirate, and the particulars be
examined into afterwards. I suppose you know well enough that
you were with this ship at Sumatra; that there your captain was
murdered by the Malaccans, with three of his men; and that you,
or some of those that were on board with you, ran away with the
ship, and are since turned PIRATES. This is the sum of the story
36S
and you will all be seized as pirates, and executed with very little
ceremony, if they get you in their power. If you have any regard
for your life, and the lives of all your men, put out to sea, without
fail, at high water."—" Well," said I, "you have been very kind
in this: what shall I do for you to make you amends? "—"Sir,"
says he, "I have nineteen months' pay due to me on board the
ship , which I came out of England in, and the Dutchman
that is with me has seven months' pay due to him; if you will
make good our pay to us, we will go along with you; if you find
nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but if we do convince
you that we have saved your life, and the ship, and the lives of
all the men in her, we will leave the rest to you."
I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and
the two men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's side, my
partner, who was on board, came on the quarter-deck, and called
to me with a great deal of joy, "O ho! O ho ! we have stopped
the leak !"—" Say you so?" said I; "thank God; but weigh the
anchor, then, immediately." He was surprised; but called the
captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to be got up, and
we stood out to sea: then I called him into the cabin, and told
him the story at large. Presently a seaman comes to the cabin
door, and calls out to us that the captain bade him tell us we were
chased. "Chased!" said I, "by whom, and by what ?"—" By
five sloops, or boats," said the fellow, "full of men." We made
ready for fight, but all this while kept out to sea, with wind enough,
and could see five large longboats, following us, with all the sail
they could make. Two of these boats, which we could see were
English, had outsailed the rest, and gained upon us considerably;
upon which we fired a gun without a shot, and we put out a flag
of truce as a signal for parley, but they kept crowding after us till
they came within shot. Upon this we took in our white flag, they
having made no answer to it, hung out the red flag, and fired at
them with shot. It was all one: they crowded after us, and
endeavoured to come under our stern, so to board us on our
quarter; upon which I ordered to bring the ship to, so that they
lay upon our broadside, when immediately we fired five guns at
them—one of which carried away the stern of the hindermost
boat. While this was doing, one of the three boats that was
behind made up to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her,
and we could afterwards see her take out the men: we called
ADVENTURES OF
again to the foremost boat, but she crowded close under our stern.
Upon this our gunner ran out his two chase guns, and fired at her;
then we weared the ship again, and brought our quarter to bear
upon them, and, firing three guns more, we found the boat was
split almost to pieces. Upon this I immediately manned out our
pinnace, with orders to pick up some of the men. Our men in
the pinnace followed their orders, and took up three men, one of
whom was drowning. As soon as they were on board, we
crowded all the sail we could, and the boats gave over their chase.
Being thus delivered from a danger, I took care that we should
change our course, and not let any one imagine whither we were
going: so we stood out to sea eastward, quite out of the course
of all European ships. We now began to consult with the two
seamen, and inquire what the meaning of all this should be?
The Dutchman told us that the fellow that sold us the ship, as we
said, was no more than a thief that had ran away with her; that
the captain was treacherously murdered by the natives on the
coast of Malacca, with three of his men; and that he, this Dutch-
man, and four more, got into the woods, where they wandered
about, till at length he made his escape, and swam off to a Dutch
ship. He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of the
seamen belonging to the ship had arrived, having deserted the
rest in their travels, and gave an account that the fellow who had
run away with the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates,
which were gone a-cruising in her.
It was my partner's opinion that we should go directly back to
Bengal, from whence we came, because there we could give an
account of ourselves, and could prove where we were when the
ship put in, whom we bought her of, and the like. I was some-
time of that opinion; but, after a little more serious thinking, I
told him I thought it was a very great hazard for us to attempt
returning to Bengal, for we should be sure to be waylaid.
This danger a little startled my partner, and we immediately
resolved to go away to the coast of Tonquin, and so on to China.
After a tedious and irregular course, we came within sight of the
coast of Cochin China, and resolved to put into a small river,
which, however, had depth enough of water for us. This happy
step was our deliverance; for the next morning there came into
the Bay of Tonquin two Dutch ships; and a third without any
colours spread out, but which we believed to be a Dutchman,
367
passed by at two leagues' distance, steering for the coast of China;
and in the afternoon went by two English ships, steering the same
course. The place we were in was wild and barbarous, the people
thieves, even by occupation or profession.
I have observed above that our ship sprang a leak at sea, and
that it was stopped unexpectedly; yet, as we did not find the
ship so perfectly tight and sound as we desired, we resolved, while
we were in this place, to lay her on shore, if possible, to find out
where the leaks were. Accordingly, having lightened the ship,
we tried to bring her down, that we might come at her bottom.
The inhabitants came wondering down to the shore to look at
us; and not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom
with stages, and with their boats on the off side, they presently
concluded that the ship was cast away. On this supposition,
they came all about us, with ten or twelve large boats, intending,
no doubt, to plunder the ship. I called to the men who worked
upon the stages to get up the side into the ship, and bade those
in the boat to row round and come on board; but, before they
could do as they were ordered, the Cochin-Chinese were upon
them, and boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the
men as their prisoners. The first man they laid hold of was an
English seaman, a stout, strong fellow, who, having a musket in
his hand, never offered to fire it, but laid it down in the boat,
like a fool, as I thought. But he understood his business better
than I could teach him; for he grappled the Pagan, and dragged
him by main force out of their own boat into ours, where, taking
him by the two ears, he beat his head so against the boat's
gunnel, that the fellow died instantly in his hands; and, in the
meantime, a Dutchman, who stood next, took up the musket,
and, with the butt-end of it, so laid about him, that he knocked
down five who attempted to enter the boat. But this was little
towards resisting thirty or forty men. An accident, however,
gave our men a complete victory. Our carpenter, being prepared
to grave the outside of the ship, as well as to pay the seams
where he caulked her to stop the leaks, had got two kettles, just
let down into the boat—one filled with boiling pitch, and the
other with rosin, tallow, and oil; and the man that tended the
carpenter had a great iron ladle in his hand: two of the enemy's
men entered the boat just where the fellow stood, and he
immediately saluted them with a ladleful of the stuff boiling hot.
ADVENTURES OF
which so burnt and scalded them, being half naked, that they
roared out like two bulls, and, enraged with the fire, leaped both
into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and, stepping forward him-
self, takes one of their mops, and dipping it in the pitch-pot, he
and his man threw it among them so plentifully, that, of all the
men in three boats, there was not one that was not scalded and
burnt with it, and made such a howling and crying that I never
heard a worse noise, and, indeed, nothing like it. All the while
this was doing, my partner and I, who managed the rest of the
men on board, had, with great dexterity, brought the ship almost
to rights; and, having got the guns into their places again, the
gunner called to me to bid our boat get out of the way, for he
would let fly among them. I bade him not offer to fire, for the
carpenter would do the work without him; but bade him heat
another pitch-kettle, which our cook, who was on board, took
care of. But the enemy was so terrified with what they met with
in their first attack, that they would not come on again; and
some of them that were furthest off, seeing the ship swim, as it
were, upright, began, as we supposed, to see their mistake, and
gave over the enterprise, finding it was not as they expected
.
The next day, having finished our work within board, and finding
our ship was perfectly healed of all her leaks, we set sail. We
kept on north east, as if we would go to the Manillas or the Philip-
pine Islands, and this we did that we might not fall into the way
of any European ships; and then we steered north again, till we
came to the latitude of twenty-two degrees twenty minutes, by
which means we made the island of Formoso directly, where we
came to an anchor, in order to get water and fresh provisions.
From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at
an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond all the ports of
China where our European ships usually come. Being now come
to the latitude of thirty degrees, we resolved to put into the first
trading port we should come at; and, standing in for the shore,
a boat came off two leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot
on board, who came to offer his services, which, indeed, we were
very glad of, and took him on board.
I had conversation with the pilot, who, it seems, knew the whole
story of the attack of the Dutchman, and I told him it was our
ship they followed and attacked, believing us to be pirates. Learn-
ing from him after we came to anchor at the south-west point of
the great Gulf of Nanquin, whither I had pressed him to carry us,
that the two Dutch ships had gone to Nanquin, I asked the old
pilot if there was no creek or harbour which I might put into, and
pursue my business with the Chinese privately, and be in no danger
of the enemy. He told me, if I would sail to the southward about
two-and-forty leagues, there was a little port called Quinchang,
where the fathers of the mission usually landed from Macao, on
their progress to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and
where no European ships ever put in.
We all agreed to go back to this place, and we weighed the next
day, having only gone twice on shore, where we were to get fresh
water. We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) not
till five days; but it was very much to our satisfaction, and I was
joyful, and I may say thankful, when I set my foot safe on shore;
resolving, and my partner too, that if it was possible to dispose of
ourselves and effects any other way, though not every way to our
satisfaction, we would never set foot on board that unhappy vessel
again. When we came on shore, the old pilot, who was now our
friend, got us a lodging, and a warehouse for our goods. Besides
this, he brought us acquainted with three missionary Romish
priests, who were in the town, and who had been there some time,
converting the people to Christianity. One of these was a French-
man, whom they called Father Simon; he was a jolly, well-con-
ditioned man, very free in his conversation, not seeming so serious
and grave as the other two did, one of whom was a Portuguese,
and the other a Genoese. This French priest was appointed, it
seems, by order of the chief of the mission, to go up to Pekin,
the royal seat of the Chinese Emperor, and waited only for another
priest, who was ordered to come to him from Macao, to go along
with him; and we scarce ever met together but he was inviting
me to go that journey with him, telling me, how he would show
me all the glorious things of that mighty empire, and amongst the
rest, the greatest city in the world.
Dining with the missionary one day, I showed some little incli-
nation to go with him; and he pressed me and my partner very
hard, and with a great many persuasions, to consent. But we had
our ship and our merchandise to dispose of. At length our pro-
spects began to clear up a little. Our old Portuguese pilot brought
a Japan merchant to us, who bought all our opium, and gave us
a very good price for it. I proposed to him to deal with us for
2
ADVENTURES OP
our ship also, and he consented to hire her to go to Japan, saying
that on his return he would buy the ship. But after this, we, on
the proposition of my partner, made over half the ship to the young
man whom my nephew had left with me as a companion, and took
a writing from him obliging him to account to us for the other
half. So away he went to Japan.
We were now on shore in China, destitute of all manner of
prospect of return! But in about four months' time there was to
be another fair at that place where we were, and then we might
possibly find some Chinese junks or vessels from Nanquin, that
would be to be sold, and would carry us and our goods whither
we pleased. Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here;
but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three journeys into the
country. First, we went ten days' journey to see the city of
Nanquin—a city well worth seeing, indeed. I had also a mind
to see the city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and Father
Simon importuned me daily to do it. At length his time of going
away being set, it was necessary that we should resolve either to
go or not to go; so I referred him to my partner, and left it
wholly to his choice, who at length resolved it in the affirmative,
and we prepared for our journey. We set out with very good
advantage, as to finding the way; for we got leave to travel in the
retinue of one of their mandarins, a kind of viceroy, or principal
magistrate. We were five-and-twenty days travelling to Pekin,
through a country infinitely populous, but miserably cultivated:
the husbandry, economy, and the way of living, all very miserable,
though they boast so much of the industry of the people. The
pride of these people is infinitely great, and exceeded by nothing
but their poverty, which adds to that which I call their misery.
My friend, Father Simon, and I used to be very merry upon
these occasions, to see the beggarly pride of those people. For
example, coming by the house of a country gentleman, as Father
Simon called him, about ten leagues off from the city of Nanquin,
we had, first of all, the honour to ride with the master of the house
about two miles : the state he rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism,
being a mixture of pomp and poverty.
The habit of this greasy Don was very proper for a scaramouch,
or merryandrew, being a dirty calico, with all the tawdry trappings
of a fool's coat, such as hanging sleeves, taffety, and cuts and
slashes almost on every side; it covered a rich taffety vest, as
371
greasy as a butcher, and which testified that his honour must
needs be a most exquisite sloven. His horse was a poor, lean,
starved, hobbling creature, such as in England might sell for about
thirty or forty shillings; and he had two slaves followed him on
foot, to drive the poor creature along: he had a whip in his hand,
and he belaboured the beast as fast about the head as his slaves
did about the tail; and thus he rode by us with about ten or
twelve servants, and we were told he was going from the city to
his country seat, about half a league before us. We travelled on
gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode away before us; and
as we stopped at a village about an hour, to refresh us, when we
came by the country seat of this great man, we saw him in a little
place before his door, eating his repast; it was a kind of garden,
but he was easy to be seen, and we were given to understand that
the more we looked on him the better he would be pleased.
He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto tree, which
effectually shaded him over the head, and on the south side; but
under the tree also was placed a large umbrella, which made that
part look well enough; he sat lolling back in a great elbow chair,
being a heavy corpulent man, and his meat being brought him by
two women slaves: he had two more, whose office, I think, few
gentlemen in Europe would accept of their service in, namely,
one fed the squire with a spoon, and the other held the dish with
one hand, and scraped off what he let fall upon his worship's
beard and taffety vest, with the other; while the great fat brute
thought it below him to employ his own hands in any of those
familiar offices which kings and monarchs would rather do than
be troubled with the clumsy fingers of their servants.
I took this time to think what pain men's pride puts them to,
and how troublesome a haughty temper, thus ill-managed, must
be to a man of common sense; and, leaving the poor wretch to
please himself with our looking at him, as if we admired his pomp,
whereas we really pitied and contemned him, we pursued our
journey to Pekin.
At length we arrived at Pekin. I had nobody with me but the
youth whom my nephew the captain had given me to attend me
as a servant, and who proved very trusty and diligent; and my
partner had nobody with him but one servant, who was a kins-
man. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see the
court, we gave him his passage, that is to say bore his charges,
ADVENTURES OF
for his company, and to use him as an interpreter—for he under-
stood the language of the country, and spoke good French and
a little English; and, indeed, this old man was a most useful
implement to us everywhere; for we had not been above a week
at Pekin, when he came laughing, and told us there was a great
caravan of Muscovy and Polish merchants in the city, and that
they were preparing to set out on their journey, by land, to
Muscovy, within four or five weeks. We then went to consult
together what was to be done, and I and my partner agreed, that,
if our Portuguese pilot would go with us, we would bear his
charges to Moscow, or to England, if he pleased. He received
the proposal like a man transported, and told us he would go
with us over the whole world.
It was the beginning of February, our style, when we set out
from Pekin. The company was very great, and, as near as I can
remember, made between three and four hundred horses and
camels, and upwards of a hundred and twenty men, very well
armed, and provided for all events. We consisted of people 01
several nations, such as the Muscovites chiefly,—for there were
about sixty of them who were merchants or inhabitants of Moscow,
though of them some were Livonians; and, to our particular
satisfaction, five of them were Scots, who appeared also to be
men of great experience in business and very good substance.
When we had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who were
five in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants, that is
to say, all the passengers, except the servants, to a great council,
as they termed it. At this great council, every one deposited a
certain quantity of money to a common stock, for the necessary
expense of buying forage on the way, where it was not otherwise
to be had, and for satisfying the guides, getting horses, and the
like. And here they constituted the journey, as they called it,
namely, they named captains and officers to draw us all up, and
give the command in case of an attack; and gave every one their
turn of command. In two days more we passed the great China
wall, made for a fortification against the Tartars. And here I
began to find the necessity of keeping together in a caravan, as
we travelled, for we saw several troops of Tartars roving about
Our leader for the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a-
hunting, as they call it: and what was this but hunting of sheep!
However, it may be called hunting too; for the creatures are the
HETOUR DE ROBINSON EN EUROPE
wildest and swiftest of foot that ever I saw of their kind,—only
they will not run a great way; and you are sure of sport when you
begin the chase, for they appear generally by thirty or forty in a
flock, and, like true sheep, always keep together when they fly.
In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet
with about forty Tartars, who, as soon as they saw us, one of them
blew a kind of horn very loud, but with a barbarous sound that I
had never heard before, and, by the way, never care to hear again.
We all supposed this was to call their friends about them; and
so it was, for in less than half a quarter of an hour, a troop of forty
or fifty more appeared at about a mile distance; but our work
was over first, as it happened.
One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be amongst
us; and as soon as he heard the horn, he told us, in short, that
we had nothing to do but to charge them immediately, without
loss of time; and, drawing us up in a line, he asked if we were
resolved? We told him we were ready to follow him; so he rode
directly up to them. They stood gazing at us like a mere crowd,
drawn up in no order; but, as soon as they saw us advance, they
let fly their arrows,—which, however, missed us very happily: it
seems they mistook not their aim, but their distance: for their
arrows all fell a little short of us, but with so true an aim, that
had we been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several
men wounded, if not killed. Immediately we halted; and, though
it was at a great distance, we fired, and sent them leaden bullets
for wooden arrows, following our shot full gallop, resolving to fall
in among them sword in hand—for so our bold Scot that led us
directed. As soon as we came up to them, we fired our pistols
in their faces, and then drew; but they fled in the greatest con-
fusion imaginable. We had, however, this misfortune, namely,
that all our mutton that we had in chase got away.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore
the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards; but, in about five
days, we entered a vast great wild desert, which held us three
days' and nights' march. I asked our guides whose dominion
this was in? and they told me this was a kind of border that
might be called No Man's Land, being part of the great Kara-
kathy, or Grand Tartary, but that, however, it was reckoned to
China; that there was no care taken here to preserve it from
the inroads of thieves, and therefore it was reckoned the worst
desert in the whole march, though we were to go over some
much larger.
In passing this wilderness, which, I confess, was at the first
view very frightful to me, we saw two or three times little parties
of the Tartars, but they seemed to be upon their own affairs,
and to have no design upon us; and so, like the man who met
the devil, if they had nothing to say to us, we had nothing to
say to them: we let them go.
We travelled near a month after this, the ways being not so
good as at first, though still in the dominions of the Emperor of
China, but lay, for the most part, in villages,—some of which
were fortified, because of the incursions of the Tartars.
We wanted about two days' journey of the fortified city of
Naum, when messengers were sent express to every part of the
road, to tell all travellers and caravans to halt, till they had a
guard sent to them; for that an unusual body of Tartars, making
ten thousand in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty miles
beyond the city. Accordingly, two days after, we had two hundred
soldiers sent us from a garrison of the Chinese on our left, and
three hundred more from the city of Naum, and with those we
advanced boldly. We were entered upon a desert of about
fifteen or sixteen miles over, when behold, by a cloud of dust they
raised, we saw an enemy was at hand. The Tartars came on, and
an innumerable company they were. A party of them came on
first, and when within gunshot our leader ordered the two wings
to advance swiftly and give them a salvo on each wing, which was
done; and, wheeling off to the left, they gave over the design.
Two days after this we came to the city of Naum, or Naumn.
After this we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful deserts,
one of which we were sixteen days passing over; and, on the 13th
of April, we came to the frontiers of the Muscovite dominions.
As we entered into the Muscovite dominions, we were very visibly
obliged to the care the Czar of Muscovy has taken to have cities
and towns built in as many places as are possible to place them,
where his soldiers keep garrison something like the stationary
soldiers placed by the Romans in the remotest countries of their
empire; though wherever we came at these towns and stations,
the garrisons and governor were Russians, and professed mere
pagans, sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the sun, moon, and
stars, or all the host of heaven: and were, of all the heathens
375
and pagans that ever I met with, the most barbarous, except only
that they did not eat man's flesh, as our savages of America did.
In a village near Nertzinskay, I had the curiosity to go and see
their way of living, which is most brutish and insufferable: they
had, I suppose, a great sacrifice that day; for there stood out
upon an old stump of a tree an idol made of wood, frightful as
anything we can think of to represent the devil that can be made.
It had a head certainly not so much as resembling any creature
that the world ever saw—ears as big as goats' horns, and as high
—eyes as big as a crown piece, and a nose like a crooked ram's
horn—and a mouth extended four-cornered, like that of a lion,
with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill. Its upper
garment was of sheep-skins, with the wool outward; a great
Tartar bonnet on the head, with two horns growing through it:
it was about eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, or any other
proportion of parts. This scarecrow was set up at the outside
of the village; and, when I came near to it, there were sixteen
or seventeen creatures lying flat on the ground round this for-
midable block of shapeless wood. A little way off from this
monster, and at the door of a tent or hut, stood three butchers—
I thought they were such; for when I came nearer to them, I
found they had long knives in their hands, and in the middle of
the tent appeared three sheep killed, and one young bullock or
steer. But these, it seerns, were sacrifices to that senseless log
of an idol; and the three men, priests belonging to it; and the
seventeen prostrated wretches were the people who brought the
offering, and were making their prayers.
I confess I was more moved at their stupidity, and this brutish
worship of a hobgoblin, than ever I was at anything in my life.
I rode up to the image, or monster—call it what you will—and
with my sword cut the bonnet that was on its head in two in the
middle, so that it hung down by one of the horns: and one of
our men, that was with me, took hold of the sheep-skin that
covered it, and pulled at it, when, behold, a most hideous outcry
and howling ran through the village, and two or three hundred
people came about my ears, so that I was glad to scour for it, for
we saw some had bows and arrows. But I resolved, from that
moment, to visit them again.
Our caravan rested three nights at the town, so we had some
leisure here to put my design in execution. I communicated my
ADVENTURES OF
project to the Scots merchant of Moscow. He laughed at me at
first, but finding me resolute, he told me that he would go with
me; but he would go first and bring a stout fellow, one of his
countrymen, to go also with us. He brought me a Tartar's robe,
or gown of sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and
had provided the same for himself and his countryman, that the
people, if they saw us, should not be able-to determine who we were.
All the first night we spent in mixing up some combustible matter
with aquavitse, gunpowder, and such other materials as we could
get; and having a good quantity of tar in a little pot, about an
hour after night we set out upon our expedition. We came to the
place about eleven o'clock at night, and found that the people
were at their rest; only, that in the great hut, or tent, as we called
it, where we saw the three priests whom we mistook for butchers,
we saw a light; and, going up close to the door, we heard people
talking, as if there were five or six of them. We determined on
making them our prisoners; and, tying their hands, compelled
them to stand and see their idol destroyed, which we accomplished
by means of the combustibles we had brought with us.
In the morning we appeared among our fellow-travellers, exceed-
ingly busy in getting ready for our journey, and no one could
suggest that we had been anywhere but in our beds. But it did
not end so. Next day there came a great multitude of the country
people to the town gates, demanding satisfaction of the Russian
governor for insulting their priests, and burning their great Cham-
Chi-Thaunga, for so they called the monstrous creature they wor-
shipped. The governor gave them all the good words imaginable;
and at last, to appease them, told them there was a caravan gone
to Russia that morning, and that it was perhaps some of this
company that had done them the injury. Then he sent after us,
intimating that if any in our caravan had done it, they should make
their escape; and that whether we had done it or no, we should
make all the haste forward that was possible. The captain of the
caravan took the hint, and we travelled two days and two nights,
without any considerable stop, and then we lay at a village called
Plothus. From thence we hastened on towards Jarawena; but
on the second day's march across the desert, by the clouds of dust
behind us, we began to be sensible we were pursued. The third
day, when we had encamped, the enemy came upon us in great
numbers, and we only escaped them through the cunning of a
ROBINSON ET LE SEIGNEUR RUSSE
Cossack of Jarawena; who, telling our leader he would send these
people away to Sibeilka, rode away from our rear, and, taking a
great circuit about, came to the army of Tartars, as if he had been
sent express to them, and told them that the people who had burnt
their Cham-Chi-Thaunga were gone to Sibeilka with a caravan of
miscreants, that is to say Christians, and that they were resolved
to burn the god Seal Isarg, belonging to the Tonguses. Upon
this, away the Tartars drove in a violent hurry, and in less than
three hours they were entirely out of our sight. So we passed
safely on to Jarawena, and from thence through a frightful desert
to a country pretty well inhabited.
I have nothing material to say of my particular affairs, till I came
to Tobolski, the capital of Siberia, where I let the caravan go, and
made provision to winter. This being the country where the state
criminals of Muscovy are all banished, the city was full of noblemen,
princes, and gentlemen, with several of whom I made acquaintance.
About the latter end of May I began to make all ready to pack
up, and proposed to a certain prince,—a banished minister of the
Czar,—that, as I went in the nature of a caravan, and could encamp
every night where I would, he might easily pass with me uninter-
rupted to Archangel, where I could secure him on board an
English or Dutch ship, and carry him off safe along with me. He
heard me very attentively, declined my offer, but asked me if I
had kindness enough to offer the same to another person in whom
he had a great share of concern. I told him, if he would please
to name the person to me, I would give him an answer. There-
upon he said it was his only son; I made no hesitation, but told
him I would do it.
It was in the beginning of June when I left this remote place,
with my young lord, and a faithful Muscovite, or rather Siberian,
servant he had with him. On the i8th of July we all arrived safe
at Archangel, but were obliged to stay at this place five weeks for
the arrival of the ships. We sailed from Archangel on the 20th
of August, in a Hamburgher, and arrived in the Elbe the I3th of
September. Here my partner and I found a very good sale for
our goods; and, dividing the produce, my share amounted to three
thousand four hundred and seventy-five pounds seventeen shillings
and three pence. Here the young lord took leave of us, and went
up the Elbe, in order to go to the Court of Vienna, where he
resolved to seek protection.
To conclude, having stayed near four months at Hamburgh, I
came from thence overland to the Hague, where I embarked in
the packet, and arrived in London the loth of January 1705,
having been gone from England ten years and nine months. And
here, resolving to harass myself no more, I am preparing for a
longer journey than all these, having lived seventy-two years a
life of infinite variety, and learnt sufficiently to know the value
of retirement, and the blessing of ending our days in peace.

HU 51JB 3

