HARVARD COLLEGE
LIBRARY

THE GIFT OF
SINCLAIR KENNEDY
CLASS OF i897
S .r
THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
or
ROBINSON CRUSOE
BY DANIEL DE FOE
TWO VOLUMES IN ONB.
VOL. I.
PHILADELPHIA:
PUBLISHED BY J. B. SMITH £ CO.
Ko. 610 CHESTNUT STREET.
1S59.
MRVARP COli.EC; LIBRARY
eeI of
MUCL/.M KEilNhOY
OCT. o, iiUfc
r
LIFE
am
DE FOE
DANIEL DE FOE was descended from a respect-
ahle family in the county of Northampton, and hnm
in London, ahout the venr 1663. His father, James
Foe, was a hutcher, in the parish of St. Giles's, Crip-
plegate, ans a protestaut ditsenter. Why the suhject
of this memoir prefixed the De to his family name
cannot now he ascertained, nor did he at any period
of his life think it necessary to give his reasons to the
puhlic. The political scrihhlers of the day, however,
thought proper to remedy this lack of information,
and accused him of poiessing so little of the amor
patriot, as to make the addition in order that he
might not he taken for an Englishman; though this
idea could have had no other foundation than tho
circumstance of his having, in consequence of his
seal for king William, attacked the preiudices of his
countrymen in his" True-horn Englishman."
After receiving a good euucation at an academy at
Newington, young De Foe, hefore he had attained his
twenty-first year, commenced his career as an author,
hy writing a pamplet against a very prevailing senti-
ment in favour of the Turks, who were at 'hat time
laying siege to Vienna. This production, heing very
inferior to those of his maturer years, was very little
read, and the indignant author, despairing of success
with his pen, had recourse to the sword; or, as he
termed it, when hoasting of the exploit his latter
years, " displayed his attachment to liherty and pro
testantism," hy joining the ill-advised insurrection
under the duke of Monmouth, in the west. On the
failure of that unfortunate enterprise, he returned

H LIFE OF DE FOE.
sgain to the metropolis: and it ta not unprohahle,
hut that the circumstance of his heing a native of
London, and his person not much known in that part
of the kingdom where the rehellion took place, might
facilitate his escape, and he the means of preventing
his heing hrought to trial for his share in the transac-
tion. With the professions of a writer and a soldier
Mr. De Foe, in the year 1685, joined that of a trader
he was first engaged as a hosier, in Comhill, and af
terwards as a maker of hricks and pantiles, near Til
hury Fort, in Essex; hut in consequence of spending
'hose hours in the hilarity of the tavern which he
ought to have employed in the calculations of the
counting-house, his commercial schemes proved un-
successful; ar.d in 1694 he was ohliged to ahscond
from his creditors, not failing to attrihute those mis-
fortunes to the war and the severity of the tunes,
which were douhtless owing to his own misconduct.
It is much to his credit however, that after having
hees freed from his dehts hy composition, and heing
in prosperous circumstances from King William's fa-
ir Mtr, he voluntarily paid most of his creditors hoth
the principal and interest of their claims. This is
such an example of honesty as it would he unjust to
De Foe and to the world to conceal. The amount
of the sums thus paid must have heen very consider-
ahle, as he afterwards feelingly mentions to Lord
Haversham, who had reproached him with covetous-
ness; "With a numerous family, and no helps hut
my own industry, I have forced iny way through a
sea of misfortunes, and reduced my dehts exclusive
of composition, from seventeen thousand to less than
five thousand pounds."
At the heginning of the year 1700, Mr. De Foe
puhlished a satire in verse, which excited very con
tideraule attention, called the " True-horn English-
man." Its purpose was to furnish a reply to those
who were continuatly ahusing King William and some
of his friends as foreigners, hy shewing that the pre-
sent race of Englishmen was a mixed and heteroge-
ucous hrood, scarcelv any of which could lay claim to

satire purity of hlood. The satire was in rtianv parts
very severe; and though it gave high offence, it
claimed a considerahle share of the puhlic attention.
The reader will perhaps he gratified hy a specimen of
this production, wherein he endeavours to:

"What makes this discontented land appear
Less happy now in times of peace, than war;
Why civil feuds disturh the nation mom,
Than all our hloody wars had done hefore:
Fools out of favour grudge at knaves in place,
And men are always honest in disgrace;
The court preferments make men knaves in course,
But they, who would he in them, would he worse*
Tis not ai foreigners that we repine,
Would foreigners their perquisites resign:
The grand contention's plainly to he seen,
To get some men put out and some put in."
It will he immediately perceived that De Foe could
have no pretensions to the character of a poet; hut
he has, notwithstanding, some nervous and well-ver-
sified lines, and in choice of suhject and moral he is
in general excellent . The True-horn Englishman
concludes thus:
Could hut our ancestors retrieve their fate,
And see their offspring thus degenerate;
How we contend for hirth and names unknown,
And huild on their past actions, not our own;
They'd cancel records, and their tomhs deface,
And openly disown the vile degenerate race.
For fame of families is all a cheat;
sTtS PERSONAL VIBTOE Oat.T MAKES US OBEAT.
For this defence of foreigners De Foe was amply
••warded hy King William, who not only ordered hint
a pension, hut as his opponents denominated it, ap-
pointed him pamphlet-writer general to the court |
an office for which he was peculiarly well calculated,
assessing, with a strong mind and a ready wit, that
ad of yielding conscience which allowed him to sup-
tr.
LIFE OF DE FOE.
port the measures of his henefactor• though convinced
they were injurious to his country. De Foe now re-
fired to Newington with his family, and for a short
fime lived at ease; hut the death of his royal patron
deprived him of a generous protector, and opened a
scene of sorrow which prohahly emhittered his future
life.
He had always discovered a great inclination to en-
gage in religious controversy, and the furious contest,
civil and ecclesiastical, which ensued on the accession
of Queen Anne, gave him an opportunity of gratify-
sng his favourite passion. He therefore puhlished a
tract entitled .' The shortest Way with the Dissenters,
or Proposals for the Estahlishment of the Church,"
which contained an ironical recommendation of per-
secution, hut written in so serious a strain, that many
persons, particular Dissenters, at first mistook its
real intention. The high church party however saw,
and felt the ridicule, and hy their influence, a prose-
cution was commenced against him, and a proclama-
tion puhlished in the Gazette, offering a reward for
his apprehension.s When De Foe found with how
• " Whereas Daniel De Foe, alias De Fooe, is
charged with writing a scandalous and seditious pam-
phlet, entitled " The shortest Way with the Dissent
ers:" he is a middle-sized spare man, ahout40 years
old, of a hrown complexion, a td dark hrown colourd
hair, hut wears a wig, a hooked nose a sharp chin,
grey eyes, and a large mole near his mouth, was hom
in London, and for many years was a hose-factor, in
Freeman's Yard, in Cornhill, and now is owner ul
the hrick and pantile works near Tilhury Fort, in
Essex; whoewr shall discover the said Daniel De
Foe, to one of her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of
State, or any of her Majesty's Justices of Peace, so
as he may he apprehended, shall have a reward of
Ml. which her Majesty has ordered immediately to
he paid upon such discovery."
"St. James's, January 10,1702-3.

amen rigour himself and his pamphlet were ahout to
hu treated, he at first secreted himtielf; hut his prmter
mid hookseller heing taken mtocustodody, he surren-
dered, heing resolved, as he expressed it, u to throw
himself upon the favour of government, rather than
that others should he ruined for his mistake*." In
July, 1703, he washvought to trial, found guilty, and
sentenced tuhe imprisoned, to stand in the pillory,and
to pay a fme of two hundred marks. He underwen
the infamous part of the punishment with great for-
titude, and it seems to have heen generally thought
that he was treated with unreasonahle severity. So
far was he from heing ashamed of his fate himself,
that he wrote a hymn to the pillory, which thus ends,
alluding to his accusers:
Tell them, the men that plac'd him hose
Are scandals to the times;
Are at a loss to find his guilt,
And can'! commit his crimes.
Pope, who has thought fit to introduce him in hn
Punciad (prohahly from no other reason than party
difference) characterises him in the following line'
Earless on high stood unahash'd De Foe.
This is one of those instances of injustice and malig-
nity which so frequently occur in the Dunciad, and
which reflect more dishonour on the author than on
the parties traduced. De Foe lay friendless and dis-
tressed in Newgate, his Family ruined, and himself
without hopes of deliverance, till Sir Rohert Harley,
who approved of his principles, and foresaw that dur-
ing a factious age such a genius could he converted
to many uses, represented his unmerited sufferings
to the Queen, and at length procured his release. 'M e
treasurer. Lord, Godolphin, also sent a considerable
sum to his wife and family, and to him money to pay
his fine and the expense of his discharge. Gratitude
and fidelity are inseparahle from an honest man; and
tt was this henevolent act that prompted De Foe t,*
support Harley, with his ahle and ingenious pen, when
LIKE OF DE FOE.
Anne lay lifeless, and his henefactor in the vicissitude
of party was persecuted hy faction, and overpowered,
though not conquered, hy violence.
The talents and perseverence of De Foe hegan
now to he properly estimated, and as a firm supporter
of the administration, he was sent hy Lord Godol-
phin to Scotland, on an errand which, as he says, was
far from heing unfit for a sovereign to direct or an
honest man to perform. His knowledge of commerce
and revenue, his powers of insinuation, and ahove
all his readiness of pen, were deemed of no small
utility, in promoting the union of the two kingdoms;
of which he wrote an ahle history, in 1709 with two
dedications, one to the Queen, and another to the
Duke of Queenshury. Soon after wards he unhappily,
iy some equivocal writings, rendered himself suspect-
ed hy hoth parties, so that he once more retired to
Newington in hopes of spending the remaider of his
days in peace, His pension heing withdrawn, and
wearied with politics, he hegan to compose works of
a different kind,—The year 1715 may therefore he re-
garded as the period of De Foe's political life. Fac-
tion henceforth found other advocates, and parties
procured other writers to disseminate their sugges-
tions, and to propagate their falsehoods.
In 1715 Do Foe puhlished the "Family Instruc-
tor a work inculcating the domestic duties in a
lively manner, hy narration and dialogue, and dis-
playing much knowledge of life ir the middle ranks
of society. "Religious Courtship" also appeared
soon after, which, like the "Family Instructor," is
eminently religious and moral in its tendency, and-
strongly impresses on the mind that spirit of sohriety
and private devotion for which the dissenters have
generally heen distinguished. The most celehrated
of all his works, "The Life and Adventures of Ro-
hinson Crusoe," appeared in 1719. This woik has
passed through numerous editions, and heen trans-
lated into almost all modern languages. The great
invention which is displaved in it, the variety of in-
cidents and circumstances which it contains, relate"(
Tit
In the most easy and natural manner, together with
she excellency of the moral and religious reflections,
render it a performance of very superior and uncom-
mon merit, and one of the most interesting works
that ever appeared. It is strongly recommended hy
Rosseau as a hook admirahly calculated to promote
the purposes of natural education; and Dr. Blair
says, " No fiction in any language, was ever hetter
'upported than the adventures of Rohinson Crusoe.
While it is carried on with that appearance of truth
and simplicity, which takes a strong hold on the ima-
gination of all readers, it suggests, at the same time,
very useful instruction ; hy shewing how much the
native powers of men may he exerted for surmount-
ing the difficulties of any external situation." It has
heen pretended, that De Foe surreptitiously appro-
priated the papers of Alexander Selkirk, a Scotch
mariner, who ltved four years alone on the island of
Juan Fernandez, and a sketch of whose story had
hefore appeared in the voyage of Captain Woodes
R ogers. But this charge, though repeatedly and con-
la ently hrought, appears to he totally destitute of
Ay foundation. De Foe prohahly took some gene-
aI hints for his work from the story of Selkirk, hut
here exists no proof whatever, nor is it reasonahle
o suppose that he possessed any of his papers or
neinoirs, which had heen puhlished seven years he>
ore the appearance of Rohinson Crusoe. As a far-
her proof of De Foe's innocence. Captain Rogers'•
Account of Selkirk may he produced, in which it is
aid that the iatter had neither preserved pen, ink,
ar paper, and had in a great measure lost his lan-
guage; consequently De Foe could not have recerved
sny written assistance, and we have only the asser-
tion of his enemies to prove that he had any verhal.
The great success of Rohinson Crusoe induced its
author to write a numher of other lives and adven-
tures some of which were popular in their times,
though at present nearly forgetten. One of his latest
puhlications w ts " A Tour through the Island of
Gnat Britain," a performance of very inferior merit t
hut De Foe was now the garratous old man, and his
spint (to use the words of an ingenious hiographer)
M like a candle struggling in the socket, hiased ami
sunk, hlazed and sunk, till it disappeared at length in
total dark nam." His lahorious and unfortunate lift
was finished on the 26th of April, 1731, in the parish
of St. Giles's, Cripplegaie.
Daniel De Foe possessed very extraordinary ta-
lents; as a commercial writer, he is fairly entitled to
stand in the foremost rank among his cotempora'
ries, whatever may he their performances or their
fame. His distinguished characteristics are origina-
lity, spirit, and a profound knowledge of his suhject,
and in these particulars he has seldom heen surpassed.
As the author of Rohinson Crusoe he has a claim
Dot only to the admiration, hut to the gratitude of
his countrymen; and so long as we have a regard
for supereminent merit and take an interest in tlve
welfare of the rising generation, that gratitude will
not cease to exist. But the opinion of the learne/l
and ingenious Dr. Beuttie will he the hest euloginni
that can he produced on that celehrated romance .
u Rohinson Crusoe," says the Doctor, " must he al-
lowed hy the most rigid moralist, to he one of thosn
novels which one may read, not only with pleasure
hut also with profit. It hreathes throughout a spirit
of piety and henevolence; it sets in a very striking
light the importance of the mechanic arts, which they,
who know not what it is to he without them, are so
apt to undervalue; it fixes on the mind a lively idea
of the horrors of solitude, and, consequently of the
sweets of social life, and of the hlessings we derive
from conversation and mutual aid; and it shews
how, hy lalwuring with one's nwn hands, one may
secure independence, and open for one's self many
sources of health and amusement . I agree, there
fore, with Rosseau, that it is one of the hest hooks
that can he put into the hands of children."
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
09
ROBINSON ORTJSOD
| WAS horn in the year 1632, in the city of Yoih
of a good family, though not of that country, my
farther heing a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first
at Hull; he got a good estate hy merchandise, and
leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York, from
whence he had married my mother, whose relations
were named Rohinson, a very good family m that
country, and from whom I was called Rohin soi
Krutznaer; hy the usual corruption of words ir.
England, we are now called, nay we call ourselves,
and write our name Crusoe, and so my companions
always called me.
I had two elder hrothers, one of which was lieu-
tenant-colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flan-
ders, formerly commanded hy the famous Colonel
Lock hart, and was killed at the hattle near Dunkirk
against the Spaniards. What hecame of my second
hrother I never knew, any more than my father or
mother did know what was hecome of me.
Be in? the third son of the family, and not hred to
any trade, my head hegan to he filled very early with
ramhling thoughts: my father, who was very ancient,
had given me a competent share of learning, as fax
as house education and a country free-school gene
rally go, and designed me for the law; hut I would
he satisfied with nothing hut going to sea; and my in
nay the commands of my father, and against all th
entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to he something fatal in that
propension of nature tending directly to the life ol
misery which was to he fatal to me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious
and excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my
design. He called me one morning into his chamher,
where he was confined hy the gout, and expostulated
very warmly with me upon this suhject: he asked
me what reason more than a mere wandering incli-
nation I had for leaving my father's house and my
native country, where I might he well introduced, and
had a prospect of raising my fortune hy application
and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He
'told me it was for men of desperate fortunes on one
hand, or of aspiring superior fortunes on the other,
who went ahroad upon adventures, to raise hy enter-
prise, and make themselves famous in undertakings ni
a nature out of the common road; that these things
were all either too far ahove me, or too far helow
me; that mine was the middle state, or what might he
called the upper station of low life, which he had
found hy long experience was the hest state in the
world, the most suited to human happiness, not ex-
posed to the miseries and hardships, the lahour and
sufferings of the mechanic part of mankind, and not
emharrased with the pride, luxury, amhition, and
envy of the upper part of mankind. He told me, I
might judge of the happiness of this state hy this one
think, viz. that this was the state of life which all other
people envied; that kings have frequently htmenteci
toe miserahle consequences of heing horn to great
clination to this led me strongly

the will
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE S
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE S
of the two extremes, hetween the mean and the great;
that the wise man gave his testimony to this as the
just standard of true felicity, when he prayed to have
neither poverty nor riches.
He hid me ohserve it, and I should always find,
that the calamities of life were shared among the up-
per and lower part of mankind; hut that the middle
station had the fewest disasters, and was not exposed
to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part
of mankind ; nay, they were not suhjected to so many
distempers and uneasinesses, either of hody or mind,
as those were, who hy vicious living, luxury, and ex-
travagances, on one hand, or hy hard lahour, want ol
necessaries, and mean or insufficient diet, on the other
hand, hring distempers upon themselves hy the na-
tural consequences of their way of living; that the
middle station of life was calculated for all kind of
virtues and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and
plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune ; that
temperance, moderation, quietness, health, society, all
agreeahle diversions, and ali desirahle pleasures, were
the hlessings attending the middle station of life; that
this way men went silently and smoothly through the
world, and comfortahly out of it, not emharrassed
with the lahours of the hands or of the head, not sold
to the life of slavery for daily hread, or harassed with
perplexed circumstances, which roh the soul of peace,
and the hody of rest; not enraged with the passion
of envy, or secret hurning lust of amhition for great
things; hut ineasycircumstancesslidinggently through
the world, and sensihly tasting the sweets of living,
without the hitter, feeling that they are happy, ana
learning hy every oay's experience to know it more
sensihly.
After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to play the young man, not
to precipitate myself into miseries which nature and
the station of life 1 was horn in seemed to have pro'
rided against; that 1 was under no necessity of seek-
mg my hread; that he would do well for me, ana
endeavour to enter me fairly into the stauon of lift
which he had heen just recommending to me; and
that if I was not very easy and happy in the world
it must he my mere fate or fault that must hinder it
and that he should have nothing to answer for, having
thus discharged his duty in warning me against mea-
aures which he knew would he to my hurt. in a word,
that as he would do very kind things for me if I would
stay and settle at home as he directed, so he would
not have so much hand in my misfortunes, as to give
me any encouragement to go away: and to close all,
he told me I had my elder hrother for an example,
to whom he had used the same earnest persuasions to
keep him from going into the Low Country wars, hut
could not prevail, his young desires prompting him to
run into the army, where he was killed ; and though
he said he would not cease to pray for me, yet he
would venture to say to me, that if I did take this
foolish step, God would not hless me, and I would
have leisure hereaf1er to reflect upon having neglect-
ed his counsel when there might he none to assist in
my recovery.
I ohserved in this last part of his discourse, which
was truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did
not know it to he so himself; I say, I ohserved the
tears run down his face very plentifully, and espe-
cially when he spoke of my hrother who was killed;
and that when he spoke of my having leisure to re-
pent, and none to assist me, he was so moved, that
nc hroke off the discourse, and told me, his heari was
so full that he could do no more.
I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as in-
deed who could he otherwise? and I resolved not to
think of going ahroad any more, hut to settle at home
according to my father's desire. But, alas! a few days
wore it all off; and in short, to prevent any of my fa-
ther's farther importunities, in a few week after I re-
solved to run qmte away from him. However, I did
sol act so hastily neither as nr, first heat of resolution
prompted, hut I took my mother, at a time wnen 1
thought her'a little pleasanter than ordinary, and told
her, snat my thoughts were so entirely hent upon see'
ing the world, that I should never settle to any thing
with resolution enough to go thrown with it, and my
father had hetter give me his consent than force me
to go without it; that 1 was now eighteen years old,
which was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk
to an attorney; that I was sure, if I did, 1 should
never serve out my time, and I should certainly run
away from my master hefore my time was out, and
go to sea; and if she would speak to my father to let
me go one voyage ahroad, if I came home again, and
did not like it, 1 would go no more, and I would pn>
mise hy a douhle diligence to recover that time I had
lost.
This put my mother into a great passion: she told
me, she knew it would he to no purpose to speak to
my lather upon any such suhject; that he knew too
well what was my interest to give his consent to any
such thing so much for my hurt; and that she won-
dered how I could think of any such thing after such
a discourse as I had had with my father, and such kind
and tender expressions as she knew my father had
used to me; and that, in short, if I would ruin my-
self, there was no help for me; hut I might depend I
should never have the:r consent to it: that for her part
she would not have so much hand in my destruction;
and I should never have it to say, that my mother
was willing when my father was not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my father,
yet, as I have heard afterwards, she reported all tha
discourse to him, and that my father, after showing a
great concern at it, said to her with a sigh, "That
hoy might he happy if he would stay at home; hut H
he goes ahroad, he will he the most miserahle wretch
that was ever horn; I can give no consent to it."
It was not till almost a year after this that I hroke
loose, though, in the meantime, I continued ohsti-
nately daaf to all proposals of settling to husiness, and

frequently expostulating with my father and mother
shout their heing so positively determined againss
A'hat they knew my inctination prompted me to. But
heing one day at Hull, where I went casually, and with-
out any purpose of making an elopement that time;
hut I say, heing there, and one of my companions
heing going hy sea to London, in his father's ship, and
prompting me to go with them, with the common al-
t.:rement of seafaring men, viz. that it should cost me
nothing for my passage, I consulted neither father or
mother any more, not so much as sent them word of
it; hut leaving them to hear of it as they might, with-
out asking God's hlessing, or my father's, without any
consideration of circumstances or consequences, and
in an ill hour, God knows, on the first ol Septemher,
1651, I went on hoard a ship hound for London.
Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I helieve,
hegan sooner, or continued longer than mine. The
ship was no sooner gotten out of the Humher, hut the
wind hegan to hlow, and the waves to rise in a most
frightful manner; and, as I had never heen at sea he-
fore, I was most inexpressihly sick in hody, and ter-
rified in mind. I hegan now seriously to reflect upon
what I had done, and how justly I was overtaken hy
the judgment of Heaven for my wicked leaving my
father's house, and ahandoning my duty; all the good
counsel of my parents, my father's tears and my mo-
ther's entreaties, came now fresh into my mind; and
my conscience, which was not yet come to the pitch
of hardness to which it has heen since, reproached me
with the contempt of advice, and the hreach of my
duty to God and my father.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea,
which I had never heen upon he-fore, went very high,
though nothing like what I have seen many times
since; no, nor like what I saw a few days after: hut
it was enough to affect me then, who was hut a young
sailor, and had never known any thing of the matter.
I expected every wave would have swallowed us up,
and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought.
OF RO13UTC0N CRUSOE.
rise more; and in this agony of mind I made many
rows and resolutions, that it it would plea*s God here
Id spare my iife this one voyage, tf ever 1 got once
my foot upon dry land again I would go direc tly home
to my father, and never set it into a ship again while
I lived; that I would take his advice, and m ver run
myself into such miseries as these any more. Now I
saw plainly the goodness of his ohservations ahout the
middle station of life, hr-w easy, how comfortahly he
had lived all his days, ami never had heen exposed to
tempests at sea, or trouhles on shore; and 1 resolved
that I would, like a true repenting prodigat, go home
to my father.
These wise and soher thoughts continued all tic
while the storm continued, and indeed some time af-
ter; hut the next day the wind was ahated, and the
sea calmer, and I hegan to he a little inured to it
however, I was very grave for all that day, heing niss
a little sea-sick still; hut towards night the weathei
dcared up, the wind was quite over, and a charming
fine evemng followed; the sun went down perfectly
dear, and rose so the next morning; and having little
or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upoa
h, the sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that
aver I saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no mora
sea-sick, hut very cheerful, looking with wonder upoa
the sea that was so rough and terrihle the day hefore,
and could he so calm and so pleasant in so little time
ssler. And now, lest my good resolutions should
continue, my companion, who had indeed enticed ma
away, comes to me: "Well, Boh," says he, (clapping
sne upon the shoulder) "how do you do after it? I
warrant you were frighted, wa'n't you, last night, whea,
A hlew hut a capful of wind fn—" A capful do you cafi
k?" said I; "it was a terrihle storm."—"A storm,
you fool you," replied he, "do you call that a storm?
why it was nothing at all; give us hut a good ship
and sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall
of wind as that; hut you're hut a fresh-watei sartor
Boh. Come, let us make a howl of punch, and w•9
forget all that; do you see what charming weather
is now?" To make short this sad part of my story, we
went the old way of all sailors; the punch was made,
8 LIFE AND ADVENTURE
wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my re-
flections upon my past conduct, and all my resolutiono
for my future. In a word, as the sea was returned to
its smoothoess of surface and settled calmness hy the
ahatement of that storm, so the hurry of my thoughts
heing over, my fears and apprehensions of heing swal-
lowed un hy the sea heing forgotten, and the current
of my former desires returned, I entirely forgot the
vows and promises that I made in my distress. 1
found, indeed, some intervals of reflection, and the
serious thoughts did, as it were, endeavour to return
again sometimes; hut 1 shook them off, and roused
myself from them as it *-nte from a distemper, and
applying myself to drinki >- and company, soon mas-
tered the return of those fi*, for so I called them; and
I had in five or six days pH as complete a victory
over conscience, as any yourg fellow that resolved not
to he trouhled with it could desire: hut I was to have
another trial for it still; and Providence, as in such
cases generally it does, resolved to leave me entirely
without excuse: for if I would not take this for a de-
liverance, the next was to he such a one as the worst
and most hardened wretch among us would conies*
hoth the danger and the mercy.
The sixth day of our heing at sea we came into
Yarmouth Roads; the wind having heen contrary, and
Che weather calm, we had made hut little way since
the storm. Here we were ohliged to come to anchor,
and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, via,
at south-west, for seven or eight days, during which
time a great many ships from Neweastle came into
the same roads, as the common harhour where the
ships might wait for a wind for the river.
We had uot, however, rid here so long, hut should
have tided it up the river, hut that the wind Mew inn
fresh; -ad after we had lain four or five days, hlew
very hard. However, the roads heing reckoned as
good as a harhour, the anchorage good, and our ground
tackle very strong, our men were unconoemed, and
not in the least apprehensive of danger, hut spent tire
time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the sea |
hut the eighth day in the morning the wind increased,
snd we had all hands at work to strike our top-masts
and make every thing snug and close, that the ship
migh ride as easy as possihle. By noon the sea went
very high indeed, and our ship rid J&rtcastU in,
shipped several seas, and we thought once or twice
our anchor had come home; upon which our master
•rdered out the sheet anchor; so that we rode with
two anchors ahead, and the cahles veered out to the
hetter end.
By this time it hlew a terrihle storm indeed; and
now I hegan to see terror and amazement in the faces
even of the seamen themselves. The master, though
vigilant in the husiness of preserving the ship, yet as
he went in and out of his cahin hy me, I could hear
him softly to himself say several times, "Lord he
merciful to us r we shall he all lost, we shall he all un-
done !" and the like. During these first hurries I was
stupid, lying still in my cahin, which was in the steer-
age, and cannot descrihe my temper: I could ill re-
assume the first penitence which I had so apparency
trampled upon, and hardened myself against: I thought
tiie hitterness of death had heen past, and that this
would he nothing like the first: hut when the master
himself came hy me, as I said just now, and said we
should he all lost, I was dreadfully frightened : 1 got up
oat of my cahin, and looked out; hut such a dismal
sight I never saw; the sea went mountains high, and
hroke upon us every three or four minutes: when I
could look ahout, I could see nothing hut distress round
u, two ships that rid near us, we found had cut tlw,r
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9
cried out, that a ship which rid ahout a mile ahead
of us was foundered. Two more ships heing driven
from their anchors, were run out of the roads to sea,
at all adventures, and that with not a mast standing.
The light ships fared the hest, as not so much lahour-
ing in the sea; hut two or three of them drove, and
came close hy us, running away with only their sprit
sail out hefore the wind.
Towardsevening the mate and hoatswain hegged the
master of our ship to let them nut away the fore-mast,
which he was very unwilling to do: hut the hoats win
protesting to him, that if he did not, the ship would
founder, ne consented; and when they had cut away
the fore-mast, the main-mast stood so loose, and
shook the ship so much, they were ohliged to cut her
away also, and make a clear deck.
Any one may judge what a condition I must he ht
at all this, who was hut a young sailor, and who had
heen in such a fright hefore at hut a little. But if 1
can express at this distance the thoughts I had ahout
me at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind
upon account of my former convictions, and the having
returned from them to the resolutions I had wickedly
taken at first, than I was at death itself; and these,
added to the terror of the storm, put me in such a con-
dition, that I can hy no words descrihe it. But the
worst was not come yet; the storm continued with
such fury, that the seamen themselves acknowledged
they had never known a worse. We had a good ship,
hut she was deep loaden, and wallowed in the sea,
that the seamen every now and then cried out, she
would founder. It was my advantage in one respect,
that I did not know what they meant hy founder till
I inquired. However, the storm was so violent, thai
I saw what is not often seen, the master, the hoats wan,
and some others more sensihle than the rest, at their
prayers, and expecting every moment when the ship
would go to the hottom. In the middle of the night,
soid under all the rest of our distresses, one of the men
that had heen down on purpose to see, cried out, we
hsd sprung a leak; another said, there was four foot
water in the hold. Then all hands were called to the
nump At that very word my heart, as I thought, died
within me, and I fell hackwards upon the srde of my
hed where I sat, into the cahin. However, the men
roused me, and told me, that I that was ahle t.-, do
nothing hefore, was as well ahle to pump as another;
at which I stirred up, and went to the pump and
worked very heartily. While this was doing, the
master seeing some light colliers, who not ahle to ride
out the storm, were ohliged to slip and run away t*
sea, and would come near us ordered to fire a gun as
a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing what that
meant, was so surprised, that I thought the ship had
hroke, or some dreadful thing happened. In a word,
I was so surprise l, that I fell down in a swoon. As
this was a time when every hody had his own life to
think of, nohody minded me, or what was ttecmne
of me; hut another man stent up to tl e pump, and
thiirsting me aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking
1 had heen dead; and it was a great while hefore I
came to myself.
We worked on; hut the water increasing in the
hold, it was apparent that the ship would founder;
and though the storm hegan to ahate a little, yet as it
was not possihle she could swim till we might run
Into a port, so the master continued firing guns foi
help; and a light ship who had rid it out just ahead
of us, ventured a hoat out to help us. It was with the
utmost hazard the hoat came near us, hut it was im-
possihle for us to get on hoard, or for the hoat to lie
near the ship's side, till at last the men rowing very
heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours, our
men cast them a rope over the stern with a huoy to it,
and then veered it out a great length, which they after
great lahour and hazard took hold of, and we hauled
them close under our stern, and got all into their
hoat . It was to no purpose for them or us, after we
were in the hoat, to think of reaching to their ows
•hip; >o all agreed to let her drive, and only to pull
her in towards shore as much as we could; and our
master promised them, that if the hoat was staved
upon shore he would make it good to their master i
so partly rowing ana partly driving, our hoat went
away to the nothward, sloping towards the shore
almost as far as Winterton-fVess.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour
out of our ship hut we saw her sink, and then 1 un-
derstood for the first time what was meant hy a ship
foundering in the sea. I must acknowledge I had
hardly eyes to look up when the seamen tolil me she
was sinking; for from that moment they rather put
me into the hoat, than that I might he said to go m;
my heart was, as it were, dead within me, partly
with frighth, partly with horror of mind, and the
thoughts of what was yet hefore me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet la-
houring at the oar to hring the hoat near the shore,
we could sec, when our hoat mounting the waves we
were ahle to see the shore, a great many people run-
ning along the shore to assist us when we should come
i ear; hut we made hut slow way towards the shore,
nor were we ahle to reach the snore, till heing past
the light-house at Wmterton, the shore falls off to the
westward towards Cromer, and so the laud hroke ofl
a little the violence of the wind. Here we got in,
and, though not without much difficulty, got all safe
on shore, and walked afterwards on foot to Yar-
mouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were used
with great humanity, as well hy the magistrates of
the town, who assigned us good quarters, as hy par-
ticular meichants and owners of ships, and had
money given us sufficient to carry us either to Lon-
don or hark to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had 1 now had the sense to have gone hack to Hull,
and have gone home, I had heen happy, and my
father, an emhlem ofour hlessed Saviour's parahle, had
even killed the fatted call'for me; for hearing the ship
I—-
I went away in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it
was a great while hefore he had any assurance that I
was not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on now with an ohsti-
nacy that nothing could resist; and though I had se-
veral times loud calls from my reason and my more J
composed judgment to go home, yet I had no power j
tu do it . 1 know not what to call this, nor will I <
orge that it is a secret overruling decree that hurries
us on to he the instruments of our own destruction, 5
even though it he hefore us, and that we push upon it S
with our eyes open. Certainly nothing hut some such 5
decreed unavoidahle misery amending, and which it 5
was impossihle for me to escape, could have pushed S
me forward against the calm reasonings and persua- i
sions of my most retired thoughts, and against two?
such visihle instructions as I had met with in my first 5
attempt. 5
My comrade, who had helped to harden me hefore c
and who was the master's son, was now less forward $
fltan I. The first time he spoke to me after we were i
at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days, j
for we were separated in the town to several quarters; J
1 say, the first time he saw me, it appeared his tone i
was altered, and looking very melancholy, and shak- J
ing his head, asked me now I did, and telling his fa- <
ther who I was, and how 1 had come this voyage only 5
for a trial, in order to go farther ahroad; his father 5
r turning to me with a very grave and concerned tone,
£ s Young man," says he, "you ought never to go to
sea any more; you ought to take this for a plain and
visihle token that you are not to he a seafaring man." >
—" Why, Sir," satd 1, " wih you go to sea no more?" i
"That is another case," said he; "it is my calling,
and therefore my duty; hut as you marie this voyage
for a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has given you
tf what you are to expect if you persist: perhaps this
is a'l hefallen us on your account, like Jonah in the
•hip of Tarshish. Pray, " continues he, " what are
you r and on what account did you go t» sea?" Upon

Chat I told him some tf my story; at the end of which
he hurst out with a strange kind of passion; " What
had I done," says he, " that such an unhappy wretch
should come into my ship? I would not set my foot
in the same ship with ii:ec again for a thousand
pounds." This indeed was, as I said, an excursion of
his spirits, which were yet agitated hy the sense of hit
loss, and was farther than he could have authority U
go. However, he afterwards talked very gravely t•
me, exhorting me to go hack to my father, and m:t
tempt Providence to my ruin; told me I might see a
visihle hand of Heaven against me. "And young
man," said he, "depend upon it, if you do not go
hack, wherever you go, you will meet with nothing
hut disasters and disappointments, till your farther's
words are fulfilled upon you."
We parted soon a Iter; for I made him little answer,
and I saw him no more: which way he went, I know
not. As for me, having some money in my pocket,
1 travelled to London hy land i and there, as well as
on the road, had many struggles with myself, what
course of life I should take, and whether I should
go home, or get to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the hest motions
that offered to my thoughts; and it immediately oc-
curred to me how I should he laughed at among the
neighhours, and should he ashamed to see, not my
father and mother only, hut even every hody else;
from whence I have since often ohserved, how incot>
gruous and irrational the common temper of mankind
is, especially of you.h, to that reason which ought to
guide them in such cases, viz. that they are not asham-
ed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; nor ashamed
of the action for which they ought justly to he esteenv
ed fools, hut are ashamed of the returning, which
only can make them he esteemed wise men.
In this state of life however I remained some time,
ancertain what measure to take, and what course of
life to lead. An irresistihle reluctance continued to
souu home: and as 1 stayed a while, the reman
prance of the distress I had heen in wore off; and ai
that ahated, the little motion I had in rny desires to 4
return wore off with it, till at last I quite laid aside
the thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage.
That evil inBtience which carried me first away
from my father's house, that hurried me into the wild
and indigested notion of raising my fortune; and thai
impressed those conceits so forcihly upon me as to
make me deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties
and even the command of my rather: I say, the same
influence, whatever it was, presented the most unfor-
tunate of all enterprises to my view ; and I went on
hoard a vessel hound to the coast of Africa; or, as
our sailors vulgarly call it a voyage to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune that in all these adven-
tures 1 did not ship myself as a sailor; wherehy,
though I might indeed hare worked a little harder
than ordinary, yet at the same time I had learnt the
duty and office of a foremastman ; and in time might
have qualified myself for a mate or lieutenant, if not
for a master. But as it was always my fate to
choose for the worse, so I did here ; for having money
hi my pocket, and good clothes upon my hack, 1
would always go on hoard in the hahit of a gentle-
man; and so I neither had any husiness in the ship,
O' learnt to do any.
It was my lot first of all to fan into pretty good
company in London, which does not always happen
to such loose and unguided young fellows as I then
was; the devil generally not omitting to lay some
mare for them very early: hut it was not so with met
I first fell acquainted with the master of a ship who
had heen on the coast of Guinea; and who, having had
very good success there, was resolved to go again;
and who taking a fancy to my conversation, which
was not at all disagreeahle at that time, hearing me
say I had a mind to see the world, told me if I would
go the voyage with him I should he at no expense ; I
should he his messmate and his companion ; and ifl
Could carry any thing with me, I should have all the
advantage of it that the trade would admit; and par-
haps I might meet with some encouragement.
t emhraced the offer; and entering into a strict
friendship with the captain, who was an honest and
plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and
carried a small adventure with me, which, hy the dis-
interested honesty of my friend the captain, I increas-
ed very considerahly ; for I carried ahout 40L in such
toys and trifles as the captain directed me to huy.
This 401, 1 had mustered together hy the assistance of
some of my relations whom I corresponded with, and
who, I helieve, got my father, or at least my mother,
to contrihute so much as that to my first adventure.
This was the only voyage which I may say was
successful in all my adventuves, and which I owe 1o
the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain,
under whom also I got a competent knowledge of the
mathematics and the rules of navigation, learnt how
to keep an account of the ship's course, take an ohser-
vation, and, in short, to understand some things that
were needful to he understood hy a sailor i for, as
he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to learn;
and, in a word, this voyage made me hoth a sailor
and a merchant: for I hrought home five pounds nine
ounces of gold-dust for my adventure, which yielded
me in London at my return almost 300/. and this ftl-
led me with those aspiring thoughts which have so
completed my ruin.
Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too t
particularly, that I was continually sick, heing thrown
tnto a violent calenture hy the excessive heat of the
climate; our principal trading heing upon the coast,
from the latitude of 15 degrees north even to the lies
itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my
friend, to my great misfortune, dying soon after his
arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again, and
1 emharked in the same vessel with one who was hii
mate in the former voyage, and had now got the com-
mand of the ship. This was the anhappiest voyage
that ever man made; for though I did nol carry quit*
lOOi. of my new-gained wealth, so that I had 200/ left'
and which I lodged with my friend's widow, who was
very just to me, yet I fell into terrihle misfortunes in
this voyage; and the first was this, viz. our ship mak-
ing her course towards the Canary Islands, or rather
hetween those islands and the African shore, was sur-
prized in the grey of the morning hy a Turkish rover
of Sallee, who grave chase to us with all the sail she
could make. We crowded also as much canvass as
our yards would spread, or our masts cany, to have
got clear; hut finding the pirate gained upon us, and
would certainly come up with us in a few hours, we
prepared to fight; our ship having twelve guns, and
the rogue eighteen. Ahout three in the afternoon he
came up with us, and hringing to hy mistake just
athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as
he intended, we hrought eight of our guns to hear on
that side, and poured in a hroadside upon him, which
made him sheer off again, after returning our fire,
and pouring in also his small-shot from nearly 200 men
which he had on hoard. However, we had not a man
touched, all our men keeping close. He prepared to
attack us again, and we to dwfend ourselves; hut lay-
ing us on hoard the next time upon our other quar-
ter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who imme-
diately fell to cutting and hacking the decks and rig-
ging. We plied them with small shot, half-pikes,
powder-chests, and such like, and cleared our deck
of them twice. However, to cut short this melan-
choly part of our story, our ship heing disahled, and
three of our men killed and eight wounded, we were
ohliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners into
Sallee, a port helonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first
I apprehended; nor was I carried up the country to
the emperor's court, as the rest of our men were, hut
was kept hy the captain of the rover as his proper
prize, and made his sU,-c, heing young and nimhle,
and fit for his husinest At tins surprising change ol
my circumstances, from a merchant to a miserahle
slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed; and now I look-
ed hack upon my father's prophetic discourse to me,
that I should he miserahle, and have none to relieve
me, which I thought was now so effectually hrought to
Btss, that I could not he worse ; that now the hand of
eaven had overtaken me, and I was undone with
out redemption: hut alas ! this was hut a taste of the
misery I was to go through, as will appear in the
sequel of this story.
As my new patron, or master, had taken me home
to his house so I was in hopes that he would take ma
with him when he went to sea again, helieving that it
would some time or other he his fate to he taken hy a
Spanish or Portugal man of war; and that then I
should he set at liherty. But this hope of mine was
soon taken away; for when he went to sea, he left me
on shore to look after his little garden, and to do the
common drudgery of slaves ahout his house; and
when he came home again from his cruise, he order-
•d me to lie in the cahin to look after the ship.
Here 1 meditated nothing hut my escape, and what
method I would take to effect it, hut found no way
that had the least prohahility in it: nothing presented
to 'make the supposition of it rational; for 1 had no-
hody to communicate it to that would emhark with me,
no fellow slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotsman
there hut myself; so that fortwo years, though I often
pleased myself with the imagination, yet 1 never had
the least encouraging prospect of putting it in practice.
After ahout two years an odd circumstance present-
ed itself, which put the old thought of making soma
attempt for my liherty again in my head: my patron
lying at home longer than usul without fitting out his
ship, which, as 1 heard, was for want of money, ha
used constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes
oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's
pinnace and go out into the road a-fishing; and as ha
always took ma and a young Maresco with him to
-ow the hoat, we made him very merry, and 1 provW

very dexterous in catching fish ; insomuch that some
times he would send me with a Moor, one of his
kinsmen, and the youth the Maresco, as they called
him, to catch a dish of fish for him.
It happened one time, that going a-fishing in a stark
ea.m morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we
were not half a league from the shore we lost sight ol
it; and rowing we knew not whither or which way,
we lahoured all day, and all the next night, and when
the morning came we found we had pulled oft- to sea
instead of pulling in for the shore; and that we were
at least two leagues from the shore : however, we got
well in again, though with a great deal of lahour and
some danger; for the wind hejan to hlow pretty fresh
in the morning; hut particularly we were all very
hungry.
But our patron, warned hy this disaster, resolved to
take more care of himself for the future; and having
lying hy him the long-hoat of otfr English ship he had
taken, he resolved he would not go a-fishing any more
without a compass and some provision ; so l:e ordered
she carpenter of his ship, who also was an English
slave, to huild a little state-room, or cahin, in the
middle of the long-hoat, like that of a harge, with a
place to stand hehind it to steer and hale home the
mam-sheet: and room hefore for a hand or two to
stand and work the sails: she sailed with what we call
a shoulder of mutton sail; and the hoom gihed over
the top of the cahin, which lay very snug and low,
and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two,
and a tahle to eat on, with some small lockers to put
in some hottles of such liquor as he thought fit to
. drink; particularly his hread, rice and coffee.
We went frequen,ly out with this hoat a-fishing,and
as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never
went without me. It happened that he had appointed
to go out in this hoat, either for pleasure or for fish,
with two or three Moo res of some distinction in thai
p,ace, and for whom he had provided extraordinarily,
and had therefore sent on hoard the hoat over-night a
larger more of provisions than ordinary; and had or-
dered me to get ready three fusees with powder and
shot, which were on hoard his ship; for that they de-
signed some sport of fowling as well as fishing.
1 got all things ready as he had directed, and waited
the next morning with the hoat washed clean, he•
ancient and pendants out, and every thing to accom-
modate his guests; when hy and hye my patron came
on hoard alone, and told me kji guests had futon'
going, upon some husiness that fell out, and ordered
me with the man and hwv ns usual, to go out with
the hoat and catch then, tome fish, for that his friends
were to sup at his house; and commanded that as
soon as 1 got some fish I should hring it home to his
house; all which 1 prepared to do.
This moment my former notions of deliverance
darted into my thoughts, for now I found I was like
to have a little ship at my command ; and my master
heing gone, I prepated to furnish myself, not for fish-
ing husiness, hut for a voyage; though 1 knew not,
neither did I so much as consider, whither I should
deer; for any way to get out of that place was my
way.
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to
speak to this Moor, to get something for our suhsist-
ence on hoard; for I told him we must not presume,
to eat of our patron's hread; he said, that was true t
so he hrought a large hasket of rusk or hisket of their
kind, and three jars with fresh water, into the hoat
.
I knew where my patron's case of hottles stood,
which it was evident, hy the make, were taken out ol
•ome English prize, and I conveyed them into the
hoat while the Moor was on shorr as if they had heen
there hefore for our master: I conveyed also a great
lump of hees-wax into the hoat, which weighed ahove
half a hundred weight, with a parcel of twine or
thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which
were of great use to us afterwards, especially the
wax to make candles. Another trick I tried upon
him, which he innocently cam* into also; his nana
51
was Ism act, whom they call Muly, or Moley; so I
called to him: "Moley," said 1," our patron's gum
are on hoard the hoat; can you not get a little powder
and shot? it may he we may kill some alcamies (a
fowl tike out curlews) for ourselves, for 1 know ha
keeps the gunner's stores in the ship."—" Yes," says
he, "1'11 hring some ;" and accordingly he hrought a
Ereat leather pouch which held ahout a pound and a
alf of powder, or rather more; and another with
shot, that had five or six pounds, with some hullets,
and put all into the hoat: at the same time 1 had
found some powder of my master's in the great cahin,
with which 1 filled one of the large hottles in the case,
which was almost empty, pouring what was in it into
another; and thus furnished with every thine needful,
we sailed out of the port to fish. The castle, which
is at the entrance of the port, knew who we were,
and took no notice of us: and we were not ahove a
mile out of the port hefore we haled in our sail, and
set us down to fish. The wind hlew from the N.N.C
which was contrary to my desire; for had it hlown
southerly, I had heen sure to have made the coast of
Spain, and at least reached to the hay of Cadiz; hut
my resolutions were, hlow which way it would, I
would he gone from that horrid place where 1 was,
and leave the rest to fate.
After we had fished some time and catched nothing,
for when I had fish on my hook I would not puu
them up, that he might not see them, I said to the
Moor," This will not do ; our master will not he thus
served; we must stand farther off." He, thinking no
harm, agreed, and heing in the head of the hoat set
the sails; and as I had the helm I run the hoat out
near a league farther, and then hrought her to as if I
would fish; when giving the hoy the helm, I stepped
forward to where the Moor was, and making as if I
ssooped for something hehind him, I took him hy sun
prise with my arm under his twist, and tossed him
clear overhoard into the sea; he rose immediately,
for he swam like a cork, and called to me, hegged sa
he taken in, told me he would go all over the worMt
with me. He swam so strong after the hoat, that he
would hare reached roe very quickly, there heing hut
little wind; upon which I stepped into the cahin, and
fetching out one of the fowling-pieces, I presented it
at him, and told him, I had done him no hurt, and if
he would he quiet I would do him none: " But," said
I, "you swim well enough to reach to the shore, and
the sea is calm ; make the hest of your way to shore,
and I will do you no harm ; hut if you come near the
hoat I'll shoot you through the head, for I am resolved
to have my liherty;" so he turned himself ahout,
and swam for the shore, and I make no douht hut
he reached it with ease, for he was an excellent
swimmer.
I could have heen content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the hoy, hut there wa•
no venturing to trust him. When he was gone I
turned to the hoy, whom they called Xury, and said
to him, "Xury, if you will he faithful to me I'll
make you a great man; hut if you will not stroke
your face to he true to me," that is, swear hy Maho-
met and his father's heard, I must throw you into
the sea too." The hoy smiled in my face, and spoke
so innocently, that I could not mistrust him; and
swore to he faithful to me, and go all over the world
with me.
While I was in view of the Moor that was swyns'
a LIFE AND ADVENTURES
ssretching to windward, that they might think me
gone towards the Strait's mouth ; (as indeed any one
that had heen in their wits must have heen supposed
to do) for who would have supposed we were sailed
on to the southward to the truly harharian coast
where whole nations of Negroes were sure to sui
found us with their canoes, and destroy us; where
we could never once go on shore hut we should he
devoured hy savage heasts, or more merciless savagee
if human k ind?
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I
23
•hanged my course, and steered directly south and hy
cast, hending my course a little toward the east, that 1
might keep in with the shore; and having a fair, fresh
gale of wind, and a smooth, quiet sea, I made such
sail that I helieve hy the next day at three o'clock in
the afternoon, when 1 first made the land, I could not
he less than 150 miles south of Sallee; quite heyond
the Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of
any ether king thereahouts, for we saw no people.
Vet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into
their hands, that I would not f .op, or go on shore, or
eome to an anchor; the wind continuing fair till 1
had sailed in that manner five days; and then the
wind shifting to the southward, I concluded also that
if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they also
would now give over; so I ventured to make to the
coast and come to an anchor in the mouth of a little
river, I knew not what, or where; neither what lati-
tude, what country, what nation, or what river; I
neither saw, nor desired to see any people; the princi-
pal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into
this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore
as soon as it was dark, and discover the country; hut
as soon as it was quite dark, we heard such dreadful
noises of the harking, roaring, and howling of wild
•reatures, of we knew not of what kinds, that the poor
hoy was ready to die with fear, and hegged of me not
to go on shore till day. "Well, Xury," said I,
"then I won't; hut it may he we may see men hy
day, who will he as had to us as those lions.
* Then we give them the shoot gun," says Xury,
laughing, "make them run wey." Such English
Xury spoke hy conversing among us slaves. How-
ever, 1 was glad to see the hoy so cheerful, and I gave
him a drain (out of our patron's case of hottles) to
cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was good,
and 1 took it; we dropped our little anchor, and lay
•till all night; I say still, for we slept none; for in
two or three hourrwe saw vast great croatures
%\ LIFS AtfD ADVEftTTUKEb.
Knew noi w-nat to call them) of many sorts, com*
down to the sea-shore and run into the water wallow-
"ng and washing themselves for the pleasure of cool-
ing themselves; and they made such hideous howling^
and veilings, that 1 never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was
I too; hut we were hoth more frighted when we heard
one of these mighty creatures come swimming to-
wards our hoat; we could not see him, hut we might
hear him hy his hlowing to he a monstrous huge and
furious heasi; Xury said it was a lion, and it might
he so for aught I know; hut poor Xury cried to me
to weigh tho anchor and row away: "No," says 1,
"Xury; we can slip our cahle with the huoy to it,
and go off to sea; they cannot follow us far." I had
no sooner said so than I perceived the creature (what-
ever it was) within two oars' length, which some-
thing surprised me; however, I immediately stepped
to the cahin-door, and taking up my gun fired at him;
cpon which he immediately turned ahout, and swam
towa/ds the shore again.
But it is impossihle to descrihe the horrihle noises,
and hideous cries and howlings, that were raised, as
well upon the edge of the shore as higher within the
country, upon the noise or report of the gun, a thine
I have some reason to helieve those creatures had
never heard hefore: this convinced me there was no
going on shore for us in the night upon that coast,
and how to venture on shore in the day was another
question too ; for to have fallen into the hands of any
of the savages, had heen as had as to have fallen into
the hands of lions and tigers ; at least we are equally
apprehensive of the danger of it.
Be thai as it would, we were ohliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint
left in the hoat; when or where to get it, was the
point - Xury said, if I would let him go on shore with
one of the jars, he would find if there was any water,
and hring some to me. I asked him why he would
%o' why I should net go, and Me stay in the hoat/
The hoy answered with so much affection, that marft
me love him ever after. Says he, "If wild mani
come, they eat me, yougower."—"Well, Xury,"
The hoy answered with so much affection, that marft
we will kill them, they shall cat neither of us." So I
gave Xury a piece of rusk hread to eat, and a dram
tut of our patron's case of hottles which I mentioned
hefore; and we haled the hoat in as near the shore at
we thought was proper, and waded on shore; carry
m,r nothing hut our arms, and two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of s:gnt of the hoat, fearing
the coming of canoes with savages down the riven
hut the hoy seeing a low place ahout a mile up the
country, ramhled to it; and hy and hy I saw him
tome running towards me. I thought he was pursued
hy some savage, or frighted with some wild heast, and
I run forward towards him to help him; hut when I
came nearer to him, I saw something hanging over his
shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot,
like a hare, hut different in colour, and longer legs;
however, we were very glad of it, and it was very
good meat; hut the great ioy that poor Xury came
with, was to tell me that ne had found good water,
and seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take
such pains for water, for a little higher up the creek
where we were, we found the water fresh when the
tide was out, which flows hut a little way up; so we
filed our jars, and feasted on the hare we had killed,
and prepared to go on our way, having seen no foot-
steps of any human creature in that part of the coun-
try.
As I had heen one voyage to this coast hefore, J
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and
the ("ape de Verd islands also, lay not far off from
the coast . But as I had no instruments to take a*
ohservation to know what latitude we were in, anr
not exactly knowing, or at least rememhering wha,
femudc they were in, and knew not where to look fat
vol L
I
them, or when to stand off to sea towards them:
otherwise I might now easily have found some of
these islands, but my hope was, that if I stood ah tig
this coast till I came to that part where the English
traded, 1 should And some of their vessels upon theii
usual design of trade, that would relieve and take us
in.
By the hest of my calculation, that place where I
row was, must he that country, which, lying hetween
the emperor of Morocco's dominions and the Negroes^
lies waste, and uninhahited, except hy wild heasts;
the negroes ha- ing ahandoned it, and gone farther
south for fear of the Moors ; and the Moors not think-
ing it worth inhahiting, hy reason of its harrenness;
and indeed hoth forsaking it hecause of the prodigi-
ous numlrer of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furi
otis creatures which harhour there ; so that the Moon
use if for their hunting only, where they go like an
army, two or three thousand men at a time ; and in-
deed for near an hundred miles together upon thii
coast, we saw nothing hut a waste uninhahited coun-
try hy day, and heard nothing hut howlings and
roaring of wild heasts hy night
.
Once or twice in the daytime I thought I saw the
Pico of Tcnerifle, heing the high top of the Mountain
Teneriffe in the Canaries; and had a great mind to
venture out in hopes of reaching thither; hut having
tried twice, I was forced in again hy contrary winds,
the sea also going too high for my l:ttle vessel; so I
resol/ed to pursue my first design, and keep aloij
the shore.
Several times I was ohliged to land for fresh water,
after we had left this place; and once in particular,
heing early in the morning, we came to an anchoi
under a little point of land which was pretty high;
and the tide heginning to flow, we lay still to go
farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more ahout him
than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and tells
oie that we had hest go farther off the shore: for,"
says he, " look yonder lies a dreadful monster on the
•ide of that hillock fast asleep." I looked where he
pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it
was a terrihle great lion that lav on the side of the
shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill that hung
as it were a ittle over him. "Xury," says I, "you
shall go on shore and kill him." Xury looked fright-
ed, and said, "Me kill! he eat me at one mouth
one mouthful he meant: however, 1 said no more to
the hoy, hut had him lie still, and I took our higgest
gun, which was almost musket-hore, and loaded it
with a good charge of powder, and with two slugs,
and laid it down; then I loaded another gun with
two hullets ; and the third, for we had three pieces, I
loaded with five smaller hullets. I took the hest aim
I could with the first piece to have shot him into the
head, hut he lay so with his leg raised a little ahove
his nose, that the slugs hit his leg ahout the knee, and
hroke the tone. He started up growling at first, hut
finding his leg hroke fell down again, and then got up
upon three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that
ever 1 heard. I was a little surprised that I had not
hit him on the head; however, I took up the second
piece immediately, and though he hegan to move oft,
fired again, and shot him into the head, and had the
pleasure to see him drop, and make hut little noise,
out lie struggling for life. Then Xury took heart,
end would have me let him go on shore: " Well, go,"
said I; so the hoy jumped into the water and taking
a little gun in one hand, swain to shore with the
other hand, and coming close to the creature, put the
muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him into the
head again, which dispatched him quite.
This was game indeed to us, hut this was no food;
snd I was very sorry to lose three charges of powder
sml shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to
us. However, Xury said he would have some of
hun; so he comes on hoard, and asked me to give
him the hatchet. "For what, Xury ?" said f, "Me
sut eff his head," raid he. However, Xury could
not cut oft- his head, hut he cut oft- a foot, and hrought
it with him, and it was a monstrous great one.
I hethought myself however, that perhaps the skht
of him might one way or other he uf some value to
ns; and I resolved to take off his skin if 1 could.
So Xury and I went to work with him; hut Xuri
was ntuch the hetter workman at it, for 1 knew very
ill how to do it. Indeed it took us up hoth the whole
day, hut at last we got off the hide of him, and
spreading it on the top of our cahin, the sun effectu-
ally dried it in two days time, and it afterwards
served me to lie upon.
After this stop, we made on to the southward con-
tinually for ten or twelve days, living very sparing
on our provisions, which hegan to ahate very much,
and going no oftener into the shore than we were
ohliged to for fresh water: my design in this was, to
make the river Gamhia or Senegal, that is to say, any
where ahout the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes
to meet with some European ship; and if I did not,
I knew not what course I had to take, hut to seek for
the islands, or perish there among the Negroes, t
knew that all the ships from Europe, which sailed
either to the coast of Guinea or to Brazil, or to the
East Indies, made this Cape, or those islands; and
in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this
single point, either that I must meet with some ship,
or must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution ahout ten days
longer, as I have said, I hegan to see that the land
was inhahited; and in two or three places, as we
sailed hy, we saw people stand upon the shore to look
at us; we could also perceive they were quite hlack,
and stark naked. I was once inclined to have gone
or shore to them; hut Xury was my hetter counsellor,
and said to me, "No go, no go," However, I
hauled in nearer the shore that I might talk to them,
and I found they run along the shore hy me a good
wsy '1 ohserved they had no weapons in their hands,
except one, who had a long slender stick, which
Xury said was a lance, and that they would throw
them a great way with good aim; so I kept at a dis-
tance, hut talked with them hy signs as well as I
could; and particularly made signs for something to
eat; they heckoned to me to stop my hoat, and they
would fetch me some meat. Upon this I lowered the
top of my sail, and lay hy, and two of them ran up
into the country, and in less than half an hour cama
hack, and hrought with them two pieces of dry flesh
and some corn, such as is the produce of their coun-
try ; hut we neither knew what the one nor the othei
was : however, we wore willing to accept it, hut how
to come at it was our next dispute, for I was not for
venturing on shore to them, and they were as much
afraid of us; hut they took a safe way for us all, for
they hrought it to the shore and laid it down, and
went and stood a great way off till we fetched it on
hoard, and then came close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, foi we had
nothing to make them amends; hut an opportunity
offered that very instant to ohlige them wonderfully;
for while we were lying hy the shore came two
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took
it) with great fury from the mountains towards the
sea; whether it was the male pursuing the female
or whether they were in sport or in rage we could not
tell, any more than we could tell whether it was usual
or strange, hut 1 helieve it was the latter; hecause, in
the first place, those ravenouscrcatures seldom appear
hut in the night; and in the second place, we found the
people terrihly frighted, especially the women. The
man that had the lance or dart did not fly from them,
hut the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran
directly into the water they did not seem to offer to
fall upon any of the Negroes, hut plunged themselves
into the sea and swam ahout as if they had come for
their diversion. At last one of them hegan to come
nearer our hoat than at first I expected; hut I ley
ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with all po•
•fhle expedition, and had Xury load hoth the others i
as soon as he came fairly within my reach I fired, and
shot him directly into the head; immediately he
sunk down into the water, hut rose instantly, and
plunged up and down as if he was struggling for life;
and so indeed he was; he immediately made to the
shore; hut hetween the wound, which was his mor
tal hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died just
hefore he reached the shore.
It is impossihle to express the astonishment of these
poor creatures at the noise and the fire of my gun:
some of them were even ready to die for fear, and
fell down as dead with the very terror. But when
they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the water,
and that I made signs to them to come to the shore,
they took heart and came to the shore, and hegan to
search for the creature. I found him hy his hlood
staining the water, and hy the help of a rope, which I
slung round him, and gave the Negroes to hale, they
dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most
curious leopard, spotted and fine to an admirahle de-
gree, and the Negroes held up their hands with admi-
ration to think what it was I had killed him with.
The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire
and the noise of tho gun, swam on shore, and ran up
directly to the mountains from whence they came,
nor could I at that distance know what it was. I
found quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh ol
this creature, so I was willing to have them take it as
a favour from me, which, when I made signs to them
that they might take him, they were very thankful
for. Immediately they fell to work with him, and
though they had no knife, yet with a sharpened piece
of wood they took off his skin as readily, and much
more readily, than we could have done with a knife.
They offered me some of the flesh, which I declined,
making as if I would give it them, hut made signs for
the skin, which they gave me very freely' and hrought
DM a great deal more of their provision, which,
ihough I did not understand, yet 1 accepted; then J

made signs to them for some water, and hold out one
of my jars to them, turning it hottom upwards, to
show [hat it was empty, and that I wanted to have it
filled. They called immediately to some of theit
friends, and there came two women, and hrought a
great vessel made of earth, and hurnt, as I suppose,
in the sun; this they set down for me, as hefore, and
I sent Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them
all three. The women were as stark naked as tin
men.
I was now furnished with roots and com, such as
it was, and water; and, leaving my friendly Negroes,
I made forward for ahout eleven days more, without
offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run
out a great length into the sea, at ahout the distance
of four or fire leagues hefore me; and, the sea heing
very calm, I kept a large offing to make this point,
at length, douhling the point at ahout two leagues
from the land, I saw plainly land on the other side to
seaward; then I concluded, as it was most certain
indeed, that this was the Cape de Verd, and those
the islands, called from thence Cape de Verd Islands.
However, they they were at a great distance, and I
could not well tell what I had hest to do, for if I should
he taken with a fresh of wind I might neither reach
one nor the other.
In thisdilemma, as I wasvery pensive, I stepped into
the cahin and sat me down, Xury having the helm,
when on a sudden the hoy cried out, "Master,
Master, a ship with a sail!" and the foolish hoy was
frighted out of his wits, thinking it must needs he
some of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I
knew we were gotten far enough out of their reach.
I jumped out of the cahin, and immediately saw not
only the ship, hut what she was, viz. that it was a
Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was hound to tin
coast of Guinea for Negroes. But when I ohserved
the course she steered, I was soon convinced they
s/•re hound some other way, and did not design to
come any nearer to the shore; upon which 1 stretched
">t to sea as much as I could, resolving to spexJt with
diem if possihle.
With all the sail I could make, I found I should
not he ahle to come in their way, hut that they would
he gone hy hefore I could make any signal to them;
out after 1 had crowded to the utmost, aud hegan to
despair, they, it seems, saw me hy the help of their
perspective-glasses, and that it was some European
oat, which as they supposed, must helong to some
ship that was lost; so they shortened sail to let me
come up. I was encouraged with this; and as I had
my patron's ancient on hoard, 1 made a waft of it to
them for a signal of distress, and fired a gun, hoth
which they saw, for they told me they saw the smoke,
though they did not hear the gun : upon these signals
they very kindly hrought to, and lay hy for me, and
in ahout three hours time I came up with them.
They asked me what 1 was in Portuguese, and in
Spanish, and in French; hut I understood none of
them; hut at last a Scots sailor, who was on hoard,
called to me, and I answered him, and told him I
was an Englishman, that 1 had made my escape out
of slavery from the Moors at Salee. Then they had
mc come on hoard, and very kindly took me in, and
ail my goods.
It was an inexpressihle joy to me, that any one
would helieve that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed
it, from such a miserahle and almost hopeless con-
dition as I was in, and immediately offered all I had to
the captain of the ship, as a return for my deliver-
ance ; hut he generously told me, he would take no-
thing from me, hut that all I had should he delivered
tafe to me when I came to the Brasils; " For," say
he, "I have saved your life on no other terms than
I would he glad to he saved myself; and it may one
time or other, he my lot to he taken up in the same
condition. "Besides, said he, '' when I carry you to
the Brasils, so great a way from your own country,
if I should take from you what you have, you will he
itarved there, and then I only take away that hfe I
33
have given. No, no, Seignor Inglese," says he, "Mr.
Englishman, I will carry you thither in charity, and
those things will help you to huy your suhsistence
there, and your passage home again."
Ashe was charitahle in his proposal, so he was just
in the performance to a tittle; for he ordered the sea-
men, that none should offer to touch any thing I had:
,hen he took every thing into his own possession, and
cave me hack an exact inventory of them, thai I might
nave them; even so much as my three earthen jars.
As to my hoat, it was a very good one, and that he
saw, and told rne he would huy it of me for the ship's
use, and asked me what I would have for it? 1 told
him, he had heen so generous to me in every thing,
that I could not offer to make any price of the hoat
hut left it entirely to him; upon wh:ch he told me ne
would give me a note of his hand to pay me eighty
pieces of eight for it at Brasil; and when it came
there, if any one offered to give more, he would make
It up: he offered me also sixty pieces of eight more
that f was not willing to let the captain have him,
hut I was very loath to sell the poor hoy's liherty,
who had assisted me so faithfully in procuring my
own. However, when I let him know my reason, he
owned it to he just, and offered me this medinm, that
ne would give the hoy an ohligation to set him free in
;en years, if he turned Christian. Upon this, and
Xury saying he was willing to go to him, 1 let the
captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brasils, and ar-
rived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints'
Bay, in ahout twenty-two days after. And now I
was once more delivered from the most miserahle of
sil conditions of life; and what to do next with my-
self I was now to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can
never enough rememher; he would take nothing nf
me for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the

was loath to take; aot
leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin, which I
had in my hoat, and caused every thing I had in the
ship to he punctually delivered me; and what I was
willing to sell he hought, such as the case of hottles,
two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of hees-
wax, for I had made candles of the rest: m a w ord,
I made ahout two hundred and twenty pieces of eight
of all my cargo; and with this stock I went on si tore
In the lirasils.
I had not heen long here, hut heing recommended
to the house of a good honest man like himself, who
had an inqeino us they call it; that is, a plantation
and a sugar-house; I lived with him some time, and
acquainted myself hy that means with the manner of
their planting and making of sugar; and seeing how
well the planters lived, and how they grew rich sud-
denly, I resolved, if I could get license to settle there,
I would turn planter among them, resolving, in the
mean time, to find out some way to get my money,
which I had left in London, remitted to me. To this
purpose, getting a kind of a letter of naturalization, I
purchased as much land that was uncured as my
money would reach, and formed a plan for my plan-
tation and settlement, and such a one as might he
suitahle to the stock which I proposed to myself to
receive from England.
I had a neighhour, a Portuguese of Lishon, hut
hom of English parents, whose name was Wells, and
m much such circumstances as I was. I call him
neighhour, hecause his plantation lay next to mine,
and we went on very sociahle together. My stock
was hut low, as well as his: and we rather planted
for food than any thing else, for ahout two years.
However, we hegan to increase, and our land hegan
to come into order; so that the third year we planted
some tohacco, and made each of us a large piece of
ground ready for planting cane iu the year to come;
hut we hoth wanted help; and now 1 found, more
tqan hefore, I had done wrong in parting with my
hoy Xury.
But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right,
was no great wonder: I had no remedy hut to go on;
I was gotten into an employment quite remote to my
genius, and direr, ly contrary to the life I delighted in,
and for which I Airsook my father's house, and hroke
through all his good advice; nay, I was coming into
the very middle station, or upper degree of low life,
which my father advised me to hefore; and which if
I resolved to go on with, I might as well have staid at
home, and never have fatigued myself in the world as
I had done; and I used often to say to myself, I
could have done this as well in England amongst my
friends, as have gone five thousand miles off to do it,
among strangers and savages in a wilderness, and at
such distanae, as never to hear from any part of tha
world that had the least knowledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition
with the utmost regret. I had nohody to converse
with, hut now and then this neighhour; no work to
he done, hut hy the lahour of my hands; and I used
to say, I lived just like a man cast away upon same
desolate island, that had nohody mere hur ' hnselfi
But how just has it heen, and how shouL Q men
reflect, that, when they compare their prese... condi-
tions with others that are worse, If aven may ohlige
them to make the exchange, and h» nvinced of their
former felicity, hy their experience; I say, how just
has it heen, that the truly solitary life I reflected on in
an island of mere desolation should he my lot, who
had so often unjustly compared it with the life which
I then led, in which had I continued, I had in all
prohahility heen exceeding prosperous and rich.
I was in some degree settled in my measures for
carrying on the plantation, hefore my kind friend tha
captain of the ship, that took me up at sea, went
hack; for the ship remained there, in providing his
loading, and preparing for his voyage, near three
months; when, telling him what little stock I had lef1
|*Iiind me in Loudon, he gave me tnis friendly and
sincere advice: "Seignor Inglese," says he, for so ha
always called me, " if you will give me letters, and s
procuration here in form to me, with orders to iIm
person who has your money in London, to send your
effects to Lishon, to snch persons as I shall direct, and
in such goods as are proper for this country, I will
hring you the produce of them, God willing, at my
return; hut since human affairs are all suhject to
changes and disasters, I would have you give orders
Uit for one hundred pounds sterling, which you say
is half your stock, and let the hazard he run for the
first; so that if it comes safe, you may order the
rest the same way; and if it miscarry, you may have
tf:e other half to have recourse to for your supply."
This was so wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not hut he convinced it was the
hest course I could take; so I accordingly prepared
letters to the gentlewoman with whom 1 had left my
money, and a procuration to the Portuguese captain,
as he desirer'.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account
of all my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how I
had met with the Portugal captain at sea, the huma-
nity of his hehaviour, and what condition I was now
in, with all other necessary directions for my supply;
and when this honest ca plain came to Lishon, he found
means, hy some of the English merchants there, to
send over, not the order only, hut a full account of
my story to a merchant at I-on don, who represented
it effectually to her; whereupon, she not only deliver-
ed the money, hut out of her own pocket sent the
Portugal captain a very handsome present for his hu-
manity and charity to me.
The merchant in London vesting this hundred
pounds in English goods, such as the captain had writ
fur, scut them directly to him at Lishon, and he
hrought them all safe to me to the Brasils; among
which, without my direction (for I was too young in
my husiness to think of them) he had taken care to
have all sortsof tools, iron-work, and utensils necessary
Cor n/y plantation, and w nicb were of great use to me-
When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
made, for 1 was surprised with joy of it; ann my
good steward the captain had laid out the five pounds
which my friend had sent him for a present for him-
self, to purchase, and hring me over a servant under
hond for six years service, and would not accept of any
consideration, except a little tohacco, which I would
have him accept, heing of my own produce.
Neither was this all; hut my goods heing all Eng
ish manufactures, such as cloth, stuffs, haize, and
things particularly valuahle and desirahle in the coun
try, I found means to sell them to a very great advan-
tage; so that I may say, I had more than four times
the value of my first cargo, and was now infinitely
heytud my poor neighhour, I mean in the advance-
ment of my plantation; for the first thing I did, I
hought me a Negro slave, and an European servant
also; I mean another hesides that which the captain
hrought me from Lishon.
But as ahused prosperity is oftentimes made tlve
very means of our greatest adversity, so was it with
me. I went on the next year with great success in
my plantation: I raised fifty great rolls of tohacco on
my own ground, more than I had disposed of for
necessaries among my neighhours; and these fifty
rolls, heing each of ahove one hundred weight, wens
well cured and laid hy against the return of the fleet
from Lishon. And now, increasing in husiness and
in wealth, my head hegan to he full of projects and
undertakings heyond my reach; such as are indeed
often the ruin of the hest heads in husiness.
Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have hefallen me,
for which my father so earnestly recommended a
quiet retired life, and of which he had so sensihly do.
scrihed the middle station of life to he full; hut other
things attended me, and I was still to he the wilful
agent of all my own miseries; and particularly to in-
crease my fault, and douhle the reflections upon my-
38
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
self, which in my future sorrows I should haveleisois
to make; all these miscarriages were procured hy my
apparent ohstinate adhering toiny foolish inclination
ot wandering ahroad, and pursuing that inclination,
in contradiction to the clearest views of doing mysell
good in a fair and plain pursuit of those prospects
at.J those measures of life, which nature and Provi
dence concurred to present me with, and to make my
duty.
As I had done this in my hreaking away from my
pnrcnts, so 1 could not he content now, hut I must go
jnd leave the happy view I had of heing a rich and
thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a
rash and immoderate desire of raising faster than the
nature of the thing admitted; and thus I cast myseH
down again-into the deepest gulph of human misery
that ever man fell into, or perhaps could he consist-
ent with life and a state of health in the world.
To come then hy just degrees to the particulars of
this part of my story; you may suppose, that having
now lived almost four years in the Brasils, and hegin-
ning to thrive and prosper very well upon my plan-
tation, I had not only learnt the language, hut had
contracted acquaintance and friendship among my
fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants at St
Salvadore, which was our port; and that in my dis-
course among them, I had frequently given them an
account of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea,
the manner of trading with the Negroes theie, and
how easy it was to purchase upon the coast, for tri-
fles, such as heads, toys, kmves, scissars, hatchets
hits of glass, and the like, not only gold-dust, GuW
nea grains, elephants teeth, &c. hut Negroes for the
service of the Brasils in great numhers.
They listened always very attentively to my dis-
courses on these heads, hut especially to that part
which related to the huying Negroes, which was a
trade at that time not only far entered into, hut,
as far as it was, had heen carried on hy the Assientos
or permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and,
engrossed in the puhlic, so that few Negroes were
hought, and those excessive dear.
It happened, heing in company with some mer-
chants and planters of my acquaintance, and talking
of those things very eamestly, three of them came to
me the next morning, and told me they had heen
musing very much upon what I had discoursed with
them of, the last mght, and they came to make
secret proposal to me ; and after enjoining me secrecy,
they told ine, that they had a mind to fit out a ship to
rto Guinea; that tttey had all plantations as well as
and were straitened for nothing so much as ser-
vants; that as it jvas a trade could not he carried on,
hecause they could not puhlicly sell the Negroes when
they came home, so they desired to make hut one
voyage, to hring the Negroes on shore privately, and
divide them among their own plantations; and in a
word, the question was, whether I would go their su-
percargo in the ship, to manage the trading part upon
the coast of Guinea? and they offered me that I
should have my equal share of the Negroes, without
providing any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must he confessed, had
It heen made to any one that had not had a settle-
ment and plantation of his own to look after, which
was in a fair way of coming to he very considerahle,
and with a good stock upon it . But for me, that was
thus entered and estahlished, and had nothing to do
hut go on as I had hegun, for three or four years
more, and to have sent for the other hundred pounds
from England, and who in that time, and with that
little addition, could scarce have failed of heing worth
three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that in-
creasing too; for me to think of such a voyage, was
the most preposterous thing that ever man in such
circumstances could he guilty of.
But I, that was horn to he my own destroyer,
could no more resist the offer, than I could restrain
By first ramhling designs, when my father's good
4
counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I told them 1
would go with all my heart, if they would undertake
to look after my plantation in my ahsence, and would
dispose of it to such as I should direct if 1 miscarried.
This they all engaged to do, and entered into writings
or covenants to do so; and I made a formal will,
disposing of my plantation and effects, in case of my
death, making the captain of the ship that had save
my life as hefore, my universal heir, hut ohliging him
to dispose of my effects as I had directed in my will
one half of the produce heing to himself, and the
other to he shipped to England,
In short I took all possihle caution to preserve my
effects, and keep up my plantation-: had I used half
as much prudence to have looked into my own inter-
est, and have made a judgment of what 1 ought to
have done, and not to have done, I had certainly
never gone away from so prosperous an undertaking,
leaving all the prohahle views of a thriving circum-
stance, and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with
all its common hazards; to say nothing of the reasons
I had to expect particular misfortunes to myself.
But I was hurried on, and oheyed hlindly the dic-
tates of my fancy rather than my reason : and accord-
ingly the ship heing fitted out, and the cargo furnish-
ed, and all things done as hy agreement hy my part-
ners in the voyage, I went on hoard in an evil nour,
the 1st of Septemher, 1659, heing the same day eight
years that I went from my father and mother at Hull,
in order to act the rehel to their authority, and the
fool to my own interest.
Our ship was ahout one hundred and twenty tons
hurden, carrying six guns, and fourteen men, hesides
he master, his hoy, and myself; we had on hoard no
arge cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit
for our trade with the Negroes, such as heads, hits of
glass, shells, and odd trifles, especially little looking,
glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on hoard we set sail, stanJ
tag away to the northward upon our own coast, witi
design to stretch over for the African coast; whe•
they came ahout 10 or 12 degrees of northern latitude,
which it seems was the manner of their course in
those days. We had very good weather, only exces-
sive hot, all the way upon our own coast, till we mads
the height of Cape St. Augustino, from whence keep-
ing farther off at sea we lost sight of land, and steered
as if we were hound for the isle Femand deNoronhat
holding our course N. E. hy N. and leaving those
isles on the east . In this course we passed the line in
ahout twelve days time, and were hy our last ohser
vation in 7 degrees 22 min. northern latitude, when a
violent tornado or hurricane took us quite out of our
knowledge; it hegan from the south-east, came ahout
to the north-west, and then settled into the north-east,
from whence it hlew in such a terrihle manner, that
for twelve days together we could do nothing hut
drive; and scudding away hefore it, let it carry us
whither ever fate and the fury of the winds directed;
and during these twelve days, 1 need not say that I
expected every day to he swallowed up, nor indeed
did any in the ship expect to save their lives.
In this distress, we had, hesides the terror of the
storm, one of our men die of the calenture, and one
man and the hoy washed overhoard; ahout the 12th
day the weather ahating a little, the master made an
ohservation as well as he could, and found that he was
in ahout 11 degrees north latitude, hut that he was 22
* degrees of longitude difference west from Cape St.
Augustino; so that he found he was gotten upon the
coast of Guinea, or the north part of Brasil, heyond
the river Amaxones, toward that of the river Oro-
noque, commonly called the Great River, and he'
gan to consult with me what course he should take,
for the ship was leaky and very much disahled, and
he was going directly hack to the coast of Brasil.
I was positively against that, and looking over the
eharts of the sea-coast of America with him we con-
cluded there was no inhahited country for us to have
*,,ourse to, till we came within the circle of the
Carrihhee islands, and therefore resolveo to stand
away for Barhadoes, which hy keeping off at sea, to
avoid the indraft of the hay or gulf of Mexico, we
might easily perform, as we hoped, in ahout fifteen
days sail; whereas we could not possihly make out
voyage to the coast of Africa without some assist-
ance, hoth to our ship and ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and steer
ed away N. W. hy W. in order to reach some of our
•English islands, where I hoped for relief; hut our
voyage was otherwise determined; for heing in the
latitude of 12 deg. 18 min. a second storm came upon
us, which carried us away with the same impetuosity
westward, and drove us so out of the very way of all
human commerce, that had all our lives heen saved,
as to the sea, we were rather in danger of heing de-
voured hy savages than ever returning to our own
country.
In this distress, the wind still hlowing very hard,
one of our men early in the morning cried out, Land!
and we had no sooner run out or the cahin to look
out in hopes of seeing whereahouts in the world we
were, hut the ship struck upon a sand, and in a mo-
ment, her motion heing so stopped, the sea hroke over
her in such a manner, that we expected we should
all have perished immediately; and we were imme-
diately driven into our close quarters to shelter ui
from the very foam and spray of the sea.
It is not easy for any one, who has not heen in the
like condition, to descrihe or conceive the consterna-
tion of men in such circumstances; we knew nothing
where we were, or upon what land it was we were
driven, whether an island or the main, whether inha
hited or not inhahited; and as the rage of the win!
was still great, though rather less than at first, wc
could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many
minutes without hreaking in pieces, unless the winds
hy a kind of miracle should turn immediately ahout
.
In a word, we sat looking one upon another, and ex-
pecting death every moment, and every man acting
43
accordingly, as preparing for another world, for there
was little or nothtng more for us to do in this ; tnat
which was our present comfort, and all the comfort
ai had, was, that contrary to our expectation, the
snip did not hreak yet, and that the master said the
wind hegan to ahate.
Now 'hough we thought that the wind did a liti'a
ahate, yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand
and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off
we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had no-
thing to do hut to think of saving our lives as well as
we could. We had a hoat at our ste:n, just hefore the
storm ; hut she was first staved hy dashing against tl:e
ship's rudder, and in the next place she hroke away,
and either sunk or was driven off to sea , so there was
no hope from her. We had another hoat on hoa:d,
hut how to get her off into the sea was a douhtful
thing; however, there was no room to dehate, for we
fancied the ship would hreak in pieces every minute,
and some told us she was actually hroken already.
In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of
the hoat and with the help of the rest of the men they
cot her slung over the ship's side, and getting all into
her, let go, and committed ourselves, heing eleven in
numher, to God's mercy and the wild sea ; for though
the storm was ahated considerahly, yet the sea went
dreadful high upon the shore, and might well he rai-
led den icildzec, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed ; for we
all saw plainly, that the sea went so high, that tl•
hoat could not live, and that we should he inevitahly
drowned. As to making sail, we had none, nor, if
we had, could we nave done any thing with it; so we
worked at 'he oar towards the land, though with
heavy hearts, like men going to execution ; for we all
knew, that when the hoat came nearer the shore, the
would he dashed into a thousand pieces hy thr hreach
of the sea. However, we committed our souls to God
iu, the most earnest manner ; and the wind driving
as towards the shore, we hastened our destruction with
our own hands.pullingas well aswecould towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whe-
Jier steep or shoal, we knew not; the only hope that
could rationally give us the least shadow of expecta-
tion, was, if we might happen into some hay or gulf,
or the mouth of some river, where, hy great chance
we might have run our hoat in, or got under the lee of
the land, and perhaps made smooth water. But
there was nothing of this appeared; hut as we made
nearer and nearer the shore, the land looked more
frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed or rather driven ahout a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, moun-
tain-like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly had
us expect the coup-de-grace. In a word, it took us
with such a fury, that it overset the hoat at once ,
and separating us as well from the hoat as from one
another, gave us not time hardly to say O God! foi
we were all swallowed up in a moment.
Nothing can descrihe the confusion of thought which
I felt when I sunk into the water; for though I swam
very well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves
so as to draw hreath, till that wave having driven me
or rather carried me a vast way on towards the shore,
and having spent itself, went hack, and left me upon
the land almost dry, hut half dead with the water 1
took in. I had so much presence of mind as wel! as
4* LIFE AND ADVENTURES
than I expected, I got upon my feet, and endeavoured
to make on towards the land as fast as I could, hefore
another wave should return, and take me up again.
But I soon found it was impossihle to avoid it; for I
saw the sea come after me as high as a great hill, and
as furious as an enemy which 1 had no means oi
strength to contend with; my husiness was to hold my
hreath, and raise myself upon the water, if I could;
and so hy swimming to preserve my hreathing, and
pilot mrself towards the snore, if possihle; my greatest
concern now heing, that the sea, as it would carry m#
a great way towards the shore when it came on,
might not carry me hack again with it when it gave
bnck towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again, huried me at
Once twenty or thirty foot deep in its own hody; and
• could feet myself carried with a mighty force and
swiftness towards the shore a very great way; hut I
held my hreath, and assisted myself to swim still for-
ward with all my might. I was ready to hurst with
Holding my hreath, when, as I felt myself rising up,
so, to my immediate relief, I found my head and hands
shoot out ahove the surface of the water; and though
it was not two seconds of time that I could keep my-
self so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me hreath and
new courage. I was covered ag*iin with water a good
while, hut not so long hut I held it out; and finding
the water had spent itself, and hegan to return, I struck
forward against the return of the waves, and felt
ground again with my feet. I stood still a few mo-
ment* to recover hreath, and till the water went from
me, and then took to my heels, and run with what
strength I had farther towards the shore. But neither
would this deliver me from the fury of tne sea, whirh
came pouring in after me again; and twice more I
was lifted up hy the waves and carried forwards as
hefore, the shore heing very flat.
The last time of these two had well near heen fatal
tn me; for the sea having hurried me along as hefore,
landed me, or tather dashed me against a piece of a
rock, and that with such force, as it left ire senseless,
and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for
th• hlow taking my side and hreast, heat the hreath
as t were quite out of my hody; and had it returned
ftgain immediate'y, I must have heen strangled in the
water; hut I recovered a little hefore the return of
the waves, and seeing I should Itecovered again with
the water, I resolved to hold fast hy a piece of the rock,
and so to hold my hreath, if possihle, till the wave
went hack Now as the waves were not so higli as at
6rst, heing near land, I held my hold till the wave
ahated, and then fetched another run, which hrought
me so near the shore, that the next wave, though it
went over ine, yet did not so swallow ine up as to
carry me away: and the next run I took 1 got to the
main land, where to my great comfort I clamhered
up the clifts of the shore, and sat me down upon tlw
pass, free from danger, and quite out of the reach of
the vn&er.
I was now landed, and safe on shore, and hegan to
look up and thank God that life was saved in a
case wherein there was some minutes hefore scarce
any room to hope. I helieve it is impossihle to ex-
press to the life what the eciasies and transports of
the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say, out
of the very grave; and I do not wonder now at thai
custom, viz. that when a malefactor, who has the hal-
ter ahout his neck, is tied up, and just going to tie
turned off, and has a reprieve hrought to him: i say,
I do not wonder that they hring a surgeon with it, to
let him hlood that very moment they tell him of it,
that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits from
the heart, and overwhelm him:
For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at firss.
I walked ahout on the shore, lifting up my hands
and my whole heing, as I may say, wrapped up in the
contemplation of my deliverance, making a thousand
gestures and motions which I cannot descrihe; reflect-
tng upon all my comrades that were drowned, and
that there should not he one soul saved hut myself;
for, as for them, I never saw them afterwards, or any
sign of them, except three of their hats, one cap, an
two shoes that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when lh*
hreach and froth of the sea heing so hig, I could
hardly see it, it lay so far off, and considered, Lord!
how was it possihle I could get on shore!
After I had solaced my mind v' Ah the comfortahle
part of my condition, I hegan to look round me, to
see what kino of place I was in, and what was next
to he done; and I soon found my comforts ahate,
and that in a word I had a dreadful deliverance; foi
I was wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor any thing
either to eat or drink to comfort mc; neither did I
see any prospect hefore me, hut that of perishing with
hunger, or hein^ devoured hy wild heasts; and that
which was particularly afflicting to me, was, that [
had no weapon either to hunt and kill any creature
for my sustenance, or to defend myself against any
other creature that might desire to k:ll me for theirs;
tn a word, 1 had nothing al:out me hut a knife, a
tohacco-pipe, and a little tohacco in a hox; this was
all my provision, and this threw me into terrihle ago-
nies of mind, that for a while I run ahout like a mad-
man. Night coming upon me, I hegan with a heavy
heart to consider what would he my lot if there were
any ravenous heasts in that country, seeing at night
they always come ahroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that
time, was, to get up into a thick hushy tree like a fir,
out thorny, which grew near me, and where 1 resolv-
ed to sit all night, and consider the next day what
death I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect oj
life. I walked ahout a furlong from the snore, to see
if I could find any fresh water to drink, which I did,
to my great joy; and having drank, and put a little
tohacco in my mouth to prevent hunger, I went to
the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to place
myself so, as that if I should sleep, I might not fell,
and having cut me a short stick, like a truncheon, for
my defence, 1 took up my lodging, and having heen
excessively fatigued, f fell fast asleep, and slept as
comfortahly as, 1 helieve, few could have done in my
condition, and found myself the most refreshed with
it that I think I ever was on such an occasion.
When I waked it was hroad day, the weather clear,
and the storm ahated, so that the sea did not rage and
swell ss hefore; hut that which surprised me most
was, that the ship was lifted off in the night from the
sand where she lay, hy the swelling of the tide, ana
was driven up almost as far as the rock which 1 first
mentioned, where I had heen so hruised hy the dash-
ing me against it; this heing within ahout a mile from
the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to stand
upright still, I wished myself on hoard, that, at least
1 might save some necessary things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree
Hooked ahout me again, and the first thing I found
was the hoat, which lay as the wind and the sea had
tossed her up upon the land, ahout two miles on my
right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore
to have got to her, hut found a neck or inlet of water
hetween me and the hoat which was ahout half a mile
hroad; so I came hack for the present, heing more
'ntent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to find
something for my present suhsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and
the tide ehhed so far out, that I could come within a
quarter of a mile of the ship; and here 1 found a fresli
renewing of my grief: for I saw evidentlv, that if wi:
had kept on hoard, we had heen all safe, that is to)
say, we had all got safe on shore, and I had not heen
so miserahle as to he left entirely destitute of all com-
fort and company, as I now was. This forced tears
from my eyes again; hut as there was little relief in
that, I resolved, if possihle, to get to the ship; so 1
pulled off my clothes, for the weather was hot to ex-
tremity, and took the water; hut when I came to the
ship, my difficulty was still greater to know how to
get on hoard; for as she lay aground, and high out of
the water, there was nothing within my reach to lay
laid of. I swam round her twice, and the second
tine I espied a small piece of a roi,e, which I wonder
td I did not see at first, hang down hy the fore-chains
to low as that with great difficulty I got hold of it,
and hy the help of that rope got up into the fore-castls
•f the ship. Here I found tha) tne snip was hulged,
and had a great deal of water in her hold, hut that she
lay won the side of a hank of hard sand, or rather
earth, and her stem lay lifted up upon the hank, and
her head low almost to the water: hy this means all
her quarter was free, and all that was in that part was
dry ; for you may he sure my firss work was to search
and to see what was spoilea and what was free ; and
first I found that all the ship's provisions were dry
and untouched hy the water; and heing very well dis-
posed to eat, I went to the hread-room and filled my
pockets with hisket, and Die it as I went ahout other
things, for I had no time to lose. I also found some
rum in the great cahin, of which I took a large drain,
and which I had indeed need enough of to spirit me
for what was hefore me. Now 1 wanted nothing hut
a hoat to furnish myself with many titings which I
foresaw would he very necessary to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not
to he had ; and this extremity roused my application
We had several spare yards, and two or three large
spars of wood, and a spare topmast or two in the
ship; I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung
as many of them overhoard as I could manage of
their weight, tying every one with a rope, that they
might not drive away. When this was done I went
down the ship's side, and pulling them to me I tied
four of them fast together at hoth ends as well as I
could, in the form of a raft, and laying two or three
short pieces of plank upon them cross ways, I found 1
could walk upon it very well, hut that it was not ahle
to hear any great weight, the pieces heing too light;
so I went to work, and with, the carpenter's saw 1 cut
a spare topmast into three lengths, and added them to
my raft, with a great deal oflahour and pains; hut
hope of furnishing myself with necessaries encourag-
ed me to go heyond what 1 should have heen ahle to
have done upon another occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to hear any reason-
ahle weight; my next care was what to load it with,
and how to preserve what 1 laid upon it from the su:f
VOL. I
of the sea; hut I was not long considering this: I firs
laid all the planks or hoards upon it that 1 could get,
and having considered well what I most wanted, 1
first got three of the seamen's chests, which I had
hroken open and emptied, and lowered them down
upon my raft. The first of these I filled with provi-
sions, viz. hread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces
of dried goat's flesh, which we lived much upon, and
a little remainder of European corn which had heen
laid hy for some fowls which we hrought to sea with
us, hut the fowls were killed. There had heen some
harley and wheat together, hut, to my great disap-
pointment, I found afterwards that the rats had eaten
or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found several cases
of hottles helonging to our skipper, in which were
some cordial waters, and in all ahove five or six gal-
lons of rack: these I stowed hy themselves, there heing
no need to put them into the chest, nor no room for
them. While 1 was doing this, 1 found the tide hegan
to flow, though very calm, and I had the mortification
to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had
left on shore upon the sand, swim away; as for my
hreeches, which were only linen, and open-knee'd, I
swam on hoard in them and my stockings: however,
this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I
found enough, hut took no more than I wanted for
present use, for I had other things which my eye was
more upon; as, first, tools to work with on shore;
and it was after long searching that I found out the
carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very useful
prize to me, and much more valuahle than a ship*
loading of gold would have heen at that time: 1 got
it down to mv raft, even whole as it was, without
fusing time to look into it, for I knew in general what
h contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowling-pieces in the great
cahin, and two pistols: these I secured first, with some
powder horns, and a small hag of shot, and two old
rusty swards. I knew there were three harrels of
powder in the ship, hut knew not where our punnet
had stowed them; hut with much search I found them,
two of them dry and good, the third had taken water,
those two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now
I thought myself pretty well freighted, and hegan to
think how I should get to shore with them, having
neither sail, nar, or rudder, and the least capful of
wind would have overset all my navigation.
I had three encouragements: 1. A smooth, calm
sea; 2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore; X
What little wind there was hlew me towardsthe land t
and thus, having found two or three hroken oars he-
longing to the hoat, and hesides the tools which were
in the chest, I found two saws, an axe, and a hammer;
and with this cargo I put to sea : for a mile, or there-
ahouts, my raft went very well, only that 1 found it
drive a little distant from the place where I had landed
hefore, hy which 1 perceived that there was some in-
draft of the water, and consequently 1 hoped to find
some creek or river there, which I might make use
of as a port to get to land with my cargo.
As I imagined, so it was: there appeared hefore
me a little opening of the land, and I found a strong
current of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as
well as I could to keep into the middle of the stream;
hut here I had like to have suffered a second ship-
wreck, which, if 1 had, I think verily would have
hroke my heart; for knowing nothing of the coast, my
raft run aground at one end of it upon a shoal, ana
not heing aground at the other end, it wanted hut a
little that all my cargo had slipped off towards thai
end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I
did my utmost, hy setting my hack against the chests,
to keep them in their places, hut could not thrust off
the raft with all tny strength ; neither durst I stir from
the posture I was in, hut holding up the chests with
s11 my might, stood in that manner near half an hour,
in which time the rising of the water hrought me a
little more upon a level; and a little after, the water
•till rising, my raft floated ayain, and I thrust her off
witn tne oar I had into the channel; and then driving
up higher, I at length found myself in the mouth of a
little river, with land on hoth sides, and a strong cur
rent or tide running up. 1 looked on hoth sides for
a proper place to get to shore; for I was not willing
to lie driven too high up the river, hoping in time to
see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to plac*
myself as near the coast as I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore o
the creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty,
guided my raft, and at last got so near, as that, reach-
ing ground with my oar, I could thrust her directly
in; hut here I had liked to have dipped all my cargo
in the sea again; for that shore tying pretty steep,
that is to say sloping, there was no place to land, hut
where one end of the float, if it run on shore, would J
lie so high, and the other sink lower as hefore, that it i
would endanger my cargo again : all that I could do,?
was to wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping
the raft with my oar like an anchor to hold the side
of it fast to the shore, near a flat t.iece of ground,
which I expected the water would flow over; and so
it did. As soon as I found water enough, for my raft
drew ahout a foot of water, I thurst her on upon that
flat piece of ground, and there fastened or moored
her hy sticking my two hroken oars into the ground;
one on one side near one end, and one on the other
side near the other end; and thus I lay till the water
ehhed away, and left my raft and all my cargo safe
on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a
proper place for my hahitation, and where to stow
my goods, to secure them from whatever might hap
pen. Where I was I yet knew not; whether on th•
continent or on an island, whether inhahited or not
inhahited, whether in danger of wild heasts or not
There was a hill not ahove a mile fiom me, which
rose up very steep and high, and which seemed ta
overtop some other hills which lay as in a ridge from
it northward I took out One of the fowling pieces.
and one of the pistols, and an horn of powder, and
thus armed I travelled for discovery up to the top of
that hill, where, aAer I had with great lahour and
difficulty got to the top, I saw my rates to my great
affliction, viz. that I was in an island environed every
way with the sea, no land to he seen, except some
rocks which lay a great way off, and two small islands
less than this, which lay ahout three leagues to the
west-
I found also that the island I was in was harren,
and as I saw good reason to helieve, uninhahited, ex*
cept hy wild heasts, of whom, however, I saw none;
vet I saw ahundance of fowls, hut knew not their
kinds; neither when I killed them could I tell what
was fit for food, and what not. At mv coming hack
I shot at a great hird, which I saw sitting upon a tree
on the side of a great wood—I helieve it was the first
gun that had heen fired there since the creation of the
world. 1 had no sooner fired, hut from all parts of
the wood there arose an innumerahle numher of fowls
of many sorts, making a confused screaming, and cry-
ing every one according to his usual note; hut not
one of them of any kind that I knew. As for the
creature I killed, I took it to he a kind of a hawk, iss
colour and heak resepthling it, hut had no talons or
claws more than common; its flesh was carrion, and
fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came hack to my
raft, and fell to work to hring my cargo on shore,
which took me up the rest of that day; and what to
do with myself at night I knew not, nor indeed wheie
to rest; for I was afraid to lie down on the ground,
not knowing hut some wild heast might devour me;
though, as I afterwards found there was really no need
for those fears.
However, as well as I could, I harricadoed myself
round with the chests and hoards that I had hrought
on shore, and made a kind of a hut for that night's
lodging As for food, I yet saw not which way to
supply myself, except that I had seen two or three
sreatures like hares run out of the wood where I shot
the fowl.
I now hegan to consider, that I might yet get •
peat many things out of the ship, which would he use
jx:l to me, and particularly some of the rigging ano
sails, and such other things as might come to land,
and I resolved to make another voyage on hoard the
vessel, if possihle; and as 1 knew that the first storm
that hlew must necessarily hreak her all in pieces, 1
resolved to set all other things apart, thl I got every
thing out of the ship that I could get. Then I called
a council, that is to say, in my thoughts, whether 1
should take hack the raft; hut this appeared imprac-
ticahle: so I resoived to go as hefore, when the tide
was down, and I did so, only that I stripped hefore I
went from my hut, having nothing on hut a checked
shirt and a pair of ltnen trowsers, and a pair of pumps
on my feet.
I got on hoard the ship, as hefore, and prepared a
second raft; and having had experience of the first, 1
neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard,
hut yet I hrought away several thingr very useful to
me; as first, in the carpenter's stores 1 found two oi
three hags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack,
a dozen or two of hatchets, and ahove all, that most
useful thing called a grindstone; all these I secured,
together with several things helonging to the gunner
particularly two or three iron crows, and two harreli
of musket-hullets, seven muskets, and another fowling-
piece, with some small quantity of powder more; a
large hag full of small shot, and a great roll of sheet
lead; hut this last was so heavy I could not hoist it
up to get it over the ship's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes
that I could find, and a spare fore-topsail, hammock,
and some hedding; and with this I lopded my second
raft, and hrought them all safe on snore to my very
great comfort.
I was under some apprehensions during my ahsence
from the land, that at least my provisions might he
devoured on shore; hut when I csme hack, I fotn d
dc sign of any visitor, only there sat a creature like a
wild cat upon one of the chests, which, when I cauue
towards it, ran away a little distance, and then stood
still; she sat very composed and unconcerned, and
looked full in my race, as if she had a mind to he ac-
quainted with me; I presented my gun at her, hut as
she did not understand it, she was perfectly uncon-
cerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away; upon
which I tossed her a hit of hiscuit, though hy the way
I was not very free of it, for my store was not great:
however, I spared her a hit, I say, and she went to
it, smelled of it, and ate it, and looked as pleased, for
more; hut I thanked her, and could spare no more;
•o she marched oft
Having got my second cargo on shore, though I
was fain to open the harrels of fowder and hring
(hem hy parcels, for they were too heavy, hoing large
Casks, I went to work to make me a Utile tent with
the sail and some poles which I cut for that purpose i
and into this tent I hrought every thing that I knew
would spoil, either with rain or sun; and I piled all
the empty chests and casks up in a circle round the
tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from
man or heast.
When I had done this, I hlocked up the door of the
tent with some hoards within, and an empty chest set
up an end without, and spreading one of the heds
upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my
head, and my gun at length hy me, I went to hed for
the iirst time, and slept very quietly all night, for I
was very weary and heavy, as the night hefore I had
slept little, and had lahoured very hard all day, as well
to fetch all those things from the ship as to get them
on shore.
I had the higgest magazine of all kinds now that
ever were laid up, I helieve, for one man; hut I was
not satisfied still; for whde the ship sat upright in
hat posture, I thought I ought to ge: every thing out
- her thnt I onuld: so every day at low water 1 wvut
A
on hoard, and hrought away something or other; but
particularly the third time I went, 1 hrought away at
much of the rigging aa I could, as also all the small
ropes and rope-twine I could get, with apiece of spare
canvass, which was to mend the sails upon occasion,
and the harrel of wet gunpowder: in a word I hrought
away all the bails first and last, only that I was lain
to cut them m pieces, and hring as much at a time a
I could; for they were no more useful to he sails, ho
as mere canvass only.
But that which comforted me more still, was, that
at last ol all, alter I had made five or six such voyages
as these, and thought I had nothing mare to expect
from the ship that was worth my meddling with; 1
say, after all this, I found a great hogshead of hread,
and three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a hox
of sugar, and a harrel of fine flower; this was surpris-
ing to me hecause I had given over expecting any
more provisions, except what was spoiled hy tlte wa-
ter: i soon emptied the hogshead of that hread, and
wrapped it up, parcel hy parcel, in pieces of the sail*,
which I cut out: and in a word, I got all this safe on
shore also
The next day I made another voyage: and now^
having plundered the ship of what was portahle and
fit to hand out, I hegan with thecahks; and cutting
the great cahle into pieces, such as I could move, I
gut two cahles and a hawser on share, with all the
iron work I could get; and having cut down the sprit
•ail yard, and the mizen yard, and every thing 1 could
to make a large raft, 1 loaded it with all those neavy
goods, and came away: hut my good luck hegan now
to leave me; for tins ratt was so unwieldy and so
overladen, that after I had entered the liule cove wnen
I had landed the rest of my goods, not heing ahle to
guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset, and
threw me and all my cargo into the water. Ai fbt
myself, it was no great harm, for 1 was near the shores
hut as to my cargo, it was great part of it lost, **pa>
eially the iron, which 1 expected would have heen o.
great use to me: however, when the tide was out, I
got most of the pieces of cahle ashore, and some of
the iron, though with infinite lahour; for I was fain
to dip for it ir.to the water, a work which fatigued me
verv much. After this, I went every day on hoard,
and hrought away what 1 could get.
I had heen now thirteen days on shore, and hao
heen eleven times on hoard the ship; in which time
I had hrought away all that one patr of hands could
well he supposed capahle to hring, though f helieve
verily, had the calm weather held, I should have
hrought away the whole ship, piece hy piece: hut pre-
paring the twelfth time to go on hoard, I found the
wind hegan to rise; however at low water I went on
hoard, and though I thought 1 had rummaged the cahin
so effectually, as that nothing more could he found,
yet I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one
of which I found two or three razors, and one pair ol
large scissars, with some ten or a dozen of good kniv s
nOBINSON CRUSOE. 6T
value in money, some European coin, some Bra&il,
•one pieces of eight, some gold, some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. "O
drug!" said I, aloud, "what art thou good for? thou
art not worth to me, no not the taking off of the
rmund; one of those knives is worth ail this hea;i; I
have no manner of use for thee; even remain where
thou art, and go to the hottom as a creature whose
life is not worth saving." However, upon second
thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all this in a
piece of canvass, I hegan to think of making another
raft, hut while I was preparing this, I found the sky
overcast, and the wind hegan to rise, and in a quarter
of an hour it hlew a fresh gale from the shore. It
presently occurred to me, that it was in vain to pre-
tend to make a raft with the wind off shore, and that
it was my husiness to he gone hefore the tide of flood
hegan, otherwise I might not he ahle to reach the shore
at ail: accordingly I let myself down into the water
and swam across the channel which lay hetween the
ship and the sands, and even that with difficulty
enough, partly with the weight of things 1 had alxrut
me, and parly the roughness of the water, for the wind
rose very hastily, and hefore it was quite high water
U hlew a storm.
But I was gotten nome to my little tent, where I
lay with all my wealth ahout me very secure. It hlew
vcrp hard all that night, and in the morning when I
looked out hehold no more ship was to he seen, f
was a little surprised, hut recovered myself with thii
satisfactory reflection, viz. that I had lost no time, nor
ahated no diligence to get every thing out of her that
could he useful to me, and that indeed there was little
left in her that I was ahle to hring away, if I had had
more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or
of any thing out of her, except what might drive on
shore from T:er wreck, as indeed divers pieces of her
afterwards did; hut those things were of small use to
me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed ahout se
curing myself against either savages, if any should ap
pear, or wild heasts, if any were in the island; and I
had many thoughts of the method how to do this, and
what kind of dwelling to make; whether I shoutd
make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth:
and, in short, I resolved upon hoth, the manner and
description of which it may not he improper to give
an account of.
I soon found the place I was in was not for my set-
tlement, particularly hecause it was upon a low moor-
ish ground near the sea, and I helieved would not he
wholesome, and more particularly hecause there was
no fresh water near it; so I resolved to find a more
healthy and more convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation which I
fhund would he proper for me; 1st, Health, and fresh
water, I just now mentioned. 2ndly, Shelter tram the
teat of the sun. 3dly, Security from ravenous crea
hires, whether man or heast. 4thly, A view to the
sea, that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not
lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which I was
not willing to hanish all my expectation yet.
In search of a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a r:sing hill, whose front towards
this little plain was steep as a house-side, so that no-
thing could come down upon me from the top: on
the side of this rock there was hollow place worn a
little way in a like the entrance or door ''f a cave, hut
there was not really any cave or way into the rock
at all.
On the flat of the green, just hefore this hollow place.
I resolved to pitch my tent: this plain was not ahove
an hundred yards hroad, and ahout twice as long, and
lay like a green hefore my door, and at the end of it
descended irregularly every way down into the low
grounds hy the sea-side. It was on the N. N. W. side
of the hill, so that I was sheltered from the heat every
day, till it came to a W. and hy S. sun, or thereahouts,
which in those countries is near the sitting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle hefore
the hollow place, which took in ahout ten yards in its
semi-diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its
diameter, from its heginning and ending.
In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong
stakes, driving them into the ground till they stood
very firm, like piles, the higgest end heing out of the
ground ahout five foot and a half, and sharppened on
the top; the two rows did not stand ahove six inches
from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cahle which I had cut hi
the ship, and laid them in rows one ahove another,
within the circle hetween these two rows of stakes, up
to the top, placing other stakes in the inside, leaning
against them, ahout two foot and a half high, like a
spur to a post; and this fence was so strong, that nei-
tner man or heast coul't gel into itoroverit: this cost
me a great deal of time and lahour, especially to cut
the piles in the woods, hring them to the I lace, and
drive them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to he not hy a
door, hut hy a short ladder, to go over the top: which
ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me: and so
I was completely fenced in, and fortified, as I thought,
from all the world, and consequently slept secure in
the night, which otherwise I could not have done,
though, as it appeared afterward, there was no need
of all this caution from the enemies that I apprehend-
ed danger from.
Into this fence or fortress, with infinite lahour, I
carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition,
and stores, oi which you have the account ahove; and
I made me a large tent, which, to preserve me from
the rains, that in one part of the year are very violent
there, I made douhle, vix. one smaller tent, within,
and one larger tent ahove it, and covered the upper-
most with a lage tarpaulin which 1 had saved among
the sails.
And now I lay no more for awhile in the hed which
I had hrought on shore hut in a hammock, which was
indeed a very good one, and helonged to the mate oi
the ship.
Into this tent I hrought all my provisions, and every
thing that would spoil hy the wet; and having thus
enclosed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which
till now I had left open, and so passed and repassed,
as I said, hy a ehort ladder.
When I had done this, I hegan to work my way in-
to the rock, and hringing all the earth and stones that
I dug down, out through my tent, I laid them up with-
in my fence in the nature of a terrace, that so it rais-
ed the ground within ahout a foot and a half, and
thus I made me a cave just hehind my tent, whir.h
served me like a cellar to my house.
It cost me much lahour and many days, hefore all
these things were hrought to perfection, and therefore
I must go hack to some other things which took up

some of my thoughts. At the same time it happened,
after I had laid my scheme for the setting up my
tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain fall
ing from a thick dark cloud, a sudden flash of light
ning happened, and after that a great clap of thunder,
as is naturally the effect of it. I was not so much
surprised with the lightning, as I was with a thought
which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning
itself: O my powder! my very heart sunk within me,
when I thought, that at one hlast all my powder might
he destroyed: on which, not my defence only, hut
the providing me of food, as 1 thought, entirely de-
pended: 1 was nothing near so anxious ahout my
own danger ; though, had the powder took fire, I had
never known who had hurt me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that, after
the storm was over, I laid aside all my works, my
huilding, and fortifying, and applied myself to make
hags and hoxes to separate the powder, and to keep
it a little and a little in a parcel, in hope, that, what-
ever might come, it might not all take fire at once,
and to keep it so apart, that it should not he possihle
to make one part fire another. I finished this work
in ahout a fortnight; and I think my powder, which
in all was ahout two hundred and forty pounds
weight, was divided in not less than a hundred par-
cels. As to the harrel that had heen wet, I did not
apprehend any danger from that, so I placed it in my
new cave, which in my fancy I called my kitchen;
and the rest I hid up and down in holes among the
rocks, so that no wet might come to it, marking very
carefully where I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went
Wit once at least every day with my gun, as well to
divert myself, as to see if l could ki1. any thine fit fi.
food, and as nrar as I could to acquaint myself with
what the inland produced. The first time I went out
I preseirlv discovered that there were goats in the
island, which wsia a ereat satisfaction to me; hut then
't was attended with this misfortue to me, viz. that
they were so thy, ho suhtle, and to swift of foot, that
it was the most difficult thing in the world to come at
them. But I was not discouraged at this, not douht-
tn- hut I might now and then shoot one, as it
sunn happened; for after 1 had found their haunts a
little, I laid wait in this manner for them : I ohserved,
if Irtoy saw me in the vallics, though they were upon
the rocks, they would run away as in a terrihle fright;
hut if they were feeding in the vallies, and 1 was
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me; from
w hence I concluded, that hy the position of theis
optics, their sight wasso directed downward, that they
did not readily see ohjects that were ahove them; so
afterward I took this method; 1 always climhed the
rucks first to get ahove them, and then had frequent
ly a fair mark. The first shot I made among these
creatures 1 killed a she-goat, which had a little kid
hy her which she gave suck to, which grieved me
heartily; hut when the old one fell, the kid stood
stock still hy her till I came and took her tin; and not
only so; hut when I carried the old one with me upon
my shoulders, the Aid followed me quite to my en-
closure; upon which I laid down the dam, and took
the kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, iu
hopes to have hred it up tame ; hut it woula not eat;
so I was forced to kill it, and eat it inyself. These
twa supplied me with flesh a great while, for 1 ate
sparingty, and saved my provisions (my hread espe-
cially) as much as possihly I could.
Having now fixed my hahitation, I found it ahso
lutelv necessary to provide a place to make a fire in,
and fuel to hum; and what I did for that, as also
how 1 enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I
made, I shall give a full account of in its place; hut
1 must first give some little account of myself, and of
my thoughts ahout living, which it may well he sup-
posed were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as I
was not cast away upon that island without heing
driven, as is satd, hy a violent storm quite out of th•
course of our intendea voyage, and a great way, viz.
some hundreds of leagues out of the ordinary cour•e
of the trtde of mankind, I had great reason to const
der it as a determination of Heaven, that in this de-
solate place, and in this desolate manner, I should
end my life. The tears would run plentifully down
my face when I made these reflections; and some-
times I would expostulate with myself, why Provi-
dence should thus completely ruin his creatures, and
render them so ahsolutely miserahle, so without help
ahandoned, so entirely depressed, that it could hardly
he rational to he thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to
Check these thoughts, and to reprove me ; and parti-
cularly one day, walking with my gun in my hand hy
the sea-side, 1 was very pensive upon the suhject of
my present condition, when reason, as it were, ex-
postulating with me t'other way, thus: "Well, you
are in a desolate condition, 'tis true, hut pray remem-
her, where are the rest of you? Did not you come
eleven of you into the hoat? Where are the ten ? Why
were they not saved and you lost? Why were you
singled out? Is it hetter to he here or there f' And
then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to he consi-
dered with the good that is in them, and with what
tvorse attended them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was fur-
nished for my suhsistence, and what would have heen
my case if it had not happened, which was a hun-
dred thousand to one, that the ship floated from the
place where she first struck, and was driven so near
the shire that 1 had time to get all these things out of
her. What would have heen my case, if I had heen
to have lived in the condition in which I at first came
on shore, without necessaries of life, or necessaries to
supply and procure them? "particularly," said I,
lotid (though to myself), "what should I have done
w'thoui a gun, without ammunition, without any tools
to make any thing, or to work with ; without j lot lies,
bedding, a tent, or any manner of covering ?" and
64
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
chat now I had all these to a sufficient quantity, and
was in a fair way to provide myself in such a man-
ner, as to live without my gun when my ammunition
was spent; so that I had a tolerable view of suhsist-
ing, without any want, as long as I lived; for 1 con-
sidered from the heginning how 1 should provide for
the accidents that might happen, and for the time
hat was to come, even not only after my ammuni
ion should he spent, hut even after my health o
ucngth should decay.
I confess I had not entertained any notion of my
ammunition heing destroyed at one hlast, 1 mean my
powder heing hlown up hy lightning, and this ma le
the thoughts of it so surprising to me when it light
eucd and thundered, as I ohserved just now.
And now, heing ahout to enter mto a melancholy
relation of a scene of silent life, such perhaps as was
never heard of in the world hefore, I shall take it
from its heginning, and continue it in its order, ll
was, hy my account, the 30th of Septemher, when, in
the manner as ahove said, I first set foot upon this
horrid island, when the sun heing, to as, in its autum-
nal equinox, was almost just over my head, for I
reckoned myself, hy ohservation, to he in the latitude
of 9 degrees 22 minutes north of the line.
After I had heen there ahout ten or twelve days, it
came into my thoughts, that I should lc se my reckon-
ing of time for want of hooks, and pen and ink, and
tfiould even forget the sahhath days from the working
days ; hut to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon
a large post, in capital letters, and making it into a
great cross, I set it up on the shore where I first land-
ed, viz " 1 came on shore here on the 30th of Sep-
temher 1659." Upon the sides of this square post, I
cut every day a notch with my knife, and every se-
venth notch was as long again as the rest, and every
first day of the month as long again as that long one;
and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and
yearly reckoning of time.
In the next place we are to ohserve, that among
tne many things which I hrought out of the ship hi the
several voyages, which, as ahove mentioned, 1 marie
to it, I got several things of less value, hut not all less
useful to me, which I omitted setting down hefore,
as in particular, pens, ink, and paper, several parcels
in the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenters keep-
ing, three or four compasses, some mathematical in-
struments, dials, perspectives, charts, and hooks of
navigation ; all which 1 huddled together, whether I
night want them or no. Also I found three very good
Bihles, which came to me in my cargo from England,
and which I had packed up among my things; soma
Portuguese hooks also, and among them two or three
popish prayer-hooks, and several other hooks; all
which I carefully secured. And 1 must nos forget,
that we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of whoso
eminent history I may have occasion to say something
In its place: for I carried hoth the cats with me; and
as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself,
and swam on shore to me the day after I went on
shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to
me many years; I wanted nothing that he could fetch
me, nor any company that he could make up to me;
1 only wanted to have him talk to me, hut that hs
could not do. As 1 ohserved hefore, I found pen.
Ink, and paper, and 1 hushanded them to the utmost;
and I shall show, that while my ink lasted, 1 kept
things very exact; hut after that was gone I could not,
for f could not make any ink hy any means that 1
could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together; and
of these, this of ink was one, as also spade, pickaxe,
and shovel, to dig or remove the earth ; needles, pins,
and thread. As for linen, I soon leamt to want that
without much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on
heavily, and it was near a whole year hefore I had
entirely finished my little pale or surrounded hahita-
tion; the piles or stakes, whtch were as heavy as 1
could well lift, were a long time in cutting and pre
paring in the woods, and more hy far in hringing
home; so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting
auH hringing home one of those posts, and a third day
in driving it into the ground; for which purpose I
got a heavy piece of wood at first, hut at last hethought
myself of one of the iron crows, which however,
though 1 found it, yet it made driving those posts or
piles very lahorious and tedious work.
But what need I have heen concerned at the terii-
ousuess of any thing 1 had to do, seeing I had time
enough to do it in ? Nor had I any other emplr yment
if that had heen over, at least that 1 could foresee,
except the ranging the island to seek for iood, which
I did more or less every day.
I now hegan to consider seriously my condition,
and the circumstance I was reduced to, and I drew
up the state of my affairs in writing, not so much to
leave them to any that were to come after me, for I
was like to have hut few heirs, as to deliver my
thoughts from daily poring upon them, and afflicting
my mind ; and as my reason hegan now to master my
despondency, 1 hegan to comfort myself as well as I
could, and tn set the ^ood against the evil that i might
have something to distinguish my case from worse;
and I stated it very impartially, like dehtor and cre-
ditor the comforts I enjoyed against the miseries I
suffered, thus
Evil.
I am cast upon a horri-
hle desolate island, void
of all hope of recovery.
I am singled out and
separated, as it were,
fiom all the world, to he
/"serahle.
Good.
But I am alive, and
not drowned, as all my
ship's company was.
Hut I am singled out
too from all the ship's
crew to he spared from
death; and He that mira-
culously saved me firon
death, can deliver me
from this condition

Evil
.
1 am divided from
mankind, a solitaire, one
hanished from human so-
ciety.
1 have not clothes to
covet me.
I am without any de-
fence or means to resist
any violence of man or
1 have no soul to speak
to, or relieve me.
Good.
But t am not starvso
and perishing on a Dar-
ren place, affording no
sustenance.
But I am in a hot cli-
mate, where, if I had
clothes I could hardly
wear them.
But I am cast on an
island where I see no
wild heasts to hurt me,
as 1 saw on the coast of
Africa; and what if I
had heen shipwrecked
there?
But God wonderfully
sent the ship in near
enough to the shore, that
I have gotten out so many
necessary things as wiil
either supply my wants,
or enahle me to supply
myself even as long as 1
live.
Upon the whole, here was an undouhted testimony,
•hat there was scarce any condition in the world so
miserahle, hut there was something negative or some-
thing positive to he thankful for in it; and let this
stand as a direction from the experience of the most
miserahle of all conditions in this world, that we may
always find in it something to comfort ourselves from,
and to set, in the description of good and evil, on the
credit side of the account.
Having now hrought my mind a little to relish my
condition, and given over looking out to sea, to see
If I could spy a ship; I say, giving over these things,
I hegan to apply myself to accommodate my way of
living, and to make things as easy to tt:e as I could
I have already d• scrihed my hahitation, which wat
a tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a
strong pale "f posts and cahles : hut I might now ra-
ther call it a wall, for I raised a kind of wall up against
it of turfs, ahout two foot thick on the outside; and
after some time, I think it was a year and half, I
raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock, and thatch-
ed or covered it with houghs of trees, and such things
as I could get to keep out the rain, which I found at
some times of the year very violent.
I have already ohserved how I hrought all my goods
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made
hehind me: hut I must ohserve too that at first this
was a confused heapof goods, which as they lay in no
order, so they took up all my place: 1 had no room
to turn myself; so I set myself to enlarge my cave,
and work farther into the earth; for it was a loose
sandy rock, which yielded easily to the lahour I he-
stowed on it; and so when I found I was pretty sals
as to heasts of prey, I worked sideways to the right
hand into the rock ; and then, turning to the right
again, worked quite out, and made me a door to
come out, on the outside of my pale or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were
a hack-way to my tent and to my storehouse, hut
gave me room to stow my goods.
And now I hegan to apply myself to make such
necessary things as I found I most wanted, particut-
arly a chair and a tahle; for without these I was not
*hle to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world ; 1
could not write or eat, oi do several things with so
much pleasure without a tahle.
So I went to work ; and here I must needs ohserve*
hat as reason is the suhstance and original of the ma-
thematics, so hy stating and squaring every thing hy
reason, and hy making the most rational judgment ol
titings, every man may he in time master of every
mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in my life,
and yet in time, hy lahour, application, and contriv-
ance,l found at last that I wanted nothing hut 1 could
have made it, especially if I had had tools; however,
1 made ahundance of things, even without tools, and
some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet,
which perhaps were never made that way hefore, and
that with infinite lahour: for example, if I wanted a
hoard, I had no other way hut to cut down a tree, set
it on an edge hefore me, and hew it flat on either side
with my axe, till I had hrought it to he as thin as a
piank, and then duh it smooth with my adze. It is
true, hy this method I could make hut one hoard out
of a whole tree; hut this I had no remedy for hut
patience, any more than I had for the prodigious
deal of time and lahour which it took me up to make
a plank or hoard: hut my time or lahour was little
worth, and so it was as well employed one way as
another.
However, I made me a tahle and a chair, as I oh-
served ahove, in the first place; and this I did out of
the short pieces of hoards that I hrought on my raft
from the ship: hut when I had wrought out some
hoards, as ahove, I made large shelves of the hreadth
of a foot and a half one over another, all along one
aide of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-
work, and in a word, to separate every thing at large
In their places, that I might come easily at them. I
knocked pieces in the wall of the tock to hang my
guns and all things that would hang up.
So that, had my cave heen to he seen, it looked
like a general magazine of all necessary things; and
I had every thing so ready at my hand, that it was a
§rent pleasure to me to see all my goods in such os-
er, and especially to find my stock of all necessa-
ries so great.
And now it was that I hegan to keep a journal of
every day's employment; for indeed at first 1 was in
too much a hurry; and not only hurry as to lahour,
hut in too much discomposure of mind, and my
journal would have heen full of many dull things
For cxatnp n I must have said thus: Sept. the 30th,
after I got to shore, and had escaped drowning, in
stead of heing thankful to God for my deliverance,
having first vomited with the great qi.antity of salt
waier which was gotten into my stomach, and reco-
vering myself a little, I ran ahout the shore, wringing
my hands, and heating my head and face, exclaiming
at my misery, and crving out, I was undone, undone;
till tired and faint 1 was forced to lie down on the
ground to repose, hut durst not sleep for fear of he-
ing devoured.
Some days after this, and after I had heen en hoard
the ship, and got all that I could out of her, yet I
could not forhear getting up to the top of a little
mountain, and lookmg out to sea in hopes of seeing a
ship; than fancy at a vast distance I spied a sail;
f(lease m5self with the hopes of it; and then after
noking steadily till I was almost hlind, lose it quite,
and sit down and weep like a child, and thus in-
crease my misery hy my folly.
But having gotten over these things in some mea-
sure, and having settled my household-stuff and ha-
hitation, made me a tahle and a chair, and all as
handsome ahout me as 1 could, 1 hegan to keep my
journal, ol which I shall here give you the copy
(though in it will he told all these particulars over
again) as long as it lasted ; for having no more ink, I
wa» forced to leave °i oft
THE JOURNAL.
Seplemher 30, 1659.
1POOR miserahle Ro'iinson Crusoe, heing ship
wrecked, during a dreadful storm in the offing,
came on shore on this dismal unfortunate island,
which I called the Island of Despair; all the rest of
the ship's company heing drowned, and myself aW
most dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in affiictin» mvsell
•t the dismal circumstances 1 was orournt to ,rm
had neither food, house, clothes, weapon, or place to
fly to, and in despair of any relief, saw nothing hut
death he lore me, either that 1 should he devc ured hy
wild heasts, murdered hy savages, or starved to death
fur want of food. At the approach of night 1 slept
in a tree, for fear of wild creatures, hut slept soundly,
though it rained all night
.
Octoher 1. In the moming I saw, to my great sun
prise, the ship had floated with the high tide, and waa
driven on shore again much nearer the island ; which
as it was some comfort on one hand, for seeing hei
sit upright, and not hroken to pieces, I hoped, if the
wind ahated, I might get on hoard, and get soma
food and necessaries out of her for my relief; so on
the other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my
comrades, who I imagined, if we had all staid on
hoard, might have saved the ship, or at least that they
would not have heen all drowned, as they were ; and
that, had the men heen saved, we might perhaps have
huilt us a hoat out of the ruins of the ship, to have
carried us to some other part of the world. I spent
great part of this day in perplexing myself on these
titings; hut at length, seeing the ship almost dry, 1
went upon the sand as near as I could, and then
swam on hoard. This day also it continued raining,
though with no wind at all.
From the 1st of Octoher to the 24th. All these
days entirely spent in many several voyages to get all
I could out of the ship, which I hrought on shore,
every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain also ia
these days, though with some intervals of fair wea-
ther: hut, it seems, this was the rainy season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had
got up uI»n it; hut heing in shoal water, and thfJ
things heing chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them
when the tide was out.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some
gusts of wind; during which time the ship hroke ia
pieces, the wind hlowing a li.'tle harder than hefore,
h^id was no more to he seen, except the wreck of h*i»
and that only at low water. I spent this day *n
covering and scouring the goods which I had saveo\
that rain might not spoil them.
Ocl 26. 1 walked ahout the shore almost all day
to find out a place to fix my hahitation, greatly con-
cerned to secure myself from any attack in the night,
either from wild heasts or men. Towards night 1
fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and marked
out a semicircle for my encampment, which I resolv-
ed to strengthen with a work, wall, or fortification
made of douhle piles, lined within with cahle, and
without with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th I worked very hard in
carrying all my goods to my new hahitation, though
some part of the time it rained exceeding hard.
The 31st in the morning 1 went out into the island
with my gun, to see for some food, and discover the
country; when I killed a she-goat, and her kid fol-
lowed me home, which I afterwards killed also, he-
cause it would not feed.
Novemher 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and
lay there for the first night, making it as large as I
could with stakes driven in to swing my hammock
upon.
Nov, 2. 1 set up all my chests and hoards, and the
pieces of timher which made mv rafts, and with them
formed a fence round me, a little "within the place 1
had marked out for my fortification.
Nov. 3 I went out with my gun, and killed two
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the
afternoon went to work to make me a tahle.
Nov. 4. This morning I hegan to order my times of
work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and
Ime of diversion; viz. every morning I walked out
with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain,
then employed myself to work till ahout eleven
o'clock, then ate what I had to live on, and from
twelve to two 1 lay down to sleep, the weather hemg
excessive hot, and then m the evening to work again
«i» working part of this day and of the next were
wholly employed in making my tahle, for I was yet
out a very sorry workman, though time and necessity
made me a complete natural mechanic soon after, as
. helieve it would do any one else.
Nov. 5. This day went ahroad with my gun and
my dog, and killed a wild cat, her skin pretty soft,
1> t her flesh good for nothing, every creature I killed
took off the skins and preserved them. Coming
ack hy the sea-shore I saw many sorts of sca-fowls
which 1 did not understand; hut was surprised n\A
almost frighted with two or three seals, which, while
I was gazing at, not well knowing what they were,
got into the sea, and escaped me for that time.
Nov. 6. After my morning walk I went to work
with my tahle again, and finished it, though not to my
liking; nor was it long hefore I leamt to mend it.
Nov. 7. Now it hegan to he settled fair weather.
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the
llth was Sunday), I took wholly up to make me a
chair, and with much ado hrought it to a tolerahle
shape, hut never to please me: and even in the making
1 pulled it in pieces several times. JVote, I soon neg-
Iscted my keeping Sundays, for omitting my mark for
them on my post, I forgot which was which.
Nov. 13. This day it rained, which refreshed me
exceedingly, and cooled the earth, hut it was arcom-
panicd with terrihle thunder and lightning, which
frighted me dreadfully for fear of my powder: as
soon as it was over I resolved to separate my stock of
powder into as many little parcels as possihle, that
it might not he in danger.
Nov, 14,15,16. These three days I spent in making
Ule square chests or hoxes, which might hold ahout
pound, or two pound, at most, of powder; and so
utting the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure
nd remote from one another as possihle. On ono
of those three days I killed a large hird that was
good to eat, hut I knew not what to call it.
Nov. 17. Ti is day I hegan to dig hehind my tent
mto the rock, to make room for my farther conveni. ,[
ency, iVote, Three things I wanted exceedingly for I
this work, viz. a pickaxe, a shovel, and a wheel-har- 5
row or Basket; so I desisted from my work, and he- 3
gen to consider how to supply that want, and make 5
me .ome tools : as for a pickaxe, I made use of the'
hon crows, which were proper enough, though j!
heavy; hut the next thing was a shovel or spade i
this was so ahsolutely necessary, that indeed I could
do nothmg effectually without it; hut what kind of
one to make I knew not
.
Nov. 18. The next day in searching the woods I
found a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the
Brasils they call the inn tree, for its exceeding hard-
ness : of this, with great lahour and almost spoiling
my axe, I cut a piece, and hrought it home too with
difficulty enough, for it was exceeding heavy. 5
The excessive hardness of the wood, and having"
no other way, made me a long while upon this ma- <
chine; for I worked it effectually hy little and little?
into the form of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly j!
shaped like ours in England, only that the hroad par t £
having no iron shod upon it at hottom, it would not <
last me so long; however, it served well enough for $
the uses which I had occasion to put it to; hut never 5
was a shovel, I helieve, made after this fashion, or s
so long a making.?
1 was still deficient, for I wanted a hasket or a 5
wheel-harrow; a hasket I could not make hy any 5
means, having no such things as twigs that would <
hend to make wicker-ware, at least none yet found >
out; and as to a wheel-harrow, I fancied I could make \
all hut the wheel, hut that 1 had no notion o£ neither \
did 1 know how to go ahout it; hesides, I had no pos-?
sihle way to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle?
or axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave it over; and 5
so for carrying away the earth which I dug out of the <
cave, I made me a thing lik» * hod which the lahour- j
ers carry mortar in, when thrr serve the hricklayers. 5
This was not so difficult t* me as the making the \

shovel; and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt
which I made in vain to make a wheel-harrow, took
me up no loss than four days, I mean always except-
mg my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom
failed; and very seldom failed also hringing home
something to eat
.
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still,
hecause of my making these tools, when they wer
finished I went on, and working every day, as my
strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days en-
tirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it
might hold my goods commodiously.
JVbfc, During all this time, I worked to make this
room or cave spacious enough to accommodate me as
a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room,
and a cellar: as for my lodging, I kept to the tent,
except that sometimes in the wet season of the year,
it rained so hard that I could not keep myself dry,
which caused me afterwards to cover all my place
within my pale with long poles in the form of rafters,
leaning against the rock, and load them with flags
and large leaves of trees like a thatch.
Dec. 10. 1 hegan now to think my cave or vault
finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made ii
too large) a great quantity of earth fell down from the
top and one side, so much that in short it frighted me,
and not without reason too; for if I had heen under
it I had never wanted a gravedigger. Upon this dis-
aster I had a great deal of work to do over again ; for
1 had the loose earth to carry out, and, which was of
more importance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that
1 might he sure no more would come down.
Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it accord-
ingly, and got two shores or posts pitched upright to
the top, with two pieces of hoards across over each
post; this I finished the next day; and setting more
posts up with hoards, in ahout a week more I had the
roof secured; and the posts, standing in rows, served
me for partitions to part off my house.
Dec. 17. From this day to the twentieth I placed
shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts to hang I
every thing up that could he hung up: ar d now I 5
hegan to he in some order within doors. >
Dec. 20. Now i carried every thing into the cave, \
and hegan to furnish my house, and set up soma 5
76 LIFE AND ADVENTURES
u|Kin; hut hoards hegan to he very scarce with me: £
also 1 made me another tahle. 4
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day ; no stir \
ring out. >
Dec. 25. Rain all day. i
Dec. 26. No rain, and the earth much colder than 5
hefore and pleasanter. 5
Dec. 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed another. J
so that I caught it, and led it home in a string; whim <
I had it home, 1 hound and splintered up its leg. I
which was hroke. N. B. I took such care of it that J
it lived, and the leg grew well and as strong as ever; i
hut hy nursing it so long it grew tame, and fed upon i
the little green at my door, and would not go away. 5
This was the first time that I entertained a thought s
of hreeding up some tame creatures, thai I might s
have food when my powder and shot was all spent.?
Dec. 28, 2$, 30. Great heats and no hreeze; so that 5
there was no stirring ahroad, except in the evening J
for food. This time I spent in puttmg all my things <
in order within doors. 5
January 1. Very hot still, hut I went ahroad early 5
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of C
the day. This evening, going farther into the vallies, \
which lay towards the centre of the island, I found 5
there was plenty of goats, though exceeding shy and \
hard to com,' at; however, I resolved to try if I j
could not hring my dog to hunt them down. 5
Jan 2. Accordingly, the next day I went out with 5
mv dog, and set him upon the goats; hut I was mis- s
fatten, for they all faced ahout upon the dog; and he. 5
knew his danger too well, for he would not come J
near them.
Jan. 3. I hegan my fence or wall; which, hemg
i
1
•till jealous of my heing attacked hy somehody, Ire- 5
solved to make very thick and strong. <
N. B. This wall heing descrihed hefore, I pur-
posely omit what was said, in the Journal ; it
is sufficient to ohserve, that I was no less tint•
than from the 3d of January to the 14th ol J
April, working, finishing, and perfecting this 5
wall, though it was no more than ahout twenty- 5
four yards in length, heing a half-circle from 5
one place in the rock to another place ahout 5
eight yards from it, the door of the cave heing 5
in the centre hehind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hinder-
ing me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together; 2
hut I thought I should never he perfectly secure until
this wall was finished ; and it is scarce credihle what
inexpressihle lahour every thing was done with, espe- i
cully the hringing piles out of the woods, and drivmg
them into the ground, for 1 made them much higger 5
than I need to have done. <
When this wall was finished, and 'he outside douhle 2
fenced with a turf wall raised up close to it, 1 per- \
suaded myself that if any people were to come on 5
shore there, they would not perceive any thing like a ,,
habitation; and it was very well I did so, as may he 5
ohserved hereafter upon a very remarkahle occasion. 5
During this time I made my rounds in the woods 5
for game evet-y day, when the rain admitted me, and j
made frequent discoveries in these walks of something 5
or other to my advantage; particularly I found a kind >
of wild pigeons, who huilt not as wood pigeons in a 5
tree, hut rather as house pigeons, in the nole» of the <
rocks ; and taking some young ones, I endeavoured to >
hreed them up tame, and did so; hut when they grew 5
older they flew away, which perhaps at first was for <
want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them , <
however, I frequently found their nests, and got their >
young ones, which were very good meat . 5
And now, in the managing my household affairs, I <
(bund myself wanting in many things, which 1 5

thought at lint it was impossihle for me to make, ai
indeed as to some of them it was; for instance, I
could never make a cask to he hooped; 1 had a
small runlet or two, as I ohserved hefore, hut I could
never arrive to the capacity of making one hy them,
though I spent many weeks ahout it; I could neithei
put in the heads, or joint the staves so true to one
another as to make tnem hold water: so 1 gave that
over also.
In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle
so that as soon as ever it was dark, which was gene-
rally hy seven o'clock, I was ohliged to go to hed : 1
rememhered the lump of hees-wax with which 1
made candles in my African adventure, hut I had
none of that now; the only remedy 1 had, was, thai
when I had killed a goat I saved the tallow, and with
a little dish made of clay, which I haked in the sun,
to which I added a wick of some oaknm, 1 made me
a lamp; and this gave me light, though not a clear
steady light like a candle. In the middle of all my
lahours it happened, that, rummaging my things, I
found a little bag, which, as I hinted hefore, had heen
filled with corn for the feeding of poultry, not for this
voyage, hut hefore, as I suppose, when the ship came
from Lishon ; what little remainder of com had heen
m the hag, was all devourded with the rats, and I saw
nothing in the hag hut husks and dust: and heing
willing to have the hag for some other use. I think it
was to put powder in, when I divided it for fear ol
the lightning, or some such use, I shook the husks of
corn out of it on one side of my fortif:cation under
the rock.
It was a little hefore the great rains, just now men
tioned, that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice
of any thing, and not so much as rememhering that 1
nad thrown any thing there ; when ahout a month
after or thereahout, I saw some few stalks of some-
thing green shooting out of the ground, which 1 fan-
cied might l.e some plant I had not seen; hut I to
surprised and perfectly astonished, when after a little
longer time 1 saw ahout ten or twelve ears come out,
which were perfect green harley of the same ktnd as
our European, nay, as our English harley.
It is impossihle to express the astonishment and
confusion of my thoughts on this occasion; I had
hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all;
indeed I had very few notions of religion in my
head, or had entertained any sense of any thing that
nad hefallen me, otherwise than as a chance, or, as
we lightly say, what pleases God ; without so much as
inquiring into the end of Providence in these things,
or his order in governing events in the world; hut
after I saw harley grow there, in a climate which I
knew was not proper for corn, and especially that I
knew not how it came there, it startled me strangely,
and I hegan to suggest, that God had miraculously
caused this grain to grow without any help of seed
sown, and that it was so directed purely for my sus-
tenance on that wild miserahle place.
This touched my heart a little, and hrought tears
out of my eyes, and I hegan to hless myself, that
such a progidy of nature should happen upon my ac-
count; and this was the more strange to me, hecause
I saw near it still, all along hy the side of the rock,
some other straggling stalks, which proved to he
stalks of rice, andwhich I knew, hecause I had seen
it grow in Africa, when I was ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions of
Providence for my support, hut not douhting hut that
there was more in the place, I went all over that part
of the island, where I had heen hefore, preping in
•very corner and under every rock to see for more of
it, hut I could not find any; at last it occurred to my
thought, that I had sht ok a hag of chicken's meat out
in that place, and then tne wonder hegan to cease;
and I must confess, my religious thankfulness to
God's providence hegan to ahate too upon discovering
that all this was notiuig hut what was common:
though 1 ought to havs . t«rr as thankful for so strange
"id i nforeseen a pro' cttce as if it had heen miracu-
Inus: for it was really the work of Providence as
me, that should order or appoint ten or twelve grainl
of corn to remain unspoiled, when the rats had de.
stroyed all the rest, as if it had heen dropped from
heaven; as also, that I should throw it out in that
particular place, where, it heing in the shade of a
high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas if 1
had thrown it any where else at that time, it had heen
hurnt up and destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of corn, you may he sure
in their season, which was ahout the end of June, and
laying up every corn, I resolved to sow them all
again, hoping in time to have some quantity sufficient
to supply me with hread; hut it was not till the
fourth year that I could allow myself the least grain
of this corn to eat, and even then hut sparingly, as I
shall say afterwards in its order; for I lost all that I
sowed the first season, hy not ohserving the proper
time; for I sowed it just hefore the dry season, so
that it never came up at all, at least not as it would
have done: of which in its place.
Besides this harley there were, as ahove, twenty ci
thirty stalks of rice which I preserved with the saint
care, and whose use was of the same kind or to tilt
same purpose, viz. to make me hread, or rathd
food; for I found ways to cook it up without haking
though I did that also after some time. But to retura
to my journal.
I worked excessive hard these three or four months
to get my wall done; and the 14th of April I closed
It up contriving to go into it, not hy a door hut ovei
the wall hy a ladder, that there might he no sign in
the outside of my hahitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder; so I went up with
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me,
and let it down on the inside: this was a complete
enclosure to me; for within I had room enough, and
nothing could come at me from without, unless it
could first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I
had almost had all my lahour overthrown at once, ami
myself killed ; the case was thus: As I was husy in
the inside of it hehind my tent, just in the entrance
htto my cave, I was terrihly frightened with a most
dreadful surprising thing indeed; for on a sudden I
found the earth corne crumhling down from the root
of my cave, and from the edge of the hill, over my
head and two of the posts 1 had set up in the cave
cracked in a frightful manner; I was heartily scared
hut thought nothing of what was really the cause,
only thinking that the top of my cave, was falling in
as some of it had done hefore; and for fear I should
he huried in it, I ran foiward to my ladder, and not
th inking myself safe there neither, I got over my wall
for fear of the pieces of the hill which 1 expected
might roll down upon me. I was no sooner stept
down upon the firm ground, hut I plainly saw it was
a terrihle earthquake, for the ground 1 stood on shook
three times at ahout eight minutes distance, with three
such shocks, as would have overturned the strongest
huilding that could he supposed to have stood on the
earth ; and a great piece of the top of a rock, which
stood ahout half a mile from me next the sea, fell
down with such a terrihle noise as 1 never heard in
all my life: 1 perceived also the very sea was put in
violent motion hy it: and I helieve the shocks were
stronger under the water than on the island.
I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never
felt the like, or discoursed with any one that had, that
1 was like one dead or stupiMed ; and the motion of
the earth made my stomach sick, like one that was
tossed at sea; hut the noise of the falling of the rock
awaked me, as it were, and rousing me from the sttv
pified condition I was in, filled me with horror, and I
thought of nothing then hut the hill falling upnrt i,"
tent and all my household goods, and hurying *tu ,i
once; and this sunk my very soul within men r
After the third shock was over, and I felt rst ykxt

for some time, I hegan to take courage, and yet I haa
not heau enough to get over my wall again, for fea/
of heing huried alive, hut sat still upon the ground,
greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what
to do. All this while I had not the least serious reli-
gious thought, nothing hut the common "Lord havs
mercy upon me,!" and when it was over, that went
•way too.
While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow
doudy, as if it would rain ; soon after that the wind
rose hy little and little, so that in less than half an
hour it hlew a most dreadful hurricane; the sea was
all on a sudden covered over with foam and froth,
the shore was covered with the hreach of the water,
the trees were torn up hy the roots, and a terrihle
storm it was; and this held ahout three hours, and
then hegan to ahate, and in two hours more it was
stark caim, and hegan to rani very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground, very much
terrified and dejected, when on a sudden it came into
my thoughts, that these winds and rain heing the con-
sequence of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was
spent and over, and I might venture into my cave
again; with this thought my spirits hegan to revive,
and the rain also helping to persuade me, I went in
and sat down m my tent; hut the rain was so violent,
that my tent was ready to he heaten down with it;
and I was forced to go into my cave, though very
much afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my
head.
The viotent rain forced me into a new work, viz. to
cut a hole through my new fortification like a sink, to
let water go out, which would else have drowned my
cave. After I had heen in my cave some time, and
found still no more shocks of the earthquake follow,
I hegan to he more composed; and now, to support
my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went
to my little store, an'! took a small sup of rum, which
however I did then and always very sparingly, know
ing I could i we no more when that was gone.
It continued raining all that night, and great part at
he next day, so that I could not stir ahroad ; out my
mind heing more composed, I hegan to think of what
I had hest do, concluding that if the island was suh-
ject to these earthquakes, there would he no living for
me in a cave, hut I must consider of huilding me
some little hut in an open place, which I might sur-
round with a wall as I had done here, and so make
myself secure from wild heasts or men: hut conclud-
ed, if I staid where I was, I should certainly, one
time or other, he huried alive.
With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent
from the place wnere it stood, which was hist under
the hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it
should he shaken again, would certainly fall upon my
tent. And I spent the two next days, heing tne 19th
and 20th of April, in contriving where and how to
remove my hahitation.
The fear of heing swallowed up alive, made me
that 1 never slept in quiet, and yet the apprehension
of lying ahroad without any fence was almost equal
to it; hut still, when I looked ahout and saw how
every thing was put in order, how pleasantly conceal-
ed 1 was, and how safe from danger, it made me ver)
loth to remove.
In the mean time it occurred to me that it would
require a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that
I must he contented to run the venture where I was,
till I had formed a camp for myself, and had secured
it so as to remove to it . So -with this resolution I
composed myself for a time, and resolved that I
would go to work with all speed to huild me a wall
with piles and cahles, &c. in a circle as hefore; and
ses my tent up in it when it was finished, hut that t
would venture to stay where I was till it was finished
and fit to remove to. This was the 21 st
.
April 22. The next morning I hegan to consider of
means to put this resolve in execution, hut I was at a
(reat loss ahout my tools. I had three large axes and
abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for
trafic with the Indians): hut with much chopping
and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full ol
notches and dull; and though I had a grindstone, 1
could not turn it and grind my tools too : this cost me
as much 1hought aa a statesman wow Id have hestowed
upon a grand point of politics, or a judge upon the
lile and death of a man. At lengt! 1 contrived a
wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I
might have hoth my hands at liN'ny. AWe, I had
never seen any such thing in England, or at least not
to take notice how it was done, though since 1 have
ohserved it was very common there ; hesides that my
grindstone was very large and heavy. This machine
cost me a full week's work to hrmg it to perfection.
April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grind-
stone performing very well.
April 30. Having perceived my hread had heen
low a great while, now I took a survey of it and re-
duced myself to one hiscuit cake a day, which made
my heart very heavy.
May 1. In the morning, looking toward the sea-
•ide, the tide heing low, I saw something lie on the
thore higger than ordinary; and it looked like a cask;
when I came to it, I found a small harrel, and two or
three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were
driven on shore hy the late hurricane; and looking
towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie
higher nut of the water than it used to do. I examin-
ed the harrel which was driven on shore, and soon
found it was a harrel of gunpowder, hut it had taken
water, and the powder was caked as hard as a stone;
however, I rolled it farther on shore for the present,
and went on upon the sand as near as I could to tlte
wreck of the ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely
removed; the forecastle, which lay hefore huried in
sand, was heaved up at least six foot; and the stern,
which was hroke to pieces, and parted from the rest
Hy the force of the sea, soon after 1 had left rumma-
in3 her, was tossed, as it were, up, and cast on one
ttHe, and the sand was thrown so high on that side
next her stern, that whereas there was a great plane o|
water hefore, so that I could not come within a quar-
ter of a mile of the wreck without swimming, I could
now walk quite up to her when the tide was out . I
was surprised with this at first, hut soon concluded it
must he done hy the earthquake : and as hy this vio-
lence the ship was more hroken open than formerly
no many things came daily on shore, which the set)
had loosened, and which the winds and water rolled
hy degrees to the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design
of removing my hahitation; and I husied myself
mightily, that day especially, in searching whether 1
could make any way into the ship; hut! found no-
thing was to he expected of that kind, for that all the
inside of the ship was choked up with sand: however
as I learnt not to despair of any thing, I resolvea
to pull every thing to pieces that t could of the ship,
concluding, that every thing I could get from her
would he of some use or other to me.
May 3. 1 hegan with my saw, and cut a piece of a
heam through, which I thought held some of the upper
part or quarter-deck together, and when I had cut it
through, I cleared away the sand as well as I could
from the side which lay highest; hut the tide coming
In, I was ohliged to give over for that time.
May. 4. I went a-fishing, hut caught not one fish
that I durst eat ot, till I was weary of my sport;
when just going to leave off, I caught a young dolphin.
I had made me a long line of some rope-yarn, out I
OK ROBINSON CRtJSOE. 85
much as 1 cared to eat; all which 1 dried in the sun*
and ate them dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck, cut another heam
asunder, and hrought three great fir planks off from
the decks, which I tied together, and made swim on
shore vrhen the tide of flood came on.
May 6. YVrirked on the wreck, got several Inw
holts out of her, and other pieces of iron-work %
worked very hard, and came home very much tired,
and had thoughts of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, hut with an intent
not to work, hut found the weight of the wreck had
hroke itself down, the heams heing cut, that several
pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose, and the inside
of the hold lay so open, that I could see into it, hut
almost full of water and sand.
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carriod an iron
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite
clear of the water or sand; 1 wrenched open two
rlanks, and hrought them on shore also with the tide -
lelf the iron crow In the wreck for next day.
May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow
made way into the hody of the wreck, and felt several
casks, and loosened them with the crow, hut could
not hreak them up: I felt also the roll of English
lead, ai.d could stir it, hut it was too heavy to remove.
May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Went everyday to the
wreck, And got a great many pieces of timher, and
hoards, or plank, and two or three hundred weight of
iron.
May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could
not cut a piece off the roll of lead, hy placing the
edge of one hatchet and drivmg it with the other;
hut as it lay ahout a foot and a half in the water, I
could not make any hlow to dtive the hatchet
.
May 16. It had hlown hard in the night, and the
wreck appeared more hroken hy the force of the
water; hut I staid so long in the woods to get pigeons
for food, that the tide prevented me going to the
wreck that day.
May 17. 1 saw some pieces of the wreck hlown on
shore, at a great distance, near two miles off me, hu
resolved to see what they were, and found it was a
piece of the head, hut too heavy for me to hring away.
May 24. Every day to this day I worken on the
wreck, and with hard lahour I loosened some things
so much with the crow, that the first Mowing tide
tereral cases floated out, and two of the sen men's
chests; hut the wind hlowing from the shore, nothing
came to land that day hut nieces of timher, and a
hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it, hut the
salt water and the sand had spoiled it
.
I continued this work every day to the 15th of June,
except the time necessary to get food, which I always
appointed, during this part of my employment, to he
when the tide was up, that I might he ready when it
was ehhed out; and hy this time I had gotten timher,
and plank, and iron-work enough to have huilt a good
hoat, if I had known how; and also I got at several
times, and in several pieces, near one hundred weight
of the-sheet-lead.
June 16. Going down to the sea-side, I found a
large tortoise or turtle: this was the first I had seen,
which it seems was only my misfortune, not any de-
fect of the place, or scarcity; for had I happened to
he on the other side of the island, I might have had
hundreds of them every day, as I found afterwards;
hut perhaps had paid dear enough for them.
Junel7. I spent in cooking the turtle; Ifoundinher
threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me at that time
the most savory and pleasant that ever I tasted in my
life, having had no flesh, hut of goats and fowls, since
I landed in this horrid place.
June 18. Rained all day, and stayed within. I
thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was
something chilly, which I knew was not usual in that
latitude.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather
had heen cold.
June 20. No rest all night, violent pains in mv
head, and feverish.
June 21. Very ill, frighted almost to death with the
apprehensions of my sad condition, to he sick, and
no help. Prayed to God for the first time since the
storm off Hull, hut scarce knew what I said, or why;
my thoughts heing all confused.
June 22. A little hetter, hut under dreadful appre
(tensions of sickness.
June 23. Very had again, cold and shivering, and
then a violent headach.
June 24. Much hetter.
June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me
seven hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it
June. 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat
took my gun, hut found myself very weak; however
I killed a she goat, and with much difficulty got i
home, and hroiled some of it, and ate; 1 would fain
have stewed it, and made some hroth, hut had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent, that I lay ahed
all day, and neither ate or drank. I was ready to
perish for thirst, hut so weak I had not strength to stanj
up, orto get myself any water to drink. Prayed to
God again, hut was light-headed ; and when I was not
1 was so ignorant, that 1 knew not what to say ; only
I lay and cried, "Lord look upon me! Lord pity
me, Lord have mercy upon me!" I suppose I did
nothing else for two or three hours, till the fit wearing
off, I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night;
when 1 waked, I found myself much refreshed, hut
weak, and exceeding thirsty: however, as I had no
water in my whole hahitation, I was forced to lie till
morning, and went to sleep again. In this second
sleep I had this terrihle dream.
I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the
outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm hlew
after the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend
from a great hlack cloud, in a hright flr,me of fire, an
light upon the ground. He was all over as hright a
a flame, so that I could hut just hear to look toward
him; his countenance was most inexpressihly dread-
ful, impossihle for words to descrihe; when he step-
ped upon the ground with his feet I thought the earth
tremhled, just as it had done hefore in the earthquake,
and all the air looked to my apprehension as if it had
heisn filled with flashes of fire.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth, hut he
moved forwards towards me, with a long spear ov
weapon in hts hand to kill me; and when he came
to a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to me.
or I heard a voice so terrihle, that it is impossihle tc
express the terror of it; all that I can say I under-
stood was this, "Seeing all these things have not
hrought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die at
which words Ithought he lifted up the spear that was
hi his hand to kill me.
No one, that shall ever read this account, will ex-
pect that I should he ahle to descrihe the horrors of
my soul at this terrihle vision; I mean, that even while
it was a dream, I even dreamed of those horrors;
nor is it any more possihle to descrihe the impression
that remained upon my mind, when I awaked, and
found it was hut a dream.
I had, alas ! no divine knowledge; what I had re
eeived hy the good instruction of my father was then
worn out hy an uninterrupted series, for eight years,
of seafaring wickedness, &nd a constant conversation
with nothing hut such as were, like myself, wicked
and profane to the last degree. I do not rememher
that I had in all that time one thought that so much
as tended either to looking upwards toward God, or
inwards towards a reflection upon my own ways.
But a certain stupidity of soul, without desire of good,
or conscience of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me,
and I was all that the most hardened, unthinking
wicked creature among our common sailors can be
supposed to he, not having the least sense, either of
0M fear of God in danger, or of thankfulness to God
in deliverance.
In the relating what is already past of my story,
this will he the more easily helieved, when I shall add,
that through all the variety of miseries that had to
this day hefallen me, I never had so much as one
thought of it heing the hand of God, or that it was a
lust punishment for my sin, my rehellious hehaviour
egairts' my rather, or my present sins, which were
90
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
great: or so much as a punishment for the generri
course of my wicked life. When I was on the despe-
rate expedition on the desert shores of Africa, I ne' er
had so much as one thought of what would hecome of
of me; or one wish to God to direct me whither 1
should go, or to keep me from the danger which ap-
parently surrounded me, as well from voracious crea,
tures as cruel savages; hut I was merely thoughtless
of a God, or a Providence, acted like a mere hrute
from the principles of nature, and hy the dictates of
common sense only, and indeed hardly that.
When I was delivered, and taken up at sea hy tht
Portugal captain, well used, and dealt justly and ho-
nourahly with, as well as charitahly, I had not the
least thankfulness on my thoughts. When again I
was shipwrecked ruined and in danger, ot drowning
on this island, I was as far from remorse, or looking
on it as a judgment; I only said to myself often, that
I was an unfortunate dag, and horn to he always
miserahle.
It is true, when I got on shore first here, and found
all my ships crew drowned, and myself spared, I was
surprised with a kind of extasy, and some transports
of soul, which, had the grace of God assisted, might
have come up to true thankfulness; hut it ended when
it hegun, in a mere common flight of joy, or, as I
may say, heing glad I was alive, without the lcarl
reflection upon the distinguishing goodness of the Hand
which had preserved me, and had singled me out to
he preserved, when all the rest were destroyed ; or an
nquiry why Providence had heen thus merciful to
me ; even just the same common sort of joy which
seamen generally have, after they have got safe on
shore from a shipwreck, which they drown all in the
next howl of punch, and forget almost as soon as it is
over; and all the rest of my life was like it
.
Even when I was afterwards, on due consideration,
made sensihle of my condition, how I was cast on this
dreadful place, out of the reach of human kind, out of
all hope of relief, or prospect of redemption, as soon
91
•s I saw hut a prospect of living and that I should
not starve and perish for hunger, all the sense of my
affliction wore off, and I hegan to he very easy, ap-
plied myself to the works proper for my preservation
and supply, and was far enough from heing afflicted
at my condition, as a judgment from Heaven, or as
the hand of God agamst me: tiiese were thoughts
which very seldom entered into my head.
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my
ournal, had at first some little influence upon me, and
Dcgan to affect me with seriousness, as long as I
thought it had something miraculous in it; hut as soon
as ever that part of thought was removed, all the im-
Eression which was raised from it wore off also, as 1
ave noted alteady.
Even the earthquake, though nothing can he more
terrihle in its nature, or more immediately directing
to the invisihle Power which alone directs such things;
yet no sooner wa3 the first fright over, hut the im-
pression it had made went off also. 1 had no more
sense of God or his judgments, much less of the pre-
sent affliction of my circumstances heing from his
hand, than if 1 had heen in the most prosperous con-
dition of life.
But now, when I hegan to he sick, and a leisurely
view of the miseries of death came to place itself he-
fore me; when my spirits hegan to sink under the
hurden of strong distemper, and nature was exhaust-
ed with the violence of the fever; conscience, that had
slept so long, hegan to awake, and I hegan to reproach
myself with my past life, in which 1 had so evidently,
hy uncommon wickedness, provoked the justice of
God to lay me under uncommon strokes, and to dea,
with me in so vindictive a manner.
These reflections oppressed me from the second of
third day of my distemper, and in the violence, as
well of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my
conscience, extorted some words from me like pray-
ing to God, though I cannot say they were either a
prayer attended with desires, or with hopes; it was
rather the voice of mere fright and distiess , my
thoughts were confused, the convictions great upon
my m mil, and the horror of dying in such a miserahle
condition, raised vapours into my head with the mere
apprehensions; and, in these hurries of my soul, I
knew not what my tongue might express: hut it was
rather exclamation, such as," Lorn ! what a mi sera
le creature am I ! If I should he sick, I shall cer-
ainly die for want of help, and what will hecome of
me !" Then the tears hurst out of my eyes, and I could
say no more for a good while.
In this interval, the good advice of my father canto
to my mind ; and presently his prediction, which I
mentioned in the heginning of this story, viz. that if I
did take this foolish step, liod would not hless me,
and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon hav-
ing neglected his counsel, when there might he none
to assist in my recovery. "Now," said I aloud,
"my dear father's words are come to pass: God's
justice has overtaken me, and 1 have none to help or
near me: I rejeeted the voice of Providence, whicb
had mercifully put me in a posture or station of lifo
wherein I might have heen happy and easy; hut I
would neither see it myself, nor learn to know the
hlessing of it from my parents; I left them to mourn
over my folly, and now I am left to mourn under the
consequences of it; I refused their help and assist-
ance who would have lifted me into the world, and
would have made every thing easy to me; and now I
have difficulties to struggle with, too great for even
nature itself to support, and no assistance, no help,
no comfort, no advice." Then I cried out, "Lord he
my help, for I am in great distress.!"
This was the first prayer, if I might call it so, that
Jhad made for many years. But I return to my
Journal.
June 28. Having heen somewhat refreshed with
the sleep I had had, and the fit heing entirely off, 1
got up ; and though the fright and terror of my dream
was very great, yet I considered, that the fit of the
ague would return again the next da;, and now in
my time to get something to refresh and support my-
self when I sliould he ill ; and the first thing I did,
I filled a large square case-hottle with water, and set
it upon my tahle, in reach of my hed; and to take
off the chill or aguish disposition of the water, I put
ahout a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed
them together; then I got me a piece of tho goat's
flesh and hroiled it on the coals, hut could eat very
little. I walked ahout, hut was very weak, and withal
very sad and heavy-hearted under a sense of my mi-
serahle condition, dreading the return of my distem-
per the next day. At night I made my supper of
three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted m the ashes,
and ate, as we call it, in the shell; and this was tlie
first hit of meat I had ever asked God's hlessing to,
even, as I could rememher, in my whole life.
After I had eaten I tried to walk; hut found my
self so weak that I could hardly carry the gun (for I
never went out without that) : so 1 went hut a little
way, and sat down upon the ground, looking out upon
the sea, which was just hefore me, and very calm and
smooth. As I sat here, some such thoughts as these
occurred to me:
What is the earth and sea of which I have seen so
much ? Whence is it produced ? And what am I, and
all the other creatures, wild and tame, human and
hrutal? whence are we?
Sure we are all made hy some secret Power, who
formed the earth and sea, the air and sky; and who
Is that.
Then it followed most naturally: it is God that
has made it all: well, hut then it came on strangely;
if God has made all these things, he guides and gov-
erns them all, and all things that concern them; for
the Being that could make all things, must certainly
have power to guide and direct them.
If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of his
works, either without his knowledge or appointment.
And if nothing happens without his knowledge, ha
knows that I am here, and am in a dreadful condi-
tion: and if nothing happens without his appointment,
he has appomted all this to hefal me.
Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict any
of these conclusions; and therefore it rested upon me
with the greater force, that it must needs he, that God
had appointed this to hefal me; that I was hrought
to this miserahle circumstance hy his direction, he
having the sole power, not of me only, hut of every
thing that happened in the world. Immediately it
followed.
Why has God done this to me? What have I done
to he thus used?
My conscience presently checked me in that inqui-
ry, as if I had hlasphemed; and methought it spoke to
me like a voice ; " Wretch ! dost thou ask what thou
hast done ? look hack upon a dreadful mi spent life,
and ask thyself what thou hast not done? ask, why is
it that thou wert not long ago destroyed? why wert
thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads? killed in the
tight when the ship was taken hy the Sallce man of
war? devoured hy the wild heasts on the coast of
Africa ? or drowned here, when all the crew perished
but thyself.3 Dost thou ask, What have I done r"
I was struck with these reflections as one astonish-
ad, and had not a word to say, no, not to answer to
myself; hut rose up pensive and sad, walked hack
to my retreat and went up over my wall, as if I had
heen going to hed; hut my thoughts were sadly dis-
turhed, and I had no inclination to sleep; so I sat
down in my chair, and lighted my lamp, for it hegan
to he dark. Now as the apprehensions, of the return
of my distemper terrified me very much, it occurred
to my thought that the Brasilians take no physic hut
their tohacco, for almost all distempers; and 1 had a
piece of a roll of tohacco in one of the chests, which
teas quite cured, and some also that was green, and
not quite cured.
I went, directed hy Heaven, no douht; for in this
•hest I found a cure hoth for soul and hody. I opened

ihe chest, and found what I looked for, vis. the to-
hacco; and as the few hooks I had saved lay there too,
I took out one of the Bihles which I mentioned he-
fore, and which, to this time, I had not found leisure,
dt so much as inclination, to look into; I say I took
it out, and hrought hoth that arid the tohacco with me
to the tahle.
What use to make of the tohacco I knew not ts to
my distemper, or whether it was good for it or no;
hut I tried several experiments with it, as if I was re-
solved it should hit one way or other: I first took a
piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which
indeed at ftrst almost stupified my hrain, the tohacco
heing green and strong, and that I had not heen much
used to it; then I took some, and steeped it an hour
or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose of
it when I lay down; and lastly, I hurnt some upon a
pan of coa^s, and held my nose close over the smnke
of it, as long as I could hear it, as well for the heat
tis the virtue of it, and I held almost to suffocation.
In the interval of this operation I took up the Bihle,
Mid hegan to read ; hut my head was too much dis-
turhed with the tohacco to hear reading, at least at
ihat time; only having opened the hook casually, the
fisrt words that occurred to me were these: "Call on
me in the day of trouhle, and I will deliver, and thou
thalt glorify me."
The words were very apt to my case, and made
some impression upon my thoughts at the time of
reading them, though not so much as they did after-
wards; for as for heing delivered, the word had no
sound as I may say, to me; the thing was so remote,
so impossihle in my apprehension of things, that I
hegan to say as the children of Israel did, when they
were promised flesh to eat, "Can God spread a tahle
in the wilderness ?" So I hegan to say, Can God him-
self deliver me from this place? And as it was not
for many years that any hope appeared, this prevailed
very often upon my thoughts: hut, however, tl*
•tords made a vety great impression upon me, and I
mused upon them very often. It grew now late, and
the tohacco had, as I said, dozed my head so much,
that 1 inclined to sleep; so that I left my lamp hurn-
ing in the cave, lest I should want any thing in the
night and went to hed; hut hefore 1 lay down, I did
what I never had done in all my life: I kneeled down,
and prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that
if I called upon him in the day of trouhle, he would
deliver me. After my hroken and imperfect prayer
was over, I drank the rum in which I had steeped
the tohacco, which was so strong and rank of the to-
hacco, that indeed I could scarce get it down. Imme-
diately upon this I went to hed, and I found presently
it flew up into my head violently; hut I fell into a
sound sleep, and waked no more, till hy the sun it
must necessarily he near threeo'clock in the afternoon
the next day; nay, to this hour I am partly of the
opinion that 1 slept all the next day and night, and
till almost three the day after; for otherwise I knew
not taw I should lose a day out of my reckoning in
the days of the week, as it appeared some years after
1 had done; for if 1 nad lost it hy crossing and re-
crossing the line, I should have lost more than a day;
hut in my account it was lost, and I never knew
which way.
Be that however one way or other; when I awak-
ed, I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and my
spirits lively and cheerful; when I got up, I was
stronger than I was the day hefore, and my stomach
hetter; for I was hungry; and, in short, I had no fit
the next day, hut continued much altered for the het-
ter: this was the 29th.
The 30th was my well day of course, and I went
ahroad with my gun, hut did not care to travel too
far: I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a
hrand goose, and hrought them home, hut was not
very forward to eat them : so I ate some more of the
turtle's egics, which were very good. This evening i
renewed the medicine which I had supposed did me
good the day hefore, viz. the tohacco steeped in rum;
only I did not take so much as hefore, nor did I chew
any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke;
however, I was no so wetl the next day, which was
the 1st of J uly, as I hoped I should have heen; for I
had a little spice of the cold fit, hut it was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways,
and dozed myself with it at first, and douhled the
quantity which I drank.
Jnly 3. 1 missed the fit for good and all, though 1
did not recover my full strength for some weeks alter.
While I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts ran
exceedingly upon thisscripture, " I will deliverthee;"
and the impossihility of my deliverance lay much
upon my mind, in har of my ever expecting it: hut as
I was discouraging myself with such thoughts, it oc-
curred to my mind, that I pored so much upon my
deliverance from the main affliction, that I disregard-
ed the deliverance I had received ; and I was, as it
were, made to ask myself such questions as these;
viz. Have I not heen delivered, and wonderfully too,
from sickness? from the most distressed condition
that could he, and that was so frightful to me? and
what notice had I taken of it? had I done my part?
God had delivered me; hut I had not glorified him:
that is to say, I had not owned and heen thankful for
that as a deliverance - and how could i expect greater
deliverance?
This touched my heart very much, and immedi-
ately I kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud,
for my recovery from my sickness,
July 4. In the morning I took the Bihle; and, he
ginning at the New Testament, I hegan seriously to
read it, and imposed upon myself to read a while
every morning and every night, not tying myself to
the numher of chapters, hut as long as my thoughts
should engage me. It was not long after I set seri-
ously to this work, hut I found my heart more deeply
and sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past
life: the impression of my dream revived, and the
VOL.L
words," All these things have not hrought thee to re
pentancc," ran seriously in my thoughts: I was ear-
nestly hegging of Clod to give me repentance, when it
happened^providentially the very day, that, reading
Lhe Scripture, I came to these words, " He is exalted
a Prince, and a Saviour, to give repentance, and to
give remission." I threw down the hook, and with
s-.y heart as well as my hand lifted up to heaven, in a
kind of ec stacy of joy, I cried out aloud, "Jesus,
thou Son of David, Jesus, thou exalted Prince and
Saviour, give me repentance!"
This was the first time that I could say, in the true
sense of the words, that I prayed in all my life; for
now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with
a true Scripture view of hcpe, founded on the encou-
ragement of the word of God; and from this time, I
may say, I hegan to have hope thatGod would hear me.
how I hegan to construe the words mentioned
ahove, "Call on me, and I will dgliver thee," in a
different sense from what I had ever done hefore; for
then I had no notion of any thing heing called deli
verance, hut my heing delivered from the captivity 1
was in; for though I was indeed at large in the place,
yet the island was certainly a prison to me, and that
in the worst sense in the world; hut now I learnt U,
take it in another sense. Now I looked hack upon
my past life with such horror, and my sins appeared
so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of God, hut
deliverance from the load of guilt that hore down all
my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing;
I did not so much as pray to he delivered from it, ot
think of it; it was all of no consideration in com-
parison of this; and I added this part here, to hint to
whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to a
true sense of things, theyjwill find deliverance from
sin a much greater hlessing than deliverance from
affliction.
But leaving this part, I return to my journal.
My condition hegan now to he, though not less
niaerahlc as to my way of living, yet much easier to
my mind; and my thoughts heing directed, hy a con-
itant reading the Scripture, and praying to God, to
things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of com-
fort within, which till now I knew nothing of: also
as my health and strength returned, I hestirred my-
self to furnish myself with every thing that I wanted,
anH make my way of living as regular as I could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly em-
ployed in walking ahout with my gun in my hand a
little and a little at a time, as a man that was gather-
ing up his strength after a fit of sickness; for it is hard-
ly to he imagined how low I was, and to what weak-
ness I was reduced. The application which I made
use of was perfectly new, and perhaps what had
never cured an ague hefore; neither can I recommend
though it did carry off the fit, yet it rather contrihuted
to weaken me; for 1 had frequent convulsions in my
nerves and limhs for some time.
I learnt from it also this in particular, that hein^
OF ROBINSON CRCSOE. 99
thing to my health that could he, especially in those
rains which came attended with storms and hurricanes
of wind; for as the rain which came in a dry season
was always most accompanied with such storms, so I
found this rain was much more dangerous than the
rain which fell in Septemher and Octoher.
I had heen now in this unhappy island ahove ten
months; all possihility of deliverance from this con-
dition seemed to he entirely taken from me; and I
firmly helieved that no human shape had ever set
foot upon that place. Having now secured my hahi-
tation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great
desire to make a more perfect discovery of the island,
and to see what other productions 1 might find, which
yet I knew nothing of.
It was the 15th of July that I hegan to take a more
particular survey of the island itself. I went up the
Lreek first, where, as I hinted, I hrought my rafts on
shote. I found, after I came ahout two mtles up, that
h to any one to practise hy thi:

the tide did not flow any higher, and that it was ne
more than a little hrook of running water, and very
fresh and good: hut this heing the dry season, there
was hardly any water in some parts of it, at least not
enough to run into any stream, so as it could he
perceived.
On the hank of this hrook I found many pleasant
savannasor meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with
grass; and on the rising parts of them next to the
higher grounds, where the water, as it might he sup-
nosed, never overflowed, I found a great deal of to-
hacco, green, and growing to a great and very strong
stalk ; there were divers other plants which I had no
notion of, or understanding ahout; and might perhaps
have virtues of their own, which I could not find out.
I searched for the cassave root, which the Indians
in all that climate make their hread of, hut I could
find none. I saw large plants of aloes, hut did not
then understand them: I saw several sugar-canes, hut
wild, and, for want of cultivation, imperfect . I con-
tented myself with these discoveries for this time, and
came hack, musing with myself what course I might
take to know the virtue and goodness of any of the
fruitsorplantswhich I should discover, hutcould hring
it to no conclusion ; for in short, I had made so little
observation while I was in the Brasils, that I knew
little of the plants of the field, at least very little that
might serve me to any purpose now in my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way
again ; and, after going something farther than I had
done the day hefore, I found the hrook and the sa-
vannas hegan to cease, and the country hecame more
woody than hefore. In this part I found different
fruits, and particularly t found melons upon the ground
In great abundance, and grapes upon the trees; the
vines had spread indeed over the trees, and the clus-
ters-of grapes were just now in their prime, very ripe
and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I was
exceeding glad of them ; hut I was warned hy my ex-
perience to eat sparingly of them, rememhering, that

when I was ashore in Barhary, the eating of grapes
tiled several of our Englishmen who were slaves
'here, hy throwing them into fluxes and fevers : hut f
tound an excellent use for these grapes, and that was
to cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried
grapes or raisins are kept, which I thought would he,
as indeed they were, as wholesome, and as agrecahto
to eat when no grapes might he had.
1 spent all that evening there, and went not hack to
my hahitation, which hy the way was the first night,
as 1 might say, I had lain from home. In the night I
took my first contrivance, and got up into a tree,
where I slept well, and the next mom:ng proceeded
upon my discovery, travelling near four miles, as I
might judge hy the length of the valley, keeping still
due north, with a ridge of hills on the south and north
side of me.
At the end of this march I came to an opening,
where the country seemed to descend to the west; and
a little spring of fresh water, which issued out of the
side of the hill hy me, ran the other way, that is, due
sast; and the country appeared so fresh, so green, so
flourishing, every thing heing in a constant verdure or
f!ourish ot spring, that it looked like a planted garden.
I descended a little on the side of that delicious vaV
ley, surveying itwith a secret kind of pleasure (though
mixed with other afflicting thoughts) to think that thia
was all my own, that I was king and lord of all thia
country indefeasihly, and had a right of possession;
and if I could convey it, I might have it in inheritance,
as completely as any lord of a manor in England. 1
saw here ahundance of cocoa-trees, trange and lemon,
and citron-trees, hut all wild, and few hearing any
fruit; at least, not then: howet'er the green limes that
I gathered were not only pleasant to e*B, hut very
wholesome; and 1 mixed their juice afterwards with
water, which made it very wholesome, and very cool
and refreshing.
I found now f had husiness enough to gather I
carry home; and resolved to lay up a store, as well of


grapes as limes and lemons, to furnish myself for the
wet season, which I knew was approaching.
In order to do this I gathered a great heap of grapes
m one place, and a lesser heap in another place, and
a great parcel of limes and lemons in another place;
and takmg a few of each with me, I travelled home-
ward, and resolved to come again, and hring a hag or
sack, or what I could make, to carry the rest home
Accordingly, having spent three days in this jour
ney, 1 came home (so I must now call my tent, and
my cave 0 hut hefore 1 got thither, the grapes were
spoiled; the richoess of the fruit, and the weight of
the juice, having hroken them, and hruised them, they
were good for little or nothing: as to the limes, they
were good, hut I could hring hut a few.
The next day, heing the 19th, I went hack, having
made me two small hags to hring home my harvest.
But I was surprised when coming to my heap of
grapes, which were so rich and fine when I gathered
them, I found ihem all spread ahroad, trod to pieces,
and dragged ahout, some here, some there, and ahun-
dance eaten and devoured. By this I concluded there
were some wild creatures thereahouts, which had
done this; hut what they were I knew not
.
However; as I found there was no laying them up
on heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, hut
that one way they would he destroyed, and the other
way they would he crushed with their own weight, I
took another course; for I gathered a large quantity
of the grapes, and hung them upon the out hranches
of the trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun;
•ud as for the limes and lemons, 1 carried as many
hack as 1 could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, I contem-
plated ivkh great pleasure on the fruitfulness of that
valley, ana the pleasantness of the situation, the secu-
rity from storms on that side of the water, aed the
wood ; and concluded that I had pitched upon a place
to fix my ahode, which was hy far the worst part ol
the country. Upon the whole, I hegan to consider
ot removing my hahitation, and to look out for a
placfl cquauy safe as when I now was situated, ut
possihle, in that pleasant fruitful part of the island.
This thought ran long in my head, and I was ex-
ceeding fond of it for some time, the pleasantness »'
the place tempting me: hut when I came to a nearet
view of it, and to consider that I was now hy the sea
side, where it was at least possihle that something
might happen to my advantage, and that the same ill
fate that hrought me hither, might hring some other
unhappy wretches to the same place; and though it
was scarce prohahle that any such thing should ever
happen, yet to enclose myself among the hills and
woods, in the centre of the island was to anticipate
my hondage, and to render such an affair not only
improhahle, hut impossihle; and that therefore I
ought not hy any means to remove.
However, 1 was so enamoured with this place, that
I spent much of my time there for the whole remain-
ing part of the month of July; and though, upon se-
cond thoughts, I resolved as ahove, not to remove,
yet I huilt me a little kind of a hower, and surround-
ed it at a distance with a strong fence, heing a douhle
hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked and filled
hetween with hrushwood ; and here I lay very secure,
sometimes two or three nights together, always going
over it with a ladder, as hefore; so that I fancied now
I had my country house, and my sea-coast house t
and this work took me up the heginning of August.
I had hut newly finished my fence, and hegan to
enjoy my lahour, hut the rains came on, and made
me stick close to my first hahitation : for though I had
made me a tent like the other, with a piece of a sail,
and spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter of
sn hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave hehind me
to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary.
Ahout the heginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my hower and hegan to enjoy myself. The
3d of August I found the grapes 1 had hung up were
perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good raisins
8
of the sun; so I hegan to take them down from tin
trees, and it was verv happy that I did so; for the
rains which followed would have spoiled them, and I
nad lost the hest part of my winter food; for I had
ahove two hundred large hunches of them. No sooner
had I taken them all down, and carried most of thera
home to my cave, hut it hegan to rain; and from
thence, which was the 14th of August, it rained mor
or less every day, till the middle of Octoher; an
sometimes so violently, that I could not stir out o
my cave for several days.
In this season 1 was much surprised with the in-
crease of my family: I had heen concerned for the
loss of one of my cats, who ran away from me, or,
as f thought, had heen dead ; and I heard no more
tale or tidings of her, till to my astonishment she came
home ahout the end of August, with three kittens.
This was the more strange to me, hecause though I
had killed a wild cat as I called it, with my gun, yet
I thought it was a quite different kind from our Euro-
Eean cats; yet the young cats were the same kind of
ouse hreed like the old one; and hoth my cats heing
females, 1 thought it very strange: hut from thesa
three cats I afterwatds came to he so pestered with
cats, that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or
wild heasts, and to drive them from my house as much
as possihle.
From the 14th of August to the 2Gth, incessant rain,
so that I could not stir, and was now very careful not
to he much wet . In this confinement I hegan to he
straitened for food ; hut venturing out twice, I one
day killed a goat: and the last day, which was the
26th, found a very large tortise which was a treat to
me, and my food was regulated thus: I ate a hunch
of raisins for my hreakfast, a piece of the goat's flesh,
or of the turtle, for my dinner, hroiled (for, to my
great misfortune, I had no vessel to hoil or stew any
thing;) and two or three of the turtle's eggs for supper.
During this confinement in my cover hy the rain,
I worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my
save, and, hy degrees, worked it on towards one
side, till I came to the outside of the hill, and made
a dour or way out, which came heyond my fence or
-Wall; and so 1 came in and out this way : hut 1 was
not perfectly easy at lying so open; for as I had
managed myself hefore, I was in a perfect enclosure,
whereas now I thought I lay exposed; and yet I
could not perceive that there was any living thing to
fear, the higgest creature that I had seen upon th
island heing a goat.
Septemher the 30th. I was now come to the
unhappy anniversary of my landing: I cast up the
notches on my post, and found I had heen on shore
three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day
as a solemn fast, setting it apart to a religious exer-
sise, prostrating myself to the ground with the most
serious humiliation, confessing myself to God ac-
knowledging his righteous judgment upon me, and
Erasing to him to have mercy on me, through Jesus
hrist; and haying not tasted the least refreshment
for twelve hours, even till the going down of the sun,
I then ate a hiscuit-cake and a hunch of grapes, and
went to hed, finishing the day as 1 hegan it.
I had all this time ohserved no sahhath-day; for as
XX first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had
after some time omitted to distinguish the weeks, hy
making a longer notch than ordinary for the sahhath-
day, and so did not really know what any of the days
were; hut now, having cast up the days as hefore, 1
found I had heen there a year; so I divided it into
weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a sahhath;
though I found at the end of my account 1 had Inst
ft day or two of my reckoning.
A little after this my ink hegan to fail me and so I
contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to
write down only the most remarkahle events of my
life, without continuing a daily memorandum of
Khor things.
The rainy season, and the dry season, hegan now to
appear regular to me, and I learnt to divide then »
as to provide for them accordingly. But I hought all
my experience hefore I had it; and this I am going to
relate, was one of the most discouraging experiments
that I made at all. I have mentioned, that I had saved
the few ears of harley and rice which I had so sur-
prisingly found spring up, as I thought, of themselves,
and helieve there were ahout thirty stalks of rice, and
•hout twenty of harley: and now I thought it a pro-
per time to sow it after the rains, the sun heing in its
southern position going from me.
Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground, as well as
I could, with my wooden spade, and dividing it into
two parts, I sowed my grain ; hut as I was sowing, it
casually occurred to my thought, that I would not
cow it all at first, hecause 1 did not know when was
the proper time for it; so I sowed ahout two thirds of
the seeds, leaving ahout a handful of each.
It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did
so, for not one grain of that I sowed this time came
to any thing; for the dry months following, the earth
having had no rain after the seed was sown, it had
no moisture to assist its growth, and never came up
at all, till the wet season had come again, and then
it grew as if it had heen newly sown.
Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily
imagined was hy the drought, I sought for a moister
piece of ground to make another trial in; and I dug
up a piece of ground near my new hower, and sowed
the rest of my seed in Fehruary, a little hefore the
vernal equinox; and this, having the rainy months
of March and April to water it, sprung up very plea-
santly, and yielded a very good crop; hut having
part of the seed left only, and not daring to sow all
that I had yet, I had hut a small quantity at last, my
whole crop not amounting to ahove half a peck of
each kind.
But hy this experience I was made master of my
husiness, and knew exactly when the proper seasro
r
was to sow; and that I might expect two seed-times,
and two harvests, every year.
While thiscorn was growing, I made alittle disco- 5
very, which was of use to me afterwards. As soon 5
as the rains were over, and the weather hegan to set- J
tie, which was ahout the month of Novemher, I
made a visit up the country to my hower, where
though I had not heen some months, yet 1 found all
hings just as I left them. The circle or douhle
hedge that I had made, was not only firm and entire,
hut the stakes which I had cut off of some trees that
grew thereahouts, were all shot out, and grown with
long hranches, as much as a willow tree usually
shoots the first year after lopping its head, i could $
not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were cat 5
from. I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to J
see the young trees grow; and I pruned them, and i
led them up to grow as much alike as I could; and 5
it is scarce credihle, how heautiful a figure they grew 5
into in three years; so that though the hedge made a 5
circle of ahout twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the >
trees, for such 1 might now call them, soon covered J
it; and it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge {
under all the dry season. 5
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, >
and make me an hedge like this in a semicircle round J
my wall, I mean that of my first dwelling, which I 1
did ; and placing the trees or stakes in a douhle row, £
at ahout eight yards distance from my first fence, they i
frew presently, and were at first a fine cover to my J
abitation, and afterwards served for a defence also, i
as f shall ohserve in its order. i
I found now, that the seasons of the yea.- might £
generally he divided, not into summer and winter, as
m Europe, hut into the rainy seasons and the dry
seasons, which were generally thus:
Half Fehruary, ) Rainv. the sun hein§ then on,
Half"?. Bear, the equinox.

I Dry, the sun hemgthentothenortk
| of the line,
r, > Rain, the sun heing then come hack.
Dry, the sun heing then to the south
of the line.
Half April,
May,
June,
July,
Half August,
Half August,
Septemher
Half Octoher,
Half Octoher,
Nohemher,
Decemher,
January,
Half Fehruary,
The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter,
as the winds happened to hlow ; hut this was the ge-
neral ohservation 1 made. After 1 had found, hy
experience, the ill consequence of heing ahroad in the
ram, I took care to furnish myself with provision he-
fore-hand, that I might not he ohliged to go out; and
1 sat within doors as much as possihle during the wet
months.
In this time I found much employment, (and very
suitahle also to the time) for I found great occasion
of many things which I had no way to furnish myself
with, hut hy hard lahour and constant application;
particularly, 1 tried many ways to make myself a
hasket; hut all the twigs I could get for the purpose
proved so hrittle, that they wotid do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when
I was a hoy I used to take great delight in standing at
a hasket maker's in the town where my father lived,
to see them make their wicker-ware; and heing, as
hoys usually are, very officious to help, and a grea
ohserver of the manner how they worked those thmgs,
and sometimes lent an hand, I had hy this means so
full knowledge of the methods of it, that 1 wanted
nothing hut the materials; when it came into my
min 1, that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut
mv stakes that grew, might possihly he as tough as the
swallows, and willows, and osiers, in England ; and
I resolved to try.
Accordingly the next day I went to my country-
house, as I called it, and cutting some of the smaller
twigs, 1 found them to my purpose as much as I could
desire; whereupon I came the next time prepared
with an hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I soon
found, for there was a great plenty of them: these 1
set up to dry within my circle or hedges; and when 5
they were fit for use, I carried them to my cave ; and 5
here during the next season I employed myself in 5
making (as well as I could) a great many haskets, ^
hoth to carry earth, or to carry or lay up any thing, >
as | had occasion; and though I did not finish them S
rery handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently service- 3;
ahle for my purpose; and thus afterwards I took care
never to he without them; and as my wicker-ware
decayed I made more; especially I made strong deep
haskets to place my corn in, instead of sacks, when I
s should come to have any quantity of it.
< Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a
S world of time ahout it, I hestirred myself to see, if
5 possihle, how to supply two wants. I had no vessels
C to hold any thing that was liquid, except two runlets, 5
? which were almost full of rum, and some glass hot- s
? ties, some of the common size, and others which 5
4 were case-hottles square, for the holding of waters, t
£ spirits. Stx,. I had not so much as a pot to hoil any i
f thing in, except a great kettle which I saved out of £
J' the ship, and which was too htg for such uses as I p~
£ desired it for, viz. to make hroth, and stew a hit cf >
5 meat hy hsel£ The second thing 1 would fain have s
£ had, was a tohacco-pipe, hut it was impossihle for 5
me to make one; however, I found a contrivancet 3
for that too at last
.
I employed myself in planting my second rows of
stakes or piles, and in thts wicker-work, all the sum-
mer, or dry season; when another husiness took me
up more time than it could he imagined I could spare,
I mentioned hefore, that I had a great mind to
see the whole island, and that I had travelled up the
hrook, and so on to where I huilt my hower, and
wherd I had an opening quite to the sea, on the othet
side of the island. I now resolved to travel quite
across to the sea-shore on that side. So taking my
gun and hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity
of powder and shot than usual, with two hiscoit-cakes
and a great hunch of raisins in my pouch, for my
store, I hegan my journey. When I had passed tha
vale where my hower stood, as ahove, I came within
view of the sea, to the west; and it heing a very clear
day, I fairly descried land, whether an island or con-
tinent I could not tell; hut it lay very high, extend-
ing from the west to the W. S. W. at a very great
distance; hy my guess it could not he less than fifteen
or twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might
he, otherwise than that I knew it must ho part of Ame-
rica; and, as I concluded hy all my ohservations,
must he near the Spanish dominions, and perhaps
was all inhahited hy savages, where if I should have
landed, I had heen in a worse condition than I was
now; and therefore I acquiesced in the dispositions
of Providence, which I hegan now to own, and to
helieve ordered every thing for the hest; I say, I qui-
eted my mind with this, and left afflicting myself
with fruitless wishes of heing there.
Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I consi-
dered, that if this land was the Spanish coast, I should
certainly, one time or other, see some vessels pass or
repass one way or other ; hut if not, then it was tha
savage cost hetween the Spanish country and Brasil,
which were indeed the worst of savages; for they are
cannihals, or men-eaters, and fail not to murder and
devour all the human hodies that fall into their hands.
With these considerations I walked very leisurely
forward. I found that side of the island where I now
was, much pleasanter than mine, the open or savanna
fields sweet, adorned with flowers and graes, and full
of very fine woods. I saw ahundance of parrots, and
fain would I have caught one, if possihle, to have
kept it to he tame, and taught it to speak to me. I
did, after some pains-taking, catch a young; parrot;
for I knocked it down with a stick, ana havmg reco-
vered it, I hrought it home, hut it was some yeara
hefore I could make him speak. However, at last I
taught him to call me hy my name very familiarly t
hut the accident that followed, though it he a trine
will he very diverting in its place.
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey: I
found in the low grounds, hares, as I thought them to
he, a.id foxes, hut they differed greatly from all the
other kinds I had met with; nor could I satisfy my-
self to eat them, though I killed several: hut I had no
need to he venturous ; for I had no want of food, and
of that which was very good too; especially these
three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and turtle or tortoise;
which added to my grapes, Leadenhall-market could
not have furnished a hetter tahle than I, in propos-
tion to the company: and though my case was de-
plorahle enough, yet I had a great cause for thankful-
ness, that I was not driven to any extremities for
food; hut rather plenty, even to dainties.
I never travelled in this journey ahove two miles
outright in a day, or thereahouts; hut I took so many
turns and returns, to see what discoveries I could
make, that I came weary enough to the place where I
resolved to sit down for all night; and then either
reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with
a row of stakes set upright in the ground, either from
one tree to another, or so as no wild creature could
come at me without waking me.
As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised
to see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side
of the island; for here indeed the shore was covered
with innumerahle turtles, whereas on the other side
I had found hut three in a year and an half. Here
was also an infinite numher of fowls of many kinds,
some of which I had not seen hefore, and many of
them very good meat; hut such as I knew not the
names of except those called penginns.
I could have shot as many as I pleased, hut was
very sparing of my powder and shot: and therefore
had more mind to kill a she-gout, if I could, which 1
could hetter feed on: and though there were many
gnats here more than on the other side of the island,
yet it was with much more difficulty that I could
come near them; the country heing flat and even,
and they saw me much sooner than when I was on
the hills.
I confess this side of the country was much plea,
santer than mine, hut yet I had not the least inclina-
tion to remove; for as I was fixed in my hahitation.
It hecame natural to me, and 1 seemed all the while 1
was here to he, as it were upon a journey, and from
home: however, 1 travelled along the shore of the sea
towards the east, I suppose, ahout twelve miles; and
then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a mark,
I concluded I would go home again; and the next jour.
ney I took should he on the other side of the island,
east from my dwelling, and so round, till 1 came tt
my post again : of which in its place .
I took another way to come hack than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep all the island so much in
my view, that I could not miss finding my first dwell-
ing hy viewing the country; hut 1 found myself mis-
taken; for heing come ahout two or three miles, I
found myself descended into a very large valley; hut
so surrounded with hills, and those hills covered with
woods, that I could not see which was my way hy
any direction hut that of the sun; nor even then,
unless I knew very well the position of the sun at
hat time of the day.
It happened, to my farther misfortune, that the
weather proved hazy for three or four days, while I
was in this valley; and not heing ahle to see the sun,
I wandered ahout very uncomfortahly, and at last was
ohliged to find out the sea-side, look for my post, and
t,ome hack the same way I went; and then hy easy
journies I turned homeward, the weather heing ex-
ceeding hot; and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and
other things, very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
seized upon it; and I running in to take hold of it,
caugh ,t and saved it alive from the dog. I had a
great mind to hring it home, if 1 could; for I had
often heen musing whether it might not he possihle to
get a kid or two, and so raise a hreed of tame goats,
which might supply me when my powder and shot
should he spent.
I made a collar for this little creature, and with a
string which f made of some rope-yarn, which I
always carried ahout me, I led him along, though
with some difficulty, till I came to my hower, and
there I enclosed him, and left him; for I was very
impatient to he at home, from whence I had heen
ahsent ahov\ a month.
I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to tne
to come into my old hutch, and lie down in my ham-
mock-hed: this little wandering journey, without a
settled place of ahode, had heen so unpleasant tome,
that my own house, as 1 called it to myself, was a
perfect settlement to me, compared to that; and it
rendered every thing ahout me so comfortahle, that I
resolved I would never go a great way from it again,
while it should he my lot to stay on the island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale
myself after my long journey; during which, most
making a cage for my Pol, who hegan now to he a
mere domestic, and to he mighty well acquainted with
me. Then I hegan to think of the poor kid, which I
had pent in within my little circle, and resolved to go
and fetch it home, and give it some food; accordingly
f went, and found it where I left it; for indeed it
could not get out, hut was almost starvH for want of
food; I went and cut houghs ol trees and hranches of
such shruhs as I could findt and threw it over, and

taken up in the weighty affair ot
having fed it, I tied it asI did hefore to lead it away,
hut it was so tame with heing hungry, that 1 had no
need to have tied it; for it followed me like a dog,
and as I continually fed it, the creature hecame so
loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it hecame from
that time one of my domestics also, and would never
leave me afterwards
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now
come, and 1 kepi the 30th of Septemher in the game
solemn manner as hefore, heing the anniversary o
my landing on the island, having now heen there two
years, and no more prospect of heing delivered than
the first day I came there. I spent the whole day in
humhle and thankful acknowledgements of the many
wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was
attended with, and without which it might have heen
inf:nitely more miserahle. I gave humhle and hearty
thanks, that God had heen pleased to discover to me
even that it was possihle 1 might he more happy in
this solitary condition than I should have heen in a
liherty of society, and in all the pleasuresofthe world:
that he could fully make up to me the deficiencies of
my solitry state, and the want of human society, hy
his presence, and the communication of his grace to
my soul, supporting, comforting, and encouraging me
to depend upon his providence here, and hope for
his eternal presence hereafter.
It was now that I hegan sensihly to feel how much
more happy the life I now led was, with all its miser-
ahle circumstances, than the wicked, cursed,ahomina-
hle life I led all the past part of my days; and now,
having changed hoth my sorrows and my joys, my
very desires alteted, my affections changed the:r gust,
and my delights were perfectly new from what they
were at first coining, or Indeed for two years past.
Before as I walked ahout, either on my hunting,
or for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at
my condition would hreak out upon me on a sudden,
and my very heart would die wtthin me, to think of
the woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in; and
how I was a prisoner, locked up with the eternal han
and holts of the ocean, in an uninhahited wilderness,
without redemption. In the midst of the greatest
composures of my mind, this would hreak out upon
me tike a storm, and made me ring my hands, and
weep like a child. Sometimes it would take me in
the middle of my work, and I would immediately sit
down and sigh, and look upon the ground for an how
or two together, and this was still worse to me ; for if
1 could hurst out into tears, or vent myself hy words,
It would go off; and the grief, having exhausted
itself, would ahate.
But now I hegan to exercise myself with new
thoughts; I daily read the word of God, and applied
all the comforts of it to my present state. One morn-
ing heing very sad, f opened the Bihle upon these
words, "I will never, never leave thee, nor forsake
thee!" Immediately it occurred, that these words
were to me, why else should they he directed in such
a manner, just at the moment when I was mourning
over my condition, as one forsaken of God and man?
'Well then," said I, "if, God does not forsake me,
of what ill consequence can it he, or what matters it,
though the world should all forsake me; seeing, on
the other hand, if I had all the world, and should lose
the favour and hlessing of God, there would he no
comparison in the loss
From this moment I hegan to conclude in my
mind, that it was possihle for me to he more happy
in this forsaken, solitary condition, than it was proha-
hle t should have ever heen in any other particular
state in the world; and with this thought I was going
to give thanks to God for hringing me to this place.
fknow not what it was, hut something shocked my
mind at that thought, and I durst not speak the words,
s How canst thou he such an hypocrite," said I, even
audihly, "to pretend to he thankful for a condition,
which, however thou mayst endeavour to he contented
with, thou wouldest rather pray heartily to I* deliver-
ed from?" So I stopped there; hut though I couU
not say I thanked God for heing there, yet I sincerely
gave thanks to God for opening my eyes, hy what-
ever afflicting providences, to see the former condition
of my life, ana to mourn for my wickedness, and re-
pent. 1 never opened the Bihle, or shut it, hut my
very soul within me hlessed God for directing my
friend in England, without any order of mine, to pack
it up among my goods; and for assisting me after
wards to save it out of the wreck of the ship.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I hegan my
third year; and though 1 have not given the reader
the trouhle of so particular an account of my works
this year as at the first, yet in general it may he oh-
served, that 1 was very seldom idle ; having regularly
divided my time, according to the several daily em-
ployments that were hefore me; such as, first, my
duty to God, and reading the scriptures, which I con-
stantly set apart some time for, thrice every day:
secondly, the going ahroad with my gun for food,
which generally took me up three hours every mom
lug when it did not rain: thirdly, the ordering, cur-
ing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or
catched for my supply; these took up great part of
the day : also it is to he considered, that in the middle
of the day, when the sun was in the zenith, the vio-
lence of the heat was too great to stir out: so that
ahout four hours in the evening was all the time 1
could he supposed to work in; with this exception,
that sometimes 1 changed my hours of hunting aud
working, and went to work in the morning, and
ahroad with my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for lahour, I desire may
he added the exceeding lahoriousness of my work;
the many hours, which for want of tools, want of
help, and want of skill, every thing that I did, took
up out of my time: for example, 1 was full two-and.
forty days making me a hoard for a long shelf, which
I wanted in my cave; whereas two sawyers, with
their tools and saw-pit, would have cut six af them
out of the same tree in a half a day.
My case was this: it was to he a large tree which
was to he cut down, hecause my hoard was to he a
hroad one. The tree I was three days a cutting down,
and two more cutting off the houghs, and reducing it
to a log, or piece of timher. With inexpressihle
hacking and hewing | reduced hoth the sides of i;
into chips, till it hegan to he light enough to move;
then I turned it, and made one stde of it smooth and
flat, as a hoard, from end to end : then turning tha
side downward, cut the other side till I hrought the
plank to he ahout three inches thick, and smooth on
hoth sides. Any one may jndge the lahour of my
hands in such a piece of work ; hut lahour and pa-
tience carried me through that and many other things;
1 only ohserve this in particular, to show the reason
why so much of my tune went away with so little
work, viz. that what might he a little to he done with
help and tools, was a vast lahour, and required a pro-
dig:ous time to do alone, and hy hand.
But notwithstanding this, with patience and lahouv,
I went through many things, and indeed every thing
that my circumstances made necessary for me to do,
as will appear hy what follows.
I was now in the months of Novemher and De-
cemher, expecting my crop of harley and rice. The
ground I had manured or dug up for them was not
great; for, as I ohserved, my seed of each was not
ahove the quantity of half a peck : for I had lost one
whole crop hy sowing in tne dry season; hut now
my crop promised very well, when on a sudden I
found I was in danger of losing it all again hy ene-
mies of several sorts, which it was scarce possih,e to
keep from it; as first the goats and wild creatures
which I called hares, which, tasting the sweetness of
the hlade, lav in it night and day as soon as it cam©
up, and ate it so close, that it could get no time to
shoot up into stalks.
This I saw no remedy for, hut hy making an enclo-
sure ahout it with a hedge, which I did with a great
deal of toil; and the more, hecause it required a great
deal of speed; the creatures daily spoiling my corn
However, as my arahle land was hut small, suited to
my crop, 1 got it totally well fenced in ahout three
weeks time, and shooting some of the creatures in the
day-time, 1 set my dog to guard it in the night, tying
him up to a stake at the gate, where he would stand
and hark all night long; so in a little time the ene-
mies forsook the place and the com grew very strong
and well, and hegan to ripen apace
lint as the heasts ruined me hefore, while my com
was in the hlade, so the hirds were as likely to ruin
me now, when it was in the ear; for going alonj hy
the place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop
surrounded with fowls of I know not how many sorts,
which stood as it were watching till I should he gone.
I immediately let fly among them (for I always had
my gun with me.) I had no sooner shot, hut there
arose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen
at all, from among the corn itself.
This touched me sensihly; for I foresaw, that in u
lew day they would devour all my hopes; that I
should he starved, and never he ahle to raise a crop a I
all: and what to do I could not te.i; however, if
resolved not to loose my corn, if possihle, though I
should watch it night and day. In the first place, 1
went among it to see what damage was already done,
and found they had spoiled a good deal of it; hut
that, as it was yet too green for them, the loss wan
not so great, hut the remainder was like to he a goo, I
crop, if it could he saved.
I stayed hy it to load my gun, and then coming
away, I could easily see the thieves sitting upon at,
the ttees ahout me, as if they only waited till I wa.i
gone away, and the event it proved to he so; for asti
walked off as if I was gone, I was no sooner out ct
their sight, hut they dropped down one hy one inta
the corn again. I was so provoked, that I could net
have patience to stay till more came on, knowing that
•very grain that they now ate was, as it might he said,
a peck loaf to me in the consequence; hut coming
to tho hedge, 1 fired again, and killed three of them.
Tins was what I looked for; so I took them up, and
served them as we serve notorious thieves in Eng-
land, viz. hanged them in chains for a terror to others.
It is impossihle to imagine almost, that this should
have such an effect as it had; for the fowls would
not only not come at the com, hut in short they for-
sook all that part of the island, and I could never sea
a hird near the place as long as my scarecrows hung
there.
This I was very glad of, you may he sure; and
almut the latter end of Decemher, which was our
second harvest of the year, I reaped my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a scickle to
cut it down, and ill I could do was to make one as
well as I could out of one of the hroad-swords, or
cutlasses which 1 saved among the arms out of the
ship. However, as my crop was hut small, I had no
great difficuHv to cut it down: in short I reaped H
my way, for ( cut nothing off hut the ears, and car-
ried it away in a great hasket which I had made, and
so ruhhed it out with my hands: and at the end of all
my harvesting I found, that out of my half-peck of
seed I had near two hushels of rice, and ahove two
hushels and a half of harley, that is to say, hy my
guess, for I had no measure at that time.
However, this was a great encouragement to me;
and I foresaw, that in ume it would please God to
supply me with hread: and yet here I was perplexed
agam; for I ne'-iher knew how to grind or make meal
of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it;
nor, if made into meal, how to make hread of it;
and if how to make it, yet I knew not how to hako
h. These things heing added to my desire of having
• good quantity for store, and to secure a constant
supply, I resolved not to taste any of this crop, hut
to preserve it all for seed against the next season, and
in the mean time to employ all my study and hours
of working to accomplish this great work of providing
siyself with corn and hread.
II might he truly raid, that I now worked for my
hread. It is a little wonderful, and what 1 helievo
few people have thought much upon; via. the stmnga
multitude of little things necessary in the providing,
producing, curing, dressing, making, and finishing
this one article of hread.
I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found
this to he my daily discouragement, and was made
more and more sensihle of it every hour, even after
I g,ot the first handful of seed corn, which, as I havo
said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise.
First, I had no plough to turn the earth, no spadu
or shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered hy mak-
ing a wooden spade, as I ohserved hefore; hut this
did my work hut in a wooden manner; and though
it cost me a great many days to make it, yet, for wanr
of iron, it not only wore out the sooner, hut mads
my work the harder, and made it he performed muck
worse.
However, this I hore with too, and was content to
work it out with patience, and hear with the hadnesi
of the performance. When the corn was sowed, I
had no harrow, hut was forced to go over it myseH
and drag a great heavy hough of a tree over it, to
•cratch the earth, as it may he called, rather than rako
or harrow it
.
When it was growing or grown, I have ohserved
already how many things I wanted, to fence it, secure
it, mow or reap it, cure or carry it home, thresh,
part it from the chaff, and save it . Then I wanted a
mill to grind, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to
make it into hread, and an oven to hake it in ; and all
those things I did without, as shall he ohserved ; and
yet the corn was an inestimahle comfort and advan-
tage to me too; hut all this, as I said, made every
thing lahorious and tedious to me, hut that there was
no help for; neither was my time so much loss to me,
hecause I had divided it ; a certain part of it was
•very day appointed to these works; and as 1 resolved
•a use none of the corn for hread till I had a greater
quantity oy me, I had the next six months to applv
my*elf wholly hy lahour and invention, to furnish
myself with utensils proper for the performing all the
operations necessary- for the making the com, when I
had it, fit for my use.
Bui first I was to prepare more land, for t had now
seed enough to sow above an acre of ground. Refo:a
I did this, I had a week's work at least to make me a
spade, which, when it was done, was a very sorry one
indeed, and very heavy, and required douhle lahour
to work with it; however, I went through that, and
sowed my seeds in two large flat pieces of ground, as
near my house as 1 could find them to my mind, mid
fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which
were all cut off that wood which I had set hefore,
which I knew would grow ; so that in one year's tir-s
I knew I should have a quick or living hedge, that
would want hut little repair. This work was not
so little as to take me up less than three months; he-
cause great part of that time was in the wet season,
when 1 could not go ahroad.
Within-door, that is, when it rained, and I could
not go out, I found employment on the following oc-
casion, always ohserving, that all the while I was
at work, I diverted myself with talking to my parrot,
and teaching ..im to speak ; and I quickly learnt him
to know his own name ; at last, to speak it out pretty
loud, Pol; which was the first word lever heard
spoken in the island hy any mouth hut my own. This
therefore was not my work, hut an assistant to my
work; for now, as I said, I had a great employment
upon my hands, as follows: vix. I had long studied,
hy some means or other, to make myself some earthen
vessels, which indeed I wanted sorely, hut knew not
where to come at them: however, considering the
heat of the climate, I did not douht hut, if I could
find out any such clay, I might hotch up some such
pot as might, heing dried hy the sun, he nard enough
end strong enough to hear handling, and to hold any
VOL I
things that was dry, and required to he kept so; ani
as this was necessary in preparing corn, meal, &c.
which was the thing I was upon, I resolved to make
some as large as 1 could, and fit only to stand like
jars to hold what should he put into them
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh
at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to
raise this paste, what odd misshapen ugly things
made, how many of them fell in, and how many fell
out, the clay uot heing stiff enough to hear its own
weight; how many cracked hy the over-violent heat
of the sun, heing set out too hastily; and how many
fell to pieces with only removing, as well hefore as
after they were dried; and, in a word, how, after
having lahoured hard to find the clay, to dig it, to
temper it, to hring it home, and work it, I coul I not
make ahove two large earthen ugly things, 1 cannot
call them jars in ahout two months lahour.
However, as the sun haked these two very dry and
haid, I lifted them very gently up and set them down
again in two great wicker-haskets, which I had made
on purpose for them that they might not hreak ; anrt,
as hetween the pot and the hasket there was a littli
room to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and harley
straw; and these two pots heing to stand always dry,
I thought would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the
meal when the corn A-as hruised,
Though I miscarried so much in my design for
large pots, yet I made several smaller titings with
hetter success; such as little round pots, flat dishes,
pitchers, and pipkins, and any titing my hand turned
to; and the heat of tne sun haked them strangely
bard.
But all this would not answer my end, which waj
a get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and
Tear the fire, which none of these could do. It hap-
pened after some time, making a pretty ta.fi fin for
oooking my meat, when I went to put it iut, afw I
had done with it, I found a hroken pm o" en' A
my earthenware vessels in the fire, hurut ia Ivu.la- a
none, and red as a tile. I was greatly surprised to
see it, and said to myself, that certainly they might ho
made to hurn whole, if they would hum hroken.
This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to
make it hurn me some pots. I had no notion of a
kiln such as the potters hurn in, or of glazing them
with lead, though I had some lead to do it with ; hut
I placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots,
m a pile one upon another, and placed my fire-wood
all round it with a great heap of emhers under them:
1 plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and
upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-hot
quite through, and ohserved that they did not crack
at all: when I saw them clear red, I let them stand
in that heat alrout five or six hours, till I found one
of them, though it did not crack, did melt or tun ; for
the sand which was mixed with the clay melted hy
the violence of the heat, and would have run into
glass, if I had gone on; so I slacked my fire gradtv
ally, till the pots hegan to ahate of the red colour;
and watching them all night that I might not let the
fire ahate too fast, in the morning I had three very
good, I will not say handsome pipkins, and two other
earthen pots, as hard hurnt as could he desired ; and
one of them perfectly glazed with the running of the
sand.
After this experiment 1 need not say that I wanted
no sort of earthenware for my use; hut I must needs
say, as to the shapes of them, they were very indiffer-
ent, as any one may suppose, when I had no way of
making them, hut as the children make dirt-pies, or
as a woman would make pies that never learnt to
raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever
equal to mine, when I found I had made an earthen
pot that would hear the fire; and 1 had hardly pati-
ence to stay till they were cold, hefore 1 set one upon
the fire again with some water in it, to hoil me some
meat, whicii I did admirahly well i and with a piece
of a kid I made some very good hroth, though I
124
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients requl
tite to make it so good as I would have had it
.
My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to
124
was no thought of arriving to that perfection of art
•t a great loss; for of all the trades in the world I was
as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter, as for any
whatever; neither had I any tools to go ahout it with,
1 spent many a day to find out a great stone his
enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and
could find none at all except what was in the solid
rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out; nor
indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness suffi-
cient, hut were all of a sandy crumhling stone, which
would neither hear .'he weight of an heavy pestle, nor
would hreak the corn without filling it with sand; so,
after a great deal of time lost in searching for a stone,
I gave it over, and resolved to look out a great hlock
of hard wood, which I found indeed much easier;
and getting one as hig as I had strength to stir, I
rounded it, and formed it on the outside with my axe
and hatchet; and then with the help of fire and infi-
nite lahour, made an hollow place in it, as the Indi-
ans in Brasil make thiir canoes. After this, I made
a great heavy pestle or heater of the wood called the
iron-wood, ana this I prepared and laid hy against I
had my next crop of corn, when 1 propsed to myseli
to grind or rather pound, my com or meal to make
my hread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve or searee,
to dress my meal, and part it from the hran and the
husk, without which I did not see it possihle I could
have any hread. This was a most difficult thing, so
much as hut to think on; for to he sure I had nothing
like the necessary things to make it with ; I mean fine
thin canvass, or stuff, to searce the meal through.
And here I was at a full stop for many months; nor
did I really know what to do: linen I had none left
but what was mere rags; I had goat's hair, hut neither
with one pair of hands.

knew I how to weave or spin h; and had I known
how, here were no tools to work it with. All the
remedy that I found for this, was, that at last 1 did
rememher I had among the seamen's clothes which
were saved out of the ship, some neckcloths c#calico
or muslin; and with some pieces of these I made
three small serves, hut proper enough for the work;
and thus I made shift for some years; how I did
afterwards, I shall show in its place.
The haking part was the next thing to he considered,
and how I should make hread when I came to have
corn; for, first, I had no yeast: as to that part, there
was no supplying the want, so I did not concern my-
self much ahout it. But for an oven, I was indeed in
great pain. At length I found out an experiment tor
that also, which was this; I made some earthen ves-
sels very hroad, hut not deep; that is to say, ahout
two feet diameter, and not ahove nine inches deep;
these 1 hurnt in the fire, as I had done the other, and
laid them hy; and when I wanted to hake, I made a
great fire upon the hearth, which I had paved with
some square tiles of my own making and hurning
also; hut I should not call them square.
When the fire-wood was hurnt pretty much into
emhers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon this
hearth, so as to cover it all over; and there 1 let
them lie, till the hearth was very hot; then sweeping
away all the emhers, I set down my loaf, or loaves;
and whelming down the earthen pot upon them, drew
the emhers all round the outside of the pot, to keep
la, and add to the heat; and thus, as well as in the
hest ovens in the world, I haked my harley-loaves,
•nd hecame in a little time a mere pastry-cook into
he hargain; for 1 made myself several cakes of the
rice, and puddings; indeed I made no pies, neither
had I any thing to put into them, supposing I had,
except the flesh either of fowls or goats.
It need not he wondered at, if all these things took
me up most part of the third year of my ahode here;
far it is to he ohserved, that in the intervals of these
things I had my new harvest and hushandry to ma
nape: for I reaped my corn in its season, and carried
it home as well as I could, and laid it up in -the ear,
m my large haskets, till I had time to ruh it out; for
I had Vi floor to thresh it on, or instrument to thresh
it with.
And now indeed my stock of corn increasing, I
really wanted to huild my harns higger - I wanted I
p".ace to lay it up in; for the increase of the corn now
yielded me so much, that I had of the harley ahout
twenty hushels, and of the rice as much, or more;
insomuch that I now resolved to hegin to use it freely,
for my hread had heen quite gone a great while ; also
I resolved to see what quantity would he sufficient
for me a whole year, and to sow hut once a year.
Upon the whole, I found that the forty hushels of
harley and rice were much more than I could con-
sume in a year: so I resolved to sow just the same
Suantity every year that I sowed the last, in hopes
lat such a quantity would fully provide me with
hread, &c.
All the while these things were doing, you may he
sure my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect
of land which I had seen upon the other side of the
island; and 1 was not without secret wishes, that 1
was on shore there, fancying that seeing the main
land, and an inhahited country, f might find some
way or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps
at last find some means of escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the
dangers of such a condition, and how I might fall
into the hands of savages, and perhaps such as I
might have reason to think far worse than the lion•
and tigers of Africa: that if I once came into thei
power, 1 should run an hazard more than a thousaid
to one of heing killed, and perhaps of heing eaten \
for 1 had heard that the people of the Cariheanconsis
were cannihals, or men-eaters; and I knew hy the
latitude that 1 could not he far off from that shore
that, suppose they were not cannihals, yet they mighi
127
ktll me, as many Europeans who had fahen mto theit
hands had heen served, even when they had heen tea
or twenty together: much more I that was hut one,
and could make little or no defence. All these things,
I say, which I ought to have considered well of, and
I did cast up in my thoughts afterwards, yet took
none of my apprehensions at first; and my head ran
mightily upon the thoughts of getting over to that
ihore.
Now 1 wished for my hoy Xury, and the long-hoat,
with the shoulder of mutton sail, with which 1 sailed
ahove a thousand miles on the coast of Africa; hut
titis was in vain. Then I thought I would go and
look on our ship's ooat, which, as I have said, was
hlown up upon the shore a great way in the storm,
when we were first cast away. She lay almost where
the did at first hut not quite; and was turned hy the
force of the waves and the winds almost hottom up-
wards, against the high ridge of a heachy rough sand,
1 ut no water ahout her as hefore.
If I had had hands to have refitted her, and have
launched her into the water, the hoat would have done
well enough, and I might have gone hack into the
Itrasils with her easy enough; hut I might have easily
foreseen that I could no more turn her, and set her
i pright upon her hottom, than I could remove the
bland. However, 1 went to the wood, and cut levers
and rollers, and hrought them to the hoat, resolving to
try what I could do; suggesting to myself, that if I
could hut turn her down, I might easily repair the
damage she had received, and she would he a very
good hoat, and I might go to sea in her very easily.
1 spared no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless
toil, and spent, I think, three or four weeks ahout it;
at last finding it impossihle to heave it up with my
little strength, I fell to digging away the sand to un-
dermine It; and so to make it fall down, setting pieces
of wood to thrust and guide it right in the fall.
But when I had done this, I was unahle to stir it
•p agam, or to get under it, much less to move it
forwards towards the water; to 1 was fhreed to rivs
tt over; and, yet though I gave over the hopes of the
hoat, my desire to venture over for the main incrras'
edt rather than decreased, as the means of it seemed
impossihle.
This at length set me upon thinking whether it was
not possihle to make myself a canoe or periagua, such
•s the natives of those climates make, even without
ools, or, as 1 might say, without hands, viz. of the
trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought possi
hle, hut easy; and pleased myself extremely w:th n.y
thoughts of making it, and with my having much mo:e
convenience for it than any of the Negroes or Indi-
ans; hut not at all considering the particular inconve-
nience which I lay under more than the Indians did,
vis. want of hands to move it into the water, when
it was made: a difficulty much harder for me to sur-
mount than all the consequences of want of tools
could he to them: for what was it to me that when I
had chosen a vast tree in the woods, I might with
great trouhle cut it down, if after I might he ahle with
my tools to hew and duh the outside into a proper
shape of a hoat, and hurn or cut out the inside to
make it hollow, so as to make a hoat of it, if, after all
this, I must leave it just there where I found it, and
was not ahle to launch it into the water?
One would have thought I could not have had the
least reflection upon my mind of this circumstance,
while I was making this hoat, hut I should have im-
mediatelv thought how t should get it into the sea:
hut my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage over
the sea in it, that I never once considered how I
should get it off the land ; and it was really in its own
nature more easy for ine to guide it over foity-nva
miles of sea, than ahout forty-five fathoms of land,
where it lay, to set it afloat in the water.
I went to work upon this hoat the most like a fool
that ever man did, who had any of his senses awake,
I pleased myself with the design, without determin-
ing whether I was ever ahle to undertake it; not hut
129
that the difficulty of launching my hoat came often
Into my head; hut 1 put a stop to my own inquiries
into it hy this foolish answer, which 1 gave myself;
Let me first make it, I'll warrant PII find some way
or other to get it along, when it is done.
This was a most preposterous method; hut the eager
ness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went, and
felled a cedar tree: I question much whether Solomon
ever had such an one for the huilding the temple at
Jerusalem ; it was five feet ten inches diameter at the
lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven inches
diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it
lessened for a while, and then it parted into hranches.
It was not without infinite lahour that I felled this
tree: I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it at
the hottom ; I was fourteen more getting the hranchei
and limhs, and the vast spreading head of it, cut off.
which I hacked and hewed through with my axe ana
hatchet, with inexpressihle lahour: after this it cost
me a month to shape it, and duh it to a proportion,
and to something like the hottom of a hoat, that it
might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near
three months more to clear the inside, and work it
out so as to make an exact hoat of it: this I did in-
deed without fire, hy mere mallet and chissel, and hy
the dint of hard lahour; till I had hrought it to he a
very handsome periagua, and hig enough to have car-
ried six-and-twenty men, and consequently hig enough
to have carried me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was ex-
tremely delighted with it: the hoat was really much
higger than I ever saw a canoe or periagua, that was
made of one tree, in my life ; many a wearj. stroke it
had cost, you may he sure, for there remained nothing
hut to get it into the water; and had 1 gotten it into
the water, I make no question hut I should have he-
gun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to he
performed, that ever was undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed
me, though they cost infinite lahour too; it lay ahout
one hunrlred yards from the water, and not more;
hin the first inconvenience was, it was up hill towards
the creek. Well, to take away this discouragement,
I resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so
make a declivity; this 1 hegan, and it cost me a pro-
digious deal of pains: hut who grudge pains, that
have their deliverance in view? hut when this was
worked through, and this difficulty managed, it was
still much at one; for 1 could no more stir the canoe,
than I could the other hoat.
Then 1 measured the distance of ground, and re-
solved to cut a dock, or canal, tn hring the water up
to the canoe, seeing I could not hring the canoe down
to the water; well, I hegan this work, and when I
hegan to enter into it, and calculated how deep it was
to he dug, hew hroad, how the stuff to he thrown out,
I found, that hy the numher of hands I had, heing
none hut my own, it must have heen ten or twelve
years hefore I should have gone through with it; for
the shore lay high, so that at the upper end it must
have heen at least twenty feet deep: so at length, though
with great reluctancy, I gave this attempt over also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though
too late, the folly of heginning a work hefore we count
the cost, and hefore we judge rightly of our own
strength to go through with it.
In the middle of this work I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with the
same devotion, and with as much comfort, as ever
hefore ; for hy a constant study, and serious applica-
tion of the word of God, and hy the assistance of his
trace, I gained a different knowledge from what I
nad hefore ; 1 entertained different notions of things;
1 looked now upon the world as a thing remote;
which I had nothing to do with, no expectation from,
and indeed no des:res ahout: in a word, I had no-
thing indeed to do with it, nor was ever like to have)
so I thought it looked as we may perhaps look upon
It hereafW viz. as a place I had lived in, hut was
131
come out of it; and well I might Bay, as fatner Ahra-
ham to Dives, "Between me and thee there is a
great gulph fixed."
In the first place, I was removed from all the wick-
edness of the world here: I had neither the lust ol
the flesh, the lust of the eye, or the pride of life : I
had nothing to covet, for I had all I was now capahle
of enjoying; 1 was lord of the whole manor, or, if 1
pleased, 1 might call myself king or emperor over il:a
whole country which 1 had possession of: there were
no rivals: I had no competitor, none to dispute sove-
reignty or command with me; 1 might have raised
ship-loads of corn, hut I had no use for it; so 1 les
as little grow as I thought enough for my occasion i
I had tortoise or turtles enough; hut now and then
one was as much as I could put to any use: I had
timher enough to have huilt a fleet of ships; I had
grapes enough to have made wine, or to have cured
into raisins, to have loaded that fleet when they had
heen huilt.
But all I could make use nf, was all that was valu-
ahle: I had enough to eat, and to supply my wants,
and what was all the rest to me? 1f i killed more
flesh than 1 could cat, the dog must eat it, or the ver-
min; if I sowed more corn than I could eat, it must
he spoiled. The trees that i cut down were lying to
rot on the ground, I could make no more use of them
than for fuel; and that I had no occasion for, hut to
dress my food.
In a word, the nature and experience of things dic-
tated to me upon just reflection, that all the good
things of this world are no farther good to us, than as
they are for our use : and that whatever we may heap
up indeed to give to others, we enjoy as much as we
can use, and no more. The most coveteous griping
miser in the world would have heen cured of the vice
of coveteousness, if he had heen in my case; fot I
possessed infinitely more than I knew what to do
with. I had no room for desire, except it was ol
v were hut trifles,
titings which 1
not, and they'

though indeed of great use to me. 1 had, as I hintert 5
hefore, a parcel of money, as well gold as silver, S
ahout thirty-six pounds sterling; alas! there the nasty, c
sorry, useless stuff lay; I had no manner of husiness J
for it; and I often thought with myself, that I would 5
have given an handful of it for a gross of tohacco- s
pipes, or for an hand-mill to grind my corn ; nav, I
would have given it all for six-penny-worth of turnip 5
and carrot seed out of England, or for an handful of .
peas and heans, and a hottle of ink . as it was, I had
not the least advantage hy it, or henefit from it; hut
there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy with the
damp of the cave, in the ,vet season: and if I had
had the drawer full of diamonds, it had heen the same
case; and they had heen of no manner of value to
me hecause of no use.
I had now hrought my state of life to he much
easier in itself than it was at first, and much easier to
my mind, as well as to my hody. I frequently sat
down to my meat with thankfulness, and admired the 5
hand of God's providence, which had thus spread my j
tahle in the wilderness: I leam to look more upon
the hright side of my condition, and less upon the
dark side; and to consider what I enjoyed, rather
than what I wanted; and this gave me sometimes such
secret comforts, that I cannot express them; and
which f took notice of here, to put those discontented
people in mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortahly
what God hath given them, hecause they see and covet
something that he has not given them: all our discon-
tents ahout what we want, appeared to me to spring
from the want of thankfulness for what we have.
Another reflection was of great use to me, and
douhtless would he so to any one that should fall into
snch distress as:nine was; and this was to compare my
present con 'ition with what I at first expected it should
he ; nay, with what it would certainly have heen, if the
good providence of God had not wonderfully ordered
the ship to he cast up near to the shore, where I not
only a&ti cc
i at her, hut "ould hring what I got

out of her to the shore for my relief ami cow fan ,
without which I had wanted tools to uork, weapons
for defence, or gunpowder and shot for getting my
food
I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in re-
presenting to myself in the most lively colours, how 1
must have acted, if f had got nothing out of the ship;
how I could not have so much as got any food, ex-
cept fish and turtles; and that, as it was long hefore I
found any of them, I must have perished first: that I
should have lived, if I had not perished, like a mere
savage - that if I had killed a goat or a fow' hy any
contrivance, I had no wa> to flay or open them, or
part the flesh from the skin and the howels, or to cut
tt up; hut must |piaw it with my teeth, and pull it
with my claws, like a heast.
These reflections made me very sensihle of the goodV
ness of Providence to me. and very thankful for my
present condition, with all its hardships and misfor-
tunes: and this part also I cannot hut recommend Kr
the reflection of those who are apt in their misery to
say, Is any affliction like mine? Let them consider,
how much worse the cases of some people are, and
what their case might have heen, if Providence had
thought fit
.
I had another reflection which assisted me also to
comfort my mind with hopes; and this was compar-
ing my present condition with what I had deserved,
and had therefore reason to expect from the hand of
Providence. I had l:ved a dreadful life, perfectly des-
titute of the knowledge and fear of God; I had heen
well instructed hy father and mother; neither had they
heen wanting to me in their early endeavours to infuse
a religious awe of Owl into my mind, a sense of my
duty, and of what the nature and end of my heing re*
quired of me But, alas! falling early into the sea-
faring life, which of all the lives is the most destitute
of the fear of God, though his terrors are always he-
fore them; I say, falling early into the seafaring life,
end into seafaring company, all that little sense of re-
iigion which I had entertained, was laughed out of me
hy my messmates; hy an hardened despising of dan-
gers, and the views of death, which grew hahitual to
me; hy my long ahsence from all manner of oppor-
tunities to converse with any thing hut what was like
myself, or to hear any thing of what was good, or
tended towards it.
So void was I of every thing that was good, or of
the least sense of what 1 was, or was to he, that in the
greatest deliverance I enjoyed, such as my escape from
Sallee, my heing taken up hy the Portuguese master
of the ship my heing planted so well in Brasil, my
receiving the cargo from England, and the like I never
once had the words, Thank God, so much as on my
mind, or in my mouth ; nor in the greatest distress
had I so much thought as to pray to him; nor so
much as to say Lord, have mercy upon me ! no, not
to mention the name of God, unless it was to swear
hy, and hlaspheme it.
1 had terrihle reflections upon my mind for many
months, as 1 have already ohserved, on the account of
my wicked and hardened life past; and when I looked
ahout me, and considered what particular providen-
ces had attended me, since my coming into this place,
and how God had dealt hountifully with me; had
not only punished me less than my iniquity deserved,
hut had so plentifully provided for me; this gave me
great hopes that my repentance was accepted, and
that Goo had yet mercies in store for me.
With these reflections I worked my mind up, not
only tc resignation to the will of God in the present
disposition of my circumstances, hut even to a sincere
thankfulness of my condition; and that I, who was
yet a living man, ought not to complain, seeing f had
not the due punishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so
many mercies, which I had no reason to have expected
in that place, that 1 ought nevermore to repine at my
condition, hut to rejoice, and to give daily thanks,
for that daily hread, which nothing hut a cloud of
wonders could have hrought: that I ought to consider
I had heen fed even hy a miracle, even as great as
thai of feeding Elijah hy ravens; nay, hy a long series
of miracles; and that I could hardly have named a
place in the uninhahited part of the world, where I
could have heen cast more to my advantage; a place,
where as I had no society, which was my affliction
on one hand, so I found no ravenous heast, no furious
wolves or tigers, to threaten my life; no venomous
creatures, or poisonous, which I might have fed on to
my hurt; no savages to murder anu devour me.
In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way,
so it was a life of mercy another; and I wanted no-
thing to make it a life of comfort, hut to he ahle to
make my sense of God's goodnes to me, and care
over me in this condition, he my daily consolation;
and after I made a just improvement of these titings,
I went away, and was no more sad.
I had now heen here so long, that many things
which 1 hrought on shore for my help, were either
quite gone, or very much wasted, and near spent.
My ink, as I ohserved, had heen gone for some
time, all hut a very little, which I eked out with water
• little and a little, till it was so pale it scarce left any
appearance of hlack upon the paper: as long as it
lasted, I made use of it to minute down the days of
the month on which any remarkahle thing happened
to me; and first, hy casting up times past, I remem-
her that there was a strange concurrence of days in
the various providences which hefel me, and which,
if I had heen supersticiously inclined to ohserve days
as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason to havo
looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had ohserved, that the same day that 1
hroke away from my father and my friends, and ran
away to Hull in order to go to sea, the same day af-
terwards I was taken hy the Sallee man of war, and
diade a slave.
The same day of the year that 1 escaped out of the
wreck of the ship in Yarmouth Roads, Hit same day
10
of the year afterwards I made my escape from Sailee
m tho hoat
.
The same day of the year I was horn on, viz. the
20th of Septemher, the same day I had my lite so mi- J
raculot:sly saved twenty-six years after, when 1 was 5
cast on shore in this island; so that my wicked life,
and solitary life, hoth hegan on a day.
The next thing to my mk's heing wasted, was thai
of my hread, I mean the huiscuit which I hrought out
of the ship. This I had hushanded to the last degree
allowing myself hut one cake of hread a day, for
ahove a year: and yet I was quite without hread for
a year hefore 1 got any corn of my own : and great
reason I had to he thankful that I had any at all, the
getting it heing, as has heen already ohserved, next to
miraculous.
My clothes too hegan to decay mightily: as to linens
) had none a good while, except some chequred shirts 5
which I found in the chests of the other seamen, and 5
which 1 carefully preserved, hecause many times I J
could hear no other clothes on hut a shirt; and it was
a very great help to me, that I had among all the
men's clothes of the ship almost three dozen of shirts.
There were also several thick watch-coats of the sea-
men, which were left hehind, hut they were too hot
to wear; and though it is true, that the weathei was
so violent hot, that there was no need of clothes, yet
1 could not go quite naked; no, though I had heen
Inclined to it, which I was not; nor could I ahide
the thought of it, though I was all alone.
One reason why I could not go quite naked, was
I could not hear the heat of the sun so well when
quite naked as with some clothes on ; nay, the very
heat frequently hlistered my skin; whereas, with a
shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and whist
ling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than without
it; no more could I ever hring myself to go out in
the heat of the sun without a cap or a hat: the heat
of the sun heat:ng with such violence as it does in that
place, would give me the headach presently, hy dart-
ing so directly on my head, without a cap or hat ot\
so that I could not hear tt; whereas, if t put on my
hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these views 1 hegan to consider ahout putting
the tew rags 1 had, which I called clothes, into some
order, I had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and
my husiness was now to try if I could not make
Jackets out of the great watch-coats which I had \f
me, and with such other materials as I had; so I set
to work Iv-tailoring, or rather indeed a-hotching ; for
I made most piteous work of it. However, I made
shift to make two or three waistcoats, which I hoped
would serve me a great while; as for hreeches or
drawers, I made hut very sorry shift indeed, till a£-
wards.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the
creatures that 1 killed, I mean four footed ones; and
I had hung them up stretched out with sticks in the
run; hy which means some of them were so dry and
I ard, that they were fit for little ; hut others, it seems,
were very useful. The first thing I made of these
was a great cap for my head, with the hair on the out-
side to shoot off the rain; and this I performed so
well, that after this I made a suit of clothes wholly
of those skins; that is to say, a waistcoat and hreeches
open at the knees, and hoth loose; for they were ra-
ther wanted to keep me cool, than to keep me warm.
I must not omit to acknowledge, that they were
wretchedly made ; for if I was a had carpenter, I was
a worse tailor : however, they were such as I made a
very good shift with; and when I was ahroad, if it
happened to rain, the hair of the waistcoat and cap
De:ng outmost, I was kept very dry.
After this 1 spent a deal of time and pains to make
me an umhrella: I was indeed in great want of one,
and had a great mind to make one: I had seen them
made in the Bras'ds, where they are very useful in the
gieat heats which are there ; and I felt the heats every
jut as great here, and greater too, heing nearer the
eqinox; hesides, as f was ohliged to he much ahroad,
it was a most useful thing to me, as well for the rains
as the heats. I took a world of pains at it, and was a
great while hefore I could male any thing likely to
hold; nay, after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled
two or three hefore I made one to my mind; hut at
last I made one that answered indifferently well. The
main difficulty I found was to make it to let down
I could make it to spread; hut if it did not let down
too, and draw in, it would not he portahle for me
any way, hut just over my head, which would not do.
However, at last, as I said, I made one to answer;
I covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it
cast off the rain like a penthouse, and kept offthe sun
so effectually, that I could walk out in the hottest of
the weather, with greater advantage than I could he-
fore in the coolest; and when I had no need of it, 1
could close it, and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortahly, my mind oe:ng
entirely composed hy resigning to the will of God,
and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of bis
providence; this made my life hetter than sociahle;
for when I hegan to regret the want of conversation,
I would ask myself, whether thus conversing mutu-
ally with my own thoughts, and as I hope I may say,
with even my Maker, hy ejaculations and petitions,
was not hetter than the utmost enjoyment of human
society in the world?
i cannot say, that after this, for five years, any ex
tiaordinary thing happened to me; hut I lived on in
the same course, in the same postoie and place, jusl
as hefore. The chief thing 1 was employed in, he-
sides my yearly lahour of planting my harley and rice
and curing my raisins, of hoth which I always kept
up just enough to have sufficient stock of the year's
provision heforehand; I say, hesides this yearly la-
bour, and my daily lahour of going out with my gun,
I had one lahour to make me a canoe, which at last I
finished: so that hy digging a canal to it, six feet
wide, and four feet deep, I hrought it into the creek,

almost half a mile. As for the first, that was so vastly
hig, as I made it without considering heforehand, as
I ought to do, how I should he ahle to launch it; so
never heing ahle to hring it to the water, or hring the
water to it, I was ohliged to let it lie where it was,
as a memorandum to teach me to he wiser next time.
Indeed the next time, though I could not get a tree
proper for it, and was in a place where I could not
get the water to it at any less distance than, as I have
said, of near half a mile; yet as I saw it was practi-
cahle at last, I never gave it over; and though I was
near two years ahout it, yet I never jrudged my la-
hour, in hopesof having a hoat to go on to sea at least.
However, though my little periagua was finished,
yet the size of it was not at all answerahle to the de-
sign which I had in view, when I made the first; 1
mean of venturing over to the Terra Firma, where it
was ahove forty miles hroad; accordingly, the small-
ness of my hoat assisted to put an end to that design,
and now I thought no more of it . But as I had a
hoat, my next design was to make a tour round the
island: for as I had heen on the other side, in one
place, crossing, as I have already descrihed it, over
the land, so the discoveries I made in that journey
made me very eager to see the other parts of the
coast; and now I nad a hoat, I thought of nothing
hut sailing round the island.
For this purpose, and that 1 might do every thins;
with discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little
mast to my hoat, and made a sail to it out of some of
the pieces of the ship's sail, which lay in store, and
of which I had a great store hy me.
Having fitted my mast and sail,and tried the hoat,
I found she would sail very well. Then 1 made litife
lockers and hoxes at each end of my hoat, to put pro.
visions, necessaries and ammunition, &c. into, to
he kept dry, either from rain, or the spray of the sea;
and a little long hollow place I cut in the inside of
the hoat, where I could lay my gun, making a flap to
hang down over it to keep it dry.
I fixed my umhrella also in a step at the stern, like
a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat ol
the sun off me, like an awning; and thus I every now
and then took a little voyage upon the sea, hut never
went far out, nor far from the little creek ; hut at last,
heing eager to view the circumference of my little
kingdom, I resolved upon my tour, and accordingly
I victualled my ship for the voyage; putting in two
dozen of my loaves (cakes I should rattier call them)
of harely-hrcad; an earthen pot full of parched rice,
a food I ate a great deal of, a little hottle of roin, half
a goat, and powder with shot for killing more, and
two large watch-coats, of those which, as I mentioned
hefore, I had saved out of the seamen's chests ; these
I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover me in
the night
.
It was the 6th of Novemher, in the sixth year of
my reign, or my captivity, which you please, that 1
set out on this vovage, and 1 found it much longei
than I expected; for though the island itself was not
very large, yet when I catne to the east side of it, 1
found a great ledge of rocks lie out ahout two leagues
into the sea, some ahove water, some under it; and
heyond this a shoal of sand, lying dry half a league
more; so that I was ohliged to go a great way out to
sea to doule that point.
When I first discovered them, I was going to give
over my enterprise, and comc hack again, not know-
ing how far it might ohlige me to go out to sea, and
ahove all, douhting how I should go hack attain ; so I
came to an anchor, for I had made me a kind of an
anchor with a piece of a hroken grappling which 1
got out of the ship.
Having secured my hoat, I took my gun, and went
on shore, climhing up an hill, which seemed to over
look that point, where I saw the full extent of it, ar.d
resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood,
I perceived a strong, and indeed a most furious cur-
sent, which ran to the east, even cat- u close to the
141
point and I took the more notice or It, tecausc 1
saw there might he some danger, that when I came
into it, I might he carried cut to sea hy the strength
of it, and not he ahle to make the island again. And
indeed, had I not gotten first upon this hill, I helieve
it would have heen so; for there was the same current
on the other side of the island, only that it set off at
a farther distance ; and I saw there was a strong eddy
under the shore; so I had nothing to do hut to get
out of the first current, and 1 should presently he in
an eddy.
1 lay here, however, two days; hecause the wind
hlowing pretty fresh (at E S. E. and that heing just
contrary to the said current) made a great hreach of
the sea upon the point; so that it was not safe for me
to keep too close to the shore for the hreach, nor to
go too far off hecause of the stream.
The third day in the mormng, the wind having
ahated over-night, the sea was calm, and I ventured;
hut I am a warning-piece again to all rash and igno-
rant pilots ; for no sooner was I come to the point,
when I was not my hoat's length from the shore, hut
I found myself in a great depth of water, and a cur-
rent like a sluice of a mill. It carried my hoat along
with it with such violence, that all I could do could
not keep her so much as on the edge of it; hut I found
it hurried me farther and farther out from the eddy,
which was on the left hand. There was no wind stir-
ring to help me, and all that I could do with my
paddles signified nothing; and now I hegan to give
myself over for lost; for, as the current was on hoth
sides the island, I knew in a few leagues distance they
must join again, and then I was irrecoverahly gone;
nor did I see any possihility of avoiding it; so that I
had no prospect hefore me hut of perishing; not hy
the sea, for that was calm enough, hut of starving for
hunger. I had indeed found a tortoise on the shore,
as hig almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into
the hoat; and I had a great iar of fresh water, that
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
this to heing driven into the vast ocean, where to ha
sure, there was no shore, no main land or island, for
a thousand leagues at least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence
of God to make the most miserahle condition that
mankind could he in, worse. Now I looked hack
npon ray desolate solitary island, as the most pleasant
place in the world, and all the happiness my heart
,»uld wish for, was to he there again . I stretched out
mv hands to it with eager wishes; "O happy desert!'
said I, " I shall never see the more! O miserahle
creature!" said I, "whither am I going!" Then I
reproached myself with my unthankful temper, and
how I had repined at my solitary condition : and now
what would I give to he on shore there again ? Thus
we never see the true state of our condition, till it is
illustrated to us hy its contraries ; nor know how to
value what we enjoy, hut hy the want of it . It is
scarce possihle to imagine the consternation I was
now in, heing driven from my heloved island (for so it
appeared to me now to he) into the wide ocean, al-
most two leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever
recovering it again: however, I worked hard, till in-
deed my strength was almost exhausted; and kept
my hoat as much to the northward, that is, towards
the side of the current which the eddy lay on, as pos-
sihly I could; when ahout noon, as the sun passed the
meridian, I thought I felt a little hreeze of winJ in
my face springing up from the S. S. E. This cheered
my heart a little, and especially when in ahout half
an hour more it hlew a pretty small gentle gale. By
this time I was gotten at a frightful distance from the
island; and, had the least cloud or hazy weather in-
tervened, I had heen undone another way too; for I
had no compass on hoard, and •should never have
known how to have steered towards the island, if I
had hut once lost sight of it; hut the weather contin-
uing clear, 1 applied myself to get up my mast agaiBi
and spread my sail standing away to the north as
much as possihle, to get out of the current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the hoat
hegan to stretch away, I saw even hy the clearness of
the water, some alteration of the current was near;
for where the current was so strong, the water was
foul; hut perceiving the water clear, I found the cur-
rent ahate, and presently I found to the east, at ahout
half a mile, a hreach of the sea upon some rocks t
these rocks I found caused the current to part again
and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly
leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other re-
turned hy the repulse of the rock, and made a strong
eddy, which ran hack again to the north-west with a
vary sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve
hrought to them upon the ladder, or to he rescued
from thieves just going to murder them, or who have
heen in such like extremeties, may guess what my
present surprise of joy was, and how gladly 1 put my
hoat into the stream of this eddy; and the wind also
freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it, running
cheerfully hefore the wind, and with a strong tide or
•ddy under foot
.
This eddy carried me ahout a league in my way
hack again directly towards the island, hut ahout two
leagues more towards the northward than the current
lay, which carried me away at first; so that when I
came near the island, I found myself open to the
northern shore of it, that is to say, the other end of
the island, opposite to that which 1 went out fron\
When I had made something more than a lea^ta
of way hy the help of this current or eddv, I found
rt was spent, and served me no farther. However i
found, that heing hetween the two great currents, viz.
that on the south side which had hurried me away
and that on the north which lay ahout two leagues
on the other side; I say, hetween these two,in the
west of the island, I found the water at least still,
and running no way ; and having still a hreeze ol
wind fair for me, 1 kept on steering directly forths
ssland,though not makingsuch fresh wayas hefore.

MFE AND ADVENTURES
Ahout four o'clock in the evening, heing ihen withhi
ahout a league of the island. I found the point of the
rocks which occasioned the distance stretching out at
is descrihed hefore, to the southward, and casting ofl
the current more southwardly, had of course made
another eddy to the north; and this I found very
strong, hut directly setting the way my course lay,
which was due west, hut almost full north. However,
having a fresh gale, Istretched across this eddy slant-
lng north-west, and in ahout an hour came within
ahout a mile of the shore, where, it heing smooth wa-
ter, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave
God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside
all thoughts of my deliverance hy my hoat; and re-
freshing myself with such things as I had, I hrought
my hoat close to the shore, in a little cove that 1 had
espied under some trees, and laid me down to sleep,
heing quill spent with the lahour and fatigue of the
vovage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get horm»
with my hoat; I had run so much hazard, and knew
too much the case to think of attempting it hy thu
way I went out; and what might he at the other sido
(I mean the west side) I knew not, nor had I any
mind to run any more ventures; so I only resolved
in the morning to make my way westward along the
shore, and to see if there was no creek where I might
lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have her again h
I wanted her. In ahout three miles, or thereahouts,
coasting the shore, I came to a very good inlet, or
hay, ahout a mile over, which narrowed till it came
to a very little rivulet, or hrook, where 1 found a con-
venient harhour for my hoat, and where she lay as
If she had heen in a little dock made on purpose for
her; here I put in, and having stowed my hoat very
safe I went on shore to look ahout me, and see whet
I was.
I soon found f had hut a little passed hy the place
where I had heen hefore when I travelled on foo* to

that shore; so taking nothing out of my hoat hut my
gun and my umhrella, for it was exceeding hot, I
Degan my march: the way was comfortahle enough
after such a voyage as 1 had heen upon, and I reached
my old hower in the evening, where I found every
thing standing as I left it; for I always kept it in good
order, heing, as I said hefore, my country-no use.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade
to rest my limhs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep-
hut judge you if you can, that read my story, what a
surpries I must he in when I was awaked out of my
sleep hy a voice calling me hy my name several times,
"Rohin, Rohin, Rohin Crusoe? Where are you?
Where have you heen?"
1 was so dead asleep at first, heing fatigued with
rowing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of
the day, and walking the latter part, that I aid not
awake thoroughly ; and dozing hetween sleeping and
waking, thought I dreamed that somehody spoke to
me : hut as the voice continued to repeat Rohin Cru-
soe, Rohin Crusoe; at last 1 hegan to awake more
perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frighted, and
startled up in the utmost consternation : hut no sooner
were my eyes open, hut 1 saw my Pol sitting on the
top of the hedge, and immediately knew that this was
he that spoke to me : for just in such hemoaning lan-
guage I had used to talk to him, and teach him ; and
he had learnt it so perfectly, that he would sit upon
my finger, and lay his hill close to my face, ami cry,
"Poor Rohin Crusoe, where are you? Where have
rm heen? How came you here ?" and such things as
had taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the parrot,
and that indeed it could he no hody else, it was a good
while hefore I could compose myself. First, I was
amazed how the creature got thither, and then how he
should just keep a tout the place, and no where else:
hut as I whs we'' satisfied It txiuVI he ,:ohodj hut ho-
VoL. 1
nest Pol, I got it over; and holding out my hand, and
calling him hy his name. Pol, the sociahle creature
came to me, and snt upon my thumh, as he used to
do, and continued talking to me, Poor Rohin Crusoe
and, how did I come here? and where had I heen',
just as if he had heen overjoyed to see me again ; and
so I carried him home along with me.
I had now had enough oframhling to sea for some
time, and had enough to do for many days to sit still
and reflect upon the danger I had heen in. I would
have heen very glad to have had my hoat again on
my side of the island, hut I knew not how it wat
practicahle to get it ahout: as to the east side of the
island, which I had gone round, I knew well enough
there was no venturing that way; my very heart would
shrink, and my very hlood run chill, hut to think of
it: and to the other side of the island, I did not know
how it might he there; hut supposing the currant ran
with the same force against the shore at the east, as it
passed hy it on the other, I might run the same risk
of heing driven down the stream, and carried hy the
island, as 1 had heen hefore of heing carr:ed away
from it. So with these thoughts I contented myself
to he without any hoat, though it had heen the pro-
duct of so many months lahour to make it, and of so
many more to get it into the sea.
In this government of my temper 1 remained near
a year, lived a very sedate retired life, as you may
well suppose ; and my thoughts heing very much com-
posed, as to my condition, and fully comforted in re-
signing myself to the disposition of Providence, 1
thought I lived really very happily in all things, ex-
cept that of society.
I improved myself in this time, in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon applytng
myself to; and I helieve could, upon occasion, have
made a very good carpenter, especially considering
how frw tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection
m my earthen* s~e, ard cuotr'veo well enough te
IJ7
make them with a wheel, which I found infinitely
easier and hetter; hecause I made things round and
shapcahle, which hefore were filthy things indeed tc
look on. But I think 1 never was more vain of my
own performance, or more joyful for any thing I found
out, than for my heing ahle to make a tohacco-pipe;
and though it was a very ugly clumsy thing when U
was done, and only hurnt red like other earthenware,
yet as it was hard and firm, and would draw the
•moke, I was exceedingly comforted with it; for I
had heen always used to smoke, and there were pipes
in the ship, hut I forgot them at first, not knowing
there was tohacco in the island; and afterwards,
when I searched the ship again, 1 could not come at
auy pipes at all.
In my wicker-ware I also improved much, and
made ahundance of necessary haskets, as well as my
invention shewed me, though not very handsome, yet
•onvenient for my laying things up in, or fetching
things home in. For example, if I killed a goat,
ahroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flay it, and dress
t, and cut it in pieces, and hring it home in a hasket t
and the like hy a turtle; I could cut it up, take out
the eggs and a piece or two of the flesh, which was
enough for me, and hring them home in a hasket, and
leave the rest hehind me. Also large deep haskets
were my receivers for my com, which I always ruh
hed out as soon as it was dry, and cured; and kept
it in great haskets instead of a granary.
1 hegan now to perceive my powder ahated consi-
derahly; and this was a want which it was impossi-
hle for me to supply, and I hegan seriously to consider
what I must do when I should have no more powder;
rliat is to say, how I should do to kill any goats. I
had, as I ohserved, in the third year of my heing here,
kept a youg kid, and hred her tame; I was in hopes
of gett:ng an he kid, hut I could not hy any means
hring it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat; and I
could never find in my heart to kill tier, till she died
at last of mere ago.
But heing now in the eleventh year of my rest
deuce, and, as 1 have said, my ammumtion growing
low, I set myself to study some art to trap and snare
tlit- goats, to see whether I could not catch some of
them alive; and particularly I wanted a she-goat
great with young.
To this purpose I made snares to hamper them,
and helieve they were more than once taken in them;
hut my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and
always found them hroken, and my hait devoured.
At length I resolved to try a pitfall; so I dug se-
veral large pits in the earth, in places where 1 had
ohserved the goats used to feed, and over these pits I
placed hurdles of my own making too, with a great
weight upon them; and several times I put ears of
harley, and dry rice, without setting the trap; and I
could easily perceive, that the goats had gone in, and
eaten up the corn, that I could see the mark of their
feet: at length, I set three traps in one night, and
going the next morning, I found them all standing,
and yet the hait eaten and gone. This was very dis-
couraging; huwever, 1 altered my trap; and, not to
trouhle you with particulars, going one morning to
see my traps, I found in one of them a large old he-
goat ; and m one of the other, three kids, a male and
two females.
As to the old one, 1 knew not what to do with
him; he was so fierce I durst not go into the pit to
him; that is to say, to go ahout to hring him away
&hve, which was what 1 wanted; I could have killed
him, hut that was not my husiness, nor would it an-
swer my end; so I e'en lat him out, and he ran awaj
as if he had heeu frighted out of his wits; hut I did
not then know what I afterwards learnt, ihat hunger
would tame a lion: if 1 had let him stay there three
or four days without food, and then have carried him
some water to drink, and then a little corn, he would
have heen as tame as one of the kids; foi they are
mighty sagacious tractable creatures, where they art
well used.
However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
hs,ter at that time; then I went to the three kids ,
an J, taking them one hy one, 1 tied them with strings
together; and with some difficulty hrought them all
homo.
It was a good while hefore they would feed; hut
throwing them some sweet corn it tempted them, and
they hegan to he tame : and now I found, that if f
expected to supply myself with goats fl°sh, when I
tad no powder or shot left, hreeding some up tame
was my only way, when perhaps I might have the:n
ahout my house like a flock of sheep.
But then it presently occurred to me, that I must
keep the tame from the wild, or else they would aW
ways run wild when they grew up ; and the only wav
'or this was to have some enclosed piece of ground,
well fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them
up so effectually, that those within might not hreak
out, or those without hreak in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands;
yet as I saw there was an ahsolute necessity of doing
it, my first piece of work was to find out a proper
piece of ground, viz. whsre there was likely to he
herhage for them to eat, water for them to drink, and
cover to keep them from the sun.
Those who understand such enclosures, will think-
I had very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a
place very proper for all these, heing a plans open
piece of meadow-land or savana (as our people call
it in the western colonies) which had two or three
little drills of fresh water in it, and at one end was
very woody; I say they will smile at my forecast,
when I shall tell them I hegan hy enclosing of this
piece of ground in such a manner, that my heri^e o
pale must have heen at least two miles ahout; nor wa
the madness of it so great as to the compas , K.r if it
was ten miles ahout, I was like to have time enough
1o do it in ; hut 1 did not consider, that my goats
would he as wild in so much compas, as if they ltad
had the whole island ; and 1 should have so ,nuca
room to chase them in, that I should never catch them.
My hedge was hegun and carried on, I helieve,
ahout fifty yards, when this thought occurred to me;
1o I presently stopped short, and for the first hegin-
ning I resolved to enclose a piece of ahout one hun-
dred and fifty yards in length, and one hundred yards
in hreadth, which as it would maintain as many as I
should have in any reasonahle time, so, as my flock
increased, I could add more ground to the enclosure.
Tins was acting with some prudence, and I went to
work with courage. I was ahout three months hedg-
ing in the first piece; and, till I had done it, I tethered
the three kids in the hest part of it, and used them to
feed as near me as possihle, to make them familiar;
and very often I would go and carry them some ears
of harley, or a handful of rice, and feed them out of
my hand; so that after my enclosure was finished,
and I let them loose they would follow me up and
down hleating after me for a handful of corn.
This answered my end, and in ahout a year and a
half I had a flock of ahout twelve goats, kids and all |
and in two years more I had three-and-forty, hesides
several that I took and killed for my food; and after
that I enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed
them in, with little pens to drive them into, to take
tliem as I wanted them ; and gates out of one piece of
ground into another.
But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's
flesh to feed on when f pleased, hut milk too, a thing
which indeed in my heginning I did not so much as
think of, and which when it came into my thoughts,
was really an agreeahle surprise; for now I set up my
dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in
a day. An I as nature who gives supplies of food
to every creature, dictates even naturally how to make
use of it, so I, that never milked a cow much less a
Etat, or saw hutter or cheese made, very readily and
audily, though after a great many essays and miscar
riapos, made me hoth hutter and cheese at last, ant
never wanted it afterwards.
How mercifully can our great Creator treat his crea-
tures, even in those conditions in which they seemed
to he overwhelmed in destruction! How can he sweet-
en the hitterest providences, and give us cause to
praise him for dungeons and prisons! What a tahle
was here spread for me in the wilderness, where 1
•aw nothing at first hut to perish for hunger!
It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen me
and my little family sit down to dinner: there was
my majesty, the prince and lord of the whole island;
I had the livesof all my suhjects at ahsolute command;
I could hang, draw, give life and liherty, and take it
away, and no rehels among all my suhje^s.
Then to see how like a king I dined too, all alone,
attended hy my servants! Pol, as if he had heen my
favorite, as the only person permitted to talk to me;
my dog, which was now grown very old and crazy,
and founJ no species In multiply his kind upon, sat al-
ways at my right hand ; and two cats one on one sida
the tahle, and one on the other, expecting now and
then a hit fiom my hand as a mark of special favour
But these were not the two cats which I hrought on
shore at first; for they were hoth of them dead, and
had heen interred near my hahitation hj my own
hands; hut one of them having multiplied hy I know
not what kind of creature, these were two which • pre-
served tame, whereas the rest ran wild into the woods,
and hecame indeed trouhlesome to me at last; for they
would often come into my house, and plun 'cr me too,
till at last 1 was ohliged to shoot them, and did kill a
great many; at length they left me. With this at-
tendance, and in this plentiful manner, I lived ; nei-
ther could I he said to want any thing, hut society and
of that, in some time after this, I was like to have too
much.
I was something impatient, as I had ohserccd, to
have the use of my hoat, though very loath to run any
aora hazard: and therefore sometimes I sat contriT
11
Ing ways to get her ahout the island, and at other times
I sat myself down contented enough without her. But
I had a strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to
the point of the island, where, as I have said in my
last ramhle, I went up the hill to see how the shore
lay, and how the current set, that I might see what I
had to do. This inclination increased upon me everr
day, and at length I resolved to travel thither hy land,
and following the edge of the shore, I did so; hut had
any one in England heen to meet scch a man as I was,
it must either have frighted them, or raised a great
deal of laughter ; and as I frequently stood still to
look at myself, I could not hut smile at the notion of
my travelling through Yorkshire with such an equi-
page, and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a
sketch of my figure as follows:
I had a great high shapeless cap, made of goat's
skin, with a flap hanging down hehind, as well to keep
the sun from me, as to shoot the rain off from run-
ning into my neck; nothing heing so hurtful in these
climates as the rain upon the flesh under the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goafs skin, the skirts coming
down to ahout the middle of my thighs; and a pair of
open-kneed hreeches of the same ; the hreeches were
made of a skin of an old he goat, whose hair hung
down such a length on either side, that, like panta-
loons, it reached to the middle of my legs. Stockings
and shoes I had none; hut I had made me a pair of
something, I scarce knew what to call them, like hus-
kins, to flap over my legs, and lace on either side like
tterdasnes: hut of a most harherous shape, as in
d were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a hroad helt of goat's skin dried, which I
drew together with two thongs of the same, instead
of huckles; and in a kind of a frog on either side of
this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a little saw
and a hatchet; one on one side, one on the other: I
had another helt not so hroad, and fastened in the
same manner, which hung over my shouldnr; and at
the end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches.
th riade of goat's skins too; in one of which t hung
,ny powder, in the other my shot: at my hack I car-
ried my hasket, on my shoulder my gun, and over my
head a great clumsy ugly goat's skin umhrella; hut
which, after all, was the most necessary thing I had
ahout me, next to my gun. As for my face, the co-
lour of it was really not so Mullatto-like as one might
expect from a man not at all careful of it, rfnd living
within nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My heard
I had once suffered to grow till it was ahout a quar-
ter of a yard long; hut as I had hoth scissars and
razors sufficient, I had it cut pretty short, except what
grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a
large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had
seen worn hy some Turks whom I saw at Sallee: foi
the Moors did not wearsuch, though the Turks did; of
these mustachios, or whiskers, I will not say they were
long enough to hang my hat upon them; hut they
were of length and shape monstrous enough, and such
as in England would have passed for frightful.
But all this is hy the hy ; for as to my figure, I had
so few to ohserve me, that it was of no manner of
consequence; so I say no more to that part. In this
kind of figure I went my new journey, and was out
five or six days. I travelled first along the sea-shore,
directly to the place where I first hrought my hoat to
an anchor, to get up upon the rocks; and, having no
hoat now to take care of, I went over the land a nearer
way, to the same height that I was upon hefore; when
looking forward to the point of the rock which lay
out, and which I was to douhle with my hoat, as I
said ahove, I was surprised to see the sea all smooth
and quiet; no rippling, no motion, no current, any
more there than in other places.
I was at a strange loss to understand this, and re-
solved to spend some time in the ohserving of it, to
see if nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned
It: hut I was presently convinced how it was; via.
that the tide of shh setting from the west, and joining
with the current of waters from some great r.vet on
the shore, must he the occasion of this current, anr1
the west, or from the north, this current came near,
or went farther from the shore; for, waiting there-
ahouts till evening, I went up to the rock again, and
then the tide of the ehh heing made, I plainly ssw tha
current again as hefore, only that it ran farther oft,
heing near half a league from the shore; whereas, ia
my case, it set close upon the shore, and hurried ms
in my can ie along with it, which at another time if
would not have done.
This ohservation convinced me, that I had nothing
to do hut ohserve the ehhing and the flowing of the
tide, and I might very eas:ly hring my hoat ahout
the island again: hut when 1 hegun to think of put-
ting it in practice, I had such a terror upon my spi-
rits at the rememhrance of the danger I had heen in,
that I could not think of it again with any patience;
hut on the contrary, I took up another resolution,
which was more safe, though more lahorious; and th'u
was, that I would huild, or rather make me another
periagua, or canoe; and so have one for one side oJ
the island, and one for the other.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may
eall it, two plantations in the island; one mv iitile
forrification or tent, with the wall ahout it unq'r the
rock, with the cave hehind me, which hy this ...me 1
had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one
within another. One of these, which was the driest
and largest, and had a door out heyond my wall or
fortification, that is to sav, heyona where my wall
pined to the rock, was all f:lled up with large earthen
pots, of which I hare given an account, and with
fourteen or fifteen great haskets, which would hold
five or stx hushels each, where I laid up my stores ol
provision, especially my com, some in the ear cut
off short from the straw, and the other ruhhed out
with my hands.
As for my wall, made as hefore, with long stakej
that accord ii

the wind hlew more forcihle from
13
or piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were hy
this time grown so hig, and spread so very much, that
there was not the least appearance, to any one's view,
of any hahitation hehind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, hut a little farther with-
in the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two
pieces of corn-ground ; which I kept duly cultivated
and sowed, and which duly yielded me their harvest
in its season : and whenever I had occasion for mom
corn, I had more land adjoining as fit as that.
Besides this 1 had my country-seat, and I had now
a tolerahle plantation there also; for first, I had my
little hower, as I called it, which 1 kept in repair;
that is to say, I kept the hedge which circled it in con-
stantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder stand-
ing always in the inside; I kept the trees, which at
first were no more than my stakes, hut weic now
grown very firm and tall; I kept them always so cut,
that they might spread and grow thick and wild, and
make the more agreeahle shad, which they did effec-
tually to my mind. In the middle of this I had my
tent always standing, heing a piece of a sail spread
over poles set up for that purpose, and which never
wanted any repair or renewing; and under this 1 had
made me a squah or couch, with the skins of the
creatures I had killed, and with other soft things, and
a hlanket laid on them, such as helonged to our sea-
hedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-coat
o cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion to
he ahsent from my chief seat, I took up my county
hahitation.
Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle,
this is to say, my goats: and as I had taken an in-
conceivahle deal of pains to fence and enclose this
ground, I was so uneasy to see it kept entire, lest the
goats should hreak through, that I never left off, till
with infinite lahour 1 had stuck the outside of the hedga
so full of small stakes, and so near to one another,
that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was
scare room tu put a hand through hetween them.
which afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they
all did in the next rainy season, made the enctosure
strong, like a wall, indeed stronger titan any wall.
This will testify for me thai | was not idle, and
that I spared no pains to hring to pass whatever ap-
peared necessary for my comfortahle support; for 1
considered the keeping up a hreed of tame creatures
hus at my hand, would he a living magazine of flesh,
milk, hutter, and cheese, for me as long as I lived
in the place, if it were to he forty years; and that
keeping them in my reach, depended entirely upon
my perfecting my enclosures to such a degree, that 1
might he sure of keeping them together; which hy
this method indeed 1 so effectually secured, that when
these little-stakes hegan to grow, 1 had planted them
so very thick, I was forsed to pull some of them up
again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which
I principally depended on for my winter store of
raisins, and which I never failed to preserve very
carefully, as the hest and most agreeahle dainty of
my whole diet; and indeed they were not agreeahle
only, hut physical, wholesome, nourishing, and re
freshing to the last degree.
As this was also ahout halfway hetween my othet
hahitation and the place where I had laid up my hoat,
I generally staid and ,ay here in my way thither; for
I used frequently to visit my haot, and I kept all
things ahout or helonging to her in very good order i
sometimes I went out in her to divert myself, hut no
more hazardous voyages would 1 go, nor scarce ever
ahove a stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so
apprehensive of heing hurried out of my knowledge
again hy the currents, or winds, or any other acci
dent. But now I come to a new scene of my life.
It happened one day ahout noon, going towards
my Iroat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print
or a man's naked foot on the shore, which was very
plain to he seen in the sand: I stood like one thunder-
struck, or as if 1 had seen an apparation, I listened,
1 looked round me, I could hear nothing, nor see any
thin;; I went up to a rising ground to look fartner:
I went up the shore, and down the shore, hut it was
all one, I could see no other impression hut that one;
r went to it again to see if there were any more, and
to ohserve if it might not he my fancy ; hut there was
no room for that, for there was exactly the very print
of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of foot; how it
came thither I knew not, nor could in the least ima-
gine. But after innumerahle fluttering thoughts, like
a man perfectly confued, and out of myself, I came
home to my mortification, not feeling, as we say, the
ground I went on, hut terrified to the last degree,
looking hehind me at every two or three steps, mis'
taking every hush and tree, and fancying every stump
at a dissance to he a man; nor is it possihle to de-
scrihe how many various shapes an affrighted imagi-
nation represented things to me in; how many wild
ideas were formed every moment in my fancy, and
what strange unaccountahle whimsies came into my
thoughts hy the way.
When I came to my castle, for so I think I called
It ever a&er this, I fled into it like one pursued; whe-
ther I went over hy the ladder, as first contrived, or
went in at the hole in the rock, which 1 called a door,
I cannot rememher; for never frighted hare fled to
cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind than
I to this retreat.
I had no sleep that night; the farther I was from
the occasion of my fright the greater my apprehen-
sions were ; which is something contrary to the nature
of such things, and especially to the usual practice of
all creatures in fear. But I was so emharrassed with
my own frightful ideas of the thing, that I forme
nothing hut dismal imaginationsto myself, even though
I was now a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied
It must he the devil ; and reason joined in with me
upon this supposition. For how should any other
thing in human shape come into the place? Where was
the vessel that hrought thetn ? What marks were thr re
of any other footsteps? And how was it possihle a man
should come there? But then tothink thatSatan should
take human shape upon him in such a place where
there could he no manner of occasion for it, hut te
leave the print of his foot hehind him, and that even
for no purpose too (for he could not he sure I should
see it;) this was an amazement the other way; I con
siderea that the devil might have found out ahundance
of other ways to have terrified me, than this of the
single print of a foot; that as I lived quite on the oth
er side of the island, he would never have heen so sim
pie to leave a mark in a place where it was ten thou-
sand to one whether I should ever see it or not, and in
the sand too, which the first surge of the sea upon an
high wind would have defaced entirely. All this
seemed inconsistent with the thing itself, and with all
notions we usually entertain of the suhtlety of the devil.
Ahundance of such things as these assisted to arguo
me out of all apprehensions ol its heing the devil.
And 1 presently concluded that it must he some more
dangerous creature ; viz. that it must he some of the
savages of the'main land over against me, who had
wandered out to sea in their canoes, and, either driv-
en hy the currents, or hy contrary winds, had made
the island, and had heen on shore, hut were gone away
again to sea, heing as loath, perhaps, to have staid in
this desolate island, as I would have heen to have
had them.
While these reflections were rolling upon my mind,
I was very thankful in my thought, that I was so
happy as not to he thereahouts at that time, or that
they did not see my hoat, hy which they would have
concluded, that some inhahitants had heen in the
place, and perhaps have searched farther for me
ITien terriole thoughts racked my imaginations ahout
their having found my hoat, and that there were peo
pie here; and if so, I should certainly have them
come again in great numhers, and devour me; thai
if it should happen so that they should not find me.
yet they would find my enclosure,destroy all my com.
carry away all my flock of tame goats and I should
perish at last for mere want.
Thus my fear hanished all my religious hope; a?
that former confidence in Qod, which was founded
upon such wonderful experience as I had had of his
goodness, now vanished; as if he that had fed me hy
miracle hitherto, could not preserve hy his power the
rrevision which he had made for me hy his goodness,
reproached myself wh.i my uneasiness, that I would
not sow any more corn one year, than would just
serve me till the next season, as if no accident could
intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was
upon the ground. And this I thought so just a re-
proof, that I resolved for the future to have two or
three years corn heforehand, so that, whatever might
come, I might not perish for want of hread.
How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the
life of man! And hy what secret differing springs are
the affections hurried ahout, asdifteringcircumstances
present ! To-day we love what lo-morrow we hate;
to-day we seek what to-morrow we shun; to-day we
desire what to-morrow we fear; nay, even tremhle at
the apprehensions of. This was exemplified in me
ft this time in the most lively manner imaginahle; foi
I, whose only affliction was, that I seemed hanished
from human society, that 1 was alone, circumscrihed
hy the houndless ocean, cut off from mankind, and
condemned to what I call a silent life; that I was ai
one whom Heaven thought not worthy to he numher-
ed among the living, or to appear among the rest of
his creatures; that to have seen one of my own spe-
cies, would have seemed to me a raising me from
death to life, and the greatest hlessing that Heaven it-
self, next to the supreme hlessing of salvation, could
hestow; I say, that I should now tremhle at the very
apprehensions of seeing a man, and was ready to smk
into the ground, at hut the shadow, or silent appear-
ance of a man's having set his foot on the islsnd.
Such is the uneven state of human life; and it af-
forded me a great many curious speculations after-
wards, when 1 had a little recovered my first mm
pri»:: I considered that this was the nation of life
the infinitely wise and good providence of God had
determined lor me : that as 1 could not foresee what
the ends of divine wisdom might he in all this, so I
was not to dispute his sovereignty, who, as I was his
creature had an undouhted right hy creation to govern
»ud dispose of me ahsolutely as he thought fit; and
who, as I was a creature who had offended him, had
likewise a judicial right to condemn me to what pun-
ishment he thought fit; and that it was my part to
suhmit to hear his indignation, hecause I had sinned
against him.
I then reflected, that God who was not only right-
eous, hut omnipotent, as he had thought fit thus to
punish and afflict me, so he was ahle to deliver me;
that if he did not think fit to do it, it was my unques-
tioned duty to resign myself ahsolutely and entirely
to his will; and on the other hand, it was my duty
also to hope in him, pray to him, and quietly to attend
the dictates and directions of his daily providence.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay,
I may say, weeks and months; and one particular
effect of my cogitations on this occasion 1 cannot
omit; viz. one moming early, lying in my hed, and
filled with tooughts ahout my danger from the appear-
ance of savages, I found it discomposed me very
much; upon which those words of the Scripture came
into my thought, "Call upon me in the day of trou-
hle, and I will deliver thee, and thou shah glorify
me."
Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my hed, my
heart was not only comforted; hut I was guided and
encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance.
When I had done praying, I took up my Bihle, and
opening it to read, the first words that presented to
me were, " Wait on the Lord, and he of good cheer
and he shall strengthen thy heart: Wait, I say, on
the Lord." It is impossihle to express the comfort
this gave me; and in return, I thankfully laid down
the hook, and was no more sad, at least, not on that
occasion.
In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions,
and reflections, it came into my thoughts one day, thai
all this might he a more chimera of my own, and that
this foot might he the print of my own foot, when I
came en shore from my hoat. This cheered me up a
little too, and I hegan to persuade myself it was all a
delusion ; that it was nothing else hut my own foot;
and why might not I come that way from the hoat, as
well as I was going that way to the hoat ? Again, I
considered also, that I could hy no means tell for cer-
tain where I had trod, and where I had not; and that
if at last this was only the print of my own foot, I
had played the part of those fools, who strive to make
stories of spectresand apparations, and then are them
selves frighted at them more than any hody else.
Now I hegan to take courage, and to peep ahroad
again ; for I had not stirred out of my castle for three
days and nights, so that I hegan to starve for provi-
sion; for I had little or nothing withindoors, hut
some harley cakes and water. Then I knew that my
goats wanted to he milked too, which usually was
my evening diversion ; and the poorcreatures were in
great pain and inconvenience for want of it; and in-
deed it almost spoiled some of them, and almost
dried up their milk.
Heartening myself therefore with the helief, that
this was nothing hut the print of one of my own feet
fand so I might he truly said to start at my own sha-
dow,) I hegan to go ahroad again, and went to my
country-house to milk my flock : hut to see with what
fear I went forward, how often I looked hehind me,
how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down
my hasket, and run for my life; it would have made
any one have thought I was haunted with an evil
conscience, or that I had heen lately most terrihly
frighted; and so indeed I had.
However, as I went down thus two or three days,
and having seen nothing, I hegan to he a little bolder
I6S
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
and to think there was really nothing in it hut my
own imagination; hut I could not persuade myself
fully of this, till I should go down to the shore again,
and see this print of a foot, and measure it hy my
*wn, and see if there was any similitude or fitness,
that I might he assured it was my own foot. But
when I cam? to the place first, it appeared evidently
jO me, that when I laid up my hoat, 1 could not pos-
sihly he on shore any where thereahouts. Secondly,
when 1 came to measure the mark with my own foot,
I found my foot not so large hy a great deal. Both
these things filled my head with new imaginations,
and gave me the vapours again to the highest degree;
so that I shook with cold, like one in an ague, and 1
went home agam, filled with the helief, that some
man or men had heen on shore there; or, in short,
that the island was inhahited, and I might he sur-
prised hefore I was aware; and what course to take
for my security, I knew not.
O what ridiculous resolutions men take, when pos-
sessed with fear! It deprives them of the use of those
means which reason offers for their relief. The first
thing I proposed to myself was, to throw down my
enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into
the woods, that the enemy might not find them, and
then frequent the island in prospect of the same, oi
the like hooty ; then to the simple thing of digging up
my two corn-fields, that they might not find such a
grain there, and still to he prompted to frequent tho
island; then to demolish my hower and tent, that
they might not see any vestiges of my hahitation, and
he prompted to look farther, in order to find out the
These were the suhjects of the first night's cogita-
tation, after I was come home again, while the appre-
hensions which had so over-run my mind were fres*
upon me, and my head was full of vapours, as ahove
Thus fear of danger is ten thousand time* more terrify
fag than danger itself, when apparent to the eyei

and wo find the hurden of anxiety greater hy much
than the evil which we are anxious ahout; hut, which
was worse than all this, I had not that relief in this
trouhle from the resignation I used to practise, that 1
hoped to have. I looked, 1 thought, like Saul, who
complained not only that the Philistines were upon
him, hut that God had forsaken him; for I did not
now take due ways to compose my mind, hy crying to
God in my distress, and resting upon his providence,
as I had done hefore, for my defence and deliver-
ance ; which if I had done, I had, at least, heen more
cheerfully supported under this new surprise, and
perhaps carried through it with more resolution.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all
night; hut in the morning I fell asleep, and having
hy the amusement of my mind heen, as it were, tired,
and my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, and
awaked much hetter composed than 1 had ever heen
upon the utmost dehate with myself, 1 concluded, that
this island, which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful,
and no farther from the main land than as I had seen,
was not so entirely ahandoned as I might imagine
that although there were no stated inhahitants who
lived on the spot; yet that there might sometimes
come hoats on from the shore, who either with de-
sign, or perhaps never hut when they were driven
hy cross winds, might come to this place.
That 1 had lived here fifteen years now, and had not
met with the least shadow or figure of any people he-
fore; and that if at any time they should he driven
here, it was prohahle they went away again as soon
as ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit
to fix there upon any occasion, to this tune.
That the most I could suggest any danger from
was from any such casual accidental landing of
straggling people from the main, who, as it was
likely, if they were driven hither, were here against
their wills i so they made no stay here, hut went off

again with all possihle speed, seldom staving on*
night on shore, lest they should not have the help of
the tides and day light hack again; and that there-
fore I had nothing to do hut to consider of some safe
retreat, in case 1 should see any savages land upon
the spot
.
Now I hegan sorely to repent that 1 had dug my
cave so large, as to hring a door through again, which
door, as I said, came out heyond where my fortifica-
tion joined to the rock. Upon maturely considering
this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second forti-
fication, in the manner of a semicircle, at a distance
from my wall, just where I had planted a douhle row
of trees ahout twelve years hefore, of which I made
mention: these trees having heen planted so thick
hefore, there wanted hut a few piles to he driven he-
tween them, that they should he thicker and stronger,
and my wall would he soon finished.
So that I had now a douhle wall, and my outer
wall was thickened with pieces of timher, old cahles,
and every thing I could think of to make it strong;
having in it seven little holes, ahout as hig as I might
put my arm out at. In the inside of this I thickened
my wall to ahout ten feet thick, continually hringing
earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the
wall, and walking upon it; and through the seven
holes 1 contrived to plarvt the muskets, of which I
took notice that I got seven on shore out of the ship;
these, I say, I planted like my cannon, and fitted
them into frames that held them like a carriage, that
so I could fire all the seven guns in two minutes time.
This wall I was many a weary month in finishing,
and yet never thought myself safe till it was done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without
my wall, for a great way every way, as full with
stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood, which 1 found
so apt to grow, as they could well stand; insomuch
that I helieve I might set in near twenty thousand of
them, leaving a pretty large space hetweee them.and
my wall, that I might have room to see an enemy,
and they might have no shelter from the young trees,
if they attempted to approach my outer wall.
Thus in two years time I haH a thick grove; and in
five or six years time 1 had a wood hefore my dweL
ling, grown so monstrous thick and strong that it was
mdeed perfectly impassahle; and no man of what
kind soever would ever imagine that there was any
thing heyond it, much less an hahitation : as for the
way I proposed myself to go in and out (for I left no
avenue), it was hy setting two ladders; one to a part
of the rock which was low, and then hroke in, and
left room to place another ladder upon that; so when
the two ladders were taken down, no man living could
come down to me without mischiefing himself; and if
they had come down, they were still on the outside
of my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation; and it will he seen
at length, that they were not altogether without just
teason; though I foresaw nothing at that time more
than my mere fear suggested.
While this was doing, 1 was not altogether careless
cf my other affairs; for I had a great concern upon
me for my little herd of goats; they were not only a
present supply to me upon every occasion, and hegan
to he sufficient for me, without the expense of powder
and shot, hut also ahated the fatigue of my hunting
after the wild ones; and I was loath to loose the ad-
vantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up
over again.
To this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think hut of two ways to preserve them, one was to
find another convement place to uig a cave under
ground, and to drive them into it every night; and
the other was to enclose two or three little hits of
land, remote from one another, and as much coiv
coaled as I could, where I might keep ahout half a
doxen young goats in each place,; so that if any dis-
aster happened to the flock m general, I might he able
to raise them again with little trouhle and time; and
this, though it would require a great Heal of time and
lahour, I thought was the most rational design.
Accordingly I spent some time, to find out the
most retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon
one which was as private indeed as my heart could
wish; for it was a little damp piece of ground in the
middle of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is
ohserved, I almost lost myself once hefore, endeav
ouring to come hack that way from the eastern part
of the island: here I found a clear piece of land near
three acres, so surounded with woods, that it was
almost an enclosure hy nature; at least it did not
want near so much lahour to make it so, as the other
pieces of ground 1 had worked so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of
ground, and in less than a month's time I had so
fenced it round, that my flock or herd, call it which
you please, which were not so wild now as at first
they migh. he supposed to he, were well enough
secured m it. So without any farther delay, I re-
moved ten she-goats, and two he-goats to this piece;
and when there, 1 continued to perfect the fence, till
I had made it as secure as the other, which, however,
I did at more leisure, and it took me up more time
hy a great deal.
All this lahour I was at the expense of, purely
from my apprehensions on account of the print of
• man's foot which 1 had seen; for as yet, I never
taw any human creature come near the island, and
I had now lived two years under these uneasinesses,
which indeed made my life much less comfortahle
than it was hefore; as may well he imagined, hy any
who know what it is to live in the consant snare ot
the fear of man; and this I must ohserve with grief
too, that the discomposure of my mind had too
great impressions also upon the religious part of my
thought*; for the dread and terror of fallmg into the
hands of savages and caunihalslay so upon my spirits,
hat I seldom found myself in a due temper foi ap
plication to m> Maker , at least not with the sedate
calmness and resignation of soul which I was wont t,i
do. I rather prayed to God as under great affliction
and pressure of mind, surrounded with danger, and in
expectation every night of heing murdered and de-
voured hefore the morning; and I must testify from
my experience, that a temper of peace, thankfulness,
ove, and affection, is much more the proper frame
fcr prayer than that of terror and discomposure t and
hat under the dread of mischief impending, a man is
K? more fit for a comforting performance of the duty
of praying to God, then he is for repentance on a sick
hed; foT these discomposures affect the mind as the
others do the hody; and the discomposure of the
mind must necessarily he as great a disahility as that
of the hody, and much greater; praying to God heing
properly an act of the mind, not of the hody.
But to go on : after I had thus secured one part of
my little living stock, I went ahout the whole island,
searching for another private place, to make such
another deposit; when wandertng more to the west
point of the island than I had ever done yet, and
looking out to sea, I thought I saw a hoat upon the
sea at a great distance; I had found a perspective
glass or two in one of the seamen's chests, which I
saved out of our ship; hut 1 had it not ahout me, and
this was so remote, that I could not tell what to make
of it, though i looked at it till my eyes were not ahle
to look any longer: whether it was a hoat or not, I
do not know; hut as I descended from the hill, I
aould see no more of it, so I gave it over; only I
resolved to go n» more without a perspective glass in
my pocket.
When I was come down the hill, to the end of the
bland, where indeed I had never heen hefore, I was
prrset tly convinced, that the seeing the print of a
roa:'s foot, was not such a strange thing in the island
Cm I imagined ; and, hut that it was a special provi-
dence that 1 was cast upon the side of the island where
the savages never came, I should easily have known
168
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
(hat nothing was more frrqnent than for the canoes
from the main, when the? happened to lie a little too
far nut at sea, to shoot over to that aide of the island
for harhour; likewise, as they often met, and fough
in their canoes, the victors, having taken any prison
ers, would hring them over to this shore, where, ac
cording to their dreadful customs, heing all cannihaU
they would kill and eat them : of which hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, t« I
said ahove, heing the S. W. point of the island, I was
pefectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possihle
for me to express the horror of my mind at seeing the
shore spread with sknlls, hands, feet, and other Lones
of human hodies; and particularly I ohserved a plact
where there had heen a fire made, and a circle dug rct
the earth, like a cock-pit, where it is supposed the
savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman feast'
ings upon the hodies of their fellow-crewtures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notions of any danger to myself
from it, for a long while; all my apprehensions were
huried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman,
hellish hrutality, and the horror t f the degeneracy of
human nuture; which, though I had heard of often,
yet I never had so near a view of hefore : in short, f
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle; my
stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of
fainting, when nature discharged the disorder from
my stomach, and, having vomited with an uncommon
violence, I was a little relieved, hut could not hear to
stay in the place a moment; so I got me up the hiU
again with ail the speed I could, and walked on to
wards my own hahitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the island
I stood still a while as amazed; and then recovering
i ay self, 1 looked up with the utmost affection of my
toul, and, with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave
Hod thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part of the
world where I was distinguished from such dreadful
•features as these; and that though I had <
my present condition very miserahle, had yet given
me so many comforts in it, that I had still more to
give thanks for than to complain of; and this ahove
all, that I had, even in this miserahle condition, heen
comforted with the knowledge of himself, and the
hope of his hlessing, which was a felicity more than
sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which I had
suffered, or could suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my
castle, and hegan to he much easier now, as to the
safety of my circumstances, than evor I was hefore;
for I ohserved, that these wretches never came to this
island in search of what they could get; perhaps not
seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, any thing
here, and having often, no douht, heen up in the co-
vered woody part of it, without finding any thing to
their purpose. I knew I had heen here now almost
eighteen years, and I never saw the least footsteps of
a human creature there hefore; and might he here
eighteen more as entirely concealed as I was now, if
I did not discover myself to them, which I had no
stanner of occasion to do, it heing my only husiness
to keep myself entirely concealed where I was, unless
I found a hetter sort of creatures than cannihals to
uake myself known to.
Yet I entertained such an ahhorrence of the savage
wretches that I have heen speaking of, and of the
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eat-
ing one another up, that I continued pensive and sad,
and kept close within my own circle for almost two
years after this: when I saj my own circle, I mean
hy it my three plantationss viz. my castle, my coun-
try-seat, which I called my hower, and my enclosure
in the woods; nor did I look after this for any other
use than as an enclosure for my goats; for the aversion
which nature gave me to these hellish wretches was
such, that I was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing
the devil himself; nor did I so much as go to look
after my haot in all this time, hut hegun rather to
think of making me another; for I could not think of
ever making any more attempts to hring the other
hoat round the island to me, lest 1 should meet with
some of those creatures at sea, in which, if I had
happened to have fallen into their hands, I knew
what would have heen my lot
.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had, that I
was in no danger of heing discovered hy these people
hegan to wear off my uneasiness ahout them; and I
hegan to live just in the same composed manner as
hefore; onlv with this difference, that I used more-
caution, and kept my eyes more ahout me than I did
hefore, lest I should happen to he seen hy any of them;
and particularly, I was more cautious of firing my
fun lest any of them on the island should happen to
ear it; and it was therefore a very good provi-
dence to me, that I had furnished myself with a tarn*
hreed of giats, that I had no need to hunt any more
•.hout the woods, or shoot at them ; and if I did catch
any more of then after this, it was hy traps and
snares, as I had done hefore; so that for two years
after this, I helieve I never fired my gun once off,
though I never went out without it; and, which was
more, as I had saved three pistols out of the ship, I
always carried them out with me, or at least two of
them, sticking them in my goatskin helt: I likewise
furhished up one of the great cutlasses that I had out
of the ship, and made me a helt to put it in also; so
that 1 was now a must formidahle fellow to look at
when f went ahroad, if you add to the former desertp-
ion of myself, the particular of two pistols, and a
great hroadsword, hanging at my side in a helt, hut
without a scahhard.
Things going on thus, as 1 have said, for some
time, I seemed, excepting these cautions, to he re
duced to my former calm sedate way of living. All
these things tended tc shew me m( re and more how
for my condition was from heing miserahle, compared
to some others; nay, to many other particulars of life,
which it might have pleased God to have mado my
*it. It pit me upon reflecting, how little repinmg
thei• would he among mankind, at any condition of
life, if people would rather compare their condition
with those that are worse, in order to he thankful,
than he always comparing them with those which are
hetter, to assist their murmurings and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really
many things which 1 wanted, eo indeed 1 thought that
the frights I had heen in ahout these savage wretches
and the concern I had heen in for my own preserva-
tion, had taken off the edge of my invention for my
nwn conveniences, and I had dropped a good design,
which I had once hent my thoughts upon; and that
was, to try if I could not make some of my harley
into malt, and then try to hrew myself some heer:
this was really a whimsical thought, and I reproved
myself often for the simplicity of it, for I presently
saw there would he the want of several things neces-
sary to 'he making my heer, that it would he impos-
sihle for me to supply; as. first, casks to preserve it
in, which was a thing that, as I have ohserved already,
I could never compass; no, though I spent not many
days, hut weeks, nay months, in attempting it, hut to
no purpose. In the next place, I had no hops to
make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or
kettle to make it Itoil; and yet, had not all these thmgs
intervened, I mean the frights and terrors 1 was in
ahout the savages, I had undertaken it, and perhaps
hrought it to pass too; for I seldom gave any thing
over without accomplishing it, when 1 once had it in
my head enough to hegin it.
But my invention now ran quite another away ; for
night and day I could think of nothing, hut how I
might destroy some of these monsters in their cruet
hloody entertainment, and, if possihle, save the victim
they should hring hither to destroy. It would take up
a larger volume than this whde work Is intended to
he, to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or
rather hrooded upon in my though s, for the destroy
big these creatures or at least fri htening them, so m
"AWAV.'.V.V.
to prevent their coming hither any more ; hut all wai
ahortive; nothing could he possihle to take effect un-
less I was to he there to do it myself; and what could
one man do among them, when perhaps there might
he twenty or thirty of them together, with their darts,
or their hows and arrows, with which they could
shoot as true to a mark as I could with my gun?
Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place
where they made their fire, and put in five or si
pounds of gunpowder, which, when they kindled thei
fire, would consequently take fire, and hlow up al
that was near it; but, as in the first place I should lie
very loath to waste so much powder upon them, my
store heing now within the quantity of a harrel, sc.
neither could 1 he sure of its going off at any certain
time, when it might surprize them ; and, at hest, that
it would do little more than just hlow the fire ahout
their ears and fright them, hut not sufficient to make
them forsake the place; so I laid it aside, and then
proposed, that I would place myself in amhush in
some convenient place, with my three guns all douhle
loaded, and in the middle of their hloody ceremony
let fly at them, when I should he sure to kill or wound
perhaps two or three at every shot; and then falling
m upon them with my three pistols, and my sword, I
made no douht hut that, if there were twenty, I should
kill them all: this fancy pleased my thoughts for
some weeks, and I was so full of it that I often dream-
ed of it; and sometimes, that I was just going to let
fly at them in my sleep. ,
I went so far with it in my indignation, that I em-
ployed myself several days to find out proper places
to put myself in amhuscade, as 1 said, to watch for
thtim ; and I went frequently to the place itself, which
was now grown more familiar to mc; and especially
while my mind was thus filled with thoughts of re-
venge, and of a hloody putting twenty of thirty ol
them to the sword, as I may call it; hut the horror 1
had at the place, and at the signals of the harharous
wretches devouring one another ahated mv malact

Well, at .ength 1 found a place in the side of ihe
mil, where I was satisfied I might securely wait till I
saw any of the hoats coming, and might then, even
hefore they would he ready to come on shore, convey
myself unseen into thickets of trees, in one of which
there was an hollow large enough to conceal me en-
tirely; and where I might sit, and ohserve all their
hloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together, as that it would he
next to impossihle that I should miss my shoot, or
that I could fail wounding three or four of them at the
first shoot
.
In this place then I resolved to fix my design ; and
accordingly I prepared two muskets and my ordinary
fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded with a
hrace of slugs each, and four or five smaller hullets,
ahout the size of pistol-hullets, and the fowling-piece
I loaded with near an handful of swan-shot of the
largest size; I also loaded my pistols with ahout four
hullets each : and in this posture, well provided with
ammumtion for a second and third charge, I prepared
myself for my expedition.
After I had thus laid the scheme for my design,
and in my imagination put it in practice, I continu-
ally made my tour every morning up to the top of the
hill, which was from my castle, as I called it, about
three miles or more, to see if I could ohserve any
hoats upon the sea, coming near the island, or stand-
ing over towards it; hut I hegan to tire of this hard
duty, after I had for two or three months constantly
kept my watch; hut came always hack without any
discovery, there having not in all that time heen the
least appearance, not only on or near the shore, hut
not on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses
could reach every way.
As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to
look out. so long Also I kept up the vigour of my de
si^n, an,' my spirits seemed to he all the while in a
smtahle hnw for so outrageous an execution, as the
killing twenty or thirty naked savages for an offence.
which I had not at all entered into a discussion of in
my thoughts, any further than my passions were at
first fired hy the horror I conceived at the unnatural
custom of the people of that country, who, it seems,
had heen suffered hy Providence, in his wise disposi-
tion of the wo'ld, to have no other guide than that of
their own ahominahle and vitiated passions; and con-
sequently were left, and perhaps had heen for some
Ages, to act such honid things and receive such dread-
ful customs, as nothing hutnatoie entirely ahandoned
of Heaven, and actuated hy some hellish degeneracy,
could have run them into; hut now, when, as I have
said, I hegan to he weary of the fruitless excursion
which I had made so long, and so far, every morning
in vain; so my opinion of the action itself hegan to
alter, and I hegan, with cooler and calmer thoughts,
to consider what it was I was going to engage in;
what authority or call 1 had to pretend to he judge
nnd executioner upon these men as criminals, whom
Heaven had thought fit for so many ages to suffer, un-
punished, to go on, and to he, as it were, the execu-
tioners of his iudgments upon one another; also, how
far these people were offenders against me, and what
right 1 had to engage in the quarrel of that hlood,
which they shed promiscuously one upon another. I
dehated this verv often with myself tlms: How de I
know what God himself judges in this particular case*
It is certain these people do not commit this as e
crime; it is not against their own consciences reprov-
ing, or their light reproaching them. They do not
know it to he an offence, and then commit it in defi-
ance of divine justice as we do in almost all the sins
we commit. Thev think it no more a crime to kill a
captive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox; nor
to eat human flesh, than we do to eat mutton.
When I considered this a little, it followed ne-
cessarily, that I was certainly in the wrong in it; that
these people were not murderers in the sense that I
had hefore condemned them in my thoughts, any more
shan those Christians were murderers, who often put
to death the prisoners taken in hattle; or more fre-
quently, upon many occasion^ put whole troops of
men to the sword, without giving quarter, though they
threw down their arms and suhmitted.
In the next place, it occurred to me, that alheit the
usage they gave one another was thus hrutish and inw
human, yet it was really nothing to me; these people
had done me no injury .' that if they attempted me,
or I saw it necessary for my immediate preservation
to fall upon them, something might he said for it; het
that I was yet out of their power, and they had really
no knowledge of me, and consequently no design
upon me; and therefore it could not he just for me
to fall upon them ' that this would justify the conduct
of the Spaniards, in all their harharities practised in
America, where they destroyed millions of these
people, who. however they were idolators and ha*-
rians, and had several hloody and harharous rites in
these customs, such as sacrificing human hodies to
their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards very inno-
cent people: and that the rooting them out of the coun-
try is spoken of with the utmost ahhorrence and detes-
tation, even hy the Spaniards themselves, at this time,
and hy all other Christian nations of Europe, as a
mere hutchery, a hloody and unnatural piece of cru-
elty, unjustifiahle either to God or man : and such, as
for which the very name of a Spaniard is reckoned to
he frightful and terrihle to all people of humanity, or
of Christian compassion; as if the kingdom of Spain
were particularly eminent for the product of a race of
men, who were without principles of tenderness, or
the common howels of pity to the miserahle, which is
reckoned to he a mark of a generous temper in the
mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and
to a kind of a full stop; and f hegan hy little and little
to he off of my design, and to conclude I had taken a
wrong measure in my resolution to attack the savages;
that it was not my husiness to meddle with them, uu

less they first attacked me, and this it was my hust
ness, if possihle, to prevent; hut that if I were disco*
vered and attacked, then I knew my duty.
On the other hand, I argued with myself that th'ri
really was the way not to deliver myself, hut entirely
In ruin and destroy myself; for unless i was sure to
nil every one that not only should he on shore at thai
time, hut that should ever come on shore afterwards,
ff hut one of them escaped to tell their country people
what had happened, they would come over again hy
thousands to revenge the death of their fellows; and I
should only hring upon myself a certain destruction,
which at present 1 had no manner of occasion for.
Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in prin>
ciples nor in policy, I ought one way or other to con-
cern myself in this affair: that my husiness was hy
all possihle means to conceal myself from them, and
not to leave the least signal to them to guess hy, that
there ware any living creatures upon the island, I
mean of humnn shape.
Religion joined in with this prudential, and I wai
convinced now many ways that I was perfectly out of
my duty when I was laying all my hloody scheme i
tor the destruction of innocent creatures I mean in-
nocent as to me; as to the crime they were guilty of
towards one another, I had nothing to do with them'
they were national punishments to make a just retri-
hution for national offences; and to hring puhlic judg-
ments upon those who offend in a puhlic manner, hy
such ways as hest please God.
This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was
a greater satisfaction to me, than that 1 had not heen
suffered to do a thing which I now saw so much rea-
son to helieve would have heen no less a sin than that
of wilful murder, if I had com it ted it; and I gave
most humhle thanks on my knees to God, that had
thus delivered me from hlood-guiltiness; heseeching
him to grant me the protection of his Providence, that
1 might not fall into the hands of horharians ; or that
2 might not lay my hands upon them, unless I had «
more clear call from Heaven to do it, in defence of
my own life.
In this disposition I continued for near a year after
this: and so far was I from desiring an occasion for
falling upon these wretches, that m all that time I
never once went up the hill to see whether there were
any of them in sight, or to know whether any of them
had heen on shore there, or not; that I might not he
tempted to renew any of my contrivances against
them, or he provoked, hy any advantage which might
present itself, to fall upon them; only this 1 did I
went and removed my hoat, which I had on the other
side of the island, and carried it dow to the east end
of the whole island, and carried it down to the east end
of the whole island, where I ran it into a little cove
which I found under some high rocks, and where I
knew, hy reason of the currents, the savages durst
not, at least would not, come with their hoats upon
any account whatsoever.
With my hoat I carried away every thing that 1 had
left there helonging to her, though not necessary for
the hare going thither; viz. a mast and sail, which 1
had made for her, and a thing like an anchor, hut in-
deed which could not he called either anchor or grap-
ling; however, it was the hest I could make of its
kind. All these I removed, that there might not he
the least shadow of any discovery, or any appearance
of my hoat, or of any hahitation upon the island.
Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired
than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other than
upon my constant employment, viz. to milk my she-
goats, and manage my little flock in the wood, which,
as it was quite on the other part of the island, wat
quite out of danger: for certain it is, that these
savage people, who sometimes haunted this island,
never came with any thoughts of finding any thing
here, and consequently never wandered off from the
coast; and I douht not hut they might have heen
several times on shore, after my apprehensions of
them had made me cautious, as well as hefore; and
indeed I looked hack with some horroi upon tut
thoughts of what my condition would have heen, if 1
had chopped upon them, and heen discovered hefore
that when naked and unarmed, except with one gun,
and that loaded often only with small shot . I walk-
ed every where, peeping and peering ahout the island,
to see what I could get: what a surprise should 1
have heen in, if, when I discovered the print of a
man's foot, I had instead of that seen fifteen or twen-
ty savages, and found them pursuing me, and, hy the
swiftness of their running, no possihility of my escap
in" them!
The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul
within me, and distressed my mind so much, that 1
could not soon recover it; to think what I should
have done, and how I not only should not have heen
ahle to resist them, hut even should not have had
presence of mind enough to do what I might have
done; much less what now, after so much conside-
ration and preparation, I might he ahle to do. In-
deed, after aeiious thinking of these things, I would
he very melancholy, and sometimes it would last a
great while; hut I resolved it at last all into thankful-
ness to that Providence which had delivered me from
so mr.ty unseen dangers, and had kept me from those
mischiefs, which I could no way have heen the agent
ir delivering myself from; hecause I had not the least
iotirm of any such thing depending, or the least sup-
position of its heing passihle.
Thisrcnewed acontemplation,which often had come
tc my thought in former time, whe first I hegan to see
the merciful dispositions of Heaven, in the dangers we
run through in this life, how wonderfully we are deli-
vered when we know nothing of it: how, when we are
in a quandary, (as we call it) a douht or hesitation,
whether to go this way, or that way, a secret hint shall
1T8 LrFE AND ADVENTURES
nay,when sense,ourown inclination,and perhapshusi-
ness,has called to go the other way,yet a strange impres-
sion upon the mind, from we know not what springs
\V.V.V.'A\V.V.'AV/irt.V.".'.V.V.V.
\nd hy we knew not what power, shall over-rule us to
go this way; and it shall afterwards appear, that had
we gone that way which we would have gone, and even
to our imagination ought to have gone, we should have
heen ruined and lost; upon these, and many like re
flections, I afterwards made it a certain rule with me,
that whenever I found those secret hints, or pressing
of my mind, to doing or not doing any thing that pre
rented, or to going this way or that way, I never fail
ed to ohey the secret dictate; though I new no other
reason for it, than tnat such a pressure, or such an
hint, hung upon my mind: I could give many exam
files of the success of this conduct in the course of my
ife; hut more especially in the latter part of my in
hahiting this unhappy island; hesides many occasions
which it is very likely I might have taken notice of,
If I had seen with the same eyes then that I saw with
now : hut 'tis never too late to he wise; and I cannot
hut advise all considering men, whose lives are at-
tended with such extraordinary incidents as mine, or
tten though not so extraordinary, not to slight such
secret intimationvpf Providence, let them come from
what invisihle intelligence they will; that I shall not
discuss, and perhaps cannot account for ; hut certainly
they are a proof of the converse of spirits, and the
secret communication hetween those emhodied, and
those unemhodied ; and such a proof as can never he
withstood: of which I shall have occasion to give
some very remarkahle instances, in the remainder of
my solitary residence in this dismal place.
I helieve the reader of this will not think it strange,
if I confess that these anxieties, these constant dangers
I lived in, and the concern that was now upon me,
hut an end to all invention, and to all the contrivance
that I had laid for my future accommodations ana
conveniences. I had the care of my safety more now
upon my hand than that of my food. I cared not to
drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the
noise I should make should he heard; much less would
I fire a gun, for the same reason; and, ahove all, I
was very uneasy at making any fire, .est tne smoke,
which is visihle at a great distance in the day, should
hetray me; and for this reason I removed that part
of my husiness which required fire, such as hurning
of pots and pipes, &c. into my new apartment in the
wood; where, after I had heen some time, I found,
to my unspeakahle consolation, a mere natural cave
in the earth, which went in a vast way, and where,
I dare say, no savage, had he heen in the mouth of it,
would he so hardy as to venture in, nor indeed would
any man else, hut one who, like me, wanted nothmg
so much as a safe retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the hottom of a
great rock, where, hy mere accident, (1 would say, U
1 did not sec an ahundant reason to ascrihe all such
things to Providence,) I was cutting down some
thick hranches of trees to make charcoal; and hefore
I go on, I must ohserve the reason of my making this
charcoal, which was thus:
1 was afraid of making a smoke ahout my hahita-
tion, as I said hefore; and yet I could not five there
without haking my hread, cooking my meat, etc.; so
I contrived to hurn some wood here, as I had seen
done in England under turf, till it hecame chark, or
dry coal; and then putting the fire out, 1 preserved
the coal to carry home, and pe/fonn the other ser-
vices, which fire was wanting for at home, without
danger or smoke.
But this hy the hy: while I was cutting down
some wood here, I perceived that hehind a very thick
hranch of low hrushwood, oi underwood, there was
a kind of hollow place; I was curious to look into it,
and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I
found it was pretty large, that is to say, sufficient for
me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another with
me; hut I must confess to you, I made more haste
out than I did in, when, looking further into the place,
which was perfectly dark, I saw two hroad shining
eves of some creature, whether devil or man I knew
Dot, whitt Wfcled like two stars, the dim light
781
from the cave's mouth shining directly in and making
the reflection.
However, after some pause, I recovered mysell
and hegan to call myself a thousand fools, and tell
myself, that he that was afraid to see the devil, was
nut fit to live twenty years in an island all alone, and
that I durst to helieve there was nothing in this cava
that was more frightful than myself; upon this, pluck-
ing up my courage, 1 took up a large firehrand, and
in I rushed agin, with the stick flaming in my hand?
1 had not gone three steps in, hut 1 was almost as
much frightened as I was hefore; for I heard a very
loud sigh, like that of a man in somc pain ; and it was
followed hy a hroken noise, as if of words half-ex-
pressed, and then a deep sigh again: I stepped hack,
and was indeed struck with such a surprise, that it put
me into a cold sweat; and if I had had an hat on my
head, I will not answer for it that my hair might
not have lifted it off. But still plucking up my spirits
as well as I could, and encouraging myself a little,
with considering that the power Mid presence of God
was every where, and was ahle to protect me; upon
this I stepped forward again, and hy the light of the
firehrand, holding it up a little over my head, I saw
lying on the ground a most monstrous frightful old
he goat, just making his will, as we say, gasping for
life, and dying indeed of mere old age.
I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out,
cud he essayed to get up, hut was not ahle to raise
himself; and I thought with myself, he might even
lie there; for if he had frightened me so, he would
certainly fright any of the savages, if any of them
should he so harJj as to come in there, while he had
1 was now recovered from my surprise, and hegan
to look round me, when 1 found the cave was hut
very small; that t; to say, it might he ahout twelve
feet over, hut in no manner of shape, either round or
square, nc hands navmgever heen employed in mak>
ng it hut those of mere nature. 1 ohserved also, that

LIFE AND ADVENTURES
there was a place at the farther side of it that went
in farther, hut so low, that it required roe to creep
upon my hands and knees to get mto it, and whithei
It went I knew not; so having no candle, I gave it
over for some time, hut resolved to come again the
next day, provided with candles and a tinder-hox,
which 1 had made of the lock of one of the muskets,
with some wildfire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day, i came provided with
six large candles of my own making, for 1 made very
good candles now of goats taliow ; and going" into
this low place, I was ohliged to creep upon all fours,
as I have said, almost ten yards; which, hy the way,
I thought was a venture hold enough, considering that
I knew not how far it might go, or what was heyond
It. When I was got through the straight, I found the
never was such a glorious sight seen on this island, I
dare say as it was, to look round the sides and roof
of this vault or cave. The walls reflected an hundred
thousand lights to me from my two candles; what it
was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any other pre-
cious stones, or gold, which I rather supposed it to
he, I knew not
.
The place i was in was a most delightful cavity,
or grotto, of its kind, as could he expected, though
perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and had
a sort of small loose gravel upon it; so that there was
no nauseous creature to he seen; neither was there
any damp or wet on the sides of the roof; the only
difficulty in it was the entrance, which, however, as
n was a place of security, and such a retreat as I
wanted, I thought that was a convenience; so that I
was really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved,
without any delay, to hring some of those things which
I was most anxious aliout to this place; particularly,
I resolved to hring hither my magazine of powder,
and all my spare arms, viz. two fowlmg-pieces (for 1
had three in all) and three muskets; (for of them I
had eight in all) so I kept at mv castle only five, which
roof rose highi

I helieve near twenty feet; hut
stood ready mounted like pieces of cannon, on my
utmost fence, and were ready also to take out upon
any expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition,
I was ohliged to open the harrel of powder which I
took up out of the sea, and which had heen wet; and
I found, that the water had penetrated ahout three or
four inches into the powder on every side, which,
caking and growing hard, had preserved the inside
like a kernel in a shell; so that I had near sixty
pounds of very good powder in the centre of the cask;
and this was an agreeahle discovery to me at that
time; so 1 cartied all away thither, never keeping
ahove two or three pounds of powder with me in my
castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind . I also car-
ried thither all the lead I had left for hullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the antient giants,
which were said to live in caves and holes in the
tocki, where none could come at them; for I per-
suaded myself while I was here, if five hundred sava-
ges were to hunt me, they could never find me out; ot
if they did, they would not venture to attack me here.
The old goat, which I found expiring, died in the
mouth of the cave the next day after 1 made this dis-
covery; and I found it much easier to dig a great
hole there, and throw him in, and cover him with
earth, than to drag him out; so I interred him there,
to prevent offence to my nose.
I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in
this island, and was so naturalized to the place, and
to the manner of living, that could I have hut enjoyed
the certainty that no savages would come to the place
to disturh me, I could have heen content iu have ca-
pitulated for spending the rest of my time there, even
to the last moment, till I had laid me down and died,
like the old goat, in the cave: I had also arrived to
some little diversions and amusements, which made
the time pass more pleasantly with me a great deal
than it did hefore; as, first, I had taught my Pol, at
I noted helore, to speak; and he did it so familiarly,
13
m UTf. A*D ADVETITRE?
and talked so articulately and plain, that it was very
pleasant to roc; and he lived with me no less thea
six-and twenty years; how long he mtgh live after-
wards I knew not; though I know they have a not:on
in the B nts: Is, that they live an hundred years; per'
haps some of my Polls may he alive there still, calling
after poor Rohin Crusoe to this day; I wish no Eng-
l:shmen the ill luck to come there and hear them \
hut if he did, he would certainly helieve it was the
pan ion to me for no less than sixteen years of my
time, and then died of mere old age ; as for my cats,
they multiplied, as I have ohserved, to that degree,
that I was ohliged to shoot several of them at first, to
keep them from devouring me, and all I had ; hut at
length, when the two old ones I hrought with roe
were gone, and after some time continually driving
them from me, and letting them have no provision
with me, they all ran wild into the woods, except two
or three favourites, which I kept tame, and whose
young, when they had any, I always drowned, and
these were part of my family: hesides these, I always
kept two or three household kids ahout me, which I
taught to feed out of my hand ; and I had also more
parrots which talked pretty well, and would all call
Rohin Crusoe, hut none like my first; nor, indeed,
did I take the pains with any of them that 1 had done
with him: 1 had also several tame sea-fowls, whose
names I know not, which 1 caught upon the shore,
and cut their wings; and the little stakes which I had
planted hefore my castle wall, heing now grown up
to a good thick grove, these fowls all lived among
these low trees, and hred there, which was very agree-
ahle to me: so that, as I said ahove I hegan to he
very well contented with the Pro t led, if it might hut
have heen secured from the dread of savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it might not he
amiss for all people who shal! meet with my story to
make this just ohservation from it, viz. How frequent-
ly, in the course of our l:rss, trie evil, which in Kself

we seek most to shun, and which, when we are fallen
'nto, is the most dreadful to us, isoftentimes the very
ncans or door of our deliverance, hy which alone we
can he raised again from the affliction we are fallen
into. I could give many examples of this in tho
course of my unaccountahle life; hut in nothing was
it more particularly remarkahle, than in the circum-
stances of my last years of solitary residence in this
island.
It was now the month of Decemher, as I said ahove,
m my twenty-third year ; and this heing the southern
solstice, for winter I cannot call it, was the particular
time of my harvest, and required my heing pretty
much ahroad in the fields; when going out pretty
early in the morning, even hefore it was thorough
day-light, I was surprised with seeing a light of
some fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of
ahout two miles, towards the end of the islands, where
I had ohserved some savages had heen, as hefore ; hut
not on the other side; hut, to my great affliction, it
was on my side of the island.
I was indeed terrihly surprised at the sight, and
stopped short within my grove, not daring to go out,
lest I might he surprised; and yet I had no more
peace within, from the apprehensions I had, that if
these savages, in ramhling over the island, should find
my corn standing, or cut, or any of my works and
improvements, they would immediately conclude that
there were people in the place, and would then never
five over till they found me out . In this extremity
went hack directly to my castle, pulled up the lad-
der after me, having made all things wtthout look as
w:ld and natural as 1 could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defence; I loaded all my cannon, as I
called them, that is to say, my muskets, which were
mounted upon my new fortification, and all my pis-
tols, and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp;
not forgetting seriously to recommend myself to the
divine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to de-
Iver me out of trie nands of the harharians; and in
this posture I continued ahout two hours, hut hegan
to he mighty impatient for intelligence ahroad, for
had no spies to send out.
After sitting awhile longer, and musing what 1
should do in this case, I was not ahle to hear sitt ng
in ignorance longer; so sitting up my ladder to the
side of the hill, where there was a flat place, as I oK
served hefore, and then pulling the ladder up aftei
me, 1 set it up again, and mounted to the top of the
hill; and pulling out my peispective glass, which 1 had
taken on purpose, 1 laid me down flat on my helly on
the ground, and hegan to look for the place. I
presently found there were no less than nine naked
savages sitting round a small fire they had made; not
to varm them, for they had no need of that, the wea-
ther heing extreme hot; hut as I supposed, to dress
some of their harharous diet of human flesh which
they had hrought with them, whether alive or dead 1
could not know.
They had two canoes with them, which they had
haled up upon the shore ; and as it was then tide oi
ehh, they seemed to me to wait the return of tire
flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine
what confusion this sight put me into, especially see-
ing them come on my side the island, and so near me
too; hut when 1 ohserved their coming must he al-
ways with the current of the ehh, I liegan afterwards
to be more sedate in my mind, heing satisfied that I
might go ahroad with safety all the time of tide oi
flood, if they were not on shore hefore; and having
made this ohservation, 1 went ahroad ahout my har
vest work witli the more composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the
tide made to the westward, I saw them all take hoat,
and row (or paddle, as we call it) all away ; I should
have ohserved, that for an hour and more hefore they
went off; they went to dancing, and I could easily
discern their postures and gestures hy my glasses: I
could only perceive, hy my nicest ohservation, that
187
they were stark naked, and had not the least cover-
ing upon them ; hut whether they were men orwomen,
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took
two guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my
girdle, and my great sword hy my side, without a
scahhard ; and with all the speed I was ahle to make,
I went away to the hill, where I had discovered ths
first appearance of all. As soon as I got thither
which was not less than two hours, (for I could not go
apace, heing so loaded with arms as I was,) I per-
ceived there had heen three canoes more of savages
on that place; and looking out further, 1 saw they
were all at sea together, making over for the main.
This was a dreadful sight to me, especially wheu,
going down to the shore, 1 could see the marks off
horror which the dismal work they had heen ahout
had left hehind it, viz. the hlood, the hones, and part
of the flesh of human hodies, eaten and devoured hy
those wretches with merriment and sport. I was so
filled with indignation at the S'ght, that 1 hegan now
to premeditate the destruction of the next that 1 saw
there, let them he who or how many soever.
It seemed evident to me, that the visits which they
thus made to this istand were not very frequent; for
it was ahove fifteen months hefore any more of thein
came on shere there again; that is to say, I nevei
saw them, or any footsteps or signals of them, in all
that time; for as to the rainy seasons, then they are
sure not to come ahroad, at least not so far; yet all
this while I lived uncomfortahly, hy reason of the
constant apprehensions 1 was in of their coming upon
me hy surprise; from whence I ohserve, that the ex
pectation of evil is more hitter than the suffering
especially if there is no room to shake off that ex
pectation or those apprehensions.
During all this time, I was in the murdering hu-
mour; and took up most of my hours, whicn should
have heen hetter employed, in contriving how to cir-
cumvent and fall upon them the very next time 1

should see them ; especially it they should he divided,
as they were the last time, into two parties; nor did
I consider at all, that if I killed one party, suppose
ten or a dozen, I was still the next day, or week, or
month, to kill another, and so another, even ad m/i-
nt'fwn, till I should he at length no less a murderer
than they were in heing men-eaters, and perhaps
much more so.
I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety
of mind, expecting that I should one day or other rah
Into the hands of those merciless creatures; if I did
at any time venture ahroad, it was not without look-
ing round me with the greatest care and caution ima-
ginahle; and now I found, to my great co nfort, how
nappy.it was that I had provideI a tame flock or
hera of goats; for I durst not, upon any account, fire
my g-.m, especially near that side of the island, where
they usually came, lest I should alarm the savages;
and if they had fled from me now, I was sure to have
them come hack again, with perhaps two or thrw
hundred canoes with them in a few days, and then 1
knew what to expect.
However, I wore out a year and three months more
hefore I ever saw any more of the savages, and then
I found them again, as I shall soon ohserve. It is
true, they might have heen there once or twice, hut
either they made no stay, or, at least, I did not hear
them; hut in the month of May, as near as f could
calculate, and in nSy four-and-twentieth year, I had
a very strange encounter with them, of which in its
place.
The perturhation of my mind, during this fifteen or
sixteen months interval, was very great; 1 slept un-
quiet, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often
started out of my sleep in the night; in the day great
trouhles overwhelmed my mind ; in the night I dream-
ed often of killing the savages, and the reason why
I might justify the doing of it. But to wave all this
for awhile, it was in the middle of May, on the siy-
teaatb day, I think, as well as my poor wooden ea1en
ilar would reckon, for I marked all t/Twn the post
still; I say, it was on the sixteenth of Mar thut il
hlew a great storm of wind all day, with a givat deal
of lightning and thunder, and a very foul nigr was
after it; 1 know not what.was the particular occasion
of it; hut as I was reading in the Bihle, and taken
up with serious thoughts ahout my present condition,
I was surprised with the noise of a gun as 1 thought,
fired at sea.
This was, to he sure, a surprise of a quite different
na ure from any 1 had met with hefore ; for the no
tions this put into my thoughts were quite of another
kind: I started up in the greatest haste imaginahle,
and in a trice clapped up my ladder to the middle
place of the rock, and pulled it after me, and mount-
mg it the second time, got to the top of the hill; that
very moment a flash of fire hade me listen for a second
f;un, which accordingly in ahout half a moment I
leard, and hy the sound knew that it was from that
part of the sea where 1 was driven out with the cur-
rent in my hoat.
I immediately considered that this must he soma
ship in distress, and that they had some comrade, or
some other ship in company, and fired these guns for
signals of distress, ana to ohtain help. I had this
presenceof mind at that minute as tothink.that though
I could not help them, it may he they might help me;
so I hrought together all the dry wood I could get at
hand, and making a good handsome pile, I set it on
fire upon the hill; the wood was dry, and hlazed
freel -, and though the wind hlew very hard, yet it
hurnt fairly out, so that I was certain, if there was any
such thmg as a ship, they must need see it, and no
douh uicy did ; for as soon as ever my fire hiased up
I hef -d another gun, and after that several others, all
from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night long,
till day hroke; and when it was hroad day, and the
air cleared up, I saw something at a great distance
at sra full east of the island, whether a sail, or an
Ui.ll, 1 coul not distinguish, no not with my glasses.
the distance was so great and the weather still some-
thing hasy also; at least :t was so out at sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move ; so I presently concluded
that it was a ship at anchor; and heing eager, yok
may he sure, to he satisfied, I took my gun in my
hand and ran towards the south-east side of the island,
to the rocks, where I had heen formerly carried away
with the current ; and getting up there, the weather
hy this time heing perfectly clear, 1 could plainly see,
to my great sorrow the wreck of a ship cast away in
the night upon those concealed rocks which I found
when I was out in my hoat; and which rocks, as ,hey
checked the violence of the stream, and made a kind
of counter-stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my
recovering then from the most desperate hopeless con-
dition that ever I had heen in all my life.
Thus, w hat is one man's safety is another man's de-
struction : for it seems these men, whoever they were,
heing out of their knowledge, and the rocks heing
wholly under water, had heen drived upon them in
the night, the wind hlowing hard at E. and E. N. E.
Had they seen the island, as I must necessarily sup
pose they did not, they must as I thought, have endea-
voured to have saved themselves on snore hy the help
of their hoat; hut the firing of their guns for help,
especially when they saw, as 1 imagined, my fi re,
filled me with many thoughts: first, 1 imagined, that,
upon seeing my light, they might have put themselves
into their hoat, and have endeavoured to make the
shore; hut that the sea going very higjt, they might
havs heen cast away; other times I unagined, that
they might have lost their hoat hefore, as might he
the case many ways ; as particularly, hy the hreaking
of the sea upon their ship, which many times ohliges
men to-stave, or take in pieces their hoat; and some-
times to throw it overhoard with their own hands ,
other times 1 imagined, they had some other ship os
ships in company, who, upon the signals of distress
they had made, had taken them up, and carried them
off; other whiles I fancied they were all gone off te
tra in their hoat, and heing hurried away hy the cur-
-ent that I had heen formerly in, were carred out into
the great ocean, where there was nothing hut misery
and perishing; and that perhaps they might hy this
.ime think of starving, and of heing in a condition to
•at one another.
All these were hut conjectures at hest, so, in the
'wndition I was in, I could do no more than look
jpon the misery of the poor men, and pity them;
which had still this good effect on my side, that it gave
me more and more cause to give thanks to God, who
had so happily and comfortahly provided for me in
my desolate condition; and that ol two ships' compa-
nies who were now cast away upon this part of the
world, not one life should he spared hut mine. I
leamt here again to ohserve, that it is very rare that
the providence of God casts us into any condition of
life ?o low, or any misery ?o great, hut we may see
something or other to he thankful for, and may see
Mhers in worse circumstances than our own.
Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom
I could not so much as see room to suppose any of
them were saved; nothing could make it rational, so
much as to wish or expect that they did not all perish
there, except the possihility only of their heing taken
mere possihility indeed ; for I saw not the least signal
or appearance of any such thing.
I cannot explain, hy any possihle energy of words,
what a strange longing, or hankering of desire, I felt
in my soul upon this sight; hreaking out sometimes
thus: "O that there had heen hut one or two, nay,
hut one soul saved out of the ship, to have escaped to
me, that I might hut have had one companion, ono
fellow-creature to have spokea to me, and to have
conversed with!" In all the time of my solitary life,
I never felt sn earnest, so strong a desire after tneso-
riety of my fellow-creatures or ho deep a regret at
the want of it

company: and this was hut
There are some secret moving springs in the affec-
tions, which, when they are set a going hy some oh-
ject in view, or he it some ohject though not in view-
yet rendered present to the mind hy the power of
imagination, that motion carries out the soul hy iuj
impetuosity to such violent eager emhracings of the
ohject, that the ahsence of it is insupportahle.
, Such were these earnest wishings, "That hut on•
tran had heen saved ! O that it had heen hut one !" I
helieve I repeated the words, "O that it had heen
hut one !" a thousand times; and my desires were so
moved hy it, that when I spoke the words, my hands
would clinch together, and my fingers press the palms
of my hands, that if I had had any sort thing in my
hand, it would have crushed it mvoluntarily; ana
my 'eeth in my head would stYike together, and set
against one another so strong, that lor some time I
couln not part them again.
Let the natunlists explain these things, and the rea-
son and manner of them; all I can say of them is to
descrihe the fact, which was ever surprising to me
when I found it, though I knew not from what i*
should proceed ; it was douhtless the affect of ardent
wishes, and of strong ideas formed in my mind, rea-
lising the comfort which the conversation of one of
my fellow-chnstians would have heen to me.
But it was not to he; either their fate, or mine, or
hoth, forhad it; for till the last year of my heing on
this island, I never knew whether any were saved
out of that ship, or no; and had only the affliction
some days after to see the corpse of a drowned hoy
come on shore, at the end of the island which was
next the shipwreck; he had on no clothes hut a sea-
man's waiscoat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers,
and a hlue linen shirt; hut nothing to direct me so
much as to guess what gat ion he was of: he had no-
thing m his pocket hut two pieces of eight, and a
tohacco-pipe ; the last was to me of ten umes more
mine than the first
.
It was now calm and I had a great mind to venture
out in my hoat to this wreck, not douhting hul I
might find something on hoard that might he useful
to me ; hut that did not altogether press me so much,
as the possihility that there might he yet some living
creature on hoard, whose life f might not only save,
hut might, hy saving that life, comfort my own to
the last degree: and this thought clung so to my heart,
that I could not he quiet night nor day, hut I must
venture out in my hoat on hoard this wreck; and
committing the rest to God's providence, I thought
the impression was so strong upon my mind, that it
could not he resisted, that it must come from some
tnvisihle direction, and that I should he wanting to
myself if I did not go.
Under the power of this impression, f hastened
hack to my castle, prepared every thing for my voy-
age, took a quantity of hread, a great pot of fresh
water, a compass to steer hy, a hottle of rum, (for 1
had still a great deal of lhat left) a hasket full of
raisins: and thus loading myself with every thing
necessary, I went down to my hoat, got the water out
of her, and got her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her,
and then went home again for more: my secend
cargo was a great hag full of•ice, the umhrella to set
up over my head for thade, another large pot full of
fresh water, and ahout two dozen of my small loaves,
or harley-cakes, more than hefore, with a hottle of
goat's milk, and a cheese: all which, with great la-
hour and sweat, I hrought to my hoat; and praying
to God to direct my voyage, I put out, and rowing
or paddling the canoe along the shore, I came at last
to the utmost point of the island, on that side, viz'
If. E. And now I was to launch out into the ocean,
and either to venture, or not to venture; I looked on
the rapid currents which ran constantly on hoth sides
of the island, at a distance, and which were very
terihle to ine, from the rememhrance of the hazard
I had heen in hefore, and my heart hegan to fail me;
for 1 foresaw, that if 1 was driven into eithr ofthes*
VOL. I
currents I should he carried a vast way out to sea,
and perhaps out of my reach, or sight of the island
again , and that then, as my hoat was hut small, if any
little gale of wind should rise, 1 should he inevitahly
lost.
These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I hegan
to give over my enterprise, and having haled my hoat
into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat
me down upon a little spot of rising ground, very pen
sive an I anxious, hetween fear and desire, ahout my
voyage; when, as I was musing, I could perceive thai
the tide was turned, and the flood came on, upon
ji which my going was for so many hours impracticahle*
,J this it presently occurred to me, that 1 should go up
(. to the highest piece of ground I could find, and oh-
5 serve, if I could, how the sets of the tide or currents
< lay, when the flood came in, that I might judge
,J whether, if I was driven one way out, I might not
i expect to he driven another way home, with the same
5 rapidness of the currents. This thought was no
% sooner in my head, hut I cast my eyes upon a little
\ hill which sufficiently overlooked the sea hoth ways,
'and from whence I had a clear view of the currents,
1 or sets of the tide, and which way I was to guide
2 myself in my return : here I found, that as the current
2 of the ehh set out close hy the south point of the
? island, so the current of the flood set in close hy the
S shore of the north side; and that I had nothing to do
,j hut to keep to the north of the island in my return,
!j and I should do well enough.
5 Encouraged with this ohservation, f resolved the
? next morning to set out with the first of the tide ; and
i reposing myself for that night in the canoe, under
? the great watch coat I mentioned, I launched out. I
5 made first a litte out to sea full north, till I hegan to
c feel the henefit of the current, which sat eastward, and
\ which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not sa
? hurry me as the southern side current had done hefore,
£ and so as to take from me all government of the
J hoat; hut having a strong steerage with my paddle, 1
J95
went, I say, at a great rate, directly for the wieck'
and in less than two hours I came up to it
.
It was a dismal sight to look at; the ship, which
hy its huilding was Spanish, stuck fast, jam hed in
hetween two rocks; all tne stem and quarter of her was
heaten to pieces with the sea; and as her forecastle,
which sturk in the rocks, had run on with great vio-
lence, her main-mast and fore-mast were hrought hy
the hoard, that is to say, hroken short off, hut her
holisprit was sound, and the head and how appeared
firm. When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon
her, which, seeing me coming, yelped and cried, and
as soon as I railed him, jumped into the sea to come
to me: and 1 took him into the hoat, hut found him
almost dead for hunger and thirst: I gave him a cake
of my hread, and he ate like a ravenous wolf that
had heen starving a fortnight in the snow : I then gave
the poor creature some fresh water, with which, if 1
would have let him, he would have hurst himself.
After this I went on hoard. The first sight I met
with was two men drowned in the cook-room, or
forecastle of the ship, with their anna iast ahout one
another. I concluded, as is indeed prohahle, that
when the ship struck, it heing in a storm, the sea hroke
so high, ana so continually over her, that the men
were not ahle to hear it, and were strangled with tho
constant rushing in of the water, as much as if they
had heen under water Besides the dog, there was
nothing left in the shin that had life, nor ar.y goods
that I could see, hut what were spoiled hy the water;
there were some casks of liquor, whether wine oi
hrandy I knew not, which lay lower in the hold, and ,
which, the water heing ehhed out, I could see; hu
they were too hig to meddle with: I saw several chests
which I helieved helonged to some of the seamen,
and I got two of them into the hoat without examin-
ing what was in them.
Had the stern of the ship heen fixed, and the fore
part hroken off, I am persuaded 1 might have made a
good voyage ; for hy what 1 found in these two chests,

I had room to suppose the ship had a great deal ol
wealth on hoard ; and if I may guess hy the course
she steered, she must have heen hound from the Bue-
nos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south partoi
Aner:ca, heyond the Brasils, to the Havanna, in tht
CJulph of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain : she had
no douht, a great treasure in her, hut of no use at tha
time to any hody; and what hecame of the rest o
her people I then knew not
.
I found, hesides these chests, a little cask full a
liquor, of ahout twenty gallons, which I got into m)
Iwat with much difficulty. There were several mus-
kt'tn in a cahin, and a great powder-horn, with ahout
four pounds of powder in it: as for the muskets, I
hod no occasion for them, so I left them, hut took the
riwder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which
wanted extremely; as also two little hrass kettles,
a copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron ; and
with this cargo, and the dog, I came away, the tide
heginning to make home again; and the same even-
ing, ahout an hour within night, I reached the island
again, weary and fatigued to the last degree.
I reposed that night in the hoat, and in the morning
I resolved to harhour what I had gotten in my new
cave, not to carry it home to my castle. After re-
freshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and hegan
to examine the particulars: the cask of liquor I found
to he a kind of roin, hut not such as we had at the
Brasils; and, in a word, not all good; hut when I
came to open the chests, I found several things which
I wanted: for esample, I found in one a fine case of
hottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled with cop-
dial waters, fine, and very good , the hottles held
•hoot three pints each, and were tipped with silver
1 found two pots of very good suocades, or sweet
meats, so fastened also on the top, that the salt watet
had not hurt them ; and two more of the same, which
the water had spoiled: 1 found some very good shirts,
which were very welcome to me, and ahout a dozen
and a halt of white linen handkerchiefs and coloured
neckcloths; the former were also very welcome, heing
exceeding refreshing to wipe my face in a hot day.
Besides this, when I came to the till in the chest, I
found there three great hags of pieces of eight, which
held ahout eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one
of them, wrapt up in a paper, six douhloons of gold,
and some small hars or wedges of gold ; I suppose
they might all weigh near a pound.
The other chest 1 found had some clothes in it, hu <
of little value ; hut hy the circumstances, it must ha\s
helonged to the gunner's mate, as there was no powder
in it, hut ahout two pounds of glazed powder in the
three flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their fowl-
ing-pieccs on occasion. Upon the whole, I got very
little hy this voyage that was of much use to me; for,
as to the money, f had no manner of occasion for it;
J it w%s to me as the dirt under my feet; and I would
J have given it all for three or four pair of English
shoes and stockings which were things I greatly want
ed, hut had not had on my feet now for many years:
1 had, indeed, got two pair of shoes now, which 1
took off the feet of the two drowned men whom I
taw in the wrecx ; and I found two pair more in one
of the chests, which were very welcome to me; hut
they were n * like our English shoes, either for ease
or service, heing rather what we call pumps than
shoes. I found in the seamen's chest ahout fifty pie-
ces of eight in royals, hut no gold : 1 suppose this he-
longed to a poorer man than the other, which seemed
to helong to some officer.
Well, however, I lugged the money home to my
cave, and laid it up, as I had done that hefore, which
I hrought from our own ship; hut it was great pity,
as 1 said, that the other part of the ship had not con a
to my share, for I am satisfied I might have loaded
my canoe several times over with money, which, if I
had ever escaped to England, would have lain here
safe enough till I might have come again and fetched it
Having now hrought all my things on shore, and
secured them. I went hack to mv hoat, and rowed or
riddled her along the shore to her old harhour, where
laiJ her up, and made the hest of my way to my
old hahitation, where I found every thing safe and
quiet; so I hegan to repose myself, live alter my old
fashion, and take care of my family affairs; and for
awhile I lived easy enough; only that I was more vi
gilant than I used to he, looked out oftener, and did
not go ahroad so much ; and if at any time I did si r
with any freedom, it was always to the east part of
the island, wherel was pretty well satisfied the savages
never came, and where I could go without so many
precautions, and such a load of arms and ammunition
em I always carried with me, if I went the other way.
I lived in this conditio,i near two years more; hut
my unlucky head, that was always to let me know it
was horn to make my hody miserahle, was all theso
two years filled with projects and designs, how, if it
were possihle, I might get away from this island ; for
sometimes I was for making another voyage to the
wreck, though my reason told me, that there was no-
thing left there worth the hazard of my voyage; some-
times for a ramhle one way, sometimes another; and
I helieve verily, if I had had the hoat that I went from
Sal lee in, I should have ventured to sea, hound any
where, I knew not whither.
I have heen, in all my circumstances, a memento
to those who are touched with that general plague of
mankind, whence, for aught 1 know, one half of their
miseries flow; I mean, that of not heing satisfied with
the station wherein God and nature hath placed them;
or, not to look hack upon my primitive condition,
and the excellent advice of my father, the opposition
to which was, as I may call it, my original sin, my
suhsequent mistakes of the same kind have heen the
means of my coming into this miserahle condition
for had that Providence, which so happily had seated
me at the Brasilsas a planter, hlessed me with con-
fined desires, and could I have heen contented to have
gone on gradually, I might have heen hy this time, I
mean in the time of my hemg on this island, one oJ
the most considerahle planters in the Brasils; nay, f
•m persuaded, that hy the improvements I nad madt
in that little time I lived there, and the increase I
should prohahly have made if I had stayed. I might
have heen worth a hundred thousand moidores; ant
what husiness had I to leave a settled forture, well
ctocked plantation, improving and increasing, to tun
supercargo to Guinea, to fetch Negroes, when patienci
and time would have so increased our stock at home
that we could have hought them at our own doon
from those whose husiness it was to fetch them? Am
though it had cost us something more, yet the differ
ence of that price was hy no means worth saving a
so great a hazard.
But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads,
so reflection upon the folly of it is as ordinarily the
exercise of more years, or of the dear-hought expe-
rience of time; and so it was with me now ; and yet,
so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper,
that I could not satisfy myself in my station, hut was
continually poring upon the means and possihility of
my escape from this place; and that I may, with the
preater pleasure to the reader, hring on the remain-
mg part of my story, it may not he improper to give
some account of my first conceptions on the suhject
of this foolish scheme for my escape; and how, and
upon what foundation, 1 acted.
I am now to he supposed to he retired into my
castle, after my late voyage to the wreck, my fr'gaui
hid up, and secured under water as usual, and my
condition restored to what it was hefore; I had mor%
wealth, indeed, than I had hefore, hut was not at alt
the richer; for I had no more use for it than the In-
dians of Peru had hefore the Spaniards came hither.
It was one of the nights in the rainy season in
March, the four-and twentieth year of my first setting
foot in this island of solitariness, I was lying in my
hed or hammock, awake, and very well in health, had
no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of hody, no,
aor any uneasmess of mind more than nrdinary, hut
rould hy no means close my eyes, that is, so as to
sleep; no, not a wink at .tight long, otherwise than
as follows:
It is as impossihle as needless to set down the innu-
merahle crowd of thoughts that whirled through that
great thoroughfare of the hrain, the memory, m this
night's time: I ran over the whole history :f my life
in miniature, or hy ahridgment, as I may call it, to
my coming to this islano , and also of that part of my
life since Icame to this island; in my reflections upon
the state of my case, since 1 came on shore on this
island; I was comparing the happy posture of my af-
fairs, in the first years of my habitation here, to that
course of anxiety, fear and care, which I had lived in
ever since I had seen the print of a foot in the sand |
not that I did not helieve the savages had frequented
the island even all the while, and might have heen
several hundred of thent at times on the shore there;
hut as I had never known it, and was incapahle of
any apprehensions ahout it, my satisfaction was per-
fect, though my danger was the same; and I was as
happy in not knowing my danger, as if I had never
really heen exposed to it; this furnished my thoughts
with many very profitahle reflections, and particularly
this one: How infinitely good that Providence is,
which has settled in its government of mankind such
narrow hounds to his sight and knowledge of things i
and though he walks in the midst of so many thousand
dangers, the sight of which, if discovered to him,
would distract his mind and sink his spirits, he is kept
serene and calm, hy having the events of things hid
from his eyes and knowing nothing of the dangers
which surround him.
After these thoughts had for some time entertained
me, I came to reflect seriously upon the real dangei
1 had heen in for so many years in this very island |
and how I had walked ahout in the greatest security,
and with all possihle tt Annuility, even perhaps when
nothing hut a hrow on a hill, a great tree or the ca
sua! approach of night, had heen hetween i.ie and the

20i

worst kind of destruction, vir. that of falling into the
hands of cannihals and savages, who would have
seized on me with the same view as 1 did on a goat
or a turtle, and have thought it no more a crime to
kill and dev rur me, than I did of a pigeon or curlew.
I should unjustly slander myself, if I should say I
was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to
whose singular protection I acknowledged, with great
humility, that all these unknown deliverances were
due, and without which I should inevitahly have fal-
len into their merciless hands.
When these thoughts were over, my head was for
some time taken up in considering the nature of these
wretched creatures, I mean, the savages; and how it
came to pass in the world, that the wise Governor of
all things should give up any of his creatures to such
inhumanity, nay, to something so much helow even
hrutality itself, as to devour its own kind ; hut as this
ended in some (at that time fruitless) speculations, it
occurred to me to inquire what part of the world these
wretches lived in; how far off the coast was from
whence they came; what they ventured so far from
home for; what kind of hoats they had; and why I
might not order myself, and my husiness so, that
I might he as ahle to go over thither, as they were to
come to me.
I never so much as trouhled myself to consider
what I should do with myself when I came thither:
what should hecome of me if I fell into the hands of
the savages; or how I should escape from them, if
they attempted me; no, nor so much as how it was
possihle for me to reach the coast, and not he attacked
by some or other of them, without any possihility of
delivering myself; and if I should not fall into their
hands, what I should do for provision, or whither I
shotAd hend my course : none of these thoughts, 1 say,
so much as came in my way; hut my mind was
wholly hent upon the notion of my passing over in
tn) wst to the main land. 1 looked hack upon my
present condition as the most miserahle that could
possihly lie; that I was not ahle to throw myself into
any thing hut death that could he called worse ; that
if I reached the shore of the main, I might, perhaps
meet with relief; or 1 might coast along, as I did on
the shore of Africa, till I came to some inhahited
country, and where I might find some relief; and after
11, perhaps, I might fall in with some Christian ship
that might take me in; and if the worst came to the
worst, I could hut die, which would put an end to all
these miseries at once. Pray, note all this was the
fruit of a disturhed mind, an impatient temper, made,
as it were, desperate hy the long continuance of my
trouhles, and the disappointments I had met in the
wreck I had heen on hoard of, and where I had heen
so near the ohtaining of what I so earnestly longed for,
viz. somehody to speak to, and to learn some know-
ledge from of the place where I was, and of the pro-
hahle means of my deliverance; I say, I was agitated
wholly hy these thoughts. All my calm of mind in
my resignation to Providence, and waiting the issue
of the disposition of Heaven, seemed to he suspended •
and I had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts
to any thing hut the project of a voyage to the main;
which came upon me with such force, and such an
impetuosity of desire that it was not to he resisted.
When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours
or more, with such violence that it set my very hlood
into a ferment, and my pulse heat as high as iff had
heen in a fever, merely with the extraordinary fer-
vour of my mind about it; nature, as if I had heen
fatigued and exhausted with the very thought of it,
threw me into a sound sleep: one would have thought
I should have dreamed of it; hut I did not, nor of
any thmg relating to it; hut I dreamed, that as 1 was
going out in the moming, as usual, from my castle, I
saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages
coming to land, and that they hrought with them an-
other savage, whom they were going to kill, in ordef
to eat him; when on a sudden, the savage that ti ej
were going to kill jumped away, and ran for his life,
•hen 1 thought in my sleep, that he came running into
my little thick grove, hefore my fortification, to hide
himself; and that I seeing him alone, and not perceiv
ing that the others sought him that way, shewed my-
self to him, and, smiling upon him, encouraged him:
that he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray me to
assist him; upon which I shewed my ladder, made
him go up it, and carried him into my cave, and he
hecame my servant; and that as soon as I had got
this man, I said to myself, "Now I may certainly
venture to the main land; for this fellow will serve me
as'a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither
to go for provisions, and whither not to go for fear of
heing devoured; what places to venture into, and
what to escape. I waked with this thought, and was
under such mexpressihle impressions of joy at the
prospect of my escape in my dream, that the disap-
Jxiintments which I felt upon coming to myself, and
Hiding it was no more than a dream, were equally
extravagant the other way, and threw me into a very
great dejection of spirit.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that
my only way to go ahout an attempt for an escape,
was if possihle, to get a savage in my possession;
and if possihle, it should he one of their prisoners
whom they had condemned to he eaten, and should
hring hither to kill: hut these thoughts still were at-
tended with this difficulty, that it was impossihle to
effect this, without attacking a wholecaravan ofth^m,
c'nd killing them all; ffhd this was not only a very des-
perate attempt, and might miscarry; hut, on the other
hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness of it to
me, and my heart tremhled at the thoughts of shedding
so much hlood, though it was for my deliverance : I
need not repeat the arguments which occurred to me
against this, they heing the same mentioned hefore:
hut though I had other reasons to offer now, viz. that
those men were enemies to my life, and would devour,
me rf thev cuuli that it was self-preservation! in the
highest degree, to deliver myself from this death ( f a
life, and was acting in my own defence, as much as
if they were actually assaulting me, and the like; X
say, though these things argued for it, yet the thoughts
of shedding human hlood for my deliverance were
very terrihle to me, and such as I could hy no means
reconcile myself to a great while.
However, at last, after many secret disputes with
myself, and after great perplexities ahout it, (for all
these arguments, one way and another, struggled in
my head a long time,) the eager prevailing desires of
deliverance at length mastered all the rest, and I re-
solved, if possihle, to get one of these sai ages into my
hands, cost what it would : the next thin {then was tq
contrive how to do it; and this indeed ? as very dim-
cult to resolve on: hut as I ciuld pitch upon no pro-
hahle means for it, so I resolved to put iiyself upon
the watch to see them when they came •u shore, and
leave the rest to the event, taking such measures as the
opportunity should present, let it he what u would.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, \ s*t myself
upon the scout as often as possihle, and ii deed so
often, till I was heartily tired of it; for it vi* ahove
a year and a half that I waited, and for a grew pari
of that time went out to the west end, ana *o the
south-west corner of the island, almost every da», to
see the canoes, hut none appeared. This was very
discouraging, and hegan to trouhle me much; though
I can't say that it did in this case, as it had done soma
time hefore that, viz. wear of the edge off my desire
to the thing; hut the longer it seemed to he delayed,
the more eager I was for it: in a word, I was not at
first more careful to shun the sight of these savages,
and avoid heing seen hy them, than I was now eager
to he upon 1hem.
Besides, I fancied myself ahle to manage one, nay,
two or three savages, if i had them, so as to make
them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should
direct them, and to prevent their heing ahle, at any
time, to do me any hurt . It was a great while that I
pIeasnd myself with this affair, hut nothing still pro.
•anted; all my fancies and schemes came to nothing,
for no savages came near me for a great while.
Ahout a year and a half after I had entertained
these notions, and, hy long musing, had, as it were,
resolved them all into nothing, for want of an occa-
sion to put them in execution, I was surprised one
morning early, with seeing no less than five canoes all
on shore together, on my side the island, and the peo-
ple who helonged to them all landed, and out of mj
eight: the numher of them hroke all my measures •
for seeing so many, and knowing that they always
came four, or six, or sometimes more, in a hoat, I
could not tell what to think of it, or how to take my
measures, to attack twenty or thirty men single-hand
ed; so I lay still in my castle, perplexed and discom
forted ; however, I put myself into all the same pos-
tures for an attack that I had formerly provided, and
was lost ready for action, if any thing had presented.
Havmg waited a good while, listening to hear if they
made any noise; at length heing very impatient, I set
my guns at the foot of my ladder, and clamhered up
to the top of the hill hy my two stages, as usual,
standmg so, however, that my head did not appear
ahove the hill, so that they could not percieve me hy,
any means. Here I ohserved, hy the help of my per-
spective glass, that they were no less than thirty icf
numher; that they had a fire kindled, and that they
had had meat dressed; how they cooked it, that I
knew not, or what it was; hut they were all dancing
in I know not how many harharous gestures and
figures, their own way, round the fire.
When I was thus looking on them, I perceived hy
my perspectives two miserahle wretches dragged from
the hoats, where, it seems, they were laid hy, and
were now hrought out for the slaughter: 1 perceived
one of them immediately fall, heing knocked down, 1
suppose, with a cluh or wooden sword, for that was
their way; and two or three others were at work im-
Dirdiately, cutting him open fur their cookery, whita
the other victim was left standing hy himself, till they
should he ready for him. In that very moment this
poor wretch, seeing himself a little at liherty, nature
inspired him with hopes of life, and he siarted away
from them, and ran with incredihle swiftness along
the sands, directly towards me, I mean towards that
part of the coast where my hahitation was.
I was dreadfully frighted (that 1 must acknowledge
when I perceived him to run my way; and especialf
when, as I thought, I saw him pursued hy the whols
hody ; and now /expected that part of my dream was
coming to pass, and that he would certainly take
shelter in my grove; hut I could not depend, hy any
means, upon my dream for the rest of it, viz. that the
osher savages would not pursue him thither, and find
him there. However, I kept my station, and my
spirits hegan to recover, when I found that there were
not ahove three men that followed him ; and still
more was 1 encouraged, when 1 found that he out-
striptthem exceedingly in running, and gained ground
of them, so that if he could hut hold it for half an
hour, I saw easily he would fairly get away from
them all.
There was hetween them and my castle the creek,
which I mentioned often'at the first part of my stort^
when I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this
I knew ht. must necessarily swim over, or the pooi
wretch would he taken there: hut when the savage
escaping came thither, he made nothing of it^ though
the tide was then up; hut plunging in swam through
in ahout thirty strokes, or thereahouts, landed, aid
ran on with exceeding strength and swiftness. When
the three pursuers came to the creek, I found that two
of them could swim, hut the third could not, and that
he, standing on the other side, looked at the other,
hut went no farther; and soon after went softly hack
again, which, as it happened, was very well for him
in the main.
I ohserved, tha' the two who swam were yet mc re
than twice as long dimming over the creek than the
fellow was that fled from them. It came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed hresistihly,
that now was my time to get a servant and perhaps a
companion or assitant, and that I was called pla:nly
hy Providence to save this poor creature's life. I im
mediately got down the ladders with all possihle ex-
ped,tton, fetched my two guns, for they were hoth at
the foot of the ladder, as 1 ohserved ahove ; and get'
ting up again with the same haste to the top of the hill
I crossed towards the sea; and having a very short
cut, and all down hill, clapped myself in the way he-
tween the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud
to him that fled, who, looking hack, was at first per
haps as much frighted at me as at them ; hut I heckon-
ed with my hand to him to come hack ; and in the
meantime I slowly advanced toward the two that fol-
lowed ; then rushing at once upon the foremost, I
knocked him down with the stock of my piece; I was
loath to fire, hecause I would not have the rest hear,
though at that distance it would not have heen easily
heard; and heing out of sight of the smoke too, they
would not have easily known what to make of it
.
Having knocked this fellow down, the other who pur-
sued him stopped, as if he had heen frightened, and I
advanced apace towards him; hut as I came nearer, I
perceived presently he had a how and arrow, and was
fitting it to shoot at me; so I was then necessitated to
shoot at Mm first; which I did, and killed him at the
first shot . The poor savage w ho fled, hut had stopped,
though he saw hoth his enemies fallen, and killed, (as
he thought) yet was so frighted with the fire and noise
of my piece, that he stood stock-still, and neither came
forward nor went hackward, though he seemed rather
nclined to fly still, then tocomenn. I hallooed again
|o him, and made signs to come forward, which he
easily understood, and came a little way, then stopped
again, and then a little farther, and stopped again;
and I could then perceive that he stood tremhl:ng, as
if he had heen taken prisoner, and had just heen to
he killed as his two enemies were. I heckoned him
103
LITE AND ADVENTURES
again to come to me, and give him all the signs of en>
cnuragement that I could think of; and he came n earef
and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps,
in token of acknowledgement for saving his life. I
smiled at him, and looked pleasantly, and heckoned
to him to come still nearer. At length he came close
to me, and then he kneeled down again, kissed the
ground, and laid his head upon the ground, and taking
me hy the foot, set my foot upon his head. This, i
seems, was in token of swearing to he my slave for
ever. I took him up, and made much of him, and
work to do yet; for I perceived the savage, whom I
knocked down, was not killed, hut stunned with the
hlow, and hegan to come to himself; so I pointed to
him and shewed him the savage, that he was not
dead: upon this he spoke some words to me; and
though I could not understand them, yet I thought
they were pleasant to hear,for they were the first sound
of a man's voice that I had heard, my own excepted,
for ahove five-and-twenty years. But there was nil
time for such reflections now ; the savage, who wat
knocked down, recoved himself so far as to sit up
upon the ground ; and I perceived that my savage he-
gan to he afraid ; hut when I saw that, I presented
my other piece at the man, as if I would shoot him i
upon this my savage, for so I called him now, made a
motion to me to lend him my sword, which hung
naked in a helt hy my side: so I did: he no sooner
had it, hut he runs to his enemy, and at one hlow cut
ofT his head so cleverly, no executioner in Germany
could have done it sooner or hetter; which I thought
very strange for one, who, I had reason to helieve,
never saw a sword in his life hefore, except their own
wooden swords: however, it seems, as I learnt after-
wards they make their wooden swords so sharp, so
heavy, and the wood is so hard, that they will cut ofl
heads even with them, nay, and arms, and that at ono
hlow too. When he had done this, he comes laughing
So me in sign of triumph, and hrought me the swora

But there was mors
'gatn, and, with ahundance of gestures, which I did
not understand, laid it down, with the head of the
lavages that he had killed, ju-t hefore me.
But that which astonished him most was, to know
how 1 had killed the other Indian so far off; so point-
ing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to him
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. "W>
to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him J
turned him first on one side, then on t'other; looked
at the wound the hullet had made, which it seems was
just in his hreast, where it had made a hole, and no
great quantity of hlood had followed ; hut he had hled
inwardly, for he was quite dead. Then he took up
his hqw and arrows, and came hack; so I turned to
go away, and heckoned him to follow me, making
signs to him that more might come after them.
Upon this he signed to me, that he should hury
them with sand, that they might not he seen hy tha
rest, if they followed; and so I made signs again to
him to do so. He fell to work, and in an instant ha
had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, hin
enaugh to hury the first in, and then dragged him into
it, and covered him, and did so also hy the other; 1
helieve he had huried them hoth in a quarter of an
hour: then calling him away, I carried him not to my
castle, hut quite away to my cave, on the farthos
part of the island ; so I did not let my dream come tr
pass in that part; via. that he came into my grovs
for shelter.
Here I gave him hread and a hunch of raisins tr
sat, and a draught of water, which I found he waj
indeed in great distress for, hy his running; and hav
ing refreshed him, I made signs for him to go to lif
down and sleep; pointing to a place where I had laid
a great parcel of rice-straw, and a hlanket upon it,
which I used to sleep upon myself sometimes; so th#
poor creature lay down and went to sleep.
He was a comely handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with straight long limhs, not too large, tall,
and well shaped, and, as 1 reckon, ahout twenty-si*
years of age. He had a very good countenance, not
a fierce and surly aspect, hut seemed to have soma
thing very manly in his face, and yet he had all the
sweetness and softness of an European in his coun-
tenance too, especially when he smiled : his hair wM
long and hlack, not curled like wool; his forehead
very high and large, and a great vivacity and spark
ling sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his skin was
not quite hlack, hut very tawny, and yet not of an
ugly yellow nauseous tawny, as the Brasilians and
| Virginians, and other natives of America are, huufa
hright kind of a dun olive colour, that had ir it
something very agreeahle, though not very easy to de-
scrihe. His face was round and plump, his nose
small, not flat like the Negroe's, a very good' mouth,
thin lips, and his teeth tine, well-set, and white as
ivory. After he had slumhered, rather than slept,
ahout half an hour, he waked again, and comes out of
the cave to me, for I had heen milking my goats,
which I had in the enclosure just hy ; when he espied
me, he came running to me, laying himself down
again upon the ground, with all the possihle signs of
an humhle thankful disposition, making many antic
gestures to shew it. At last he lays his head flat upon
the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot
upon his head, as he had done hefore ; and after this,
made all the signs to me of suhjection, servitude, and
suhmission imaginahle, to let me know how much he
would serve me as long as he lived. I understood
him in many things, and let him know I was very
well pleased with mm. In a little time I hegan to
speak to him, and teach him to speak to me; and first,
I made him know his name should he Friday, which
was the day I saved his life; and I called him so for
the memory of the time; I likewise taught him to say
Maste,, and then let him know that was to he my
name; I likewise taught him to say Yes and No, and
to know the meaning of them. I gave him some milk
in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink it hefots
him, and sop my hread in U; and I gave him a caks
•f hread to do the like, which he quickly complied
with, and made signs that it was very good foi him.
I kept there with him all that night; hut as soon as
It was day, I heckoned him to come with me, and let
him know 1 would give him some clothes; at which
he seemed very glad, for he was stark-naked. As we
went hy the place where he had huried the two men,
he pointed exactly to the spot, and shewed me tho
marks that he had made to find them again, making
signs to me that we should dig them up again, and eat
them: at this I appeared very angry, expressed my
ahhorrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the
thoughts of it, and heckoned with my hand to him to
come away, which he did immediately, with great
suhmission. I then let him up to the top of the hill,
to see if his enemies were gone, and pulling out my
glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place where tl:ey
had heen, hut no appearance of them, or of their
oanoes; so thai it was plain that they were gone, and
had left their two comrades hehind them, without any
search after them.
But I was not content with this discovery; hut
having now more courage, and consequently more
curiosity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him
the sword in his hand, with the how and arrows at his
hack, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for my-
self, and away we marched to the place where these
creatures had heen ; for I had a mind now to get some
fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the
place, my very hlood ran chill in my veins, and my
heart sunk within me at the horror of the spectacle .
indeed it was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me,
though Friday made nothing of it: the place was co-
vered* with human hones, the ground dyed with tho
hlood, great pieces of flesh left here and there, hnlf-
eaten, mangled, and scorched ; and, in short, all the
tokens of the trinmphant feast they had heen making
there, after a victor}' over their enemies. I saw three
ikulls, five hands, and the hones of three or four legs
and feet, and ahundance of other parts of the hodies
and Friday, hy his signs made me understand thai
they hrought over four prisoners to feast upon; that
three of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to
nimself, was the fourth; that there had heen a great
hattle hetween them and their next king, whose suh-
jects, it seems, he had heen one of; and that they had
taken a great numher of prisoners, all which were car-
ried to several places hy those that had taken them in
the flight, in order to feast upon them, as was dona
here hy these wretches upon those they hrought hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, hones, flush,
and whatever remained, and lay them together on an
heap, and make a great fire upon it, and hurn them
to ashes. I found Friday had still an hankering
stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a canni-
hal in his nature; hut 1 discovered so much ahhor-
rence at the very thoughts of it, and at the least ap-
pearance of it, that he durst not discover it; for I
nad, hy some means, let him know that 1 would kill
him if he offered it.
When we had done this, we came hack to out
oastle, and there I fell to work for my man Friday;
and first of all, 1 gave him a pair of linen drawers,
which I had out of the poor gunner's chest I men-
tioned, and which 1 found ir. the wreck ; and which,
with a little alteration, fitted him very well; then I
made him a jerkm of goat's skin as well as my skill
would allow, and I was now giown a tolerahle good
tailor; and I gave him a cap, which I had made of a
nare-skin, very convenient, and fashionahle enough .
and thus he was dressed, for the present, tolerahly
well, and mighty well was he pleased to see himself
almost as well clothed as his master. It is true, he
went awkwardly in these things at first; wearing the
drawers was very awkward to him, and the sleevea
of the waistcoat galled his shoulders and th* inside
of his arms; hut a little easing them, where he com-
plained they hurt him, and usmg himself to them, at
ien^th he took to them very well.
Hie next day after I came home to my hutch with
him, I hegar tc consider where I should lodge him;
am! that 1 might do well for him, and yet he perfeclty
easy myself 1 made a little tent for him in the vacant
place hetween my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last, and in the outside of the first: and as there
whs a door or entrance there into my cave, I made a
Jbrmal framed door-case, and a door to it of hoards*
and set it up in the passage, a little within the en-
trance; and causing the door to open to the inside, \
harred it up in the mght, taking in my ladders too . so
that Friday could no way come at me in the inside of
the innermost wall without making so much noise in
getting ovei, that it must needs awaken me; for my
first wall had now a complete roof over it of long
poles, covering all my tent; and leaning up to the side
of the hill, which was again laid cross with small
sticks mstead of laths, and then thatched over a great
thickness with the rice straw, which was strong like
reeds; and at the hole or place which was left to go
In or out hy the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap-
door, which if it had heen attempted on the outside,
would not have opened at all, hut would have fallen
down, and made a great noise ; and as to weapons, I
took them all in to my side every night.
But I needed none of all this precaution; for never
man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than
Friday was to me; without passions, sullennes, or
designs; perfectly ohliging and engaging; his very
affections were tied to me, like those of a child to a
father; and I dare say, he would have sacrificed his |
life for the saving mme, upon any occasion whatso-
ever the many testimonies he gave me of this put it
outoi Jouht; and soon convinced me, that 1 needed
to use no precautions as to my safety on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to ohserve, and
that with wonder, that, however it had pleased God
In his providence, and in the government of the
works of his hands, to take from so great a part oj
the w"i' J of his creal ures the bast uses to which their
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
faculties, antl the powers of their souls, are adapted,
yet that he has hestowed upon Ihem the same powers
tin1 same reason, the same affections, the same senti-
ments of kindness and ohligation, the same passions
and resentments of wrongs, the same sense of grati-
tude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of doing
good, and receiving good, that he has given to us;
and that when he pleases to offer them occasions of
exerting these, they are as ready, nay more ready, to
apply them to the right uses for which they were he-
stowed, than we are. And this made me very melan-
cholv sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions
presented, how mean an use we make of all these,
even though we have these powers enlightened hy the
great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God, and hy
the knowledge of his word, added to our understand*
Ing; and why it has pleased God to hide the like sav-
ing knowledge from so many millions of souls, who.
If I might judge hy this poor savage, would make a
much hetter use of it than we did.
From hence I sometimes was led too far to invadt
the sovereignty of Providence; and, as it were, ar-
raign the iustice of so arhitrary a disposition of things,
that should hide that light from some, and reveal it to
others, and yet expect a like duty from hoth: hutl
shut it up, and checked my thoughts with this conchs-
tion: first, that we do not know hy what light and law
these should he condemned; hut that as God was ne-
cessarily, and hy the nature of his heing infinitely
holy and just, so it could not he, hut that if these crea-
tures were all sentenced to ahsence from himself, it
was on account of sinning against that light, which,
as the Scripture says, was a law to themselves, and hy
euch rules as their consciences would acknowledge to
he just, though the foundation was not discovered to
us; and, secondly, that still, as we are all clay in tho
hand of the potter, no vessel could say to him, "Why
oast thou formed mc thus?"
But to return to my new companion : I was great!s
delighted witit him, and made it my husiness to teach
him every thing that was proper to make him useful,
handy, and helpful; hut especially to make him speak
and understand me when I spake; and he was the
aptest scholar that ever was : and particularly was so
merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased when tw
could hut understand me, or make me understand
Mm, that it was very pleasant to me to talk tc him.
And nov my life hegan to he so easy, that I hegan to
•ay to myself, that could I hut have heen safe from
more savages, 1 cared not if I was never to remove
from the place where 1 lived.
After I had heen two or three days returned to my
castle, I thought, that, in order to hring Friday off
from this horrid way of feeding, and from the relish
of a cannihal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other
flesh ; so I took him out with me one morning to the
woods: I went, indeed intending to kill a kid out tf
my own flock, and hrr .g it home and dress it: hut as
I was going, I saw a she goat lying down in the shade,
and two young kids sitting hy her. I catched hold of
Friday; "Hold," said I, "stand still;" and made
signs to him not to stir. Immediately Ipresented my
ptece, shot and killed one of the kids. The poorcrea-
ture, who had, ai a distance indeed, seen me kill tha
savage his enemv, hut did net know, or could imagine
how it was done, was sensihly surprised, tremhled
and shook, and looked so amazed, that I thought ha
would have sunk down : he did not seethe kid I had
shot at, or perceive I had killed it, hut ripped up his
waiscoat to feel if he was not wounded : and, as I
found, presently thought I was resolved to kill him
for he came and kneeled down to me. and, emhrac-
ing my knees, said a great many things 1 did not un-
derstand ; hut I could easily see that his meaning was
to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him, that I would
do him no harm; and taking him up hy hy the hand,
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which I had
killed, heckoned to hun to run and fetch it, which ha
did , and while he was wondering and looking to t.M
15
how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun agar*
and hy and hy I taw a great fowl, like a hawk, si
upon a tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand
a little what I would do, I called him to me again,
pointing at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot,
though! thought it had heen a hawk ; I say, pointing
to the parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground under
the parrot, to let him see 1 would make him fall, I
mane him understand that I would shoot and kill thai
hird ; accordingly I fired, and hid him look, and im
mediately he saw the parrot fall; he stood like one
frighted again, notwithstanding all that I had said ta
him ; ana I found he was the more amazed, hecause
he did not see me put any thing into the gun; hut
thought there must be some wonderful fund of death
and destruction in that thinej, ahle to kill man, heast,
hird, or any thing near or far off; for the astonish-
ment this created in him was such, as could not weai
off for a long time; and I helieve, if I would have
let him, he would have worshipped me and my gun ,
as for the gun itself, he would not so much as touch i
for several days, after; hut would speak to it, and tall
to it, as if it had answered him, when he was hy him-
self; which, as I afterwards leant of him, was to do
sire it not to kill hitn.
Well: after his astonishment was a little over of
this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the hird 1 hac
shot, which he did, hut staid some time; for the par
att, not heing quite dead, had fluttered a good wa)
off from the place where she fell; however, he founf
her, took her up, and hrought her to me; and, as I
had perceived hts ignorance ahout the gun he fere, I
took this advantage to charge the gun again, and-no
let him see me do it, that I might he ready for any
other mark that might present; hut nothing more
offered at that time; so I hrought home the kid ; and
the same evening 1 took the skin off, and cut it nut as
well as I could, and having a pot for that purpose, 1
hoiled or stewed some of the flesh, and made some
very good hsoth - after I had he^un to eat aruh* I
gave some to my man, who seemed very glad of it,
and liked it very well; hut that which was strangest
to him, was, to see me eat salt with it. He made a
sign to me that the salt was not good to eat; and put-
ting a little into his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate
it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth
with fresh water after it . On the other hand, I took
some meat in my mouth without salt, and I pretended
to spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had
done at the salt; hut it would nos do, he would never
are for salt with meat, or in his hroth; at least, not
a great while, and then hut a very Utile.
Having thus fed hiin with hoiled neat and hroth, I
was resolved to feast him the next day with roasting a
piece of the kid: this I did hy hanging it hefore the
fire in a string, as I had seen many people do in Eng-
land, setting two poles up, one on each side the fire,
and one cross on the top, and tying the string to the
cross stick, letting the meat tutn continually ; this Fri-
day admired very much ; hut when he came to taste
the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well
he liked it, that 1 could not hut understand him ; and
at last he told me he would never eat man's flesh any
more, which I was very glad to her.
The next day I set him to work to heating some
corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do; as
I ohserved >efore; and he understood how to do
it as well as I, especially after he had seen what the
meaning of it was, and that it was to make hread of;
for after that I let him see me make my hread, and
hake it too; and in a little time Friday was ahle to do
all the work for me, as well as I could do it myself.
I hegan now to consider, that, having two mouths
to feed instead of one, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of com,
than I used to do; so I marked out a larger piece ot
land, and hegan the fence in the same manner as he-
fore, in which Friday not only worked very willingly
and very hard, hut did it very cheerfuV.y; and I told
him what it was for, that it was for com to make
more hread, hecause he was now with me, and that 1
might have enough for him and myself too: he ap-
peared very sensihle of that part, and let me know,
that he thought 1 had much more lahour upon me on
his account, than 1 had for myself, and that he would
work the harder foi me, if 1 would tell him what to
do.
This was the plea :w.n test year of all the life I led in
this place. Friday tegan to talk pretty well, and un-
derstand the names of almost every thing I had oc-
casion to call for, and of every place I had to send him
to, and talk a great deal to me: so that, in short, I
hegan now to have some upe for my tongue again,
which indeed 1 had very litt'e occasion for hefore;
that is to sav, ahout speech. Besides the pleasure of
talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fel-
low himself; his simple unfeigned honesty appeared
to me more and more every day, and I hegan really
to love the creature; and on his side, I helieve, he
loved me more than it was possihle for him ever to
love any thing hefore.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering
mclination to his own country again; and having
learnt him English so well, that he could answer me
almost any questions, 1 asked him, whether the nation
that he helonged to never conquered in hattle? At
which he smiled, and said, " Yes, yes, we always
fight the hetter; that is, he meant, always get the
hetter in fight; and so we hegan the following dis-
course. "You always fight the hetter!" said I
u how canie you to he taken prisoner then, Friday?"
Friday. My nation heat much for all that.
Master. How heat? if your nation heat them,
how came you to he taken?
Friday. They more than my nation in the place
where me was ; they take one, two, three, and me:
my nation over heat them in the yonder place, where
me no was; there my nation take one two great thou-
aud
Master. Rut why did not your side recover you
\ m the hands of your enemies then?
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and
m.ike go in the canoe ; my nation have no canoe that
time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation
do with the men they take? Do they carry them
awav, and eat them as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans, too, eat all up
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; coma other
else place.
Master. Have you heen here with them?
Friday. Yes, I heen herer [points to the N. W.
tide of the island, which, it seems, was their side.]
By this I understood, thai my man Friday had
formerly heen among the savages, who used to com©
on shore on the farther part of the island, on the said
man eating occasions that he was now hrought for;
and some time after, when I took the courage to carry
him to that side, heing the same I formerly mention-
ed, he presently knew the place, and told me, he was
there once when they ate up twenty men, two women,
and one child: he could not tell twenty in English,
hut he numhered them hy laying so many stones in a
row, and pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this passage, hecause it introduces what
follows; that after 1 had had this discourse with him,
I asked him, how far it was from our island to the
shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost?
He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost;
hut that after a little way out to sea, there was a cur-
rent, and a wind always one way in the morning, the
other in the afternoon.
This I understand to he no more than the sets of the
tide, as going out, or coming in ; hut I afterwards un
drrstnod it was occasioned hy the great draught and
reflux of the mighty river Oroonoque; in the mouth
of wh:ch river, as I thought afterwards, our island lay;
and that this land, which I perceived to the W. and
N. W. was the great island Trinidad, on the north
point of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a
thousand questions ahout the country, the inhahitants,
the sea, the coast, and what nations were near: he
told me all he knew with the greatest openness ima-
ginahle. I asked him the names of the several nations
of his sort of people, hut could get no oilier nanus
than Carihs ; from whence I easily understood, that
these were the Carihees, which our maps place on the
part of America which reaches from the mouth of the
river Oroonoque to Guinea, and onwards to S,
Martha. He told me, that up a great way heyond the
moon, that was, heyond the setting of the moon,
which must he W. from their country, there dwelt
white-hearded men, like me, and pointed to my great
whiskers, which I mentioned hefore; and that they
had killed much mans, that was his word: hy which
I understood he meant the Spaniard, whose cruelties
in America had heen spread over the whole couo-
cries, and were rememhered hy all the nations from
lather to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might coma
from this island, and get among those white men; lie
told me. Yes, yes, I might in two canoe; I could
not understand what he meant hy two canoe; till at
last, with great difficulty, I found he meant, that U
must he in a large great hoat as hig as two canoes.
This part of Friday's discourse hegan to relish with
with me very well; and from this time I entertained
some hopes, that one time or other I might find ar.
opportunity to make my escape from this place, and
hat this poor savage might he a means to help me to
do it
.
During the long time that Friday had now heen
with mt, and that he hegan to speak to me,and under-
stand me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation o•
teligious knowledge in his mind ; particularly I askeo
1tVn one tune. Who made him? The poor creature
did not understand me at all hut thought I had asked
who was his father; hut I took it hy another hundle,
and asked him, Who made the sea, the ground l.e
walked on, and the hills and woods? He told me d
was one old Benamuckee that lived heyond all; he
could descrihe nothing of this great person, hut that
he was very old; much older, he sa:d, than the sea
or the land, than the moon or the stars. I asked him
then, if this old person had made all things, why dU
not all titings worship him? He looked very grave,
and with a perfect look of innocence said, All things
said O! to him. I asked him, if the people who die
in his country, went away any where? He*aid, Yes,
they all went to Benamuckee. Then I asked -him,
whether those they ate up, went thither too ? he said,
Yes.
From these things 1 hegan to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God. I told him, that tha
great Maker of all things lived there, pointing up to-
wards heaven ; that he governs the world hy the same
power and providence hy which he made it; that na
was omnipotent, could do every thing for us; giva
even- thing to us, take every thing from us; and thus,
hy degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great
attention, and received with pleasure the notion of
Jesus Christ heing sent to redeem us, anrl of the man-
ner of making our prayers to God, and his heing ahle
to hear us, even into heaven: he told me one day,
that if our God could hear us up heyond the sun, he
must needs he a greater God than their Benamuckee,
who lived hut a little way off, and yet could not hear,
till they went up to the great mountains, where he
dwelt, to speak to him. I asked him, if ever he went
thither to speak to him? He said, No, they never
went that were young men; none went thither hut
the old men ; whom he called their Oowookakee, that
is, as I made him explain it to me, their religious, o1
clergy; and that they went to say O! (so he called
saving prayers.) and then came hack, and told them
what Benamuckee said. By this I ohserved, that then•
is priestcraft even among the most hlinded ignorans
Pagans in the world; and the policy of making a se-
cret religion, in order to preserve the veneration of
the pespie to the clergy, is not only to he found in the
Roman, hut perhaps among all religions in the world,
even among the most hrutish and harharous savages.
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my may
Friday; and told him, that the pretence of their old
men going up to the mountains to say O! to their god
Benamuckee, was a cheat; and their hringing word
from thence what he said, was much more so; that
if they met with any answer, or spoke with any one
there,, it must he an evil spirit: and then I entered
into a long discourse with him ahout the devil, the
original of him, his rehellion against God, his enmity
to man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the
dark parts of the world to he worshipped instead of
God, and as God, and the many stratagems he made
use of, to delude mankind to their ruin: how he had
a secret access to our passions and to our affections,
to adapt his snares to our inclinations, as to cause
us even to he our own tempters, and to run upon our
own destruction hy our own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions
in his mind ahout the devil, as it was ahout the heing
of a God: nature assisted all my arguments to evi-
dence to him even the necessity of a great First Cause,
and over-ruling governing Power a secret directing
Providence, and of the equity and justice of paying
homage to Him that made us, and the like: hut the it
appeared nothing of all this in the notion of an evil
spirit, of his original, his heing, his nature, and, ahove
all of his inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to
do so too: and the poor creature ptitried me or.ee in
such a manner, hy a question merely natural and in
nocent, that I scarce knew what to say to nim. I
had heen talking to him a great deal of the power o
God, his omnipotence, his dreadful aversion to sin,
his heing a consuming fire to the workers of iniquity t
bow, as he had made us all, he could destroy us, and
•11 the world, in a moment; and ha listened with
great seriousness to me all the while.
Atter this, I had heen telling him how the devQ
was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used all
his malice and skill to defeat the good designs of Pro-
vidence, and to rnin the kingdom of Christ in tha
world, and the like: "Well," says Friday, " hut you
say God is so strong, so great, is he not much stronx
much might, as the devil —" Yes, yes," said I,
Friday, " God is stronger than the devil, God is ahove
the devil, and therefore we pray to God to tread him
jnder our feet, and enahle us to resist his temptations,
and quench his fiery darts."—" But" says he again,
"if God much strong, much might, as the devil, why
God not kill the devil, so make him nomore wicked?"
I was strangely surprised at his question : and after
all, though I was now an old man, yet I was hut a
young doctor and ill enough qualified for a casuist, or
a solver of difficulties: and at first I could not tell
what to say; so I pretended not to hear him, and
asked him what he said? hut he was too earnest for
an answer to forget his question; so that he repeated
it in the very same hroken words, as ahove. By this
time I had recovered myself a little, and I said," God
will at last punish him severely; he is reserved for
the judgment, and is to he cast into the hottomless pit,
to dwell with everlasting fire." This did not satisfy
Fridav; hut he returns upon me, repeating my words,
"Reserve &t last! me no understand : hut why not
kill the devil now, not kill great ago ?"—" You may
as well ask me," said I, "why God does not kill vou
and me, when we do wicked things here that oftend
him: we are preserved to repent and he pardoned."
He muses awhile at this; "Well, well," says he,
mighty affectionately, " that well: so you I, devil, all
wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all." Here
I was run down again hy him to the last degree, and
it was a testimony to me, how the mere notions of
nature, thoujh thev will guide reasonahle creatures to
t\\c knowledge ol a Gon\ and of a wttrsmp or homage
s
due to the supreme heing of Hod as the consequence
of our nature; yet nothing hut divine revelation ca»
form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of a redemp-
tion purchased for us; of a Mediator; of a new cove-
nant; and of an Intercessor at the footstool of God's
throne; I say, nothing hut a revelation from Heaven
can form these in the soul; and that therefore the
Gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, 1 mean
the word of God, and the Spirit of God, promised
fcr the guide and sanctifier of his people, and the ah
snlutely necessary instructors of the souls of men in
the saving knowledge of God, and the means of sal
vation.
I therefore diverted the present discourse hetween
me and my man, rising up hastily, as upun some sud-
den occasion of going out; then sending him for some-
thing a great way off, I seriously prayed to God thai
he would enahle me to instruct savingly this poot
tavage, assisting, hy his Spirit, the heart of 'he poor
ignorant creature to receive the light of the knowlede
of God in Christ, reconciling him to himself, and
would guide me to speak so to him from the word of
God, as his conscience might he convinced, his eyes
opened, and his soul saverT When he came again to
me, I entered into a long discourse with him upon
the suhject of the redemption of man hy the Saviour
of the world, and of the doctrine of the Gospel
preached from Heaven, vi•. of the repentance towards
God, and taith of our hlessed I.ord Jesus: 1 then ex-
plained to him, as well as I could, why our hlessed
Redeemer took not on him the nature of angels, hut
the seed of Ahraham, and how, for that reason, the
fallen angels had no share in the redemption ; that he
came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel,
and the like.
I had, God knows, more sinrerity than knowledge,
In all the methods I took for this poor creature's in-
struction and must acknowledge, what I helieve all
that act upon the same principle will find, that in lay-
ing things open to aim, I reallv 'nformed and instruct
•d myself in many things that either I did not Know'
ot had not fully considered hefore; hut which occur-
red naturally to my m:nd, upon ray searching into
tlwm for the information of this poor savage; and I
had more affection in my enquiry after th:ngs upon
this occosion, than ever 1 felt hefore ; so that whether
this poor wild wretch was the hetter for me or no,
i had great reason to he thankful that ever he co me to
me : my grief sat lighter upon me, my hahitation grew
comfortahle to me heyond measure; and when 7 re-
flected, that in this solitary life, which I had heen
con&ned to, I had not only heen moved myself to look
up to Heaven, and to seek to the Hand that hrought
me thither, hut was now to he made an instrument,
under Providence, to save the life, and for aught I
knew the soul, of a poor savage, and hring him to the
true knowledge of religion, and of the Christian doc-
trine, that he might know Christ Jesus, to know whom
is life eternal: I say, when I reflected upon all these
things, a secret joy ran through every part of rny
soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was hrought
to this place, which I had often thought the most
dreadful of all afflictions that could possihly have he-
fallen me.
1nthisthankful frame I continued all the remainder
of my time; and the conversation which employed
the hours hetween Friday and me was such as made,
the three years which we lived here together perfectly
and completely happy, if any such thing as complete
happiness can he found in a suhlunary state. The
savage was now a good Christian, a much hetter than
1; though I have reason to hope, and hless God foi
it, that we were equally penitent, and comforted re-
ttored penitents: we harl here the Word of God to
read, and no farther off from his spirit to instruct than
if we had heen in England.
I always applied myself to reading the Scripture,
and to let him Know as well as I could the meaning
•f what I read ; and he again, hy his serious inquiries
and questions, made me, as I said hefore, a much het-
ter scholar in the Scripture knowledge, than I should
ever have heen hy my own private reading. Anothei
thing I cannot refrain from ohserving here, also from
experience, in this retired part of my life; viz. how
infinite and inexpressihle a hlessing it is, that the
knowledge of Gon, an I of the doctrine of salvation hy
Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the Word ol
God, so easilv to he rece:ved and understood, that at
the hare reading the Scripture made me capahle ol
understanding enough of my duty to carry me directly
on to the great work of sincere repentance for my
sins, and laying hold of a Saviour for life and salva-
tion, to a stated reformation in practice,and ohedience
'o all God's commands, and this without any teachei
or instructor (I mean, human :) so the plain instrue
tion sufficiently served to the enlightening this savag
creature, and hringing him to he such a Christian, a#
I have known few equal to him in my life.
As to the disputes, wrauglings, strife, and con ten
tion, which has happened in the world ahout religion
whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes of church
government, they were all perfectly useless to us, a/
for aught I can yet see, they have heen to all the rest
in the world: we had the sure guide to heaven, viz
the Word of God ; and we had, hlessed he God! con*
fortahle views of the Spirit of God, teaching and in.
structing us hy his Word, leading us into all truth, am*
making us hoth willing and ohedient to the instruction
of his Word; and I cannot see the least use that the
greatest knowledge of the disputed points in religion,
which have made such confusion in the world, would
have heen to us, if we could have ohtained it . But
f must go on with the historical part of things, and
take every part in its order.
After Friday and I hecame more intimately ac-
quainted and that he could understand almost all I
said to him, and sneak fluently, though in hroken Eng-
lish, to me, I acquainted him with my own story. O•
at least so much of it as relates to my coming inte
ejfc
227
tfie place, haw I had lived there, and how lung I let
him into the mystery (for such it was to him) ot gun-
powder and hullets, and taught him how to shoot; I
gave him a ktufe, which he was wonderfully delighted
with : and I made him a helt with a frog hanging to
it, such as in England we wear hangers in ; and in the
frog, instead of a hanger, I gave h'un a hatchet, which
was not only as good a weapon in some cases, hut
much more useful upon many occasions.
1 descrihed to him the countries of Europe, and
particularly England, which I came from; how we
lived, how we worshipped God, how we hehaved to
one another, and how we traded in ships to all the
ports of the world. I gave him an account of the
wreck which I had heen on hoard of, and shewed hun
as near as 1 could, the place where she lay , hut she
was all heaten in pieces, long hefore, and quite gone.
I shewed him the ruins of our hoat, which we lost
when we escaped, and which I could not stir with
my whole strength then, hut was now fallen almost all
to pieces. Upon seeing this hoat, Friday stood mus-
tng a great while, and said nothing: I asked him what
rt was he studied upon? At last, says he, " Me see
Ktch hoat like come to place at my nation."
I did not understand him a good while; hut at last,
when I had examined further into it, 1 understood
hy him, that a hoat, such as that had heen, came on
shore upon the country where he lived ; that is, as he
explained it, was driven thither hy stress of weather.
I presently imagined, that some European ship must
have heen cast away upon their coast, and the hoat
might get loose, and drive ashore; hut was so dull,
ttat I never once thought of men making escape from
a wreck thither, much less whence they might come,
so I only enquired after a description of the hoat.
Friday descrihed the hoat to me well enough; hut
hrought me hetter to understand him, when he added,
with some warmth, "We save the white mans from
drown." Then 1 presently asked him, if there were
any white mans, as he called them in the tx -at ?" Y .ss,"
he said,r' the hoat full of white mans." I asked him,
how many? he told upon his finger! seventeen. I
asked him then, what hecame of them? he told m%
"They live, they dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts into my head again; for I
presently imagined, that these might he the men h©w
longing to the ship that was cast away in sight of my
island, as I now call it; and who, after the ship waa
struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitahly loss
had saved themselves in their hoat, and were landed
upon that wild shore among the savages.
Upon this I enquired of him more critically, what
was hecome of them ? He assured me they lived still
there, that they had heen there ahout four years that
the savages let them alone, and gave them victuals 0
live. I asked him, how it came to pass they did not
kill them, and eat them? He said, "No, they main
hrother with them :" that is, as I understood him, a
truce : and then he added, "They eat no mans hut
when make the war fightthat is to say, they never
eat any men, hut such as come to fight with them, and
are taken in hattle.
It was after this, some considerahle time, that heing
on the top of the hill, at the east side of the island,
from whence, as I have said, I had in a clear day dis-
covered the main or continent of America; Friday,
the weather heing very serene, looks very earnestly
towards the main land, and in a kind of surprise falta
a-jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I
was at some distance from him: I asked him whftt
was the matter ?" O joy!" says he, " O glad! them
•ee my country, there my nation!"
I ohserved an extraordinary sense of pleasure ap
peared in his face, and his eyes sparkled,and hiscoun
tenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he had a
mind to he in his own country again ; and this oh
serration of mine put a great many thoughts into me,
which made me at first not so easy ahout my new
man Friday as I was hefore; and I made no douhs,
hut that if Friday could get hack to his own oatioa)

•gain, he would not only forget all his religion, hut sll
his ohligations to me; and would he forward enough
to give his countrymen an account of me, and come
hack, perhaps, With an hundred or two of them, and
make a feast upon me, at which he might he as merry
ts lie used to he with those of his enemies, when they
s/ere taken in war.
But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
for which I was very sorry afterwards: however, as
Kiy jealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I
was a little more circumspect, and not so familiar and
kind to him as hefore; in which I was certainly ia
the wrong too, the honest grateful creature having no
thought ahout it, hut what consisted of the hest prin-
ciples, hoth as a religious Christian and as a grateful
friend, as appeared afterwards to my full satisfaction.
Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may he sure
I was every day pumping him, to see if he would Jia
nover any of the new thoughts which I suspected were
'fl him ; hut 1 found every thing he said was so honest
fid so innocent, that 1 could mid nothing to nourish
tny suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he
nid le me at last entirely his own again; nor did he
In Me least perceive that I was uneasy; and there
fore 1 -oulJ not suspect him of deceit
.
Orn 'lay, walking up the same hill, hut the weather ,
heing nazy at sea, so that we could not see the con-
tinent, 1 -ailed to him, and said, " Friday, do not you
wish yu-rself in your own country, your own na-
tion ?—" Ves," he said, "I he much O glad to he
at my own nation."—" What would you do there?"
said 1: u would you turn wild again, eat men's flesh
again, and he a savage as you were hefore?" He look-
ed full of concern, and shaking his head, said, "No
no, Friday tell them to live good; tell them to pray
God ; tell them u- eat corn-hread, cattle-flesh, milk, no
eat man again.- 'Why, then,"said I to him, "they
will kill you." He looked grave at that, and then
said, 'No, they no kill me, they willing love learn:"
he meant t:y this, L-ej would he willing to learn. He
added, they learnt much of the hearded mans that
came in the hoat . Then I asked him, if he would go
hack to them? He smiled at that, and told me he
could not swim so far. I told him I would make a
canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I would
go with him. "I go!" said I, "why, they will eat
me if I come there.'"—u No, no,n says he, " me make
them no eat you, me make they much love you :" he
meant he would tell them how I had killed his ene-
mies and saved his life, and so he would make them
love me. Then he told me, as well as he could, how
kind they were to seventeen white men, or hearded
men, as he called them, who came on shore in dis-
tress.
From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture
over, and see if I could possihly join with these heard-
ad men, who, I made no douht, were Spaniards or
Portuguese; not douhting hut, if I could, we migh
find some method to escape from thence, heing upon
the continent, and a good company together, hette
than I could from an island forty miles off the shore,
and alone without help. So, after some days, I took
Friday to work again, hy way of discourse ; and told
him, I would give him a hoat to go hack to his own
nation; and accordingly I carried him to my frieate,
which lay on the other side of the island; and hav-
ing cleared it of water (for I always kept it sunk in
the water), I hrought it out, shewed it him, and we
hoth went into it.
I found he was a most dexterous fellow at manag-
yng it, would make it go almost as swift and fast again
as I could; so when he was in, I said to him, " Well,
now, Friday, shall we go to your nation?" He looked
very dull at my saying so, which, it seems, was he-
cause he thought the hoat too small togo so far. 1
told him then I had a higger; so the next day I went
to the place where the first hoat lay which I had made,
hut which I could not get into the water; he sait*
that was hig enough; hut then, as I had taken no care
af it, and tt had lain two or three and twenty yean
there, tha sun had split and dried it, that it was In a
manner rotten. Friday told me, such a hoat would
do very well, and would carry " much enough Tittle,
drink, hread;" that was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was hy this time so fixed upon
my design of going over with him to the continent,
that I told him we would go and make one as hig as
that, and he should go home in it . He answered not
one word, hut looked very grave and sad. I asked
him, what was the matter with him? He asked me
again thus, "Why youancry mad with Friday? what
me done ?" I asked him, what ho meant I told him
I was not angry with him at all: "No angry! no
angry!" says he, repeating the words several times,
w why send Friday home away to my nation ?"—.
* why," said I, "Friday, did you not say you wish-
ed you were there ?"—" Yes, yes," says he, " wish he
hoth there; no wish Friday there, no master there."
In a word, he would not think of going there with-
out me. "I go there, Friday!" said I; "what should
I do there?" He turned very quick upon me at this;
•' You do great deal much good," says he; "you
Jeach wild mans he good, soher, tame mans; you tell
them know God, pray God, and live new life."—
"Alas, Friday," said I, "thou knowest not what
thou say est; I am hut an ignorant man myself."—.
•* Yes, yes," says he, "you teechee me good, you
teechee them good."—" No, no, Friday," said I,
"you shall go without me ; leave me here to live hy
myself, as I did hefore." He looked confused again
at that word, and running to one of the hatchets which
he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives il
nw. "What must I do with this?" said I to him
"You take kill Friday," says he. "What must I
kill you for?" said I again. He returns very quick,
"What you send Friday away for? Take kill Friday,
no send Friday away." This he spoke so earnestly,
that 1 saw tears stand in his eyes. In a word, I so
plainly discovered the utmost affection in him tome,
and a firm resolution in him, that I told him then, and
16
often after, that I would never send him away fmm
me if he was willing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as 1 found hy all his discourse a
settled affection to me, and that nothing should part
him from me, so I found all the foundation of his de
sire to go to his own country was laid in his ardent
affection to the people, and his hopes of my doing
them good; a thmg, which I had no notion of my
self, so I had not the least thought, or intention, or
desire of undertaking it. But still I found a strong
inclination to my attempting an escape, as ahove,
rounded on the supposition gathered from the formei
discourse; viz. that there were seventeen hearded
men there; and therefore, without any delay, 1 went
to work with Friday, to find out a great tree proper
to fell, and make a large periagua or canoe, to under-
take the voyage: there were trees enough in tha
island to have huilt a little fleet, not of periaguasand
canoes only, hut even of good large vessels: hut the
main thing I looked at, was to get one so near the
water, that we might launch it when it was made, to
avoid the mistake committed at first.
At last Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found h•
knew much hetter than I what kind of wood was
fittest for it; nor can I tell to this day what wood to
call the tree we cut down, except that is was very
like the tree we call fustick, or hetween that and the
Nicaragua wood, for it was much uf the same colour
and smell. Friday was for hurning the hollow or ca-
vity of this tree out, to make it into a hoat: hut I
shewed him how rather to cut it with tools, which
after 1 shewed him how to use, he did very handily;
and in ahout a month's hard lahour we finished it,
and made it very hadsome, especially, when, with
our axes, which I shewed him how to handle, we
cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of a
hoat; after this, however, it rost us neara fortnight's
time to get her along, as it were inch hy inch, ujion
great rollers, into the water: hut when she was in
she would have carred twenty men with great ease
Wheu she was in the water, anrl though she tvaj
so hig, it amazed me to see with what dexter:ty and
how swift my man Friday could manage her, turn
her, and paddle her along; so I asked him if 1m
would, and if we might venture over in her? " Yes,"
he said, "he venture over in her very well, though
great hlow wind." However, 1 had a farther design
that he knew nothing of, and that was, to make a
mass and sail, and to tit her with an anchor and cahle'
As to a mast, that was easy enough to get; so 1 pitch-
ed upon a straight young cedar tree, which I found
near the place, and which there was a great plenty of
in tho island; and 1 set Friday to work to cut it
down, and gave him directions how to shape and
order it: hut as to the sail, that was my particular
care; I knew 1 had old sails, or rather pieces of old
sails enough; hut as I had them now twenty-six
years hy me, and had not heen very careful to pre-
serve them, not imagining that 1 should ever have this
Ittud of use for them, 1 did not doubt hut they were
all rotten: and indeed most of them were so; how-
ever I found two pieces which appeared pretty good,
and with these I went to work, and with a great deal
of pains , and awkward tedious stitching (you may he
sure) for want of needles, 1 at length made a three-
eornered ugly thing, like what we call in England a
shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a hoom at hottom,
and a 1ittle short sprit at the top, such as usually our
ships' long-hoats sail with, and such as I hest knew
how to manage; hecause it was such a one as I used
m the hoat in which I made my escape from Barha-
ry, as related in the first part of my story.
I was near two months performing this last work,
vtz. rigging and fitting my mast and saits; fori finish-
ed them very complete, making a small stay, and a
sail or foresail to it, to assist, if we should turn to
windward; and, which was more than all, I fixed a
rudder to the stem of her, to steer with; and though
I was hut a hungling shipwright, yet as I knew the
usefulness, and even necessity of such a thing, 1 ap>
*34 LiFE AND ADVENTURES
brought it to pass, though, considering the many
dull contrivances 1 had for it that failed, I think it
cost me almost as much lahour as making the hoat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what helonged to the navigation of riy
hoat; for though he knew very well how to paddle
.he canoe, he knew nothing what helonged to a sail
and a rudder, and was the more amazed when he saw
me work the hoat to and again in the sea hy tha
rudder, and how the sail gihed, and filled this way of
that way, as the course we sailed changed; f say,
when he saw this, he stood like one astonished and
amazed : however, with a little use, I made all these
things familiar to him, and he hecame an expert sai-
lor, except that as to the compass I could make him
understand very little of that: on the other hand, at
there was very little cloudy weather, and seldom of
never any fogs in those parts, there was the less oc-
casion for a compass, seeing the stars were always
to he seen hy night, and the shore hy day, except in
the rainy seasons; and then nohody cared to stir
ahroad, either hy land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentioth year
of my captivity in this place; though the three last
years that I had this creature with me, ought rathe*
to he left out of the account, my hahitation heing quits
of another kmd than in all the rest of my time. I
kept the anniversary of my landing here with the
same thankfulness to God for his mercies as at first:
and if I had such cause of acknowledgement at first, i
had much more so now, having such additional tes-
timonies of the care of Providence over me, and the
great hopes I had of heing effectually and speedily
delivered; for I had an mvincihle impression upon
my thoughtD, that my deliverance was at hand, and
that I should not he another year in this place. How-
ever, I wont on with my hushandry, digging, plant-
ing, and fencing, as usual; I gathered and cured my
(rapes, and did every necessary thing, as hefore.
rhe rainy season was in the mean time upon me,
when 1 kept more within doors than at other times;
so had I stowed our new vessel as secure as we could,
tuinging her up into the creek, where, as 1 said in
the heginning, 1 landed my rafts from the ship; and
haling her up to the shore, at high-water mark, I made
my man Friday dig a little dock, just hig enough for
her to float in; and then, when the ude was out,
0F ROBINSON CRUSOE. 234
the water out; and so she lay dry, as to the tide,
from the sea; and to keep the rain off, we laid a great
many houghs of trees so thick, that she was as well
thatched as a house; and thus we waited for the
months of Novemher and Decemher, in which I de-
signed to make my adventure.
When the settled season hegan to come in, as the
thought of my design returned with the fair weather,
I was preparing daily for the voyage; and the first
thing 1 did was to lay up a certain quantity of provi-
sion, heing the store for the voyage; and intended,
in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock; and
launch out our hoat. I was husy one morning upon
something of this kind, when I called to Friday, and
hid him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could find
u turtle or tortoise, a thing which we generally got
once a week, for the sake of the eggs, as well as the
flesh. Friday had not heen long gone, when he came
running hack, and flew over my outward wall, or
fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the steps
he set his feet on; and hefore I had time to stmak to
him, he cried out to me, "O master! Omaster! O
soirow! 0 had !"—" What's the matter, Friday?"
said I. "O yonder there," says he, "one, two,
three canoe! one, two three !" By this way of sneak-
ing I concluded ther were six; hut on inqmry I
found there were hut three. "Well, Friday," said I,
u do not he frighted ;" so I heartened him up as well
as I could. However, I saw the poor fellow most
terrihly scared ; for nothing ran in his head, hut that
they were come to look lor him, and would cut him
it
m pieces, and eat him ; the poor fellow tremhled so
Chat 1 scarce knew what to do with him ; I comforted
him as well as I could, and told him 1 was in as
much danger as he, and that they would eat me ai
well as him. "But," said I, "Friday, we must re-
solve to fight them t can you fight, Friday f"—" Ma
shoot," s&ys he, "hut there come many great num-
her."—" No matter for that," said 1 again: "our
guns will fright them that we do not kin." So I asked
nun, whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would
defend me, and stand hy me, and do iust I hade
him? He said, " Me die, when you hid die, master
so I went and fetched a good dram of rum, and gave
him; for I had heen so good a hushand of my rum,
that I had a great deal left. When he had drank it,
1 made him take the two fowling-pieces which wa
always carried, and load them with large swan-shot
as hig as small pistol-hullets; then I took four muskets,
and loaded them with two slugs and five small hul-
lets each; and my two pistols 1 loaded with a hrace
of hullets each: I hung my great sword, as usual,
naked hy my side, and gave Friday his hatchet
.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my per-
spective-glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to
see what I could discover; and I found quickly, hy
my glass, that there were one-and-twenty savages,
three prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole,
husiness seemed to he the trinmphant hanquet upon
there three l.uman hodies; a harharous feast indeed,
hut nothing more than as 1 had ohserved was usual
with them.
I ohserved also, that they were landed, not where
they had done when Friday made his escape, hut
n arer to my creek, where the shore was low, and
where a thick wood came close almost down to the
sea: this, with the ahhorrence of the inhuman errand
these wretches came ahout, so filled me with indigua
tion, that I carne down again to Friday, and told him,
1 was resolved to go down to them, and kill them
sU; and asked him if he would stand hy me. He
was oow gotten over his fright, and his spirits heing a
ittle raised with the dram I had given him, he wm
very cheerful; and told me, as hefore he would die
when I did die.
In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms
which I had charged, as hefore hetween us: 1 gave
Friday one pistol to ssick in his girdle, and three guns
dpon his shoulder; and 1 took one pistol, and the
other three, myself; and in this posture we marched
out . I took a small hottle of rum in my pocket, and
E:ve Friday a large hag with more powder and hui-
t; and as to orders, I charged him to keep close tie-
hind me, and not to stir, shoot, or do any thing till 1
hid him; and in the mean time, not to speak a word.
In this posture I fetched a compass to my right hand
of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get
into the wood; so that I might come within shot of
them hefore I could he discovereu, which I had seen
hy mv glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former thought• 5
returning, I hegan.to ahate my resolution; I do not i
mean, that I entertained any fear of their numher; for 3
as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I ' i
was superior to them; nay, though f had heen alonet
hut it occurred to rny thoughts, what call, what occa- 5
tion, much less what necessity, I was in to go and dip
my hands in hlood, to attack people who had neither 5
done or intended me any wrong, who, as to me, wrj» 5
innocent, and whose harharous customs were their 5
own disaster, heing in them a token indeed of God's 5
having left them, with the other nations of that part
of the world to such stupidity and to such inhuman
courses; hut did not call me to take upon me to he a
judge of their actions, much less an executioner of his
iustice; that whenever he thought fit, he would take
the cause into his own hands, and hy national ven-
geance punish them for national crimes; hut that in
the mean time, it was none of my husiness; that it waa
true, Friday might justify it, hecause he was a de-
1 enemy, and tn a state of war wLh those very

particular people, and it was lawful for him to attack
them, hut! could not say the same with respect to
me. These things were so warmly pressed upon my
thoughts all the way as I went, that I resolved t would
only go place myself near them, that I might ohserve
their harharous feast, and that 1 would act then aa
God should direct; hut that unless something offered
that was more a call to me than yet I knew of, I
would not meddle with them.
With this resolution 1 entered the wood, and with
all possihle wariness and silence (Friday following
close at my heels) I marched till I came to the skirt
of the wood, on the side which was next to them i
only that one corner of the wood lay hetween me and
them : here I called softly to Friday, and shewing
him a great tree, which was just at the corner of the
wood, I hade him go to the tree, and hring me word
if he could see there plainly what they were doing t
lie did so, and came immediately hack to me, and toid
me they might plainly he viewed there; that they
were all ahout the fire, eating the flesh of one of theii
prisoners; and that another lay hound upon the sand,
a little from them, whom he said they would kill
next, and which fired the very soul within me. He
told me, it was not one of their nation, hut one of the
hearded men whom he had told me of, who came to
their country in the hoat. I was filled with horror
at the very naming the white hearded man, and, going
to the tree, I saw plainly, hy my glass, a white man,
who lay upon the heach of the sea, with his hand«
ami his feet tied with flags, or things like rushes; and
that he was an European, and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket heyond
it, a!tout fifty yards nearer to them than the plac
where I was, which, hy going a little way ahout, I
saw I might come at undiscovered, and that then I
should he within half-shot of them , so I withheld my
passion, though I was indeed enraged to the highest
decree: and going hack ahout twenty paces, I got he-
bmd some hushes, which held sll the way till 1 cam
to the other tree, and then I came to a little rising
§round, which gave me a full view of them, at trte
i stance of ahout eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of
the dreadful wretches sat upon the ground all close
huddled together, and had just sent the other two to
hutcher the poor Christian, and hring him, perhaps
limh hy limh, to their fire; and they were stooped
down to untie the hands at his feet. I turned to Fp-
day; "Now, Friday," said I, "do as I hid thee.s
Friday said, he would. "Then, Friday," said I, " tk,
exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing." So I
set down one of the muskets and the fowling-piece
upon the ground, and Friday did the like hy his ; and
with the other musket I took my aim at the savages,
hidding him do the like. Then asking him if he was
ready, he said, " Yes."—.' Then fire at them," said
I ; and the same moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much hetter than I, that
on the side that he shot, he killed two of them, and
wounded three more; and on my side, I killed one,
and wounded two. They were, you may he sure, in
a dreadful consternation ; and all of them, who were
not hurt, jumped up upon their feet immediately, hut
did not know whicn way to run, or which way to
look; for they knew not from whenee their destruc-
tion came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that,
as I had hid him, he might ohserve what I did ; so
as soon as the first shot was made, I threw down the
piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and Friday did
the like; he sees me cock, and present; he did the
same again. "Are you ready, Friday?" said I.
"Yes," says he. "Let fly then," said I, "in the
name of God; and with that I fired again among
the amazed wretches, and so did Friday; and as our
pieces were now loaden with what I call swan shot,
or small pistol-hullets, we found only iwo drop; hut
so many were wounded, thai they ran ahout veil led
tnd screaming like mad creatures, all hloody, and
LIFE AND ADVENT :RK9
miserahly woundeH most of them ; whereof three more
"Now, Friday," said I, laying down the discharg-
ed pieces, and taking up the musket, which was yet
loaden, " follow me," said I; which he did, with a
deal of course; upon which I rushed outof the wood•
and shewed myself, and Friday close at my foot; at
soon as 1 perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud
as I could, and hade Friday do so too; and running
as fast as I could, which hy the way was not very
fast, heing loaded with arms as I was, I made directly
towards the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying
npon the heach, or shore, hetween the place where
they sat and the sea; the .two hutchers who were just
going to work with him, had left him, at the surprise
of our first fire, and (led in a terrihle fright to the
sea-side, and had jumped into a canoe, and three mora
of the rest made the same way: I turned to Friday,
and hade him step forwards, and fire at them; he un
derstood me immediately, and running ahout fortv
yards to he near them, he shot at them,and I thought
he had killed them all; for I saw them all fall on an
heap into the hoat; though I saw two of them, up
agam quicklv: however, he killed two of them, ana
wounded the third, so that he lay down in the hottom
of the hoat as if he had heen dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out
my knife, and cut the flags that hound the poor vic-
tim; and loosing his hands and feet I lifted him up,
and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what he i4*W
He answered in Latin, Christianus; hut was so
weak and faint that he could scarce stand, or speak;
1 took my hottle out of my pocket, and gave it him,
making signs that he should drink, which he did; and
I gave him a piece of hread, which he ate ; then I
asked him, what countryman he was? and he said,
Etpagnole; and, heing a little recovered, let me
know, hy all the signs he could possihly make, how
muenhewasin mr deht for his deliverance. "Seignor,"

Mid I, with as much Spanish as I could make up,
^ we will talk afterwards, hut we must fight now; if
you have any strength left, take this pistol and sword,
and lay ahout you." He took them very thankfully,
and no sooner had he the nrms in his hands, hut as if
they had put new vigour into him, lte flew upon his
inur erers like a fury, and had cut two of them in
pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole was
a surprise to them, so the noor creatures were so much
frighted with the noise of our pieces, that they fell
down for mere amazement and fear, and had no more
power to attempt their own escape, than their flf-h
had to resist our shot; and that was the case of those
five that Friday shot in the hoat; for as three of them
fell with the hurt they received, so the other two fell
with the fright.
I kept my piece in my hand still, without firing,
heing willing to keep my charge ready, hecause I had
given the Spaniard my postol and sword ; so I called
to Friday, and hade him run up to the tree from
whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay
there that had heen discharged, which he did with
great swiftness; and then giving him my musket, I
sat down myself to load au the resi again, and hade
them come to me when they wanted. While 1 was
loading the pieces, there happened a fierce engage-
ment hetween the Spaniard and one of the savages,
who made at him with one of their great wooden
swords, the same weapon that was to have killed him
hefore, if I had not prevented it; the Spaniard, who
was as hold and as hrave as could he imagined,
though weak, had fought this Indian a good while,
and had cut him two great wounds on his head: h:t
the savage, heing a stout lusty fello-v, closing in wis
him, had thrown him down, (heing faint) and waa,
wringing my sword out of his hand, when the Span-
lard, though undermost, wisely quitting his sword,
|rP... t:.„ pistol from his girdle, shot the sava~e
VOL. L
through the hody, and killed him upon the spot, hefore
I, who was running to help could come near him.
Friday, heing now left at his liherty, pursued ihe
flying wretches with no weapon in his hand hut his
hatchet; and with that he dispatched those three, who,
as I said hefore, were wounded at first, and fallen,
and all the rest he could come up with: and the
"'paniard coming to me for a gun, I gave him one , f
he fowling-pi»ces, with which he pursued two of tie
ravages, and wounded them hoth; hm as he was tut
ahle to run, they hoth got from him imo the wood,
where Friday pursued them, and killed oncofthtm;
hut the other was too nimhle for him; and though hi'
was wounded, yet he plunged into the sea, and swam
with all his might off to those who were left in the
canoe; which three in the canoe, with one wounded,
who we know not whether he died or no, were ali
that escaped our hands of one-and-twenty. The ac
count of the rest is as follows:
3 Killed at our shot from the tree.
2 Killed at the next shot.
2 Killed hy Friday in the hoat.
2 Killed hy ditto, of those at first wounded.
1 Killed hy ditto, in the wood.
S Killed hy the Spaniard.
4 Killed, heing found dropt here and there of then
wounds, or killed hy Friday in his chase ol
them.
4 Escaped in the hoat, whereof one wounded, il
not dead.
21 In all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get
out of gun shot; and though Friday made kwo ot
three shot at them, I did not find that he hit aoy n(
them : Friday would fain have had me take one ol
their canoes, and pursu* them; and mdeed I was
/ery anxious ahout their escape, lest, carrying the
news home to their people, they should come hack,
perhaps, with two or three hundred of their canoes
and devour us by mere multitudes; so f consented to
pursue them hy sea; and running to one of their
canoes, I jumped in, and hade Friday follow me;
hut when f was in the canoe, I was surprised to find
another poor creature lie there alive, hound hand ami
foot, as the Spaniard v\ as, for the slaughter, and alums
dead with fear, not knowing what the matter was: fo
he had not heen ahle to look up over the side of th
hoat, he was tied so hard, neck and heels, and had
heen tied so long, that he had really Utile life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes,
which they had hound him with, and would have
helped him up; hut he could not stand, or spenk, hut
erjaned most piteously, helieving, it seems still, that
he was only unhound in order to he killed,
When Friday came to him, I hade him speak to
him, and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out
,ny lioitle, made him give the poor wretch a drum,
which with the news of his heing delivered, revived
him, and he sat up in the hoat; hut when Friday
came to hear him speak, and looked in his face, it
would have moved any one to tears, to have seen how
Friday kissed him, emhraced him, hugged him, cried,
laughed, hallooed, jumped ahout, danced, sung, then
cried again, wrung his hands, heat his own face and
head, and then sung and jumped ahout again like a |
distracted creature. It was a good while hefore I
could make him speak to me, or tell me what was the
matter; hut when he came a little to himself, he toM
me that it was his father-
It was not easy for me to express how it movej
me, to see what ecstasy and filial affection had work
ed in this poor savage, at the sight of his father, an
of his heing delivered from death ; nor indeed can 1
descrihe half the extravagances of his affection after
this; for he went into the hoat and out of the hoat a
great many times : when he went in to him, he would
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 245
*•4 LIFE AND a.DVHTT„uS*
head close to his hosom, half an hour together, to
nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles, which
wont mimkArt — I .. '.t ....
*•4 LIFE AND a.DVHTT„uS*
numhed and stiff with the hinding, an J chafed
•id ruhhed them with his hands; and I, perceiving
what the case was, gave him some rum out of my
hottle to ruh them with, which did them a great deal
of good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the cano
with the other savages, who were now gotten almos
out of sight; and it was happy for us that we di
not; for it hlew so hard within two hours after, and
hefore ihey could he gotten a quarter of their way,
and continued hlowing so hard all night, and thai
from the north-west, which was against them, that I
could not suppose their hoat could live, or that ihej
ever reached to their own coast.
But to return to Friday; he was so husy ahout his
father, that I could not find in my heart to take him
off for some time: hut after I thought he could leave
nim a little, I called him to me. and he came jump-
ing and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme.
Then I asked him, if he had given his father any
hread? He shook his head, and said, "None: ugly
dog eat all up self," So I gave him a cake of hread
out of a little pouch I carried on purpose: I also
gave him a dram for himself, hut he would not taste
it, hut carried it to his father; I had in my pocket
also two or three hunches of my rasins, so I gave
him a handful of them fur his father He had no
sooner given his father these rasins, hul I saw him
come out of the hoat, and run away a. if he had heen
hewitched. He ran at such a rate (for he was the
swiftest fellow of his feet that ever I saw)—I say, ho
ran at such a rate that he was out of sight, as it were
in an instant; and though I called and hallooed too
after him, it was all one; away he went, and in a
quarter of an hour I saw him come hack again, though
not so fast as he went; and as he came nearer, I
found his pace slacker, hecause he had something
in his hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had heen quite
home for an earthen jug, or pot, to hring his fhihet
some fresh water; and that he had got two more cakes
or loaves of hread. The hread he gave me, hut the
water he carried to his father: however, as I was
very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it: this water
revived his father more than all the rum or spirits I
had given him ; for he was just fainting with thirst.
When his father had drank, I called him, to know
if there was any water left? he said, "Ves;"and I
hade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as
much want of it as his father; and I sent one of the
cakes, that Friday hrought, to the Spaniard too, who
was indeed very weak, and wns reposing himself
upon a green place, under the shade of a tree, and
whose limhs were also very stiff, and very much
swelled with the rude handage he had heen tied with:
when I saw that, upon Friday's coming to him with
the water, he sat up and drank, and took the hread,
and hegan to eat, I went to him, and gave hint a
handful of raisins: he looked up in my face with all
the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could
appear in any countenance; hut was so weak, not-
withstanding he had so exerted himself in the fight,
that he could not stand upon his feet; he tried to do
it two or three times, hut was reallv not ahle, his
ankles were so swelled and so painful to him; so I
hade, him sit still, and caused Friday to ruh his ankles,
and hathe them with rum, as he had done his fathers.
I ohserved the poor affectionate creature every two
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here,
turned his head ahout, to see if his father was in the
same place and posture as he left him sitting; and at
last he found he was not to he seen; at which ha
started up, and, without speaking a word, flew with
that swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive
his feet to touch the ground as he went: hut when he
came, he only found he had laid himself down to case
his limhs: so Friday came hack to me presently, and
I then spoke to the Spaniards to let Friday help him
op, if he could, and lead him to the hoat, and then
he should carry him to our dwelling, where I would
:ake care of him: hut Friday, a lusty young fellow,
took the Spaniard quite up upon his hack, andcarried
1rim away to the hoat, and set him down softly upon
the side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the in-
side of it, and then lifted them quite in, and set him
close to his father, and presently stepping out again
aunched the hoat off, and paddled it along the short
aster than 1 could walk, though the wind hlew pretty
hard too; so he hrought them hoth safe into our
creek, and leaving them in the hoat, runs away to
fetch the other canoe. As he passed me, I spoke to
him, and asked him whither he went? He told me,
"Go fetch more hoatso away he went, like the
wind : for sure never man or horse ran like him, and
he had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as
I got to it hy laud; so he wafted me over, and then
went to help our new guests out of the hoat, which he
did; hut they were neither of them ahle to walk; so
Uiat poor Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thoughts, and
calling to Friday to hid them sit down on the hank
while he came to me, 1 soon made a kind of hand
harrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them
up hoth together upon it hetween us; hut when we
got them to the outside of our wall or fortification,
we were at a worse loss than hefore; for it was im-
possihle to get them over; and I was resolved not to
break it down: so I set to work again; and Friday
and I, in ahout two hours time, made a very handsome
tent, covered with old sails, and nhove that with
houghs of trees, heing in the space without our out-
ward fence, and hetween that and the grove of young
wood which I ha-1 planted i and here we made two
heds of such things as I had ; viz. of good rice-straw,
with hlankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to
cover them on each hed.
My island was now people, and I thought myself
very rich in suhjects; ana it mas a merry reflection

which I frequently made, how like a king I looked.
firs..of all, the whole country was my own mere pro-
perty; so that I had an undouhted right of doiuinmn i
Idly, My people were perfectly suhjected. 1 was ah-
solute lord and lawgiver; they all owed their lives to
me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there
had heen occasion for it, for me: it was remarkahte
too, I had hut three suhjects, and they were of thre«
different religions. My man Friday was a Protestant
his father a Pagan and a cannihal; and the Spaniard
was a Papist, however, 1 allowed liherty of con-
science throughout my dominions: hut this hy the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued
prisoners, and given them shelter, and a place to rest
them upon, I hegan to thmk of making some provi-
sion for them; and the first thing f did, I ordered
Friday to take a yearling goat, hetwixt a kid and a
goat, out of r.iy particular flock, to he killed: then 1
cut of the hind quarter, and chopping it into small
pieces, I set Friday to work to hoiling and stewing,
and made them a very good dish, I assure you, of
bYsh and hroth ; having put some harley and rice al.o
into the hroth ; and as 1 cooked it without duors, (for
f made uo fire within my mner wall) so I carried it
all into the new tent ; and having set a tahle there for
thom, I sat down and ate my dinner also with them;
and, as well as 1 could, cheered them and encouraged
theni. Friday heing my interpreter, especially to U'tt
father, and indeed to the Spaniard too; for the Span-
iard spoke the languge of the savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather Hipped, I ordered
Friday to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch
our muskets and other fire-arms, which, for want of
time, we had left upon the place of hattle; and the
next day I ordered him to go and hury the dead
hodies of the savages, which l;u open to the sun, and
would presently he offensive • and I also ordered him
to hury the horrid remains of their harharous feast,
which I knew were pretty much, and which I could
•jot think of doing myself nay, I could uot hear ic

17
tM them, if I went that way: all which he punctu-
ally performed, and defaced the very appearance of
toe savages heing there ; so that when I went again, I
could scarce know where it was, otherwise than hy
the corner of the wood pointing to the place.
I then hegan to enter mto a little conversation with
my two new suhjects; and first I set Friday to inquire
of his father, what he thought of the escape of the
savages in that canoe ? and whether he might expect a
return of them with a power too great for us to resist?
His first opion was, that the savages in the hoat
never could live out the storm which hlew that night
they went off, hut must of necessity he drowned or
driven south to those other shores, where they were as
sure to he devoured, as they were to he drowned if
they were cast away; hut as to what they would do if
they came safe on shore, he said, he knew not; hut it
was his opinion, that they were so dreadfully frighted
with the manner of heing attacked, the noise, and the
fire, that he helieved they would tell their people they
were all killed hy thunder and lightning, ana not hr
the hand of man; and that the two which appeared
(viz. Friday and I) were two heavenly spirits or furies
come down to destroy them, and not men with wea-
pons. This, he said, he knew, hecause he heard them
all cry out so in their language to one another; for it
was impossihle for them to conceive that a man should
dart fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a distance,
without lifting up the hand, as was done now. Ann
this old savage was in the right; for, as I understood
since hy other hands, the savages of that part never
attempted to go over to the island afterwards. They
were so terrified with the accounts given hy these four
men, (for it seems they did escape the sea) that they
helieved, whoever went to that enchanted island,
would he destroyed with fire from the gods.
This however, 1 knew not, and therefore wa* undei
continual apprehensions for a good while, and kept
always upon my guard, I and all my army; for ai
there were now four of us, I would have ventured
npon a hundred of them fairlv in the open 6eld at an;
time.
In a little time, however, no mow canoes appear-
ing, the fear of their co:ning wore off, and I hegan to
take my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into
consideration, hring likewise assured hy Friday's
father, that 1 might depend upon good usuage from
their nation on his account, if 1 would go.
But my thoughts were a l:ttle suspended, when I
oad a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when
I understood, that there were sixteen more of his
countrymen and Portuguese, who having heen east
away, and made their escape to that side, lived there
at peace indeed with the savages, hut were very sore
put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life; I asked
him all the particulars of their voyage; and found
they were a .Spanish ship, hound from the Rio de la
Plata to the Havauna, heing directed to leave tlie.r
loading there, which was chiefly hides and s:lver, and
to hring hack what European goods they could meet
with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen on
hoard, whom they took out of another wreck: thai
five of their own men were drowned when ftrst the
ship was lost; and that these escaped through infimte
dangers and hazards, and arrive almost starved on
the cannihal coast, where they expected to have heen
devoured every moment.
He told me, they had some arms with them, hut
they were perfectly useless, for that they had neither
powder nor hall, the washing of the sea having spoiled
all their powder, hut a little which they used at their
first landing to provide themselves some food.
I asked him what he thought would hecome of
fhem there; and if they had formed no design of
making any escape? He said, they had many consul
tutions ahout it; hut that having neither vessel, nor
tools to huild one, -or provisions of any kind, their
counsels always ended in tears and despair.
1 asked him, how he thought they wolud receive a
proposal from me, which might tend towards ar
•scape ; and whether, il" they were all here it migla
not he done? I told him with freedom, I feared mostly
their treachery and ill usage of me, if I put my life
in their hand; for that gratitude was no inherent
virtue in the nature of man ; nor did men alwayi
square their dealings hy the ohligations they had te
ceived so much as they did h> the advantages they
expected; I told him, it would he very hard, that I
should he the instrument of their deliverance, and That
they should afterwards make me their prisoner in New
Spain, where an Englishman was certain to he made
a sacrifice, what necessity, or what accident soever,
hrought him thither; andthatl had rather I e deliver-
ed up to the savages, and he devoured alive, than fall
into the merciless claws of the priests, and he carried
into the Inquisition. I added, that otherwise I v*is
persuaded, if they were all here, we might with so
many hands huild, a hark large enough to carry "s all
away either to the Brasils southward, or to the islands
or Spanish coast nortward: hut that if in requital
they should, when I had put weajmnsinto their hands,
carry me hy force among their own penple, I might
he ill used for my kindness to them, and make my
case worse than it washcfoie.
He answered, with a gre nt deal of candour and m-
genuity, that their condition was so miserahle, and
they were so sensihle of it, that he heliever! they
would ahhor the thought of using any man unkindly
that should contrihute to their deliverance; and that,
ifI pleased, he would go to them with the old man,
and discourse with them ahout it, and return aga'tn,
and hring me their answer: that he would make con-
ditions with them upon the solemn oath, that ihey
would he ahsolutely under my leading, as their com-
mander and captain; and that they should swear upon
the holy Sacraments and Gospel, to he true to me,
and go to such Christian country as 1 should agree to,
Mid no other; and to he directed wholly and ahso-
lutely hy my orders, till thev were landed safely in
such country as I intended ; and thai he would tiring
k contract from them under their hauds for that pur-
pose.
Then he told me, he would first swear to me him-
self, that he would never stir from me as long as he
lived, till I gave him order; and that he would take
my side to the last drop of hlood, if there should
happen the least hreach of faith among his country
men.
He told me, they were all of them very civil honess
men, and they were under the greatest distress imagin-
ahle, having neither weapons or clothes, nor any
food, hut at the mercy and discretion of the savages;
out of all hopes of ever returning to their own coun-
try; and that he was sure, if I would undertake then
relief, they would live and die hy me.
Upon these Assurances, I resolved to venture to re-
lieve, them, -f possihle: and to send the old savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat: hut when he had
gotten all things in readiness to go. the Spaniard him-
self started an objection, which had so much prudence
in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other
hand, that I could not hut he very well satisfied in it;
and, hy his advice, put off the deliverance of his com-
rades for at least half a year. The case was thus:
He had heen with us now ahout a month ; during
which time I had let him see in what manner I had
provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my
support; and he saw evidently what stock of corn and
rice I had laid up; which, as it was more than sufst-
cient for myself, so it was not sufficient, at least with-
out good hushandry, for my family, now it was in-
creased to numher four; hut much less would it he
sufficient, if his countrymen, who were, as he said-
fourteen still alive, should come over; and least of
all would it he sufficient to victual our vessel, if we
should huild one, for a voyage to any of the Christian
colonies of America. So he told me, he thought it
would he more adviscahle, to let him and the othei
two dig and cultivate some more land, as much as I
eoiTld spare seed to sow : and that we should wait an-
other harvest, that we might have a supply of con
for his countrymen when they should come; for want
might he a temptation to them to disagree, or not to
think them seves delivered, otherwise than out of one
difficulty into another : "You know" says he, "the
children of Israel, though they rejoiced at first at tneir
heing delivered out of Egypt, yet rehelled even against
God himself, that delived them, when they came to
want hread in the wilderness."
His caution was so seasonahle, and his advice so
good, that I could not hut he verv well pleased with
his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity.
So we fell to digging, all four of us, as well as the
wooden tools we were furnished with permitted ; and
In ahout a month's time, hy the end of which it was
seed-time, we had gotten as much land cured and
trimmed up as we sowed twenty-two hushels of harley
on and sixteen jars of rice, which was in short, all
the seed we had to spare; nor indeed did we leave
ourselves harley sufficient for our own food for the
six months that we had to expect our crop, that is ti
say, reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for
sowing; for it is not to he supposed it is six months
in the ground in that country.
Having now society enough, and our numher heing
sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they
had come, unless their numher had heen very great,
we went feely all over the island, whenever we found
occasion; and as here we had our escape or deliver
ance upon our thoughts, it was impossihle, at least for
me, to have the means of it out of mine; to this pur-
pose I marked out several trees, which I thought fit
for our work, and I set Friday and his father to cut
lmg them down; and then I caused the Spaniard, to
whom I imparted my thcoghts, on that affair, to over
see and diroet their work: I shewed them with what
indefatigahle pains I had hewed a largetree intosinelt
planks, and 1 caused them to do the like, till they had
made ahoutadoxen large planks of good oak, near
two feet hroad, thirty-five feet long, and from two
inches to four inches thick: what prodigious lalxm'
it took up, any one many imagine.
At the same time I contrived to increase my littk
flock of tame goats as much as I could; and to this
purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard to go out
one day, and myself with Friday, the next day, foi
we took our turns: and hy this means we got ahout
twenty young kids to hreed up with the rest; for
whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and
added them to our flock: hut ahove all, the season
for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such a pro-
digious quantity to he hung up in the sun, that I Iks
lieve, had we heen at Alicant, where the raisins of the
sun are cured, we should have filled sixty or eighty
harrels; and these, with our hread, was a great part
of our food, and very good living too, I assure you;
for it is an exceeding nourishing food.
It was now^harvest, and our crop in good order; It
was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the
Island, hut, however, it was enough to answer our
end; for from twenty-two hushels of harley, we
hrought in and threshed out ahove two hundred and
twenty hushels, and the like in proportion of the rice,
which was store enough for our food to the next har-
rest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had heen on
shore with me ; or, if we had lnen ready for a voyage,
it would very plentifully have victualled our ship, to
have carried us to any part of the world, that is to say,
of America. When we had thus housed and secured
our magazine of corn, we fell to work to make more
wicker work ; vis great haskets, in which we kept it;
and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at
this part, and often hlamed me, that 1 did not make
some things for defence of this kinrt of work ; hut I
sow no need of it. And now having a full supply oi
food for all the guests expected, I gave the Spaniard
leave to go over to the main, to see what he could de
with those he left hehind him there: I gave him a
strict charge in writing not to hring anv man with
him, who would not first swear, in the presence of
himself and of the old savage, that he would no wa?
tnjure, fight with, or attack the person he should find
in the island, who was so !una to send for them in
order to their deliverance ; hut that they would stand
hy and defend him against all such attempts; and
wherever they went, would he entirely under, and
suhjected to his comand ; and that this should he put
in writing, and signed with their hands: how we were
to have this done, when I knew they had neithei
•en or ink, that indeed was a question which we
aever asked.
Under these instructions, the Spaniard, and the old
savage, (the father of Friday) went away in one of
f:e canoes, which they might he said to come in, oi
sat her were hrought in, when they came as prisoners
jo he devoured hy the savages.
i gave each of them a musket with a firelock on ft,
|atd ahout eight charges of powder and hall, charging
litem to he very good hushands of honS, and not to
use either of them hut upon urgent occasions.
This was a cheerful work, heing the first measures
osed hy me in view of my deliverance for now
twenty-seven years and some days. I K&ve them pro-
visions of hread, and of dried grapes, sufficient fot their
countrymen for ahout eight days time; and wishing
them a good voyage, 1 lei them go, agreeing with
them ahout a signal they should hang out at their re-
turn, hy which I should know them again, when they
came hack, at a distance, hefore they came on shore.
They went away with a fair gale on the day that
the moon was at the full; hy my account in the month
of Octoher; hut as for the exact reckoning of days,
after I had once lost it, I could never recover it again;
nor hao I kept even the numher of years so punctu-
ally, as to he sure that I was right, though, as it prov'
ed when I afterwards examined my account, I found
1 had kept a true reckoning of years.
it was no less than eight days 1 waited for them.
L
i when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened,!
4 of which the like has not, perhaps, heen heard of in j
s history. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning. 5
< when my man Friday came running into me, and j
5 called aloud, ** Master, master, they are come, they 5
> are come." 5
j I jumped up, and regardless of danger, I went out 5
5 as soon as I could get my clothes on, through my 3
5 little grove, which (hy the way) was hy this time J
5 grown to he a very thick wood; I say, regardless of 3
? danger, I went without my arms, which was not my \
p custom to do,- hut I was surprised, when, turning my 5
jj eyes to the sea, I presently saw a hoot at ahout a .J-
£ league and a half distance, standing in for the shore, J
J with a shoulder of mutton sail, as they call it, and the I
5 rind hlowing pretty fair to hring them in. Also I?
i ohserved presently, that they did not come from that 5
i side which the shore lay on, hut from the southern-, <
5 most end of the island. Upon this I called Friday 5
5 in, and hid him lie close for these were not the peo- t,
? pie we looked for, and that we did not know yet i
\ whether they were friends or enemies.
5 In the next place, 1 went in to fetch my perspective
s glass, to see what I could make of them ; and having
\ taken the ladder out, 1 climed up to the top of the
L' hill, as I used to do when I was apprehensive of any
thing, and to take my view the plainer without heing
discovered
I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye
plamly discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at ahout
two leagues and a half's distance from me S. S. E.
hut not ahove a league and a half from the shore. By
my ohseivation it appeared plainly to he an English
ship, awl the hoat appeared to he an English long-hoat.
I cannot express the confusion 1 was in, though
the joy of seeing a ship, and one whom IJhad reason
to helieve was manned hy my own countrymen, and
consequently friends, was such as I cannot descrihe;
but yet I had some secret douhts hung ahout me, 1
Cannot tell from whence they came, hidding me keep
ttpon ray guard. In tl« first place, it occurred I*
me to consider what husiness an English ship could
have in that part of the world; since it was not the
way to or from any part of the world where the Eng-
lish had any traffic; and I knew there had heen no
storms to drive them in there, as in distress; and that
if they were English really, it was most prohahl
that they were here upon no good design; and tha
I had hetter continue as I was, than fall into the hand
of thieves and murderers.
Let no man despise t'ie secret hints and notices o
danger, which sometimes are given him when he may
think there is no possihility of its heing real. That
such hints and notices are given us, I helieve few that
have made any ohservation of things can deny; that
they are certain discoveries of an invisihle world, aw3
a converse of spirits, we cannot douht; and if the
tendency of them seems to he to warn us of danger,
why should we not suppose they are from soma
friendly agent, (whether supreme, or inferior and suh-
ordinate, is not the question,) and tliat they are give-
en for our good?
The present question ahundantly confirms me in the
Justice of this reasoning; for had I not heen made
cautious hy this secret admonition, come from whence
h will, I had heen undone inevitahly, and in a far
worse condition than hefore, as you will see presently.
I had not kept myself long in this posture, hut I
sow the Isvu draw near the snore, a? if they looked
for a creek to thrugt in at for the convenience of land-
ing; however, as they did not come quite far enough,
they did not see the little inlet where I formerly
landed my rafts, hut run their hoat on shore upon the
heach, at ahout half a mile from me, which was very
happy for me; for otherwise they wouli' have landed
just, as I mav say' at my door, and would have soon
hea'en me out of my castle, and, perhaps, have plun
dercd me of t,ri I had.
When they were on shore, 1 was fully sausfied they
went Englishmen, at least most of that i; one or tw«
Ithought were Dutch, hut it Hid not prove so. There
were in all eleven men, whereof three of them 1 found
were unarmed, and (as I thought) hound ; and when
the first four or five of them were jumped on shore,
they took those three out of the hoat as prisoners : one
of the three I could perceive using the most passionate
gesture? of entreaty, affliction and dispair, even to a
kind of extravagance; the other two, I could per-
ceive, lifted up their hands some times, and appeared
concerned indeed, hut not to such a degree as the
first.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew
not what the meaning of it should he; Friday called
out to me in English, as well as he could, "O master.)
you see English mans eat prisoners as well as savage
mans"—" Why," said I, " Friday do you think they
are going to eat them then ?"—" Yes," says Friday,
M they will eat them."—" No, no," said I, "Friday \
I am afraid they will murder them indeed; hut you
may he sure they will not eat them"
All this while I had no thought of what the matter
really was, hut stood tremhling with the horror of
the siglrt, expecting every moment when the three pri-
soners should he killed; nay, once I saw one of the
villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass (as the sea-
men call it) or sword to strike one of the poor men;
smd I expected to see him fall every moment, at
which all the hlood in my hody seemed to run ohill
In my veins.
I wished heartily now for our Spaniard, and the
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 257
way to have come undiscovered within shot of them,
that I might have rescued the three men; for I saw
no fire-arms they had among them; hut it fell out to
Tty mind another way.
After I had ohserved the outrageous usage of the
three men hy the insolent seamen, I ohserved the fel-
lows ran scattering ahout the land, as if they wanted
to see the country. I ohserved also, that the three
ether men had liherty to go where they pleased; hat
they sat down all three upon the ground very penslv*
and looked like men in dispair.
This put me in mind of the first time when I came
on shore, and hegan to look ahout me; how I gave
myself over for lost, how wildly I looked round me,
what dreadful apprehensions I had, and how I lodged
in the tree all night for fear of heing devoured hy
wild heasts.
As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was
to receive hy the providential driving of the ship
nearer the land, hy the storms and tides, hy which
I have since heen so long nourished and supported;
so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how
certain of deliverance and supply they were, how near
It was to them, and how effectually and really they
were in a condition of safety, at the same time they
thought themselves lost, and their case desperate.
So little do we see hefore us in the world, and so
much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the
great Maker of the world, that he does not leave his
creatures so ahsolutely destitute, hut that in the worst
circumstances they have always something to ho
thankful for, and sometimes are nearer their deliver
ance than they imagine; nay, are even hrought to
their deliveranoe hy the means hy which they seem
to he hrought to their destruction.
It was just at the top of high water when these
people came on shore, and while partly they stood
parleying with the prisoners they hrought, and partly
while they ramhled ahout to see what kind of place
they were in, they had carelessly staid till the tide
was spent, and the water was ehhed considerahly
away, leaving their hoat aground.
They had left two men in the hoat, who, as 1 found
afterwards, having drank a little too much hrandy,
fell asleep; however, one of them waking sooner than
the other, and finding the hoat too fast aground for
him to stir it, hallooed forthe rest who were strasgling
ahout, upon which they all soon came to the hoat;
hut it was past all their strength to launch her, tho
hoat heing very heavy, and the shore on that side he
ing a soft oozy sand, almost like a quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are, per-
haps, the least of all mankind given to forethought
they gave it over, and away they strolled ahout the
country again ; and I heard one of them say aloud to
another, (calling them off from the hoat) " Why, let
her alone, Jack, can't ye? she'll float next tide." By
which I was fully confirmed in the main enquiry, of
what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself close, not once daring
to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place
of ohservation, near the top of the hill; and very glad
I was, to think how well it was fortified. I knew it
was no less than ten hours hefore the hoat could he
on float again, and hy that time it would he dark, and
I might he more at liherty to see their motions, and
to hear their discourse, if they had any.
In the mean time I fitted myself up for a hattle, as
hefore, though with more caution, knowing I had to
do with another kind of enemy than 1 had at first: I
ordered Friday also, whom I had made an excellent
marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms:
• took myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three
muskets. My figure indeed, was vcrv fierce; I had
my formidahle goat-skin coat on, with the great cap
I mentioned, a naked sword, two pistols in my helt,
and a gun upon each shoulder.
. It was my design, as I said ahove, not to have made
any attempt till it was dark; hut ahout two o'clock,
heing the heat of the day, I found that in short they
were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as 1
thought, were all laid down to sleep. The three poor
distressed men, too anxious tor their condition to get
•ny sleep, were however set down under the shelter
of a great tree, at ahout a quarter of a mile from me,
and as I thought out of sight of any of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them,
and learn something of their condition. Immediately
I marched in the figure ahove, my man Friday at a
good distance hehind me, as formidahle for his arms
as I hut not making quite so staring a spectre-like
figure as I did.
I came as near them undiscovered as 1 could, and
then, hefore any of them saw me, I called aloud to
them in Spanish, " What are ye, gentlemen?"
They started up at the noise, hut were ten times
more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth
figure that 1 made: they made no answer at all, hut
I thought I perceived them just going to fly from me,
when 1 spoke to them in English: "Gentlemen,"
said I, "do not he surprised at me; perhaps you
may have a friend near you, when you did not expect
it."—" He must he sent directly from heaven then,"
said one of them very gravely to me, pulling off hn
hat at the same time, " for pur condition is past the
help of man."—" All help is from Heaven, Sir," said
I: "hut can you put a stranger in the way how to
help you? For you seem to me to he in some great
distress: I saw you when you landed ; and when you
seemed to make application to the hrutes that came
with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill
you."
The poor man, with tears running down his face,
and tremhling, looking like one astonished, returned,
M Am I talking to God or man ? Is it a real man, or
an angel ?"—" Be in no fear ahout that, Sir," said 1t
"if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would
have come hetter clothed, and armed after another
manner than you see me in; pray lay aside your
fears; I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to1
assist you; you see I have one servant only; we have
snns and ammunition; tell us freely can we serve
you ?—what is your case?"
"Our case," said he, " Sir, is tco long to tell you,
while our murderers are so near; hut in short, Sir,
I was commander of that ship; my men having muti
nied against me, they have heen hardly prevailed oa
not to murder me, and a, tast have set me on shore
in this desolate place, with these two men with ma
»ne my mate, the other a passenger, where we ex
p-ete:l to perish, helieving the place to he uninhahtt
ad, and know not yet what to think of it."
"Where are those hrutes, your enemies ?"—" sain
I; "do you know where they are gone?M—" There
they are sir," said he, " pointing to a thicket of trees;
"my heart tremhles for fear they hase seen us, and
heard you sneak j if they have, they will certainly
murder us alL"
"Haw they any fire arms?" said I. He answered,
"they had only two nieces, and one which they left
in the hoat."—" Well then," said I, "leave the rest
to me; I see they are all asleep ; it is an easy thing to
kill them all; hut shall we rather take them prison-
ers?" He told me there were two desperate villians
among them, that it was scarce safe to shew any
mercy to; hut if they were secured, he helieved nil
the rest would return to their duty: I asked him, which
they were? He told me, he could not at that distance
descrilw them; hut he would ohey my orders in
any thing I would direct. "Well," said I,"let us re-
treat out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and
we will resolve farther;" so they willingly went hack
with me, till the woods covered us from them.
"Look you. Sir," said I, "if I venture upon your
deliverance, are you willing to make two conditions
with me?" He anticipated my proposals, hy telling
me, that hoth he and the ship, if recovered, should he
wholly directed and commanded hy me in every
thing; and if the ship was not recovered, he would
live and die with me in what part of the world soever
I would send him; and the two other men said the
same.
"Well," said I, » my conditions are hut two: L
That while you stay on this island with me, you will
not pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms
into your hands, you will upon all occasions givethein
up to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine, upoft
this island, anu in the mean time to he governed hy
my orders.
"t. That if the ship is or may he recoverered, you
wfll carry me and my man to England passage free."
He gave me all the assurance that the invention and
faith of man could devise, that he would comply
with these most reasonahle demands, and hesides
would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upov
all occasions as long as he lived.
"Well then," said I, "here are three muskets for
you, with powder and hall; tell me next what you
think is proper to he done." He shewed all the testi-
mony of his gratitude that he was ahle; hut offered to
he wholly guided hy me: I told him, I thought it
was hard venturing any thing, hut the hest method I
eould think of, was to fire upon them at once, as they
lay; and if any were not killed at the first volley, and
offered to suhmit, we might save them, and so put il
wholly upon God's providence to direct the shot.
He said, very modestly, that he was loath to kill
Ihem, if he could help it; hut that those two were in-
corrigihle viUians, and had heen the authors of all th<
mutiny in the ship; and if they escaped, we should he
undone still; for they would go on hoard, and hring
the whole ship's company, and destroy us all. "Well
then," said I, "necessity legitimates my advice; for
It is the only way to save our lives." However, see-
ing him still cautious of shedding hlood, I told him,
they should go themselves, and manage as they found
convement.
In the middle of this discourse we heardsome ol
Ihem awake, and soon after we^saw two of them on
Iheir feet . I asked him, if either of them were the
men who he had said were the heads of the mutiny?
He said, No. "Well then," said I, "you may let
Ihem esape, and Providence seems to have wakened
them on purpose to save themselves."—" Now," said
I » if the rest escape you, it is your fault."
Animated with this, he took the musket I had given
him in his hand, and pistol in his helt, and his two
comrades with him, with each man a piece in his
hand: the two men, who were with Lim, going first.
made some noise, at which one of the seamen, who
was awake, turned ahout, and seeing them coming,
cried out to the rest; hut it was too late then; for the
moment he cried out, they fired, I mean the two men,
the captain wisely reserving his own piece: they had
so well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that
one of them was killed on the spos and the other very
much wounded; hut not heing dead he started »o
on his feet, and called eagerly for help to the othett
hut the captain, stepping to him, told him it was too
late to cry for help; he should call upon God to for
give his villany; and with that word knocked him
down with the stock of his musket, so that he never
spoke more : there were three more in the company,
and one of them was also slightly wounded. By thts
time 1 was come; and when they saw their danger
and that it was in vain to resist, they hegged for met
cy. The captain told them, he would spare their
lives, if they would give him any assurance of their
ahhorrence of the treachery they had heen guilty of
and would swear to he faithful to him in recovering
the ship, and afterwards in carrying her hack to Ja-
maica, from whence they came. They gave him all
the protestations of their sincerity that could he da
sired, and he was willing to helieve them, and spare
their lives, which 1 was not against; only 1 ohliged
him to keep them hound hand and foot while they
were upon tne island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the cap-
tain's mate to the hoat, with orders to secure her, and
hring away the oars and sail, which they did; and
Dy and hy, three straggling men; that were (happily
for them.) parted from the rest, came hack upon
hearing the guns fired ; and seeing their captain, who
hefore was their prisoner, now their conqueror, they
suhmitted to he hound also; and so our victory was
complete.
It now remained, that the captain and 1 should in-
quire into one another's circumstances: I hegan first,
and told him my whole history, which he heard with
an attention even to amazement, and particularly a
the wonderful manner of my heing furnished wita
provisions and ammunition; and indeed, as my story
is a who]*? collection of wonders, it affected him deep-
ly; hut when he reflected from thence upon himself
and how I seemed to have heen preserved there on
purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his race,
and he could not speak a word more.
After this communication was at an end, I carried
kim and his two men into my apartments, leading
them in just where I came out, via. at the top of the
house; where I refreshed them with such provisions
as I had, and shewed them all the contrivances I had
made during my long, long inhahiting that place.
All I shewed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; hut, ahove all, the captain admired my for-
tification ; and how perfectly I had concealed my re
treat with a grove of trees, which, having now heen
planted near twenty years, and the trees growing much
taster than in England, was hecome a little wood,
and so thick, that it was unpassahle in any part of it,
hut at that one side where I had reserved my little
winding passage into it: this I told him was my cas-
tle, and my residence; hut that I had a seat in the
country, as most princes have, whither I could retreat
upon occasion, and I would shew him that too ano-
ther time; hut at present our husiness was to consider
how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to
that; hut told me, he was perfectly at a loss what mea-
sure to take; for that there were still six-and-twenty
hands on hoard, who having entered into a cursed
conspiracy, hy which they had all forfeited their lives
to the law, would he hardened in it now hy despera-
tion; and would carry it on, knowing that, if they
were reduced, they should he hrought to the gallows
as soon as they came to England, or to any of the
English colonies; and that therefore there would he
no attacking them with so small a numher as we were.
I mused for am*e tune upon what he had said, and
found it wasa very rational conclusion, and that there
ore something was to he resolved on very speedily,
as well to draw the men on hoard into some snare
for their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us,
and destroying us. Upon this it presently occurred
to me, that in a little while the ship's crew, wonder-
ing what was hecome of their comrades, and of the
hoat, would certainly come on shore in their other
hoat to see for them; and that then perhaps they
might come armed, and he too strong for us: this he
allowed was rational.
Upon this I told him, the first thing we hadto do
was to stave the hoat, which lay upon the heach, so
that they might not carry her off; and taking every
thing out of her, leaving her so far useless as not to
he fit to swim; accordingly we went on hoard, took
the arms which were left on hoard out of her, and
whatever else we found there, which was a hottle ol
hrandy, and another of rum, a few hiscuit cakes, an
horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar in a piece
of canvass; the sugar was five or six pounds: all
uhich was very welcome to me, especially the hrandy
ind sugar, of which I had had none left for many
tears.
When we hart carried all these things on shore, (the
cars, mast, sail, and rudder of the hoat were carried
hefore as ahove,) we knocked a great hole in her
bottom, that if they had come strong enough to mas-
ter us, yet they could not carry off the hoat
.
Indeed it was not much in my thoughts, that we
could he capahle to recover the ship; hut my view
was, that if they went away without the hoat, I did
not much question to make Iter fit again to carry us
away to the Leward Islands, and call upon our friends
the Spaniards in my way, for 1 had them still in my
thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had
first hy main strength heaved the Iraat up upon the
heach, so high that the tide would not float her off at
high water mark; and, hesides, had hroken a hole m
VOL. 1
ADVKTnKKS

her hottom too hig to he quickly stopped, and we •
sat down musing what we should do; we heaid ute
shtp fire a gun, and saw her make a waft with her
ancient as a signal for the hoat to come on hoard;
hut no hoat stirred; and they fired several times,
making other signals for the hoat.
At last, when all their signals and firings picve
fruitless, and they found the hoat did not stir, we saw
them (hy the help of our glasses) hoist another ImipI
out, and row towards the shore; and we found, aa
they approached that there were no less than ten men
in her, and that they had fire-arms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore,
we had a full view of them as they came, and a plain
sight of the men, even of their faces; hecause the tide
having set them a little to the east of the other hoat,
they rowed up under shore, to come to the same place
where the other had landed, and where the hoat lay.
By this means, I say, we had a full view of them,
and the captain knew the persons and characters of
all the men in the hoat; of whom ho said that there
were three very honest fellows, who he was sure were
led into this conspiracy hy the rest, heing over|iower-
ed and frighted; hut that for the hoatswain, who, it
seems, was the chief officer among them, and all the
rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's
crew ; and were no douht, made desperate in their
new enterprise: and terrihly apprehensive he was,
that they would he too powerful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him, that men in our cir-
cumstances were past the operations of fear; that
seeing almost every condition that could he was hetter
than that we were supposed to he in, we ought to
expect that the consequence, whether death or life
would he sure to he a deliverance: I asked him, what
he thought of the circumstances of my life, and whe-
ther a deliverance were not worth venturing for?
H And where, Sir," said I, " is your helief of my he-
ki£ preserved here on purpose to save your life, which
elevated you a little r/hile ago? For my part," said U

2j,7
14 there seems to he hut one thing amiss in all the
prospect of it."—" What's that ?" says he. " Why,"
said I, "'tis that as you say, there are three or four
honest fellows amoug them, which should he spared;
had they heen all of the wicked part ol the crew, I
kt-juld have thought God's providence had singled
them out to deliver them into your hands , for, depend
upon it, every man of them that comes ashore, are
our own, and shall dte or live as they hehave to us."
As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful
countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him; so
we set vigorously to our husiness. We had, upon the
first appearance of the hoat's coming from the ship,
considered of separating our prisoners and had in-
oeed secured them effectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured
than ordinary, 1 sent with Friday, and one of the
tltree (delivered men) to my cave, where they were
remote enuugh and out of danger of heing heard or
discovered, or of finding their way out of the woods,
if they could have delivered themselves; here the)
left them hound hut gave them provisions, and pro-
mised them, if they continued there quietly, to give
them their litteriy in a day or two; hut that if they
attempted their escape, they should he put to death
without mercy. They promised faithfully to hear
their confinement with patience, and were veiy thank-
ful that they had such good usuage as to have provi-
sions and a light left them; for Friday gave them
candles (such as we made ourselves) for their com-
fort ; and they did not know hut that he stood centmel
over them at the entrance.
The other prisoners had hetter usage; two of them
were kept pinioned indeed, hecause the captain was
not free to trust them; hut the other two were taken
into my service upon their captain's recommendation,
and upon their solemnv engaging to live and die with
us; so, with them and the three honest men, we were
seven men well armed ; and 1 made no douht we
should he ahle to deal well enough with the ten that
were a-coming, considering that the captain had said,
there were three or four honest men among them a!•o.
As soon as they got to the place where their other-
hoat lay, they ran their hoat into the heach, and came
all on shore, h&uling the hoat up after them, which
I was glad to see ; for I was afraid they would rathe
have left the hoat at an anchor, some distance from
Ihe shore, with some hands in her to guard her an
so we should not he ahle to sieze the hoat.
Bemg on shore, the first thing they did, they ran
all to the other ooat; and it was easy to see they were
under a great surprise to find her stripped as ahove,
of all that was in her, and a great hole m her hottom.
After they had mused awhile upon this, they set
Hp two or three great shouts, hallooing with all then
might, to try if they could make their companions
hear; hut all was to no purpose; then they came all
close in a ring, and fired a volley of their small arms,
which indeed we heard, and the echoes made the
woods ring; hut it was all one : those i:i the cave, we
were sure, could not hear; and those in our keeping,
though they hear 1 it well enough, yet durst give no
answer to them.
They were so astonished at the surprise of thin,
that, as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go
all on hoard again to their ship, and let them know
there, that the men wert . all murdered, and the long-
hoat staved ; accordingly, they immediately launched
the hoat again, and got all of them on hoard.
The captain was terrihly amazed, and even con-
ftunded at this, helieving they would go on hoard the
ship again and set sail, giving their comrades up to
kist, and so he should still lose the ship, which he wa
in hopes we should have recovered; hut he was quick
\y as much frighted the other wav.
The? had not heen long put off with the hoat, hut
we perceived them coming on shore again ; hut with
this new rmsme in their conduct, which it seeais
key consulted together upon; viz. to leave three men
m the hoat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up
into the country to look for their fellows.
This was a great disappointment to us;'for now
we were at a loss what to do; for our seizing those
seven men on shore would he no advantage to us if
we let the hoat escape, hecause they would then row
away to the ship; and then the rest of them would he
sure to weigh, and set sail, and so our recovering the
ship would he lost
.
However, we had no remedy hut to wait and see
what the issue of things might present. The seven
men came on shore, and the three who remained in
the hoat put her off to a good distance from the shore,
and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that it
was impossihle for us to come at them in the hoat
.
Those that came on shore kept clore together march-
ing towards the top of the little hill, under which my
hahitation lay; and we could see them plainly, though
they could not perceive us; we could have heen very
glad they would have come nearer to us, so that we
might have fired at them; or that they would have
gone farther off, that we might have come ahroad.
But when they were come to the hrow of the hill,
where they could see a great way in the valley and
wood3, which lay towards the north-east part, and
where the island lay lowest, they shouted ana hallooed
till they were weary; and not caring, it seems, to
venture far from the shore, nor far from one another,
they sat down together under a tree, to consider of
it: had they thought fit to have gone to sleep there,
as the other party of them had done, they had done
he joh for us; hut they were too full of apprehensions
of danger, to venture to go to sleep, though they could
not teH what the danger was they had to fear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
this consultation of theirs; viz. that perhaps they
would all fire a volley again, to endeavour to make
their fellows hear, and that we shoud all sally upon
*hem, just at the juncture when their pieces were all
discharged, and they would certainly yield, and we
should have them without hloodshed. I liked the
proposal, provided it was done while we were near
enough to come up to them, hefore they could load
their pieces again.
But this event did not happen, and we lay still a
long time very irresolute what course to take ; at length
I told them, there would he nothing to he done in
my opinion till night; and then, if they did not re-
turn to the lioat, perhaps we might find a way to get
hetween them and the shore, and so might use some
stratagem with them in the hoat, to get them on shore.
We waited a great while, though very impatient
for their removing, and were very uneasy: when, af-
ter long consultations, we saw them start all up, and
march down toward the sea: it seems, they had such
dreadful apprehensions upon them of the dangerof the
place, that they resolved to go on hoard the ship
again, give their companions over for lost, and so go
on with their intended voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore,
I imagined it to he as it really was; that they had
given over their search, and were for going hack again;
and the captain, as soon as 1 told him my thought.!,
was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it: hut I
presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them hack
again, and which answered my end to a tittle.
1 ordered Friday, and the captain's mate, to go
ever the little creek westward, towards the place
where the savages came on shore when Friday was
rescued; Bud as soon as they came to a little rising
ground, at ahout half a mile's distance, 1 hade them
halloo as loud as they could, and wait till they found
the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they
heard the seamen answer them, they should return it
again, and then, keeping out of sight, take a ruunn,
always answering when the others hallooed, to draw
them as far into the island, and among the woods, at
possihle, and then wheel ahout again to me, hy such
ways as 1 directed.
They were just going into the hoat, when Friday
•ml the mate hallooed,and they presently heard them,
and answering, run along the shore westward, towards
the voice they heard, when they were presently stop-
ped hy the creek, where the water heing up, they
•ould not get over, and called for the hoat to const
up, and set them over, as indeed 1 expected.
When they had set themselves over, I ohserved thai
the hoat heing gone up a good way into the creek,
and as it were in a harhour within the land, they
took one of the thiee men out of her togo along with
them, and left only two in the hoat, having fastened
her to the stump of a little tree on the shore.
This was what I wished for, and immediately leav-
ing Friday and the captain's mate to their husiness, 1
took the rest with me, and, crossing the creek out of
their sight, we surprised the two men hefore they were
a vare, one of them lying on shore, and the other ho-
ng in the hoat; the fellow on shore was hetween
sleeping and waking, and going to start up, the cap
b .n, who was foremost, ran in upon him and knock-
e-I him down, and then called out to him in the hoat
Ij yield, or he was a dead man.
There needed very few arguments to persuade a
single man to yield, when he saw five men upon him,
ana his comrade knocked down ; hesides, this was, it
seems, one of the three who were not so hearty in tha
mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was
easily persuaded not only to yield, hut afterwards to
Join very sincerely with us.
In the meantime, Friday and the captain's mate so
Well managed their husiness with the rest, that thev
drew them, hy hallooing and answering, from one hill
to another, and from one wood to another, till they
tint only heartily tited them, hut left them where they
aere very sure they could not reach hack to the he r t
hefore it was dark; and indeed they were heart ,y
'red themselves also hy the time they came hac f
an.
We had nothing now to do hut to watch for them
In the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to mi
cure work with them.
It was several hours after Friday came hack to me
hefore they came hack to their hoat; and we could
hear the foremost of them, long hefore they cams
quite up, calling to those hehind to come along; and
could also hear them answer, and complain how lains
and tired they were, and not heing ahle to come any
faster, which was very welcome news to us.
At length they came up to the hoat; hut it is impose
rihle to express their confusion, when they found the
hoat fast aground in the creek, the tide ehhed out, and
their two men gone; we could hear them call to on*
another in a most lamentahle manner, telling one an-
other they were gotten into an enchanted island ; thai
either there were inhahitants in it, and they should
all he murdered; or else there were devils or spirits in
it, and they should he all carried away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two com-
rades hy their names a great many times, hut no an-
swer: after some time, we could see them, hy the littl i
light there was, run ahout ringing their hands, libs
men in despair; and that sometimes they would gii
and sit down in the hoat to rest themselves, then
come ashore, and walk ahout again, and so the same
thing over again.
My men would fain have had me given them leavn
to fall upon them at once in the dark; hut I was wil-
ling tn take them at some advantage, so to spare them,
and kill as few ot them as I could; and especially I
was unwilling to hazard the killind any of our men,
knowing the other men were very well armed: I re-
solved to wait to see if they did not separate; and
therefore, to make sure of them, I drew my amhus-
cade nearer; and ordered Friday and the captain to
creep upon their hands and feet as close to the ground
as they could, that they might not he discovered, and
get a« near them as they could possihly, hefore they
offered to fire.
They had not heen long in that posture, till the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the
mutiny, and had now shewn himself the most deject-
ed and dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards
them with two more of the crew; the captam was sc
eager at having the principal rogue so much in his
power, that he could hardly have patience to let him
come so near as to he sure of hun; for they only
heard his tongue hefore: hut when they came nearer
the captain and Friday, starting up on their feet, let
fly at them.
The hoatswam was killed upon the spot; the next
man was shot in the hody, and fell just hy him,
though he did not die till an hour or two after; and
the third run for it.
At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men ; vis
myself generalissimo; Friday my lieutenant-gene: al,
the captain and his iwo men, and the three prisoners
of war whom he had trusted with arms.
We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that
they could not see our numher; and I made the man
they had left in the hoat who was now one of us, to
call them hy name to try if I could hring them to a
parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to terms;
which fell out just as we desired: for indeed it was
easy to think, as their condition then was, they would
he very willing to capitulate; so he calls out, as lnud
as he could, to one of them, "Tom Smith, Tom
Smith." Tom Smith answered immediately. "Who's
that? Rohinson?" For it seems he knew his voice-
The other answered, " Ay, ay ; for God's sake, T om
Smith, throw down your arms, and yield, or you are
all dead men this moment."
"Who must we yield to? where are they?" says
Smith again. "Here they are," says he; "here is
our captain and fifty men with him, )iave heen hunt-
ing you this two hours ; the hoatswain is killed. Will
Frye is wounded, and 1 am a prison*/ , and if you
do not yield, you are all lost."

"WiH they give us quarter then ?" says Tom Smith,
* and we will yield."—" I'll go and ask, if you pro-
mise to yield," says Rohinson. So he asked the cap-
tain, and the captain himself then calls out, - You
Smith, you know my voice, if you lay down your
arms immediatelv and suhmit, you shall have you•
lives, all hut Will Atkins."
Upon this Will Atkins cried ous, " For God's sake,
captain, give me quarter: what have I done? they
have all heen as had as I," (which hy the way was
not true either; for it seems this Will Atkins was the
first man that laid hold of the captain when they first
mutinied, and used him harharously, in tying hit
hands and giving him injurious language :) howerer,
the captain told him he must lay down his arms at
discretion, and trust to the governors's mercy, hy
which he meant me: for they all called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and heg-
ged their lives : and I sent the man that had parleyed
with them, and two more, who hound them all ; and
then my great army of fifty men, which, particularly
with those three, were all hut eight, came up and
seized upon them all, and upon their hoat, only that I
kept myself and one more out of sight, for reasons of
state.
Our next work was to repair the hoat . and to think
of seising the ship; and as for the captain, now ha
had leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with
them upon the villainy of their practices with him,
and at length, upon the farther wickedness of thett
design : and how certainly it must hring them to mis-
cry and distress in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and hegged hard
for their lives: as for that, he told them they were
none of his prisoners, hut the commander's of the
Island ; that they thought they had set him on shore
In a harren uninhahited island ; hut it had pleased
God so to direct them, that the island was inhahited,
end that the governor was an Englishman; that he
them all there if he pleased; hut as he

27*
had given them all quarter, he supposed he woulJ
send them to England, to he dealt with there as jus-
tice required except Atkins, whom he was command-
ed hy the governor to advise to prepare for deatti;
for that he would he hanged in the morning.
Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had
its desired effect. Atkins fell upon his knees Ju Im ^
the captatu to intercede with the governor for his life;
and all the rest hegged of him for God's sake, that
they might not he sent to England.
It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliver-
ance was come, and that it would he a most easy
thing to hring these fellows in to he hearty in getting
possession of the ship; so I retired in the dark from
them, that they might not see what kind of a governor
they had, and called the captain to me: when I called,
as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to
speak again and say to the captain, " Captain, the
commander calls for you ;" and presently the captain
replied," Tell his excellency I am just ••commg."
This more perfectly amused them ; and they all be-
lieved that the commander was just hy with his fifty
men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my
project for seizmg the ihip, which he liked wonder-
fully well, and resolved to put it in execution the next
morning.
But, in order to execute it with more art, and to he
secure of success, I told him we must divide the pri-
soners, and that he should go and take Atkins, and
two more of the worst of them, and send them, pinion-
ed to the cave where the others lay: this was com-
mitted to Friday, and the two men who came on sliore
with the captain.
They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison ,
end it was mdeed a dismal place, especially to men
in their condition.
The others 1 ordered to my hower, as I called it, o|
vhirh I have given a full description; and as it was
*7G
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
fenceed in, and they pimoned, the place was se&tjra
enough, considering they were upon their hehaviour
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who wai
to enter into a parley with them; in a word, to try
them, and tell me, whether he thought they migly he
trusted or no, to go on hoard, and surprise the ship
He talked to them of the injury done him, of the con-
dition they were hrought to; and that though the
governot nad given them quarter for their lives, as to
the present action, yet that if they were sent to Eng-
land, they would all he hanged in chains, to he sure;
hut that if they would join in such an attempt as to
recover the ship, he would have the governor's engage-
ment for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal
would he accepted hy men in their condition : they
fell down on their knees to the captain, and promised
with the deepest imprecations, that they would he
faithful to him to the last drop, and that they should
owe their lives to him, and would go with him all
over the worl <; that thev would own him for a father
to them as long as they lived.
"Well," says the captain, "I must go and tell tha
governor what you say, and see what I can do to
hring him to consent to it." So he hrought me an
account of the temper he found them in; and that
he verily helieved they would he faithful.
However, that we might he very secure, I told him
he should go hack again, and choose out five of them,
and tell them that they should see that they did not
want men; hut he would take out those five to he hii
assistants, and that the governor would keep the nthei
two, and the three that were sent prisoners to tha
castle, (my cave) as hostages for the fidelity of those
five; and that if they proved unfaithful in the execu-
tion, the five hostages should he hanged in chains aliva
upon the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that the
governor was in earnest; however, they had no way

icft them hut to accept it; and it was now the husiness
of the prisoners, as much as of the captam, to per*
suade the other five to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expediw
Hon: 1. The captain, hie mate, and passenger. %.
Then the two prisoners of the first gang, to whom,
having their characters from the captain, I had given
their liherty, and trusted them with arms. 3. The
other two whom I kept till now in my hower pinion-
ed ; hut, upon the captain's motion, had now released.
4. These five released at last; so that they were twelve
in all, hesides five wi kept prisoners in the cave for
hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture
with these hands on hoard the ship: for, as for me,
and my man Friday, 1 did not think it was proper
for us to stir, having seven men left hehind; and it
was employment enough for us to keep them asun-
der, and supply them with victuals.
As to the five in the cave, 1 resolved to keep thepi
fast; hut Friday went twice a day to them, to supply
them with necessaries; and 1 made the other two
carry provisions to a certain distance, where Friday
was to take it
.
When I shewed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them, I was the person the
governor had ordered to look after them, and that it
was the governor's pleasure that they should not stir
any where hut hy my direction; that if thev did, they
should he fetched into the castle, and he laid in irons;
so that as we never suffered them to see me as gover-
nor, so f near appeared as another person, and spoka
of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like,
upon all occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty hefore him, hut
to furnish his two hoats, stop the hreach of one, and
man them; he made his passenger captain sf one,
with four other men ; and himself, and his mate, and
five more, went in the other: and they contrived
their husiness verv well; for they came up to the ship
ahout midnight. As soon as they came within call of
the ship, he maHe Rohinson hail thim, and tell them
he had hrought off the men in the hoat, hut that it
was a long time hefore they had found them, and tho
like; holding them in a chat, till they came to tho
ship's side : when the captain and the mate, entering
fcrst with their arms, immediately knocked down the
•econd mate and carpenter with the hut e;.d of their
muskets ; heing very faithfully seconded hy their men,
they secured all the rest that were upon the main and
quarter decks, and hegan to fatten the hatches to
keep them down who were helow; when the oi1'er
hoat, and their men, entering at the fore chains, se-
cured the forecastle of the ship, and ihe shuttle which
went down into the cook-room, making three men
they iound there prisoners.
When this was done, and all «afe upon the deck,
th"! captain ordered the mate with three men to hreak
into the round house, where the new rehel captain
lay, and, having taken the alarm, was gotten up, and
with two men and a hoy had gotten fire arms in theii
hands; and when the mate with a crow split open
the door, the new captain and his men fired holdly
among them, and wounded the mate with a musket-
hall, which hroke his arm, and wounded two more of
the men. hut killed nohody.
The mate, calling for help, rushed, however, into
the round-house, wounded as he was, and with ht»
fiistol shot the new captain through the head, the hid-
els entering at his mouth, and came out again hehind
one of his ears; so that he never spoke a word f upon
which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken effec-
tually, without any more lives heing lost.
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain
ordered seven guns to he fired, which was the signal
agreed upon with me, to give me notice of his suc-
cess ; which you may he sure I was verv glad !o hear,
having sat watching upon the shore for it, till neat
two of the clock in the morning
Having thus heard the signal plainly, 1 laid ma
/own; and it having heen a day of great fatigue to
me, I slept very sound, till I was something surprised
with the uoise of a gun; and presently starting up, I
heard a man call me hy the name of governor, gover-
nor; and presently I knew the captain's voice; when
climhing up to the top of the hill, there he stood, and
pointing to the ship, he emhraced me in his arms:
"My dear friend and deliverer," says he, "there's
your ship, for she is all yours, and so are we, and all
that helong to her" I cast my eyes to the ship, and
ihere she rode within a little more than half a mile of
the shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon
a* they were masters of her; and the weather heing
fan, had hrougnt her to an anchor Just against the
mouth of a little creek; and the tide heing up, the
captain had hrought the pinnace in near the place
where I first landed my rafts, and so landed just at
my door.
I was, at first, ready to sink down with the sur-
prise: for 1 saw my deliverance indeed visihly put
into my hands, all things easy, and a large ship just
ready to carry me away whither 1 pleaded to go: at
first, for some time, I was not ahle to answer one
word ; hut as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast
hy him, or 1 should have fallen to the ground.
He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled
s hottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of
cordial, which he had hrought on purpose for me:
after I drank it, I sat down upon the ground, and
though it hrought me to myself, yet it was a good
while hefore I could speak a word to him.
All this while the poor man was in as great an
ecstacy as I, only not under any surprise, as 1 was;
and he said a thousand kind tender things to me, to
compose and hring me to myself; hut such was the
flood of joy in my hreast, that it put all my spirits
into confusion; at last it hroke into tears, and in •
little while after t recovered my speech.
Then I took my turn, and emhraced him as my
deliverer: and we rejoiced together: I told him, I
19
looked upon him as a man sent from Heaven to da
liver me, and that the whole transaction seemed to he
a chain of wonders; that such things as these were the
testimonies we had of a secret hand of Providence
governing the world, and an evidence, that the eyes
of an infimte Power could search into the remotest
corner of the world, and send help to the miserahle
whenever he pleased.
I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to
Heaven ; and what heart could forhear to hless Him,
who had not only in a miraculous manner provided
for one in such a wilderness, and such a desolau
condition, hut from whom every deliverance must
always he acknowledged to proceed?
When we had talked awhile, the captain told ma
he had hrought me some little refreshments, such at
the ship afforded, and such as the wretches who had
heen so long his masters, had not plundered him of.
Upon this he called aloud to the hoat, and hids his
men hring the things ashore that were for the gover-
nor; and indeed it was a present, as if I had heen
one, not that I was to he carried along with them, hut
as if I had heen to dwell upon the island sull, and
they were to go without me.
First, he had hrought me a case of hottles full of
excellent cordial waters ; six large hottles of Madeira
wine, the hottles held two quarts apiece; two pounds
of excellent good tohacco, twelve good pieces of ihe
ship's heef, and six piecos of pork, with a hag of peas,
and ahout a hundred weight of hiscuit.
He hrought me also a hox of sugar, a hox of flour,
a hag full of lemons, and two hottles of lime-juice,
and ahundance of other things: hut hesides these, and
what was a thousand times more useful to me, he
hrought me six clean new shirts, six very good neck-
cloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat,
and one pair of stockings, and a very good suit of
clothes of his own, which had heen worn but very
little. In a word, he clothed me from head 1o foot.
It was % very kind and agreeahle present, as any
281
one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; hut
never was any thing in the world of that kinH so un-
pleasant, awkward, and uneasy, as it was to me to
wear such clothes at their first putting on.
After these ceremonies passed, and after all his
good things were hrought into my little apartment,
we hegan to consult what was to he done with tl.e
prisoners we had , for it was worth considering whe-
ther we might venture to take them away with us or
no, especially two of them, whom we knew to he in-
corrigihle and refractory to the last degree ; and the
captain said, he knew they were such rogues, that
there was no ohliging them ; and if he did carry them
away, it must l.c in irons, as malefactors, to he de-
livered over to justice at the first English colony he
could come at; and I found that the captain himself
was very anxious ahout it
.
Upon this, I told hin, that, if he desired it, I durst
undertake to hring the two men he spoke of to make
it their own request that he should leave them upon
the island: " I should he very glad of that," says the
captain, " with a!! my heart."
"Well," said I, "1 will send for them, and talk
with them for you:" so I caused Friday and the two
hostages, for they were now discharged, their com-
rades having performed theirpromise; 1 say, I caused
them to go to the cave, and hring up the five men,
pinioned as they were, to the hower, and keep them
there till I came.
After some time, I came thither dressed in my new
hahit, and now I was called governor again. Being
•l l met, and the captain with me; I caused the men
to he hrought hefore me, and I told them, I had had
a full account of their villanous hehaviour to the cap-
tain, and how they had run away with the ship, and
were preparing to commit farther rohheries; hut that
Providence had ensnared them in their own ways,
•nd that they were fallen into the pit which they had
digged for others.
let them know, that hy my direction the ship had

heen seized, that she lay now in the road, and thcp
might see hy and hy, that their new captain had n>
ceived the reward of his villany; for that they mighl
see him hanging at the yard-arm: that as to them, 1
wanted to know what they had to say, why I should
not execute them as pirates taken in the fact, as hy
my commission they could not douht 1 had authority
to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that
they had nothing to say hut this, that when they were
taken, the captain promised them their lives, and they
humhly implored my mercy; hut I told them I knew
not what mercy to shew them; for, as for myself, 1
had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and
had taken passage with the captain to go for Englandt
and as for the captain, he could not carry them to
Ftnland, other than as prisoners in irons to he tried
for mutiny, and running away with the ship; the
consequence of which they must needs know, would
he the gallows ; so that I could not tell what was hout
for them, unless they had a mind to take their fate in
the island; if they desired that, I did not care, as!
had liherty to leave it; I had some inclination to give
them their lives, if they thought they could shift oa
shore. They seemed very thankful for it; said they
would much rather venture to stay there, than to he
carried to England to he hanged; so I left it on that
issue.
However the captain seemed to make some ditT:.
culty of it, as if he doist not leave them there : upon
this I seemed to he a little angry with the captain, and
told him, that they were my prisoners, not his; and
that seeing I had offered them so much favour, I
would he as good as my word ; and that if he did not
thintt fit to consent to it, I would ret them at liherty
as I found thein ; and if he did not like that, he might
take them again if he could catch them.
lrpon this they appeared very thankful, and I ac-
cordingly set them at liherty, and hade them re tint
into the woods, to the place whence they came, and 1
would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition
and some directions how they should live very well,
if they thought fit.
Upon this, I prepared to go on hoard the ship; hut
told the captain, that I would stay that night to pre-
pare my things; and desired him to go on hoird in
the meantime, and keep all right in the ship, and
jend the hoat on shore the next day for me ; ordering
him in the meantime to cause the new captain- who
was killed, to he hanged at the yard-arm, that these
men might see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up
to me to my apartment, and entered seriously into
discourse with them of their circumstances: I told
them, I thought thev had made a right choice; thai
If the captain carried them away, they would cer-
tainly he hangeJ: I shewed them their captain hang-
ing at the yard-arm of the ship, and tola them they
had nothing less to expect
When they had all declared their willmgness to
stay, I then told them I would let them into the story
of my living there, and put them in the way of mak-
ing it easy to them: accordingly I gave them the
whole history of the place, and of my coming to it:
shewed them my fortifications, the way I made my
hread, planted my com, cured my grapes; and, in a
word, all that was necessary to make them easy. I
told them the story of the sixteen Spaniards that wera
to he expected; for whom I left a letter, and mada
thei.i promise to treat them in common with then>
telves.
I left them my fire-arms; viz. five muskets, threa
fowling-pieces, and three swords: 1 had ahout a har-
rel of powder left; for after the first year or two I
used hut little, and wasted none. I gave them a de-
scription of the way I managed the goats, and direc-
tions to milk and fatten them, to make hoth hutter
and cheese.
In a word, I save them every paYt of my own
story ; and I told the n, I would prevail with the cap
tain to leave them two harrels of gunpowder mora,
and some garden seed, which I told them I would
have heen very glad of; also I gave them the hag of
peas which the captain had hrought me to eat, and
bade them he sure to sow and increase them.
Having done all this, I left them the next dav, and
went on hoard the ship: we prepared immediately to
•nil, hut did not weigh that night: the next mornirg
early, two of the five men came swimming to the
ship's side, and makmg a most lamentahle complamt
of the other three, hegged to he taken into the ship for
God's sake, for they should he murdered; and heg-
ged the captain to take them on hoard though he
bansed them immediately.
Upon this the captain pretended to have no power
without me ; hut after some difficultv, and after their
solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on
hoard, and were some time after soundly whipped
and pickled; after which they proved very hones!
and quiet fellows.
Some time after this, I went with the hoat on shore,
(he tide heing up, with the things promised to the men,
to which the captain, at my intercession, caused theii
chests and clothes to he added, which they took, and
were very thankful for; I also encouraged them, hy
telling them, that if it lay in my way to send a vessel
U take them in, I would not forget them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried on hoard
for relics the great goat-skin cap 1 had made, my um-
hrella, and one of my parrots; also I forgot not to
take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain
hy me so long useless that it was grown rusty or tar-
ntshed, and could hardly pass for silver, till it had
heen a little ruhhed and handled; and also the money
I found in the wrack of the Spanish ship.
And thus I left the island the nineteenth of Decem-
Mr, as I found hy the ship's account, in the year 1686,
after I had heen upon it eight-and-twenty years, two
month, and nineteen days: heing delivered from the
second captivity the same day of the month that 1 nnt
made my escape in the harco-longo, from among the
Moors of Sallee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in Eng-
land the eleventh of June, in the year 1687; having
heen thirty and five years ahsent.
When f came to England, I was a perfect stranger
Io all the word, as if I had never heen known there:
my henefactor and faithful steward, whom I had left
in trust with my money, was alive, hut had had great
misfortunes in the world, was hecome a widow the
Second time, and very low in the world: 1 made her
easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I would
give her no trouhle; hut on the contrary, in gratitude
to her former care and faithfulness to me, 1 relieved
her as my little stock would afford, which at that 5
time would indeed allow me to do hut little for hen 5
hut I assured her I would never forget her former <
kindness to me; nor did 1 forget her, when I had su£ 5
ficient to help her; as shall he ohserved in its place. 5
I went down afterwwards into Yorkshire; hut my J
father was dead, and my mother and all the family
extinct; except that I found two sisters, and two' of
the children of one of my hrothers: and as I had
heen long ago given over for dead, there had heen no
provision made for me, so that, in a word, I found
nothing to relieve or assist me ; and thai little money
I had, would not do much for me as to settling in the
world.
I met with one piece of gratitude indeed, which I
did not expect ; and this was that the master of the
ship, whom I had so happily delivered, and hy thei
tame means saved the ship and cargo, having given a
very handsome account to the owners, of the manner
how I had saved the lives of the men, and the ship,
they invited me to meet them and some other mer-
chants concerned, and all together made me a very
handsome compliment upon that sul^ect, and a pre-
sent of almost two hundred pounds sterling.
But after making several reflections upon the cir-
cumstances of my life, and hftv little way this .vould

go towards settting me in the world, I resolved to go
to Lishon, and see if I might not come hy some in-
formation of the state of my plantation in the Brands,
and what was hecome of my partner who, I had
reason to suppose, had some years now given me over
for dead.
With this view I took shipping for Lishon, where I
amved in April following; my man Friday accom-
panying me very honestly in all these ram hlinds, and
proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lishon I found out, hy enquiry,
•nd to my particular satisfaction, my old friend the
captain of the ship, who first took me up at sea, of!
the shore of Africa; he was now grown old and had
left off the sea, having put his son who was far from
a young man, into his ship; and who stilI used thu
Brasil trade. The old man did not know me, and,
mdeed, I hardly knew him; hut I soon hrought my-
self to his rememhrance, when I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of our old ac-
quaintance, 1 mquired, you may he sure, after my
plantation and my partner; the old man told me, he
had not heen in the Brazils for ahout nine years; hut
that he could assure me, that when he came away,
my partner was living; hut the trustees, whom I had
jomed with him, to take cognisance of my part, were
hoth dead ; that, however, he helieved that I would
have a very good account of the improvement of the
plantation ; for that upon the general helief of my
heing cast away and drowned, my trustees had given
in the account of the produce of my part of the plan-
tation, to the procurator fiscal; who had appropriated
it in case I never came to claim it, one third to the
king, and two thirds to the m on as try of St . Augus-
tine, to he expended for the henefit of the poor, and
for the conversion of the Indians to the Catholic
frith; hut that if I appeared, or any one for me, to
claim the inheritance, it would he restored ; only thai
the improvement, or annual production, heing distri
hutcd to charitahle use$. could not he restored: hut
Be assured me, that the steward of the king's revenue
(from lands) aori the provedore or steward of the
monastery, han taken great care all along, that the in-
cumhent, that is to say my partner, gave every year
a faithful account of the produce, of which they re-
ceived duly my moiety.
I aksed him, if he knew to what height of improve-
ment he had hrought the plantation; and whether ha
thought it might he worth looking after; or whether,
on my going thither, I should meet with no ohstruc-
tion to my possessing my just right in the moiety.
He told me, he could no- tell exactly to what de-
gree the plantation was improved ; hut this he knew,
that my partner was growing exceeding rich upon
the enjoy:ng hut one half of it; and that, to the hest
of his rememhrance, he had heard, that the king's
third of my part, which was, it seems, granted away
to some other monastry, or religious house, amounted
ro ahove two hundred inoidores a year; that, as to
my heing restored to my quiet posse ssi en of it, there
fras no question to he made of that, my partner heing
ulive to witness my title, and my name heing also
uorolled in the register of the country. Also he told
ine, thai the survivors of my two trustees were very
lair, honest people, and very wealthy, and he helieved
1 would not only have their assistance for putting me
in possession, hut would find a very considerahle sum
of money in their hands for my account, heing the
produce of the farm, while their fathers held the trust,
and hefore it was given up, as ahove, which, as he
rememhered, was ahout twelve years.
1 shewed myself a little concerned and uneasy at
this account, and inquired of the old captain, how it
came to pass that the trustees should thus dispose of
my effects, when he knew that 1 had made my will,
and had made him the Portuguese captain, my uni-
versal heir, &c.
He told me that was true; hnt that, as there was
no proof of my heing dead, he could not aci as exe-
cutor, until sum* certain account should come of mj
1
death; and that, hesides, he was not willing to inter
meddle with a thing so remote: that it was true, he
had registered my will, and put in his claim; and
could he have given any account of my heing dead or
alive, he would have acted hy procuration, and taken
possession of the ingenio, (so they called the sugar-
house), and had given his son, who was now at the
Bra si Is, order to do it
.
"But," says the old man, "I have one piece of
news to tell you, which perhaps may not he so accept-
ahle to you as the rest; and that is, that helieving you
were lost, and all the world helieving so also, youi
partner and trustees did offer to account to me in
your name, for six or eight of the first years of profit,
which I received; hut there heing at that time," says
he, " great dishursements for increasing the works,
huilding an ingenio, and huying slaves, it did not
amount to near so much as afterwards it produced:
however," says the old man, "I shall give you a true
account of what I have received in all, and how I
have disposed of it."
After a few Hays farther conference with this an-
cient friend, he hrought me an account of the six first
years income of my plantation, signed hy my partner,
and the merchants' trustees, heing always delivered
In goods; viz tohacco in roll, and sugar in chests,
hesides rum, molasses, &c. which is the consequence
of a sugar-work ; and I found hy this account, that
every year the income considerahly increased; hut, as
ahove, the dishursement heing large, the sum at first
was small: however, the old man let me see, that he
was dehtor to me four hundred and seventy moidores
of gold, hesides sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen dou-
hle rolls of tohacco, which were lost in his ship, he
having heen shipwrecked coming home to Lishon,
ahout eleven years after leaving the place.
The good man then hegan to complain of his mis-
fortunes, and how he had heen ohliged to make use
of my money to recover his losses, and huy him a
share in a new ship; '' however, my old friend." says
he, " you shall not want a supply in your necessity;
auH as soon as my son returns, you shall he fully sa-
tisfied"
Upon this he pulls out an olH pouch, and gives me
two hundred Portugal moidores in gold ; and giving
me the writings of his title to the ship which his son
was gone to the Brasils in, of which hp was a quarter
fmrt owner, and his son another, he puts them hoth
n my hands for security of the rest.
1 was too much moved with the honesty and kind-
ness of the poor man, to he ahle to hear this; and re-
memhering what he had done for me, how he had
taken me up at sea, and how generously he had used
me on all occasions, and par icularly how sincere a
friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain weep-
ing at what he said to me: therefore, first I asked him
if his circumstances admitted him to spare so much
monev at that time, and if it would no?straiten him?
He told me he could not say hut it might straiten him
a little ; hut, however, it was my money, and I might
want it more than he.
Every thing the good man said was full of affec-
tion, and I could hardly refrain from tears while he
spoke In short, I took one hundred of the moidores,
an * called for-a pen and ink to give him a receipt
for them ; then I returned him the rest, and told him,
if ever I had possession of the plantation, I would
return the other to him also, as indeed I afterwards
did : and that, as to the hill of sale of his part in his
son's ship, I would not take it hy any means; hut that
if I wanted the money, I found he was honest enough
to pay me; and if I did not, hut came to receive what
he gave me reason to expect, 1 would never have a
penny more from him.
When this was past the old man hegan to ask me
If he should put me in a method to make my claim to
my plantation. I told him, I thought to go over to it
mvself. He said, I might do so if 1 pleased; hut
Ihm ifI did not. there were ways enough to secure
\.n, |
TX> MFE AND AD\TXTURF.S
my rt^ht, and immediately to appropdate the prnfi.t
to my use; and ac there were ships in the river oi
Lishon, just ready .o go away to Brasil, he made m#
enter my name in a puhlic register, with his affidavit
affirming upon oath that I was alive, and that I wa
the same person who took up (he land for the plan!
ing the said plantation at first.
This heing regularly attested hy a notary, and.
procuration affixed, he directed me to send it with 1
letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaint*
ance at the place; and then proposed my staying with
him till an account came of the return.
Never any thing was more honourahle that the pro-
ceedings upon this procuration ; for in less than seven
months I received a large packet from the survivors
of my trustees, the merchants, on whose account I
went to sea, in which were the following particular
letters and papers enclosed.
First, There was the account current of the producei
of my farm, or plantation, from the year when their
fathers had halanced with my old Portugal captain,
heing for six years ; the halance appeared to he 1174
moidores m my favour.
Secondly, There was the account of four yea rs mora
while they kept the effects in their hands, hefore the
government claimed the administration, as heing tho
effects of a person not to he found, which they call
tivil death ; and the halance of this, the value of thai
plantation increasing, amounted to crusadoes, wind.
made 3241 moidores.
Thirdly, There was the prior of the Augustines a«
entmt, who had received the profits for a hove fourtee
years; hut not heing ahle to account for what was dii
posed to the hospital, very honestly declr :«d he ha
872 moidores not distrihuted, which he acknowledge
Doth ing.
There was also a letter of my parntpr's, congratu
la ting me very affect innately upon my heing alive \
giving me an account how the estate was improved,

291
and what it produced a year, with a particular of the
numher of squares, or acres, that it contained ; how
planted, how many slaves there were upon it; and,
making two-and-twenty crosses for hlessings, told me
he had said so many Ave Marias to thank the Blessed
Virgin that 1 was alive ; inviiing me very passionately
to come over and take possession of my own, and in
the mean time to give him orders to whom he should
celiver my effects, if I did not come myself: conclud.
ng with a hearty tender of his friendship, and that ol
his family; and sent me as a present, seven fine leo-
pards' skins, which he had, it seems, received from
Africa hy some other ship which he had sent thither;
and who, it seems, had made a hetter voyage than I.
He sent me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats,
and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so
large as moidores.
By the same fleet my merchant-trustees shipped me
1200 chests cf sugar, BOO rolls of tohacco, and the rest
of the whole account in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end
of Joh was hetter than the heginning. It is impossi-
hle to express the flutterings of my very heart, when
I looked over these letters, and especially when I
found all my wealth ahout me; for as the Brasil ships
come all m fleets, the same ships which hrought my
letters hrought my goods; and the effects were saw
in the Tagus hefore the letters came to my hand. In
a word I turned pale, and grew sick ; and had not
the old man run and fetched me a cordial, I helieve
the sudden surprise of joy had overset nature, and I
had died upon the spot
.
Nay. after that, I continued very ill, and was so
.some hours, till a physician heing sent for, and some-
thing of the real cause of my illness heing known, he
ordered me to he let hlood, after which I had relief,
and grew well; hut I verily helieve, if it had not heen
eased hy the vent given in that manner to the spirits,
I should have died.
1 was now muster, all no a sudden, of ahove fifty
thousand pounds sterling in money, and had an estate,
as I might well call it, in the lirasils, of ahove a thou-
sand pounds a year, as sure as an estate of lands ia
England ; and, :n a word, I was in a condition which
1 scarce knew how to understand, or how to com-
pose myself for the enjoyment of.
The first thing I did was to recompense my origi-
nal tteuefartor, my good old captain, who had heea
first charitattle to me in my distress, kind to me in ths
heginning, and honest to me at the end. I shewed
hint all that was hent me; I told him, that, next to
the providence of Heaven, which disposes all things,
it was owur; to him ; and that it now lay on we to
reward him, which I would do a hundred-fold. So I
first returned to him the hundred moidores 1 had re-
ceived of him ; then 1 sent for a notary, and caused
him to draw up a general release or discharge for the
four hundred and seventy moidores, which he had
acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and firmest
manner possihle; after which 1 caused a procuration
to he drawn, empowering him to he my receiver of
the annual profits of my plantation, and appointing
my partner to account to l:un, and make the returns
hy the usual fleets to him in my name; and a clause
in the end heing a grant of one hundred moidores a
year to him during his life, out of the effects; and
fifty moidores a year to his son after him, for his life.
And thus I requited my old man.
I was now to consider Which way to steer n-y
course next and what to do with the estate that I'ro-
vidence had thus put into my hands ; and, indeed, I
had more care upon my head now than I had in my
silent state of life in the island, where I war.'ed no-
thing hut what I had, and had nothing hut what't
wanted : whereas 1 had no« a great charge upon me
and my husiness was how to secure it: 1 had never s
cave to hide my money in, or a place where it might
lie without lock or key, till it grew moulder and tar-
nished hefore any hody would meddle wtth it . On
ths contrary, I knew not where to put it or whom
to trust with it; my old patron, the captain, indeed
was honest, and that was the only refuge I had.
In the next place, my interest in the Brasils seemed
to summon me tt:ither; hut now I could not tell how
to think of going thither till I had settled my affairas
and left my effects in some safe hands hehind me,
At first I thought of my old friend the widow, who,
I knew, was honest, and would he just to me; hut
then she was in years, and hut poor, and, for aught I
knew, might De in deht; so that, in a word, I had
no way hut to go hack tc England mvself, and takj
my effects with me.
I was some months, however, hefore I resolved
upon this; and therefore as 1 had rewarded the old
captain fully, and to satisfaction, who had heen my
former henefactor, so 1 hegan to think of my poor
widow, whose husband had heen my first henefactor,
and she, while it was in her power, my faithful
steward and instructor. So the first thing f did, I got
a merchant in Lishon to write to his correspondent
In London, not only to pay a hill, hut to go find her
out, and carry her in money a hundred pounds from
me, and to talk with her, and comfort her in her po-
verty, hy telling her she should, if 1 lived, have a
farther supply. At the same time I sent my two sis*
ters in the country, each of them a hundred pounds,
they heing, though not in want, yet not in very good
circumstances; one having heen married, and left a
widow; and the other having, a hushand not so kind
to her as he should he.
But among all my relations or acquaintances, I
could not yet pitch upon one to whom I durst com-
mit the gross of my stock, that I might go away to
the Brasils, and leave things safe hehind me; and
this greatly perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brasils and
have settled myself there, fori was, as it were, natu-
ralized to the place; hut 1 had some little scruple in
inv mind ahout religion, which insensihly drew me
hack, of which 1 shall say more presently. However,
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
k was not religion that kept me from going thither
for the present; and as I had made no scruple of he-
ing openly of the religion of the country, all the while
I was among them, so neither did I yet; only that
now and then having of late thought more of it than
formerly, when I hegan to'think of living and dying
among them, I hegan to regret my having professed
myself a Papist, and thought it might not he the hest
religion to die in.
But, as 1 have said, this was not the main thing
that kept me from going to the Brasils, hut that really
I did not know with whom to leave my effects ho-
hind me; so I resolved at last to go to England with
them, where if I arrived, I concluded I should make
some acquaintance, or find some relations that would
he faithful to me; and accordingly I prepared to go
for England with all my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I
first (the Brasil fleet heing just going away) resolved
to give answers suitahle to the just and faithful ac-
count of things I had from thence; and first to the
prior of St . Augustine I wrote a letter full of thanks
for his just dealings, and the offer of the eight hundred
and seventy-two moidores, which was undisposed of
which I desired might he given, five hundred to the
monastery, and three hundred and seventy-two to the
poor, as the prior should direct, desiring the good
Padre's prayer for me, and the like.
I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees,
with all the acknowledgement that so much justice
and honesty called for; as for sending them any pre-
sent, they were far ahove having any occasion of it.
Lastly, 1 wrote to my partner, acknowledging his
fadustry in the improving the plantation, and his in-
tegrity in increasmg the stock of the works, giving
him instructions for his future government of my part
according to the powers I had left with my old pa-
tron, to whom I desired him to send whatever hecame
due to me, till he should hear from me more particu-
larly , assuring hint, that it was my mtention, not

only to come to him, hut to settle myself there for the
remainder of my life. Tc thir I added a very hand-
some present of some Italian silks for his wife and
two daughters, for such the captain's son informed mo
he had; with two pieces of fine English hroad-cloth,
the hest I could get in Lishon, five pieces of hlack
hays, and some Flanders lace of a good value.
Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and
turned all my effects into good hills of exchange, my
next difficulty was, which way to go to England. 1
had heen accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had
a strange aversion to go to England hy sea at that
time; and though 1 could give no reason for it, yet
the difficulty increased upon me so much, that though
I had once shipped my haggage in order to go, yet I
altered my mind, and that not once, hut two or three
times.
It is true, I had heen very unfortunate hy sea, and
(his might he one of the reasons. But let no man
£ slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases
,J of such moment. Two uf the ships which I had sin-
S gled out Lo go in, I mean more particularly singled
£ out than any other, that is to say, so as in one of them
|| to put my things on hoard, and in the other to hava
J agreed with the captain; I say, two of these ships
miscarried, \iz. one was taken hy the Algerines, and
the other was cast away on the start, near Torhay,
and all the people drowned except three ; so that in
either of those vessels 1 had heen made miserahle,
and in which most, it was hard to say.
Having heen thus harrassed in my thoughts, my old
pilot, to whom I communicated every thing, pressed
me earnestly not to go to sea; hut either to tjjo hy
hnd to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay
to Roc he lie. from whence it was hut an easy and stte
journey hy land to i'aris, and so toCailiaand Dover;
or to go up to Madrid, and so all the way hy land
through France.
In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going
hy sea at all, except from Cailis to Dover, that I

20

resolved to travel all the way hy land; which, atl
was not in haste, and did not value the charge, was
hy much the pleasanter way; and to make it more so,
my old captain hrought an English gentleman, the
son of a merchant in Lishon, who was willing to travel
with me; after which, we picked up two who went
English, and merchants also, and two young Portu-
guese gentlemen, the last going to Paris only: so that
we were in all six of us, and five servants, the two
merchants and the two Portuguese contenting them
selves with one servant hetween two, to save the
charge; and as for me, I got an English sailor to tra-
vel with me as a servant, hesides my man Friday,
who was too much a stranger to he capahle of sup-
plying the place of a servant upon the road.
In this manner 1 set out from Lishon: and out
company heing all very well mounted and armed, we
made a little troop whereof they did me the honour
to call me captain, as well hecause I was the oldest
496 LIFE AND ADVENTURES
the original of the whole journey.
As I have trouhled you with none of my sea jour-
nals, so shall I trouhle you with none of my land
journals. But some adventures that happened to ui
tn this tedious and difficult journey, I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we, heing all of ui
strangers to Spain, were willing to stay some time to
see the court of Spain, and to see what was worth oh,
serving; hut it heing the latter part of the summer,
we hastened away, and set out from Madrid ahout the
middle of Octoher. But when we came to the edga
of Navarre, we were alarmed at several towns on the
way, with an account that so much snow was fallen
on the French side of the mountains, that several tra-
vellers were ohliged to come hack to Pampeluna, aftet
having attempted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so
Indeed; and to me that had heen always used to %
hot climate, and indeed to countries where we could
scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferahle,

aor Indeed was it more painful than it s as surptis*
mg: to come hut ten days hefore out of the Old Gas-
tile wt.ere the weather was not only warm, hut very
not, and unmediately to feel a wind from the Pyre-
nean mountains, so very keen, so severely cold, as ta
he intolerahle, and to endanger henumhing and per-
Uhing of our fingers and toes, was very strange.
Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the
mountains all covered with snow, and felt cold wea-
ther, which he had never seen or felt hefore in his life.
To mend the matter, after we came to Pampeluna,
it continued snowing with so much violence, and so
long, that the people said, wtnter was come hefore its
time; and the roads, which were difficult hefore, were
now quite impassihle: in a word, the snow lay in
some places too thick for us to tiavel; and heing not
hard frozen, as is the case in northern countries, there
was no going without heing in danger of heing huried
alive eveiy step. We staid no less than twenty days
at Pampeluna; when (seeing the winter coining on,
and no likelihood of its heing hetter, for it was the
severest winter all over Europe that had heen known
In many years) I proposed that we should all go away
to Fontarahia, and there take shipping for Bordeaux,
which was a very little voyage.
But while we were considering this there came in
pour French gentlemen, who, having heen stopped on
the French side of the passes as we were on the Spa-
nish, had found out a guide, who traversing the coun-
try near the head of Languedoc, had hrought them
over the mountains, hy such ways, that they were not
'much incommoded with the snow ; and where they
met with snow in any quantity, they said it was fro-
aen hard enough to hear them and their horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us, he would un-
dertake to carry us the same way, with no hazard
from the snow, provided we were armed sufficiently
to protect us from wild heasts: for he said, upon these
great snows it was frequent for some wolves to shew
themselves at ilie foot of the mountains, heing man's
ravenous for want of food, the ground heing covered
with snow We told him we were well enough pre-
pared for such creatures as they were, if he would
ensure us from a kind of two legged wolves, which we
were told we were in most danger from, especially on
the French side ot the mountains.
Fie satisfied ut there was no danger of that kind
in the way that we were to go: so we readily agreed
to follow him ; as did also twelve other gentlemen,
with their servants, some French, some Spanish, who,
as I said, had attempted to go, and were ohliged to
come hack again.
Accordingly we all set out from Pampeluna, with
•ur guide, on the fifteenth of Novemher; and indeed
I was surprised, when, instead of going forward, he
came directly hack with us, on the same road that
we came from Madrid, ahove twenty miles; when
having passed two rivers, and come into the plain
country, we found ourselves in a warm climate again,
where the country was pleasant, and no snow to he
seen; hut on a sudden, turning, to the left, he ap-
proached the mountain another way; and though it is
true, the hillsand the precipices looked dreadfully, yet
he made so many tours, such meanders, and led us
hy such windingways, we insensihly passed the height
of the mountains without heing much encumhered
with the snow; and all on a sudden he showed us the
pleasant fruitful provinces of Languedoc and Gas-
coigne, all green and flourishing; though indeed they
were at a great distance, and we had some rough
way to pass yet.'
We were*a lkde uneasy, however, when we found
ft snowed one whole day and a night, so fast, that we
could not travel; hut he hid us he easy, we should
soon lte past it all: we found, indeed, that we hegan
to descend every day, and to come more north than
hefore; and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.
It was ahout two hours hefore night, when out
goide heing something hefore us, and not just in sight,
2<W
out rushed three monstrous wolves, and after therr: a
hear out of the hollow way.adjoining to a thick wood.
Two of the wolves flew upon the guide, and had h•
heen half a mile hefore us, he had heen devoured in-
deed, hefore we could have helped him; one of thrm
fastened upon his horse and the other attacked the
man with that violence, that he had not time, or not
firesence of mind enough, to draw his pistol, hut hal-
ooed and cried out to us most lustily. My man Fri-
day heing next to me, I hid him ride up, and sea
what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in
sight of the man, he hallooed, as loud as the other,
"O master! O master!" But, like a hold fellow,
rode directly up to the man, and with his pistol shot
the wolf thai attacked him in the head.
ft was happy for the poor man that it was my man
Friday; for he having i,een used to that kind of crea-
ture in his country, had no fear upon him hut went
close up to him, and shot him as ahovr; whereas any
of us would have fired at a farther distance, and have
perhaps either missed the wolf, or endangered shoot'
But it was enough to have terrified a holder man
than I, and indeed it alarmed all ourcompany, when,
with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on hoth
s'.dps the dismallest howlings of wolves, and the noise
redouhled hy the echo of the mountains, ttriU n was
to us as if there had heen a prodigious muhv'ude of
them; and perhaps indeed there was not such a few,
as that we had no cause of apprehensions.
However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other,
that had fastened upon the horse, left hint immediate-
ly, and fled, having happily fastened upon his head,
where the hosses of the hridle had stuck in his teeth,
so that he had not done him much hurt: the man, in-
deed, was most hurt: for the raging creature had hit
him twice, once on the arm, and the other time a l:ttle
ahove his knee; and he was just as it were tumhling
down hy the disorder of the horse, when Friday came
op and shot the wolf.

It it easy to suppose, that at the noise of Friday't
pistol we all mended our pace, and rid up as fast as
the way (which was very difficult) would give us leave,
to see what was the matter. As soon as we came
d ;ar of the trees, which hlinded him hefoie, we saw
plainly what had heen the case, and how Friday had
disengaged the poor guide; though we did not present-
ly discern what kind of creature it was he had killed.
Bui never was a fight managed so hardily, and in
nch a surprising manner, as that which followed he-
tween Friday and the hear, which gave us all (though
at first we were surprised and afraid for him) the
greatest diversion imaginable. As the hear is a heavy,
clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does,
which is swift and light; so he has two particular
ualities, which generally are the rule of his actions:
rst, as to men, who are not his proper prey, I say
not his proper prey, hecause though I can't say what
excessive hunger might do, whic)i was now their case,
the ground hemg all covered witii snow; yet as to
men, he does not usually attempt them, unless they
first attack him ; on the contrary, if you meet him in
the woods, if you don't meddle with him, he won't
meddle with you; yet then you must take care to he
very civil to him, and give him the road; for he is a
very nice gentleman, he won't go a step out of tha
way for a prince; nay, if you are really afraid, your
hest way is to look another way, and keep going on;
for sometimes if you stop, and stand still, and look
steadfastly at him, he takes it for an affront ; and if
y^u throw or toss any thing at him, and it hits him,
ti ugh it were hut a hit of stick as hig a? your finger,
he takes it for an affront, and sets all other husinesa
aside to pursue his revenge; for he will have satisfac-
tion in point of honour, and this is his first quality;
the next is, that if lie he once affronted, he will never
leave you, night or day, till he has his revenge, hut
follow at a eood round rate till he overtakes ynu.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when
we came up to him, he was helping him off from hit

sone; for the man was hoth hurt and frighted, and
indeed the lasl more than the first; when on a sud-
den, we espied the hear come nut of the wood, and a
very monstrous one it wax, the higgest hy far that ever
f saw: we were all a little surprised when we saw
him; hut when Friday saw him, it was easy to ses
ov and courage in the fellow's countenance: OO f
says Friday three times, pointing to him, u O
master! you give me te leave, me shakee te hand
with him, me makee you good laugh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased !" You
fool you," said I, he will eat you up."—'' Eatee 1;
me up ! eatee me up !" says Friday twice over again; 5
'' me eatee him up; me make you good laugh; you 5
all stay here, me shew you good laugh." So down 5
he sits, and gets his hoots oft in a moment, and put?
on a pair of pumps, (as we call the flat shoes they 5
wear) and which he had in his pocket, and gives my 5
other servant his horse, and with his gun away his 5
flew, swift like the wind. f
The hear was walking softly on, and offered to 5
meddle with nohody, till Friday coming pretty near, ]
calls to him, as if the hear could understand him 1
"Hark ye, hark ye." says Friday, '' me spcakee wit 5
you." VVe followed at a distance; for now heing 5
come down to the Gascoigne side of the mountains, <
we were entered a vast great forest, where the coun- 5
try was plain, and pretty open, though many trees in ^
It scattered here and there. 5
Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the hear, 5
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great stone, 5
and throws at him, and hit him just on the head;
hut did him no more harm than if he had thrown it J
•gainst a wall i hut it answered Friday's end; for the
rogue was so void of fear, that he did it purely to
make the hear follow him, and shew us some laugh,
as he called it.
As soon as the hear felt the stone, and saw him, ha
tur's ahout, and comes after him, taking devilish long
ttrt1es. and shuffling along at a strange rate, so as he

would put a horse to a middling gallop. Away run
Friday, and takes his course, as if he ran towards us
for help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the
hear, and deliver my man; though I was angry at
him heartily for hringmg the hear hack upon us, when
he was going ahout his own husmess another way;
and especially I was angry that he had turned the heat
upon us, and then run away; and I called out " You,
dog," said I, "is this your making us laugh ? Coma
away, and take your horse, that we may shoot the
creature." He hears me, and cries out, "No shoot,
no shoot, stand still, you get much laugh :" and as the
nimhle creature ran two feet for the heast's one ha
turned on a sudden, on one side of us, and seeing a
great oak tree, fit for his purpc se, he heckoned us to
follow, and douhling his pace, he gets nimhly up the
tree, laying his gun down upon the ground, at ahout
five or six yards from the hottom of the tree.
The hear soon came to the trees and we followed
at a distance. The first thing he did, he stopped at
the gun, smelt to it, hut let it lie, and up he scramhles
into the tree, climhing like a cat, thougli so monstrous
heavy. 1 was amazed at the folly as I thought it,
of my man, and could not for my life see any thing
to laugh at yet, till seeing the hear get up the tree, wa
all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got
out to the small of a large limh of the tree, and the
hear got ahout half way to him. As soon as the hear
got out to that part where the limh of the tree was
weaker, "Ha," says he to us, *• now you see me
tcachee the hear dance;" so he tails a-jumping, and
shaking the hough, at which the hear hegan to totter,
but stood still, and hegan to look hehind him, to sea
how he should get hack; then indeed we did laugh
heartily. But Friday had not done with him hy a
great deal: when he sees him stand still, he callsout
to hi:n again, as if he had supposed the hear could
speak English, "What you come no farther? Pray
you come farther." So he left jumping and fihakinf
the hough ; and the hear, just as if he understood what
he sa:d, did come a little farther; then he fell a-jump-
ing again, and the hear stopped again.
We thought now was a good time to knock him on
the head and called to Friday to stand still/and we
would shoot the hear; hut he cried out earnestly,
', O pray ! O pray ! no shoot, me shoot hy and then
he would have said hy and hy. However, to shorten
the story, Friday danced so much, and the hear stood
so ticklish, that we had laughing enough indeed, hut
still could not imagine what the fellow would do ; for
first we thought he depended upon shaking the heat
pff; and we found the hear was ton cunning for that
too; for he would not get out far enough to he thrown
down, hut clings fast with his great hroad claws and
feet, so that we could not imagine what would he the
eud of it, and where the jest would he at last.
But Friday puts us out of douht quickly ; for seeing
the hear cling fast to the hough, and that he would
not he persuaded to come any farther ; " Well, well,"
said Friday, "you no come farther, me go, me go;
you no come to me, me come to you and upon thii
he goes out to the smallest end of the hough, where
it would hend with his weight, and gently lets himself
down hy it, sliding down the hough, till he came
near enough to jump down on his feet: and away he
ran to his gun, takes it up, and stands still.
"Well," said I to him, "Fridav, what will you
do now? Why don't you shoot hin,?—" No shoot,"
says Friday, "no yet; me shoot now me no kill;
me stay, give you one more laugh;" and indeed so
he did, as you will see presently ; for when the hear
saw his en -my gone, he come hack from the hough
where he stood, hut did it mighty leisurely, looking
hehind him every step, and coming hackward till he
Eot into the hody of the tree; then with the same
inder end foremost, he came down the tree, grasping
it with his claws, and moving one foot at a tune,
very leisurely. At this juncture, and just hefc;r hs
eouki set his hind feet upon the ground, r riday st-pj*d

ctose to him, clapped the muzzle of his piece into hla
ear, and shot him as dead as a stone.
Then the rogue turned ahout to see if we did not
laugh; and when he saw we were pleased hy oui
looks, he falls a-laughing himself very loud ; " So ws
kill oear in my country, says Friday. "So you kill
them?" said f; "why, you have no guns."—" No."
tnys he, " no guns, hut shoot great much long arrow.*
This was, indeed, a good diversion to us; hut wo
were still in a wild place, and our guide very much
hurt, and what to do we hardly knew: the howling
of wolves ran much in my head; and indeed except
the noise 1 once heard on the shore of Africa, of which
I have said something already, I never heard any
thing that filled me with so much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us
off, or else, as Friday would have had us, we should
certainly have taken the skin of this monstrous crea-
ture off, which was worth saving; hut we had three
leagues to go, and our guide hastened us; so we left
him, and went forward on our journey.
The ground was still covered with snow, though
not so deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and
the ravenous creatures,.as we heard afterwards, were
come down into the forest and plain country, pressed
hy hunger, to seek for food, and had done a great
deal of mischief in the villages, where they surprised
the country-people, killed a great many of their sheep
and horses, and some people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, of which our
guide told us, if there were any more wolves in the
country, we should find them there; and this was a
small plain, surrounded with woods on every side,
and a long narrow defile or lane, which we were to
pass to get through the wood; and then we should
come to the village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of sunset, when we en-
tered the first wood; and a little after sunset, when
we came into the plain. We met with nothing in tho
first wood, except that in a little plain within tho
wood, which was not ahove two furlongs over, we
saw five great wolves cross the road, full speed ona
after another, as if they had heen in chase of soma
prey, and had it in view; they took no notice of ns,
and were gone and out of fight in a few moments.
Upon this our guide, who, hy the way, was a
wretched faint-hearted fellow, hade us keep m a ready
posture; for he helieved there were no re wolvea
a-com ing.
We kept our arms ready, and our eyes ahout us;
hut we saw no more wolves till we came through that
wood which was hear half a league, and entered the
plain: as soon as we came into the plain, we had oc-
casion enough to look ahout us. The first ohject we
met with was a dead horse, that is to say a poor horse
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dosen of
them at work; we could not say rating of him, hut
picking of his hones rather; for they had eaten up all
the flesh hefore.
We did not think fit to disturh them at their feast,
neither did they take much notice of us; Friday would
have let fly at them, hut I would not suffer him hy
any means; for I found we were like to have mora
husiness upon ourhands than we were aware of We
were not naif gone over the plain, hut we hegan tn
hear the wolves howl in the woods, on our left, in a
frightful manner; and presently after we saw ahom a
hundred coming on directly towards us, all in a hody,
and most of th*m in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up hy experienced officers. I scarce knew in
what manner to receive them ; hut found to draw our-
selves in a close line was the only way ; so we formed
In a moment; hut, that we might not have too much
interval, 1 ordered, that only every other man should
fire; and that the others, who had not fired, should
stand ready to give them a second volley immediate-
ly if they continued to advance upon us; and that
then those who had fired at first, should not nrete .d
to load their fusils again, hut stand ready, with every
one * pistol, for we were all armed with a fusil and a
pair of pistols each man; so we were, hy this method,
ahle to fire six vollies, half of us at a time; however,
at present we had no necessity ; for, upon firing the
first volley, the enemy made a full stop, heing terri-
fied, as well with the noise as with the fire; four of
them heing shot in the head, dropped; several othert
wwe wounded, and went hleeding off, as we could soft
'iy the snow. I found they stopped, hut did not im
mediately retreat; whereupon, rememhering that
had heen told that the fiercest creatures were terrified
at the voice of a man, I caused all our company to
halloo as loud as we could, and r found the notion
not altogether mistaken ; for upon our shout, they he-
gan to retire, and turn ahout; then I ordered a second
volley to he fired in their rear, which put them to tha
gallop, and away they went to the woods.
This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again, and
that we might lose no time, we kept doing; hut we
had hut little more than loaded our fusils, and put our-
selves into a readiness, when we heard a terrihle
noise in the same wood on our left; only that it was
farther onward the same way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the night hegan to
oe dusky, which made it the worse on our side; hut,
the noise increasing, we could easily perceive that it
wasthe howling and yellmg of those hellish creatures;
and, on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops of
wolves on our left, one hehind us,ann*rne on our front,
so that we seemed to he surrounded with them ; how-
ever, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our way
forward, as fast as we could make our horses go,
which, the way heing very rough, was only a good
large trot; and in this manner we only came in view
of the entrance of the wood through which we wens
to pass at the farther side of the plain; hut we wen
greatly surprised, when, coming nearthe lane,or pass,
we saw a confused numher of wolves standing just at
uV entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, w•
heard the noise of a gun; and, looking that way, oui
rushed a horse, with a saddle and a hr:dle on him,
flying like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves
after him full speed : indeed the horse had the heels
ol titem; hut as we supposed that he could not hold
it at that rate, we douhted not hut they would get up
with him at last; and no question hut they did.
Here we had a most horrihle sight; for, ruling up
to the entrance where the horse came out, we found
the carcass of another horse, and of two men devour-
ed hy these raveuous creatures, and of one the man
was no douht the same whom we heard fire a sun,
lor there lay a gun just hy him fired off: hut as to the
man, his head, and the upper part of his hody, were
eaten up.
This filled us with honor, and we knew not what
course to take; hut the creatures resolved us soon, for
they gathered ahout us presently, in hopes of prey;
aml I verily helieve there were three hundred of them.
It happened very much to our advantage, that at the
entrance into the wood, hut a little way from it, there
lay some large timher trees, which had heen cut down
the summer hefore, and I supixwe lay there for car-
riase: I drew my little troop in among these trees,
and placing ourselves in a line hehind one long tree, I
advised them all toalight, and keeping that tree hefore
os for a hreastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three
fronts, enclosing our horses in the centre.
Wc did no, and it was well we did; for never was
a more furious charge than the creatines made upon
us in this place; they came on us with a growling kind
of a noise, and mounted. the piece of timher (which, as
I said, was our hreastwork.) as if they were only rush-
ing upon their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems,
was principally occasioned hy their seeing our horses
hehind us, which was the prey they aimed at. I or-
dered our men to f:re as hefore, every man : awl they
took their aim so sure, that indeed they killed several
of the wolves at the firsi volley; hut there was a ne-
cessity tc keep a continual firing, for thev came oa
like devils, those t-ehind pushing on those betore.
When we had fired our second volley of fusils, w*
thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they would
have gone off, hut it was hut a moment, for others
came forward again; so we fired our vollies of pis-
tols; and I helieve in these four firings we killed se-
venteen or eighteen of them, ami lamed twice as ma-
ny; yet they came on again
I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily ; so 1
called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was
hetter employed ; for, with the greatest dexterity ima-
ginahle, he charged my fusil and his own, whu# we
wore engaged; hut, as I said, I called my other man;
and gviving him a horn of powder, I hade him lay a
train all along the piece cf timher, and let it he a large
train; he did so, and had hut time to get away, when
the wolves came up to it, and some were got up upon
it; when I, snapping an uncharged pistol close to the
powder, set it on fire; and those that were upon th•
timher were scorched with it, and six or seven of them
fell, or rather jumped in among us, with the force and
fright of the fire: we dispatched these in an instant,
and the rest were so frighted with the light, which th*
night, for now it was verv near dark made more ter-
rihle, that they drew hack a little.
Upon which I ordered our last pistols to he fired
off m one volley, and after that we gave a shout i
upon this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied imme-
diately upon near twenty lame ones, which we found
struggling on the ground, and fell a cutting them with
our swords which answered our expectation ; forth•
crying aud howling they made were hetter understood
hy their fellows; so that the* Bed and left us.
We had, first and last, killed ahout three score of
them; and had it heen daylight, we had killed many
more. The field of hattle heing thus cleared, we mada
forward again; for we had still near a league to go.
We heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in th•
woods as we went, several times ; and sometimes we
fancied we saw some of them, hut the snow dazzling
our eves, we were not certain; so in ahout an hour
more we came to the town, where we were to lodge,
which we found in a terrihle fright, and all in arms-,
for, it seems, that, the night hefore, the wolves and
some hears had hroken into that village, and put them
in a terrihle fright; and they were ohliged to keep
guard night and day, hut especially in the night, to
preserve their cattle, and indeed their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his
limhs so swelled with the rankling of his two wo mils,
that he could go no farther; so we were ohliged to
take a new guide there, and go toTholouse, where we
found a warm climate, a fruitful pleasant country, and
no snow, no wolves, or any thing like them; hut
when we told our story at Tholuose, they told us it
was nothing hut what was ordinary in the great forest
at the foot of the mountains, especially when the snow
lay on the ground ; hut they inquired much what kmd
of a guide we had gotten, that-would venture to hring
us that way in such a severe season; and told us, it
wa• very much we were not all devoured. YYJien we
told them how we placed ourselves, and the horses in
the middle, they htamed us exceedingly, and told us
it was fifty to one hut we had heen all destroyed; for
it was the sight of the horses that made the wolves so
furious, seeing their prey; and that at other times the)
are really afraid of a gun; hut they heing excessive
hungry, and raging on that account, the eagerness to
cone at the horses had made them senseless of dan-
ger ; and that if we had not hy the continued fire, and
at last hy the stratagem of the train of power, mas-
tered them, it had heen great odds hut that we had
heen torn to pieces; whereas, had we heen content to
have sat still on horsehack, and fired as horsemen,
they would not have taken the horses so much for their
own, when men were on their hacks, as otherwise:
and withal they told us, that at last, if we had stood
all together, and left our horses, they would have heen
so eager to have devoured them, that we might hava
come off safe, especially having our fire-arms in our
hands, and heing so many m numher.
For my part, I was never so sensihle of Hanger in
my life; for seeing ahove three hundred devils coma
roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and having
nothing to shelter us, or retreat to, I give myself over
for Inst; and as it was, I helieve, I shall never care to
cross those mountains again; I think I would much
rather go a thousand leagues hy sea, though I ueie
sure to meet with a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my
passage through France; nothing hut what other tra-
vellers have given an account of, with much more ad-
vantage than I can. I travelled from Tholouse to
Paris, and without any considerahle stay came to
Catais, and landed safe at Dover, the Nth of Janu-
ary, after having had a seve re cold season to travel in.
1 was now come to the, centre of my travels, and
had in a little time all my new-discovered estate safe
ahout me, the hills of exchange, which I hrough*
with me, having heen very currently paid.
My principal guide and privy-counsellor was my
fod ancient widow, who, in gratitude for the money
had sent her, thought no pains too much, or care too
great, to employ for me; and I trusted her so entirely
with every thing, that I was perfectly easy as to tha
security of my effects: and indeed I was very happy
from my heginning, and now to the end, in the un-
spotted mtegrity of this good gentlewoman.
And now I hegan lo think of leaving rny effects
with this woman, and setting out for Lishon, and so to
the lirasils But now another scrunle came in tho
way, and that was religion, for as I had entertained
some douhts ahout the Roman religion, even while I
was ahroad, especially in my state of solitude; 90 I
knew there was no going to the Brasils for me, much
less going to settle there, unless I resolved to emhrace
the Roman Catholic religion, without any reserve;
except on the other hand I resolved to Iw a sacrifice to
my principles, he a martyr for religion, and die in the
Inquisition: so I resolved to stay at home, and, if I
•ould find means for it, to dispose of my plantation
f
To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lishon,
who in return gave me notice, that he could easily
dispose of it there: hut that if I thought fit to give
him leave to offer it in my name to the two mei-
ehants, the survivors of my trustees, who lived in ths
Brasils, who must fully understand the value of it,
who lived just upon the spot, and who 1 knew to he
very rich, so that he helieved they would he fond ot
huying it; he did not douht, hut I should make 4 or
6000 pieces of eight the more of it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer h
to them, and he did so; and in ahout eight months
more, the ship heing then returned, he sent me an ac-
count, that they had accepted the offer, and had re-
mitted 33,000 pieces of eight to a correspondent of
theirs at Lishon, to pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the
form which they sent from Lishon, and sent it to my
old man, who scut me the hills of exchange for 32,800
pieces of eight for the estate; reserving the payment
of 100 moidares a year, to him (the old man) during
his life, and 50 moidores afterwards to his son Mr his
life, which I had promised them ; and which the plan-
tation was to make good as a rent-charge. Ana thus
I have given the first part of a life of fortune and ad-
venture, a life of Providence's chequer-work, and of
variety which the world will seldom he ahle to shew
the like of: heginning foolishly, hut closing much
more happily than any part of it ever gave me lean
so much as to hope for.
Any one would think, that in this state of compli-
cated good fortune, I was past running any more
hazard*, and so indeed I hat) heen, if other circum-
stances nad concurred: hut I was inured to a wan-
dering life, had no family, nor many relations; nor
however rich, had I contracted much acquaintance t
and though I had sold my estate in the Brasils, yet I
could not keep that country out of my head, and hail
a great mind to he upon the wing again : especially I
'1 uot resist the strong inclination I had to see my


21
Island, and to know if the poor Spaniards were In heing
there ; and how the rogues I left there had used them.
My true friend the widow earnestly dissuaded m«
from it, and so far prevailed with me, that almost fof
seven years she prevented my running ahroad; dur,
ing which time I took my two nephews, the childm
of one of my hrothers, into my care : the eldest hav-
ing something of his own, I hred up as a gentleman,
and gave him a settlement of some addition to hia
detate, after my decease; the other I put out to a cap-
tain of a ship; and after five years, finding him a sen-
sihle, hold, enterprising young fellow, I put him into
a good ship, and sent him to sea: and this young fel-
low afterwards drew me in, as old as i was, to far-
ther adventures myself.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here : for,
first of all, I married, and that not either to my dis-
advantage or dissatisfaction; and had three children,
two sons and one daughter: hut my wife dying, at d
my nephew coming home with good success from a
voyage to Spain, my inclination to go ahroad, and his
importunity, prevailed, and engaged me to go in his
ship as a private trader to the East Indies. This was
in the year 1G94.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the
Island, saw my successors the Spaniards, had the whole
story of their lives, and of the villians I left there;
how at first they insulted the poor Spaniards, how they
afterwards agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and
how at last the Spaniards were ohliged to use violence
with them; how they were suhjectedtothe Spaniards;
how honestly the Spaniards used them ; an history, it
it were entered into, as full of variety and wondeiful
accidents as my own part: particularly also as to their
hattles with theCarrinheans, who landed several times
upon the island, and as tothe improvement they made
upon the island itself; and how five of them made an
attempt upon the main land, and hrought away eleven
men and five women prisoners ; hy which, at my com-
mg, 1 found ahout twenty vnung children on the island-
OF ROBINSON CRUSOfi.
flies of all necessary things, and particularly of anna,
riwder, shot, clothes, toots, and two workmen, which
brought from England with me; viz. a carpenter
and a smith.
Besides this, I shared the lands into parts with the m,
reserved to myself the property of the whole, hut
gave them such parts respectively, as they agreed on;
and, having settled all things with them, and engaged
them not to leave the place, 1 left them there.
From thence 1 touched at the Brasils, from whence
I sent a hark, which I hought there, with more peo-
ple, to the island; and in it, hesides other supplies, I
sent seven women, heing such as 1 found proper for
service, or for wives to such as would take them. As
to the Englishmen, I promised them to send them
some women from England, with a good cargo ot
necessaries, if they would apply themselves to plant-
ing; which I afterwards could not perform : the fel-
lows proved very honest ami diligent, after they were
mastered, and had their properties set apart for the m.
I sent them also from the Brazils five cows, three of
them heing hig with calf, some sheep, and some hogs,
which, when I came again, were considerahly in-
creased.
But all these things, with an account how three
hundred Carrihees came and invaded them, and ruin-
ed their plantations, and how they fought with that
whole numher twice, and were at first defeated and
one of them killed ; hut at last a storm destroying their
enemies' canoes, they famished or destroyed almost all
the rest, and renewed and recovered the possession of
their plantation, and still lived upon the island :—
All these things, with some very surprising incidents
in some new adventures of my own for ten years more,
1 may, perhaps, give a farther account of hereVuw,
THK
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
ROB!NSON CRUSOE
BY DANIEL DE FOE.
TWO VOLUMES IS OBB.
VOL. n.
PHILADELPHIA:
PUBLISHED BY J. B. SMITH ft CO.
Mo. 610 CHESTNUT STREET.
1 859.
&OBZNSON ORUSOS.

THAT homely proverh used on bo many occasion* m
England, viz. "That what is hred in the hone wiB
not go out of the flesh," was never more verified than
in the story of my Life. Anyone would think, that
after thirty-five years affliction, and a variety of un-
happy circumstances, which few men, if any, ever,
went through hefore, and after near seven years of
peace and enjoyment in the fulness of al1 things;
grown old, and when, if ever, it might he allowed me
to have had experience of every state of middle life,
and to know which was most adapted to make a man
completely happy ; I say, after all this, any one would
have thought that the native propensity to ramhling,
which f gave an account of in my first setting out into
the world to have heen to predominant in my thought,
should he worn out, the volatile part he fully evacu-
ated, or at least condensed, and I might at sixty-one
years of age have heen a little inclined to stay at home,
and have done venturing life and fortune any more.
Nay farther, the common motive of foreign adven-
tures was taken away m mw; tor I had no fortune to
make, I had nothing to seek • if 1 had gained ten
thousand pounds, I had heen no richer; for I had
already sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave
it to, and that I had was visihly increasing; for hav-
ing no great family, I could not spend the income of
what I had, unless I would set up for an expensive
way of living, such as a great family, servants, equi-
page, gaiety, and the like, which were things 1 ha 1 no
notion of, or inclination to; so that I had nothing in-
deed to do, hut to sit still, and fully enjoy what I had
got, and see it increase dailv unon my hands.
Vet all these things had no effect upon me, or at
least not enough to resist the strong inclination I had
to go ahroad agaiir. tvhich hung ahout me like a chro-
nical distemper; particularly the desire of seeing an
new plantauon in the island, and the colony 1 lefl
there, run in my head continually. I dreamed of i
all night, and my imagination run upon it all day; i
was uppermost m all my thoughts, and my faucy
worked so steadily and stiongly upon it, that! talked
of it in my sleep: in short, nothmg could remove i
out of my mind; it even hroke so violently into aft
my discourses, that it made my conversation tiresome
for 1 could talk of nothing else, all my discourse run
into it, even to impertinence, and I saw it myself.
I have often heard persons of good judgment say,
that all the stir people make in the world ahout ghosti
and apparitions, is owing to the strength of imagina-
tion, and the powerful operation of fancy in theii
minds; that there is no such thing as a spirit appear-
ing, or a ghost walking, and the like; that people's
poring affectionately upon the past conversation oi
Uteir decease I friends so realizing it to them, that they
are capahle of fancying upon some extraordinary cir-
cumstances that they see them, talk to them, and are
answered hy them, when, in truth, there is nothing
hut shadow and vapour in the thing; and they really
know nothing of the matter.
For my part. I know not to this hour whether there
are any such things as real apparitions, spectres, or
walking of people after they are dead, or whether
there is any thing of the stories they tell us of that
kind, more than the product of vapours, sick minds,
and wandering fancies. But this 1 know, that my
magination worked up to such a height, and hrough
me into such excess of vapours, or what else I may
call it, that 1 actually supposed myself often timee
upon the spot, at my old castle hehmd the trees, saw
my old Spaniard, Friday's father, and the reprohate
sailors whom I left upon the island; nay, I fancied I
talked with them, and looked at them so steadily,
though I was hroad awake, as at persons just hefore
me; and this I did till I often frightened myself with
the images my fancy represented to me: one time in
my sleep I had the villany of the thtee pirate sailors so
lively related to me, hy the first Spamard and Fridayss
father, that it was surprising; thes told me how they
harharously attempted to murder all the Spaniards,
and that they set fire to the provisions they had laid
up, on purpose to distress and starve them; things tha
1 had never heard uf, and that were yet all of them
true in fact; hut it was so warm in my imagination,
and so realized to me, that to the hour I saw them, I
could not he persuaded hut that it was or would he
true; also how I resented it when the Spaniard com-
plained to mc, and how I hrought them to justice,
tried them hefore me, and ordered them all three to he
hanged. What there was really in this, shall he seen
in its place; for however I came to form such things
in my dream, and what secret converse of spirits hv
r- cted it, yet there was, I say, very much of it true-
own that tnis dream had nothing literally and speci-
fically true; hut the general part was so true, tto hase
and villanous hehaviour of these three hardened
rogues wassuch,and had heen so much worse than all
I can descrihe, that the dream had too much simili-
tude of the fact; aml as I would afterwards hare
funished them severely, so if I had hanged them all,
had heen much in the right, and should have heen
justifiahle hoth hy the laws of God and man.
But to return to my story.—In this kind of temper
I had lived some years, I had no enjovment of my
life, no pleasant hours, no agreeahle diverston, hut
what had something or other of this in it; so that my
wife, who saw my mind so wholly hent upon it, told
me very seriously one night, that she helieved there
was some secret powerful impulse of Providence
upon me, which had determined me to go thither
sgain; and that she found nothing hindered my going,
hut my heing engaged to a wife and children. She
told me, that it was true she could not think of part
tag with me; hut as she was assured, that if she was
flead it would he the first thing 1 would do; so, as it
teemed to her that the titing was determined ahove,
She would not he the only ohstruction ; for if I thought
fit and resolved to go Here she found me very in
tent upon her words, and that I looked very earnestly
at her ; so that it a little disordered her, and she stop,
ped. I asked her why she did not go on, and say out
what she was going to say? But I perceived her heart
was too full, and some tears stood in her eyes; "Speak
out, my dear," said I; " are you willing 1 should go?"
"No," says she, very affectionately, '' I am far from
willing: hut if you are resolved to go," says she,
** and rather than I will he the only hindrance, I will
co with you; for though I think it a preposterous thing
for one of your years, and in your condition, yet if it
must he," said she again, weeping, "1 won't leave
you; for if it he of Heaven, you must do it; there if
no resisting it; and if Heaven makes it your duty to
go, he will also make it mina to go with you, or
otherwise dispose of me, that I may not ohstruct it."
This affectionate hehaviour of ray wife hrought me
a little out of the vapours, and I hegan to consider
what I was doing; 1 corrected my wandering fancy,
and hegan to argue with myself sedately, what husi-
ness I had, after threescore years, and after such a life
of tedious suffering and disasters, and closed in so
happy and easy a manner, I say, what husiness had I
to rush into new hazards, and put myself upon adven-
tures, fit only for youth and poverty to run into?
With those thoughts, I considered my new engage,
ment; that I had a wife, one child horn, and my wiA
then great with child of another; that 1 had all the
world could give me, and had no need to seek hazards
for gain; that 1 was declining in years, and ought to
think rather of leaving what 1 had gained, than of
seeking to increase it; that as to what my wife had
•aid, of its heing an impulse from Heaven, and that it
should he my duty to go, 1 had nc notion of that; so
after many of these cogitations, 1 struggled with the
power of my imagination, reasoned myself out of It,
as I helieve people may alustys do in like extsts^
\f they will; and, in a word, I conquered it; conk-
posed myself with such arguments as occurred to my
thoughts, and which my present condition furnished
me plentifully with; and particularly, as the moss
effectual method, I resolved to divert myself wius
other things, and to engage in some husiness that might
effectually tie me up from any more excursions of th't
kind; for I found the thing return upon me chiefly
when I was idle, had nothing to do, or any thing cC
moment immediately hefore me.
To this purpose I nought a little farm in the county
of Bedford, and resolved to remove myself thither. 1
had a little convenient house upon :t- and the land
ahout it I found was capahle of great improvement,
and that it was many ways suited to my tnclination,
which delighted in cultivating, managing, planting,
snd improving of land; and particularly, heing an
inland country, I was removed from conversing
among ships, sailors, and things relating to the remota
part of the world.
In a word, I went down to ray farm, settled my
family, hought me ploughs, harrows, a cart, waggon,
horses, cows, sheep; and setting seriously to work,
hecame in one half year a mere country gentleman;
my thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my
servants, cultivating the grourd, enclosing, planting,
&c.; and I lived, as I thought, the most agreeahle lifs
that nature was capahle of directing, or that a man
always hred to misfortunes was capahle of heing re-
treated to. ,
I farmed upon my own land, I had no rent to pay,
was limited hy no articles; I could pull up or cut
down as I pleased; what I planted was for myself,
and what I unproved, was for my family; and having
thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not the
least discomfort in any part of my life, as to this
world. Now I thought indeed, that I enjoyed tha
middle state of life which my father so earnestly re-
commended to me, a kind of heavenly life, something
like what is descrihed hy the poet upon the suhject o?
a country life:
Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pains, and youth no snare.
But in the middle of all this felicity, one hlow from
unforeseen Providence unhinged me at once; and no
Only made a hreach upon me, inevitahly and incurahle
hut drove me, hy its consequence, upon a deep relaps
into the wandering disposition, which, as 1 may say
heing horn in my very hlood, soon recovered its hold
of me, and, like the returns of a violent distemper,
came on with an irresistihle force upon me ; so that
nothing could make any more impression upon roe.
This hlow was the loss of my wife.
It is not my husiness here to write an elegy upon
my wife, to give n character of her particular virtues,
and make my court to the sex hy the flattery of a
funeral sermon. She was, in a few words, the stay of
all my affairs, the centre of all my enterprises, the en-
gine that hy her prudence reduced me to that happy
compass I was m, from the most extravagant and
ruinous project that fluttered in my head as ahove;
and did more to guide my ramhling genuis, than a
mother's tears, a father's instructions, a friend's coun-
sel, or all my own reasoning powers could do. 1 was
happy in listening to her tears, and in heing moved
hy her entreaties, and to the last degree desolate and
dislocated in the world hy the loss of her
When she was gone the world looked awkwardly
round me, I was as much a stranger in it in my
thoughts as I was in the Brasils when I went first on
shore there; and as much alone, except as to the assist?
ance of servants, as I was in my island. I knew net*
ther what to do, or what not to do; I saw the world
husy round me, one part lahouring for hread, and the
other part squandering in vile excess or empty plea-
sures equally miserahle, hecause the end they propos-
ed still fled from them ; for the men of pleasure every
day surfeited of their vice, and heaped up work for
sorrow and repentance, and the men of lahour spent
their strength in daily stragglings for hread to main-
tain the vital strength they lahoured with; so living in
a daily circulation of sorrow, living hut to work, and
working hut to live, as if daily hread were the only
end of a wearisome life, and a wearisome life the only
occasion of daily hread. v
This put mc in mind of the life I lived in my king*
dom the island, where I suffered no more corn tr
grow, hecause 1 did not want it; and hred no more
goats, hecause I had no more use for them ; where the
money lay in the drawer till itgrewmildewed,and had
scarce the favour to he looked upon in twenty years.
All these things, had I improved them as I ought ID
have done, and as reason and religion had dictated,to
me, would have taught me to search farther than hu-
man enjoyments for a full felicity and that there was
something which certainly was the reason and end of
life,superiortoall these thmgs, and which waseither to
he possessed,or at least hoped for.on this side the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone, I was like a ship
without a pilot, that could only run hefore the wind i
my thoughts run all away again into the old affair, my
head was quite turned with the whimsies of foreign
adventures; and all the pleasinginnocent amusementj
of my farm and my garden, my cattle and my family,
,which hefore entirely possessed me, were nothing to
me, had no relish, and were like music to one that
has no car, or food to one that has no taste: in a
word, I resolved to leave off housekeeping, let my
farm and return to London; and in a few month*
after I did so.
When I came to London 1 was still as uneasy at
hefore; I had no relish to the place, no employment
in it, nothing to do hut to saunter ahout like an idle
person, of whom it may he said, he is perfectly useless
m God's creation, and it is not one farthing matter to
the rest of his kind whether he he dead or alive. Thia
also was the thing which of all circumstances of lift
VOL. IL
was the most my aversion, who had heen al1 my days
used to an active life ; and I would often say to myself,
•* A state of idleness is the very dregs of life and
Indeed I thought I was much more suitahly employed
when I was twenty-six days making a deal hoard.
It was now the heginning of the year 1893, when
my nephew, whom, as I have ohserved hefore, I had
hrought up to the sea, and had made him commandei
of a ship, was come home from a short voyage to
Bilhoa, heing the first he had made; he came to me,
and told me that some merchants of his acquaintance
had heen proposing to him to go a voyage for them to
the East Indies and to China, as private traders;
"And now, uncle," says he, " if you will go to sea
with me, I'll engage to land you upon your old hahi-
tation in the island, for we are to touch at theBrasils."
Nothing can he a greater demonstration of a future
state, and of the existence of an invisihle world, than
the concurrence of second causes with the ideas of
things which we form in our minds, perfectly reserv-
ed, and not communicated to any in the world.
My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of
wandering was returned upon me, and I knew nothing
of what he had in his thoughts to tay, when that very
morning, hefore he came to me, I had, in a great deal
of confusion of thought, and revolving every part of
my circumstances in my mind.come to this resolution, •
viz. that I would go to Lishon and consult with mv
old nea-captain ; and so, if it was rational and practi-
cahle, I would go and see the island again, and see
what was hecome of my people there. I had pleased
myself also with the thoughts of peopling the place,
end carrying inhahitants from hence, getting a patent
for the possession, and I know not what; when in the
middle of all this, in comes my nephew, as I have
said, with his project of carrying me ihither, in hit
wav to the East Indfos.
f paused awhile at his words, and looking steadily
at him, " What devil," said I, " sent you of this un»
lucky errani?" My nephew startled, as if he had heea
frighted at first; hut perceiving I was not much dis-
pleased with the proposal, he recovered himself. "I
nope it may not he an unlucky proposal, Sir/* says he;
•' I dare say you would he pleased to see your new co-
lony there, where you once reigned with more felicity
than most of your hrother-monarchs in the world."
In a wotd, the scheme hit so exactly with my tem*
per, that is to say, with the prepossession I was under,
and of which I have said so much, that 1 told him, in
a few words, if he agreed with the merchants I would
go with him: hut 1 told him I would not promise to
go any farther than my own island. "Why, sir,"
says he, "you don't want to he left there again, 1
hope ?"—" Why," said I, "can you not take me up
again in your return?" He told me, it could not he
possihle that the merchants would allow him to come
that way with aloaden ship of such value, it heing
a month's sail out of his way, and might he three of
four: "Besides, Sir, if I should miscarry," said he,
"and not return ut all, then you would he just reduced
to the condition you were in hefore."
This was very rational; hut we hoth found out a
remedy for it, which was to carry a framed sloop on
hoard the ship, which heing taken in pieces and ship-
ped on hoard the ship, might, hy the help of some
carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, he set
up again in the island, and finished fit to go to sea in
a few days.
I was not long resolving; for indeed the importu
nities of my nephew joined in so effectually with my
inclination, that nothing could oppose me: on the
other hand, my wife heing dead, I had nohody con-
cerned themselves so much for me, as to persuade mo
one way or otlier, except my ancient good friend tho
widow, who earnestly struggled with me to consider
my years, my easy circumstances, and the needless
hazard of a long voyage; and, ahove all, my young
children : hut it was to no purpose; I had an irre-
sistihle desire to the voyage; and I told her I thought
there was something so uncommon in the impressions


X had upon my mind for the voyage, that it would b•
ft kind of resisting Providence, if I should attempt to
stay at home; after which she ceased her expostula-
tions, and joined with me, not only in making pro-
vision for my voyage, hut also in settling my family
aifairs in my ahsence, and providing for the education
of my children.
In order to this I made my will, and settled the
estate I had in such a manner for my children, and
placed in such hands, that I was perfectly easy and
satisfied they would have justice done them, whatevei
might hefal me; and for their education, I left it
wholly to my widow, with a sufficient maintenance tn
herself for her care : all which she richly deserved;
for no mother could have taken more care in their
education, or understood it hetter; and as she lived
till I came home, I also lived to thank her for it.
My nephew was ready to sail ahout the heginning
of January 1694-5, and I with my man Friday went
on hoard in the Downs the 8th, having, hesides that
sloop which I mentioned ahove, a very considerahle
cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my colony,
which if I did not find in good condition, I resolved
to leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I
purposed to place there as inhahitants, or at least to
set on work there upon my own account while I
stayed, and either to leave them there, or carry ihem
forward as they should appear willing; particularly,
1 carried two carpenters, a smith, and a very handy,
ingenious fellow, who was a cooper hy trade, hut was
•iso a general mechanic; for he was dexterous at
making wheels, and hand-mills to grind corn, was a
good turner, and a good potmaker; he also made any
thing that was proper to make of earth, or of wood;
in a word, we called him our Jack of all Trades.
With these I carried a tailor, who had offered him-
self to go passenger to the East Indies with my ne-
phew, hut afterwards consented to stay on our new
plantation, and proved a most necessary handy fellow
13
as could he desired, in many othei husmesses hesides
that of this trade; for as I ohserved formerly, neces-
sity arms us for all employments.
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for 1 have not
kept an account of the particulars, consisted of a suffi-
cient quantity of linen, and some thin English stuffs
for clothing the Spaniards that I expected to find then,
and enough of them as hy. my calculation might com*
Ihrtahly supply them for seven years: if I rememher
right, the materials which I carried for clothing them,
with gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, and all such things
as they could want for wearing, amounted to ahove
two hundred pounds, including some heds, hedding,
and household-stuff, particularly kitchen utensils,with
pots, kettles, pewter, hrass, &c. hesides near a hun-
dred pounds more in iom-work, nails, tools of every
kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary
things I could think of.
I cairied also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and
fuzees, hesides some pistols, a considerahle quantity
of shot of all sires, three or four tons of lead, and two
pieces of hrass cannon ; and hecause I knew not what
time and what extremities I was providing for, I car-
ried an hundred harrels of powder, hesides swords,
cutlasses,and the iron part of some pikes and halherts;
so that, in short, we had a large magazine of all sorts
of stores., and I made my nephew carry two smart
quarter-deck guns more than he wanted for his ship
to leave hehind if there was occasion; that when they
tame there we might huild a fort, and man it against
fl sorts of enemies: and mdeed I at first thought
(bere would he need enough of it all, and much more,
If we hoped to maintain our possession of the island,
as shall he seen in the course of the story.
I had not such had luck in this voyage as I had
heen used to meet with; and therefore shall have the
less occasion to interrupt the reader, who perhaps may
be impatient to hear how matters went with my co-
lony; yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and hart
waather happened on this first setting out,which made
the voyage longer than I expected it at first; and ^
who had never made hut one voyage, viz. my first
voyage to Guinea, in which I might he said to coms
hack again as the voyage was at first designed, hegan
to think the same ill fate still attended me; and that I
was horn to he never contented with heing on shore,
and yet to he alwavs unfortunate at sea.
Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and
we were ohliged to put in at Galway, in Ireland,
where we lay wind hound two-and-thirty days; hut
we had this satisfaction with the disaster, that provi-
sions were here exceeding cheap, and in the utmost
plenty; so that while we lay here we never touched
the ship's stores, hut rather added to them : here also
I took several hogs, and two cows with their calves,
which I resolved, if I had a good passage, to put on
shore in my island; hut we found occasion to dispose
osherwise of them.
We set out the 5th of Fehruary from Ireland, and
had a very fair gale of wind for some davs; as I re-
memher, it might he ahout the 20th of Fehruary, in
the evening late, when the mate having the watch,
came into the round-house, and told us he saw a flasl
of fire and heard a gun fired; and while he was telW
tng us of it, a hoy came in, and told us the hoatswain
heard another. This made us all run out upon the
quarter-deck, where for a while we heard nothing, hut
in a few minutes we saw a very great light, and found
that there was some very terrihle fire at a distance.
Immediately we had recourse to our reckonings, in
which we all agreed that there could he no land thai
way in which the fire shewed itself, no, not for fiva
hundred leagues, for it appeared at W. N. W. Upon
tliis we concluded it must he some ship on fire at sea;
and as hy our hearing the noise of guns just hefore,
we concluded it could not he far off, we stood directly
towards it, and were presently satisfied we should dis-
cover it, hecause the farther we sailed the greater the
light appeared, though the weather heing hazy we
sould not perceive any thing hut the light for a while,
In ahout half an hour's sailing, the wind heing fair
for us, though not much of it, and weather clearing
up a little, we could plainly discern that it was a
great ship on fire in the middle of the sea.
i was most sensihly touched with this disaster,
though not at all acquainted with the persons engaged
in it; I presently recollected my former circum-
stances, in what condition I was in when taken up
hy the Portugal captain ; and how much more deplo-
rahle the circumstances of the poor creatures helong-
ing to this ship must he if they had no other ship in
company with them : upon this I immediately ordered
that five guns should he fired, one soon after another,
that, if possihle, we tnight give notice to them that
there was help for them at hand, and that they might
endeavour to save themselves in their hoat; for though
we could see the flame in the ship, yet they, it heing
night, could see nothing of us.
We lav hy some time upon this, only driving as
H:e hurmng ship drove, waiting for daylight; when
on a sudden, to our great terror, though we had rea-
son to expect it, the ship hlew up in the air, and im-
mediately sunk. This was terrihle, and indeed an
afflicting sight, for the sake of the poor men, who, f
concluded, must he either all destroyed in the ship,
or he in the utmost distress in their hoats in the mid-
dle of the ocean, which, at present, hy reason it was
dark, I could not see: however, to direct them as
well as I could, I caused lights to he hung out in all
the parts of the ship where we could, and which we,
had lanterns for, and kept firing guns all the night
long; letting them know hy this, that there was a
ship not far off.
Ahout eight o'clock in the morning we discovered
the ship's hoat, hy the help of our perspective-glass;
and found there were two of them, hoth thronged
•nth people, and deep in the water; we perceived
they rowed, the wind heing against them; that they
a> saw our ship, and did the utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them
know we saw them ; and hung a waft out, as a signal
for them to come on hoard, and then made more
sail, standing directly to them. In a little more than
half an hour we came up with them, and in a word
took them all in, heing no less than sixty-four men,
women and children; for there were a great many
passengers.
Upon the whole, we found it was a French mar
chant-ship of three hundred tons, homeward-hound
from Quehec, in the river of Canada. The maste
gave us a long account of the distress of his ship, how
the fire hegan in the steerage hy the negligence of the
steersman; hut, on his crying out for help, was, at
every hody thought, entirely put out: hut they soon
found that some sparks of the fire had gotten into
some part of the ship, so difficult to come at, that
they could not effectually quench it: and afterwards
getting in hetween the timhers, and within the coiling
of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and mastered
all the skill and all the application they were ahle to
exert.
They had no more to do then hut to get into their
hoats, which, to their great comfort, were pretty
large; heing their long-hoat, and a great shallop, he-
sides a small skiff, which was of no great service to
them, other than to get snme fresh water and provi-
sions into her, after they una secured themselves from
the fire. They had indeed small hope of their lives
hy getting into these hoats at that distance from any
land ; only, as they said well, that they were escaped
from the ore, and had a possihility, that some ship
might happen to he at sea, and might take them itk
They had sails, oars, and a compass ; and were pre-
Ering to make the hest of their way to Newfound.
id, the wind hlowing pretty fair; for it hlew an
easy gale at S. E. hy E. They had as much provisioni
and water, as, with sparing it so as to he next door
to starving, might support them ahout twelve days:
m which, if they had no had weather, and no contrary
winds, the captain said, C hoped he might get to the
IT
h•nks of Newfoundland, and might perhaps take soma
fish to sustain them till they might go on shore. But
there were so many chances against them in all theae
cases; such as storms to overset and founder them;
rains and cold to henumh and perish their limhs; con-
trary winds to keep them out and starve them ; that
it must have heen next to miraculous if they had
escaped.
In the mids of their consultations, every one heing
hopeless, and ready to despair, the captain with tears
in his eyes told me, they were on a sudden surprised
with the joy of hearing a gun fire, and after that four
more; these were the five guns which I caused to he
fired at first seeing the light: this revived their hearts,
and gave them the notice which, as ahove, 1 designed
it should, viz. that there was a ship at hand for theii
help.
It was upon the hearing these guns, that they took
down their masts and sails; and the sound coming
from the windward they resolved to lie hy till mom-
ing. Some time after this, hearing no more guns,
they fired three muskets, one a considerahle while
after another; hut these, the wind heing contrary, we
never heard.
Some time after that again, they were still mora
agreeahly surprised with seeing our lights, and hear-
ing the guns, which, as I have said, I caused to he
fired all the rest of the night: this set them to work
with their oars to keep their hoats ahead, at least that
we might the sooner come up with them ; and at last,
to their inexpressihle joy, they found we saw them.
It is impossihle for me to express the several ges-
tures, the strange ecstacies, the variety of postures,
which these poor delivered people run into, to express
the joy of their souls at so unexpected a deliverance i
grief and fear are easily descrihed; sighs, tears, groans,
and a very few motions of head and hands, make up
the sum of its variety . hut an excess of joy. a surprise
of joy, has a thousand extravagances in it; there were
some in tears, some rag:ng and tearing themselves,
Vof- U. -
sl if they had heen in ihe greatest agonies of sorrow, <
some stark raving and doworight lunatic; some raa 5
ahout the ship stamping with their feet, others wring- }
tng their hands; some were dancing, several singing,
some laughing, more crying; many quite dumh, not 5
ahle to tpeak a word: others sick and vomiting, se- 5
veral swooning and ready to faint; and a few went $
crossing them and giving God thanks. ,|
I would not wrong them neither; there might he }
many that were thankful afterward; hnt the passion J
was too strong for them at first and they were uot ahle J
to master it; they were thrown into ecstasies and a 5
kind of frenzy, and so there was hut a very few who 5
were composed and serious in their joy. <
Perhaps also the case may have some addition to <
it, ftom the particular circumstance of the nation they?
helonged to; I mean the French, whose temper is al-
lowed to he more volatile, more passionate, and more j
sprightly, and their spirits more fluid, than of other
nations. 1 a:n not philosopher to determine the canto,
hut nothing I had ever seen hefore came up to it: the s
ecstasies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when
he found his father in the hoat, came the nearest to
it; and the surprise of the master, and his two com-
pamons, whom I delivered from the two villains that
set them on shore in the island, came a little way to-
wards it; hut nothing was to compare to this, either
that 1 saw in Friday, or any where else in my life.
It is farther ohservahle, that these extravagances
did not shew themselves in that different manner I
have mentioned, in different persons only; hut all the
variety would appear in a short succession of mo-
ments, in one and the same person. A man that we
taw this minute dumh, and, as it were, stupid and
confounded, should the next minute he danc:ng and
hallooing like an antic; and the next moment a-tearing
his hair, or pulling his clothes to pieces, and stamp-
ing thorn under his feet like a madman; a few minutes
after that, we should have him all in tears, then sick,
tlteu swooning; and had no, immediate help heen

had, would in a few moments more have heen dead;
and thus it was, not with one or two, or ten or twen-
ty, hut with the greatest part of them ; and, if I remem-
her right, our surgeon was ohliged to let ahove thirty
of them hlood.
There were two priests among them, one an old
man and the other a young man; and that which
was strangest was, that the oldest man was the worst
.
As soon as he set his foot on hoard our ship, and
taw himself safe, he dropped down stone dead, to all
appearance ; not the least sign of life could he per-
ceived in him ; our surgeon immediately applied pro-
per remedies to recoverhim ; and was the only man in
the ship that helieved he was not dead ; and at length
he opened a vein in his arm, having first chafed and
ruhhed the part, so as to warm it as much as possi-
hle: upon this the hlood which only dropped at first,
flowed something freely; in three minutes after the
man opened his eyes; and ahout a quarter of an hour
after that he spoke, grew hetter, and, in a little time,
quite well; after the hlood was stopped he walked
ahout, told us he wai perfectly well, took a dram of
cordial which the surgeon gave him, and was, what
we called, come to himself; ahout a quarter of an
hour after this they came running into the cahin to
the surgeon, who was hleeding a French woman that
had fainted, and told him the priest was gone stark
mad. It seems he had hegun to revolve the change
of his circumstances in his mind, and this put him into
an ecstasy of joy: his spirits whirled ahout faster
than the vessels could convey them; the hlood grew
hot and feverish; and the man was as fit for Bedlam
as any cieaturc that ever was in it; the surgeon would
not hleed him again in that condition, hut gave him
something, to doze and put him to sleep, which, after
some time, operated upon him, and he walked next
morning perfectly composed and well.
The younger priest hehaved himself with great com-
mand of his passion, and was really an example of a
serious well-governed mind - at his first coming on
hoard Uie ship, he threw himself flat on his face, pro*
trating himself in thankfulness fur his deliverance ; hi
which I unhappily and unseasonahly disturhed him,
really thinking he had heen in a swoon : hut he spoke
calmly; thanked me; told me he was giving God
thanks for his deliverance; hegged me to leave him a
few moments, and that next to his Maker he would
give me thanks also.
I was heartily sorry that I disturhed him, and not
only left him, hut kept others from interrupting him
also; he continued m that posture ahout thee mi*
nutes, or a little more, after I left him, then came to
ne as he had said he would, and with a great deal
of seriousness and affection, hut with tears in his eyes,
thanked me that had, under God, given him and so
many miserahle creatures their lives: I told him, I
had no room to move him to thank God for it rather
than me; for I had seen that he had done that al-
ready ; hut I added, that it was nothing hut what rea-
son and humanity dictated to all men, and that wa
had as much reason as he to give thanks to God, who
had hlessed us so far as to make us the instruments
ef his'mercy to so many of his creatures.
After this the young priest applied himself to his
country-folks; lahoured to compose them; persuaded,
entreated, argued, reasoned with them, and did hisut-
most to keep them within the exercise of their reason;
and with some he had success, though others were,
for a time, out of all government of themselves.
I cannot help committing this to writing, as per-
haps, it may he useful to those into whose hands it
may fall, in the guiding themselves in all the extrava-
gances of their passions; for if an excess of joy can
carry men out to such a length heyond the reach of
their reason, what will not the extravagances of anger,
rage and a provoked mind, carry us to? And, indeed,
here I saw reason for keeping an exceeding watch
over our passions of every kind, as well those of joy
awl satisfaction, as those of sorrow and anger.
We were something disordered hy these extrava
pmces among our new guests for the first day; hut
when they had heen retired, lodgings provided for
them as welI as our ship would allow, and they had
heartily, as most of them did, heing fatigued and
tened, they were qui e another sort of people
the next day.
Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledg-
ments for the kindness shewn them, was wanting; the
French, it is known are naturally, apt enough to ex-
ceed that way. The captain and one of the priests
came to me the next day , and desiring to speak with
me and my nephew, the commander hegan to consult
with us what should he done with them; and first
they told us, that as we had saved their lives, so all
they had was little enough for a return to us for the
kindness received. The captain said, they had saved
some money, and some things of value in their hoats,
matched hastily out of the flames; and if we would
accept it, they were ordered to make an offer of it
.all to us; they only desired to he set on shore some-
where in our way, where, if possihle, they might get
a passage to France.
My nephew was for accepting their money at first
word, and to consider what to do with them after-
wards; hut 1 overruled him in that part; for I knew
what it was to he set on shore in a strange cactHry;
and if the Portugal captain that took me up at se* had
served me so, and took all I had for my deliverance,
I must have starved, or have heen as much a slave at
the Brasils as I had heen at Barhary, the heing sold
to a Mahometan only excepted : and perhaps a Por-
tuguese is not a much hetter master than a Turk, if
tiot, in some cases, a much worse.
I therefore told the French captain that we had
taken them up in their distress, it was true ; hut that
It was our duty to do so, as we were fellow creatures,
*nd as we would desire to he so delivered, if we were
in the like or any other extremity ; that we had done
nothing for them hut what we helieved they would
have done for us if we had heen in their case and they
in ours; hut that we took them up to serve them, not
to plunder them ; and that it would he a most harha-
rous things, to take that little from them which they
had saved out of the fire, and then set them on shore
and leave them ; that this would he first to save them
from death and then kill them ourselves; save them
from drowning and then ahandon them to starving;
and therefore Iwould not let the least thing he taken
from them: as to setting them on shore, 1 told them
Indeed that was an exceeding difficulty to us, for that
the ship was hound to the East Indies; and though
we were driven out of our course to the westward a
very great way, which perhaps was directed hy Heaven
on purpose for their deliverance, yet it was impossihle
for us willingly to change our voyage on this part*
cular account; nor could my nephew, the captain,
answer it to the freighters, with whom he was under
charter-party to pursue his voyage hy the way of Bra-
ail; and all I knew he could do for them was, to put
ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships
homeward-hound from the West-Indies, and get them
passage, if possihle, to England or France.
The first part of the proposal was so generous and
kind, they could not hut he very thankful for it; hut
they were in a great consternation, especially the pas-
sengers, at the notion of heing carried away to the East
Indies; they then entreated me, that seeing I was
driven so far to the westward hefore I met with them,
I would at least keep on the same course to the hanks
of Newfoundland, where it was possihle I might meet
with some ship or sloop that they might hire to carry
them hack to Canada, from whence they came.
I thought this hut a reasonahle request on thehi
part, and therefore I inclined tp agree to it; for in-
deed I considered, that to carry this whole company
to the East Indies would not only he an intolerahle
severity to the poor people, hut would he ruining our
whole voyage hy devouring all our provisions; so I
thought it no hreach of Charter-party, hut what an un-
foreseen accident made ahsolutely necessary to us;


and tn which not one could say we were to Ma:ne;
for the laws of God and nature would have forhids
that we should refuse to take up two hoats full of peo-
ple in such a distressed condition ; and the nature of
the thing, as well respecting ourselves as the poor
people, ohliged us to see them on shore some where or
other, for their deliverance; so I consented that wa
would carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and wea-
ther would permit; and, if not, that I would carry
them to Martin ico in the West Indies.
The wind continued fresh easterly, hut the weather
pretty good; and as it had hlowed continually in the
points hetween N. E. and S. E. a long time, we missed
several opportunttcs of sending them to France; for
we met several ships hound to Europe, whereof two
were French, from St. Christophers; hut they had
heen so long heating up against the wind, that tney
durst take in no passengers for fear of wanting provv
tions for the voyage, as well for themselves as for
those they should take in; so we were ohliged to go
on. It was ahout a week after this, that we made
the hanks of Newfoundland, where, to shorten my
story, we put all our French people on hoard a hark,
which they hired at sea there, to put them on shore,
and afterwards to carry them to France, if they could
get provisions to victual themselves with: when, I
say, all the French went on shore, I should rememher
that the young priest I spoke of, hearing we were
hound to the East Indies, desired to go the voyage
with us, and to he set on shore on the coast of Coro-
mandel: I readily agreed to that; for I wonderfully
liked the man, and had very good reason, as will ap-
pear afterwards; also four oft he seamen entered them-
selves in our ship, and proved very useful fellows.
From hence we directed our course for the West
Indies, steering away S. and S, hy E. for ahout twenty
days together, sometimes little or no wind at all,
when we met with another suhject for our humanity
to work upon, almost as deplorahle as that hefore
It was in the latitude or 27 degrees 5 minutes >'
and the 19th of March 1684-5, when we espied a
sail, our course S. E. and hy S. We soon perceived
it was a large vessel, and that she hore up to us; hut
c&tld not at first know what to make of her, till, after
coming a little nearer, we found she had lost her
main-topmast, foremast, and howsprit; and presently
she fires a gun as a signal of distress. -The weather
was pretty ^od, wind at N. N- W. a fresh gale, and
we soon came to speak with her.
We found her a ship of Bristol hound home from
Barhadoes, hut had heen hlown out of the road at Bar-
hadoes, a few days hefore she was ready to sail hy a
terrihle hurricane, while the captain and chief mate
were hoth gone on shore ; so that heside the terror of
the storm, they were hut in an indifferent case for
good artists to hring the ship home; they had heen al
ready nine weeks at sea, and had met with another
terrihle storm after the hurricane was over, which had
hlown them quite out of their knowledge to the west-
ward, and in which they had lost their mast*, as
ahove; they told us, they expected to have seen the
Bahama Islands, hut were then driven away again to
the south-east hy a strong gale of wind at N. N. W.
the same that hlew now, and having no sails'to work
the ship with, hut a main-course, and a kind of square
sail upon a jury-foremast, which they had set up, thcjs
could not lie near the wind, hut were endeavouring
to stand away for the Canaries.
But that which was worst of all, was, that they
were almost starved for want of provisions, hesidei
the fatigues they had undergone: their hread and
flesh was quite gone, they had not an ounce left in
the ship, and had had none for eleven days; the only
relief they had, was, their water was not all spent,
and they had ahout half a harrel of flour left; they
had sugar enough ; somesuccades or sweetmeats they
had at first, hut they were devoured ; and they had
seven casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maioV
servant, onhoard, who were going pa^en^ers, .and
thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhappily cam•
on hoard the evening hefore the hurricane hegan; and,
having no provisions of their own left; they were in
a more deplorahle condition than the rest; for the sea-
men, heing reduced to such an extreme necessity them-
selves, had no compassion, we may he sure, for the
poor passengers; and they were indeed in a condition
that their misery is very hard to descrihe.
I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity
had not led me, the weather heing fair, and the wind
ahated, to go on hoard the ship; the second matey
who upon this occasion commanded the ship, had
heen on hoard our ship; and he told me indeed, that
they had three passengers in the great cahin, that they
were in a deplorahle condition; "Nay," says he,
"I helieve they are dead, for I have heard nothing of
them for ahove two days; and f was afraid to inquire
after them," said he, "for I had nothing to relieve
them with."
We immediately applied ourselves to give them
what relief we could spare; and indeed 1 had so far
overruled things with my nephew, that I would have
victualled them, though we had gone away to Virginia,,
or any part of the coast of America, to have supplied
ourselves; hut there was no necessity for that
.
But now they were in a new danger, for they were
ftfiaid of eating too much, even of that little we gave
them. The mate or commander hrought six men
with him in his hoat, hut these poor wretches looked
like skeletons, and were so weak they could hardly
sit to their oars; the mate himself was very ill, and
half-starved, for he declared he had reserved nothing
from the men and went share and share alike wufi
them in every hit they ate.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, hut set meat he-
fore him immediately, and he had not eaten three
mouthfuIs hefore he hegan to he sick, and out of
ordei; so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mixed
him up something with some hroth, which he said
vol. n.
would he to him hoth food and physic; and after he
had taken it, he grew hetter; in the meantime I for-
got not the men; I ordered victuals to he given them,
and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate it (
they were so exceeding hungry, that they were in a
manner ravenous, and had no command of them-
selves; and two of them ate with so much greediness,
hat they were in danger of their lives the next mora-
"In
The sight of these people's distress was very mov-
ing to me, and hrought to mind what I had a terrihle
prospect of at my first coming on shore in my island,
where I had not the least mouthful of food, or any
hopes of procuring it; hesides the hourly apprehen-
sion I had of heing made the food of other creatures.
But all the while the mate was thus relating to me the
miserahle condition of the ship's company, I could
not put out of my thought the story he had told me ot
the three poor creatures in the great cahin ; viz. the
mother, her son, and the maid-servant, whom he had
heard nothing of for two or three days; and whom
he seemed to confess they had wholly neglected, theif
own extremities heing so great ; hy which I under-
stood, that they had really given them no food at all .,
and that therefore they must he perished, and he all
tying dead perhaps on the floor or deck of the cahin.
As 1 therefore kept the mate, whom we then called
captam, on hoard with his men to refresh them, so I
also forgot not the starring crew that were left on
hoard, hut ordered my own hoat to go on hoard the
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
a sack of hread, and four or five pieces of heef to
hoil. Our surgeon charged the men to cause the meat
to he hoiled while they stayed, and to keep guard in
the cook-room, to prevent the men's taking it to eat
raw, or taking it out of the pot hefore it was well
hoiled, and then to give every man hut a little at a
time ; and hy this caution he preserved the men, who
would otherwise have killed themselves with that very
food that was given them on purpose to save than
lives.
At the same time I ordered the mate to go into the
great cahin and see what condition the poor passen-
gers were in, and, if they were alive, to comfort them
and give them what refreshment was proper; and the
surgeon gave him a large pitcher with some of the
prepared hroth which he had given the mate that wa*
on hoard, and which he did not question would re-
store them gradually.
I was not satisfied with this; hut, as I said ahove,
having a great mind to see the scene of misery, which
I knew the ship itself would present me with, in a
more lively manner than I could have it hy report, I
took the captain of the ship, as we now called him,
with me, and went myself a little after in their hoat.
I found the poor men on hoard almost in a tumult
to get the victuals out of the hoiler hefore it was
ready; hut my mate ohserved his order, and kept a
good guard at the cook-room door; and the man he
place I thereafter using all possihle persuasion to have
patience, kept them oft hy force: however, he caused
some hiscuit cakes to he dipped in the pot, and softer*
ed them with the liquor of the meat, which they ca1)
hrewis, and gave everyone one,to stay their stomachs^
and told them it was for their own safety that he wai
ohliged to give them hut little at a time. But it was
all in vain, and had I not come on hoard, and thehr
own commander and officers with me, and with good
words and some threats also of giving them no more,
I helieve they would have hroke into the cook-rcora
hy force, and torn the meat out of the furnace; foi
words indeed are of a very small force to an hungry
helly: however, we pacified them, and fed them gra
dually and cautiously for the first time, and the next
time gave them more, and at last filled their hellies,
end the men did well enough.
But the misery of the poor passengers in the cahin
Wat of another nature, and far heyond the rest; to
as. first, the ship's company had so little for them-
setves, it was hut too true, that they had at first kept
them very low, and at last totally neglected them; so
that for six or seren days, st might he said, they had
really had do food at ail, and for several days hefore,
very little.
The poor mother, who, as the mate first reported^
was a woman of good sense and good hreeding, had
•pared all she could get so affectionately for her son,
that at last she entirely sunk under it: and when the
mate of our ship went in, she sat upon the floor or
deck, with her hack up against the sides, hetween two
Ciiairs, which were lashed Cast, and her head suck in
hetween her shoulders, like a corpse, though not quits
dead. My mate said all he could to revtve and en-
courage her, and with a spoon put some hroth into her
mouth; she opened her lips, and lifted up one hand,
hut could not speak: yet she understood what he said,
and made signs to him, intimating, that it was too late
for her; and pointing to her child, as if she would
hare said, they should take care of him.
However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved
with the sight, endeavoured to get some of the hroth
Into her mouth ; and, as he said, got two or three
spoonfuls down, though I question whether he could
he sure of it or not; hut it was too late, and she died
the same night
.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his
most affectionate mothers life, was not so far gone;
yet he lay in a cahin-hed as one stretched out, with
hardly any life left in him; he had a piece of an oldl
Hove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it;
however, heing young, and having more strength than
his mother, the mate got something down his throat,
and he hegan sensihly to revive, though, hy giving him
some time after hut two or three spoonfuls extraordi-
Bary, he was very sick, and hrought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid i she lay all
slong upon the deck hard hy her mistress, a^d jus
like one that had fallen down with an apoplexy, au J
.v-^\.-V-j--~--\.'v-j-j-rw^W .w.
I for life; her limhs were distorted, one of
her hands was clasped round the frame of one chair,
and she griped it so hard, that we could not easilv
make her let it go; her other arm lay over her head,
and her feet lay hoth together, set fast against the
frame of the cahin tahle; in short, she lay just like
one in the last agonies of death ; and yet she was
•Jive too.
The poor creature was not only starved with hun-
ger, and terrified with the thoughts of death, hut, aa
the men told us afterwards, was hroken-hearted for
her mistress, whom she saw dying two or three days
oefore, and whom she loved most tenderly.
We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for
when our surgeon, who was a man of very great
knowledge and experience, and with great application
recovered her as to life, he had her upon h:s hand a«
to her senses, for she was little less than distracted for
a considerahle time after; as shall appear presently.
Whoever shall read these memorandums, must ha
desired to consider, that visits at sea are not like a
journey into the country, where sometimes people stay
a week or a fortnight at a place. Our husiness was
to relieve this distrssed ship's crew, hut not tie hy for
them ; and though they were willing to steer the same
course with us For some days, yet we could carry no
sail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts ; how-
ever, as their captain hegged of us to help him to set
up a main-topmast, and a kind of topmast to his jury-
foremast, we did, as it were, lie hy him for three or
four days and then having given him fivo harrels of
heef and pork, two hogsheads of hiscuit, and a pro-
portion oi peas, flour, and what other things we could
spare ; and taking three casks of sugar and some rum,
and some pieces of eight of them for satisfaction, wa
left them, taking on hoard with us,at their own earn eat
request, the youth and the maid, and all their gooda.
The young lad was ahout seventeen years of age, a
pretty, well hred, modest and sensihle youth; gteatly
dejected with the loss of his mother, and, as it s

23
had lost his father hut a few months hefore at Barha-
does He hegged of the surgeon to speak to me, ts,
take him out of the ship; for he said, the cruel fellows
had murdered his mother; and indeed so they had,
that is to say, passively; for they might have spared a
small sustenance to the poor helpless widow, that
might have preserved her life, though it had heen just
to keep her alive. But hunger knows no friend, no
relation, no justice, no right; and therefore is remorse-
less, and capahle of no compassion.
The surgeon told him how far we were going, and
how it would carry him away from all his fr:ends, and
put him perhaps :n as had circumstances, almost, as
we found them in ; that is to say, starving in the
world. He said he mattered not whither he went, if
he was hut delivered from the terrihle crew that he
was among; that the captain (hy which he meant me,
lor he could know nothing of my nephew) had saved
his life, and ho was sure would not hurt him; and as
for the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself, site
would he very thankful for it, let us carry them whi-
ther we would. The surgeon represented the case so
affectionately to me, that I yielded, and we took them
hoth on hoard with all their goods, except eleven hogs-
heads of sugar, which could not he removed, or come
at; and as the youth had a hill of lading for them, I
made his commander sign a writing, ohliging him to
go, as soon as he came to Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers,
a merchant there, to whom the youth said he was
related, and to deliver a letter which I wrote to him,
and all the goods he had helonging to the deceased
widow; which I suppose was not done; for I could
never learn that the ship came to Bristol; hut was. as
is most prohahle, lost at sea, heing in so disahled a
condition, and so far from any land, that I am of
opinion, the first storm she met w:,th afterwards she
might founder at sea; for she was 1 aky, and had
damage in her hold when 1 met with her.
I was now imxhe latitude of 19 deg. 32 min. and
had hitherto had a tolerahle voyage as to weather
31
though at first the winds had heen contrary. I shau
trouhle noSody with the little incidents of wind, wea-
ther, currents, &c. on the rest of our voyage; hut,
shortening my story for the sake of what is to follow,
shall, ohserve that I came to my old hahitation, tht
island, on the 10th of April, 1695. It was with no
•mall difficulty that I found tlw place; for as I cam•
to it, and went from it hefore, on the south and east
nlde of the island, ay coming from the Brazils: so now
coming in hetween the main and the island, and hav-
ing no chart for the coast, nor any land mark, I did
not know it when 1 saw it, or kuow whether I saw it
or no.
We heat ahout a great while, and went on shore on
several islands in the mouth of the great river Omo-
soque, hut none for my purpose: only this I learnt
hy mv coasting the shore, that I was under one great
mistake hefore, viz that the continent which I thought
1 saw from the island 1 lived in, was really noconti-
tent, hut a long island, or tather a ridge of islands
reaching from one to the other side of the extended
iiouth of that great river; and that the savages who
^me to my island, were not properly those which we
call Carrihees, hut islanders and other harharians of
OF ROBINSON ('UT SO".
side than the rest.
In short, I visited several of the islands to no pup-
pose; some I found were inhahited, and some were
not. On one of them I found some Spaniards, and
thought they had lived there; hut speaking with them,
found they had a sloop lay in a small creek hard hy,
and that they came thither to make salt, and catch
•ome pearl-muscles, if they could; hut they helonged
to the Isle de Trinidad, which lay farther north, in
the latitude of 10 and 11 degrees.
Thus coasting from one island to another, some-
times with the snip, sometimes with the Frenchman's
shallop (which we had found a convenient hoat, and
therefore kept her with their very good will,) at length
^ came fair on the south side of my island, and I pre
peutly knew the very countenance of the place; so I
hrought the ship safe to an anchor hroadside with the
1ittle creek where was my old habitation.
As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and
asked him, if he knew where he was? He looked
shout a little, and presently clapping his hands, cried,
"O yes,0 there, O yes, O there !" O po:nting to out
dd hahitation, and fell a dancing and capering like a
mad fellow; and I had much ado to keep him front
iumping into the sea, to swim ashore to the place.
"Well, Friday," said 1, " do you think we shall
find any hody here, or no .' and what do you think,
shall we see your father?" The fellow stood mute
aft a stock a good while ; hut when 1 named his father,
the poor affectionate creature looked dejected; and I
could see the tears run down his face very plentifully*.
*- What is the matter, Friday ? said I; ** are you
trouhled hecause you may see your father?"—" No,
no," says he, shaking his head, "no see him more,
no ever more see again."—" Why so," said I, "Fr>'
day ? how do you know that?"—" O no, O no," says
Friday, "he long ago die; long ago, he much old
man."—" Well, well," said 1, " Friday, you don't
know : hut shall we see any one else then ?" The fel-
low, it seems, had hetter eyes than I, and he pointe
lust to the hill ahove my old house; and though we
lay half a leage off, he cries out, " Me see! me see!
yes, yes, me see much man there, and there, and
there." I looked, hut could see nohody, no, nos
with a perspeetive-glass; which was, I suppose, he-
cause 1 could not hit the place; for the fellow was
right as I found upon inquiry the next day, and there
were five or six men all together stood to look at the
ehip not knowing what to think of us.
As soon as Friday had tohl me he saw people, I
caused the English ancient to he spread, and firod
three guns, to give them notice we were friend?; and
ahout half a quarter of an hour after, we perceived a
•moke rise from the side of the creek; so I immedi-
ately ordered a hoat nut, tak:ng Friday with me ; aud
hanging out a white flag, or a flag of truce, I went
direetly on shore, taking with me the young friar I
mentioned, to whom 1 had told the whole story of my
living there, and the manner of it, and every particu-
lar hoth of myself and those that I left there, and who
was on that account extremely desirous to go with me.
We had hesides ahout sixteen men very well armed.
If we had found any new guest there which we did
not know of; hut we had no need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood near
high water, we rowed directly into the creek ; and the
first man I fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard whose
life I had saved, and whom I knew hy his face per-
fecly well ; as to his hahit, I shall descrihe it after-
wards. 1 ordered nohody to go oti shore at first hut
myself; hut there was no keening Friday in the hoat;
for the affectionate creature had spied his father at a
distance, a good way off of the Spaniards, where in-
deed I saw nothing of him ; and if they had not let
him go on shore he would have jumped into the sea.
He was no sooner on shore, hut he new away to hii
father like an arrow out ol a how. It would have
made any man shed tears in spite of the firmest reso-
lution, to have seen the first transports of this poor
fellow's joy, when he came to his tather; how he en>
hiaced him, kissed him, stroked his face, took him up
In his arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay down
hy him; then stood and looked at him as any one
would look at a strange picture ft t a quarter of an
hour together; then lay down upon the ground, and
stroked his legs, and kissed them, and then got up
aga:n, and stared at him; one would have though the
fellow hewitched : hut it would have made a dog
laugh to see how the next day his passion run out an*
other way : in the morning he walked along the shore,
to and again, with his father, several hours, always
leading him hy the hand, as if he had heen a lady;
and every now and then would come to fetch some-
thing or other for him from the hoat either a lump of
Vol. II.—
W LIFE AND ADVENTURES
was good. In the afternoon his frolics ran another
way, for then he would set the old man down upon
the ground, and dance ahout him, and made a thou-
sand antic postures and gestures, and all the while ha
did this he would he talking to him, an.1 telling him
one stury or another of his travels, and of what had
happened to him ahroad, to divert him. In short, if
the same filial affection was to he found in Christian*
to their parents in our parts of the world, one would
he tempted to say there hardly would have heen any
need of the filth commandment.
Bnt this is a digression; 1 return to my landing. It
would he endless to take notice of all the ceremoniee
and civilities that the Spaniards received me with.
The first Spaniard whom, as 1 said, I knew very well,
was he whose life I saved : he came towards the hoat
attended hy one more, carrying a flag of truce also;
and he did not only know me at first, hut he had
no thoughts, no notion, of its heing me that was coms
till I spoke to him. "Seignior," said I, in Portu
guese, "do you not know me?" At which he spoke
not a word; hut giving his musket to the man that
was with him, threw his arms ahroad, and saying
something in Spanish that I did not perfectly hear,
came forward, and emhraced me, telling me, he was
inexcusihle not to know that face again that he had
once* seen, as of an angel from Heaven sent to save
his life : he said ahundance of very handsome things,
as a well-hred Spaniard always knows how; and then
heckoning to the person that attended him, hade him
go and call out his comrades. He then asked me if f
would walk to my old hahitation, where he would
F've me possession of my own house again, and where
should see there had heen hut mean improvements;
so I walked along with him ; hut, alas! I could no more
find the place again than if I had never heen there;
(or they had planted so many trees, and placed them
h such a posture, so thick and close to one another,
fat ten years time they were grown so hig, that, is
3.7
rfint, the place was inaccessihle, except hy such wind
fogs, and hlind ways as they themselves only who
made them could find.
I asked them, what put them upon all :hes• fortifi-
cations? He told me, I would say there was need
enough of it, when they had given an account how
they had passed their time since their arriving in the
island, especially after they had the misfortune to find
that I was gone: he told me he could not hut have
some satisfaction in my good fortune, when he heard
that I was gone in a good ship, and to my satisfaction;
and that he had oftentimes a strong persuasion that
ooe time or other he should see me agam : hut nothing
that ever hefel him In his life, he said, was so sm-
prising and afflicting to him at first, as the disap-
pointment he was under when he came hack to the
island, and found I was not there.
As to the three harharians (so he called them) that
were left hehind, and of whom he said he had a long
6iory to tell me ; the Spaniards all thought themselves
much hetter among the savages, only that their num-
her was so small. "And," says he, " had they heen
strong enough, we had heen all long ago in purga-
tory;" and with that he crossed hii.iself upon the
hreast. "But, Sir," says he, "1 hope you will not
he d;sple1ised, when 1 shall tell you h' w, forced hy
necessity, we were ohliged, for our own preservation,
to disarm them, and making them our suhjects, who
would not he content with heing moderately ourmas-
fcers, hut would he our murderers." I answered, 1
was heartily afraid of it when I left them there ; and
nothing trouhled me at my parting from the island,
fcut that they were not come hack, that I might have
But them in possession of every thing first, and left
the other in a state of suhjection, as ihey d served:
hut if they had reduced them to it, I was very glad,
fcnd should he very far from finding any fault with it;
for I knew they were a parcel of refractory, ungo-
vernahle villains, and were fit for any manner of
mischief.
While I was saying this came the man whom he had
pent hack, and with him eleven men more: in tha
dress they were in, it was impossihle to guess what
natio' they were of; hut he made all clear hoth to
them and to roe Frst he turned to me, and pointing
to them, said, "These Sir, are some of the gentle'
men who owe their lives to you ;n and then turning
to them, and pointing to me, he let them know who
I was; upon which they all came up one hy one, not
as if they had heen sailors, and ordtnary fellows, aid
I the like, h-rt really as if they had heen amhassadors
or nohlemen, and 1 a monarch or a great conoeror t
their hehaviour was to the last degree ohliging and
courteous, and yet mixed with a manly majestic gra-
vity, which very well hecame them; and, in short,
they had so much more manners than I, that I scarce
knew how to receive their civilities, much less how to
return them in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in tha
Island after my going away, is so remarkahle, and has
sn many incidents, which the former part of my rela-
tion will help to understand, and which will, in most
of the particulars, refer to that account 1 have already
given, that 1 cannot hut commit them with great de-
ltght to the reading of those that come after me.
I shall no longer trouhle the story with a relation in
the first person, which will put me to the expense of
ten thousand Said I's, and Said he's, and He told me's
•od 1 told him's, and the like; hut I shall collect the
facts historically as near as I can gather thorn out of
my memory from what they related to me, and from
what I met with in my conversing with them, and
with the place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligihly as
I can, I must go hack to the circumstance in which I
left the island, and which the persons were in of whom
I am to speak. At first it is necessary to re|H?at, that
I had sent away Friday's father and the Spaniard,
the two whose lives I had rescued from the savages;
1 say, I had sent them away in a large canoe to tlx

main, as I then thought it, to fetch over the Spania rd'i
companions whom he had left hehind him, in order ts
save them from the like calamity that he had heen m,
and in order to succour them for the present, and that,
if possihle, we might together find some way for our
lelirerance afterward.
When I sent them away, I had no visihle appear
srice of, or the least room to hope for, my own deli-
verance, any more than I had twenty years hefore |
much less had I any foreknowledge of what after hap-
pened, I mean of an English ship coming on shore
there to fetch them off; and it could not hut he a very
great surprise to them when they came hack, not only
to find that I was gone, hut to find three strangers leu
on the spot, possessed of all that I had left hehind me,
which would otherwise have heen their own.
The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that
I might hegin where I left off, was of their own part;
and I desired he would give me a particular account
of his voyage hack to his count.ymen with the hoat,
when I sent him to fetch them over. He told ma
there was little variety in that part; for nothing re-
markahle happened to them on the way, they having
rery calm weather and a smooth sea ; for his country•
men it conld not he douhled, he said, hut that they
were overjoyed to see him (it seems he was the prin-
cipal man among them, the captain of the vessel they
had heen shipwrecked in having heen dead some
time :) they were, He said, the more surprised to see
htm, hecause they knew not that he was fal!en into the
hands of savages, who, they were satisfied, would de-
vour him, as they did all the rest of their prisoners)
hat when he told them the story of the deliverance,
snd in what manner he was furnished for carrying
them away, it was like a dream to them; and their
astonishment, they said, was something like that of
Joseph's hrethren, when he told them who he was,
and told them the story of his exaltation in Pharoah's
court; hut when he shewed them the arms, the powder,
the halt and the provisions that he hrought them for
their Journey ar voyage, they were restored to them
selves, took a just share of the joy of their deliver
HKt, and immediately prepared to come away with
him.
Their first husiness was to get canoes; and in thii
they were ohliged not to stick so much upon the ho-
nest part of it, hut to trespass upon their friendly •a
vages, and to horrow two large canoes or periguas.
on pretence of going out a-fishing, for pleasure.
In these they came away the next morning; U
teems they wanted no time to get themselves ready,
for they had no haggage, neither clothes, or provi-
sions, or any thing in the world, hut what they had
on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used
to make their hread.
They were in all three weeks ahsent, and in that
time, unluckily for them, I had the occasion offered
for my escape, as I mentioned in my other part, and
to get off from the island ; leaving three of the most
impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeahle vil-
lains hehind me that any man could desire to meet
with, to the poor Spaniards' great grief and disap-
pointment you may he sure.
The onlv just thing the rogues did, was, that when
the Spamards came on shore, they gave my letter to
them and gave them provisions and other relief, as I
had ordered them to do; also they gave them the
long paprr of directions, which I had left with them,
containing the particular methods which I took foi
managing every part of my life there; the way how
I haked my hread, hred up my tame goats, and plant-
ed my corn : how I cured my grapes, made my pots,
and, in a word, every thing I did; all this heing
written down, they gave to the Spaniards, two of
whom understood English well enough ; nor did they
refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with any thing
else, for they agreed very well for some time; they
gave them an equal admission into the house, or cave,
and they hegan to live very sociahly; and the J*ead
33
Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my method*
and Friday's father together managed all their affairs i
for as for the Englishmen they did nothing hut ram-
hle ahout the island, shoot parrots, and catch tor
toises, and when they came home at night, the Spa-
niards provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have heen satisfied with this,
would the other hut have left them alone; which,
however, they could not find in their hearts to do
long; hut, like the dog in the manger, they would not
eat themselves, and would not let others eat neitheri
hut differences, nevertheless, were at first hut trivial,
and such as are rot worth relating: hut at last it
hroke out into open war, and it hegan with all tho
rudeness and insolence that can he imagined, without
reas' n, without provocation, contrary to nature, and
indeed to common sense; and though, it is true, the
first relation of it came from the Spaniards themselves,
whom 1 may call the accusers, yet when I came to
examine the fellows they could not deny a word of it
.
But hefore I come to the particulars of this part, I
must supply a defect in my former relation; and this
was that I forgot to set down among the rest, that
iust as we were weighing the anchor to set sail, there
lappened a little quarrel on hoard our ship, which I
was afraid once would turn to a second mutiny; nor
was it appeased till the captain, rousing up his cou-
rage, and taking us all to his assistance, parted them
hy force, and making two of the most refractory fel-
lows prisoners, he laid them in irons; and as they
had heen active in the former disorders, and let fan
some ugly dangerous words the second time, he threat-
ened to carry them in irons to England, and have
them hanged there for mutiny, and running away
with the ship.
Tuis, it seems, though the captain did not intend to
do It, frighted some other men in the ship; and some
of them had put it in the heads of the rest, that the
captain only gave them good words for the present till
they should come to some English port, and that thea
they should he all put into a goal, and tried for theit
lives
The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted ui
with it; upon which it was desired that I, who still
passed for a great man among them, should go down
with the mate, and satisfy the men, and tell them, that
they might he assured if they hehaved well the rea|
of the voyage, all they had done for the time past
should he pardoned. So I went, and after passing my
honour's word to them they appeared easy, and the
more so, when I caused the two men who were in
irons to he released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had hrought us to an anchor for
that night, the wind also falling calm. Next morning
we found that our two men who had heen laid in
Irons, had stole each of them a musket and some other
weapons i wY:at powder or shot they had we knew
not; and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not
yet haled up, and run away with her to their compar
nions in roguery on shore.
As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-hoat
cm shore, with twelve men and the mate, and away
they went to seek the rogues; hut they could neither
find them nor any of the rest; for they all fled into
the woods when they saw the hoat coming on shore.
The mate was once resolved, injustice to their rogue-
ry, to have destroyed their plantations, hurnt all their
household stuff and furniture, and left them to shift
without it; hut having no order, he let all alone, left
•very thing as they found it,and hringing the pinnaes
away, came on hoard without them.
These two men made their numher five: hut tho
other three villains were so much wickeder than these,
that after they had heen two or three days together,
they turned their two new-comers out of doors to shift
for themselves, and would have nothing to do with
them ; nor could they, for a good while, he persuaded
to give them any food: as for the Spaniards, they
were not yet come.

When the .Spaniards came first on shore, the husi
ness hegan to go forward; the Spaniards would have
persuaded the three English hraies to have taken in
their two countrymen again, that as they said, they
might he all one family; hut they would not hear of
It: so the two poor fellows lived hy themselves, and
? finding nothing hut industry and application would
? make them live comfortahle, they pitched their tenrj
t on the north shore of the island, hut a little more to
? the west, to he out of the danger of the savages, who
5 always landed on the east part of the island.
5 Here tfety huilt two huts, one to lodge in, and the
c other to lay up their magazines and stores in ; and
? the Spaniards having given them some com for seed,
5 and especially some of the peas which 1 had left them,
5 they dug and planted, and enclosed, after the pattern
I had set for them all, and hegan to live pretty well;
their first crop of corn was on the ground, and though
It was hut a little hit of land which they had dug up
at first, having had hut a little time, yet it was enough
to relieve them, and find them with hread, or other
eatahles; and one of the fellows heing the cook's mats
tif the ship, was very ready at making soup, pud-
dings, and such other preparations, as the rice and
the milk, and such little flesh as they got, furnished
him to do.
They were going on in a little thriving posture, }
when the three unnatural rogues, their own country- A
men too, in mere humor and to insult them, came 5
and hullied them, and told them the island was theirs; 5
that the governor, meaning me, had given them poa- 5
session of it, and nohody else had any right to it; and, J
damn them, they should huild no houses upon theif 5
ground unless they would pay them rent for them.?
The two men thought they had jested at first, and J
asked them to come and sit down, and see what fine i
houses they were that they had huilt, and tell them 5
what rent they demanded: and one of them merrily 5
told them, if they were ground-landlords, he hoped i| 5
they huilt tenements uoon the land and made improve*
i
meiits, they would, according to the custom of a|
landlords, grant them a long lease ; and hid them go
fetch a scrivener to draw the writings. One of the
three, damning and raging, told them they should ses
they were not in jest; and going to a little place ut
a distance, where the honest men had made a fire tr'
dress their victuals, he takes a fire hrand and claps is
to the outside of their hut, and very fairly set it on
fire ; and ,t would have heen all hurnt down in a few
minutes, if one of the two had not run to the fellow,
thrust him away, and trod the fire out with his feet,
and that not without some difficulty too.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man'i
thrusting him away, that he turned upon him with a
pole he had in his hand; and had not the man avoidedl
the hlow very nimhly, and run into the hut, he had
ended his daysatoncc. His comrade, seeing the dai>
ger they were Imth in, ran in afier him, and immedi-
ately they came hoth out with their muskets ; and the
man that was first sttuck at with the polr knocked
the fellow down who hegan the quarrel with the stock
of his musket, and that hefore the other two could
come to help him; and then seeing the res' come at
them, they stood together, and presenting the othe•
ends of their pieces to them, hade them stand off.
The others had fire arms with them too; hut one
of the two honest men, holder than his comrade, and
made desperate hy his danger, told them if trWy oft
fered to move hand or foot they were all dead men,
and holdly commanded them to lay down their arms,
They did not indeed lay down their arms; hut see-
ing him resolute, it hrought them to a parley, and
they consented to take their wounded man with them,
and he gone: and, indeed, it seems the fellow waa
wounded sufficiently with the hlow: however, they
were much in the wrong, since they had the advant-
age, that they did not disarm them effectually, as
tney might have done, and have gone immediately to
the Spaniards, and given them an account how the
cugues had treated them ; for the three villituaa studs'
died nothing hut revenge and every day gave then
•ome intimation that they did so.
But not to crowd this part with an account of the
Usht part of their rogueries, such as treading down
their corn, shooting three young kids and a she goat,
which the poor men had got to hreed up tame for
their store; and in a word, plaguing them night and
day in this manner, it forced the two men to such a
desperation, that they resolved to fight them all three
the first time they had a fair opportunity. In order
to this they resolved to go to the castle, as they called
it, that was my old dwelling, where the three roguea
and the Spaniards all lived together at that time, in-
tending to have a fair hattle, and the Spaniards should
stand hy to see fair play. So they got up in the morn-
ing hefore day, and came to the place, and called the
Englishmen hy their names, telling a Spaniard thai
answered, that they wanted to speak with them.
It happened that the day hefore two o! the Spa-
niards, having heen in the woods, had seen one of the
two Englishmen, whom for distinction, I call the
honest men; and he had made a sad complain to the
Spaniards, of the harharous usaee they had met with
from their three countrymen, and how they had ruin-
ed their plantation, and destroyed their com, that they
had lahoured so hard to hring forward, and killed
the milch-goat, and their three kids, which was all they
had provided for their sustenance: and that if he and
his friends meaning the Spaniards did not assist them
again, they should he starved. When the Spaniard•
came home at night, and they were all at supper, he
took the freedom to reprove the three Englishmen,
though in gentle and mannerly terms, and asked thems
how thev could he so cruel, they heing harmless in-
offensive fellows, and that they were putting them-
selves in a way to suhsist hy their lahour, and that it
had cost them a great deal of pains to hring things to
such perfection as they had?
One of the Englishmen returned very hriskly "what
had they to do there s That they came on shore with-
put leave, and that they should not plant or huild npca
the island; it was none of their ground."—" Why,"
eays the Spaniard, very calmly, Seignior, lnglese,
they must not starve." The Englishman replied, like
a true rough-hewn tarpaulin, " they might starve and
be d—ed, they should not plant nor huild in that
place."—" But what must they do then, Seignoir?"
Bays the Spaniard. Another of the hrutes returned,
•' Do ! d—n them, they should he servants, and work
for them."—" But how can you expect that of them?
they are not hought with your money; you have no
right to make them servants.'' The Englighman an-
swered, "The island was thoirs, the governor had
§iven it to them, and no man had any thing to do there
ut themselves;" and with that swore hy his Maker,
that he would go and hurn all their new huts; they
should huild none upon their land.
"Why, Seignoir" says the Spaniard, " hy the same
rule, we must he your servants too."—" Ay," says
the hold dog, and so you shall too, hefore we have
done with youmixing two or three G—d d—mme't
in the proper intervals of his speech. The Spaniard
only smiled at that, and made him no answer. How.
ever, this little discourse had heated them ; and start-
ing; mi, one sayt to the other, 1 think it was he they
called Will Atkins, " Come, Jack, let us go and have
the other hrush with them; we will demolish their
castle, I will warrant you; they shall plant no colony
In O'ir dominions."
Upon this they were all trooping away, with every
own a gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some
Insolent things among themselves, of what they would
do to the Spaniards too, when opportunity offered
hut the Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfectly un
derstand them as to know all the particulars; only
that, in general, they threatened them hard for taking
the two Englishmen's part.
Whither they went, or how they hestowed their time
fhat evening, the Spaniards said they did not know;
hut it seems they wandered ahout the country part of

Ihe mght; and then lying down in the place which 1 5
Used to call my hower, they were weary, and overslept 5
themselves. The case was this: they had resolved to 5
stay till midnight, and sn take the poor men when ^
they were asleep]; and they acknowledged it after- ^
wards, intending to set fire to their huts while they s
were in them, and either hurn them in them, or mur- <
Her them as they came out; and, as malice seldom 5
deeps very sound, it was very strange they should 5
not have heen kept waking. 5
£ However, as the two men had also a design upor 5
? them, as I have said, though a much fairer one thar 5
> that of hurning and murdering, it happened, and very 5
s luckily for them all,that they were up, and gone ahroad J
§ hefore the hloody-minded rogues came to their huts. j
? When they came thither, and found the men gone, 5
> Atkins who it seems was the furwardest man, called 5
S tut to his comrades, " Ha ! Jack, here's the nest; hut s
5 d—n them, the hirds are flown." They mured awhile 5
J. to think what slioulil he the occasion of their heing J
jj $one ahroad so soon, and suggested presently that tho J
2 Spaniards had given them notice of it; and with that J
?t they shook hands, and swore to one another, that they 5
> would he revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as 5
? they had made this hloody hargam, they fell to work
with the poor men's hahitation; they did not set fire
indeed to any thing, hut they pulled down hoth their
houses, and pulled them so limh from limh, that they
loft not the least stick standing, or scarce any sign on
hie ground where they stood ; they tore all their littla
collected household-stuff in pieces, and threw every
hing ahout in such a manner, that the poor men
ound, afterwards, some of their things a mile off
roni their habitation.
When they hud done this, they pulled up all the
»ung trees which the poor men had planted ; pulled
up the enclosure they had made to secure theircattte
and their corn ; and, in a word, sacked and plunder-
ed every thing, as completely as a herd of Tartan
would have doue.

24
The two men were at this juncture gone to find
them out, and had resolved to fight them wherever
they had heen, though they were hut two to three ; so
that, had they met, there certainly would have heen
hloodshed among them : for they were all very stou^
resolute fellows, to give them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them a sun-
der, than they themselves could do to meet: for as
they had dogged one another, when the three wera
pone thither,thetwo were here; and afterwards, when
the two went hack to find them, the three were coma
to the old hahitation again: we shall see their differ-
ing conduct presently. When the three came hack,
like furious creatures, flushed with the rage which the
work they had heen ahout put them into, they came
up to the Spaniards, and told them what they had
done hy way of scoff aud hravado; and one of them
stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had
heen a couple of hoys at play, takes hold of his hat,
as it was upon his head, and giving it a twirl ahout,
fleering in his face, says he to him, "And you,Seig-
nior Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you
do not mend your manners." The Spaniard, who,
though quite a civil man, was as hrave as a man could
desire to he, and withal a strong well-made man, look-
ed steadily at him for a good wmMe; and then, having
no weapon in his hand, stepped gravely up to him,
and with one hlow of his fist knocked him down, as
an ox is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the
rogues insolent as the first, fixed his pistol at the Spa-
niard immediately; he missed his hody indeed, fo
the hulleu went through his hair, hut one of them
touched the tip of his ear, and he hled pretty much.
The hlood made the Spaniard helieve he was mora
hurt than he really was, and that put him into soma
heat, for hefore he acted all in a perfectcalm ; hut now
resolving to go through with his work, he stooped
and took the fellow's musket wh m he had knocked
down and was just going to shoot the man who had
tired at him; when the rest of the Spaniards, heing ia
Ihe cave, came out, and calling to him not to shoot,
they stepped in, secured the other two, and took their
arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they had
made all the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their
own countrymen, they hegan to cool; and giving the
Spaniards hetter words, would have had their arma
•gain; hut the Spaniards, considering the feud that
was hetween them And the other two Englishmen, and
hat it would he the hest method they could take to
keep them from one another, told them they would
do them no harm; and if they would live peaceahly
they would he very willing to assist and associate with
them, as they did hefore; hut that they could not
think of giving them their arms again, while they ao-
pearcd so resolved to do mischief with them to trreir
own countrymen, and had even threatened them all
to make them their servants.
The rougues were now more capahle to hear reason
than to act reason ; hut heing refused their arms, they
went raving away, and raging like madmen, threaten-
mg what they would do.though they had no firc-armt t
hut the Spaniards, despising their threatening, told
them they should take care how they offered any in-
jury to their plantation or cattle; for if they did, they
would shoot them, as they would do ravenous heasts,
wherever they found them; and if they fell into their
hands alive, they would certainly he hanged. How-
ever, this was far from cooling them ; hut away they
went, swearing and raging like furies of hell. Aa
soon as they were gone, came hack the two men in
passion and rage enough also, though of another kind;
fnr having heen at their plantation, and finding it all
demolished and destroyed, as ahove, it will easily he
•upposed they had provocation enough; they could
•carce have room to tell their tale, the Spaniards were
bo eager to tell them theirs; and it was strange enough
to find, that three men should thus hully nineteen, and
recieve no punishment at all.
'Hie Spaniards indeed despised them, and eipeci
48
LIFE A!VD ADVENTURES
ally having thus disarmed them, made light of their
threatenings; hut the two Englishmen resolved to
have their remedy against them, what pains soever it
cost to find them out
.
But the Spaniards interposed here too, am bid
them, that they were already disarmed : they could
not consent that they (the two) should pursue them
with fire arms, and perhaps kill them: "But," said
the grave Spaniard, who was their governor," we will
endeavour to make them do you justice, if you will
leave it to us; for, as there is no douht hut they will
come to us again when their passion is over, heing
not ahle to suhsist without our assistance, we promise
you to make no peace with them, without having a
full satisfaction for you; and upon this condition we
hope you will promise to use no violence with them!
other than in your defence."
The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkard
ly, and with great reluctance; hut the Spaniards pro
tested, they did it only to keep them from hloodshed,
and to make all easy at last; " For," said they, '' wi
are not so many of us; here is room enough for us all,
and it is great pity we should not he all good friends.')
At length they did consent, and waited for the issmi
of the thing, living for some days with the Spaniards \
for their own hahitation was destroyed.
In ahout five days time the three vagrants, tired
with wandering, and almost starved with hunger, hav-
ing chiefly lived oii turtles' eggs all that while, came
hack to the grove; and finding my Spaniard, who, at
I have said, was the governor, and two more with
1rim, walking hy the side of the creek; they came up
in a very suhmissive humhle manner, ancf hegged to
he received again into the family. The Spaniardi
used them civilly, hut told them, they had acted so
unnaturally hy their countrymen, and so very grossly
hy them, (the Spaniards) that they could not come to
any conclusion without consulting the two English-
men, and the rest; hut however they would go to
them, and discourse ahout it, and they should know
in half an hour. It may he guessed that they were
very hard put to it; for it seems, as they were to wait
this half-hour for an answer, they hegged'he would
send them out some hread in the meantime; which
he did, and sent them at the same time a large piece
of goat's flesh, and a hroiled parrot, which they ata
very heartily, for they were hungry enough. •
After half an hour's consultation they were called
in, and a long dehate had ahout them, their two coun-
trymen charging them with the ruin of all their la-
hour, and a design to murder them; all which they
owned hefore, and therefore could not deny now;
upon the whole, the Spaniards acted the moderators
hetween them ; and as they had ohliged the two Eng-
lishmen not to hurt the three, while they were naked
ami unarmed, so they now ohliged the three to go and
rehuild their fellows' two huts, one to he of the same
dimensions, and the other larger than they were he-
fore : also to fence their giound again, where they had
pulled up the fences, plant trees in the room of those
pulled up, dig up the land again for planting corn,
where they had spoiled it; and in a word, to/estore
every thing in the same state as they found it, as ucai
as they could ; for entirely it could not he, the season
for the com, and the growth of the trees and hedges,
not heing possihle to he recovered.
Well, they all suhmitted to this; and as they had
plenty of provisions given them all the while, ihey
grew very orderly, and the whole society hegan to live
pleasantly and agreeahly together again; only that
these three fellows could never he persuaded to work;
I mean, not for themselves, except now and then a
little, just as they pleased; however, the Spaniard*
told them plainly, that if they would hut live sociahly
and friendly together, and study in the whole the
good o! the plantation, thev would he content to work
for them, and let them walk ahout and he as idle ae
they pleased ; and thus having lived pretty well toge-
vou u.

ther for a month or two, the Spaniards gave them theif
arms agam, and gave them liherty to go ahroad with
them as hefore.
It was not ahove a week after they had these arms,
and went ahroad, hut the ungrateful creatures hegao
to he as insole nt and trouhlesome as hefore ; hut how-
ever, an accident happened presently upon this,which
endangered the safety of them all; they were ohliged
to lay hy all private resentments, and look to the pre
aervation of their lives.
It happened one night, that the Spaniard governor,
as I call him, that is to say, the Spaniard whose life
I had saved, who was now the captain, or leader or
governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy in the
night and could hy no means get any sleep: he was
perfectly well in hody, as he told me the story, only
round his thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran upon
men fighting and killing one another, hut was hroad
awake, and could not hy any means get any sleep; in
short, he lay a great while; hut growing more and
more uneasy, he resolved to rise: as they lay, heing
so many of them, upon goat-skins laid thick upon
such couches and pads as they made for themselves,
and not in hamm tcks and ship-heds, as I did, who
was hut one, so they had little to do, when they were
willing to rise, hut to get up upon their feet, and per-
haps put on a coat, such as it was, and their pumps,
and they were ready for going any way that their
thoughts guided them.
Bemg thus gotten up, he looked out; hut, heing
dark, he could see little or nothing; and hesides, the
trees which I had planted, as in my fomer account
Is descrihed, and which were now grown tall, inter-
cented his sight, so that he could only look up, and see
mat it was a clear star-light night; and hearing no
noise, he returned and lain him down a^ain; hut it
was all one, he could not sleep, nor could he compose
himself to any thing like rest, but his thoughts were to
the last degree uneasy, and yet he knew not for what
Having made some noise with rising and walking
ahout going out and coming in, another of them wak-
ed, and, calling, asked who it was that was up ? Tha
governor told him how it had heen with him. "Say
you so ?" says the other Spaniard; "such things are
not to he slighted, I assure you ; there is certain1y
some mischief working," says he, "near us;" and
presently he asked him, "Where are the English,
men ?"—" They are all in their huts," says he, " sai•
envi..gh." It seems, the Spaniards had kept posses-
sion of the main apartment, and had mane a place,
where the three Englishmen, since their last mutiny,
always quartered hy themselves, and could not coma
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 51
something in it, I am persuaded from my own expe-
rience; I am satisfied our spirits emhodied have con-
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 51
unemhodied, and inhahiting the invisihle world ; and
this friendly notice is given for our advantage, if we
know how to make use of it . Come," says he, " let
us go out and look ahroad; and if we find nothing at
all m it to justify our trouhle, I 'll tell you a story to
the purpose that shall convince you of the justice of
my proposing it."
In a word, they went out to go to the top of the
hill, where I used to go; hut they heing strong, and
In good company, nor alone, as 1 was, used none of
my cautions to go up hy the ladder, and then pulling
it up after them, to go up a second stage to the top,
hut were going round through the grove unconcerned
and unwary, when they were surprised with seeing a
light as of a fire, a very little way off from them, and
hearing the voices of men, not of one or two hut of a
great numher.
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 51
landing on the island, it was my constant care to pre-
vent them making the least discovery of there heing
any inhahitant upon the place ; and when hy any ne-
cessity they came to know it, they felt it so effectu-
ally, that they that got away, were scarce ahle to give
my account of it, for we disappeared as soon as pos-
sihle, nor did ever any that had seen me, escape to
tell any one else, except it were the three savages in
•ur last encounter, who jumped into the hoat, of whom
I mentioned that I was afraid they should go home!
and hring more help.
Whether it was the consequence of the escape of
those m;n that so great a numher came now toge-
ther; or whether they came ignorantly, and hy acci-
dent, on their usual hloody errand,the Spaniards could
not, it seems, understand : hut whatever it was, it had
heen their husiness, either to have concealed them-
selves, and not have seen them at all; much less to
have let the savages have seen, that there were any
inhahitants in the place ; hut to have fallen upon them
so effectually, as that not a man of them should have
escaped, which could only have heen hy getting in
hetween them and their hoats: hut this presence of
mind was wanting to them: which was the ruin of
their tranquility for a great while.
We need not douht hut that the governor, and the
man with him, surprised with this sight, ran hack im-
mediately, and raised their fellows, giving them an
account of the imminent danger, they were ail in ; and
they again as readily took the alarm, hut it was Im-
possihle to persuade them to stay close within where
they were, hut that they must all run out to see how
things stood.
While it was dark indeed, they were well enough,
and they had opportunity enough, for some hours, to
view them hy the light of three fires they had made
at some distance from one another; what they were
doing they kiuw not, and what to do themselves they
knew not; for, first, the enemy were too many; and,
secondlv, they did not keep together, hut were divid-
ed into several parties, and were on shore in several
places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at
this sight. and as they found that the fellows ran strag-
glmg all over the shore, they ma/'e no douht, hut.
53
first or last, some of them would chop in upon their
hahitatio»,or upon some other place, where they would 5
see the tokens of inhahitant*,; and they were in great 5
perplexity also for fear of their flock of goats, which s
would have heen little less than starving them, if they c
should have heen destroyed ; so the first thing they re- $
solved upon, was to dispatch three men away hefora >
it was light, vix. two Spaniards and one Englishman* 4
to drive all the goats away to the great valley whea ,J
the cave was, and, if need were, to drive tnem into \
the very cave itself. 5
Could they have seen the savages all together in on# 5
hody and at a distance from the;r canoes, they re?
solved, if there had heen an hundred of them, to have 5
attacked them ; hut that could not he ohtained, for J
there were some of them two miles off from the other, ,J
and, as it appeared afterwards, were of two different $
nations. }
After having mused a great while on the course S
they should take, and heaten their hrains in consider- 5
ing their present circumstances, they resolved at last,
while it was dark, to send the old savage (Friday's
father) out as a spy, to learn if possihle something
concerning them,as what they came for, ana what tney
intended to do, and the like. The old man readily
undertook it, and stripping himself quite naked, as
most of the savages were, away he wen*. After he
had heen gone an hour or two, he hrings word that
he had heen among them undiscovered, that he found
they were two parties and of two several nations
who had war with one another, and had had a greii
hattle in their own country, and that hoth sides having
had several prisoners taken in the fight, they were hy
mere chance landed in the same island for the Havour-
big their prisoners, and making merry; hut their t
coming so hy chance to the hame place had spoiled all?
their mirth: that they were in a great rage at one an- 5
other, and were so near, that he heliever! they would \
fight again as soon as daylight uegan to ap|iear ; hut £
he did nut perceive that they had any nouon of any
hody's heing on the island hut themselves. He haw
hardly made an end of telling the storv, when they
could perceive, hy the unusual noise they made, that
the two little armies were engaged in a hloody fight.
Friday's father used all the arguments he could to
persuade our people to lie close, and not he seen;
he told them their safety consisted in it, and that they
had nothing to do hut to lie still, aad the savages
would kill one another to their hands, and the rest
would go away; and it was so to a tittle. But it waa
fmpossihle to prevail, especially upon the Englishmen,
their curiosity was so importunate upon their pruden-
tials, that titer must run out and see the hattle; how-
ever, they used some caution, via. they did not go
openly just hy their own dwelling, hut went farther
into the woods, and piaced themselves to advantage,
where they might securely see them manage the fighs,
and, as they thought, not to he seen hy them; hut it
seems the savages did see them, as we shall find here-
after.
The hattle was very fierce, and if I might helieve
Che Englishmen, one of them said he could perceive
that some of them were men of great hravery, of in-
vincihle spirits, and of great policy in guiding the
fight . The hattle, they said, held two hours hefore
they could guess which party would he heaten; hut
then that party which was nearest our people's hahita-
tion hegan to appear weakest, and, after some time
more, some of them hegan to fly; and this put our
men again into a great consternation, lest any of those
that fled should run into the grove hefore their dwell-
ing for shelter, and therehy involuntarily discover the
place, and that hy consequence the pursuers should
do the like in search of them. Upon this they re-
solved, that they would stand armed within the wall,
and whoever came into the grove they should sally
out over the wall, and kill them, so that if possihle
not one should return to give an account of it; they
ordered also, that it should he done with their swords,
or hy knocking them down with the stock of the

musket, not hy shooting them, for fear of raising an
alarm hy the noise.
As they expected it fell out: three of the routed
army fled for life, and crossing the creek ran directly
into the place, not in the least knowing whither they
went, hut running as into a thick wood for shelter.
The scout they kept to look ahroad gave notice of this
within, with this addition to our men's great satisfac-
tion, viz. that the conquerors had not pursued them,
or seen which way they were gone. Upon this the
Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would not
suffer them to kill the three fugitives; hut sending
three men out hy the top of the hill, ordered them to
go round and come in hehind them, surprise and take
them prisoners; which was done: the residue of the
conquered people fled to their canoes, and got off to
sea; the victors retired, and made no pursuit, or very
>ittle, hut drawing themselves into a hody together,
gave two great screaming shouts, which they supposed
were hy way of triumph, and so the fight ended; and
the same day, ahout three o'clock in the afternoon,
they also marched to their canoes. And thus the
Spaniards had their island again free to themselves,
their fright was over, and they saw no savages in se-
veral years after.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of
their den, and viewing the field of hattle, they found
ahout two-and-thirty dead men upon the spot; soma
were killed with great long arrows, several of which
were found sticking in their hodies, hut most of them
were killed with their great wooden swords, sixteen
or seventeen of which they found in the field of hattle,
and as many hows, with a great many arrows. These
•words were great unwieldy things, and they must ho
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 55
(hat were killed with them had their heads mashed t©
pieces, as we may say, or, as we call it in English,
their hrains knocked out, and several of their arms
and legs hroken; so that it is evident they fight with
mexpressihle rage and fury. They found not ona

wounded man that was not stone Head; for either
they stay hy their enemy till they have quite killed
them, or they carry all the wounded men, that are not
quite dead, away with them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great
while ; the sight had filled them with horror, and the
consequence appeared terrihle to the last degree, espe-
cially upon supposmg that some time or other they
should fall into the hands of those creatures, who
would not only kill them as enemies, hut kill them for
food as we kill our cattle. And they professed to me,
that the thoughts of heing eaten up like heefor mut-
ton, though it was supposed it was not to he till they
were dead, had something in it so horrihle that it naiv
seated their very stomachs,made them sick when they
thought of it, and filled their minds with unusual terror
that they were not themselves for some weeks after.
This, as I said, tamed even the three English hrum
I have heen speaking of, and for a great while aftet
they were very tractahle, and went ahout the com-
mon husiness of the whole soceiety well enough;
filanted, sowed, reaped, and hegan to he all natural-
/.'..! to the country; hut some time after this they fell
all into such simple measures again as hrought them
Into a great deal of trouhle.
They had taken three prisoners, as I had ohserved;
atid these three heing lusty stout young fellows, they
made them servants, and taught them to work for
them, and as slaves they did well enough; hut they
did not take their measures with them as I did hy my
man Friday, viz. to hegin with them upon theprino
pie of having saved their lives, and then instructed
them in the rational principles of life, much less of
teligion, civilizing and reducing them hy kind usage
and affectionate arguings ; hut as they gave thein their
food every day, so they gave them their work too, and
kept them fully employed in drudgery enough; hut
they failed in this hy it, that they never had them X»
assist them and fight for them as I had my man Fri

day, who was as true to me as the very flesh upon my
hones. i
But to come to the family part: Being all now good
friends (for common danger, as I said ahove, had
effectually reconciled them,1 they hegan to consider
their general circumstances; and the first thing that
came under their consideration was, whether, seeing
he savages particularly haunted that side of the island,
and that there were more remote and retiied paits of
t equally adapted to their way of living, and mani- 5
festly to thei- advantage, they should not rather re-
move their hahitation, and plant in soma more proper
place for their safety, and especially for the security
of their cattle and corn.
Upon this, after long dehate, it was conceived that
they should not remove their hahitation, hecause that
some time or other they thought they might hear from
their governor again, meaning me , and if I should
send any one to seek them, 1 would he sure to direct
them on that side, where if they should find the place
demolished they would conclude the savages had
killed us all, and we were gone, and so our supply
would go away too. 3
But as to their corn and cattle they agreed to re- 5
move them into the valley where my cave was, where?
the land was as proper to hoth, and where indeed jl
therowas land enough; however,upon second thoughtj jj
they altered one part of that resolution too, and re- 5
solved only to remove part of their cattle thithei, and 5
plant part of their com there; and so, if one part was 5
destroyed, the other might he saved ; and one piece of £
piudence they used, winch it was very well they did; jj
viz. that they never trusted these three savages, which S
they had taken prisoners, with knowing any thing of J
the plantation they had made in that valley, or of any
cattle they had there; much less of the cave there,
which they kept in case of necessity as a safe retreat}
and thither thev carried also the two harrels of pow.
der which I had let' them at my coming away.
But however they resolved not to change their ha-
hitation; yet they agreed, that as I had carefully co-
vered it first with a wall and fortification, and then
with a grove of trees; so seeing their safety consisted
entirely in therr heing concealed, of which they were
now fully convinced, they set to work to cover and
conceal the place yet more effectually than hefore : to
his purpose, as I had planted trees or rather thrust in
stakes which in time all grew to he trees) for soma
good distance hefore the entrance into my apartment,
they went on in the same manner, and filled up tht
rest of that whole space of ground, from the trees 1
had set quite down to the side of the creek, where, as
I said, I landed my floats, and even into the very oust
where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any
filace to land ; or any sign that there had heen any
anding thereahout. These stakes also heing of a
wood very forward to grow, as I had noted formerly,
they took care to have generally very much larger and
taller than those which I had planted, and placed them
so very thick and close, that when they had heen three
or four years grown, there was no piercing with the
eye any considerahle way into the plantation. As for
that part which I had planted, the trees were grown
as thick as a man's thigh; and among them they
placed so many other short ones, and so thick, that,
m a word, it stood like a palisadn a quarter of a mile
thick, and it was next to impossihle to penetrate it hut
with a little army to cut it all down; for a little dog
could hardly get between the trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all; for they did the same hy all
the ground to the right hand, and to the left, and
round even to the top of the hill, leaving no way, not
so much as for themselves to come out, hut hy the
ladder placed up to the side of the hill, and then lifted
op and placed again from the first stage up to the top |
which ladder, when it was taken down, nothing hut
what had wings or witcheraft to assist it, could coma
at them.
Thh was excellently well contrived, nor was it less
than what they afterwards found occasion for; which
served to convince me that as human prudence has
authority of Providence to justify it, so it has, douht"
less, the direction of Providence to set it to work, and,
would we listen carefully to the voice of it, I am fully
persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters
which our lives are now hy our own negligence suh*
jected to: hut this hy the way.
I return to the story: They lived two years after
this in perfect retirement, and had no more visits from
the savages; they had indeed an alarm given them
one morning, which put them in great consternation*
for some of the Spaniards heing out early one mon>
mg on the west side, or rather end of the island^
which, hy the wav, was that end where I never went,
for fear of heing discovered, they were surprised with
seeing ahove twenty canoes of Indians just coming on
shore.
They made the hest of their way home in hurry
enough and, giving the alarm to their comrades, they
kept close all that day and the next, going out only at
night to make ohservation; hut they had the good
luck to he mistaken, for wherever the savages went,
they did not land at that time on the island, hut pur-
sued some other design.
And now they haa another hroil with the threa
Englishmen, one of which, a most turhulent fellow,
heing in a rage at one of the three slaves which I men-
tioned they had taken,hecause the fellow had not done
something right which he hid him do, and seemed a
little un tract ahle in his shewing him, drew a hatchet
out of a frog-helt, in which he hore it hy his side, and
fell upon him, the poor savage, not to correct him hu
to kill him. One of the Spaniards who was hy, seeing
him give the fellow a harharous cut with the hatchet,
which he aimed at his head, hut struck into his
shoulder, so that he thought he had cut the poor crea-
ture's arm off, ran to him. and entreating him not to
murder the poor roan, clapt in hetween him and tha
savage to prevent the mischief.
The fellow heing eoraged the more at this, struck
st the Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would
serve him as he in ended to serve the savage; which
the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the hlow, and with a
shovel which he had in his hand (for they were work
ing in the field ahout the corn-land) knocked the hrute
down; another of the Englishmen running at the same
time to help his comrade knocked the Spaniard down,
and then two Spaniards more came to help their man,
and a third Englishman fell upon them. They had
none of them any fire-arms, or any other weapons hut
hatchets and other tools, except the third Englishman;
he had one of my old rusty cutlasses, with which he
made at the last Spaniards and wounded them hoth.
This fray set the whole family in an uoroar, and more
help coining in they took the three Englishmen pri-
soners. The next question was, what should he done
with them? they had heen so often mutinous, and
were so furious, so desperate, and so idle withal, that
they knew not what course to take with them, for they
were mischievous to the highest degree, and valued
not what hurt they did any man: so that, in short, it
was not safe to live with them.
The Spaniard who was governor, told them in so
many words, that if they had heen his own country-
men he would have hanged them all; for all laws and
all governors were to preserve society, and those who
were dangerous to the society ought to he expelled out
of it; hut as they were Englishmen, and that it was
•n the generous kindness of an Englishman that they
all owed their preservation and delirerance, he would
use them with all possihle lenity, and would leave
them to the judgment of the other two Englishmen,
who were their countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood ryp, and
sasd they desired it might not he left to them ; " r w,"
says he, " 1 am sure we ought to sentence them tothe
galtows ;" and with tha' gives an account how Will
Atkins, one of the three, had proposed to have al! the
five Englishmen join together and murder all the
Spaniards when they were in their sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to
Will Atkins: "How, Seiginor Atkins,'' says he,
*' will you murder us all? what have you to say to
that?" Tltat hardened villain was so far from denying
it, that he said it was true, and G-d d-mn him they
would do it still hefore they had done with them
* Well, hut Seiginor Atkins," said the Spaniard,
"what have we done to you that you will kill us?
And what would you get hy killling us? And what
must we do to prevent your killing us? Must we kill
you, or will you kill us? Why will you put us to the
necessity of this Seigmor Atkins?" says the Spaniard
very calmly and Smiling.
Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's
making a jest of it, that had he not heen held hy three
men, and withal had no weapons with him, it was
thought he would have attempted to have killed the
Spaniard in the middle of all the company.
This harehrained carriage ohliged them to consider
seriously what was to he done The two Englishmen
aml the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were of
opinion that they should hang one of the three for
an examplo to the rest; and that particularly it should
he he that had twice attempted to commit murder with
his hatchet: and indeed there was some reason to he
iieve he had done it, lor the poor savage was in such
a miserahle condition with the wound he had reneiv-
ed, that it was thought he could not live.
But the governor Spaniard still said, no, it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he
would never consent to put an Englishman to deaut
though he had murdered half of them; nay, ho sai
if he had heen killed himself hy an Englishman, and
had time left to speak, it should he that they should
pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on hy the governor
Spaniard, that there was no gainsaying it; and asmer-
25
eiful councils are most apt to prevail, where they an
so earnestly pressed, so they all came into it; hut then
'I was to he considered what should he done to keep
them from the mischief they desired; for all agreed,
governor and all, that means were to he used for pre-
serving the society from danger. After a long dehans
it was agreed that, first, they should he disarmed, and
not permitted to have either gun, or powder, or shot,
or sword, or any weapon, and should he turned ous
of the society, and left to live where they would, and
how they could hy themselves; hut that none of the
rest, either Spaniards, or English should converse w ith
them, speak with them, or have any thing to do with
them; that they should he forhid to come within a
certain distance of the place where the rest dwelt; and
that if they offered to commit any disorder, so as to
spoil, hurn, kill, or destroy any of the corn, plantings,
huildings, fences, or cattle helonging to the society,
that they should die without mercy, and would shoo!
them wherever they could find them.
The governor, a man of great humanity, musing
upon the sentence, considered a little upon it, ana
turning to the two honest Englishman, said, "Ho!d,
you must reflect, that it will he long ere they can raise
corn and cattle of their own,and they must not starvel
we must therefore allow them provisions." So he
caused to he added,that they should have a proportion
of corn given them to last them eight months, and for
seed to sow, hy which time they m:ght he supposed to
raise some of their own ; that they should have six
saik h-goats, four he-goats, and six kids given them, as
well for present suhsistence as for a store ; and that
they should have tools given them for their work in
he field; such as six hatchets, an axe, a saw, and the
ike: hut they should have none of these tools or pro-
visions unless they would swear solemnly that they
would not hurt or injure any of the Spaniards wito
them or their fellow Englishmen.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned
them out to shift for themselves. They went away
63
sullen and refractory, as neither contented to go away
or to stay ; hut as there was no remedy they went,
pretending to go and choose a place where they should
settle themselves, to plant and live hy themselves; and
some provtsions were given, hut no weapons.
Ahout f,ur or five days after they came again foi
some victuals, and gave the governor an account
where they had pitched their tents, and marked them-
selves out an hahitation or plantation: it was a very
convenient place indeei, on the remotest part of tha
sland, N. E. much ahout the place where I providen-
tially ^anded in my first voyage when I was driven
out to sea, the Lord alone knows whither, in my
foolish attempt to surround the island.
Here they huilt themsetves two handsome huts, and
eontrived them in a manner like my first hahitation,
heing close under the side of a hill, having some trees
growing already to the three sides of it; so that hy
planting others it would he very easily covered from
the sight unlessnarrowly searched for. They desired
some dry goat-skins for heds and covering, which
were given them ; and upon their giving their words
that they would not disturh the rest, or injure any of
their plantations they gave them hatchets, and what
other tools they could spare; some peas, harley, and
rice, for sowing, and, in a word, any thing they want-
ad hut arms and amunition.
They lived in this separate condition ahout six
months, and had got in their first harvest, though the
quantity was hut small, the parcel of land they had
planted heing hut little; for indeed having all tneir
plantation to form, they had a great deal of work upon
their hands and when they came to make hoards,
and pots, and such things, they were quite out of their
element and could make nothing of it; and when the
rainy season came on, for want of a cave in the earth,
they could not keep their grain dry, and it was in
great danger of spoiling: and this humhled them
much ; so they came and hegged the Spaniards to help
the:n, which they very readily did ; and in four dayf
C4
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
worked a great hole in the side of the hill for them:
nig enough to secure their corn and other things from
the ram: hut it was hut a poor place at hest compar-
ed to mine; and especially as mine was 'hen ; for the
Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made severa1
new apartments in it.
Ahout three quarters of a year after this separation
a new frolic took these rogues, which, together with
the former villany they had committed, hrought mis-
chief enough upon them, and had very near heen the
ruin of the whole colony. The three new associates
hegan, it seems, to he weary of the lahorious life they
led, and that without hope of hettering their circum-
stances ; and a whim took them that they could make
a voyage to the continent from whence the savages
came, and would try if they could not seize upon some
prisoners *tnong the natives there, and hring them
the work for them.
The project was not so preposterous if they had
gone no farther; hut they did nothing and proposed
nothing hut had either mischief in the design or mis-
chief in the event; and if 1 may give my opinion,
they seemed to he under a hlast from Heaven ; for if
we will not allow a visihle curse to pursue visihle
crimes, how shall we reconcile the events of things
with divine justice? It was certainly an apparent ven-
geance on their crime uf mutiny and piracy that
hrought them to the state they were in; and as they
shewed not the least remorse for the crime, hut added
new villanies to it, such as particularly that piece of
monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor slave hecause
he did not, or perhaps could not understand to do what
he was directed, and to wound him in such a manner
as, no question, made him a cripple all his life, and in
a place where no surgeon or medicine could he had
for his cure ; and what was still worse, the murderous
intent, or, to do iustice to the crime, the intentional
murder, foi such to he sure it was, as was afterwards

lahorious part of
the formed design they all laid to nr Tder the Span-
iard? in cold hlood, and in their sleep
But I leave ohserving, and return to the story:
The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one
morning, and in very humhle terms desired to he ad-
mined to speak with them; the Spaniards veri readily
heard what they had to say, which was this, that they
were tired of living in the manner they did, that they
were not handy enough to make the necessaries they
wanted ; and that, ha\ing no help, they touud they
should he starved: hut if the Spaniards would give
them leave to take one of the canoes which they came
over in, and give them arms and ammunition propor-
tioned for their defence, they would go over to the
main, and seek their fortune, and so deliver them
from the trouhle of supplying them with any other
provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to he rid of them;
hut yet very honestly represented to them the certain
destruction they were running into; told them they
had suffered such hardships upon that very spot that
they could, without any spirit of prophecy, tell them
that they would he starved or murdered, and hade
them consider of it.
The men replied audaciously,they should he starved
If they stayed here, for they could not work, and
would not work; and they could hut he starved
ahroad ; and they were murdered, there was an end
of them, they had no wives or children to cry after
them ; and, in short, insisted importunately upon their
demand, declaring that they would go, whether they
would give them any arms or no.
The Spaniards told them with great kindness, thai
If they were resolved to go, they should not go like
naked men, and ho in no condition to defend them-
selves, and that though they could ill spate their fire-
arms, having not enough for themselves, yet they
would letuem have two muskets, a pistol, and a cut-
lass, and each man a hatchet, which they thought sus-
ficient f'.r them
Vol. 11.-

In a word, they accepted the offer, and having
haked them hread enough to serve them a month, and
given them as much goat's flesh as they could eat while
it was sweet, and a great hasket full of dried grapes,
a pot full of fresh water, and a young kid alive to
kill, they holdly set out in a canoe for a voyage over
the sea, where it was at least forty miles hroad.
The hoat was indeed a large one, and would have
very well carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore
was rather too hig for them to manage; hut as they
had a fair hreeze and the flood-tide with them, they
did well enough; they had made a mast of a long i
pole, and a sail of four large goat-skins dried, which 5
they had sewed or laced together; and away they 5
went merrily enough; the Spaniardscalled after them, S
"lion veajo;" and no man ever thought of seeing i
them any more. 2
The Spaniards would often say to one another, and 5
the two honest Englishmen who remained hehind, s
how quietly and comfortahly they lived now those i
three turhulent fellows were gone; as for their ever f
coming again, that was the remotest thing from their i
thoughts could he imagined; when, hehold, after }
twenty-two days ahsence, one of the Englishmen he- i
ing ahroad upon his planting work, sees three strange?
men coming towards him at a distance, two of them J
with guns upon their shoulders. i
Away runs the Englishman, as if he was hewitched, i
and hecame frighted and amazed, to the governot
Spaniard, and tells him they were all undone, for
there were strangers landed upon the island, he could
not tell who. The Spaniard pausing awhile, says to
him, " How do you mean, you cannot tell who ? They
are savages to he sure."—" No, no," says the Eng-
lishman, "they are men in clothes, with arms."—
"Nay then," says the Spaniard, "why are you con-
cerned ? If they are not savages, they must he friends;
for there is no Christian nation upon earth hut will
ilo us good rather than harm."
While tiny were dehating thus, came the three Eng.

Sshmen, and standing without the wood which wai
new-planted, hallooed to them ; they presently knew
their voices, and so all the wonder of that kind ceas-
ed. But now the admiration was turned upon ano-
ther question, viz. What could he the matter, and
what made them come hack again?
It wag not long hefore they hrought the men in;
and inquiring where they had heen, and what they had
heen doing? they gave them a full account of thtir
voyage in a few words, viz. that they reached the land
In two days, or something less, hut finding the people
alarmed at theircoming, and preparing with hows and
arrows to fight them, they durst not go on shore, hut
sailed on to the northward six or seven hours, till
they came to a great opening, hy which they perceived
that the land they saw from our island was not the
main, hut an island : that entering that opening of the
sea, they saw another island on the right hand north,
and several more west; and heing resolved to land
somewhere, they put over to one of the islands which
lay west, and went holdly on shore; that they found
the people were courteous and friendly to them, and
they gave them several roots, and some dried fish,
and appeared very sociahle : and the women, as well
as the men, were very forward to supply them with
any thing they could get for them to eat, and hrought
it to them a great way upon their heads.
They continued here four days, and inquired, as
well as they could of them hy signs, what nations
were this way, and that way ; and were told of seve-
ral fierce and Mrrihle people, that lived almost every
way; who, as they made known hy signs to them,
used to eat men; hut as for themselves, they said, that
they never ate men or women, except only such ai
they took in the wars; and then they owned that they
made a great feast, and ate their prisoners.
The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of
that kind, and they told them two moons ago, point-
ing to the moon, and then to two fingers; and that
their great king had two hundred prisoners now.
which he had taken in his war, and they were feed-
ing them to make them rat for the next feast. The
Englishmen seemed mighty desirous to see those pri
soners, hut the others mistaking them, thought they
were desirous to have some of them to carry away for
their own eating. So they heckoned to them, point
fng to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising;
which was to signify, that the next morning at sun
rising they would hring some for them; and accord
ingly the next morning they hrought down five women
and eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen
to carry with them on their voyage, just as we would
hring so many cows and oxen down to a sea-port
town to victual a ship.
As hrutish and harharous as these fellows were at
home, their stomachs turned at this sight, and they did
not know what to do; to refuse the prisoners would
have heen the highest affront to the savage gentry that
offered them; and what to do with them they knew
not; however, upon some dehate, they resolved to
accept of them; and in return they gave the savages
that hrought them, one of their hatchets, an old key,
a knife, and six or seven of their hullets, which, though
they did not understand, they seemed extremely
pleased with ; and then tying the poor creatures'hands
behind them, they (the people) dragged the prisoners
mto our hoat for our men.
The Englishmen were ohliged to come away as
soon as they had them, or else they that gave them
this nohle present would certainly have expected that
they should have gone to work with them, have kill,
ed two or three of them the next morning, and pes-
haps have invited the donors to dinner.
But having taken their leave with all the respect
«nd thanksthat could well pass hetween people,where,
on either side, they understood not one word they
could say, they put off with their hoat, and came hack
towards the first island, where when they arrived,
they set eight of their prisoners at liherty, there heing
too many of them for their occasion.
In their voyage they endeavoured to have some
communication with their prisoners, hut it was im-
possihle to make them understand any thing; nothing
they could say to them, or give them, or do for them,
hut was looked upon as going ahout to murder them:
they first of all unhound them, hut the poor creatures
screamed at that, especially the women, as if they had
lust felt the knife at their throats; for they immedi-
ately concluded they were unhound on purpose to he
killed.
If they gave then any thing to eat, it was the same
thing; then they concluded it was for fear they should
sink in flesh, and so not he fat enough to kill; if they
looked at one of them more particularly, the party
presently concluded it was to see whether he or she
was fattest and fittest to kill first; nay, after they had
hrought them quite over, and hegan to use them kindly
and treat them well, still they expected every day to
make a dinner or supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccount-
able history or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard
asked them where their new fam:ly was? And heing
told that they had hrought them on shore, and put
them into one of their huts, and were come to heg
some victuals for them ; they (the Spaniards) and the
other two Englishmen, that is to say, the whole co-
lony, resolved to go all down to the place and see
tftem, and did so, and Friday's father with them.
When they came into the hut, there they sat all
hound; for when they hed hrought them on shore
they hound their hands, that they might not take the
hoat and make their escape; there, I say, they sat,
all of them stark naked. First, there were three men,
lusty, comely fellows, well shaped, straight and fair
limns, ahout thirty or thirty-five years of age, and five
women; whereof two might he from thirty to forty,
two more not ahove twenty-four or twenty-five, and
the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, ahout sixteen or se-
venteen. The women were well favoured, agreeahle
persons, hoth in shape and features, ciuy tawny; and

two of them, had they heen perfect white, wct ild have
passed for handsome women, even in Londai itself;
having very pleasant, agreeahle countenances, and of
a very modest hehaviour, especially when they came
afterwards to he clothed, and dressed, as they called
it, though that dress was very indifferent it must he
confessed, of which hereafter.
The sight, you may he sure was something uncouth
to our Spaniards, who were (to give them a just cha -
racier) men of the hest hehaviour, of the most calm,
sedate tempers, and perfect good humour that ever I
met with ; and, in particular, of the most modesty, as
will presently appear; I say the sight was very un.
couth, to see three naked men and five naked women,
all together, hound and in the most miserahle circum-
stances that human nature could he supposed to he,
viz. to he expecting every moment to he dragged out,
and have their hrains knocked ont, and then to he
eaten up like a calf that is killed for a dainty.
The first thing they did was to cause the old 1ndit.ni
Friday's father, to eo in and see first if he knew any
of them, and then if he understood any of their speech.
As soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously
at them, hut knew none of them; neither could any o!
them understand a word he said, or a sign he could
make, except one of the women.
However, this was enough to answer the end, which
was to satisfy them, that the men into whose hands
they were fallen were Christians; that they ahhorred
eatmg of men or women, and that they might he sure
they would not he killed. As soon as they were as-
tured of this they discovered such a joy, and hy such
awkward and several ways as is hard to descrihe, for
t seems they were of several nations.
The woman who was their interpriter was hid, in
the next place, to 'isk them if they were willing to he
servants, and to work for the men who had hrought
them away to save their lives? At which they all fell
a-dancing; and presently one fell to taking up this,
and another that, any thing that lay next, toca/ry O0
I
their shoulders, to intimate that they were willing ta
The governor who found that the having women
among them would presently he attended with some
mconvemency, and might occasion some strife, and
perhaps hlood, asked the three men what they intend-
ed to do with these women, and how they mtended
to use them, whether as servants or as women? Ont
of the Englishmen answered very holdly and readiljt
that they would use them as hoth. To which the go-
vernor said, " I am not going to restrain you from
It; you are your own masters as to that; hut this J
think is hut just, for avoiding disorders and quarrels
among you, and I desire it of you for that reason only,
viz. that you will all engage, that if any of you take
any of these women as a woman, or wife, he shall
take hut one; and that, having taken one, none else
should touch her; for though we cannot marry any of
you, yet it is hut reasonahle that while you stay here,
the woman any of you takes should he maintained
hy the man that takes her, and should he his wife; I
mean," says he, " while he continues here; and that
none else should have any thing to do with her." All
this appeared so just, that every one agreed to it with-
out any difficulty.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniard if they
designed to take any of them ? But every one answer-
ed, "No:" some of them said they had wives in
Spain; and the others did not like women that were
not Christians; and all together declared, that they
*ould not touch one of them ; which was an instance
of such virtue as I have not met with in all my tra-
vels. On the other hand, to he short, the five Eng-
lishmen took them every one a wife; that is to say, a
temporary wife; and so they set up a new form of
living for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived in
my old hahitation, which they had enlarged exceed-
mgly within ; the three servants, which they had ta-
ken in the late hattle of the savages lived with them;
•*id these carried on the main part of the colon/

supplying all the rest with food, and assisting them
in any thing as they could, or as they found necessity
required.
But the wonder of this story was how five such re-
fractory, ill-matched fellows should agree ahout thess
woman, and that two of them should not pitch upon
the same woman, especially seeing two or three of
them were, without comparison, more agreeahle than
the others; hut they took a good way enough to pre-
•ers quarreling among themselves; for they set the
five women hy themselves in one of their huts, and
they went all into the other hut, and drew lots among
them who should chouse first
.
He that drew to choose first, went away hy him-
self to the hut where the poor naked creatures were,
and fetched her out he chose; and it was worthy oh-
serving, that he that chose first took her that was'rec-
koned the homeliest and the oldest of the five, which
made mirth enough among the rest; and even the
Spaniards laughed at it; hut the fellow considered
hetter than any of them, that it was application and
husiness that they were to expect assistance in as
much as any thing else, and she proved the hest wife
In the parcel.
When the poor women saw themselves in a row
thus, and fetched out one hy one, the terrors of thetr
condition returned upon them again, and they firmly
helieved that they were now going to he devoured:
accordingly when the English sailor came in and
fetched out one of them, the rest set up a most lament-
ahle cry, and hung ahout her and took their leave of
her with such agonies and such affection as would
have grieved the hardest heart in the world ; nor was
it possihle for the Englishmen to satisfy thorn that
they were not to he immediately murdered, till they
fetched the old man, Friday's father, who instantly
let them know that the five men who had fetched them
t one hy one, had chosen them for their wives.
When they had done this, and the fright the wo
: were in was a little over, the men went to work,

n
and the Spaniards came and helped them , and in a
few hours they had huilt them every one a new hut
or tent for their lodging apart; for those they had al
ready were crowded with their tools, household-stuns
and provisions. The three wicked ones had pitched
farthest off, and the two honest ones nearer, hut hoth
on the north shore of the island, so that they conti-
nued separate as hefore; and thus my island was peo-
pled in three places, and, as I might say, three towns
were hegun to he planted.
And here it is very well worth ohserving, that as
it often happens in the world, (what the wise ends of
God's providences are in such a disposition of thinga
I cannot say) the two honest fellows had the two
worst wives; and the three reprohates, that were scarce
worth hanging, that were fit for nothing, and neither
seemed horn to do themselves good, or any one else,
had threeclever,diligent, carcful.and ingenious wiv6Sf
not that the two first were ill wives as to their temper
or humour; for all the five were most willing, qoiet,
Inssive, and suhjected creatures, rather like slaves
than wives; hut my meaning is, they were not alike
i apahte, ingenious, or industrious, or alike cleanly
•.nri neat
.
Another ohservation I must make, to the honour
of a diligent application on the one hand, and to the
disgrace of a slothful, negligent, idle temper on the
•ther, that when I came to the place, and viewed the
several improvements, planting, and management of
the several little colonies; the two men had so far out-
gone the three, that there was no comparison ; they
had indeed hoth of them as much ground laid out for
corn as they wanted; and the reason was, hecat.se,
according to my rule, nature dictated, that it was to
no purpose to sow more corn than they wanted; hut
the difference of the cultivation, of the planting, of the
fence?, and indeed every thing else, was easy to he
seen at first view.
The two men had innumerahle young trees planted
VOL. II.

ahout their huts, that when you came to the place no-
thing was to he seen hut a wood; and though they
had their plantation twice demolished, once hy their i
own countrymen, and once hy the enemy, as shall he i
shewn in its place; yet they had restored all again, j
and every thmg was flourishing and thriving ahout 5
them . they had grapes planted in order, and managed 5
like a vineyard, though they had themselves never s
seen any thing of that kind; and hy their good order-
3ng their vines, their grapes were as good again as any
of the others. They had also formed themselves a re-
treat in the thickest part of the woods, where, though
there was not a natural cave, as I had found, yet they
made one with incessant lahour of their hands, and
where, when the mischief which followed happened,
they secured their wives and children so as they could
never he found ; they having, hy sticking innumera-
£ hle stakes and poles of the wood, which, as I said,
J grew so easib, made a grove impassihle except in one
i place, where they climed up to get over the out si da
,j part, and then went in hy ways of their own leaving,
> As to the three reprohates, as I justly call them,
though they were much civilized hy their new settle-
ment compared to what they were hefore, and were
not so quarrelsome, having not the same opportunity,
yet one of the certain companions of a profligate mind
never left them, and that was their idleness. It waa
true, thry planted corn and made fences; and Solo-
mon's words were never hetter verified than in them i
M I went hy the vineyard of the slothful, and it was
overgrown with thorns;" for when the Spaniards came
to view their crop, they could not see it in some placet
for weeds; the hedge had several gaps in it, where
the wild goats had gotten in and eaten up the corn;
perhaps here and there a dead hush was crammed in
to stop them out for the present, hut it was only shut-
ting the stahle door after the steed was stolen ; where-
as, when they looked on the colony of the other two,
there was the very face of industry and success upon
ail they did; there was not i weed to he seen In all

their corn, or a gap in any of their hedges; and they,
on the other hand, verified Solomon's words in another
place: "The diligent hand niaketh rich ;" for every
thing grew and thrived, and they had plenty within
and without; they had more tame catile than the
others, more utensils and necessaries within door*,
and yet more pleasure and diversion to.
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy
and cleanly within doors; and having learnt the Eng-
lish ways of dressing and cooking from one of trw
other Englishmen, who, as I said, was a cook's mate
on hoard the ship, they dressed their hushands' vic-
tuals very nicely; whereas the other could not he
hrought to understand it; hut then the hushand, who
as 1 said, had heen cook's mate, did it himself; hut
as for the hushands of the three wives, they loiiered
ahout, fetched turtles' eggs, and caught fish and hirds;
In a word, any thine, hut lahour, and they fared ac-
cordingly. The diligent lived well and comfortahly;
and the slothful lived hard and heggarly ; and so I he-
lieve, generally speaking, it is all over the world.
But now I come to a scene different from all that
had happened hefore, either to them or me; and the
I hem of the story was this:
Early one morning there came on shore five or six
canoes of Indians, or savages, call them which you
please ; and there is no room to douht that they came
upon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves; hut
that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and
to our men too, that they did not concern themselves
ahout it as I did ; hut having heen made sensihle hy
their experience, that their only husiness was to lie
concealed, and that, if they were not seen hy any o|
the savages, they would gu off again quietly when their
business was done, having as yet not the least notion
•f there heing any inhahitants in the island : I say,
having heen made sensihle of this, they had nothing
to do hut to give notice to all the three plantations to
keep within doors, and not to shew themselves; only
placing a scout in a proper place, to give notice when
the hoats went off to sea again.
This was without douht, very right; hut a disaster
iled all these measures, and made it known among
savages that there were inhahitants there, which
was, in the end, the desolation of almost the whore
colony. After the canoes with the savages were gone
off, the Spaniards peeped ahroad again, and some of
them had the curiosity to go to the place where they
had heen, to see what they had heen doing. Here, to
their great surprise, they found three savages left he-
hind, and lying fast asleep upon the ground ; it wm
supposed they had either heen so gorged with their
inhuman feast, that, like heasts, they were^asleep, and
would not stir when the others went, or they were
wandered into the woods, and did not come hack in
time to he taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight
and perfectly at a loss what to do; the Spaniard go-
vernor, as it happened, was with them, ana his advice
was asked; hut he professed he knew not what to do;
as for slaves they had enough already; and as to
killing them, they were none of them inclined to that
.
The Spaniard governor told me they could not think
of sheading innocent hlood; for as to them, the poor
creatures had done no wrong, invaded none of their
property; and-they thought they had no just quarrel
agamst them to take away their lives.
And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards, oh
serve, that let all the accounts of Spamsh cruelty in
Mexico and Peru he what they will, I never met with
seventeen men, of any nation whatsoever, in any fo
reign country, who were so universally modest, tem-
perate, virtuous, so very good humoured, and so cour-
teous as these Spaniards ; and, as to cruelty, they had
nothing of it in their very nature; no inhumanity, no
harharity, no outrageous passions, and yet all of them
men of great courage and spirit
.
Their temper and calmness had appeared in theit
bearing the insufferahle usage, of the three English*
men , and their justice and humanity appeared now
in the case of the savages as ahove. After some con-
sultation they resolved upon this, that they would lie
still a while longer, till if possihle, these three men
might he gone; hut then the governor Spaniard recol-
lected that the three savages had no hoat; and that if
they were left to rove ahout the island, they would
certainly discover that there were inhahitants in it,
and so they should he undone that way.
Upon this they went hack again, and there lay thei
fellows fast asleep still; so they resolved to awaken
them,and take them prisoners; and they did so. The
poor fellows were strangely frighted when they were
seized upon and hound, and afraid, like the women,
that they should he murdered and eaten; for it seems
those people think all the world do as they do, eating
men's flesh ; hut they were soon made easy as to that:
and away they carried them.
It was very happy for them that they did not carry
them home to theircastle; I mean to my palace under
the hill; hut they carried them first to the hower,
where was the chief of their conntry work ; such as
the keeping the goats, the planting the corn, &c.; and
afterwards they carried them to the hahitation of th*
two Englishmen.
Here they were set to work, though it was not much
they had for them to do; and whether it was hy neg-
ligence in guarding them, or that they thought tlx
fellows could not mend themselves, I know not, hut
one of them ran away, and taking into the woods,
they could never hear of him more.
They had good reason to helieve he got home again
soon after in some other hoats or canoes of savages,
who came on shore three or four weeks afterwards,
and who, carrying on their revels as usual, went off
again in two days time. This thought terrified them
exceedingly; for they concluded, and that uot without
good cause indeed, that if this fellow got safe homo
among his comrades, he would certainly give them an
account that there were people in the island, as also
how weak and few the, were; for this savage as I
ohserved hefore, had never heen told, a*I it was wry
happy he had not, how many they were, or where
they lived, nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of
any of the r guns, much less had they shewn them any
o her of their retired places, such as the cave m tha
"alley, or the new retreat which the two Engl.shmen
haH made, and the like. . .. -
The fint testimony they had that this fellow had
given intelligence of them was, that ahoutlwojnonth.
after this, six canoes of savages, with ahout seven or
eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the
north side of the island, where they never used to
"me before! and landed ahout an
at a convenient place, ahout a mile from thei hah ta
"on of the two Irishmen, where this escaped man
had heen kept. As the Spaniard governor,»id, had
they heen all there the damage would not have heen
so much, for not a man of them would have escaped.
"t the case differed now very much ; for two mei to
fifty were two much odds. The two men had he
happiness to discover them ahout a league off,» that
it was ahove an hour hefore they landed, and as they
Unded ahout a mile from their huts, it was some t me
Eefore they could come at them. Now havmg grea
reason to helieve that they were hetrayed, the first
S?""hey did was to hind the slaves which were left,
2nd! cause two of the three men ^"'^^
with the women, who, it seems, proved very fauhlul
to them, to lead then, with their two, wtve*^nwhat,
ever they could carry away with hem, tthein
tired nlace in the woods, which I have spoKen or
5Sove,P and there to hind the two fellows hand and
loot till they heard farther.
In the next place, seeing the savages were^al coma
on shore, and that they hent their course
78 LIFE AND ADVENTURES
were kept, and drove them all out, leavmg their goau
to straede into the wood, whither they pleased, tha
toSe*might think they were all hred wild; hut
79
(he rogue who came with them was too cunning for
that, and gave them an acco int of it all, for they went
directly to the place.
When the poor frighted men had secured their wives
and goods, they sent the other slave they had of the
three, who came with the women, and who was at
their place hy accident, away to the Spaniards with
all speed, tn give them the alarm, and desire speedy
help; and in the mo.m time they took their arms, and
what ammunition they had, and retreated towards
the place in the wood where their wives were sent,
keepmg at a distance; yet so that they might see, if
possihle, which way the savages took.
They had not gone far hut that, from a rising ground,
they could see the little army of their enemies come
on directly to their hahitation, and in a moment more
could see all their huts and household-stun''flaming up
together, to their great grief and mortification; for
they had a very great loss, and to them irretrievahle
at least for some time. They kept their station for a
while, till they found the savages, like wild heasts,
spread themselves all over the place, rummaging
every way, and every place they could think of, it
search for prey, and in particular for the people, of
whom it plainly appeared they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen, seeing this, thinking them-
selves not secure where they stood, as it was likely
some of the wild people might come that way, so they
might come too many together, thought it proper to
make another retreat ahout half a mile farther, he-
lieving, as it afterwards happened, that the farther
they strolled, the fewer would he together.
The next halt was at the entrance into a very thick
grown part of the woods, and where an old trunk of
a tree stood, which was hollow, and vastly large |
and in this tree they hoth took their standing, resolv-
ing to see what might offer.
They had not stood there long, hut two of the sa-
vages appeared running directly that way, as if they
aad already notice where they stood, and were com-
trig up to attack them; and a little way farther they
to pied three more coming af1er them, and five mora
Iieyond them, all coming the same way; hesides which,
they saw seven or tight more at a distance, running
another way; for in a word, they ran every way,
like sportsmen heating for their game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity, u he,
ther they should siand and keep their posture, or fly \
hut after a very short dehate with themselves, they
considered that if the savages ranged the country thua
hefore help came, they might, perhaps, find out their
retreat in the woods, and then all would he lost; sc
they resolved to stand them there ; and if there were
too many to deal with, then they would get to the top
of the tree, from whence they douhted not to defend
themselves, fire excepied, as long as their ammuni-
tion lasted, though all the savages that were landed,
which were nearfiUy, were to attack them.
Having resolved upon this, they next considered
whether they should fire at the two first, or wait for
the three, and so take the middle party, hy which the
two and the five that followed would he separated i
at length they resolved to let the two first pass hy,
unless they should spy them in the tree, and come to
attack them. The two first savages also confirmed
them in this resolution, hy turning a little from them
towards another part of the wood ; hut the three, and
the five after them,came forwardsdirectlyto the tree,
as if they had known the Englishmen were there.
Seeing them come so straight towards them, they
W LIFE AND ADVENTURES
they resolved to fire hut one at a time, perhaps the
first shot might hit them all three; to which purpose,
the man who was to fire put three or four hullets into
his piece, and having a fan loop-hole, as it were, from
• hroken hole in the tree, he took a pure aim, without
heing seen, waiting till they were within ahout thirty
yards of the tree, so that he conic not miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came
on, they plainly taw, that one of the three was the
runaway savage that had escaped from them, and they
hoth knew him distinctly, and resolved that, if pooi.
hle, he should uot escape, though they should hoth
fire; so the other stood ready with his piece, that :t
he did not drop at the first shot, he should he sure to
have a second.
But the first was too good a marksman to miss hra
aim ; for as the savages kept nea r one another, a littla
hehind in a line, in a word he fired, and hit two of
them directly ; the foremost was killed outright, heing
shot in the head ; the second, which was the runaway
Indian, was shot through the hody and fell, hut was
not quite dead; and the third had a little scratch in
the shoulder, perhaps hy the same hall that went
through the hody of the second ; and heing dreadfully
frighted, though uot much hurt, sat down upon the
ground, screaming and yelling in a hideous manner.
The five that were hehind, more frighted with tha
noise than sensihle of their danger, stood still at first;
for the woods made the sound a thousand times higger
than it really was; the echoes rattling from one side
to another, and the fowls rising from all parts, scream-
ing and making, every sort, a several kind of noise,
according to their kind; just as it was when I fired
<he first gun that, perhaps, was ever shot off in that
place since it was an island.
However, all heing silent again, and they not know'
fag what the matter was, came on unconcerned, till
'hey came to that place where their companions lay,
in a condition miserahle enough; and here the poor
tgnorant creatures, not sensihle that they were within
reach of the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over
the wounded man, talking, and, as may he supposed,
inquiring of him how he came to he hurt; and who
it is very rational to helieve, told them that a flash -rf
fire first, and immediately after that thunder from
their gods, had killed those two, and wounded him.
This, I say, is rational; for nothing is n-ore ceria v.
than that, as they saw no man near them, so they had
Vox- II —

never heard a gun in all their lives, or so much at
heard o1 a gun; neither knew they any thing of kill
ing or wounding at a distance with fire and hullets;
if they had, one might reasonahly helieve that they
would not have stood so unconcerned in viewing the
fate of their fellows without some apprehension ot
their own.
Our two men, though as they confessed to me, It
grieved them to he ohliged to kill so many poor crea
Hires, who at the same time had no notion of their
danger; yet, having them all thus in their power, and
the first having loaded his piece again, resolved to let
fly hoth together among them, and singling out hy
agreement which to aim at, they shot together, and
killed, or very much wounded four of them ; the fifth,
frighted even to death, though not hurt, fell with the
rest; so that our men, seeing them all fall together,
thought they had killed them alL
The helief that the savages were all killed made our
two men come holdly out from the tree hefore they
bad charged their guns again, which was a wrong step,
and they were under some surprise when they came
to the place and found no less than four of the men
alive, and of them two very little hurt, and one not
at all; this ohliged them to fall upon them with the
stocks of their muskets; and first they made sure of
the runaway savage that had heen the cause of all the
mischief, and of another that was hurt in his knee,
and put them out of their pain. Then the man that
was not hurt at all came and kneeled down to them
with his iwo hands held up, and made piteous moan
to them hy gestures and signs for his life, hut could
not say one word to them that they could understand.
However, they signified to him to sit down at the
toot of a tree therehy ; and one of the Englishmen,
with a piece of rope-twine which he had hy great
chance in his pocket, tied his feet fast together, and
his hands hehmd him, and there they left him ; and
with what speed they could, made after the other two
which were gone hefore, fearing they, or any more uf


them, should find the way to their coveted place in
the woods, where their wives and the few goods they
had left, lay. They came once in sight of the two
men, hut it was at a great distance; however they had
the satisfaction to see them cross over a valley to-
wards the sea, the quite contrary way from that which
led to their retreat, which they were afraid of; and
heing satisfied with that, they went hack to the tree
where they left their prisoner, who as they supposed
was delivered hy his comrades; for he was gone, and
the two piecesof rope-yarn with which they had hound
him, lay just at the foot of the tree.
They were now in as great a concern as hefore, not
knowing what course to take, or how near the enemy
might he, or in what numhers; so they resolved to go
away to the place where their wives were, to see if
all was well thi re, and to make them easy who were
in fright enough to he sure,; for though the savages
were their own country-folk9, yet they were most ter-
rihly afraid of them, and perhaps the more, for the
knowledge they had of thetn.
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 85
had heen in the wood, and very near the place, hut
had not found it; for indeed it was inaccessihle, hy
the trees standing so thick, as Itefore, unless the per-
sons seeking it had heen directed hy those that knew
it, which these were not; they found, then fore, every
thing very safe, only the women in a terrihle fright
.
While they were here they had the comfort of seven
of the Spaniards coming to their assistance ; the other
ten with their servants, and old Friday, 1 mean Fri-
day's father, were gone in a hody to defend their
hower, and the corn and cattle that were kept there,
in case the savages should have roved orer to that
ride of the country; hut they did not spread so far.
With the seven Spaniards came one of the savages,
who, as I said, were their prisoners formerty, and with
them also came the savage whom the Englishmin had
left hound hand and foot at the tree; for it seems
they came that way, saw the slaughter of the seven

men, and unhound the eighth, and hrought hint along
with them, where, however, they were ohliged to hind
him again, as they had done the two others, who were
left when the third run away.
The prisoners hegan now to he a hurden to them;
and they were so afraid of their escaping, that they
thought they were under an ahsolute necessity to kill
them for their own preservation: however, the Spa-
niard governor would not consent to it; hut ordered,
that they should he sent out of the way to my old cave
in the valley, and he kept there with two Spaniards
to guard them and give them food ; which was done;
and they were hound there hand and foot for thai
night
.
When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen
were so encouraged, that they could not satisfy them-
selves, to stay any longer there; hut taking five of the
Spaniatds, and themselves, with four muskets and a
pistol among them, and two stout quarter staves, away -
they went in quest of the savages. And first, they*
came to the tree where the men lay that had heen
killed; hut it was easy to see that some more of the
savages had heen there; for they attempted to carry
their dead men away, and had dragged two of them
a good way, hut had given it over; from thence they
advanced to the first rising ground where they had
stood and seen their camp destroyed, ano where they
had the mortification still to see some of the smoke;
hut neither could they here see any of tlie savages i
they then resolved, though with all possihle caution,
to go forward towards their ruined plantation; hut a
little hefore they came thither, coming in sight of the
sea-shore, they saw plainly the savages all emharking
again in their canoes, in order to he gone.
They seemed sorry at first that there was no way to
come at them to give them a parting hlow ; hut upon
Ihe whole were very well satisfied to he rid of them.
The poor Englishmen heing now twice ruined, and
all theii improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed
to come and help them to rehuild, and to assist them
with needful supplies. Their three countrymen, who
were not yet noted for having the least inclination to
do any thing good, yet, as soon as they heard of it
(for they,livingremote,knew nothing till all was over),
came and offered their help and assistance, and did
very friendly work for several days to restore their
hahitations and make necessaries for them ; and thus
in a little time they were set upon their legs again.
Ahout two days after this they had the farther sab
isfaction of seeing three of the savages' canoes coma
driving on shore, and at some distance from them,
with two drowned men : hy which they had reason to
helieve that they had met with a storm at sea, which
had overset some of them, for it hlew very hard iho
night after they went off
However, as some might miscarry, so on the other
hand enough of them escaped to inform the rest, as
well of what they had done, as of what happened to
them; and to whet them on to another enterprise ol
the same nature, which they, it seems, resolved to at-
tempt, with sufficient force to carry all hefore them ,
for except what the first man told them of inhahitants,
they could say little to it of their own knowledge; for
they never saw one man, and the fellow heing killed
that had aftVmed it, they had no other witness to con-
firm it to them.
It was five or six months after this hefore they heard
any more of the savages, in which ,ime our men wera
m hopes they had not forgot their former had luck,
or had given over the hopes of hetter; when on a sud-
den they were invaded with a most formidahle fleet
of no less than twenty-eight canoes, full of savages,
armed with hows and airows, great cluhs, wooden
swords,and such-like engines of war; and thoy hrought
such numhers with them, that in short it put *A oui
people into the utmost consternation.
As they came on shore in the evening, and at the
easternmost side of the island, our men had that night
to consult and consider what to do; and in the firpt
place, knowing that their heing entirely concealed was
their only safety hefore, and would much more he so
now, whde the numher of their enemies was so great,
they therefore resolved, first of all to take down tha
huts which were huilt for the two Englishmen, and
drive away their goats to the old cave; hecause they
supposed the savages would go directly thither as soon
as it was day, to play the oldga me over again, though
they did not now land within two leagues of it.
In the next place, they drove away all the flock of
goats they had at the old hower, as I called it, which
helonged to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little
appearance of inhahitants any where as possihle; and
the next morningcarly they posted themselves with all
their force at the plantation of the two men, waiting
for their coming. As they guessed so it happened i
these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east
end of the island, came ranging along the shore, di-
rectly towards the place to the numher of two hun-
dred and fifty, as near as our men could judge. Out
army was hut small indeed; hut that which was worse*
they had not arms for all their numher neither: tha
whole account, it seems, stood thus:—first, as to meni
17 Spaniards.
5 Englishmen.
1 Old Friday, or Friday's father.
3 Slaves, taken with the women, who proved very
faithful.
3 Other slaves who lived with the Spaniards.
Stf
To arm these they oad i
11 Muskets.
5 Pistols.
3 Fowling-pieces.
5 Muskets,or fowling-pieces, which were taken hr
me from the mutinous seamen whom I reduced
2 Swords.
3 Old halherts.

To their slaves they did rot give either musket O1
fusil, hut they had every one an halhert, or a long
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
fastened into each end of it, and hy his side a hatchet;
also every one of our men had hatchets. Two of the
women could not he prevailed upon hut they would
come into the fight, and they had hows and arrows
which the Spaniards had taken from the savages when
the first action happened, which I have spoken of
where the Indians fought with one another; and the
women had hatchets too.
The Spaniard governor, whom I have descrihed so
often, commanded the whole; and William Atkins,
who, though a dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a
most daring, hold fellow, commanded under him.
The savages came forward like lions, and our men,
which was the worst of their fate, had no advantage
in their situation; only that Will Atkins, who now
proved a most usefull fellow, with six men, was plant-
ed just hehind a small thicket of hushes, as an ad-
vanced guard, with orders to let the first of them pass
hy, and then fire into the middle of them; and as
soon as he had fired to make his retreat, as nimhly aa
he could, round a part of the wood, and so come in
hehind the Spaniards where they stood, having a
thicket of trees all hefore them.
When the savages came on,they ran straggling ahout
every way in heaps, out of all manner oforder, and
Will Atkins let ahout fifty of them pass hy him ; then
seeing the rest come in a very thick throng, he orders
three of his men to fire, having loaded their muskets
with six or seven hullets apiece, ahout as hig as large
pistols-hullets. How many they killed or wonnded
Iheyknew not; hut the consternation and surp.'ise waa
inexpressihle among the savages, who were frighted to
the last degree, to hear such a dreadful noise, and see
their men killed, and others hurt, hut see nohody that
did it. When in the middle of their fright, William
Atkins and his other three let fly again among the

thickest of them; and in less than a minute the firs*
three, heing loaded again, gave them a third volley.
Had William Atkins and his men retired immeuV
ately, as soon as they had fired, as they were ordered
to do; or had the rest of the hody heen at hand to
have poured in their shot continually, the savages had
heen effectually routed ; for the terror that was among
them came principally from this ; viz. that they wera
killed hy the gods with thunder and lightning, an 1
could see nohody that hurt them : hut William Atkins
itaying to load again, discovered the cheat; some of
the savages who were at a distance, spying them,came
upon them hehind; and though Atkins and his men
fired at them also, two or three times, and killed ahove
twenty retiring as fast as they could, yet they wound-
ed Atkins himself, and killed one of his fellow Eng-
lishmen with their arrows, as they did afterwards on•
Spaniard, with one of the Indian slaves who came
with the women. This slave was a most gallant fel-
low, and fought most desperately, killing five of them
with his own hand, having no weapon hut one of the
armed staves and a hatchet.
Our men heing thus hard laid at, Atkms wounded,
and two other men killed, retreated to a rising ground
in the wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three vol,
lies upon them, retreated also: for their numher was
so great, and they were so desperate, that though
ahove fifty of them were killed, and more than so
many wounded, yet they came on in the teeth of our
men, fearless of danger, and shot their arrows like t
aloud; and it was ohserved that their wounded men,
who were not quite disahled, were made outrageous
hy their wounds, and fought like madmen.
When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and
the Englishmen that were killed hehind them ; and
the savages, when they came up to them, killed them
overagain in a wretched manner, hreaking their arms,
legs, and heads, with their cluhs and wooden swords,
like true savages. But finding our men were gone,
they did not seem inclined to pursue them, hut drew
89
themselves up in a kind of ring, which is, it seems,
tbair custom, and shouted twice in token of their vie*
tory; after which, they had the mortification to see
several of their wounded men fall, dymg with the
mere loss of hlood.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little hody
up together upon a rising ground, Atkins though he
was wounded, would have had him march, and charge
them again all together at once: hut the Spaniard re-
plied, " Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded
men fight; let them alone till morning: all these
wounded men will he stiff and sore with theirwounds,
and faint with the loss of hlood, and so we shall have
tne fewer to engage."
The advice was good ; hut Will Atkins replied mer-
rily, " That's true, Seignior, and so shall 1 too; and
that's the reason I would go on while I am warm."—
"Well, Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, "you
have hehaved gallantly, and done your part; we will
fight for you, if you cannot come on ; hut I think it
hest to stay till morning:" so they waited.
But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they
found the savages in great disorder ahout their dead
and wounded men, and a great hurry and noise amou*
ihem where they lay, they afterwards resolved to fall
upon them in the night, especially if they could come
to give them hut one volley hefore they were disco-
vered. This they had a fair opportunity to do; for
one of the two Englishmen, in w hose quarter it was
wheie the fight hegan, led them round hetween the
w nods and the sea side, westward, and turning short
south, they came so near where the thickest of them
lay, that hefore they were seen or heard, eight of them
fired in among them, and did dreadful execution upon
them; in half a minute more ' ight others fired after
ihem, pouring in their small shot, in such a quantity,
chat ahundance were killed and wounded : and all this
while they were not ahle to see who hurt them, or
which way to fly.
The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expe-
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
dition, and then divided themselves into three hodies,
and resolved to fall in among them all together. They
had in each hody eight persons; that is to say, twenty-
four, whereof were twenty-two men, and the two
women, who, hy the way, fought desperately.
They divided the fire-arms equally in each party,
and so of the halherts and staves. They would havo
had the women keep hack; hut they said they wera
resolved to die with their hushands. Having thus
formed their little army, they marched out from among
the trees and came up to the teeth of the enemy,
shouting and hallooing as loud as they could. The
savages stood all together, hut were in the utmost con-
fusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting from
thrcequarters together; they would have fought if they
had seen us; and as soon as they came near enough to
he seen, some arrows were shot, and poor old Friday
was wounded, though not dangerously. But our men
gave them no time, hut running up to them, fired
among them three ways, and then fell in with the hutt
ends of their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and
hatchets; and laid ahout them so well, that in a word
they set up a dismal screaming *nd howling, Hying to
Our men were tired with the execution ; and killed,
or mortally wounded, in the two fights, ahout one
hundred and eighty of them : the rest, heing frighted
out of their wits, scoured through the woods and over
the hills, with all the speed that fear and nimhle feet
could help them to do ; and as we did not trouhle our-
selves much to pursue them, they got all together to
the sea-side, where they landed, and where their
canoes lay. But their disasier was not at an end yet,
fcr it hlew a terrihle storm of wind that evening from
the sea-ward, so that it was impossihle for them to
put off; nay, the storm continuing all night, when
the tide came up, their canoes were most of them
driven hy the surge of the sea so high upon the shore,
that it required infinite toil to get them off; and soma
save their lives which

efIhem were even dashed to pieces against the heach,
or against one another.
Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little
rest that night; hut having refreshed themselves as
well as they could, they resolved to march to that part
of the island where the savages were fled, and see
what posture they were in. This necessarily led them
over the place where the fight had heen, and where
ihey found several of the poor creatures not quite
dead, and yet past recovering life ; a sight disagreeahle
enough to generous minds; for a truly great man,
though ohliged hy the law of hattle to destroy hit
enemy, takes no delight in his misery.
However, there was no need to give any order rn
this case; for their own savages, who were theii
servants, dispatched those poor creatures with their
hatchets.
At length they came in view of the place where the
more miserahle remains of the savages' army lay,
where there appeared ahout one hundred still: theii
posture was generally sitting upon the ground, with
their knees up towards their mouth, and the head put
hetween the hands, leaning down upon the knees.
When our men came within two musket-shot of
them, the Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to
he fired without hall, to alarm them ; this he did, that
hy their countenance he might know what to expect,
viz. whether they were still in heart to fight, or were
so heartily heaten, as to he dispirited and discouraged,
and so he might manage accordingly.
This stratagem took; for as soon as the savages
heard the first gun, and saw the Mash of the secom1,
they started up upon their feet in the greatest conster-
nation imaginahle ; and as our men advanced swiftly
towards them, they all ran screaming ami yawling
away, with a kind of an howling noise, which our
men did not understand, and had never heard hefore;
and thus they ran up the hills into the country.
At first our men had much rather the weather had

calm, and they had all gone away to sea, hut
they did not then consider, that this might prohahly
have heen the occasion of their coming again in such
multitudes as not to he resisted ; or, at least, to com•
so many and so often, as would quite desolate the
island and starve them. Will Atkins therefore, who,
notwithstanding hit wound, kept always with them,
proved the hest counsellor in this case. His advice
was, to take the advantage that offered, and clap in
hetween them and their hoats, and so deprive them
of the capacity of ever returning any more to plague
the island.
They consulted long ahout this, and some were
against it, for fear of making the wretches fly into the
woods, and live there desperate; and so they should
have them to hunt like wild heasts, he afraid to stir
ahout their husiness, and have their plantation con-
tinually rifled, all their tame goats destroyed, and, in
short, he reduced to a life of contiual distress.
Will Atkins told them they had hetter have to do £
with one hundred men than with one hundred nations; j
that as they must destroy their hoats, so they must \
destroy the men, or he all of them destroyed them-
selves. In a word, he shewed them the necessity oi
it so plainly, that they all came into it; so they i
to work immediately with the hoats, and getting s
dry wood together from a dead tree, they tried to set
some of them on fire : hut they were so wet that they
would scarce hurn. However, the fire so hurned the
upper part, that it soon made them unfit for swim-
ming in the sea as hoats. When the Indians saw
what they were ahout, some of them came running
out of the woods, and coming as near as they could
to our men, kneeled down and cried. Oa, Oa, lVa,
ramnkoa, and some other words of their language,
which none of the others understood any thing of;
hut as they made pitiful gestures and strange noises,
it was easy to understand they hegged to have .heii
hoats spared, and that they would he gone, and i
return thither again

But O'tr men were now satisfied, that they had no
way to preserve themselves or to save their colony,
hut effectually to prevent any of these people from
evur going home again; depend:ng upon this, that if
ever so much as one of them got hack into their coun-
try to tell the story, the nolouy was undone; so that
letting them know that they should not have any
mercy, they fell to work with their canoes, and de-
stroyed them, every one that the storm had not de-
stroyed hefore ; at the sight of which the savages rais-
ed a hideous cry in the woods, which our people heard
ftlain enough; after which they ran ahout the island
ike distracted men ; so that, in a word, our men did
not really know at first what to do with them.
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, con-
sider that while they made those people thus despe-
rate, they ought to have kept good guard at the same
time upon their plantations; tor though it is true they
had driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not
find their main retreat, I mean my old castle at the
hill, nor the cave in the valley; yet they found out
my plantation at the hower, and pulled it all to
pieces, and all the fences and planting ahout it; trod
all the corn under foot; tore up the vines and grapes,
heing just then almost ripe, and did our men an ines-
timahle damage, though to themselves not one far*
things worth of service.
Though our men were ahle to fight them upon all
occasions, yet they were in no condition to pursue
them, or hunt them up and down; for as they were
too nimhle of foot for our men when they found them
sinle, so our men durst not go ahout single for fear of
heing surrounded with their numhers: the hest was,
they had no weapons; for though they had hows they
had no arrows left, nor any materials to make any,
nor had they any edged tool or weapon among them.
The extremity and distress they were reduced to
wan great, and indeed deplorahle, hut at the same
time our men were also hrought to very hard circum-
staacee hy them; for though their retreats were pre-
•erved, yet their provision was destroyed, and then
harvest spoiled ; and what to do or which way to turn
themselves, they knew not; the only refuge they had
now was the stock of cattle they had in the valley hy
tho cave, and some little corn which grew there. Tha
three Englishmen, William Atkins and his comrades,
were now reduced to two, one of them heing killed
hy an arrow, which struck him on the side of hhi
head, just under the temple, so that he never spoke
more; and it was very remarkahle, that this was the
same harharous fellow who cut the poor savage slave
with his hatchet, and who afterwards intended to have
murdered the Spaniards.
I look upon their case to have heen worse at thn
time than mine was at any time after I first discovered
the grains of harley and rice and got into the method
of planting and raising my corn, and my tame cattle j
for now they had, as I may say, an hundred wolves
upon the island, which would devour every thing they
could come at, yet could he very hardly come at
themselves.
The first thing they concluded when they saw what
their circumstances were, was, that they would, il
possihle, drive them up to the farther part of the
island, south-east, that if any more savages came on
shore, they might not find one another; then that they
would daPy hunt and harass them, and kill as many of
them-as they could come at, till they had reduced the
numher; and if they could at last tame them, and
hring them to any thing, they would give them corn,
and teach them how to plant, and live upon their dai-
ly lahour.
In order to this they followed them, and so terrified
them with their guns, that in a few days, if any of
them fired a gun at an Indian, if he did not hit him,
yet he would fall down for fear; and so dreadfully
frighted they were, that they kept out of sight farther
and farther, till at last our men following them, and
every day almost killing and wounding some of them,
they kep up in the woods and hollow places so much,
thtit it reduced them to the utmost misery for want of
food; and many were afterwards found dead in the
woods, without any hurt, hut merely starved to death.
When our men found this it made their hearts re
lent, and pity moved them ; especially the Spaniard
governor, who was the most gentleman-like,generous-
minded man that ever I met with in m\ life; and he
proposed, if possihle, to take one of them alive, and
bring him to understand what they meant, so far ai to
he ahle to act as interpreter, and to go among them,
and see if they might he hrought to some conditions
that might he depended upon to save their lives, and
do us no spoil.
It was some time hefore any of them could he
taken ; hut heing weak, and hall starved, one of them
was at last surprised, and made a prisoner: he was
sullen at first, and would neither eat nor drink; hut
finding himself kindly used, and victuals given him,
and no violence offered him, he at last grew tractahle,
and came to himself
They hrought old Friday to him, who talked often
with him, and told him how kind the others would he
to them all : that they would not only save their lives,
hut would give them a part of the island to live in,
provided they would give satisfaction; that they
should keep in their own hounds, and not come he-
yond them, to injure or prejudice others; and that
they should have corn given them, to plant and make
it grow for their hread, and some hread given them
for their present suhsistence; and old Friday hade the
fellow go and talk with the rest of his countrymen,
and hear what they said to it, assuring them that it
they did not agree immediately they should all he de-
stroyed.
The poor wretches, thoroughly humhled, and re.
duced,in numher to ahout thirty-seven,closed with the
proposal at the first offer, and hegged to have some
food given them; upon which twelve Spaniards and
two Englishmen, well armed and three Indian slaves,
and old Friday, marched to the place where they
were; the three InHian slaves carried them a larga
quantity of hread, and some rice hoiled up to cakes,
and dried in the sun, and three live goats; and they
were ordered to go to the side of an hill, where they
sat down, ate the provisions very thankfully, and were
the most faithful fellows to their words that could he
thought of; for except when they came to heg victuals
nd directions, they never came out of their hounds;
and there they lived when 1 came to the island, and I
went to see them.
They had taught them hoth to plant corn, maka
hread, hreed tame goats, and milk them ; they wanted
nothing hut wives, and they soon would have heen a
nation: they were confined to a neck of land sur-
rounded with high rocks hehind them, and lying plain
towards the sea hefore them, on the south-east corner
of the island; they had land enough, and it was very
good ami fruitful; for they had a piece" of land ahout
a mile and a half hroad, and three or four miles in
ertgth.
Our men taught them to make wooden spades such
as I made for myself; and gave among them twelva
hatchets, and three or four knives; and there they
lived, the most suhjected innocent creatures that were
aver heard of
After this the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity
with respect to the savages, till I came to revisit them,
which u as in ahout two years. Not hut that ntw and
then some canoes of savages came on shore for their
triumphal, unnatural feasts; hut as they were of sev-
eral nations, and, perhaps, had never heard of those
that came hefore, or the reason of it, they did not
make any search or inquiry after their countrymen;
and if they had, it would have heen very hard for
them to have found them out.
Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that
happened to them to my return, at least that was worth
notice. The Indians, or savages, were wonderfully
civilized hy them, and they frequently went among
hem; hut forhid, on uain of death, any of the Indiana
9T
commg to them, hecause they would not hare their
settlement hetrayed again.
One thing was very remarkahle,vii that they taught
the savages to make wicker-work, or haskets; hut they
soon outdid their masters; for they made ahundance
of most ingenius things in wicker-work; particularly
all sorts of haskets, sieves, hird-cages, cuphoards, &c
as also chairs to sit on, stools, heds, couches, and
ahundance of other things, heing very ingenious a
such work when they were once put in the way of iw
My coming was a particular relief to these people,
hecause we furnished them with knives, scissars,
spades, shovels, pickaxes, and all things of that kind
which they could want
.
With the help of these tools they were so very
bandy, that they came at last to huild up their huts, or
houses, very handsomely ; raddling, or working it up
tike hasket-work all the way round, which was a very
extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked very
odd; hut was an exceeding good fence, as well against
heat, as against all sorts of vermin ; and our men were
so taken with it, that they got the wild savages to
come and do the like for them; so that when I came
to see the two Englishmens's colonies, they looked,at a
distance, as if they lived all like hees in a hive: and
as for Will Atkins, who was now hecome a very in-
dustrious, necessary, and soher fellow, he had made
himself such a tent of hasket-work as I helieve was
never seen. It wa* one hundred and twenty paces
round on the outside, as I measured hy my steps; the
walls were as close worked as a hasket, m pannels or
equares, thirty-two in numher, and very strong, stand-
ing ahout seven feet high: in the middle was another
not ahove twenty-two paces ronnd, hut huilt stronger
heing eight-square in its form, and in the eight cornera
stood eight very strong posts, round the top of which
he laid strong pieces, joined together with wooden
pins, from which he raised a pyramid hefore the roof
of eight rafters, wry handsome I assure you, and
VOI . II.

Joined together very well, though he had no nails, and
only a few iron spikes, which he had made himself
too, nut of the old iron that I had left there; and in-
deed this fellow shewed ahundance of ingenuity in
several things which he had no knowledge of; he
made himself a forge, with a pair of wooden hellows
to hlow the fire; he made himself charcoal for his
work, and he formed out of one of the iron crows a
middling good anvil to hammer upon ; in this manner
he maHe many things, hut especially hooks, staples
and spikes, holts and hinges. But to return to the
house: after he pitched the roof of his innermost tent,
he worked it up hetween the rafters with hasket-work,
so fiim, and tfntched that over again so ingeniously
with rice-straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree,
which covered the top, that his house was as dry as
1f it had heen tiled or slated. Indeed he owned that
the savages made the hasket work for him-
The outer circuit was covered, as a lean-to, all round
this inner apartment, and long rafters lay from the
thirty-two angles to the top posts of the inner house,
heing ahout twenty feet distant; so that there was a
space like a walk within the outer wicker wall, and
without the inner, near twenty feet wide.
The inner place he parti toned off with the same
wicker-work, hut much fairer, and divided into six
apartments, for that he had six rooms on a floor, and
out of every one of these there was a door: first, into
the entry, or coming into the main tent; and anothei
door into the space or walk that was round it; so that
this walk was also divided into six equal parts, which
served not only for a retreat, hut to store up anv ne-
cessaries which the family had occasion for. These
six spaces not taking upthe whole circumference,what
other apartments the outer circle had, were thus or-
dered: as soon as you were in at the door of the outer
circle, you had a short passage straight hefore you to
the door of the inner house; hut on either side was a
wicker partition, and a door in it, hy which you went,
fiiSt into 9 arge room or store. he use, twenty feet wide
and ahout thirty feet long, and through that into an
other not quite so long : no thai in the outer circle wert
ten handsome rooms, six of which were only to he
come at through the apartments of the inner tent, and
served as closets or retired rooms to the respective
chamhers of the inner circle ; and four large ware-
houses or harns, or what yon please to call them, which
went in through one another, two on either hand ot
the passage that led through the outer door to the in-
ner tent.
Such a piece of hasket-work, I helieve, was never
seen in the world; nor tin house or tent so neatlv con
trived, much less so huilt. In this great heehive lived
three families; that is to say, Will Atkins and his
companions; the third was killed, hut his wife re-
mained with three children; for she was, it seems,
hig with child when he died, and the other two were
not at all hackward to give the widow her full share
of every thing, I mean as to theircorn, milk,grapes, &c
and when they killed a kid, or found a turtle on the
shore; so that they all lived well enough, though it
was true, they were not so industrious as the othei
two, as has heen ohserved already.
One thing, however, cannot he omitted, viz. that,
as for religion, I don't know that there was any thing
of that kind among them; they pretty often indeeo
put one another in mind that there was a God, hy the
very common method of seamen, viz. swearing hy his
name; nor were their poor, ignorant, savage wives
much th3 hetter for having heen married to Christians,
as we must call them ; for as they knew very little of
God themselves, so they were utterly incapahle of en.
ering into any discnurse with their wives ahout a
God, or to talk any thing to them concerning religion.
The utmost of all the improvement which I can saj
the wives had made from them, was, that they had
taught them to speak English pretty well; and all ths
children they had, which were near twenty in all
were taught to speak English too, from their first learn
uag to sptak, though they at first spoke it in a vcq
hroken manner, like their mothers. There were none
of those children ahove six years old when I cam•
thither; for it was not much ahove seven years thai
they had fetched these five savage ladies over, hut they
had all heen pretty fruitful, for they had all children,
more or less: I think the cook's mate's wife was hig
of her sixth child; and the mothers were all a good
sort of well-governed, quiet, lahorious women, modest
and decent, helpful to one another, mighty ohservant
and suhject to their rrms.ers, I cannot call them hus-
hands; andwanted nothing hut to he well mstructed
in the Christian religion, and to he legally married (
hoth which were happily hrought ahout afterwards
hy my means, or at least hy the consequence of my
coming among them
Having thus given an account of the colony in ge-
neral, and pretty much of my five runagate English-
men, I must say something of the Spaniards, who were
the main hody of the family, and in whose story there
are some incidents also remarkahle enough.
1 had a great many discourses with them ahout their
circumstances when they were among the savages;
they told me readily, that they had no instances to
give of their application or ingenuity in that country;
that they were a poor, miserahle, dejected handful of
people; that if means had heen put into their hands,
they had yet so ahandoned themselves to despair, and
so sunk under the weight of their misfortunes, that
they thought of nothing hut starving. One of them, a
grave and very sensihle man, told me he was convinc-
ed they were in the wrong; that it was not the part
of wise men to give up themselves to their misery,
hut always to take hold of the helps which reason of-
fered, as well for present support, as for future deli-
verance; he told me that grief was the most senseless
Insignificant passion in the world, for that it regarded
only things past, which were generally impossihle to
he recalled or to he remedied, hut had no view to
thmgs to come, and had no share m any thing thai
1ooled like deliverance, hut rather added to the afHic-
tion than proposed a remedy; and upon this he ra
peated a Spanish proverh, which though I cannot re-
peat m just the same words that he spoke it, yet 1
rememher I made it into an English proverh of my
own, .thus:
In trouhle to he trouhled.
Is to have your trouhle douhled.
He then ran on in remarks upon all the little im-
provements I had made in my solitude; my unwea-
ried application, as he called it, and how 1 had made
a condition, which in its circumstances was at first
much worse than theirs, a thousand times more hap-
py than theirs was, even now when they were all to-
gether. He told me it was remarkahle that English-
men had a greater presence of mind in their distress
than any people that ever he met with: that their unhap
py nation, and the Portuguese, were the worst men
m the world to sttuggle with misfortunes; for thai
their first step in dangers, after common efforts are
over, was always to despair, lie down under it and
die, without rousing their thoughts up to proper re-
medies for escape.
I told him their case and mine differed exceedingly;
that they were cast upon the shore without necessa-
ries, without supply of food, or of present sustenence,
till they could provide it; that ii is true, I had this
disadvantage and discomfort, that I was alone; hut
then the supplies 1 had providentially thrown into my
hands, hy the unexpected driving of the ship on shore,
was such a help as would have encouraged any crea-
ture in the world to have applied himself as 1 had
done. "Seignior," says the Spaniard," had we poor
Spaniards heen in your case we should never nave
gotten half those thmgs out of the ship as you did."
"Nay," says he," we should never have found mean*
to have gotten a raft to carry them, or to nave gotten
a raft on shore without hoat or sail; and how much
less should we have done," said he, "if any of us
had heen alone!" Well, I desired him to ahate hit
compliment, and go on with the history of" their com
mg on shore, where they landed. He told me they
unhappily landed at a place where there were people
104 LIFE AND'ADVENTURES
mon sense to have put off to sea again, and gone to
another isiand a little farther, they had found provi-
sions though without people; there heing an island
that way, as they had been told, where there were
provisions though no people; that is say, that the
Spaniards of Trinidad had frequently hewi there, and
fillet! the island with goats and hogs at several times,
where they have hred in such multitudes, and wheie
turtle and sea-fowls were in such plenty that they
could have heen in no want of flesh though they had
found no hread ; whereas here they were only sustain-
ed with a few roots and herhs, which they understood
not, and which had no suhstance in them, and which
the inhahitants gave them sparingly enough, and who
could treat them no hetter unless they would turn
cnnnihals, and eat men's flesh, which was the great
dainty of the country.
They gave me an account how many ways they
strove to civilize the savages they were with, and to
teach them rational customs in the ordinary way of
living, hut in vain ; and how they retorted it upon
them as unjust, that thev, who came thither for assist-
ance and support, should attempt to set up for instruc-
tors of those that gave them hread; intimating, it
seems, that none should set up for the instructors ot
others hut those who could live without then.
They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities
they were driven to; how sometimes they were many
days without anv food at all, the island they were
Upon heing inhahited hy a sort of savages that lived
more indolent, and for that reason were less supplied
with the necessaries of life than they had reason to he-
lieve others » ere in the same part of the world ; and
yet they found ihat these savages were less tavenoui
and voracious than those who had hetter supplies of
fcod.
Also Aiey added, that they could not hut sec with
what demonstrations of wisdom and goodness the go-
verning providence of God directs the event of thingi
in the world, which they said appeared in their cir-
cumstances; for if, pressed hy the hardships they werv
under, and the harrenness of the country where they
were, they had searched after a hetter place to live in,
they had then heen out of the way of the relief that
happened to them hy my means.
Then they gave me an account how the savagei
whom they lived among expected them to go out
with them into their wars; and it was true, that as
they had fire-arms with them, had they not had the
disaster to lose their ammunition, they should not have
heen servicahle only to their friends, hut have made
themselves terrihle hoth to friends and enemies; hut
heing without powder and shot, and in a condition
that they could not in reason deny to go out with their
landlords to their wars; when they came in the field
of hattle they were in a worse condition than the sa-
vages themselves, for they neither had hows nor ar-
rows, nor could they use those the savages gave them,
so that they could do nothing hut stand still and h*
wounded witli arrows, till tltey came up to the teetk
of heir enemy; and then indeed the three halherts
they had were of use to them, and they would often
drive a whole little army hefore them with those hal-
herts and sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of
their muskets: hut that for all this, fney were some-
times surrounded with multitudes, and in great danger
from their arrows; till at last they found the way to
make themselves large targets of wood, which they
covered with skins of wild heasts, whose names they
knew not, and these covered them from the arrows
of tne savages; that notwithstanding these, they were
sometimes in great danger, a.id were once five of
them knocked down together with the cluhs of the sa-
vages, which was the time when one of them was
taken prisoner, that is to say, the Spaniard whom 1
bad relieved; that at first they thought he had heea
KM
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
killed, hut when afterwards they heard he was talret
prisoner they were under the greatest grief imagina-
ble, and would willingly have all ventured their lives
to have rescued him.
They told me, that when they were so knocked
down, the rest of their company rescued them, and
stood over them fighting till they were come to them-
selves, all hut he who they thought had heen dead
and then they made their way with their halherts an
pieces standmg close together in a line, through a
tody of ahove a thousand savages, heating down all
thai came in their way, got the victory over their ene-
mies, hut to their great sorrow, hecause it was with
the loss of their friend ; whom the other party, finding
him alive, carried off with some others, as 1 gave an
account in my former.
They descrihed, most affectionately, how they were
surprised with joy at the return of their friend and
companion in misery, who they thought had heen de-
voured hy wild heasts of the worst kind, viz. hy wild
men; and yet how more and more they were sur-
prised with the acconnt he gave them of his errand,
and that there was a Christian in a place near, much
more one that was ahle, and had humanity enough to
contrihute to their deliverance.
They descrihed how they were astonishoed at the
sight of the relief I sent them, and at the appearance
of loaves of hread, things they had not seen smce their
coming tothat miserahle place; how often theycrossed
it, and hlessed it as hread sent from heaven ; and
what a reviving cordial it was to their spirits to taste
It, as also of the other things I had sent for their sup-
ply. And, after all, they would have told me some-
thing of the joy they were in at the sight of a hoat
and pilots to carry them away to the person and place
from whence all these new comforts came; hut they
told me it was impossihle to express it hy words, for
their excessive joy driving them to unhecoming esu
travagances, they had no way to descrihe them hut
hy telling me that they hordered upon lunacy, having
no way to give vent to their passion suitahle to the
tense that was upon them ; that in some it worked one
way, and in some another; and that some of them,
through a surprise of joy, would hurst out into tears;
others he half mad, and others immediately faint.
This discourse extremely affected me, and called to
my mind Friday's ecstasy when he met his father, and
the poor people's ecstasy when I took them up at
pea, after their ship was on fire ; the mate of the snip's
joy, when he found himself delivered in the place
where he expected to perish; and my own joy, when
alter twenty-eight years captivity 1 found a good ship
ready to carry me to my own country. All these
thing made me more sensihle of the relation of these
poor men, and more effected with it
.
Having thus given a view of the state of things as
I found them, I must relate the heads of what I did
for these people, and the condition in which I left
them. It was their opinion, and mine too that they
would he trouhled no more with the savages ; or that,
if they were, they would he ahle to cut them off, if
they were twice as many as hefore; so that they had
no concern ahout that. Then 1 entered into a serious
discnurse with the Spaniard whom I called governor,
ahout their stay in the island ; for as I was not come
O carry any of them off, so it would not he just to
can v off some and leave others, who perhaps would
De unwilling to stay if their strength was diminished.
On the other hand I told them, I came to estahlish
them there, not to remove them; and then I let them
know that I had hrought with me relief of sundry
kinds for them ; that f had heen at a great charge to
upply them with all things necessary, as well for their
onvenience as their defence ; and that 1 had such
articular persons with me, as well to increase and
recruit their numher, as hy the particular necessary
employments which they were hred to, heing artifi-
fixers, to assist them in those things in which at pre-
sen hey were to seek.
They ware all together when I talked thui to them
and hefore 1 delivered to them the stores I had hroughs,
I asked them, one hy one, if they had entirely forgot
and huried the first animosities that had heen among
them, and could shake hands with one another, ana
engage in a strict friendship and union of interest, so
that there might he no more misunderstandings or
iealousies.
William Atkins , with ahundance of frankness and
pood humour, said*, they had met with afflictions
ss.Augh to make them all soher, and enemies enough
to make them all friends ; that for his part he would
l:re and die with them ; and was so far from design-
ing any thine against the Spaniards, that he owned
thev had done nothing to him hut what his own had
humour made necessary, and what he would havo
done, and perhaps much worse, in tiieir case; and
that he would ask them pardon, if I desired it, for the
fool:sh and hrutish thing he had done to them; and
was verv willing and desirous of living on terms tf
entire friendship and union with them ; and would Jo
any thing that lay in his power, to convince them of
it: and as for going to England, he cared not if he did
not so thither these twenty years.
The Spaniards said, they had indeed at first disarm
ed and excluded William Atkins and his two coun
trvmen, for their ill conduct, as they had let me know;
and they appealed to me for the necessity they wen
under to do so; hut that William Atkins had hehaves
himself so hravely in the great fight they had with the
savases, and on several occasions since, and had
shew ml himself so faithful to, and concerned for the
general interest of them all, that they had forgotten afl
that was pa-:t, and thought he merited as much to be
trusted with arms, and supplied with necessaries, as
any of them; and that thev had testified their satisfac-
tion in him, hy committing the command to him,
next to the governor himself; and as they had an en-
tire confidence in him and all his countrymen, so they
%cknow's \ ed tliev had merited that confidence hy
nil the methods that honest men could merit to he va-
lued and trusted; and they most heartily emhraced
the occasion of giving me this assurance, that they
would never have any interest separate from one
another.
Upon thesi frank and open declarations of friend-
ship, we appointed the next day to dine all together
and indeed we made a splendid feast. I caused the
ship's cook and his mate to come on shore and dress
our dinner, and the old cook's mate we had on shce
assisted. We hrought on shore six pieces of good
heef, and four pieces of pork, out of the ship's provi*
sion, with our punch-howl, and materials to nil it\
and, in particular, 1 gave them len hottles of French
claret, and ten hotiles of English heer, things that
neither the Spaniards nor the Englishmen had tasted
for many years; and which it may he supposed they
were exceeding glad of.
The Spaniards added to our feast five whole kids,
which the cooks roasted; and three of them wese
sent, coversd up close, on hoard our ship to the sea-
men, that they might feast on fresh meat from on
shore, as we did with their salt meat fiom on hoard
After this feast, at which we were very innocently
merry, I hrought out :ny cargo of goods, wherein,
that there might he no dispute ahout dividing, I shew-
ed them that there was sufficient for them all; and
desired that they might all take an equal quantity of
the goods that were for wearing; that is to say equal
when made up. As first, 1 distrihuted linen sufficient
to make every one of them four shirts; and, at the
Spaniards' request, afterwards made them up six;
these were exceeding comfortahle to them, having
teen what, as I may sav, they had long since forgo
the use of, or what it was to wear them.
I allotted the thin English stuffs, which I mention-
ed hefore, to make every one a light coat like a frock,
which I judged fittest for the heat of the season, cool
and loose; and ordered, that whenever they decayed
they should make more, at they thought fit. The like
for pumps, (hoes, stockings, and hats, &c
I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction,
sat upon the countenances of all these poor men when
they saw the care I had taken of them, and how well
I had furnished them; they told me I was a father to
them; and that having such a correspondent as I was,
in so remote a part of the world, it would make them
forget that they were left in a desolate place : and they
all voluntarily engaged to me not to leave the place
without my consent.
Then I presented to them the people I had hrought
with me, particularly the tailor, the smith, and the
two carpenters, all of them most necessary people;
hut ahove all, my general artificer, than whom they
could not name any thing that was more needful to
them; and the tailor, to shew his concern for them,
went to work immediately, and, with my leave, made
them every one a shirt the first thing he did; and,
which was still more, he taught the women not only
how to sew and stitch, and use the needle, hut made
them assist to make the shirts for their hushands and
for all the rest.
As for the carpenters, I scarce need mention how
wseful they were, for they took in pieces all my clumsy
unhandy things, and made them clever convenient
tahles, stools, hedsteads, cuphoards, lockers, shelves,
and every thing they wanted of that kind.
But to let them see how nature made artificers at
first, 1 carried the carpenters to see William Atkin's
hasket-house, as I called it, and they hoth owned they
never saw an instance of such natural ingenuity he-
fore, nor any thing so regular and so handily huilt,
at least of its kind; and one of them, when he saw it
after musing a good while, turning ahout to me, "I
am sure," says he, "that man has no need of us{
you need do nothing hut give him tools.
Then I hrought them out all my store of tools, and
cave every man a digging spade, a shovel, and a rake
for we had no harrows or ploughs; and to every m

parate place a pickaxe, a crow, a hroadaxe, ana a
aaw; always appointing, that as often as any were
hroken, or worn out, they should he supplied, without
grudging, out of the general stores that I left hehind.
Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chissels, knives*
scissars, and all sorts of tools and iron-work, they had
without tale a; they required; for no man would care
to take more than he wanted, and he must he a fool
that would waste or spoil them on any account what-
ever. And for the use of the smith I left two tons ct
unwrought iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms which I hrought
them, was such, even to profusion, that they could
not hut rejoice at them; for now they could march,
as I used to do, with a musket upon each shoulder, if
there was occasion. and were ahle to fight a thousand
savages, if they had hut some little advantage of sit-
tuation, which also they could not miss of if they had
occasion.
1 carried on shore with me the young man whosa
mother was starved to death, and the maid also: she
was a soher, well-educated, religious young woman,
and hehaved so inoffensively, that every one gave her
a good word. She had, indeed, an unhappy life with
us, there heing no women in the ship hut herself; hut
she hote it with patience. Aftera while, seeing things
so well ordered, and in so fine a way of thriving upon
my island, and considering that they had neither hut
siness nor acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason
for taking so long a voyage ; I say, considering all
this, hoth of them came to me, and desired I would
give them leave to remain un the island, and he en.
tered among my family, as they called it.
I agreed to it readily, and they had a little plot of
ground allotted to them, where they had three tents or
houses set up, surrounded with a hasket-work, pali-
saded like Atkins's, and adjoining to his plantat'or*.
Their tents were contrived so, that they had each of
them a room, a part to lodge in, and a middle tent-
like a great storehouse, to lay all their goods in ana
28
>
i
I
vo cat sad drink in. And now the other two Eng
ashmen moved their hahttation to the same place, ana
so the island was divided into thtee colonies, and no
more; riz. the Spaniards with old Rssday, and the
first servants, at my old hahitation onder the hill,
which was, ins word, the capital city, and where they
had so enlarged and entended their works, as well
onder as on the outside of the hill, that they hred,
though perfectly concealed, yet full at targa. Kens
was there such a little city in a wood, and so hid, I
heiirre, in any part of the world; for I verily helievo
a thousand men might hare ranged the island a month,
and if they had not known there was such a thing,
and looked on purpose for it, they would not hare
found it; (or the trees stood so thick and eo close, and
grew so fast matted into one another, that nothing hut
cutting them down first, could discover the place, ex-
cept the two narrow entrances where they went in
and out, could he found, which was not rery easy.
One of them was just down at theSrater's edge, on the
side of the creek: and it was afterwards ahove two
hundred yards to the place; and the other was up the
ladder at twice, as I have already formerly descrihed
it; and they had a larr,e wood, thick planted, also oa
the top of the hill, which contained ahove an acre,
which grew apace, and covered the place from all dis-
covery there, with only one narrow place hetween
two trees, not easy to he discovery, to enter on thai
side.
Toe other colony was that of Will Atkins, when)
there —-re four families of Englishmen, I mean those
I had .eft there, with their wives and children: thre
enrages that were slares: the widow and children o
the Englishman that was killed; the young man and
the maid; and hy the way, we made a wife of het
also hefore we went away. There were also the two
carpenters and the tailor, whom I hrought with ma
for them ; also the smith, who was a very necessary
man to them, especially as the gunsmith, to t tke care
ef their arms; and my other man, whom 1 called
Jack of all Trades, who was himself as good almost
as twenty men, for he was not only a very ingenious
fe low hut a very merry fellow; and hefore I went
•way we married him to the honest maid that cams
with the youth in the ship, whom I mentioned hefore.
And now I speak of marrying, it hrings me natu-
rally to sav something of the French ecclesiastic that
I had hrought with me out of the ship's crew whom
I took at sea. It is true, this man was a Roman, and
fierhaps it may give offence to some hereafter, if I
eave any thing extraordinary upon record of a man,
whom, hefore I hegin, I must (to set him out in just
colours) represent in terms very much to his disadvan-
tage in the account of Protestants; as, first, that ho
was a Papist; secondly a Popish priest; and thirdly,
a French Popish priest
.
But justice demands of me to give him a due cha-
racter; and I must say, he was a grave, soher, pi out,
and most religious person; exact in his life, extensive
m his charity, and exemplary in almost every thing
he did. What then can any one say against my heing
very sensihle of the value of such a man, notwith-
standing his profession ? though it may he my opin-
ion, perhaps as well as the opinion of others who
shall read this, that he was mistaken.
The first hour that I hegan to converse with him,
after he had agreed to go with me to the East Indies)
I found reason to delight exceedingly in his conven-
tmtion; and he first hegan with me ahout religion, in
Mie most ohliging manner imaginahle.
"Sir," says he, " you have not only, under God"
(and at that he crossed his hreast), "saved my life,
ut you have admitted me to go this voyage in your
hip, and hy your ohliging civility have taken me into
your family, giving roe an opportunity of free corv
versaiion. Now, Sir," says he, " you see hy my
hahit what my profession is, and I guess hy your na-
tion what yours is. I may think it is my duly, and
douhtless it it so, to use my utmost endeavours on ill
occasions to hring all the souls that I canto the know*
ledge of the truth, and to emhrace the Catholic doo>
trine; hut as I am here under your permission, and in
your family, I am hound in justice to your kindness,
as well as in decency aiid good manners, to he under
your government; and therefore I shall not, without
your leave, enter into any dehates on the points of re-
ligion, in which we may not agree, farther than yo«
shall give me leave."
1 told him his carriage was so modest that I could
not hut acknowledge it; that it was true, we wera
such people as they call heretics, hut that he was not
the first Catholic that I had conversed with without
falling into any inconveniences, or carrying the ques-
tions to any height in dehate ; that he should not find
himself the worse used for heing of a different opinion
from us; and if we did not converse without any a is-
like on either side, upon that score, it would he his
fault, not ours.
He replied, that he thought our conversation might
he easily separated from disputes; that it was i ot his
husiness to cap principles with every man he dis-
coursed with; and that he rather desired me to con-
verse with him as a gentleman than as a religxeux ,
that if I would give him leave at any time to dis-
course upon religious suhjects, he would readil/ com-
ply with it; and that then he did not douht hut I would
allow him also to defend his own opinions as well as
he could; hut that without my leave he would no•
hreak in upon me with any such thing.
He told me farther, that he would not cease to do
all that hecame him in his office as a priest as well
as a private Christian, to procure the good of the shir,
and the safety of all that was in her; and though per
haps we would not join with him, and he could no4
pray with us, he hoped he might pray for us, which
he would do upon all occasions. In this manner wa
conversed ; and as he was of a most ohliging gentle-
man-like hehaviour, so he was if I may he allowed
to sa» so, a man of good sense, and, as I helieve, of
freat learning.
He gave me a most diverting account of his life,
•nd of the many extraordinary events of it; of many
adventures which had hefallen him m the few yean
that he had heen ahroad in the world,and particularly
this was very remarkahle; viz. that during the voy-
ige he was now engaged in he had the misfortune to
he five times shipped and unshipped, and never to go
to the place whither any of the ships he was in were
at first designed : that his first intent was to have gone
to Martinico, and that he went on hoard a ship hound
thither at St. Maloes; hut heing forced into Lishon in
had weather, the ship received some damage hy run-
ring aground in the mouth of the river Tagus, and
was ohliged to unload her cargo there: that finding a
Portuguese ship there, hound to the. Madeiras, and
ready to sail, and supposing he should easily meet with
a vessel ihere hound to Martinico, he went on hoard
in order to sail to the Madeiras; hut the master of the
Portuguese ship heing hut an indifferent mariner, had
heen out nf his reckoning, and they drove to Fyal .
where, however, he happened to find a very goon
market for his cargo, which was corn, anoVtherefora
resolved not to go to the Madeiras, hut to load salt at
the isle of May, to go away to Newfoundland. He
had no remedy in the exigence hut to go with the ship,
and had a pretty good voyage as far as the Banks, (so
they call the place where they catch the fish) where
meeting with a French ship hound from France to
Quehec, in the river of Canada, and from thence to
Martinico to carry provisions, he thought he should
bave an opportunity to complete his first design. But
when he came to Quehec the master of the ship died,
and the ship proceeded no farther. So the next voy-
age he shipped himself for France, in the ship that
was hurnt, when we too* them up at sea, and theu
shipped them with us for the East Indies, as I have
already said. Thus he had heen disappointed in five
voyages, all, as I may call it, in one voyage, besides
what I shall have occasioit to mention farther of the
But 1 shall not make digressions into other men'•
ttones which have no relation to my own. I return
to what concerns our affirs in the island. He came to
me one morning, for he lodged among us all the while
we were upon the island, and it happened to he. just
when I was going to visit the Englishmen's colony at
tne farthest part of the island . 1 say he came to me,
and told me with a very grave countenance, that he
had for two or three days desired an opportunity of
some discourse with me, which he hopea would not
he displeasing to me, hecause he thought it might in
some measure correspond with my general design,
which was the prosperity of my new colony, and per-
haps might put it at least more than he yet thought it
was in the way of God's hlessing.
I looked a little surprised at the last part of his dis-
course, and turning a little short, "How, Sir," said
I, "can it he said, that we are not in the way of
God's hlessing, after such visihle assistances and won-
derful deliveraucesas we have seen hers, and of which
1 have given you a large account?"
"If yojj hid pleased, Sir," said he, with a world
of modesty and yet with great readiness, "to have
heard %ie, you would have found no room to have
heen displeased, much less to think so hard of me,
that I should suggest, that you have not had wonder-
ful assistances and deliverances ; and 1 hope, on your
behalf that you are in the way of God's hlessing, and
your design is exceeding good, and will prosper. Bui,
Sir," said he " though it were more so than is even
possihle to you, yet there may he some among you
tnat are not equally right in their actions; and you
know that in the story of Israel, one Achan, in the
camp, removed God's hlessing from them, and turned
his hand so against them, that thirty-six erf- them,
though not concerned in the crime, were the ohjects
of divine vengeance, and hore the weight of that pu-
nishment."
I wns sensihly touched with this discourse, and told
him his inference was so tint, and the whole design
J
seemed so sincere, and was really so religions in iti
Own nature, that 1 was very sorry I had interrupter
him, and hegged him to go on; and in the meantime,
hecause it seemed that what we had hoth to say might
take up some time, I told him I was going to the Eng-
lishmens' plantation, and asked him to go with me,
and we might disc on re of it hy the way. He told
me he would more willingly wait on me thither he-
cause there, partly, the thing was acted which he de-
sired to speak to me ahout. So we walked on, and I
Eressed him to he free and plain with me in what ho
ad to say.
"Why then. Sir," says he, " he pleased to give ma
eave to lay down a few propositions as the foundation
of wVtat I have to say, that we may not differ in the
general principles, though we may he of some differ-
ing opimons in the practice of particulars. First, Sir,
though we diffei in some of the doctrinal articles of
religion, and it is very unhappy that it is so, especially
in the case hefore us, as 1 shall shew afterwards, yet
there are some general principles in which we hoth
agree: viz. first, that there is a God, and that this
God, having given us some stated general rules for our
service and ohedience, we ought not willingly and
knowingly to offend him, either hy neglecting to do
what lie has commanded, or hy doing what he has ex-
pressly forhidden ; and let our different religions he
what they will, this general principle is readily owned
hy us all, that the hlessing of God does not ordinarily
follow a presumptuous sinning against his command;
and every good Christian will he affectionately con-
cerned to prevent any that are under his care, living
in a total neglect of God and his commands It is not
your man heing Protestants, whatever my opinion
may he of such, that discharges me from heing con-
cerned for their souls, and from endeavouring, if it
lies hefore me, that they should live in as little dis-
tance from, and enmity with their maker as possihle;
especially if von give me leave to meddle so far in
yooi circuit 's
I could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and toln
him I granted all he had said; and thanked him that
ho would so far concern himself for us; and hegged
lit would explain the particulars of what he had oh-
served, thAt, like Joshua, (to take his own parahle) I
might put away the accursed thing from us.
"Why then, Sir," says he, "I will take the liherty
you give me; and there are three things which, if I am
right, must stand in the way of God's hlessing upon
your endeavours here, and which 1 should rejoice, for
your sake, and their own to see removed. And, Sir,"
nays he, "I promise myself that you will fully agree
with me in them all as soon as I name them: especi-
ally hecause I shall convince you that every one of
them may with great ease, and very much to your
satisfaction, h: remedied."
He gave me no leave to put In any more civilities,
tmt went on : "First, Sir, says he, "you have here
fonr Englishmen, who have fetched women frnn.
among the savages, and have taken them as their
.w ives, and have had many children hy them all, and
yet are not married to them after any stated legal [nan-
tier, as the laws of God and man require; and there-
lore are vet, in the sense of hoth, no less than adulte-
rers, ana living in adultery. To this, Sir," says he,
•* I know you will ohject, ihat there was no clergyman
or priest of any kind, or of any profession, to perform
the ceremony; nor any pen and ink, or paper, to » rit*
down a contract of marriage, and have it signed he-
tween them. And I know also, Sir, what the Spanir rd
governor has told you; 1 mean of the agreement that
lie ohliged them to make when they took these wo-
men, viz. that they should choose them out hy con-
sent, and keep separately to them; which, hy the way,
Is nothing of a marriage, no agreement with the wo-
men as wives, hut only an agreement among them-
selves, to keep them from quarreling.
"But, Sir, the essence of the sacrament of matri
mony (so he called it, heing a Roman) consists not
only in the mutual consent of the parties to take one
another as man and wife, hut in th• fonnal ftnd legal
ohligation that there is in tl.e contract to compel the
man and woman at ell times to own and acknowledge
ench other; ohliging the man to ahstain from allothe*
women, to engage in no other contract while these
tirhsist; and on all occasions, as ahility allows, to pro-
Tide honestly for them and their children ; ana to
ohlige the women to the same, on like conditions, mi*
Uitis mutandis on their side.
"Now, Sir," says he," these men may, when they
please, or when occasion presents, ahandon these wo-
men, disown their children, leave them to perish, and
take other women and marry them whilst these are
living." And here he adifed, with some warmth,
•* How, Sir, is God honoured in this unlawful liherty i
And how shall a hlessing succeed your endeavours in
this place, however good in themselves, and howevei
sincere in your design, while these men, who at pre-
sent are your suhjects under your ahsolute govern-
ment and dominion, are allowed hy you to live in
open adultery?"
I confess I was struck at the thing itself, hut much
more with the convincing arguments he supported it
with. For it was certainly true, that though they had
no clergyman on the spot, ye' a formal contract on
hoth sides, made hefore witnesses, and confirmed hy
any token which they had all agreed to he hound hy,
though it had heen hut the hreaking a stick hetween
them, engaging the men to own these women for their
wives upon all occasions, and never to ahandon them
or their children, and the women to ihe same with
their hushands, had heen an effectual lawful n-arriage
in the sight of God, and it was a great neglect that it
was not done.
But I thought to have gotten off with my rrmrnj
Friest hy telling him, that all that part was done when
was not here; and they had lived so many rears
with them now, that if it was adultery it was past re
eiedy, they could do nothing in it now.
"Sir," says he, " asking your pardon for such free
dom, you are right in this; that ii heing done In youi
ahsence, you could not he charged with that part of
the crime. But I heseech you, flattter not yourself
that you are not therefore under an ohligation to do
your uttermost now to put an end to it . How can
you think, hut that, let the time past lie on whom it
will, all the guilt for the future will lie entirely upon
you? Because it is certainly in your power now to put
an end to it, and in nohody's power hut yours."
I was so dull still, that I did not take him right, hul
I imagined that hy putting an end to it he meant that
I should part them, and not suffer them to live toge-
ther any longer; and I said to him 1 could not do that
hy any means, for that it would put the whole island
in confusion. He seemed surprised that I should so
far mistake him. "No, Sir," says he, "I do not
mean that you should separate them, hut legally and
effectually marry them now. And, Sir, as my way
of marrymg may not he so easy to reconcile them to,
though it will he as effectual even hy your own laws;
0o your way may he as well hefore God, and as valid
among men ; I mean hy a written contract signed hy
hoth man and woman, and hy all the witnesses pre-
vent; which all the laws of Europe would decree to
he valid."
I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so
much sincerity of zeal, hesides the unusual impartial-
ity in his discourse, as to his own party or church,
and such a true warmth for the preserving people
that he had no knowledge of or relation to; I say, for
preserving them from transgressing the laws of God;
the like of which I had indeed not met with any where.
Hut recollecting what he had said of marrying them
hy a written contract, which I knew would stand too,
1 returned it hack upon him and told him I granted
all that he had said to he just, and on his part very
kind; mat I would discourse with the men upon the
point now when 1 came to them. And I knew no
reason why they should scruple to let him marry them
•11; which I knew well enough would he granted to
he as authentic and vallid in England as if they were
afterwards done in this matter 1 shall speak of hy
itself.
1 then pressed him to tell me what was the secona
complaint which he had to make, acknowledging I
was very much his dehtor for the first, and thanked
h m heartily for it. He told me he would use the
same freedom and plainness in the second, and hoped
I would take it as well; and this was, that notwith-
standing these English suhjects of mine, as he called
them, had lived with these women for almost seven
years, and had taught them to speak English, and even
to read it, and that they were, as he perceived, wv
men of tolerahle understanding and capahle of in-
struction; yet they had not to this hour taught them
any thing of the Christian religion; no not so much
as to know that there was a God, or a worship, or in
what manner God was to he served ; or that their own
Idolatry, and worshiping they knew not who, wai
false and ahsurd.
This, he said, was an unaccountahle neglect, and
what God would certainly call them to an account
for; and perhaps at last take the work out of their
hands. He spoke this very affectionately and warmly.
M I am persuaded," says he, " had those men lived in
the savage country whence their wives came, the sa-
vages would have taken more pains to have hrought
them to he idolaters, and to worship the devil, than
any of these men, so far as I can see, has taken with
them to teach them the knowledge of the true God.
Now, Sir," said he, "though I do not acknowledge
your religion, or you mine, yet we should he all glad
to see the devil's servants, and the suhjects of his king-
dom, taught to know ihp general principles of the
Christian religion; that they might at least hear o
God, and of a Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and
of a future state, things which we all helieve; the}
married hy one of our own clei

What wai

had at least heen so much nearer coming into the ho-
som of the true church, than they are now in the puh-
lic profession of idolatry and devil-worship."
I could hold no longer; I took him in my arms,
and emhraced him with an excess of passion. "How
far," said I to him, *' have I heen from understand- J
Ing the most essential part of a Christian, viz. to love 5
the interest of the Christian church, and the good of 5
other men's souls ! I scarce have known what helongs <
to heing a Christian."—" O, Sir, do not say so," repli- c
ed he; " this thing is not your fault."—" No,"said 1, 5
"hut why did I never lay it to heart as well as you?" 5
• —" It is not too late yet," said he; "he not too for- <
ward to condemn yourself."—" But what can he done 2
now ?" said I; " you see I am going away."—" Will S
you give me leave," said he, "to talk with these poor >
men ahout it."—" Yes, with all my heart/' said I, j
u and I will ohlige them to give heed to what you say 5
too."—" As to that," said he, "we must leave them 5
to the mercy of Christ; hut it is our husiness to assist jj
them, encourage them, and instruct them ; and if you c
will give me leave, and God his hlessing, I do no' 5
\ douht hut the poor ignorant souls shall he hrought?
? home into the great circle of Christianity, if not into <
? the particular faith that we all emhrace; and that even \
\ while you stay here." * Upon this I said, " I shall not 5
? only give you leave, hut give you a thousand thanks 5
j for it." What followed on this account I shall men s
£ tior. also again in its place. t
c I now pressed him for the third article in which we \
? were to hlame. "Why really," says he, '' it is of
5 , the same nature, and I will proceed (askingyour leave")
C with the same plainness as hefore; it is ahout your
J poor savages yonder, who are, as I may say, youi
? conquered suhjects. It is a maxim, Sir, that is, or
? ought to he received among all Christians, of what
t church, or pretended church soever, viz. that Chris-
f tian knowledge ought to he propagated hy all possihle
I means, and on all possihle occasions. It is on this
s principle that our church sends missionaries into
L.
Persia, India, and China; and that our clergy, even
of the superior sort, willingly engage in the mosi
hazardous voyages, and the most dangerous residence
among murderers and harharians, to teach them the
knowledge of the true God, and to hring them over to
emhrace the Christian faith. Now, Sir, you have an
opportunity here to have six or seven-and-thirty poor
tavages hrought over from idolatry to the knowledge
itl God, their Maker and Redeemer, that I wonder
how you can pass hy such an occasion of doing good,
which is really worth the expense of a man's whole
life."
I was now struck dumb*indeed, and had not one
word to say; I had here a spirit of true christian
teal for God and religion hefore me, let his particular
principles he of what kind soever. As for me, I had
not so much as entertained a thought of this in my
heart hefore, and I helieve I should not have thought of
It; for I looked upon these savages as slaves, and
people whom, had we any work for them to do, we
would have used as such, or would have heen glad to
have transported them to any other part of the world:
for our husiness was to get rid of them, and we wouln
all have heen satisfied if they had heen sent to any
country, so they had never seen their own. But to
the case: I say 1 was confounded at his discourse, and
knew not what answer to make him. He looked ear-
nestly at me, seemg me in some disorder; "Sir,"
sax! he, "I shall he very sorry, if what I have said
gives you any offence.M—" No, no," said I, "I am
offended with nohody hut myself; hut I am perfectly
confounded, not only to think that 1 should never take
any notice of this hefore, hut with reflecting what no-
tice I am ahle to take of it now. You know. Sir,"
said I, *• what circumstances I am in: 1 am hound to
the East Indies, in a ship freighted hy merchants, and
to whom it would he an insufferahle piece of injustice
to detain their ship here, the men lying all this while
MX victuals and wages upon the ow ners' account . It il
true, 1 agreed to he allowed twelve days here, and if
I stay more I must pay 31. sterling per diem demur-
rage ; nor can 1 stay upon demurrage ahove eight dayi
more,and I have heen here thirteen days already; so
that i am perfectly unahle to engage in this work, un-
less I would suffer myself to he left hehind hera
again; in which case, if this single ship shouid mis-
carry in any part of her voyage, 1 shoui I he just in
the same condition that I was left in here at first, and
from which I have heen so wonderfully deliv»red."
He owned ihe case was very hard upon me as to
my voyage, hut lai I it home upon my conscience,
whether the hless'mg^fsaving seven-and-thirty sou It
was not worth my venturing all I had in the world
for? I was not so sensihle of that as he was, and I
returned upon him thus: tt. Why, Sir, it is a valuahle
thing indeed to hean instrument in God's hand to con-
vert seven-and-thirty heathens to the knowledge of
Christ; hut as you are an ecclesiastic, and are given
over to that work, so that it seems naturally to fall
into the way of your profession, how is it then that
you do not rather offer yourself to undertake it, than
press me to it?"
Upon this he faced ahout, just hefore me, as ha
walked along and putting me to a full stop, made ma
a very low how: "I most heartily thank God, and
you, Sir," says he, "for giving me so evident a call
to so hlessed a work ; and if you think yourself dis-
charged from it and deisre me to undertake it, I will
most readily do it, and think it a happy reward for all
the hazards and difficulties of such a hroken disap-
pointed voyage as 1 have met with, thatl have drop-
ped at last into so glorious a work."
I discovered a kind of rapture in his face while ha
spoke this to me ; his eyes sparkled like fire, his faca
glowed, and his colour came and went as if he had
heen falling mto fits; in a word, he was fired with the
joy of heing emharked in such a work. I paused a
considerahle while hefore I could tell what to sav tc
him, for 1 was really surprised to find a man of such
smcerity and zeal, and carried out in his zeal heyond
the nrdinany rate of men, not of his profession only,
hut even of any profession whatsoever. But after I
had considered it awhile, I asked him seriously if he
was in earnest, and that he would venture on the singl•
consideration of an attempt ou those poor people, trj
he locked up in an unplanted island for perhaps his
life, and at last might not know whether he should he
ahle to do them any good or not?
He turned short upon me, and asked me what I
called a venture ?" Pray, Sir," said he, " what do
you think I consented to go in your ship to the East
Indies for?"—"Nay'" said I, "that I know, not, un-
less it was to preach to the Indians."—" Douhtless it
was," said he; "and do you think if 1 can convert
these seven-and-thirty men to the faith of Christ, it is
not worth my time, though I should never he fetched
off the island again? Nay, is it not infinitely of more
worth to save so many souls than my life is, or the life
of twenty more of the same profession? Yes, Sir,"
says he, "1 would give Christ and the Blessed Virgin
thanks all my days, if I could he made the least hap-
py instrument of saving the souls of these poor men,
though 1 was never to set my foot off this island, or
nee my native country any more. But since you will
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. T23
work, (for which I will pray for you all the days of my
life) I have one humh'e petition to yon," said net
"hesides."—" What is that ?" said I. "Why," says
he " it is, that you will leave your man Friday with
me, to he my interpreter to them, and to assist me;
for without some help I cannot speak to them, or they
to me."
1 was xensihly trouhled at his requesting Friday, he*
cause I could not think of parting with him, and that
for many reasons. He had heen the companion of
my travels; he was not only faithful to me, hut sin-
cerely affectionate to the last degree; and I had re-
solved to do something considerahle for him il he out-
lived me as it was prohahle he would. Then I knew
that as I had hred Friday up to he a Protestant, it
would quite confound him to hring him to emhrace
another profession; and he would never, while hie
eyes were open, helieve that his old master was a he-
retic, and would he damned ; and this might in the
end ruin the poor fellow's principles, and so turn hjia
hack again to his first idolatry.
However, a sudden thought relieved me in this
114 LIFE AND ADVENTURES
1 was willing to part with Friday on any account
whatever; though a work that to him was of more
value than his lite, ought to me to he of much more
value than the keeping or parting with a servant. But
on the other hand,I was persuaded, that Friday would
hy no means consent to part with me; and then to
force him to it without his consent would he manifest
injustice, hecause I had promised I would never put
him away, and he had promised and engaged to me
that he would never leave me unless I put him away.
He seemed very much concerned at it; for he had
no rational access to these poor people, seeing he did
not understand one word of their language, nor they
one word of his. To remove this difficulty, 1 told
him Friday's father had learnt Spanish, which I found
he also understood, and he should serve him for an
interpreter; so he was much hetter satisfied, and no.
thing could persuade him hin he would stay to endea-
vour to convert them ; hut Providence gave another
and very happy turn to all this.
I come hack now to the first part of his ohjections.
When we came to the Englishmen I sent for them all
together; and after some accounts given them of what
I had done for them, viz. what necessary things I had
provided for them, and how they were distrihuted,
which they were sensihle of, and very thankful for; I
hegan to talk to them of the scandalous life they led,
and gave them a full account of the notice the clergy-
man had already taken of it; and arguing how un-
christian and irreligious a life it was, I first asked then)
if chey were married men or hachelors? They soon
explained their condition to me, and shewed me that
two of them were widowers, and the other three were
single men or hachelors, f asked them with what
conscience they could take these women, and lie with
them as they had done, call them their wives, and
have so many children hy them, and not he married
lawfully to them?
They all gave me the answer that I expected, viz.
that there was nohody to marry them; that they
agreed hefore the governor to keep them as treir
wives; and to keep them and own them as their
wives; and they thought as things stood with them,
they were as legally married as if they had heen mar-
ried hy a parson, and with all the formalities in the
world.
I told them that no douht they were married in the
sight of God, and were hound in conscience to keep
them as their wives; hut that the laws of men heing
otherwise, they might pretend they were not married,
and so desert the poor women and children hereafter;
and that their wives, heing poor, desolate women,
friendless and moneyless, would have no way to help
themselves: I therefore told them, that unless I was
assured of their honest intent, I could do nothing for
them; hut would take care that what I did should he
for the women and chidren without them ; and that
unless they would give some assurances that they
would marry the women, I could not think it was
convenient they could continue together as man and
wife; for that it was hoth scandalous to men and oC
fensive to God, who they could not think would hlessr
them if they went on thus.
All this passed as I expected; and they told me,
especially Will Atkins, who seemed now to speak fot
the rest, that they loved their wives as well as if they
had heen horn in their own native county, and would
not leave them upon any account whatever; and they
did verily helieve their wives were as virtuous and at
modest, and did to the utmost of their skill as muofa

29
for them and for their children as any women could
possihly do, and they would not part with them on
any account: and Will Atkins for his own particular
added, if any man would take him away, and offer to
carry him home to England, and to make him cap-
tain of the hest man of war in the navy, he would not
go with him if he might not carry his wife and chil-
dren with him; and if there was a clergyman in the
ship, he would he married to her now with all his
heart.
This was just as 1 would have it. The priest was
not with me at that moment, hut was not far off. Sa
to try him farther, I told him I had a clergyman with
me, and if he was sincere I would have him married
the next morning, and hade him consider of it, and
talk with the rest . He said, as for himself, he need
not consider of it at all, for he was very ready to dc
it, and was glad I had a minister with me; and he he-
lievtJ they would he all willing also. I then told
him that my friend the minister was a Frenchman,
and could not speak English, hut that I would act the
clerk hetween them. He never so much as asked
me whether he was a Papist or Protestant, which was
indeed what I was afraid of. But I say they never
inquired ahout it . So we parted; I went hack to my
clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk with his
companions. I desired the French gentlemen not to
say any thing to them till the husiness was thorough
ripe, and I told him what answer the men had given
•DC
Before I went from their quarter they all came to
me, and told me, they had heen considering what I
had said; that they were very glad to hear I had a
clergyman in my company; and they were very wil-
lmg to give me the satisfaction I desired, and to he
formally married as soon as I pleased; for they were
far from desiring to part from their wives; and that
they meant nothmg hut what was ver> honest wnen
they chose them. So I appointed them to meet me
lite uext mormng, and that in the mean time ihev
127
khouM let their wives know the meanmg of the mar
riage law; and that it was not only to prevent any
scandal, hut a'so to ohlige them thai they should not
forsake them, whatever might happen.
The women were easily made sensihle of the mean-
ing of the thing, and were very well satisIied with it,
as indeed they had reason to he; so they failed not to
attend all together at my apartment next morning,
where 1 hrought out my clergyman : and though he
had not on a minister's gown, after the manner of
England, or the hahit of a priest, after the manner of
France; yet having a hlack vest, something like a
cassock, with a sash round it, he did not look very
unlike a minister; and as for his language 1 was in-
terpreter.
But the seriousness of his hehaviour to ihem, and
the scruple he made marrying the women hecause
they were not haptised, and professed Christians, gave
them an exceeding reverence for his person; and
there was no need after that to inquire whether ha
*as a clergyman or no. •
Indeed Iwas afraid his scruple would have heen
carried so far that he would not have married them
at all: nay, notwithstanding all I was ahle to say to
him, he resisted me, though modestly, yet very stea-
dily; and at last refused ahsolutely to marry them,
unless he had first talked with the men and the wo-
men too; and though at first I was a little hackward
to it, yet at last I agreed to it with a good will, per-
ceiving the sincerity of his design.
When he came to them, he let them know that I
had acquainted him with their circumstances, and with
the present design; that he was very willing to per-
form that part of his function, and marry them as I
had desired; hut that hefore he could do it, he must
take the liherty to talk with them. He told them that
in the sight of all different men, and in the sense of
the laws of society, they had lived all this whde in an
open adultery ; and that it was true that nothing hut
the consenting to marry, or effectually separating them
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
from one another now, could put an end to it; hut
there was a difficulty in it too, with respec t to the
laws of Christian matrimony, which he was not fully
satined ahout, vis. that of marrying one that is a pro-
fessed Christian to a savage, an idolater, and a hea-
then, one thai is not haptised; and yet that he did
not see that there was time left for it to endeavour to
persuade the women to he hahtised, or to profess the
name of Christ, whom they had, he douhted, heard
nothing of, and without which they could not he hap-
tired.
He told me he douhted they were hut indifferent
Christians themselves; that they had hut little know-
ledge of God or his ways, and therefore he could not
expect that they had sa:d much to their wives on that
head yet; hut that unless they would promise him to
use their endeavours with their wives to persuade them
to hecome Christians, nnd would as well as they could
instruct them in the knowledge and helief of God that
made them, and to worship Jesus Christ that redeem-
ed them, he could not marry them; for he would have
no hand in joining Christians with savages; nor was
it consistent with the principles of the Christian reli-
gion, and was indeed expressly forhidden in God's law.
They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered
it very faithfully to them from his mouth, as near his
own words as I could, only sometimes adding some-
thing of my own, to convince them how just it was,
and how I was of his mind: and I always very faith-
fullv distinguished hetween what I said from my sell
and what were the clergyman's words. They told me
it was very true what the gentleman had said, that
they were hut very indtfferent Christians themselves,
and that they had never talked to their wives ahout re-
ligion.—" Lord, Sir," says Will Atkins " how should
we teach them religion? Why, we know nothing our-
selves; and hesides, Sir," said he, "should we go to
talk to them of God, and Jesus Christ, and heaven and
hell, it would he to make them laugh at us, and ask
us what we helieved ourselves r' and if we should tall

b helieve all 'he things that we speak of to them,
such as of good people going to heaven, and wicked
people to the devil, they would ask us, where we in
tended to go ourselves who helieve all this, and yet
are such wicked fellows, as we indeed are : why, Sir,"
said Will, "'tis enough to give them a surfeit of reli-
gion, at first hearing: folks must have some religion
themselves hefore they pretend to teach other pen pi t.s
—" Will Atkins," said I to him, ** though I am afraid
what you say has too much truth in it, yet can youj
not tell your wife that she is in the wrong; that them
is a Hod, and a religion hetter than her own ; that her
gods are idols; that they can neither hear nor speak;
that there is a great Being that made all things, and
that can destroy allthat he has made; that he rewards
the good, and punishes the had; that we are to he
judged hy him, at last, for all we do here? You ars
not so ignorant hut even nature itself will teach you
that all this is true; and I am satisfied you know it all
to he true, and helieve it yourself."
"That's true, Sir," said Atkins; "hut with what
face can I say any thing to my wife of all this, when
•he will tell me immediately it cannot he true?"
u Not true !" said I ; " what do you mean hy that r*
—" Why, Sir," said he, " she will tell me it cannot
he true: that this God (I shall tell her of) can he iust,
or can punish or reward, since I am not punished and
sent to the devil, that have heen such a wicked crea-
ture as she knows I have heen, even to her, and to
every hody else; and that I should he suffered to live,
that have heen always acting so contrary to what I
must tell her is good, and to what I ought to have
done."
"Why truly, Atkins," said I, "I am afraid thou
•pcakest too much truth ; and with that I let the cler-
gyman know what Atkins had said, for he was im-
patient to know. "O!' said the priest, "tell him
there is one thing will make hun the hest minister in
the world to his wife, and that is repentance; for r
Vol. tf.

te»ch repentance like true penitents. He wants no
thing hut to repent, and then he will he so much the
hetter qualified to instruct his wife; he will then he
ahle to tell her, that there is not only a God and that
he is the lust rewarder of good and evil ; hut that ho
is a mercitul Being, and, with infmite goodness and;
long-suffering, forhears to punish those that offend;
waiting to he gracious, and willing not the death of •
tinner, hut rather that lie should retum and live , ttut
he ofte/i suffers wicked men to go on a long time, and
even reserves damnation to the general day of retrihu-
tion : that it is a clear evidence of God, and of a
future state, that righteous men receive not their re-
ward, or wicked meu their punishment, till they come
mto another world; and this will lead him to teach
his wife the doctrine of the resurrection, and of the last
judgment: let him hut repent for himself, he will he
an excellent preacher of repentance to his wife."
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very se-
rious all the while, and who, we could easily per-
ceive, was more than ordinarily affected with it: when
heing eager, and hardly suffering me to make an end
—" I knew all this, master," says he, "and a great
deal more; hut I han't the impudence to talk thus to
my wife, when God and my own conscience knows,
and my wife will he an undeniahle evidence against
me, that I have lived as if I never heard of God, or
a future state, or any thing ahout it; and to talk of my
repenting, alas! (and with that he fetched a deep
ngh ; and I could see that tears stood in his eyes,) 'tis
past all that with me."—" Past it, Atkins!" said I;
"what dost thou mean hy that ?"—.' I know well
enough what I mean, Sir," says he; " I mean 'tis too
ate ; and that is too true."
I told my clergyman word for word what he said.
The poor zealous priest (1 must call him so; for, he
his opinion what it will, he had certainly a most sin-
gular affection for the good of other men's souls: and
it would he hard to think he had not the like for his
own)—I say, this zealous, affectionate man could uot
131
refrain tears also: hut recovering him sell he said to
me, "Ask him hut one question: Is he easy tint it
so?" I put the question fairly to Atkins; and he an-
swered with a great deal of passion, "He w could any
man he easy in a condition that certainly must end
in eternal destruction ? That he was far from heing
easy; hut that on the contrary, he helieved it would
one time or the other ruin him."
"What do you mean hy that Ps said I.—" Why,"
he said " he helieved he should, one time or another,
Cut his own throat to put an end to the terror of it."
The clergyman shook his head, with a great con-
cern in his face, when I told him all this; hut turning
quick to me upon it, said, "If that he his case, you
may assure him it is not too late; Christ will give
him repentance. But pray," says he, "explain this
to him, that as no man is saved hut hy Christ, and the
merit of his passion procuring divine mercy for him,
hnw can it tre too late for any man to receive mercy?
Dtms he think he is ahle to sin heyond the power or
reach of divine mercy? Pray-tell him, there may he a
time when provoked mercy will no longer strive, and
when God may refuse to hear; hut that 'tis never too
Ate for men to ask mercy; and we that are Christ's
servants are commanded to preach mercy at all times,
in the name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely
repent: so that 'tis never too late to repent."
I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great
earnestness; hut it seemed as if he turned offthe dis-
course to the rest; for he said to me he would go and
have some talk with his wife: so he went out awhile,
and we talked to the rest. I perceived they were all
stupidly ignorant as to matters of religion; much as
I was when I we>it ramhling away from my father;
snd yet that there were noneof them hackward to hear
what had heen said; and all of them seriously pro-
mised that they would talk with their wives ahout it,
and do their endeavour tc persuade them to turn
Christians.
is

he trouhled, and wishes it were not
Th• clergyman smiled upon me when I reported
what answer they gave, hut said nothing a good while,
hut at last shaking his head, "We that are Christ's
servants," says he, " can go no farther than to exhort
and instruct; and when men comply, suhmit to the
reproof, and promise what we ask, 'tis all we can do \
we are hound to accept their good words; hut he-
ieve me, Sir," said he, "whatever you may have
•nown of the life of that man you call W illiam Atkins,
I helieve he is the only sincere convert among them ,
I take that man to he a true penitent; 1 won't de-
spair of the rest; hut that man is perfectly struck with
the sense of his past life; and 1 douht not hut when
he comes to talk of religion to his wife, he will talk
himself effectually into it; for attempting to teach
others is sometimes the hest way of teaching ourselves.
1 knew a man," added he, " who having nothing hut
a summary notion of religion himself, and heing
wicked and profligate to the last degree in his life,
made a thorough reformation in himself hy lahour-
ing to convert a Jew : and if that poor Atkins hegins
hut once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife,
my life for it he talks himself into a thorough convert,
makes himself a penitent; and who knows what may
follow?"
Upon this discourse, however, and their promising
as ahove to endeavour to persuade their wives to em-
hrace Christianity, he married the other three couple;
hut Will Atkins and his wife were not yet come in.
After this, my clergyman waiting awhile, was curious
to know where Atkins was gone; and turning tn me,
says he, " I entreat you. Sir, let us walk, out of yooi
lahyrinth here and look; I dare say we shall find
this poor man some - here or other, talking seriously
with his wife, and teaching her already something o|
religion." I hegan to he of the same mind , so we
went out together, and I carried him a way which
none knew hut myself, and where the trees were so
thick set, as that it was not easy to see through the
thicket of leaves, and far harder to see ir. than to see
•at; when coming to the edge of the wood I nw
Atkins, and his tawny savage wife, sitting under the
shade of a hush, very eager in discourse. I stopped
short till my clergymen came up to me, and then
having shewed him where they were, we stood and
looked very steadily at them a good while.
We ohserved him very earnest with her, pointmg
up to the sun, and to every quarter of the heavens;
tneu down to the earth, then out to the sea, then to
himself, then to her, to tho woods, to the trees,
"Now," says my clergyman, "you see my words
are made good ; the man preaches to her; mark him <
now he is telling her that our God lias made him, and
her and the heavens and the earth, the sea, the woods,
(he trees, &c."—" I helieve he is," said I. Imme-
diately we perceived Will Atkins start up up upon his
feet fall down upon his knees, and lift up hoth his
hands; we supposed he said something, hut we could
not hear him ; it was too far off for that ; he did not
continue kneeling half a minute, hut comes and sits
down again hy his wife, and talks to her again. We
perceived then the woman very attentive, hut whether
she said any thing or no we could not tell. While
the poor fellow was upon his knees, I could see the
tears run plentifully down my clergyman's cheeks;
and 1 could hardly forhear myself; hut it was a great
affliction to us hoth, that we were not uear enough
to hear any thing that passed hetween them.
Well, however, we could come no nearer for fear
of disturhing them ; so we resolved to see an end of
this piece of still conversation, and it spoke loud
enough to us without the help of voice. He sat down
again, as 1 have said, close hy her, and talked again
earnestly to hox, and two or three times we could see
him emhrace her passionately: another time we saw
him take out his handkerchiel and wipe her eyes,
ftnd then kiss her again, with a kind of transport very
unusual; and after several of these things, we saw him
on a suden jump up again and lend her his hand to
uelp her up, when immediately leading her hy the
hand a step or two, they hoth kneeled down together,
and continued so ahout two minutes.
My friend could hear it no longer, hut cries out
aloud, "St. Paul, St. Paul, hehold he prayeth \n—1
was afraid Atkins would hear him: therefore I en-
treated him to withhold himself awhile, that we might
see an end of the scene, which to me, I must confess,
was the most affecting, and yet the most agreeahle,
that ever I saw in my life. Well, he strove with
himself, and contained himself for awile, hut was in
such raptures of joy to think that the poor heathen
woman was hecome a Christian, thai he was not ahle
to contain himself; he wept several times; then throw-
ing up his hands, and crossing his hreast, said over
several things ejaculatory, and hy way of giving God
thanks for so miraculous a testimony of the success of
our endeavours; some he spoke softly, and I could
not well hear; others audihly; some in Latin, some
in French ; then two or three times the tears of joy
would interrupt him, that he could not speak at all
But I hegged that he would compose himself, and lei
us more narrowly and fully ohserve what was hefore
us, which he did for a time, and the scene was not
ended there yet; for after the poor man and his wife
were risen again from their knees, we ohserved he
stood talking still eagerly to her; and we ohserved
hy her motion that she was greatly affected with what
he said, hy her frequent lifting up her hands, laying
her hand to her hreast, and such other postures as
usually express the greatest seriousness and attention.
This continued ahout half a quarter of an hour, and
then they walked away too; so that we could see no
more of them in that situation."
I took this interval to talk with my clergyman
ftnd first I told him, I was glad to see the particulars
we had hoth heen witnesses to; that though I was
hard enough of helief in such cases, yet that I hegan
to think it was all very sincere here, hoth in the man
and his wife, however ignorant they hoth might he ,
» and 1 hoped such a heginning would have yet a more
happy end: "And who knows," said I, "hut these
two may in time, hy instruction and example, work
upon some of the others r" " some of them !" said he,
turning quick upon me, " ay, upon all of them ; de-
pend upon it, if those two savages (for he has heen
hut little hetter as you relate it) should emhrace Jesus
Christ, they will never leave till they work upon all
the rest; for true religion is naturally communicative,
and he that is once made a Christian will never leave
a I'agm hehind him if he can help it." I owned it
was a most Christian principle to think so, and a tes-
timony of a true zeal, as well as a generous heart in
him. "But, my friend," said I, " will you give me
liherty to start one difficulty here? I cannot tell how
to ohject the least thing against that affectionate con-
cern which you shew for the turning the poor people
from their I'aganisiu to the Christian religion ; hut
how does this comfort you, while these poople are, in
your account, out of the pale of the Catholic church,
without which, you Itelieve, there is no salvation ; so
that you esteem these hut heretics still; and, for other
reasons, as effectually lost as the Pagans themselves ?*
To this he answered with ahundance of candour
and Christian charity, thus: "Sir, I am a Catholic
of the Roman church, and a priest of the order of St
.
Benedict, and I emhrace all the principles of the Ro-
man faith. But yet, if you will helieve me, and this
1 do not spoak in compliment to you, or in respect
to my circumstances and your civilities; I say never-
theless 1 do not look upon you, who call yourselvea
reformed, without some charity; I dare not say, though
1 know it is our opinion in general, yet I dare not
say, ihat you cannot he saved; 1 will hy no means
limit the mercy of Christ, so far as to think that he
aannofreceive you into the hosom of his church, in a
manner to us imperceivahle, and which it is impossu
hle for us to know; and I hope you have the same
•harity for us. I pray daily for your heing all restored
to Christ's church, hy whatsoever methods he who
U all-wise, is pleased to direct In the mean time.
•ure you will allow it to consist with
to distinguish far hetween a Prrtestant and a Pagan,
hetween him that calls on Jesus Christ, though in a
way which I do not think is according to the true
faith ; and a savage, a harharian, that knows no God,
do Christ, no Redeemer at all; and if you are nar
within the pale of the Catholic church, we hope yoa
are nearer heing restored to it than those that know
nothing at all of God or his church. I rejoice, there-
fore, when I see this poor man, who, you say, hat
heen a profligate, and almost a murderer, kneel down
and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did, though
not fully enlightened; helieving that God, from whom
every such work proceeds, will sensihly touch hi•
heart and hring him to the further knowedge of the
truth in his own time; and if God shall influence this
poor man to convert and instruct the ignorant savage
Iiis wife, I can never helieve that he shall he cast
away himself; and have I not reason then to rejoice,
the nearer any are hrought to the knowledge of Christ,
though they may not he hrought quite home into the
hosom of the Catholic church, just at the time when
I may desire it; leaving it to the goodness of Christ
to perfect his work in his own time, and his own way?
Certainly 1 would rejoice if all the savages in America
were hrought, like this poor woman, to pray to God,
though they were to he all Protestants at first, rather
than they should continue pagans and heathens; firm-
ly helievmg, that He who had hestowed that first light
upon them, would farther illuminate them with a heam
of his heavenly grace and hring them into the pale of
his church, when he should see good."
I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of thia
truly pious Papist, as much as I was opptessed hy the
power of his reasoning; and it presently occured to
my thoughts, that if such a temper was universal we
might he all Catholic Christians, whatever church ox
particular profession we v/ere joined to, or joined in ,
that a spirit of charity would soon work us all up into
right principles; and in a word as he thought thai
the like charity would make us all Catholics, as I told
nim, 1 helieved had all the memhers of his church the
1ike moderation they would soon he all Protestants \
and there we left that part, for we never disputed at
ail.
However, I talked to him another way ; and tak-
ing him hy the hand, "My friend," said I, "1 wish
all the clergy of the Roman church were hlessed with
such moderation, and an equal share of your charity.
I am entirely of your opinion; hut 1 must tell you,
that if you should preach such doctrine in Spain or
Italy, they would put you into the Inquisition."
"It may he so, said he; "I know not what they
might do in Spain and Italy; hut I will nol say they
would he the hetter Christians for that severity ; for I
am sure there is no heresy in too much charity."
Well, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our
husiness there was over; so we went hack our own
way and when we came hack we found them wait-
ing to he called in. Ohserving this, I asked my cler-
gyman if we should discover to him that we had seen
him uuder the hush, or no; and it was his opinion
we should not; hut that we should talk to him firat,
and hear what he would say to us : so we called him
in alone, nohody heing in the place hut ourselves ;and
I hegan with him thus:
"Will Atkins," said I, "pr'ythee what education
had you? What was your father?"
W. A. A hetter man than ever 1 shall he. Sir, my
father was a clergyman.
What education did he give you?
W. A He would have taught me well, Sir; hut I
despised all education, instruction, or correction, like
a heast as I was.
R. C. It is true, Solomon says, " He that despiseth
reproof is hrutish."
W. A. Ay, Sir, I was hrutish indeed; I murdered
tny father; for God's sake, Sir, talk no more ahout
Chat, Sir; I murdered my poor father.
FriesL Ua a murderer?
'Here the priest started (for I interpreted every
word as he spoke it), and looked pale; it seema
he helieved that Will had really killed his own
father.
R. C. No, no, Sir, I do not understand him so.
Will Atkins, explain yourself: you did not kill your
'at her, did you, with your own hands?
W. A. No. Sir; I did not cut his throat; hut I cut
the thread of all his comforts, and shortened his day*
I hroke his heart hy the most ungrateful, unnatural
return for the most tender, affectionate treatment that
ever father gave, or child could receive.
R. C. Well, I did not ask you ahout your father
to extort this confession : I pray God give you repent-
ance for it, and forgive you that and all your other
sins; hut I asked you, because I see that, though you
have not much learning, yet you are not so ignorant as
some are in things that are good ; that you have known
more of religion a great deal than you have practised.
W. A. Though you, Sir, did not extort the confes-
sion that I make ahout my father, conscience does;
and whenever we come to look hack upon our lives,
the sins against our indulgent parents are certainly
the first that touch us; the wounds they make lie
deepest; and the weight they leave will lie heaviest
upon the mind of all the sins we can commit
.
R. C. You talk too feelingly and sensihle for me,
Atkins; I cannot hear it.
W. A. You hear it, master! I dare say you know
nothing of it.
R. C. Yes, Atkins, every shore, every hill, nay, I
may say every tree in this island, is witness to the
anguish of my soul for my ingratitude and hase usage
of a good tender father; a father much like yours hy
your description'; and 1 murdered my father as weil
•s you, Will Atkins; hut think for all that, my re-
pentance is short of yours too, hy a great deal.
[I would have said more, ifl could have restrained
my passions; hut I thought this poor man's
repentance was so much sincerer than m ine

.V/V.VJVAW.
that I was gomg to leave off the discourse and
retire, for I was surprised with what ne said,
and thought, that, instead'of my going ahout to
teach and instruct him, the man was made a
teacher and instructor to me, in a most sur-
prising and unexpected manner.]
I laid all this hefore the young clergyman who wag
greatly affected with it, and said to me, Did I not
tay, Sir, that when this man was converted he would
preach to us all? I tell you, Sir, if this one man he
made a true penitent, here will he no need of me, ha
will make Christians of all in the island." But har-
ing a little composed myself I renewed my discourse
with Will Atkins.
"But, Will," said I, " how comes the sense of this
matter to touch you just now?"
W. A. Sir, you have set me ahout a work that has
struck a dart through my very soul; 1 have heen talk-
ing a!Hiut God and religion to my wife, in order, ai
you directed me, to make a Christian of her; and she
has preached such a sermon to me at 1 shall never
forget while I live.
rL C. No, no; it is not your wife has preached to
you; hut when you were moving religious arguments
to her, conscience has flung them hack upon you.
W. A. Ay, Sir, with such a force as is not to he re-
sisted.
R. C. Pray Will, let us know what passed hetween
you and your wife; for 1 know something of it al-
ready.
W. A. Sir, it is impossihle to give you a full ac-
count of it: I am too full to hold it, and yet have no
tongue to express it: hut let her have said what she
will, and though I cannot give you an account of it,
this I can tell you of it, that I resolve to amend and
reform my life.
R. C. But tell us some of it . How did you hegin,
Will ? for this has heen an extraordinary case, that is
certain; she has preached a sermon indeed, if she has
wrought this upon you.

W. A. Why, I first told her the nature of our laws
ahout marriage, and what the reasons were that men
and women were ohliged to enter into such compact*
as it was neither in the power of one or other to oreak;
that otherwise, order and justice could not he main-
tained, and men would run from their wives and
ahandon their children, mix confusedly with one an-
other, and neither lamilies he kept entire, or inherit-
ances he settled hy a legal descent
.
R. C. You talk like a civilian, Will . Could you
make her understand what you meant hy inheritance
and families? They know no such thing among the
savages, hut marry any how, without any regard to
relation, consangumity, or family; hrother and sister,
Day, as I have heen told, even the farther and daugh-
ter, and the son and the mother.
W. A. I helieve, Sir, you are misinformed;—my
wife assures me of the contrary, and that they ahhor
it . Perhaps for any further relations they may not he
so exact as we are ; hut she tells me they never touch
one another in the near relations you speak of.
R. C. Well, what did she say to what you told her?
W. A. She said she liked it very well; and it was
much hetter than in her country.
R. C. But did you tell her what marriage was?
W. A. Ay, ay, there hegan all our dialogue. I ask-
ed her, if she would he married to me our way? Sh*
asked me, what waythat was.31 bold her marriage was
appointed of God; and here we had a strange talk to-
gether indeed, as ever man and wife had, I helieve.
[N. B. This dialogue detween W. Atkins and his
wife, as I took it down in writmg just after he
told it me, was as follows:]
fVife. Appointed hy your God ! Why, have you a
God in your country?
W. A. Yes, my dear; God is in every country.
JVjfe. No, your God in my country; my country
have the great old Benamuckee God.
W A. Child, I am very unfit to shew you who God
is; God is in heaven, and made the heaven and th*
eatth, the sea, and all that in them is.
Wite. No oiakee deearth; no you God makee da
earth ; no make my country.
[W. A. laughed a little at her expression of God
not making her country.]
Wife. No laugh: why laugh me? This no ting tc
augls.
[He was justly reproved hy his wife, for she wa•
more serious than he at first.]
W. A. That'strue, indeed; 1 will not laugh any
more my dear.
Wife. Why you say, you God make all?
W. A. Yes, child, our God made the whole world,
and you, and me, and all things; for he is the only
true God; there is no God hut he; he lives for ever in
heaven.
Wife. Why you no tell me long ago,
W. A. That's true, indeed ; hut 1 have heen a wick-
ed wretch, and have not only forgotten to acquaint
thee with any thing hefore, hut have lived without
God in the world myself.
Wife. What have you de great God inyourcoun-
try, you no know him r No say O to him ? No do good
ting for him? That no impossihle!
W. A. It is too true though, for all that: we live as
If there was no God in heaven, or that he had no
Dower on earth.
Wife. But why God let you do so? Why he do
snakee you good live?
W. A. It is all our own fault.
Wife. But you say me he is great, much great, have
much great power; can make kill when he will: why
he no makee kill when you no serve him? no say O
to him s no l:e good mans?
W. A. That is true; he might siriko me dead, and
I ought to expect it; for 1 have heen a wicked wretch,
that is true: hut God is merciful, and does not deal
with us as we deserve.
30
Wife. But then do you not tell God tankee for that
too?
W. A. No indeed; I have not thanked God for his
mercy, any more than I have feared God for hie
power.
Wife. Then you God no God; me no tink, helieve
he he such one, great much power, strong; no:nakee
kill you, though you makee him much angry?
W. A. What! will ?ny wicked life hinder you from
helieving in God! What a dreadful creature am I!
And what a ^ad truth is it, that the horrid lives of
Christians hinder the conversion of heathens!
Wife. How me tink you have great much God up
there, (she points up to heaven) and yet no do well,
no do good ting ? can he tell? Sure he no tell what
you do.
W. A. Yes, yes, he knows and sees all things; ha
hears us speak, sees what we do, knows what we
think, though we do not speak.
Wife. What he no hear you swear, curse, speak
the great damn?
VV. A. Yes, yes, he hears it all.
Wife. Where he then the muchee great powea
strong?
W. A. He is merciful; that is all we can say for it |
and this proves him to he the true God; he is Goo*
and not man ; and therefore we are not consumed.
[Here Will Atkins told us lie was struck with ho»-
ror to think how he could tell his wife so clearly
that God sees, and hears, and knows the secret
thoughts of the heart, and all that we do; and
yet that he had dared to do all the vile things
he had done ]
Wife. Merciful what you call dat?
W. A. He is our rather and maker; and he piths
snd spare* us.
Wile, oo then he never makee kill, never angry
when you do wicked; then he no good himself,oruo
great ahle.
W. A. Yes, yes, my dear; he is infinitely good^
aod infinitely great and ahle to punish too ; and sonto-
bmes, to shew his justice and vengeance, he lets fly
his anger to destroy sinners and make examples;
many are cut off in their sins.
Wife. But no makee kill you yet; then he tell you,
may he, that he no makee you kill, so you make da
hargain with him, you do had ting; he no he angry at
you, when he he angry at other mans?
01 KOBINSON CRUSOE 1!3
upon his goodness; and he would he infinitely just if
he destroyed me as he has done other men.
Wife. Well and yet no kill, no makee you lead I
What you say to him for that? You no tell him tankee
for all that too!
W. A. I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that jt
true.
Wife. Why he no makee you much good hetter i
You say he makee you.
W. A. He made me as he made all the world; 'ti•
I have deformed myself, and aliused his goodness, and
have made myself an ahominahle wretch.
Wife. I wish you makee God know me; I no
makee him angry; I no do had wicked ting.
[Here Will Atkins said his heart sunk within him,
to hear a poor, untaught creature desire to he
taught to know God, and he .such a wicked
wetch that he could not say one word to her
ahout God, hut what the reproach of his own
carriage would make most irrational to her to
helieve; nay, that already she could not helieve
in God hecause he that was so wicked was not
destroyed.]
W. A. My dear you mean you wish I could teach
you to know God, not God to know you, for ha
knows you already, and every thought in your heart.
Wife. Why then he knows what! say to you now;
he know me wish to know him; how shall me know
who makee me?
W. A. Poor creature, he must teach thee, 1 cannot
teach tiiee; I'll pray to him to teach thee to kuow
him ; and to forgive me that I am unwoithy to
thee.
[The pooi fellow was in such an agony at her de-
tiring him to make her know God, and hei
wishing to know him, that he said he fell down
on his knees hefore her, and prayed to God to
enlighten her mind with the saving knowledgti
of Jesus Christ, and to pardon his sins and a-s
cept of his heing the unworthy instrument of
instructing her in the principles of religion
after which he sat down hy her again, and their
dialogue went on.]
N. B. This was the time when we saw him kneed
down and lift up his hands.
Wife. What you put down the knee fnr? What you
hold up the hand for? What you say? Who you speak
to ? What is that?
W. A. My dear 1 how my knees in token of my
suhmission to Him that made me : I said O to him, as
you call it, and as you say your old men do to their
idol Benamuckee; that is, 1 prayed to him.
Wife. What you say O to him for?
W. A. I prayed to him to open your eyes and youi
understandmg, that you may know him, and he ac-
cepted hy him.
Wife. Can he do that too?
VV. A. Yes, he can; he can do all things.
Wife. But he no hear what you say?
W. A. Yes, he has hid us pray to him; and pro
mised to hear us.
Wife. Bid you pray? When he hid you? How be
hid you? What you near him speak r
W. A. No, we do not hear him speak; hut he has
wealed himself many ways in us.
[Here he was at a great loss to make her under
stand that God had revealed himself to us hy
his word; and what his word was; hut at last
he told it her thus :]
W. A. God has spoken to some good men in tormei
days, even from heaven, hy plain words; and God
has mspired good men hy his Spirit ; and they hitve
written all his laws down in a hook.
Wife. Me no understand that : where is Iwok?
W. A. Alas! my poor creature, I have not this
hook; hut I hope I snail, one time or other, get it lor
you to read it.
] Here he emhraced her with great a fleet ion; hut
with inexpressihle grief, that he had not %
Bihle]
Wife. But how you makee me know that God
teachee them to write that hook?
W. A. By the same rule that we know him to h*
God.
Wife. What rule? what way you know?
W. A. Because he teaches and commands nothing
hut what is good, righteous, and holy, and tends to
make us perfectly good, as well as perfectly happy;
and hecause he forhids, and commands us to avoid,
all that is wicked, that is evil in itself, or evil in its
consequences.
Wife. That me would understand, that me fain see,
if he reward all good thing, punish all wicked thing,
he teachee all good thing, forhid all wicked thing, he
makee all thing, he give all thing; he hear me when I
say O to him, as you go to do just now; he makee
me good if I wish he good; he spare me, no makee
kill me when 1 no he good ; all this you say he do i
yes, he he great God; rne take, think, helieve him he
great God; me say O to him too with you, my dear.
Here the pour man said he could forhear no longer;
hut, raising her up, made her kneel hy him ; and he
prayed to God aloud to instruct her in the knowledge
ol himself hy his Spirit; and that hy some good pro-
vidence, if possihle, she might some time or other
come to have a Bihle, that she might read the wortI of
God, and he taught hy him to know him.
[This was the time that we paw him lift her up hy
the han 1, and saw him kneel down hy her, a*
ahove.]
VOL. II.
They had several other discourses, it seems, aftei
this, too long to set down here; and particularty she
made him promise, that, since he con tossed his own
life had heen a wicked, ahominahle course of provo-
cation against God, he would reform it, and not make
God angry any more, lest he should make him dead,
as she railed it, and then she should he left alone, and
never he taught to know this God hetter; and lest he
should he miserahle, as he told her wicked men should
he after death.
This was a strange account, and very affecting to ut
hoth, hut particularly the young clergymen; he was
indeed wonderfully surprised with it; hut under the
greatest affliction imaginahle that he could not talk to
her; that he could not speak English to make her un-
derstand him; and as she spoke hut very hroken Eng-
lish he could not understand her. However,heturned
himself to me, and told me, that he helieved there
must he more to do with this woman than to marry
her. I did not understand him at first, hut at length
he explained himself, viz. that she ought to he hap-
tized.
I agreed with him in that part readily, and was foi
going ahout it presently: "No, no, hold, Sir," said
he ; "though I would have her haptized hy all means,
yei I must ohserve, that Will Atkins, her hushand, has
mdeed hrought her, in a wonderful manner, to he
willing to emhrace a religious life; and has given her
Just ideas of the heing of a God, of his power, jus-
tice, and mercy: yet I desire to know of him, if he
has said any thing to her of Jesus Christ, and of the
salvation of sinners; of the nature of faith in him,
and the redemption hy him ; of the Holy Spirit, the.
resurrection, the last judgment, and a future state."
I called Will Atkins again, and asked him: hut the
poor fellow fell immediately into tears, and told us hi
had said something to her of all those things, hut that
he was himself so wicked a creature, and his own
conscience so reproached him with his horrid, ungodhr
life, that he tremhled at the apprehensions, that hat
t—

knowledge of him should lessen the attention she
Should give to those things, and make her rather con-
temn religion that receive it: hut he was assured, he
said, that her mind was so disposed to receive due im-
pressions of all those things, that, if I would hut dis-
course with her, she would make it appear to my sa-
tiifaction that my lahour would not he lost upon her.
Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself as
Interpreter hetween my religious priest and the woman.
I entreated him i: hegin with her. But sure such a
termon was never preached hy a popish priest in these
latter ages of the world ; and, as I told him, I thought
he had all the zeal, all the knowledge, all the sincerity
of a Christian, without the errors of a Roman Catho-
lic; and that 1 took him to he such a clergyman as the
Roman hishops were hefore the church of Rome as-
sumed spiritual sovereignty over the consciences of
men.
In a word, he hrought the poor woman to emhrace
(he knowledge of Christ, and of redemption hy him,
not with wonder and astohishment only, as she did
the first notions cf a God, hut with joy and faith, with
an affection and a surprising degree of understanding,
scarce to he imagined, much less to he expressed ; and
at her own request she was haptised.
When he was preparing to haptise her, I entreated
lim, that he would perform that office with some cau-
tion, that the man might not perceive he was of the
Roman church, if possihle; hecause of other ill con-
sequences which might attend a difference among us in
that very religion which we weie instructing the other
In. He told me, that as he had no consecrated chapel,
nor proper things for the office, 1 should see he would
do ft in a manner that I should not know hy it that he
was a Roman Catholic himself if I had not known it
hefore and so lie did ; for saying only some words
over to himself in Latin, which I could not under-
stand, he poured a whole dishful of water upon tha
woman's head, pronouncing in French very loud,
Mary (which was the name her hushand desired ma

to give her, for I was her godfather,') /haptise tht*
in the name of the Father\ and of the Son, and of ths
Holy Ghost; so that none could know any thing hy
it what religion he was of: he gave the henediction
afterwards in Latin ; hut either Will Atkins did not
know hut it was in French, or else did not take notice
of it at that time.
As soon as this was over, he married them; ai d
after the marriage was over, he turned himself to Will
Atkins, and in a very affectionate manner exhorted
him not only to persevere in that good disposition In
was in, hut to support the convictions that were upon
him hy a resolution to reform his life; told him it was
in vain to say he repented if he did not forsake hit
crimes; represented to him, how God had honoured
him with heing the instrument of hringing his wife to
the knowledge of the Christiar religion ; and that he
should he careful he did not dishonour the grace of
God; and that if he did, he would see the heathen a
hetter christian than himself; the savage converted,
and the instrument cast away!
He said a great many good things to them hoth, and
then recommended them, in a few words, to God's
good Mess; gave them the henediction again, I repeat-
mg every thing to them in English: and thus ended
the ceremony. 1 think it was the most pleasant, agree-
ahle day to me that ever I passed in my whole life.
But my clergyman had not done yet; his thoughts
hung continually upon the conversion of the thirty-
seven savages, and fain he would have staid upon tne
island to have undertaken it; hut I convinced him,
first, that his undertaking was impracticahle in itself;
Bud secondly, that, perhaps I could put it into a way
©f heing done in his ahsence, to his satisfaction ; of
% hich hy and hy.
Having thus hrought the affair of the island to a
narrow compass, I was preparing togo on hoard the
ship, when the young man, whom I had taken out of
the famished ship's company, came to me, and told
ne, he understood I had a clergyman with me, and
i.r.i


that I had caused the Englishmen to he married to the
savages whom they called wives; thai he had a match
too, which he desired mipht he finished hefore I went,
hetween two Christians, which he hoped would not
he disagreeahle to me.
1 knew this must he the young woman who was his
mother's servant, for there was no other Christ an
woman on the island. So I hegan to persuade hiin
not to do any thing of that kind rashly, or hecause 1*
found himself in this solitary circumstance. I repre-
sented that he had some considerahle suhstance in the
world, and good friends, as 1 understood hy himself,
and hy his maid also; that the maid was not only
poor, and a servant, hut was unequal to him, she he-
mg twenty-six or twenty-seven years old, and he not
•hove seventeen or eighteen; that he might very pro-
hahly, with my assistance, make a remove from this
wilderness, and come into his own country again, and
that then it would he a thousand to one hut he would
,-epent his choice, and the dislike of that circumstance
•mght he disadvantageous to hoth. I was going to
fay more, hut he interrupted me smiling; and told
me, with a great deal of modesty, that I mistook in
my guesses; that he had nothing of that kind in his
thoughts, his present circumstances heing me'ancholy
and disconsotate enough; and he was very glad to
hear that I had some thoughts of putting them in a
way to see their own country again ; and that nothing
should have set him upon staying there, hut that tl a
voyage I was going was so exceeding long and haxard
ous, and would carry him quite out of the reach of all
his friends that he had nothing to desire of me, hut
that 1 would settle him in some little property of tho
island where he was; give him a servant or two, and
some few necessaries, and he would settle himself here
like a planter, waitmg the good time when, if ever I
returned to England, 1 would redeem him, and hoped
1 would not he unmindful of him when I came to
England; that he would give me some letters to his
friends in London, to ltt them know how good I had
heen [o him, and what pari of the world, and whtf
circumstances 1 had left him in. and he promised me,
that whenever I redeemed hun,the plantation, and ill
the improvements he hud made upon it, let the vatue
he what it would, should he wholly mine.
His discourse was very prettily delivered,consider-
ing his youth, and was the more agreeahle to me, he-
cause he told me positively the match was not for him-
self. 1 gave him all possihle assurances, that,if I lived
to come safe to England, I would deliver his letters,
and to do his husiness effectually,and that he might de-
pend I would never forget the circumstances 1 luA
dim in. But still I was impatient to know who was
the person to he married; upon which he told me it
was my Jack of all trades and his maid Susan.
I was most agreeahly surprised when he named the
match; for indeed I,had thought it very suitahle. The
character of that man 1 have given already ; and at
"or the maid, she was a very honest, modest, soher,
*nd religious young woman; had a very good shari
of sense; was agreeahle enough in her person ; spoks
very handsomely, and to the purpose; always vritll
decency and good manners, and not hackward to
speak when any thing required it, or impertinently
forward to speak when it was not her husiness; verr
handy and housewifely in any thing that was heforj
her . an excllent manager, and fit indeed to have heen
governess to the whole island , she knew very well
now to hehave herself to all kind of folks she had
ahout her, and to hetter if she had found any there. .
I The match hemg proposed in this manner, we mar-
ried them the same day : and as I was father at the
altar, as f may say, and gave her away, so I gave her
a portion, for I appointed her and her hushand a
handsome large space of ground for their plantation:
and indeed this match, and the proposal the young
gentleman made to me, to give him a small property
m the island, put me upon parcelling it out among
them, that they might not quarrel afterwards ahout
toeir situation.
This sharing out the land to Ihem I I•ft to Will
Atkins, who indeed was now grown a most soher,
grave, managing fellow, perfectly reformed, exceed-
mg pious and religious, and as far as 1 may he allow-
ed to speak positively in such a case, I verily helieve
was a true smcere penitent.
He divided things so justly, and so much to every
one's satisfaction, that they only desired one general
writing indermy hand for the whole, which 1 caused
to he drawn up, and signed and sealed to them, setting
out the hounds and situation of every man's planta-
tion, and testifying that I gave them therehy, severally,
a right to the whole possession and inheritance of the
respective plantations or farms, with their improve-
ments, to them and their heirs; reserving all the rest
of the island as my own property, and a certain rent
for every particular plantation after eleven years, if i
or any one from me, or in my name, came to demand
it, producing an attested copy of the same writing.
As to the government and laws among them, I told
them, I was not capahle of giving them hetter rules
than they were ahle to give themselves; only mada
them promise me to live in love and goo4 neighhour-
hood with one another: and so I prepared to leava
them.
One thing I must not omit, and that is, that heing
now settled in a kind of commonwealth among them-
selves, and having much husiness in hand, it was hut
odd to have seven-and-thirty Indians live in a nook of
the island, independent, and indeed unemployed ; for
excepting the providing themselves food, which they
had difficulty enough in doing sometimes, they had no
manner of husiness or property to manage : I proposed
therefore to the governor Spaniard, that he should go
to them with Friday's father, and propose to them to
remove, and either plant for themselves, or take them
Into their several families as servants, to he maintained
for their lahour, hut without heing ahsolute slaves, for
I would not admit them to make them slaves hy force
ty any means, hecause they had their liherty given hy
capitulation, and as it were articles of surrender,
which they ought not to hreak.
They most willingly emhraced the proposal, and
came all very cheerfully along with him, so we allotted
them land and plantations which three or four accept-
ed of, hut all the rest chose to he employed as servants
In the several families we had settled; and thus my
colony was in a manner settled as follows: The
Span iardg possessed my original hahitation, which was
the capital city, and extended their plantation all along
the side of the hrook which made the creek that I
have so often descrihed, as far as my hower; and as
they increased their culture, it went always eastward.
The Knglish lived in the north-east part, where Will
Atkins and his comrades hegan, and came on south-
ward and south-west, towards the hack part of the
aniards; and every plantation had a great addition
land to take in, if they found occasion, so that they
need not jostle one another for want of room.
All the west end of the island was left uninhahited,
that, if any of the savages should come on shore there,
only for their usual customary harharities, they might
come and go; if they disturhed nohody, nohody
would disturh them; and no douht hut they were
often ashore, and went away again, for I never heard
that the planters were ever attacked and disturhed
any more.
ft now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to
my friend the clergymen that the work of converting
the savages might perhaps he set on foot in his ah-
sence to his satisfaction ; and 1 told him, that now I
thought it was hut in a fair way, for the savages he-
ing thus divided among the Christians if they would
hut every one of them do their part with those which
came under their hands, I hoped it might have a very
good effect.
He agreed presently in that; "if," said he, " they
will do their part; hut how," says he, " shall we ob>
tam that of them ?" I told him we would call them all
together, and leave it in charge with them, or go to
153
them one hy one, which he thought hest; so we di
tided it—he to speak to the Spaniards, who were all
Papists, and I to the English, who were all Protes-
tants; and we recommended it earnestly to them, and
made them promise that they would never make any
distinction of Papist or Pretest ant in their exhorting
the savages to turn Christians, hut teach them theg,v
eral knowledge of the true God, and of their Saviour
Jesus Christ; and they likewise promised us that they
would never have any differences or disputes one
with another ahout religion.
When I came to Will Atkins's house, (I may call
it so, for such a house, or such a piece of hasket-work,
I helieve was not standing in the world again!) I
say, when I came thither 1 found the young woman
I have mentioned ahove, and William Atkins's wife,
were hecome intimates; and this prudent and religi-
ous young woman had perfected the work Will As'
kins had hegun; and though it was not ahove fout
days after what I have related, yet the new-haptised
savage woman was made such a Chrissian as I have
seldom heard of any like her, in all my ohservation
or conversation in the world.
It came next into my mind in the morning, he for?
I went to them, that among all the needful things 1
had to leave with them, I had not left a Bihle; in
which I shewed myself less considering for them than
my good friend the widow was for me, when she sent
me the cargo of 100/ from Lishon, where she packed
up three Bihles and a Prayer-hook. However, the
good woman's charity had a greater extent than ever
•he imagined, for thev were reserved for the comfort
and instruction of those that made much hetter use
ot them than I had done.
I took one of the Bihles in my pocket; and when
I came to William Atkins's tent, or house, I found
the young woman and Atkins's haptised wife had
heen discoursing of religion together (for William
Atkins told it me with a great deal of joy.) I asked
If they were together now? And he said yes; so 1
went into the house, and he with me, and we found
them together, very earnest in discourse: "O Sir,"
tays William Atkins, " when God has sinners to re-
concile to himself, and aliens to hringhome he never
wants a messenger: my wife has got a new instruc-
tor—I knew 1 was unworthy, as I was incapahle of
that work—that young woman has heen sent hither
from Heaven—sheisenough to convert a whole island
of savages." The young woman hlushed, and rose
up to go away, hut I desired her to sit still; I told
her she had a good work upon her hands, and I hoped
God would hless her in it.
We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had
any hook among them, though I did not ask, hut I
put my hand in my pocket, and pulled out my Bihle.
** Here," said I to Atkins, "1 have hrought vou an
issistant, that perhaps you had not hefore." The man
was so confounded, that he was n"t ahle to speak for
some time; hut recovering himself, he takes it with
hoth hands, and turning to his wife." Here mv dear,"
says he, did not I tell you our God. though he livet
ahove, could hear what we •aid? here is the honk I
Craved for when you and 1 kneeled down under the
ush ; now God has heard us and sont it." When ho
had said thus, the man fell in such transports of a pas-
sionate joy, that hetween the joy of having it, and
giving God thanks for it, the tears run down his face
like a child that was crying.
The woman was surprised, and was like to hare
run into a mistake that none of us were aware of; for
she firmly helieved God, had sent the hook upon her
hushand's petition : it is true that providentially it
was so, and might he taken so in a consequent senso;
hut I helieved it wotdd have heen no difficult matter
tit that time to have persuaded the poor woman to
have helieved that an express messenger came from
Heaven on purpose to hring that individual hook ; hut
it was too serious a matter to suffer any delusion to
take place: so I turned to the young woman, and
told her we did not desire to impose upon the new
Convert in her first and more ignorant understanding
of things, and hegged her to explain to her that God
may he very properly said to answer our petitions,
when in the course ol ois providence such things are
I- a particular mannei Drought to pass as we petition-
ed for: hut we do not expect returns from Heaven in
• miraculous and particular manner; and that it it
Crnr mercy it is not so.
This the young woman did afterwards effectually;
so that there was I assure you, no priestcraft used
nere; and I should have thought it one of the most
unjustifiahle daudsm the world to have had it so; hut
the surprise of joy upon Will Atkins is really not tti
he expressed ; and there we may he sure was no de-
lusion. Sure no man was ever more thankful in trm
world for any thing of its kind than he was for this
Bihle; and I helieve never any man was glad of a
Sihle from a hetter principle; and though he had heen
« most profligate creature, desperate, headstrong, ou»,
ageous, furious, and wicked to a great degree, yet
his man is a standing rule to us all for the well in-
structing children, viz. that parents should never givsi
wer to teach and instruct, or ever dispair of the soo-
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
ohstinate, refractory, or to appearance insensihle of
instruction; for if ever God in his providence touches
the consciences of such, the force of their education
returns upon them, and the early instruction of parents
is not lost, though it may have heen many years laid
asleep, hut some time or other they may find the
henefit of it
.
Thus it was with this poor man. However igno-
rant he was, or divested of religion and Christian
knowledge, he found ne had some to do with now
more ignorant than himself; and that the least pari
of the instruction of his good father that could now
come to his mind was of use to him.
Among the rest it occurred to him, he said, how
bis father used to insist much upon the inexpressihV
value of the Bihle, the privilege and Messing of it to
nations, faunilics, and persons, hut he never entertain-
ed the least notion of the worth of it till now, when
neing to talk to heathens, savages, and harharians, ha
wanted the helpnf the written oracle forhisassistance.
The young woman was very glad of it also for the
present occasion, though she had one, and so had the
youth, on hoard our ship among the goods which
were not vet hrought on shore. And now, having said
so many things of this young woman, I cannot omi
telling one story more of her and myself, which has
aoineting in it very informing and remarkahle.
1 have related to what extremity the poor young
woman was reduced; how her mistress was starved
to death, and did die on hoard that unhappy ship we
met at sea: and how the whole ship's company heing
reduced to the last extremity, the gentlewoman and
her son, and this maid, were first hardly used as to
provisions, and at last totally neglected and starved;
that is to say hrought to the last extremity of hunger.
One day heing discoursing with her upon the ex-
tremeties they suffered, I asked her if she could de-
scrihe hy what she felt what it was to starve, and ho*
it appeared ? She told me she helieved she could, and
she told her tale very distincly thus:
» First, Sir," said she, " we had for some days
fared exceeding hard, end suffered very great hunger,
hut now at last we were wholly without food of any
kind except sugar, and a little wine, and a little water-
The first day after 1 had received no food at all, I
found myself towards evening, first empty and sickish
at my stomach, and nearer night mightily inclined to
yawning, and sleepy; I lay down on a couch in the
great cahin to sleep, and slept ahout three hours, and
awaked a little refreshed, having taken a glass of wine
when I lay down. After heing ahout three hours
awake, it heing ahout five o'clock in the moming, I
found myself empty, and my stomach sickish again,
and lay down again, hut could not sleep at all, heing
«ery faint and ill; and thus I continued asl the second
day with a strange variety—first hungry, then sick
again, with retchings to vomit. The second night,
heing ohliged to go to hed again without any food
more than a draught of fair water, and heing asleep,
I dreamed I was at Barhadoes, and that the market
was mightily stocked with provisions, that I hought
some for my mistress, and went and dined very hear-
tily.
"I thought my stomach was full after this, as it
would have heen after or at a good dinner; hut when
1 waked, I was exceedingly sunk in my spirits to find
myself in the extremity of famine; the last glass of
wine we had I drank, and put sugar into it, hecause
of its having some spirit to supply nourishment; hut
there heing no suhstance in the stomach for the di-
gesting office to work upon, I found the only effect of
the wine was to raise disagreeahle fumes from the
stomach into the head : and I lay as they told me,
stupid and senseless as one drunk for some tii.ie.
"The third day in the morning, after a night of
strange and confused inconsistent dreams, and rather
dozing than sleeping, I awaked ravenous and furious
with hunger ; and I question, had not my understand-
ing returned and conquered it, I say, I question whe-
ther, if I had heen a mother, and had had a little
child with me, its life would have heen safe or no.
"This lasted ahout three hours, during which tint•
1 was twice raging mad as any creature in Bedlam
as my young master told me, and as he can now iu
form you.
u In one of these fits of lunacy or distraction, whe-
ther hy the motion of the ship or some slip of my foot
I know not, I fell down, and struck my face against
the corner of a pallet-hed in which my mistress lay,
and with the hlow the hlood gushed out of my nose,
and the cahin-hoy hringing me a little hasin, I sat
down and hled into it a great deal, and as the hlood
ran from me I came to myself, and the violence of
the flame or the fevr I was in ahated, and so did the
ravenous part of tno hunger
31
L.FE AND ADVENTURES
"Then I grew sick, and retcned to vomit, dm|
could not, for I had nothing in my stomach to hring
up. After I had hled some time I swooned, and they
all helieved I was dead; hut I came to myself sooa
after, and then had a most dreadful pain in my, sto-
mach, not to he descrihed, not like the cholic, hut ft
gnawing eager pain for food, and towards night it
went on with a kind of earnest craving or longing
for food, something like, as 1 suppose the longing of
a woman with child. 1 took another draught of water
with sugar in it, hut my stomach loathed the sugar,
and hrought it all up again ; then 1 took a draught of
water without sugar, and that stayed with me, and I
laid me down upon the hed, praying most heartily
that it would please God to take me away; and com-
posing my mind in hopes of it, I slumhered awile;
and then waking, thought myself dying, heing light
with vapours from an empty stomach: frer.ommenaV
ed my soul to God, and earnestly wished that some-
hody would throw me into the sea.
"All this while my mistress lay hy me just, as 1
thought, expiring, hut hore it with much more patv
ence than I, and gave the last hit of hread she had to
herchild, my young master, who would not have taken
it, hut she ohliged him to eat it and I helieve it saved
his life.
"Towards the morning I slept again, and first
when I awaked I fell into a violent passion of cry-
ing, and after that had a second fit of violent hunger,
so that I got up ravenous, and in a most dreadful
condition. Had my mistress heen dead, so much as 1
loved her, I am certain I should have eaten a piece
of her flesh with as much relish and as unconcerned
•s ever 1 did the flesh of any creature appointed foi
iiod and once or twice I was going to hite my own
arm. At last I saw the hasin in which was the hlood
I had hled at my nose the day hefore; I ran to it,
and swallowed it with such haste, and such a greedy
appetite, as if I had wondered nohody had taken ft
hefore, and afraid it should he taken from me now.
"Though after it was down the thoughts of it filled
me with horror, yet it checked the fit of hunger, and
I drank a draught of fair water, and was composed
and refreshed for some hours after it . This was the
fourth day ; and thus 1 held it till towards night, when,
within the compass of three hours, I had all these se-
veral circumstances over again, one after another,
V:z- sick, sleepy, eagerly hungry, pain in the stomach,
then ravenous again, then sick again, then lunatio,
then crying, then ravenous again, and so every quarter
of an hour; and my strength wasted exceedingly. At
night 1 laid me down, having no comfort hut m the
hope that I should die hefore morning.
All this night I had no sleep, hut the hunger was
now turned into a disease, and I had a terrihle colie
and griping, wind instead of food having fooit.i its
way into my howels; and in this condition I lay till
morning, when I was surprised a little with the cries
and lamentations of my young master who called out
to me that his mother was dead. I lifted myself up
a little for 1 had not strength to rise, hut found she
was not dead, though she was ahle to give very l:ttle
signs of life.
"1 had then such convulsions in my stomach for
want of some sustenance, that I cannot doscrihe them,
with such frequent throes and pangs of appetite that
nothing hut the tortutes of death can imitate; and this
condition I was in when I heard the seamen ahov*
cry out' A sail! a sail !' and halloo and jump ahout
as if they were distracted.
'' I was not ahle to get off from the hed, and my
mistress much less, and my master was so sick that I
thought he had heen expiring; so we could not open
the cahin-door, or get any account what it was that
occasioned such a comhustion; nor had we any cotv
vesration with the ship's company for two t.ays, they
having told us they had not a mouthful of any thing
to eat in the ship; and they told us afterwards they
thought we had heen dead.
"u was this dreadful condition we wer» in when
ICO
LIFE AND ADVLNTURES
you were sent to save our lives; and how you found
us, Sir, you know as well as I, and hetter too."
This was her own relation, and is such a distinct
Account of starving to death as I confess 1 never met
with, and was exceeding entertaining to me, I am
the rather apt to helieve it to he a true account, he-
cause the youth gave me an account of a good part of
it, though I must own not so distinct and so feelingly
•s his maid, and the rather hecause it seems his mo-
ther fed him at the price of her own life: hut the poor
maid, though her constitution heing stronger than that
of her mistress, who was in years, and a weakly wo-
man too, she might struggle harder with it; I say,
the poor maid might he supposed to feel the extre-
mity something sooner than her mistress, who might
he allowed to keep the last hits something longer than
she parted with any to relieve the maid. No ques-
tion, as the case is here related, if our ship, or some
other, had nnt so providentially met them, a few days
more would have ended all their lives, unlesf they had
prevented it hy eating one another; and even that, at
their case stood, would have served them hut a little
while, they heing five hundred leagues from any land,
or any possihility of relief, other than in the miracu-
lous manner it happened.—But this is hy the way ; I
return to my disposition of things among the people.
And first, it is to he ohserved here, that for many
reasons I did not think fit to let them know any thing
of the sloop I had framed, and which I thought of
setting up among them; for I found, at least at my
first commg, such seeds of division among them, chat
I saw it plainly, had I set up the sloop, and left it
among them they would upon very slight disgust, have
separated, and gone away from one another; or per-
haps have turned pirates, and so made the island a
den of thieves, instead of a plantation of soher and
religious people, as I intended it to he; nor did I leave
the two pieces of hrass cannon, that I had or hoard,
or the two quarter-deck guns, that mv nephew took
•xtraordinary, for the same reason : 1 thought ihey
nad enough to qualify them for a defensive war, against
any thai should invade thein; hut 1 was not to ses
them up for an offensive war, or to encourage them
to go ahroad to attack others, which, in the end, would
only hring ruin and destruction upon themselves and
all their undertakings: I reserved the sloop, there-
fore, and the guns, for their seivice another w*y, as I
shall ohserve in its place.
I have now done with the island ; I left them all in
good circumstances, and in a flourishing condition,
and went on hoard my ship again the fifth day of
May, having heen five-and-twenty days among them;
and, as they were all resolved to stay upon the island
till I came to remove them, I promised to send some
further relief from the Brasils, if I could possihly find
an opportunity ; and particularly I promised to send
them some catttle ; such as sheep, hogs, and cows; for
as to the two cows and calves which I hrought from
England, we had heen ohliged, hy the length of our
voyage, to kill them at sea, for want of hay to feed
them.
The next day giving them a salute of five guns at
rting, we set sail, and arrived at the hay of All
ints, in the Brasils, in ahouttwenty-two'days; meet-
ing nothing remarkahle in our passage hut this, that
ahout three days after we sailed, heing hecalmed, and
the current setting strong to the N. N. E. running,
as it were, into a ^ay or gulf on the land side, we
were driven something out of our course ; and once
or twice our men cried I .and, to the westward; hut
whether it was the continent, or islands, we could
oot tell hy any means.
But the third day, towards evening, the sea smooth
and the weather calm, we saw the sea as it were, co-
vered towards the land, with something very hlack,
not heing ahle to discover what it was; hut, after
some time, our chief mate going up the main shrouds
a little way and looking at them with a perspective,
cried out ii was an army. I cou d not imagine what
he meari hv an army, and spoke s little hastily, caU-
ing the fellow a fool, or some such word: "Nay,
Str." saye he, "don't he angry, for it is an army,
and a fleet too; for I helieve there are a thousand
canoes, and you may see them paddle along, and
they are coming towards us two apace, and full
of men."
I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so
was my nephew the captain; for he had heard
such terrihle stories of them in the island, and
having never heen in those seas hefore, that he
could not tell what to think of it, hut said two or
three times, we should ail he devoured. I must
confess, considering we were hecalmed, and the
current set strong toward the shore, I liked it the
worse; however, I hade him not he afraid, hut
hring the ship to an anchor, as soon as we came
eo near as to know that we must engage them.
The weather continued calm, and they came on
apace towards us; so I gave orders to come to an
anchor and furl all our sails. As for the savages,
I told them they had nothing to fear from them
hut fire: and therefore they should get their hoats
out, and fasten them, one close hy the head, and
the other hy the stern, and man them hoth well
and wait the issue in that posture; this I did, that
the men in the hoats might he ready, with sheet
end huckets, to put out any fire these savages
might endeavour to fix upon the outside of the ship.
In this posture we lay hy for thorn, and in a littte white
they came up with us; hut never was such a horrid Right
seen hy Christians: my mate was much mistaken in his
calcutation of their numher, I mean of a thousand ca-
noes: the most we coutd make of them when they came
up, heing ahout 126; and a great many of them too; for
some of them had sixteen or serenteen men in them,
some more, and the teast six or seren.
When they came nearer to us, they seemed so he
struck with wonder and astonishment, as at a sight
which they had douhtless nerer seen hefore; nor
could they, at first, as we afterwards understood, know
what to make of u«. They cams holdly up, however,
^G3
rtry near to us, and seemed to go ahout to raw round
us; hut we called to our men in the hoats, not to lei
them come too near tehm.
This very order hrought us to an engagement with
them, without our designing it; for five or six of theii
large canoes came so near our long-hoat, that oui
men heckoned with their hands to them to keep hack;
which they understood very wel1, and went hack ; hut
at their retreat ahout 500 arrows came on hoard us
from those hoats; and one of our men in the long-
hoat was very much wound, d.
However, I called to them tibi to fire hy any means;
hut we handed down some deal hoards into the hoat,
and the carpenter presently set up a kind of a fence,
like waist hoard to cover them from the a/rows of
the savages, if they should shoot again.
Ahout half an hour afterwards they came all up in
a hody astern of us, and pretty near, so near that we
could easily discern what they were, though we could
not tell their design. I easily found they were some
of my old friends, the same sort of savages that I
bad heen used to engage with ; and in a little time
more they rowed somewhat farther out to sea, till they
came directly hroadside with us, and then rowed
down straight upon us, till they came* so near, that
they could hear us speak. Upon this I ordered all
my men to keep close, lest they should shoot any more
arrows, and make all our guns ready; hut heing so
near as tphe within hearing, I made Friday go out
upon the deck, and call aloud to them in his lan-
guage, to know what they meant; which accordingly
ne did : whether they understood him or not, that I
know not; hut as soon as he had called to them, six
of them, who were in the foremost, or nighest hoat
to us, turned their canoes from us; and, stooping
down shewed us their naked hacksides; just as it,
in English (saving your presence), the had hid im
kiss . Whether this was a defiance or chal-
lenge, we knew not; or whether it was done in men
•o* tempt, or a signal in *he rest hut immediately
Friday cried out, they were going to shoot; and un
happily for him (poor fellowT) they let fly ahout three
hundred of their arrows; and, to my inexpressihle
grief, killed poor Friday, no other man heing in their,
sight. The poor fellow was shot with no less than
three arrows, and ahout three more fell very nigh
him; such unlucky marksmen they were!
I was so eoraged with the loss of my old servant,
the companion of all my sorrows and solitudes, that
1 immediately ordered five guns to he loaded with
small shot, and four with pre at; and gave them such a
hroadside as they had never had in their lives hefore,
to he sure.
They were not ahove half a cahle's length off when
we fired and our gunners took their aim so well, thai
three or four of their canoes were overset, as we had
reason to helieve, hy one shot only.
The ill manners of turning up their hare hacksides
to us, gave us no great offence ; neither did I know
for certain whether that, which would pass for the
greatest contempt among us, might he understood so
hy them or not ; therefore in return, I had only re-
solved to have fired four or five guns with powdei
only, which I knew would fright them sufficiently;
hut when they-shotat us directly with all ,.he fury they
were capahle of, and especially as they had killed my
poor Friday, whom I so entirely loved ai d valued,
and who, indeed, so well deserved it; I not only had
heen justified hefore God and man, hut would nave
heen very glad, if I could to have overset every canoe
there and drowned every one of them.
lean neither tell how many we killed or how many
we wounded at this hroadside; hut sure such a frigbt
and hurry never was seen among such a multitude \
there was thiiteen or fourteen of their canoes split
and overset, in all ; and the men all seta-swimming,
the rest, frighted out of their wits, scoured away as
fast as they could, taking hut little care to save those
whose hoats were split or spoiled with our shot; so 1
sunnose thai they were minv of them lost ; and out
men took up one poor fellow swimming for his life,
ahove an hour after they were all gone.
Our small shot from our cannon must needs kill and!
wound a great many; hut, in short, we never knew
any thing how it went with them; for they fled so fast,
that, in three hours, nr thereahouts, we could not see
ahove three or four straggling canoes: nor did we ever
see the rest any more; for a hreeze of wind springing
up the same evening, we weighed and set sail for the
Brasils.
We had a prisoner mdeed, hut the creature was so
sullen, that he would neither est nor speak ; and we
all fancied he would starve himself to death; hut I
took a way to cure him; for I made them take hinu
and turn him into the long-hoat, and make him helieve
they would toss him into the sea again, and so leave
him where they found him, if he would not speak;
nor would that do, hut they really did throw him into
the sea, and came away from him ; and then he fol-
lowed them, for he swam like a cork, and called to
them in his tongue, though they knew not one word of
what he said. However, at last, they took him in
again and then he hegan to he more tractahle; nor
tlid I ever design they should drown him.
We were now under sail again ; hut I was the most
disconsolate creature alive, for want of my man Fri-
day, and would have heen very glad to have gone
hack to the island, to have taken one the rest from
thence for my occasion, hut it could not he; so we
went on. We had one prisoner, as I have said; and
h was along while hefore I could make him under-
stand any thing; hut in time, our men taught him
some English, and he hegan to he a little tractahle (
afterwards we inquired what country he came from,
hut could make nothing of what he said; for his
speech was so odd, all gutterals, and spoken in the
throat, m such a hollow and odd manner, that we
could never form a word from him; and we were all
of opimon that they might speak that language as well
if they were gagged, as otherwise; ncr could we per
If*
LrFE AND ADVENTURES
eeive that they had any occasion either for teeth,
tongue, lips, or palate; hut formed their words just as
a hunting horn forms a tune, with an open throat; he
told us, however, sometime after, when we had taught
him to speak a little English, that they were going,
with their kings, to fight a great hattle. When he said
kings, we asked him, how many kings? He said
there were five nation (we could not make him under
stand the plural *,) and that they all joined to go
against two nation. We asked him, What made them
come up tous? He said, "To, makee te great wonder
look."—Where it is to he ohserved, that all those na-
tives, as also those of Africa, when they learn English,
they always add two e's at the end of the words where
we use one, and place the accent upon the last of
them : as makee, Uucee, and the like , and we could
not hreak them of it; nay, I could hardly make Fri-
day leave it off, though at last he did.
And now I name the poor fellow, once more, I must
take my last leave of him; poor honest Friday! We
huried him with all decency and solemnity possihle
hy putting him into a coffin, and throwing him into
the sea; and I caused them to fire eleven guns for him:
and so ended the life of the most grateful faithful,
honest, and most affectionate servant that ever man
had.
and, in ahout twelve days time, we made land in the
latitude of five degrees south of the tine, heing the
north-easternmost land of all that part of America.
We kept on S. hy E. in sight of the shore four days,
when we made the cape St. Augustine, and in threo
days came to an anchor off the hay of All Saints, tha
•Id place of my deliverance, from whence came hoth
Never did a ship come to this part that had less hu-
siness than I had; and yet it was with great dificuUy
that we were admitte to hold the least correspond-
ence on shore. Not my partner himself, who was
alive and made a great figure among them, not my
We

ith a fair wind for Brasil,

two merchant trustees, nor the fame of my wonderful
preservation in the island, could ohtain me that favour1
hut my partner rememhering that 1 had given five
hundred moidores to the prior of the monastery of the
A ugustines, and three hundred and seventy-two to the
poor, went to the monastery, and ohliged the prior
that then was, to go to the governor, and heg leave fm
me presently, with the captain, and one more, hesides
eight seamen, to come on shore, and no more; and
this upon condition ahsolutely capitulated for, that wei
should not offer to land any goons out of the ship, or
to carry nny person away without license.
They were so strict with us as to landing any goods,
that it was with extreme difficulty that I got on shore
three hales of English goods, such a 3 fine hroad-cloths,
•tuffs and some limn, which I had hrought for a pre
sent to my partner.
He was a very gcnerous,hroad-hearted man, though
(like me) he came from little at first; and though he
knew not that I had the least design of giving him any
thing, he sent we on hoar 1 a present of fresh provi-
sions, wine, and sweetmeats, worth ahove thirty moi-
dores, including some tohacco, and three or four fine
medals in gold. But I was even with him in my pre-
sent, which as I have said, consisted of fine hroad-
cloth, English stuffs, lace, and fine hollands. Also, I
delivered him ahout the value of 1007. sterling, in the
same goods, for other uses: and I ohliged him to set
ap the sloop which I had hrought with me from Eng-
land, as I have said, for the use of my colony, in
order to send the refreshments I intended to my plan-
tation.
Accordingly he got hands, and finished the sloop in
a very few days, for she was already framed ; and I
have the master of her such instruction as he could
not miss the place ; nor did he miss it, as 1 had an
account from my partner afterwards. I got him soon
loaded with the small cargo I had sent them; and one
of our seamen, that had heen on shore with me there,
offered to go with the sloop, and settle there, upon my
letter to the governor Spaniard, to allot him a tufficW
ent quantity ofland for a plantation ; and giving hiro
come clothes, and tools for his planting work, which
he said he understood, having heen an old planter ha
Maryland, and a huccanncer into the hargain.
I encouarged the fellow hy granting all he desired;
and, as an addition, I gave him the savage which we
had taken prisoner of war, to he his slave, and order-
ed the governor Spaniard to give hun his share of
every thing he wanted, with the rest.
VVhen we came to fit this man out, my old partner
told me, there was a certain very honest fellow, a
Brasil planter of his acquaintance, who had fallen into
the displeasure of the church: "1 know not what the
matter is with hun," says he, "hut on my consci-
ence, I think he is a heretic in his heart; and he has
heen ohliged to conceal himself for fear of the Inqui-
sition that he would he very glad of such an oppor-
tunity to make his escape, with his wife and two
daughters; and if I would let them go to the Island,
and allot them a plantation, he would give them a
small stock to hegin with; for the officers of the I re-
quisition had seized at his effects mid estate, and he
had nothing left hut a little household stun-, and two
slaves; " And," adds he "though I hate his princi-
ples, yet I would not have him fall into their hands,
for he will assuredly he hurnt alive if he does."
I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman
with them; and we concealed the man, and his wife
and daughters, on hoard our ship, till the sloop put
out to go to sea; and then (having put all their goods
on hoard the sloop some time hefore) we put them on
hoard the sloop, after she was got out of the hay.
Our seamen was mightily pleased with this new
partner; and their stock, indeed, was much.alike,rich
in tools, and in preparations, for a farm ; hut nothing
to hegin with, hut as ahove. However, they carried
over with them (which was worth all the rest) some
materials for planting sugar-canes, with some plants of
16S
sanes; which he (1 ti.can the i ortugal man) under.
Stood very well.
Among the rest of the supplies sent my tenants la
the island, I sent them hy this sloop, three milch cows
and five calves, ahout twenty-two hogs, among them,
three sows higwith pig, two mares, and a stone-horse.
For my Spaniards, according to my promise, I en-
gaged three Portugal women to go; and recommended
it to them to marry them, and use them kindly. 1
could tave procured more women, hut I rememhered
that the poor persecuted man had two daughters, and
there were hut five of the Spaniards that wanted ; the
rest had wives of their own, though in another country.
All this cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily
suppose, very welcome to my old inhahitants, who
were now (with this addition) hetween sixty and se-
venty people, hesides little children; of which there
were a great many; 1 found letters at London from
them all, hy way of Lishon, when I came hack to
England, heing sent hack to the Brasils hy this sloop;
of which I shall take some notice in its place.
I have now done with my island, and all manner
of discourse ahout it; and whoever reads the rest of
my memorandums, would do well to turn his thoughts
entirely from it, and expect to read only oi tne folies
of an old man, not warned hy his own harms, much
less hy those of other men to heware of the like, not
cooled hy almost forty years misery and disappoint-
ments ; not satisfied with prosperity heyond expecta-
tion; not made cautious hy affliction and distress he*
yond imitation
1 had no more husiness to go to the East Indies,
than a man at full liherty, and having committed no
crime, has to go to the turnkey at Newgate, and desire
him to lock him up amoug the prisoners there, and
starve him. Had I taken a small vessel from England,
and gone directly to the island : had I loaded her, as 1
did tne other vessel, with all the necessaries for th«

v, i n
plantation, and for my people; took a patent frot the
government here, to have secured my proper y, ic
suhjection only to that of England, which, to he sure,
I might have ohtained ; had I carried over cannon and
ammunition, servants, and people to plant, and, tab'
ing possession of the place, forttfied and strengthened
it :n the nam* of England, and increased it with peo
pie, as I might easily have done; had I then settled
myaelf there, and sent the ship hack, loaded with good
rice, as I might also have done in six months tunet
and ordered my friends to have fitted her out again
for our supply; had I done this, and staid there my*
self, I had, at least, acted like a man of common
sense; hut I was possessed with a wandering spirit,
scorned all advantages' pleased myself with heing the
patron of these people I had placed there, and doing
for them in a kind of haughty majestic way, like an
old patriarchal monarch; providing for them, as if 1
had heen father of the whole family, as well as of lhs
plantation: hut {, never so much as pretended to plant
in the name of any government or nation, or to ac-
knowledge any prince, or to call my people suhjects
to any one nation more than another; nay, I never so
much as gave the place a name ; hut left it as I found
It, belonging to no man; and the people under no dia-
c;pline or government hut my own; who, though I
had an influence over them as father and henefactor
had no authority or power to act or command ona
way or other, farther than voluntary consent moved
them to comply: yet even this, had I staid theres
would have none well enough; hut as I ramhled from
them, and came thither no more, the last letters I had
from any of them, were hy my partner's means, who
tfteiwards sent another sloop to the place; and who
sent me word, though I had not the letter till five years
afier it was written, that they went on hut poorly,
tv^re malecontentwith their long stay there; thaiWil
Atkins was dead; that five of the Spaniards wen>
come away; and that though they had not heen much
molested hy the savages, yet they had had some skip'
nishes with thein; that they hegged of him to writs
to me to think of the promise I had made to fete*
them away, that they might see their own country
again hefore they died.
But I was gone a wild-goose chase indeed, and they
who will have any more of me, must he content to
follow me through anew variety of follies, hardship*,
and wild adventures; wherein the justice of Provi-
dence may he duly ohserved, and we may see how
easily Heaven can gorge us with our own desires,
make the strongest of our wishes to he our affliction,
and punish us most severely with those very things
which we think it would he our utmost happiness to
tre allowed in.
Let no wise man flatter himself with the strength of
his own judgment, as if he was ahle to choose any
particular station of life for himself. Man is a short-
sighted creature, sees hut a very little way hefore him;
and as his passions are none of his hest friends, so his
particularaffections are generally his worst counsellors
I say this with respect to the impetuous desire I had
from a youth to wander into the world, and how evi-
dent it now was that this principle was preserved in
me for my punishment. How it came on, the man-
ner, the circumstance, and the conclusion of it, it is
easy to give you historically, and with its utmost
variety of particulars But the secret ends of Divine
Providence, in thus permitting us to he hurried down
the stream of our own desires, are only to he under-
stood of those who can listen to the voice of Provi
dence, and draw religious consequences from God's
Justice and their own mistakes.
Be it had I husiness or no husiness, away I went
It is no time now to enlarge any farther upon the rea-
son or ahsurdity of my own conduct; hut to come to
the history—I was emharked for the voyage, and tho
voyage I went.
I shall only add here, that my honest and truly pious
clergyman left me here; a ship heing ready to go to
Lishon, he asked me leave to go thither; heing stU)
H he ohserved, hound nerer to finish any voyage he
hegan. How happy had it heen for ine if I had gone
with him?
But it was too late now . all things Heaven appoints
are hest. Had I gone wtth him, 1 had never had so
many things to he thankful for, and you had never
heard of the Second Part of the Travels and Adven-
ures of Rohinson Crusoe; so I must leave here the
fruitless exclaiming at myself, and go on with ny
From the Brasils we made directly away over the
Atlantic sea to the Cape dc Bonne Esperance, or, as
we call it, the Cape of Gooi Hope; and had a toler-
ahle good voyage, our coast generally south-east;
now and then a storm, and some contrary winds. But
my disasters at sea were at an end; my future ruhs
and cross events were to hefal me on shore; that it
might appear the land was as well prepared to he our
scourge as the sea, when Heaven who directs the cir-
cumstances of things, pleases to appoint it to he so.
Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a super-
cargo on hoard, who was to direct all her motions
after she arrived at the Cape; only heing limited to a
certain numher of days for stay, hy charter-party, at
the several ports he was to go to. This was none of
my husiness, neither did 1 meddle with it at all; my
those things hetween them as they thought fit
.
We made no stay at the Cape longer than was need-
ful to take in fresh water, hut made the hest of nut
way for the coast of Coromandel; we were indeed
Informed that a French man of war of fifty guns and
two large merchant-ships were gone for the Indies;
•ml as I knew we were at war with France, 1 had
some apprehensions of them; hut they went their own
way, and we heard no mote of them.
I shall not pester my account, or the reader, with
descriptions of places, journals of our voyages, varia-
sions of the compass, latitudes, meridian distances,
trade-winds, situation of ports, and the like; such as

nephew the captain, and the

adjusting

almost all the histories of long navigation are full of
and which make the reading tiresome enough, and are
perfectly unprofitahle to all that read, except only to
those who are to go to those places themselves.
It is enough to name the ports and places which we
touched at, and what occurred to us upon our pass-
ing from one to another. We touched first at the
island of Madagascar, where, though the people are
fierce and treacherous, and, in particular, very well
armed with lances and hows, which they use with
inconceivahle dexterity, yet we fared very well witn
them awhile; they treated us very civilly; and foj
some trifles which we gave them, such as knives, scis'
sars, &c. they hrought us eleven good fat hullocks,
middling in size, hut very good in flesh, which we
took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present
spending, and the rest to salt for the ship's use.
We were ohliged to stay here for some time after
we had furnished ourselves with provisions i and I
that was always too curious to look into every nook
of the world wherever I came, was for going on shore
as often as I could. It was on the east side of the
island that we went on shore one evening, and the
people, who hy the way are very numerous, came
thronging ahout us, and stood gazing at us at a dis-
tance; as we had traded freely with them, and ha a
heen kindly used, we thought ourselves in no danger (
hut when we saw the people we cut three houghs ou
of a tree, and stuck them up at a distance from us.
which, it seems, is a mark in the country not only of
jucc and friendship, hut when it is accepted, the other
side set up three poles or houghs also, which is a sig-
at that they accept the truce too; hut then this is a
nown condition of the truce, that you arc not to pass
heyond their three poles towards them' nor they come
past your three poles or houghs towards you ; so that
you are perfectly secure within the three poles, and
all the space hetween your poles and theirs ts allowed
like a market for free converse, traffic, and commerce.
When you go thither you must not carry your weapons
3a
with you; and if they come into that space they stick
np their javelins ard lances all at the first poles, and
come on unarmed; hut if any violence is offered
them and the truce therehy hroken, away they run
to the poles and lay hold of their weapons, and the*
the truce is at an end.
It happened one evening when we went on shore,
that a greater numher of their people comedown than
usual, hut all was very friendly and civil. They
hrought with them several kinds of provisions, fof
which we satisfied them with such toys as we had )
their women also hrought us milk and roots, and se-
veral things very acceptahle to us, and all was quiet;
and we made us a little tent or hut, of some houghs
of trees, which lay on shore all that night.
I know not what was the occasion, hut I was nos
so well satisfied to lie on shore as the rest; and the
hoat lying at an anchor ahout a stone's cast from the
land, with two men in her to take care of her I made
otie of them come on shore, and getting some houghs
of trees to cover us also in the hoat, I spread the sail
en the hottom of the hoat and lay on hoard, under
the cover of the hranches of the trees, all mght.
Ahout two o'clock in the morning we heard one oj
our men make a terrihle noise on the shore, calling
out for God's sake to hring the hoat in, and come and
help them, for they were all like to he murdered \
at the same time 1 heard the firing of five muskets,
which was the numher of the guns they had and thai
three times over; for, it seems, the natives here were
not so easily frighted with guns as the savages we*
in America, where 1 had to do with them.
All this while I knew not what was the matter*
hut rousing immediately from sleep with the noise, I
caused the hoat to he thrust in, and resolved, witn
three fusils we had on hoard, to land and assist out
men.
We got the hoat soon to the shore; hut our men
were in too much haste; for heing come to the shorn,
ihey plunged ioto the vater to get to the hoat with all
tie expedition they could, heing pursued hy hetween
three and four hundred men. Our men were hut nine
m all, and only five of them had fusils with them;
the rest, indeed, had pistols and swords, hut they
were of small use to ihem.
We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty
enough too, three of hem heing very ill wounded;
and that which was still worse was, that while wa
stood in the hoat to take our men in, we were in ai
much dangerasthey were in on shore; for they poured
their arrows in upon us so thick, that we were fain
to harricade the side uf the hoat up with the henchet
and two or three loose hoards, which to our great sa-
tisfaction we had hy mere accident, or providence
rather, in the hoat.
And yet had it heen daylight, they are, it seems,
such exact marksmen, that if they could have seen
hut the least part of any of us, they would have heen
sure of us. We had, hv the light of the moon, a little
sight of them as they stood pelting us from the shore
with dnrts and arrows, and having got ready our fire-
arms we gave them a volley, and we could hear hy
the cries of some of them, that we had wounded se-
veral; however, they stood thus in hattle array on tha
shore till hreak of day, which we suppose was that
they might see the hetter to take their aim at us.
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how
to weigh our anchor, or set up our sail, hecause wa
must needs stand up in the hoat, and they were as
sure to hit us as we were to hit a hird in a tree with
small shot. We made signals of distress to the ship,
which though she rode a league off, yet my nephew,
the captain, hearing our firing, nnd hy glasses perceiv-
mg the posture we lay in, and that we fired towards
the shore, pretty well understood us; and weighing
anchor with all speed, he stood as near the shore as
he durst with the ship, and then sent another hoat with
ten hands in her to assist us; hut we called to them
not to come too near, telling them what condition we
were in; however, they stood in nearei to us; and
one of the men taking the end of a tow-line in his
hand, and keeping our hoat hetween him and the
enemy, so that they could not perfectly jee him, swain
on hoard us, and made the line fast to the hoat, upon
which we slipt our little cahle, and leaving our anchor
hehind, they towed us out of the reach of the arrows,
we all the whtle lying close hehind the harricade we
had made.
As soon as we were got from hetween the ship and
the shore, thai she could lay her side to the shore,
we ran along just hy them, and we poured in a hroad-
side among them, loaded with pieces of iron and lead,
small hullets, and such stuff, hesides the great shot,
which made a terrihle havoc among them.
When we were got on hoard and out of danger, we
had time to examine into the occasion of this fray;
and indeed our supercargo who had heen often in
those parts, put me upon it; for he said he was sure
the inhahitants would not have touched us after we
had made a truce, if we had not done something to
provoke them to it . At length it came out, vir. thai
an old woman, who had come to sell us some milk,
had hrought it within our poles, with a young womah
with her, who also hrought some roots and herhs; and
while the old woman (win ther she was mother tn
the young woman or no they could not tell) was sell.
ing us the milk, one of our men offered some rude-
ness to the wench that was with her, at which the old
woman made a great noise. However, the seaman
would not quit his prize, hut carried her out of the
old woman's sight among the trees, it heing almost
dark. The old woman went away without her, and,
as we suppose, made an outcry among the people she
same from ; who, upon notice, raised this great army
upon us in three or four hours; and it was great odds
hut we had heen all destroyed.
One of our men was killed with a lance that waj
thrown at him, just at the heginning of the attack, as
he sallied out ol the tent we had made; the rest came
off free, all but the fellow who was the occasion ol
s11 the mischief, who paid dear enough for his hlack
mistress, for we could not hear what hecame of him
a great while. We lay upon th« chore two days after,
though the wind presented, and made signals for him;
made our hoat sail up shore and down shore several
leagues, hut in vain; so we were ohliged to give him
over; and if he alone had suffered for it, the loss had
heen the less.
I could not satisfy myself, nowever, without ven-
turing on shore once more, to try if I could learn
any thing of him or them. It was the third night
after the action that I had a great mind to leam, if 1
could hy any means, what mischief he had done, and
how' the gsme stood on the Indian side. I was care-
ful to do it in the dark, lest we should he attacked
again; hut I ought indeed to have heen sure that the
men I went with had heen under my command he-
fore I engaged in a thing so hazardous and mischiev-
ous, as I was hrought into it without any knowledge
or desire
We took twenty stout fellows with us as any in
the ship hesides the supercargo and myself; and we
landed two hours hefore midnight, at the same place
where the Indians stood drawn up the evening hefore.
I landed here, hecause my design, as I have said,
w.ts chiefly to see if they had quhted the field, and if
they ha' left any marks heh.nd them, or of the mis-
chief we had done them; and I thought if we could
surprise one or two oi- them, perhaps we might get
our men again hy way of exchange.
We landed without any noise, and divided our men
Into two companies, whereof the hoatswain command-
ed one, and I the other. We neither could hear nor
eeany hody stir, when we landed; so we marched
up, one hody at a distance from the other, to the
field of hattle. At first " e could see nothing, it heing
very dark; hut hv and hy our hoatswain, that led the
first party, stumhled and fell over a dead hody. This
madethem halt there awhile; for knowing hy thecir
Vol. n.
,%VJ\.'j-A^-J,Vv-J-J\.'^-Jv':-'--A.-~'.-
cumstances that they were at the place where the In
dians had stood, they waited for my coming up
Here we concluded to halt till the moon hegan to rise,
which we knew would he in less than an hour, and
then we could easily discern the havock we had made
among them. We told two-and-thirty hodies upon
the ground, whereof two werp not quite dead. Some
had an arm, and some a leg, shot off, and one hit
Dead; those that were wounded we x supposed they
had carried away.
When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery
of all we could come at the knowledge of, I was for
going on hoard again; hut the hoatswain and his party
often sent me word, that they were resolved to make
a visit to the Indian town, where these dogs, as they
called them, dwelt, and desired me to go along with
them, and if they could find them, as they still fan-
cied they should, they did not douht, they said, get-
ting a good hooty, and it might he they might find
Thomas Jeffrys there, that was the man's name we
had lost.
Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well
enough what answer to have given them; for I would
have commanded them instantly on hoard, knowing
it was not a hazard fit for us to run who had a ship
and a ship's loading in our charge, and a voyage to
make, which depeuded very much upon the lives ol
the men; hut as they sent me word they were resolv-
ed to go, and only asked me and my company to go
alone with them, I positively refused it, and rose up
(for I was sitting on the ground) in order to go to the
hoat. One or two of the men hegan to importune
me to go, and when I still refused positively, hegan
•o grumhle, and say they were not under my com-
mand, and they would go. "Come, Jack," says one
of the men, "will yon go with me? I will go for
one." Jack said he would; and another followed,
and then another; and, in a word, they all left me
hut out, whom, with much difficulty too, I persuaded
ki stay , so the supercargo and I, with one man, went

hack to the hoat, where, I told them, we would stay
for them, a-nd take care to take in as many of them
as should he left; for I told them it was a mad thing
they were going ahout, and supposed most of them
would run the fate of Thomas JeflVys.
They told me, like seamen, they would warrant it
(hey would come off again, and they would take care,
ate. So away they went. I entreated them to con-
sider the ship and the voyage; that their lives were
not their own; and that they were entrusted with the
voyage in some measure; that if they miscarried, the
•nip might he lost for want of their help; and that
they could ikii auswer it to God and man. I said a
great deal more to them on that head, hut I might as
well have talked to the main-mast of the ship; they
were mad upon their journey; only they gave me
good words and hegged I would not he angry; said
they would he very cautious, and they did not douht
hut they would he hack again in ahout an hour at
farthest; for the Indian town, they said, was not
ahove half a mile off; though they found it ahove
two miles hefoie the got to it.
Well, the^ all went away as ahove; and though
the attempt was desperate, and such as none hut mad,
men would have gone ahout, yet to give them their
due, they went ahout it warily as well as holdly. They
were gallantly armed that is true; for they had every
man a fusil or musket, a hayonet, and every man a
pistol; some of them had hroad cutlasses, some of
them nangers, ani the hoatswain and two more had
pole-axes; hesides all which they had among them
thirteeen hnnd grenadoes. Bolder fcJlows, and het-
ter provided, never went ahout any wicked work in
the world.
When they went out their chief design was plun-
der, and they were in mighty hopes of finding gold
there; hut a circumstance, which none of them were
aware of, set them on 'fire with revenge, and made
devils of them oil. When they came to the few In
dian houses, which they thought had heen the town,
which wen not ahove half a milt: off, they were un
der a great disappointment; for there were not ahove
twelve or thirteen houses; and where the town was,
or how hig, they knew not. They consulted there-
fore what to do, aad were some time hefore they could
resolve; for if they fell upon these they must cut ill
their throats, and it was ten to one hut some of them
might escape, it heing in the night, though the moon
was up; and if one escaped he would run away, and
raise all the towu, so they should have a whole amy
upon them. Again, on the other hand, if they went
away, and left those untouched (for the people were
all asleep), they could not tell which way to look £01
the town.
However the last was the hest advice; so they re-
solved to leave those houses, and look for the town
as well as they could. They went on a little way, and
found a cow tied to a tree: this they presently con-
cluded would he a good guide to them; for they said
the cow certainly helonged to the town hefore them
or the town hehind them, and if they untied her they
should see which way she went; if she went hack
they had nothing to say to her, hut if she went for-
ward they hed nothing to do hut to follow her; so
they cut the cord, which was made of twisted flags,
and the cow went on hefore them. In a word, the
cow led them directly to the town, which, as they re
ported, consisted of ahove two hundred houses or
nuts; and in some of these they found several fami-
lies living together.
Here they found all silent; as profoundly secure as
aieep and a country that had never seen an enemy
f that k ind couM make them. Upon this they called
anothet council to consider what they had to do, and
in a word, they resolved to divide themselves into
three hodies, and to set three houses on fire in three
parts of the town; and as the men came out, to seixe
tham and hind them; if any resisted, they need not
he a&kud what to du then, and so to search the rest 0/
the houses for plunder; hut resolveH to march silently
first through the town, and sec what dimensions it u n
of, and consider if they might venture upon it or no.
They did so, and desperately resolved that they
would venture upon them; hut while they were am-
mating one another to the work, three of them that
were a little ahove the rest called out alouH, and told
Ihem they had found Thomas JefTrys: they all ran
up to the place; and so it was indeed, for there thvy
found the poor fellow, handed up naked hy one arm,
and his throat cut. There was an Indian house just
hy the tree, where they found sixteen or seventeen oi
the principal Indians who had heen concernec in th•
fray with us hefore, and two or three of them wounued
with our shot; and our men found they were awake,
and talking one to another in that house, hut knew
not their numher.
The sight of their poor mangled comrade so en-
raged them, as hefore, that they swore to one another
they would he revenged, and that not an Indian who
came into their hands should have quarter; and to
work they went immediately, and yet not so madly as
hy the rage and fury they were in might he expected.
Their first care was to get something that would soor
take fire; hut after a little search they found that
would he to no purpose, for most of the houses were
low, and thatched with flags or rushes, of which the
country is full: so they presently made some wild-
fire, as we call it, hy wetting a little powder in tho
palms of their hands; and in a quarter of an hour they
aet the town on fire in four or five places, and part*-
cularly that house where the Indians were not gone
to hed. As soon as the fire hegan to hlaze, the poor
frighted creatures hegan to rush out to save their lives,
hut met with their fate in the attempt, and especially
at the door, where they drove them hack, the hoat'
twain himself killing one or two with his pole-axe,
the house heing larg'\ and many in it, he din not care
togo in, hut called for a hand-grenado, and threw it
among them, which at first frighted thein; hul
when it hurst made such Havoc among them, thai
they cried out in a hideous manner.
In short, most of the Indians who were in the open
part of the house were killed or hurt with the grenado,
except two or three more, who pressed to the door,
which the hoatswain and two more kept with the
hayonets in the muzzles of theirpieces, and dispatched
all who came that way. But there was another apart
ment in the house, where the prince, or king, or
whatsoever he was, and several others, were; and
they kept in till the house, which was hy this time all
of a light flame, fell in upon them, and they were
•mothered or hurnt together.
All this while they fired not a gun hecause they
would not waken the people faster than they could
master them; hut the lire hegan to waken them fast
enough, and our fellows were glad to keep a little to-
gether in hodies; for the fire grew so raging, all tha
houses heing made of light combustihle stuff, that they
could hardly hear the street hetween them, and their
husiness was to follow the fire for the surer execu-
tion. As fast as the fire either forced the people out,
of those houses which were hurning, or frighted them
out of others, our people were ready nt their doors to
knock them on the head, still calling and hallooing
to one another to rememher Thomas Jeffrys.
While this was doing I must confess I was very
uneasy and especially when I saw the flames of the
town, which, ii heing night, seemed to he just hy me.
My nephew the captain, who was roused hy his
men too, seeing such a fire, was very uneasy, not
knowing what the matter was, or what danger I was
in ; especially hearing the guns too, for hy this timt
they hegan to use their fire-arms. A thousand thoughts
oppressed his mind concerning me and the super
cargo what should hecome of us; and at last, though
he could ill spare any more men, yet, not knowing
what exigence we might he in, he takes another hoat,
and with thirteen men and himself comes on shore
Ki ma.
He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in
the hoat with no more, than two men, for one had
Deen left to keep the hoat; and though he was glad
that we were well, yet he was in the same impatience
with us to know what was doing, for the noise con-
tinued and the flame increased. I confess it was next
to an impossihility for any men in the world to re-
strain their curiosity of knowing what had happened,
or their concern for the safety of the men. In a
word, the captain told me he would go and help his
men, let what would come. I argued with him, as I
did hefore with the men, the safety of the ship, and
the danger of the voyage, the interest of the owners
and merchants, &c. and told him I would go, and the
two men, and only see if we could at a distance, learn
what was like the he the event, and come hack and
tell him.
It was all one to talk to my nephew, as it was to
talk to the rest hefore; ho would go, he said, and he
only wished he had left hut ten men in the ship, for
he could not think of having his men lost for want of
help; he had rather, he said, lose the ship, the voy-
age, and his life, and all: and so away went he.
Nor was I any more ahle to stay hehind now than
I was to persuade them not to hefore; so, in short,
the captain ordered two men to row hack the pin-
nace, and fetch twelve men more from the ship, leav-
ing the long-hoat at an anchor; and that when they
came hack six men should keep the two hoats, and
six more come after us, so that he left only sixteen
men in the ship; for the whole ship's company con-
ststed of sixty-fire men, whereof two were lost in tha
first t;:mrrel which hrought this mischief on.
Being now on the march, you may he sure we felt
little ur the ground we trod on, and heing guided hy
the fire we kept no path, hut went directly to the
place of the flame. If the noise of the guns were sur-
prising to us hefore, the cries of the poor people were
now quite of another nature, and filled us with hor-
ror. I must confess I never was at the sacking of a

city, or at the taking of a town hy storm ; I hava
heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda in Ire
land and killing man, woman ana child ; and I had
read of Count Tilly sacking the city of Magdehourg
and cutting the throats of 22,000 of hoth sexes; hut i
never had an idea of the thing itself hefore, noi is it
possihle to descrihe it, or the horror which was upon
our minds at hearing it.
However, we went on, and at length came to the
town, though there was no entering the streets of it
for the fire. The first ohject we met with was the
ruins of a hut or house, or rather the ashes of it, for
the house was consumed; and just hefore it plain
now to he seen hy the light of the fire, lay four meu
and three women killed ; and as we thought, one or
two more lay in the heap among the fire. In short,
these were such instances of a rage altogether harha-
rous, and of a fury something heyond what was hu-
man, that we thought it impossihle our men could he
guilty of it; or ifthey were the authors of it, we
thought that every one of them ought to he put to the
worst of deaths: hut this was not all; we saw the fire
increased forward, and the cry went on just as the
fire wont on, so that we were in the utmost confusion.
We advanced a little way farther, and heheld to our
astonishment three women naked, crying in a most
dreadful manner, and flying as il they had indeed had
wings, and after them sixteen or seventeen men, na-
tives, in the same terror and consternation, with throe
of our English hutchers (for 1 cancallthem no hetter)
In the rear, who, when they could not overtake them,
fired in among them, and one that was killed hy
their shot fell down in our sight: when the rest saw
us,helieving us to he their enemies, and that w would
murder them as well as those that pursued them, they
set up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women,
and two of them fell down as if already dead with
the fright
Mv very soul shrunk within me, and my hlood ran
chill in my veins, when I saw this; and I helieve had

the three English sailors that pursued them come on,
1 had made our men kill them all. However, ws
took some ways to let the poor flying creatures know
;hat we would not hurt them, and immediately they
came up to us, and kneeling down, with their handi
lifted up, made piteous lamentations to us to save
them, which we let them know we would do; where-
upon they kept up together in a huddle close hehind
us fur protection. I left my men drawn up together
and charged them to hurt nohody, hut if possihle to
OF ROBINSON CRUSOK 185
possessed titem, and what they intended to do; and
m a word to command them off, assuring them that if
they staid till daylight they would have a hundred
thousand men ahout their ears: I say, I left them
and went among those flying people, taking only two
of our men with me; and there was indeed a piteous
spectacle among them; some of them had their feet
terrihly hurnt with trampling and running through the
fire, others their hands hurnt; one of the women had
fallen down in the fire, and was almost hurnt to death
hefore she could get out aghin; two or three of
the men had cuts in their hacks and thighs, form our
men pursuing, and another was shot through the ho-
dy, and died while I was there.
I would fain have learnt what the occasion of all
this was, hut I could not understand one word they
said, though hy signs 1 perceived that some of them
knew nat what was the occasion themselves. I was
so terrified in my thoughts at this outrageous attempt,
that 1 could not vtay there, hut went hack to my own
men: 1 told them my resolution, and commanded
them to follow me, when in the very moment came
four of our men, with the Imatswaiu at their head,run-
ning over the heaps of hodies they had killed, ail co-
vered with hlood and dust, as if they wanted more
people to massacre, when our men hallooed to them
•s loud as they could halloo, and with much ado one
of them made them hear, so that they knew who wa
. ere, and came up to us.
As soon as the hoatswain saw us he set up a halloo,
like a shout of triumph, for having as he thought,
mure help come; ana without hearing to hear me,
"Captain," says he, "nohle captain, lam glad you
are come; we have not half done yet: villains! hell.
hounds dogs , I will kill as many of them as poor Tom
has hairs upon his head. We have swom to spare
none of them , we will root out the very name of them
from the earth.n And thus he ran on, out of hreath
too with action, and would not give us leave to speak
a *ord.
At last, raismg my voice, that I might silence him
a little, "Barharous dog '." said I, "what are you
doing? I won't have one c rcature touched more upon
pain of death. I charge you upon your life to stop
your hands, and stand st.ll here, or you are a dead
man this minute."
"Why Sir," says he, " do you know what you do,
or what they have done? If you want a reason for
what we have done, come hither;" and with that hm
shewed me the poor fellow hanging upon a tree witU
his throat cut.
I confess I was urged then myself, and at anothet
time should have heen forward enough ; hut I thought
they had carried their rage too far, and thought of
Jacoh's words to his sons Simeon and Levi, "Cursed
he their auger for it was fierce; and their wrath, for
it was cruel." But 1 had now a new task upon my
hands; for when the men I carried with me saw ths
sight as f had done, I had as much to do to restrain
them, as \ should have had with the others; nay, my
nephew himself fell in with them, and told me in
their hearing, that he was only roncerned for fcar of
the men heing overpowed; for, as to the people, ne
thought not one of them ought to live; for they had
all glutted themselves with the murder of the poor
man, and that they ought to he used like murderers.
I'pon these words away ran eight of my men with the
hoitswain and his crew to complete their hloody
work; and 1, seeing it quite out of my power to re-
187
st rain them, came away pensive and sad, for I coula
nut hear the sight, much less the horrihle noise and
cries of the poor wretches that fell into their hands.
I got nohody to come hack with me hut the super-
cargo and two men, and with these I walked hack to
the hoats. It was a very great peace of folly in me,
I confess, to venture hack as it were alone; for ai
it hegan now to lie almost day, and the alarm had run
over the country, there stood ahout forty men artned
with lances and hows at the little place where the
twelve or thirteen houses stood mentioned hefore,
hut hy accident I missed the place, and came di-
rectly to toe sea-side' nnd hy that time I got to the
sea-side it was hroad day: immediately I took the
pinnace and went ahoard, and sent her hack to assist
I ohserved that ahout the time I came to the hoa>
side the fire was pretty well out, and the noise ahat-
ed: hut in ahout half an hour after I got on hoard I
heard a volley of our men's fire arms, and saw a great
smoke; this, as I understood afterwards, was our men
falling upon the forty men, who, as I said, stood at
the few nouses on the way; of whom they killed six-
teen or seventeen, and set all those houses on firo,
hut did not meddle with the women oi children.
By the time the men got to the shore again with the
pinnace our men hegan to appear; they came droj**
ping in some and some, not in two hodies, and in
form, as they went out, hut all in heaps, straggling
here and there in such a manner that a small force of
resolute men might have cut them nil off.
But the dread of them was upon the whole count-
ry. The people were amazed and surprised, and so
frighted that I helieve a hundred of them would have
fled at the sight of hut five of our men. Nor in all
this terrihle action was there a man who made any
considerahle defence; they were so surprised hetween
ihe terror of the fire, and the sudden attack of out
men in the dark, that they kne'.v not which way to
turn themselves; for If they fled one way they were

met hy one party, if hack again hy another; so thai
they were every where knocked down. Nor (lid any
of our men receive the least hurt, except one who
strained his foot, and another had one of his hands
very much hurnt.
I was very angry with my nephew the captain, and
'.fldeed with all the men, in my mind, hut with him
,n paiiicular, as well for his acting so out of his duty,
as commander of the ship, and having the charge of
the voyage upon him, as in his prompting rather than
cooling the rage of his men in so hloody and cruel
an enterprise: my nephew answered me very respect-
fully, hut told me that when he saw the hody of the
poor seaman whom they had murdered in such a cruel
and harharous manner, he was not master of himself,
neither could he govern his passion; he owned he
should not have done so, as he was commander of tha
ship, hut as he was a man and nature moved him,
he could not hear it. As for the rest of the men they
were not suhject to me at all, and they knew it well
enough, so they took no notice of my dislike.
The next day we set sail, so we never heard anjr
more of il Our men differed in the account of the
numher they killed; some said one thing, some ano-
ther; hut according to the hest of their accounts, put
all together, they killed and destroyed ahout a hundred
and fifty people, men, women, and children, and left
not a house standing in the town.
As for the poor fellow, Thomas Jeffrys, as he was
qYite dead, for his throat was so cut that his head
was half off, it would do him no service to hring him
away; so they left him where they found him, only
took him down from the tree where he was hanged
hy one hand.
However just our men thought this action to he, 1
was against them in it, and I always after that time
told them Gnd would hlast the voyage; for I looked
ipon the hlood they shed that night to he murder in
them: for though it is true that they killed Thomas
Jeffrys, yet it was true that Jeffrys was the aggresfor,
had hroken the truce, and had violated or dehauched
a young woman of theirs, who came to our camp in-
nocently, and on the faith of their capitulation.
The hoatswain defended this quarrel when we were
afterwards on hoard. He said, it was true that we
seemed to hreak the truce, hut really had not, and that
the war was hegun the night hefore hy the natives
themselves, who had shot at us, and killed one of our
men without just provocation ; so that as we weie in a
Capacity to fight them, we might also he in a capacity
to do ourselves justice upon them in an extraordinary
manner; that though the poor man had taken liherty
with a wench, he ought not to have heen murdered,
and that in such a villanous manner; and that they
did nothing hut what was just, and that the laws o1
God allowed to he done to murderers.
One woulc. think this should have heen enough to
have warned usagainstgoingon short among heathens
am1 harharians; hut it is impossihle to make man-
kind wise hut at their own experience; and their ex-
perience seems to he always of most use to them whea
it is dearest housht
.
We were now hound to the Gulf of Persia, and
from thence to the coast of Coromandel, only to
touch at Surat; hut the chief of the supercargo's de-
sign lay at the Bay of Bengal, where if he missed of
the husiness outward-hound he was to go up to China,
and return to the const as he came home.
The first disaster that hefel us was in the Gulf of
Persia, where five of our men venturmg on shore on
Ihe Arahian side of the Gulf were surrounded hy the
Arahs, and either all killed or carried away into sla-
very; the rest of the hoats crew were not ahle to
escue them, and had hut just tim* to get off their
hoat. I hegan to uphraid them wim the just retrihu-
tion of Heaven in this case; hut the hoatswain very
warmly told me, he thought I went farther in my ceiv
aures than I could shew any warrant for in Scripture,
and referred to the thirteenth of St. Luke, ver. 4,
AliCic our Saviour intimates that those men on wi.on
33
Ihe tower of Siloam fell, were not sinners ahove al
rijeGalilcans; hut that which indeed put me to silence
in this case was, that none of these five men who
were now lost were of the numher of those who went
on shore to the massacre of Madagascar (so I alwaya
called it, though our men could not hear the word ma$
tacre with any patience:) and indeed this last circum
sta nee, as I have said, put me to silence for the presenl
But my frequent preaching to them on this suhjec
had worse consequences than I expected ; and thn
hoatswain, who had heen the head of the attempt,
came up holdly to me one time, and told me he found
that I continually hrought that affair upon the stage,
thai I made unjust reflections upon it, and had i.sed
the men very ill on that account, and himself in par-
ticular; that as I was hut a passenger, and had no
command in the ship or concern in the voyage, they
were not ohliged to hear it; that they did not know
hut I might have some ill design in my head, and per-
haps call them to an account for it when they came to
England; and that therefore, unless I would resolve to
have done with it, and also not to concern myself far-
ther with him, or any of his affairs, he would leav*
the ship; for he did not think it was safe to sail with
me among them.
1 heard him patiently enough till he had done, and
then told him that I (fid confess I had all along oppos-
ed the massacre of Madagascar, for such I would al
ways call it; and that I had on all occasions spoken
my mind freely ahout it, though not more upon him
than any of the rest; that as to my having no com-
mand of the ship, that was true, nor did I exercise
any authority, only took the liherty of speaking my
mind in things which puhlicly concerned us all; as to
what concern I had in the voyage, that was none of
his husiness; I was a considerahle owner of the ship,
and in that claim 1 conceived 1 had a right to speak,
even farther than I had yet done, and would no? ho
accountahle to him or ary one else; and hegan to he
a little warm with him; he made hut little reply to
me at the time, and I thought that affair had heen
over. We were at this time in the road to Bengal;
and heing willing to see the place, I went on shora
with the supercargo, in the ship's hoat to divert my
self; and towards evening was preparing to go oa
hoard, when one of the men came to me, and told ma
he would not have me trouhle myself to come down to
the hoat, for they had orders not to carry me oa
hoard. Any one may guess what a surprise I was in
at so insolent a message ; and I asked the mat: who
hade him deliver that errand to me? He told me, tha
coxswain. I said no more to the fellow, hut hid him
let them know he had delivered his message, and that
1 had given him no answer to it
.
I immediately went and found out the supercargo,
and told him the story, adding, what I presently fore-
taw, viz. that there would certainly he a mutiny in
the ship; and entreated him to go immediately on
hoard the ship in an Indian hoat, and acquaint tha
captain of it hut I might have spared this intelli-
gence, for hefore I had spoken to him on shore tha
matter was effected on hoard : the hoatswain, the gun-
ner the carpenter, and, in a word, all the inferior
officers, as soon as I was gone off in the hoat, came
up to lhe quarter-deck, and desired to speak with tha
captain; and there ihe hoatswain making a long ha-
rangue, (for the fellow talked very v' ell) and repeatmg
all he had said to me, told the captain m a few won la,
that as 1 was now gone peaceahly on shore, they were
loath to use any violence with me; which if 1 had not
gone on shore, they would otherwise have done, to
ohlige me to have gone. They therefore thought fit to
tell him, that as they shipped themselves to serve in tha
ship under hiscommand they would perform it faith-
fully; hutifl would not qmt the ship, or the captain
ohlige me to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and
tail no farther with him; and at that word All, ho
turned his face ahout towards the main-mast, which
was, it seems, the signal agreed on hetween them, at
whtch all the seamen heing got together, they cried
out. "One and All, One and All!"
My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and
of great presence of mind , and though he was sun
prised, you may he sure, at the thing, yet he told them
calmly he would consider on the matter, hut that he
could do uothing in it till he had spoken to me ahout
it: he used some arguments with them to shew them
the uoreasonahleness and injustice of the thing, hut it
was all in vain , they swore and shook hands round,
hefore his face, that they would go all on shore unless
he would engage to them not to suffer me to come on
hoard the ship.
This was a hard article upon him, who knew his
ohligat:on to me, and did not know how I might take
it ; so he hegan to talk cavalierly to them ; told them
that I was a very considerahle owner in the ship, and
that in justice he could not put me out of my own
house; that this was next door to serving me as the
famous pirate Kid had done, who made the mutiny in
the ship, set the captain on shore in an uninhahited
island, and ran away with the ship; that let them go
into what ship they would, if ever they came to Eng'
land again it would cost them dear ; that the ship was
mine, and that he would not put me out of it t and
that he would rather lose the ship, and the voyage too,
than disohlige me so much; so they might do as they
pleased. However, he would go on shore, and talk
with me there, and invited the hoatswain to go with
him, and perhaps they might accomn odatethesmattec
with me.
But they all rejected the proposal ; and said, they
would have nothing to do with me any more, neither
on hoard nor on shore ; and if I came on hoard, they
would go on shore. "Well," said the captain, "if
you are all of this mind, let me go on shore, and talk
with him so away hecan-e to me with thisaccount,
a little after tin message had heen hrought to me fits*
the coxswain.
1 was very glad to to see my nephew 1 must con less
for I was not without apprehensions that they would
confine hint hy violence, set sail, and run away with
the ship; and then I ha i heen stripped naked in a
•etnote country, and nothing to help myself; in shors,
I had heen in a worse case than when I was all alone
in the island.
But they had not come to that length, it seems, to
my great satisfaction fand when my nephew told ins
what they had said to him, and how they had s\\ orn,
and shook hands, that they would one and all leave
the snip, if 1 was suffered to come on hoard, 1 told
him he should not he concerned at it at all, for I
would stay on shore; I only desired he would take
care and send me all my necessary things on shore,
and leave me a sufficient sum of money, and I would
find my way to England as well as I could.
This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew;
hut there was no way to help it, hut to comply with
it. So, in short, he went on hoard the ship again,
and satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded tc
their importunity, and had sent for his goods from on
hoard the ship. So the matter was over in a very few
hours; the men returned to their duty, and 1 begun
to consider what course I should steer.
I was now alone in the remotest part of the world,
as I think I may call it, for I was near three thousand
leagues hy sea, farther off fron, England than I waa
at my island ; only, it is true, I might travel here hy
land, over the Great Mogul's country to Surat, might
£o from thence to Bassora hy sea, up the Gulf of
Persia, and from thence might take the way of the ca-
ravans, over the deserts of Arahia, to Allcppo and
Scanderoon, and from thence hy sea again to Italy,
and so overland into France; and this put together,
might he, at least, a full diameter of the glohle; hut,
if it were to he measured, 1 suppose it would appeat
to he w great deal more.
1 had another way .hefore me, which was to war. for
vol. u
some English ships, which were coming to Bengat,
from Achin, on the island of Sumatra, and get passage
on hoard them for England: hut as I came hithet
without any concern with the English East India Com-
pany, so it would he difficult to go from hence with.
out their license, unless with great favour of the cap
tains of ihe ships, or of the Company's factors; and to
hoth f was an utter stranger. •
Here 1 had the particular pleasure, speaking hy
contrarieties, to see the ship set sail without me; a
treatment, I think, a man in my circumstances scarce
ever met with, except from pirates running away with
a ship, and setting those that would not agree with
their villany on shore: indeed this was the next door
to it hoth ways. However, my nephew left me two
servants, or rather, one companion and one servant i
the first was clerk to the purser, whom he engaged to
go with me; and the other was his own servant. I
took me also a good lodging in the house of an Eng-
lish woman, where several merchants lodged, some
French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one English-
man. Here I was handsomely enough entertained;
and that I might not he said to run rashly upon any
thing, I stayed here ahove nine months, considering
what course to take, and how to manage myself. I
had some English goods with me of value, and aeon-
tiderahle sum of money; my nophew furnishing mo
with a thousand pieces of eight, and a letter of credit
for more, if I had occasion, that I might not he strait-
ened, whatever might happen.
I quickly disposed of my goods, and to advantage
too ; and, as I originally intended, I hought here some
very good diamonds, which, of all other things, wai
lie most proper for me, in my circumstances, hecauas
] might always carry my whole estate ahout me.
After a long stay here, and many proposals made
(or my return to England, hut none falling to my
mind, the English merchant, who lodged with me, and
withwnom i na. I contracted an intimate acquaintance,
came to me xk morning: "Countryman," says he,
195
• T have a project to communicate to youf which, at
ll suits with my thoughts, may, for ought I know, suit
with yours also, when you shall have thoroughly con-
sidered it.
"Here we are posted," says he, "you hy acci-
dent, and I hy my own choice, in a part of the world
very remote from our own country; hut it is in a
country where, hy us who understand trade and husi-
ness, a great deal of money is to he got: if you wil
^ut a thousand pounds to my thousand pounds, wo
will hire a ship here, the first we can get to our minds;
you shall he captain. Til lie merchant, and we will go
a trading voyage to China; for what should we stand
•till for? The whole world is in motion, rolling round
and round , all the creatures of God, heavenly hodiei
and earthly, are husy and diligent: why should we ho
Idle? There are no drones," says he," living in the
world hut men: why should we he of that numher?"
I liked this proposal very well; and the more he-
cause it seemed to he expressed with so much good
will, and in so friendly a manner. I will not say, hut
that 1 might, hy my loose and unhinged circumstances,
he the fitter to emhrace a proposal for trade, and in-
deed for any thing else; or otherwise trade was none
of my element; however, I might, perhaps, say with
aome truth, that "i( trade was not my element, ram-
hling was -, and no proposal for seeing any part of the
world, which I had never seen hefore, could possihly
come amiss to me.
It was, however, some time hefore we coidd get a
ship to our mind; and when we got a vessel, it wai
not easy to get English sailors; that is to say, so many
as were necessary to govern the voyage, and man ago
the sailors which we should pick up there. After
some time we got a mate, a hoatswain, and gunner,
English: a Dutch carpenter, and three Portugese
Ihremast-men: with these we found we could do well
•nough, having Indian seamen, such as they are, to
make up.
There are »t many travellers wh,* ha\ e written the

history ot their voyages and travels this way, that it
would he hut very little diverson to any hody, to
give a long account of the places we went to, and th*
people who inhahit there: those things I leave to
others, and iifer the reader to those journals and :ra>
vels of Englishmen, many of which, I find are puh-
lished, and more promised every day. It is enough
for me to tell you that we made the voyage to Achm,
in the island of Sumatra, first; and from thence to
Siamt where we exchanged some of our wares for
opium, and for some arrack; the first, a commodity
which hears a great price among the Chinese, and
which, at that time, was very much wanted there: ra
a word, we went up to Susham; made a very great
voyage; were eight months out; and returned to Bei>
gal: and I was very well satisfied with my adventure*
I ohserve, that our people in England often admire
how the officers, which the Company send into India,
and the merchants which generally stay there, get such
very good estates as they do, and sometimes come
home worth sixty, seventy, and a hundred thousand
pounds at a time. But it is no wonder, or, at least,
we shall see so much farther into it, when we consider
the innumerahle ports and places where they have a
free commerce, that it will then he no wonder; and
much less will it he so, when we consider, that at all
those places and ports where the English ships come,
there is so much, and such constant demand for the
growth of all other countries, that there is a certain
196 LIFE AND ADVENTURES
goods carried out
In short, we made a very good voyage, and 1 got
so much money hy the first adventure, and such ao
*isi'?rtt into the method of getting more, that, had I
heen twenty years younger, I should have heen tempt
ed to have staid there, and sought no farther for make
rtg my fortune. Hut what was all this to a man on tht
wrong side of three-score, that was rich enough, and
came ahroad more in ohedience to a restless desire of
196 LIFE AND ADVENTURES
I? And indeed I think it is with threat justice'that 1
Dow call it a restless desire, for it was so: when I wat
st home, I was restless to go ahroad; and now I
el,road, I was restless to he at home I say, what was
(his gain to me? I was rich enough already; nor had
1 any uneasy desires ahout getting more monev; and
therefore the profits of the voyage to me were things
Of no great force to me, for the prompting me forward
|o farther undertakings, hence I thought, that hy this
voyage I had made no progress at all; hecause I was
come hack, as I might call it, to the place from whence
I came, as to a home; whereas my eye, which l:ke
that which Solomon speaks of, was never satisfied
with seeing, was still more desirous of wandering and
seeing. I was come into a part of the world which |
never was in hefore; and that part in particular which
I had heard much of; and was resolved to see as
much of it as I could; and then I thought f might say
I had seen all the world that was worth seeing.
But my fellow-traveller and I had different notions'
I do not name this to insist upon my own, for I ac-
knowledge his was most just, and the most suited to
the end of a merchant's life; who, when he is ahroad
apon adventures, it is his wisdom to stick to that, as
the hest thing for him, which he is like to get the most
money hy. My new friend kept himself to the nature
of the thing, and would have heen content to have
gone, like a carrier's horse, always to the same inn,
hackwan! and forward, provided he could, as he called
h, f:nd his account in it: on the other hand, mine, as
old as I was, was the notion of a mad ramhling hoy,
that never cares to see a thing twice over.
But this was not all: I had a kind of impatience
upon me to he nearer home, and yet the most unsettled
resolution imaginahle, which way to go. In the inter-
val of these consultations, my friend, who was always
vpon the search for husiness, proposed another voyage
to ine, viz., among the Spice Islands: and to hring
*r:ne a load of cloves from the Manillas, or there-
UkkiU; places where, indeed, the Dutch do trade, hut


the islands helong partly to the Spaniards ; though w
went not so far. hut to some other, where they have
not the whole power as they have at Batavia, Ceylon^
Slc. We were not long in preparing for this voyage;
the chief difficulty was in hringing me to come into
it: however, at last, nothing else offering, and finding
that really stirring ahout and trading, the profit heing
an great, and. as I may say, certain, had more plea-
sure in it, and more satisfaction to the mind, than sit-
ting still; which, to fee especially, was the un happiest
part of life, I resolved on this voyage too; which wa
made very successfully, touching at Borneo, and seve-
ral islands, whose names I do not rememher, and
came home in ahout five months. We sold our spice,
which was chiefly cloves, and some nutmegs, to the
Persian merchants, who carried them away for tha
Gclf; and, making near five of one, we really got a
great deal of money.
My friend, when we made up this account, smiled
art me - " Well now," said he, with a sort of an agree*
ahle insult upon my indolent temper, " is not this het*
ter than walking ahout here, like a man of nothing to
do, and spending our time in starmg at the nonsense
and ignorance of t he Pagans ?"—" W hy truly," said I,
"my friend, I think it is; aml I hegin to he a convert
to the principles of merchandising. But I must tell
you," said I, " hy the way, you do not know what I
am doing: for if once f conquer my hackwardness,
and emhark heartily, as old as I am, I shall harass
you up and down the world till I tire you; for I shall
pursue it so eagerly, I sha!l never let you lie still."
But to he short with my speculations: a little while
after this there came in a Dutch ship fiom Batavia
she was a coaster, not an European trader, and of
ahout two hundred tons hurden • the men, as they pre-
tended, having heen so sickly, that the captain had not
man enough to go to sea with, he lay hy at Bengali
and, as if havmg got money enough, or heing willing,
ftir other reasons, to go for Europe, he gave puhlic no-
tice, that he would sell his ship: this came to my ears
hefore ray new partner heard of it; and I had a great
mind to huy it . So I went home to him, and told him
of it: he considered awhile, for he was no rash man
neither; hut musing some time, he replied, " She is a
little too hig; hut, however, we will have her." Ac-
cordingly we hought the ship; and, agreeing with the
master, we paid for her, and took possession ; when
we had done so, we resolved to entertain the men, if
we could, to join them with those we had, for the
ursuing our husiness; hut on a sudden, they not hav-
mg received their wages, hut their share of the money,
as we afterwards learnt, not one of them was to he
found. We inquired much ahout them, and at length
were told, that t'.ey were all gone, together, hy land,
to Agra, the great city of the Mogul's residence; and
from thence were to travel to Surat, and so hy sea to
the Gulf of Persia.
Nothing had so heartily trouhled me a good while,
as that I missed the opportunity of going with them;
for such a ramhle, I thought, and in such company as
would hoth have guarded me and diverted me, would
have suited mightily with my great design; and I
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
too; hut 1 was much hetter satisfied a few days after,
when I came to know what sort of fellows they were;
for, in short, their history was, that this man they
called captain was the gunner only, not the comman-
der; that they had heen a trading voyage, in which
they were attacked on shore hy some of the Malaccans,
who had killed the captain and three of his men ; and
that after the captain was killed, these men, eleven in
Dumher, had resolved to run away with the ship,
which they did , and had hrought her in at the Bay of
Bengal, leaving the mate and five men more on shore
ftf whom we shall hear further.
Well; let them come hy the ship how they would,
tie came honestly hy her, as we thought; though we
did not, I confess, examine into things so exactly aj
ve ought; for we never inquired any thing of the sea-
men, who, if we had examined, would certainly have
fanned m then' accounts- cor-Ta-.itcteti one anochee,
and penvps an comn .xoot ten~scores: or, one
t to hart su»
a htD ot >aav

aucn hh.oc . tor I suppose k wit asl a forgery) aaaf
caukc ? maeii hy thou name, and we could not coav
fnadtct tum: and heng withal a tittle too tarwary, en,
at ieass. raring; no susp:cton af the tiuag, we wees
aarone^s wwh aw ha/gntn-
Ho*wt, ne ptcked up some Encish aeasoeo hete
sAn chau and saore Dutch; and are aoar teaBitad
ax a second r or age to the soutit-easl foe clores. acc
fanned m then' accounts- cor-Ta-.itcteti one anochee,
laics -. and. as sacrt, ant aa fill tha part of my story
ar.th treati, when what » ret to come is » remarkv
ahte. I >penft front, arst to iak. six years in this coun-
sry, oa^tng from port td port, hackward and for-
ward, aad with very •ood success; and was now the
h>t nar win mr partner. going m toe ship ahorc*
meotnned on a rcraae to China; hut destgning fira-
to co >iam. tn huy rice.
Io tn:t v^vage. he'inS hy contrary winds ohliged at
orat up au-t iown a great while in the straits of Ma-
lacca- an - amons the islands, we were no sooner gat
clear of those c-ificuit seas, hut we found our ship
ha-~i sprung a Ink. and we were not ahle, hy all our
aa!ustrr, to find out where it was. This foreVI us go
make for tome port. and my partner, who knew the
country hetter than I did. directed the captatn to put
ktso the rirer of Camhodia: for I nad made the EatJ-
fish mate, one Mr. Thompson, captain, not he ma
vrUmg to take the charge of the ship upon myself
This rirer lays on the north side of the great hay, oj
gulf, wnich £oes up to Siam.
W'n .ie we were here, and going often on shore for
refreshment, there comes to me one day an English-
man. and he was. it seems, a gunner's mate on hoard
an Engltsh Eass Inda ship, which rode in the same
.rrer, up ar or near the city of Camhodia' wha?
kf you are taken, you will he hanged for a pirate,
and the particulars he examined into afterwards. J
thought, Sir," added he," 1 should have met with a
hetter reception than this, for doing you a piece of
service of such importance."—" I can never he un-
grateful," said I, " for any service, or to any man that
offers me any kindness; hut it is past my comprehen-
•ton," said I, " what they should have such a design
upon me for: however, since you say there is no time
to he lost, and that there is some villanous design id
hand against me, I will go on hoard this minute, and
put to sea immediately, if my men can stop the leak,
or if we can swim without stopping it: hut. Sir,"
said I, " shall I go away ignorant of the reason of all
t1i is} Can you give me no farther light into it?"
"1 can tell yon hut part of the story, Sir," says he;
* hut I have a Dutch seaman here with mo, and, I
helieve, I could persuade him to tell you the rest; hut
there is scarce time for it: hut the short of the story
is this, the first part of which, I suppose, you know
well enough, viz. that you were witli this ship at Su-
matra ; that there your captain was murdered hy tlie
Malaccans, with three of his men; and that you, or
some of those that were on hoard with you, ran away
with the ship, and are since turned pirates. This is
the sum of the story, and you will all he seized as pi-
rates, I can assure you, and executed with very hula
ceremony : for you know merchant-ships show hut
Sttle law to pirates, if they get them in their power.''
"Now you speak plain English," said I," and'
thank you; and though I know nothing that we ha?%
done, like what you talk of, hut 1 am sure we cam*
onestly and fairly hy the ship; yet seeing such won
b a-doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean ho-
testly, I will he upon my guard."—" Nay, Sir,"saya
he, " do not talk of heing upon your guard; the hesr
defence is to he out of the ctanger: if you have an.
regard to your life, and the lives of all your men, put
out to sea without fail at high-water; and as you havt
a whole tide hefore you, you will he gone too far out
hefore they can come down: for they will come
awav at high-water; end as they have twenty miles
to come, you'll get near two houn of them hy the
difference of the tide, not reckoning the length of the
way: hesides, as they are only hoats, and not ships,
they will not venture to follow you far out to sea.
especially if it hlows."
"Well," said 1," you hare heen very kind in thist
what shall I do for you to make you amends?''—
» Sir," says he," you may not he so willing to make
me amends, hecause you may not he convinced of
the truth of it: I will make an offer to you; 1 have
mneteen months pay due to me on hoard the ship
. , which I came out of England in; and the
Dutchman that is with me, has seven months pay due
to him ; if you will make good our pay to us, we will
go along with you: if you find nothing more in it,
we will desire no more; hut if we do convince you,
that we have saved your life, and the ship, and the
lives of all the men in her.we will leave the rest to you.'
I consented to this readily: and went immediately
on hoard, and the two men with me. As soon as I
came to the ship's side, my partner who was on hoard,
came on the quartet deck, and called to me with a
great deal of joy," O ho! O ho! we have stopped the
leak!"—"Say you so?'' said I; "thank God: hut
weigh the anchor then immediately."—"Weigh!"
says he; "what do you mean hy that? What is the
matter?'' says he. "Ask no questions," said 1," hut
all hands to work, and weigh without losing a min-
ute." He was surprised: hut, however, he called
the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor
to he got up; and though the tide was not quite done*
yet a little land-hreeee hlowing, we stood out to sea;
then I called him into the cahin, and told him the
story at large; and we called in the men, and they
told us the rest of it: hut as it took us up a great deal
of time, so hefore we had done, a seaman comes to
the cahin-door, and calls out to us, that the captain
bade him tell us, we were chased. Chafed!" said
I; "hy whom, and hy what ?"—" By five sloops, ci
hoats," said the fellow," lull of men."—" Very well,"
taid I; " then it is apparent there is something in it."
In the next place, 1 ordered all our men to he called
up; and told them, that there was a design to seiza
the ship, and to take us for pirates ; and asked them.
If they would stand hy us, and hy one another? Tha
men answered cheerfully, one and all, that they would
live and die with us. Then I asked the captain,
what way he thought hest for us to manage a fignt
with them ; for resist them I resolved we would, and
that to the last drop. He said, readily, that the way
was to keep them off with our great shot, as long ai
we could, and then to fire at them with our small
arms to keep them from hoarding us; hut when nei-
ther of these would do any longer, we should reure
to our close quarters; perhaps they had not materials
to hreak open our hulk-heads, or get in upon us.
The gunner had, in the mean time, orders to hring
two guns to hear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to
dear the deck, and load them with musket-halls and
•mall pieces of old iron, and what next came to hand t
and thus we made ready for fight; hut all this white
(kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see tha
hoats at a distance, heing five large long hoats follow*
Ing us, with all the sail they could make.
Two of these hoats, which hy our glasses, we could
see were English, had outsailed the rest, were near
two leagues a head nf them, and gained upon us con-
siderahly ; so that we found they would come up with
us: upon which we fired a gun without shot, to in-
timate that they should hring to; and we put out a
flag of truce, as a signal for parley; hut they kept
crowding after us, till they came within shot: upon
this we took in our white flag, they having made n»
answer to it; hung nut thr red flag, and fired at thom
with shot: notwithstanding this, they came on till
thny were near eneugh to call to them with a speaking
trumpet, which we had on hoard: so we called to
'Urn, and keep off at their pern.
I, "hy whom, and hy what ?"—" By fire sloops, at
hoats," said the fellow," full of men."—" Very well,''
said I; "then it is apparent there is something ia
tt." In the next place, I ordered all our men to he
called up; and told them, that there was a design to
seize the ship, and to take us for pirates; and asked
them, if they would stand hy us, and hy one another?
The men answered cheerfully, one and all, that they
would live and die with us. Then I asked the cap
tain, what way he thought hest for us to manage a
fight with them; for, resist them I resolved we would,
and that to the last drop. He said, readily, that the
way was to keep them off with ourgreat shot, as lone
as we could, and then to fire at them with our small
arms, to keep them from hoarding us; hut when nei-
ther of these would do any longer, we should retire
to our close quarters; perhaps they had not materials
to hreak open our hutknearis, or get in upon us.
The gunner had, in the mean time, orders to hring
two guns to hear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to
clear the deck, and load them with musket-hullets and
small pieces of old iron, and what next came to hand;
and thus we made ready for fight; hut all this while
kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see the
hoats at a distance, heing five large long-hoats foW
lowing us, with all the sail they could make.
Two of these hoats, which, hy our glasses, we could
sec were English, had outsailed the rest, were near
two leagues ahead of them, and gained upon us con-
siderahly ; so that we found they would come up with
us: upon which we fired a gun without a shot, to in-
timate that they should hring to; and we put out a
flag of truce, as a signal for parley; hut they kept
crowding after us, till they came within shot: upon
this we took in our white flag, they having made no
answer to it; hung out the red flag, and fired at them
with shot; notwithstanding this, they came on till
they were near enough to call to them with a speaking-
trumpet, which we had on hoard ; so we called te
them* and hade them keep off at their peril.
It was all one, they crowded after us, and endea-
voured to come under our stern, so to hoard us am
our quarter i upon which, seeing they were resolute
for mischief, and depended upon the strength that fol
lowed them, I ordered to hring the ship to, so thai
they lay upon our hroadside, wnen immediately wa
fired five guns at them; one of them had heen levelled
so true, as to carry away the stern of the hindermost
hoat, and hring them to the necessity of taking down
their sail, and running all to the head of the hoat to
keep her from sinking; so she lay hy, and had enough
of it; hut seeing the foremost hoat still crowd on af-
ter us, we made ready to fire at her in particular.
While this was doing, one of the three hoats that
was hehind, heing forwarder than the other two, made
up to the hoat which we had disahled, to relieve her,
and we could afterwards see her take out the men:
we called again to the foremost hoat, and offered a
truce to parley again, and to know what was her hu-
siness with us: hut had no answer; only she crowded
close under our stern. Upon this, our gunner, who
was a very dexterous fellow, run out his two chase-
guns, and fired at her: hut the shot missing, the men
in the hoat shouted, waved their caps, and came on:
hut the gunner getting quickly ready again, fired
among them a second time; one shot of which, though
it missed the hoat itself, yet fell in among the men,
and we could easily see had done a great deal of in is
chief among them; hut we, taking no notice of that
weared the ship again, and hrought our quarter tr. ocas
U|Krn them; and, firing three guns more, we found
the hoat was split almost to pieces; in particular, hsr
rudder, and a piece of her stern, were shot quite away,
so they handed their sail immediately, and were In
great disorder: hut, to complete their mifortune, ous
gunner let fly two guns at them again ; where he hit
Utem we could not tell, hut we found the haot was
sinking, and some of the met already in the wntes
Upon this I immediately manned out our pinnace,
which we had keot close hy our side, with orders
34
uick up some of the men, if they could, and save than
from crowning, and immediately to come on hoard
with them ; hecause we saw the rest of the hoats he-
gan to come up. Our men in the pmnace followed
their orders, and took up three men; one of which
was just drowning, and it was a good while hefore we
could recover him. As soou as they were on hoard,
we crowded all the sail we could make' and stood
farther out to sea; and we found, that when the other
three hoats came up to the first two, they gave ovei
their chase.
Bemg thus delivered from a danger, which though
I knew not the reason of it, yet seemed to he much
greater than I apprehended, I took care that we should
change our course, and not let any one imagine whi-
ther we were going; so we stood out to sea eastward,
quite out of the course of all European ships, whethei
they were hound to China, or any where else within
the commerce of the European nations.
When we were now at sea, we hegan to consult
with the two seamen, and inquire first, what the mean-
ing of all ihis should he? The Dutchman let us intr
the secret of it at once ; telling us, that the fellow that
sold us the ship, as we said, was no more than a
thief that had run away with her. Then he told us
how the captain, whose name too he mentioned, though
1 do not rememher it now, was treacherously mur-
dered hy the natives on the coast of Malacca, with
three of his men; and that tie, this Dutchman, and
four more, got into the woods, where they wandered
ahout a great while; till at len^Jh he, in particular,
in a miraculous manner, made his escape, and swam
off to a Dutch ship, which sailing near the shore in
Its way from China, had sent their hoat on shore tbi
fresh water; that he durst not come to tiie part of
the shore where the hoat was, hut made shift in in*
night to take in the water farther off, and swimming
a great while, at last the ship's hoat took him up.
He then told us, that he went to Batavia, where
"woof the seamen helongmg to the ship had arrived.
having deserted the rest in their travels; and gave an
account, that the fellow who had run away with the
ahip, sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were
gone a cruis:ng in her; and that tt:ey had already
taken an English ship, and two Dutch ships, very
richly laden.
This latter part we found to concern us directly;
and though we knew it to he false, yet, as my partner
said very well, if we had fallen into their hands, and
they had such a prepossession against us heforehand,
tt had heen in vatn tor us to have defended ourselves,
or to hope for any good quarters at their hands; es-
pecially considering that our accusers had lnen our
iudges, and that we could have expected noth:ng from
them hut what rage would have dictated, and oi.go-
verned passion have executed ; and therefore it was
his opinion, we should go directly hack to Bengal,
from whence we came, wtthout putting in at any port
whatever; hecause there we could give an account of
ourselves, and could prove where we were when ti e
ship put in, whom we hought her of, and the like;
and, which was more than all the rest, if we were put
to the necessity of hringing it hefore the proper judges,
we should he sure to have some justice; and not he
hanged first and judged afterwards.
I was some time of my partner's opinion ; hut after
a little more serious thinking, I told him, I thought
it was a very great hazard for us to attempt returmng
to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong side of the
Strait of Malacca ; and that if the alarm was given,
we should he sure to he waylaid on every side, as
well hv the Dutch of Batavia, as the English elsewhere;
that if we should he taken, as it were, running away,
we should even condemn ourselves, and there would
want no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked
the English sailor's opinion, who said, he was of my
mind, and that we should certainly he taken.
Thi. danger a little started my partner, and all the
ship's company; and we immediately resolve-] to
away to the coast of Tonquin, and so on to China-
and from .nence pursumg the arst cesign,as tt trade
find some way or other to dispose of the ship, an6
come hack in some of the vessels of the country, such
as we could get. This was approved of as the hest
method lor our security; and accordingly we steered
•way N. N. E keeping ahove fifty leagues off from
the usual course to ihe eastward.
This, however, put us to some inconveniences; for,
first the winds, when we came to that distance from
the shore, seemed to he more steadily against its,
hlowing almost trade as we call it, from the E. and
E. N. E, so that-we were a long while upon our
voyage, and we were hut ill provided with victuals
for so long a run ; and, which was still worse, there
was some danger that those English and Dutch ships,
whose hoats pursued us, whereof some were hound
that way, mignt he got in hefore us; and if not, some
other ship hound to China might have information of
us from them, and pursue us with the same vigour.
I must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought
myself, including the laie escape from the long-hoats,
to have heen in the most dangerous condition thai
ever I was in through all my past life; for whatever
tll circumstances I had heen in, I was never pursued
for a thief hefore ; nor had I ever done any thing
that merited the name of dishonest or fraudulent, mucn
less, thievish. I had chiefly heen mine own enemy;
or, as 1 may rightly say, I had heen nohody's enemy
hut my own. But now I was emharrassed in tht
worst condition imaginahle; for, though 1 was perfect
ly innocent, I was m no condition to make that inno-
cence appear: and if 1 had heen taken, it had heen
under a supposed guilt of the worst kind; at least, ft
rime esteemed so among the people I had to do with.
This made me very anxious to make an escape,
though which way to do it I knew not; or what port
or place we should go to. My partner, seeing me
thus dejected, though lie was the most concerned at
first, hegan to encourage me; and descrihing to me the
several ports of that coast, told me, he would put ia
209

Mi the coast of Cochirichina, or the hay of Tonqum;
mtenHing to go afterwards to Macao, a town once in
the possession of the Portuguese, and where still a
great many European families resided, and pariicuv
Early the missionary priests usually went thither, in or-
der to their going forward to China.
Hither we then resolved to go; and accordingly,
though after a tedious and irregular course, and very
m'ir-h straitened for provisions, we came within sight
of the coast very early in the morning; and upon re-
flection upon the past circumstances we were m, and
the danger, if we had not escaped, we resolved to put
mto a small river, which, however, had depth enough
of water for us, and to see if we could, either over
land or hy the ship's pinnace, come to know what
was, indeed, our deliverance, for though we dio not
immediately see any European ships in the hay of
Tonrjnin, yet, the next morning, there came into the
hay two Dutch ships; and a third without any colours
spread out, hut which we helieved to he a Dutchman,
passed hy at ahout two leagues distance, steering for
the coast of China; and, in the afternoon, went hy two
English ships, steering the same course; and thus w•
thought we saw ourselves heset with enemies, hoth
one way and the other. The place we were in was
wild and harharous, the people thieves, even hy oc-
cupation or profession; and though, it is true, we had
not much to seek of them, and except getting a few
provisions, cared not how little we had to do with
them; yet it was with much difficulty that we kept
ourselves from heing insulted hy them several ways.
We were in a small river of this country, within a
few leagues of its utmost limits northward, and hy
our hoat we coasted north-east to the point of land
which opens to the great hay of Tonquiu: and it was
In this heating up along the shore that we discovered
as ahove, that in a word, we were surrounded with
enemies. The people we were among were the most
harharous nf nil me inhahitant* of the coast: havmg
Vol. 11.—


«io life and adve:*tx'rf:.s
no correspondence with any other nation, and dealing <
only in fish and oil, and such gross commodities;?
and it may he particularly seen that they are, as 1 said, 3
the most harharous of any of the inhahitants, vhv that
among other customs they have this one, that if any 5
vessel had the misfortune to he shipwrecked upon 5
their coast, they presently make the men all prisoners; s
that is to say, slaves; and it was not long hefore we ,J
friund a spice of their kindness this way, on the occa?
uon following:'!
I have ohserved ahove that our ship sprung a leak jj
at sea, and that we could not find it out: and however?
it happened, that, as I have said, it was stopped un- 5
expectedly, in the happy minute of our heing to he 5
seized hy the Dutch and English ships, near the hay?
of Siam; yet, as we did not find the ship so perfectly?
tight and sound as we desired, we resolved, while we 5
were in this place, to lay her on shore, take out what s
heavy things we had on hoard, which were not many, £
and to wash and clean her hottom, and if possihle to 5
find out where the leaks were.?
Accordingly, having lighted the ship, and hrought \
all our guns, and other moveahle things, to one side, $
we tried to hring her down, that we might come nt 5
her hottom; for, on second thoughts, we did not care <
to lay her dry aground, neither could we find out a 5
proper place for it?
The inhahitants, who had never heen acquainted s
with such a sight, came wondering down to the shore I
to look at us; and seeing the ship lie down on one 5
side in such a maner, and heeling toward the shore,?
and not seeing our men, who were at work on her <
hottom with stages, and with their hoats, on the off $
side, they presently concluded that the ship was cast >
away, and lay so very fast on the ground. c
On this supposition they came all ahout us in two 5
or three hours time, with ten or twelve large hoats, 5
having -ome of them eii,ht, some ten men in a hoat, 5
mtendmg no douht, to have come on hoard and nlun> I
dex the ship; and if they had found us there, to hars 5
211
carried us away for slaves to their king, or whatever
they call him, for we knew not who was their go-
vernor.
When they came up to the ship, and hegan to row
round her, i hey discovered us all hard at work, on
the outside of the ship's hottom and side, washing and
graving, and stopping, as every seafaring man knows
now.
They stood for awhile gazing at us, and we, whe
were a little surprised, could not imagine what their
design was; hut heing willmg to he sure, we look this
OF ROMNSON CRUSOE.
to hand diwn arms and ammunition to those that
were at work to defend themselves with if there should
he occasion; and it was no more than need . for, in
less than a quarter of an hour's consultation, they
agreed, it seems, that the ship was really a wreck ; thai
we were all at work endeavouring to save her, or to
save our lives hy the help of our hoats; and when we
handed our arms into the hoats, they concluded hy that
motion that we were endeavouring to save some of
our goods Upon this, they took it for granted they
all helonged to them, and away they came directly
upon our men, as if it had heen a line of (rattle
Our men seeing so many of them, hegan to he
frighted, for we lay hut in an ill posture to fi;ht, and
cried out to us to know what they should do? I imme-
diately called to the men who worked upon the stage*,
to slip them down and get up the side into the ship,
and hade those in the hoat to row round and come
on hoard; and those few of us that were on hoard
worked w ith all the strength and hands we had to hrirg
the ship to rights; hut. however,neither the men upon
the stage, nor those in the hoats, could do as they
were ordered, hefore the Cochinchinese were upon
them, and, with two of their hoats, hoarded our long-
hoat, and he^an to lay hold of the men as their pi>
OF ROMNSON CRUSOE.
The first man they laid hold of was an English sea*
man, a stout, strong fellow, who having a musket in

OF ROMNSON CRUSOE.
ate hand, never offered to fire it, hut laid it down in
Ihfl hoat, like a fool, as I thought. But he understood
his husiness hetter than I could teach him; for ha
grappled the Pagan, and dragged him hy main force
out of their own hoat into ours: where, taking him
hy the two ears, he heat his head so against the boat'i
gunnel, that the fellow died instantly in his hands;
And, in the mean time, a Dutchman, who stood next,
ook up the musket, and with the hut end of it so laid
ahout him, that he knocked down five of them who
attempted to enter the hoat . But this was little to-
wards resisting thirty or forty men, who, fearles, he-
cause ignorant of their danger, hegan to throw them-
selves into the long-hoat, where we had hut five men
to defend it. But one accident gave our men a com-
plete victory, which deserved our laughter rather than
any thing else, and that was this:—
Our carpenter heing prepared to grave the outside
of the ship, as well as to pay the seams where he had
caulked her to stop the leaks, had got two kettles just
let down into the hoat; one filled with hoiling pitch,
and the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and such
stuff as the shipwrights used for that work; and the
man that tended the carpenter had a great iron ladle
n his hand, with which he supplied the men that were
at work with that hot stuff: two of the enemy's men
entered the hoat just where this fellow stood, heing in
the fore-sheets; he immediately saluted them with a
ladleful of the stuff, hoiling hot, which so hurnt and
scalded them, heing half naked, that they roared out
like two hulls, and enraged with the fire, leaped hoth
into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out
u Well done, Jack, give them some more of itwhen
Steppmg forward himself, he takes one of their mops
and dipping it in the pitch pot, he and his man threw
it among them so plentifully, that, in short, of all the
men in three hoats, there was not one that was noi
scalded and hurnt with it in a most frightful, pitiful
manner, and made such a howling and crying, that 1
never heard a worse noise, and, indeed, nothing like
K . for it is worth ohserving, that though pain natu-
ral v makes ail people cry out, yet every nation have
a particular way of exclamation, and make noises as
different from one another as their speerh. I cannot
•ive the noise these creatures made a hetter name than
howling, nor a name more proper to the tone of it;
for I never heard any thing more like the noise of the
wolves, which, as I have said, I heard howl in the
forest, on the frontiers of Languedoc.
I was never pleased with a victory hetter in my
life; not only as it was a perfect surprise to me, and
that our danger was imminent hefore , hut as we got
this victory without any hloodshed, except of that man
the fellow killed with his uaked hands, and which I
was very much concerned at; for I was sick of kill-
ing such- poor savage wretches, even though it was m
my own defence, knowing they came on errands
which they thought just, and knew no hetter; and thai
though it may he a just thing, hecause necessary, for
Uiere is no necessary wickedness in nature; yet I
thought it was a sad life, when we must he always
ohliged to he killing our fellow creatures to preserve
ourselves; and, indeed, I think so still; and I would,
even now, suffer a great deal, rather than 1 would
take away the life even of the worst person injuring
me. I helieve, also, all considering people, who know
the value of life, would he of my opinion, if they en-
tered seriously into the consideration of it.
But to return to my story. All the while this was
doing, my partner and I, who managed the rest of the
men on hoard, had with great dexterity hrought
the ship almost to rights; and, having gotten the guns
fnto their places again, the gunner caller! to me to hid
wr hoat get out of the way, for he would let fly among
them. I called hack again to him, and hid him not
after to fire, for the carpenter would do the work
without him: hut hade him heat another pitch kettle,
which our cook, who was on hoard, took care of Rut
the enemy was so terrified with what they met with
kk their first attack, that they would not come uo
•gain ; and some of them that were farthest off, seeing
•he ship swim, as it were, upright, hegan, as we sup-
posed, to see their mistake, and gave over the enter-
prise, finding it was not as they expected. Thus we
got clear of this merry fight; and having gotten some
rice, and some roots and hread, with ahout sixteeo
good hig hogs on hoard two days hefore, we resolved
to stay here no longer, hut go forward, whatever
came of it; for we made no douht hut we should he
surrounded the next day with rogues enough, perhaps
more than our pitch-kettle would dispose of for us.
We therefore got all our things on hoard the same
evening, and the next morning were ready to sail. Id
the meantime, lying at an anchor some distance from
the shore, we were not so much concerned, heing now
In a fighting posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if
any. enemy had presented. The next nay, having
finished our work within hoard, and finding our ship
was perfectly healed of all her leaks, we set sail, wo
would have gone into the hay of Tonquin, for we
wanted to inform ourselves of what was to he known
concerning the Dutch ships that had heen there; hut
we durst not stand in there, hecause we had seen se-
veral ships go in, as we supposed, hut a little hefore;
so we kept on N. E. toward the isle of Formosa, as
much afraid of heing seen hy a Dutch or English
merchant-ship, as a Dutch or English merchant-ship in
the Mediterranean is of an Algerine man of war.
When we were thus got to sea, we kept on N. E
as if we would go to the Manillas or the Philippine
islands, and this we did, that wo might not fall into
the way of any of the European ships; and then we
steered north again, till we came to the latitude of 2?
degrees 20 minutes, hy which means we made the
Island of Formosa directly, where we came to an
anchor, in order to get water and fresh provisions,
which the people there, who are very courteous and
civil in their manners, supplied us with willingly, and
dealt very fairlv and punctually with us in all theit
215


Agreements and hargains, which is what wi aid not
fmd among other people, and may he owing to the re-
mains of Christianity, which was once planted here hy
a Dutch mission nf Protestants, and is a testimony of
what 1 have often ohserved, viz. that the Christian
religion always civilises the people and reforms their
manners, where it is Retived, whether it works sav-
ing effects upon them or not
From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast
of China at an equal distance, till we knew we weta
heyond all the ports of China where our EuropeaW *
ships usually come; hut hemg resolved, if possihle,
not to fall into any of their hands, especially in tink
country, where, as our circumstances were, we could
OK ROBINSON CRUSOE.
my fear in particular, as to my heing taken hy them*
that I helieve firmly I would much rather have chosen
to fall mto the hands of the Spanish Inquisition.
Being now come to the latitude of 30 degrees, we
resolved to put into the first tradmg port we should
come at, and standing in for the shore, a hoat came
oft two leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot od
hoard, who, knowing us to he an European ship,
came to offer his service, which indeed we were very
glad of, and took him on hoard; upon which, without
asking us whither we would go, he dismissed the hoat
he came in, and sent it hack.
I thought it was now so much in our choice to make
the old man carry us whither we would, that I hegan
to talk with him ahout carrymg us to the gulf of Nan-
quin, which is the most northern part of the coast of
China. The old man said he knew the gulf of Nan-
quin very well; hut smiling, asked us what we would
ao there?
I told himive would sell our cargo, and purchase
China wares, calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks,
eVc. and so would return hy the same course we came.
He told us our hest port had heen to have put in at
""where we could not fail of a maiket for our

opium to our satisfaction, and might, for our money,
have purchased all sorts of China goods as cheap as
we could at Nanquin.
Not heing ahle to put the old man out of his talk,
qf which he was very opinionated, or conceited, I
bold him we were gentlemen, as well as merchants,
and that we had a mind to go and see the great city
of Pekin, and the famous court of the monarchs of
China. "Why then," says the old man, " you should
go to Ningpo, where, hy the river that runs into the
£:a there, you may go up within five leagues of the
great canal. This canal is a navigahle made stream,
which goes through the heart of that vast empire of
China, crosses all the rivers, passes some considerahle
hills hy the help of sluices and gates, and goes up to
the city of Pekin, heing in length near two hundred
and seventy leagues."
"Well," said I, "Seignior Portuguese, hut that is
not our husiness now; the great question is, if you can
carry us up to the city of iVanquin, from whence we
can travel to Pekin afterwards?" Yes, he said, ha
could do so very well, and there was a great Dutch
ship gone that way just hefore. This gave me a
little shock; a Dutch ship was now our terror, and we
had much rather have met the devil, at least if he had
not come in too frightful a figure; we depended upon
it that a Dutch ship would he our destruction, for we
were in no condition to 5ght them; all the ships they
trade with in ihose parts, heing of great hurden, and of
much greater force than we were.
The old man found me a little confused, and under
some concern, when he named a Dutch ship; and said
to me, " Sir, you need he under no apprehensions of
the Dutch; I suppose they are not now at war with
your nation"—"No," said I, "that's true: hut 1
know not what liherties men may take when they ant
out of the reach of the laws of their country."—
"Why," said he, " you are no pirates, what need
9/mi fear; they will not meddle with peaceful mat-
chants, sure.'"
If I had any hlood in my hody that did not fly up
mto my face at that word' it was hindered hy soma
stop tn the vessels appointed hy nature to circutate tt;
for tt put me into the greatest dtsorder and confusiou
imaginahle: rar was it possihle fot me to conceal it
so, hut that the old man easily perceived it.
"Sir," sa.d he, " 1 find you are in some disorder in
four thoughts at my tjtlk; pray he pleased to go wh:ch
way y,ru th:nk fit, and depend u|>on it I'll do you al
trie service I can."—•* Why, Setgnior," said lt " it is
true, I am a ltttle unsettled tn my resolution at this
time, whether to go in particular; and 1 am something
more so for what you said ahout pirates. I hope there
are no pirates in these seas. we are hut in an ill con-
dition in meet with them, for you see we have hut a
smatl force, and very weakly manned"
"O Sir," said he, "do not he concerned; 1 do not
know that there have heen any pirates in these seas
these fifteen years, except one, which was seen, as I
hear, in the lay of Sunn, ahout a month since: hut
ynu may he assured she is gone to the southward; nor
was she a sh:p of any great force, or fit for the workt
sste was not hoilt for a prtvateer, hut was runaway
with hy a reprohate crew that were on hoard, aftar
the captain and some of his men had heen murdered
hy the Malaccans, at or near the island of Sumatra.s
u What!" sa:d 1, seeming to know nothing of the
matter, "did they murder the captain ?"—'' No, s
sa:d he, " 1 do not understand that they murdered
him; hut as they afterwards ran away with the ship, it
Is generally Itelieved they Iwtrayed hmi into the hands
•f the Malaccans, who did murder him; and, per-
haps, they procured them to do it."—" Why then.*
said 1, '' they deserved death, as much as if they had
done it themseiven."—'' :Nay," said the old man,
'' they do deserve :t, and they will certainly have it, if
they light upon any Knglieh or Dutch ship; for they
have all agreed tugethet. that if they meet that rogua
ttM.'v will give hint no quarter."
"But," said 1 to him, " you say the p:rate ts gotm

out of these seas; how can they meet with him then ?*
—" Why, that is true/* said he," they do say so;
hut he was, as 1 tell you, in the hay of Siam, in the Ij
river Camhodia, and was discovered there hy soma s
Dutchmen who helonged to the ship, and who were c
left on shore when they ran away with her; and some S
English and Dutch traders heing in the river, they 5
were within a little of taking him. Nay," said he?
• if the foremost hoats had heen well seconded hy th 2
rest, they had certainly taken him; hut he, finding?
only two hoats within reach of him, tacked ahout, 5
and fired at these two, and disahled them hefore the <
others came up; and then standing off to sea, the 2
others were not ahle to follow him, and so he got >
away. But they have all so exact a description of the 3
5 ship, that thev will he sure to know him; and where- ,j
s ever they finn* him, they have vowed to give no quar- J
j ter to either the captain or the seamen, hut to hang >
5 them all up at the yard-arm." s
J "What!" said I, " will they execute them, right 5
< or wrong; hang them first, and judge them after- i
I wards?"—" O sir!" said the old pilot, " there is no 5
> need to make a formal husiness of it with such roguca <
s a* those; let them tie them hack to hack, and set them i
c a-diving; it is no more than they rightly deserve."?
d 1 knew 1 had my old man fast ahoard, and that ha i
> could do me no harm ; so I turned short upon him. 2
< •Well, Seignor." said I," and this is the very rea-?
? soi' why I would have you carry us to Nanquin, and 5
? not to put hack to Macao, or to any other part of the \
S country where the English or Dutch ships came; fot £
c he it known to you, Seignor, those captains of the
? Knghsh and Dutch ships are a parcel of rash, proud
i insolent fellows, that neither know what helongs to
5 justice, or how to hehave themselves as the laws of
3 God and nature direct; hut hemg proud of theit
and not understanding their power, they would
j! act the murderers to punish rohhers: would take upon
,J ihem to insult men falsely accused, and
Ihem guilty without due inquiry; and perhaps I may
live tu call some of them to an account of it, when.
[hey may he taught how justice is to he executed; and
that no man ought to he treated as a criminal till somfi
evidence may he had of the crime, and that he is tho
nan."
With this I told him, that this was the very ship they
had attacked; and gave him a full account of theskir-
aiish we had with their hoats, and how foolishly and
coward-like they had hehaved. I told him all the
story of our huymg the ship, and how the Dutchman
served us. 1 told him the reasons I had to helieve
that this story of killing ihe master hy the Malaccana
was not true; as also the running away with the ship t
hut that it was all a fiction of their own, to suggest
that the men were turned pirates; and they ought to
have heen sure it was so, hefore they had ventured to
attack us hy surprise, and ohlige us to resist them (
adding, that they would have the hlood of those men
who were killed there, in our just defence, to answer
for.
The old man was amazed at this relation : and told
us, we were very much in the right to go away to the
north: and that if he might advise us, it should he to
sell the ship m China, which we might very well do,
and huy or huild another it the country; " And,"
said he, " though you will not get so good a ship, yet
you may get one ahle enough to carry you and all your
goods hack again to Bengal, or any where else."
1 told him 1 would take his advice when'l came to
any port where 1 could find a ship for my turn, or get
any customer to huy this. He replied, I should meet
with customers enough for the ship at Nanquin, and
hat a Chinese junk would serve me very well to eB
hack again; and that he would procure me people
hoth to huy one and sell the other.
"Well, hut. Seignior," says I, " as you say they
know the ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I follow
your measures, he instrumental to hring some honest,
•nuoceut men into a terrihle hroil, and, perhaps, he
murdered in cold hlood, for wherever they find the
il ip they will prove the guilt upon the men hy prov-
ing this was the ship, and so innocent men may pro-
hahly he overpowered and murdered."—" Why," said
Ihe old man, " I'll find out a way to prevent ihat
also; for as I know all those commanders you s\ieak
of very well, and shall see them all as they pass hy, I
will he sure to set them to rights in the thing, and let
them know that they had heen so much in the wrong;
Uiat though the people who were on hoard at first
might run away with the ship, yet it was not true tha'
they had turned pirates; and that in particular those
were not the men that first went off with the ship, hut
innocently hought her for their trade; and I am per
euaded they will so far helieve me, as, at least, to act
more cautiously for the time to come."—" Well," said
i, "and will you deliver one message to them from
me?"—"Yes, I will," says he, " if you will give it
under your hand, in writing, that I mayhe ahle to
prove it came from you, and not out of my own
head." I answered, that I would readtly give it him
under my hand. So I took a pen and ink, and paper,
and wrote at large the story of assaulting me with the
long hoats, \ c. the pretended reason of it, and the
unjust, cruel design of it; and concluded to the com-
manders that they had done what they not only should
have heen ashamed of, hut also, that if ever they came
to England, and I lived to see them there, they should
all pay dearly for it, if the laws of my country were
not grown.out of use hefore 1 arrived there.
My old pilot read this over and over again, anj
asked me several times if 1 would stand to it . I an
sw*red, 1 would stand to it so long as 1 had any thing
left in the world; heing sensihle that 1 should, on*
time or other, find an opportunity to put it home to
them. But we had no occasion ever to let the pilo1
carry this letter,for he never wentJnck again. While
those things were passing hetweerr us, hv way of di*
course, we went forward directly for Nanquin, an \
tn ahout thirteen days sail, came to atienor at it*
sooth west point of the great gulf of Nanquin; when)
the way, 1 came hy accident to understand, that
two Dutch ships were gone that length hefore me,
and that I should certainly fall into their hands. I
consulted my partner again in this exigency, and hv
was as much at a loss as I was, and would very gladly
have heen safe on shore almost any where. How-
ever, 1 was not in such perplexity neither, hut I asked
the old pilot if there was no creek or harhour, which
I might put into, and pursue my husiness with the
Chinese privately, and he in no danger of the enemy.
He told me if I would sail to the southward ahout
two-and-forty leagues, there was a little port called
Quinchang. where the fathers of the m:ssion usually
landed from Mac.no. on their progress to teach theChris-
tion religion to the Chinese, and where no European
ships ever put in: and, if I thought proper to put in
there, 1 might consider what farther course to take
when I was on shore. He confessed, he said, it was
not a place for merchants, except that at some certain
times they had a kind of a fair there, when the mer-
chants from Japan came over thither to huy the Chiness
merchandises.
We all agreed to go hack to this place: the name
of the port- as he called it, I may, perhaps, spell
wrong, for I do not particularly rememher it, having
lost this, together with the names of maay other places
set down in a little ixxket hook, which was spoiled hy
the water, on an accident which I shall relate in its
order; hut this I rememher, that the Chinese or
Japanese merchants we correspond with, call it hy a
different name from that whicli our Portuguese pilot
gave it, and pronounced it as ahove, Quinchang.
As we were unanimous in our resolutions to go to
(his place, we weighed the next day. having only gona
twice on shore, where we were to get fresh water; on
hoth which occasions the people of the country were
very civil to us, and hrought us ahundance of things
to sell to us; I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea,
ri•s a»d wne fowls; hut nothing w:thout money.
We came to the other port (the wind heing con-
trary) not till five days; hut it was very much to ouf
satisfaction, and f was joyful, and 1 may say thank-
ful, when I set my foot safe on shore, resolving, and
my partner too, that if it was possihle to dispose of
ourselves and effects any other way, though not every
way to our satisfaction, we would never set one foot
on hoard that unhappy vessel again: and indeed I
must acknowledge, that of all the circumstances of Ufa
that ever 1 had any experience of, nothing makes
mankind so completely miserahle as that of heing in
constant fear. Well does the Scripture say, "The
fear of man hrings a snare;" it is a life of death, and
the mind is so entirely suppressed hy it, that it is ca-
pahle of no relief; the animal spirits sink, and all the
vigour of nature, which usually supports men under
other afflictions, and is present to them in the greatest
exigencies, fails them here
Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the
fancy, hy heightening every danger; representing tJ.a
English and Dutch captains to he men incapahle of
hearing reason, or distinguishing hetween honest men
and rogues; or hetween a story calculated for our own
turn, made out of nothing, on purpose to decieve, and
a true genuine account of our whole voyage, progress,
and design: for we might many ways have convinced
any reasonahle creature that we were not pirates: tite
goods we had on hoard, the course wo steered, our
frankly showing ourselves, and entering into such and
such ports: even our very manner, the force we had,
the numher of men, the few amis, little ammumtion,
and short provisions; oil these would have served io
convince any man that we were no pirates. Th•
opium, and other goods we had on hoard, would
make it appear that the ship had heen at Bengal: the
Dutchman, who it is said, had the names of all ilia
men that were in the ship, might easily see that we
were a mixture of English, Portuguese, and Indiana,
and hut two Dutchmen on hoard. These, and many
ithei particular circumstances, might have made it
evident to the understanding of any commander, whose
hands we might fall into, that we were no pirates.
But fear, thai hlind useless passion, worked another
way, and threw us into the vapours; it hewildered
our understandings, and set the imaginations to work,
to fonn a thousand terrihle things, that, perhaps, might
never happen. We first supposed, as indeed every
hody that related to us, that the seamen on hoard the
English and Dutch ships, hut especially the Dutch,
were so enraged at the name of a pirate, and especi-
ally at our heatmg otf their hoats, and escaping, that
they would not give themtelves leave to inquire
whether we were pirates or no; hut would execute us
oft-hand, as we call it, without giving us any room fot
a defence. We reflected that there was really so much
apparent evidence hefore them, that they would scarce
inquire after any more: as, first, that the ship was cer-
tainly the same, and thai some of the seamen among
them knew her, and had heen on hoard her; and,
secondly, that when we had intelligence at the river
Camhodia, that they were coming down to examine
us, we fought their hoats, and fled: so that we made
no douht hut they were as fully satisfied, of our heing
pirates as we were satisfied of the contrary; and I
often said, I knew not hut I should have heen apt to
have taken the like circumstances for evidence, if the
tahles were turned, and my case was theirs; and have
made no scruple of cutting all the crew to pieces,
without helieving, or perhaps considering, what they
might have to offer in their defence.
But let that he how it will, those were our appre-
hensions ; and hoth my partner and 1 too scarce slept
a night without dreaming of halters and yard-arms;
that is to say,gihhets; of fighting, and heing taken ,
of killing, and heing killed; and one night, I was'in
such a fury in my dream, fancying the Dutchmen had
hoarded us, and I was knocking one of their seaman
down, that I struck my douhle ti-i against the side of-
the cahin I lav m, with such a force as wounded my
raua most grievously, hroke my knuckles, and cut and
hruiser! the flesh, so that it not only waked me out of
my sleep, hut 1 was once afraid I should have lost
two of my fingers.
Another apprehension I had, was, of the cruel usage
we should meet with from them, if we fell mto their
hands: then the story of Amhoynacame into my head,
and how the Dutch might, perhaps, torture us, as they
. did our countrymen there: ana make some of our
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
they never were gmlty of; own themselves, and all of
us, to he pirates; and so they would put us to death,
with a formal appearance of justice; and that they
might he tempted to do this for the gain of our ship
and cargo, which was worth four or five thousand
pounds, put all together.
These things tormented me, and my partner too,
night and day; nor did we consider that the captaini
of ships have no authority to act thus; and if we had
surrendered prisoners to them, they could not answer
the destroying us, or torturing us, hut would he ac-
countahle for it when they came into their own coun-
try. This, I say, gave me no satisfaction; for, if they
will act thus with us, what advantage would it he to
us that they would he called to an account for it? or,
if we were first to he murdered, what satisfaction
would it he to us to have them punished when they
came home?
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
I now had upon the past variety of my particular cir-
cumstances; how hard I thought it was, that I, who
had spent forty years in a life of continued difficulties,
and was at last come, as it were, at the port or haven
which all men drive at, viz. to have rest and plenty,
should he a volunteer in new so'mws, hy my own un-
happy choice: and that I, who had escaped so many
dangers in my youth, should now come to he hanged
in my old age, and in so remote a place, for a crime I
was not in the least inclined to, much less guilty of;
and in a place and circumstance, where innocence wat
not like to he any protection at all to me.
225
Afl« these thoughts, something of religion would
.ome in; and 1 would he considering that this seemed
lo me to he a disposiuon of immediate Providence;
and I ought to look upon it, and suhmit to it as such-
Ihat although 1 was innocent as to men, I was far from
heing mnocent as to my Maker , and I ought to look
in, and examme what other crimes in my life were
most ohvious to me, and for which Providence might
iustly inflict this punishment as a retrihution ; and that
f ought to suhmit to this, just as I would to a ship-
wreck, if it had pleased God to have hrought such a
disaster upon me.
In its turn, natural courage would sometimes take
its place; and then I would he talking myself up to
rigorous resolution, that 1 would not he taken to he
harharously used hy a parcel of merciless wretches in
cold hlood ; that it was much hetter to have fallen
Into the hands of the savages, who were men-eaters,
and who. 1 was sure, would feast upon me, when they
had taken me, than hy those who would perhaps glut
their rage upon me hy inhuman tortures and harhari-
ties that, in the case of the savages, I always resolved
tn die fightmg to the last gasp; and why should 1 not
do so now, seeing it was much more dreadful, to me
at least, to think of falling into these men'shands, than
ever it was to think of heing eaten hy men? for the
savages, give them their due, would not eat a man till
he was dead ; and killed him first, as we do a hullock;
but that these men had many arts heyond the cruelty
of death. Whenever these thoughts prevailed I was
sure to put myself into a kind of fever, with the agita-
tions of a supposed fight ; my hlood would hoil, and
my eyes sparkle, as if 1 was engaged; and I always
resolved that I would take no quarter at their hands;
hut even at last, if I could resist no longer, I would
hlow up the ship, and all that was in her, and leave
them hut little hooty to hoast of.
But hyjiow much the greater weight the anxieties
and perplexities of those things were to our thoughts
while we were at sea, hy so much the greater was out
Vol. U.—
sausfaction when we saw ourselves on shore; and my
partner told me lie dreamed that he had a very heavy
Jnad upon his hack, which he was to carty up a hill,
and found that he was not ahle to stand long under it;
hut the Portuguese pilot came, and took itoffthcir hack,
and the hill disappeared, the ground hefore him show-
ing all smooth and plain; and truly it was so; wa
were all like men who had a load taken off their hacks.
For my part, I had a weight taken off from my
heart, that I was not ahle any longer to hear; and as
I said ahove, we resolved to go no more to sea in that
ship. When we came on shore, the old pilot, who
was now our friend, got us a lodging, and a warehouse
for our goods, which, hy the way, was much the same:
it was a little house, or hut wifh a large house joining
to it, all huilt with canes, and palisadoed round with
large canes, to keep out pilfering thieves, of which it
seems there were not a few in the country. However,
the magistrates allowed us all a little guard, and we rad
a soldier with a kind of halhert, or half-pike, wht
stood sentinel at our door, to whom we allowed a pint
of rice, and a little piece of money, ahout the value ot
throe-pence, per day; so that our goods were kepi
very safe.
The fair or mart usually kept in this place had heen
over some time; however, we found that there were
three or four junks in the river, and two Japanners, I
mean ships from Japan, with goods which they had
hought in China, and were not gone away, having
Japanese merchants on shore.
The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for m
was to hring us acquainted with three missionary Ro-
mish priests, who were in the town, and who had
heen there some time, converting the people to Chris-
tianity; hut we thought they made hut poor work of
K, and made them hut sorry Christians when they had
done. However that was not our husiness. One of
these was a Frenchman, whom they called Faihet
Simon; he was a jolly well-conditioned man, very
227
r
free in his conversation, not seeming so serious and
grave as the other two did, one of whom was a Pop
tuguese, and the other a Genoese: hut Father Simon
was courteous, easy in his manner, and very agreeahle
company; the other two were more reserved, seemed
rigid and austere, and applied seriously to the work
they came ahout, viz. to talk with, and insinuate them-
seives among the inhahitants wherever they had oppor-
tumty. We often ate and drank with ihose men : and
though I must confess, the conversion, as they call it,
of the Chinese to Christianity, is so far from the true
conversion required to hring heathen people totha
faith of Christ, that it see ms to amount to little more
than letting them know the name of Christ, say some
prayers to the Virgin Mary and her Son, in a tongue
which they understand not, and to cross themselves,
and the like ; yet it must he confessed that these reli-
gious, whom we call missionaries, have a firm helief
that those people should he saved, and that they ant
the instrument of it; and, on this account, they under-
f;o not only the fatigue of the voyage, and hazards of
iving in such places, hut oftentimes death itself, with
the most violent tortures, for the sake of this work:
and it would he a great want of charity in us, what-
ever opimon we have of the work itself, and the man-
ner of their doing it, if we should not have a good opi-
nion of their zeal, who undertake it with so many haz-
ards, and who have no prospect of the least temporal
advantage to themselves.
But to return to my story: This French priest,
Father Simon, was appointed, it seems, hy order of
the chief of the mission, to go up to Pekin, the royal
seat of the Chinese emperor; and waited only for
smothor priest, who was ordered to come to him from
Macao, to go along with him; and we scarce ever
met together hut he was inviting me to go that jour-
ney with him, telling me, how he would show me ali
the glorious things of that mighty empire ; and among
tne rest, the greatest city in the world ; " A city," said
he, "that your l,ondon and our Paris put together

cannot he equal to." This was the city of Peking
which, I confess, is very great, and infimtely full of
people: hut as I looked on those things with different
eyes from other men, so 1 shiJl give my opinion of
them in few words, when I come, in the course of my
travels, to speak more particularly of them.
But first I come to my friar or missionary: dining
with him one day, and heing very merry together, I
showed some little inclination to go with him; and he
pressed me and my partner very hard, and with a
treat many persuasions, to consent "Why, Father
Simon," says my partner, " why should you'desire
our company so much? Vou know we are heretics,
and yon do not love us, nor can keep us company
with any pleasure."—" O !" says he, "you may, per-
haps, he good Catholics in time; my husiness here is
to convert heathens, and who knows hut I may con-
vert you too'"—" Very well, Father," said I, "so
you will preach to us all the way."—" I won't he
trouhlesome to you," said he, " our religion does not
divest us of good manners; hesides," said he, " we
are all here like countrymen, and so we are, compared
to the place we are in; and if you are Hugonois, and
I a Catholic, we mav he all Christians at last; at least,"
said he, " we are all gentlemen, and we may converse
so, without heing uneasy to one another." f liked that
part of his discourse very well, and it hegan to put ma
m mind of my priest that I had left in the Brasils;
hut this Father Simon did not come up to his charac-
ter hy a great deal; for though Father Simon had no
appearance of a criminal levity in him neither, yet he
had not that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety, and
sincere affection to religion that my other good eccle-
siastic had, of whom I have said so much.
But to leave him a little, though he never lef1 us,
nor soliciting us to go with him, hut we had something
else hefore us at that time: for we had all this while
our ship and our merchandise to dispose of; and wa
hegan to he very douhtful what we shouid do; forwa
were now in a place of very little husiness, and once
I was ahout to venture to sail for the rivei of Ki1anv
and the city of Nanquin: hut Providence seemed now
more visihle, as 1 thought, than ever, to concern itself
in our affairs; and I was encouraged from this very
time to think I should, one way or other, get out of
this entangled circumstance, and he hrought home to
my own country again, though I had not the least
view of the manner; and when 1 hegan sometimes to
think of it, could not imagine hy what method it was
to he done. Providence, I say, hegan here to clear
up our way a little; and the first thing that offered
was, that our old Portuguese pilot hrought a Japan
merchant to us, who hegan to inmiire what goods we
hail; and, in the first place, he hought all our opium,
and gave tis a very good price for it, paying us in gold
hy weight, some in small pieces of their own coin,
and some in small wedges, of aho'it ten or eleven
ounces each. While we were dealing with him for
our opium, it came into my head, that he might, per-
haps, deal with us for the ship too: and 1 ordered the
interpreter to propose it to him. He shrunk up hit
shoulders at it, when it was first proposed to him ; hut
in a few days after, he came to me, with one of the
missionary priests for his interpreter, and told me he
had a proposal to make to me, and that was this: he
had hought a great quantity of goods of us when he
had no thoughts (or proposals made to him) of huying
the ship, and that, therefore, he had not money enough
to pay for the ship; hut if 1 would let the same men
who were hi the ship navigate her, he would hire the
ship to go to Japan, and would send them from thence
to the Philippine islands with another loading, which
he would pay the freight of hefore they went from
Japan; and that, at their return, he would huy the
ship. I hesan to listen to his proposal; and so eager
did my head stdl run upon ramhlmg, that I could not
hut hegin to entertain a notion myself of going with
him, and so to sail from the Philippine islands away
to the South Stas; and accordingly I asked the Ja-
panese merchai t if he would not hire us to the Philip-
pine islands, and discharge us there. He said, no, he
could not do that, for then he could not have the return
of Ms cargo; hut he would discharge us in Japan, ha
•aid, at the ship's return. Well, still I was for taking
him at that proposal, and going myself; hut my part-
ner, wiser than myself, persuaded me from it, repie-
•enting the dangers, as well of the seas, as of the Ja-
panese, who are a false, cruel, treacherous people;
and then of the Spaniards at the Philippines, more
false, more cruel, more treacherous than they.
But, to hrmg this long turn of our affairs to a com-
elusion, the first thing we had to do was to consult
with the captain of the ship, and with the men, and
know if they were willing to go to Japan; and, while
I was doing this, the young man whom, as I said, my
nephew had left with me as my companion for my
travels, came to me and told me that he thought that
voyage promised very fair, and that there was a great
prospect of advantage, and he would he very glad if I
undertook it ; hut that if I would not, and would give
him leave, he would go as a merchant, or how I pleas
ed to order him; and if ever he came to England, and
I was there, and alive, he would render me a faithful
account of his success, and it should he as much mine
as I pleased.
I was really loath to part with him; hut consider
mg the prospect of advantage, which was really con-
siderahle, and that he was a young fellow as likely to
do well in it as any 1 knew, t inclined to let him go;
hut first I told him, I would consult my partner, and
gi/e him an answer the next day. My partnei and I
discoursed ahout it, and my partner made a most ge-
nerous offer he told me, " You know it has heen an
unlucky ship, and we hoth resolve not to go to sea in
£ again; if your steward (so he called my man) will
venture the voyage, I'll leave my share of the vessel to
him, and let him make the hest of it; and if we live
io meet in England, and he meets with success ahroad,
£» LIFE AND ADVENTURES
freight to us, the other shall he his own."
If my partner, who was no way concerned with
tny young man, made him such an offer, I could do
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 551
company heing willing to go with him, we made over
half the ship to him m property, and took a writing
from him, ohliging him to account for the other;
and away he went to Japan. The Japan merchant
proved a very punctual honest man to him, protected
him at Japan, and got him a licence to come on shore,
which the Europeans in general have not lately oh-
tained, paid him his freight very punctually, sent him
to the Philippines, loaded him with Japan and China
wares, and a supercargo of their own, who traffick-
ing with the Spaniards, hrought hack European goods
agam, and a great quantity of cloves and other spice;
and there he was not only paid his freight very well,
and at a very good price, hut heing not willing to
sell the ship then, the merchant furnished him with
goods on his own account; that for some money and
nme spices of his own, which he hrought with him,
he went hack to the Manillas, to the Spaniards, wher*
he sold his cargo very well. Here, having gotten a
good aquaintance at Manilla, he got his ship made
a free ship; and the governor of Manilla hired him to
go to Acapulco, in America, on the coast of Mexico;
and Rave him a licence to land there, and travel to
Mexico; and to pass in any Spanish ship to Europe,
with all his men.
He made the voyage to Acapulco very happily,
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 551
tained allowance to travel hy land to Porto Bello, he
found means, some how or other, to go to Jamaica
with all his treasure; and ahout eight years after came
to England, exceeding rich; of which I shall take
notice in its place; in the mean time, I return to our
particular affairs.
Being now to part with the ship and ship's com-
pany, it came hefore us, of course, to consider what
r* ompense we should give to the two men that gave
to such timely notice of the design against us in the
i^vtff of Caitthodia- The truth was, they had dona
Us a considerahle service, and deserved well at our
hand; though, hy the way, they were a couple of
rogues too; for, as they helieved the story of our he-
ing pirates, and that we had really run away with trrt
»hip, they came down to us, not only to hetray thei
de«igu that was formed against us, hut to go to seat
with us as pirates; and one of them confessed after
wards, that nothing else hut the hopes of going a-rogue-
ing hrought him to do it . However, the service they
did us was not the less; and, therefore, as I had pro-
mised to he grateful to them, I first ordered the mo-
ney to he paid to them, which they said was due to
them on hoard their respective ships; that is to say,
the Englishman nineteen months pay, and to the
Dutchman seven; and, over and ahove that, I gave
aach of them a small sum of money in gold, wntch
contented them very well: then I made the English-
man gunner of the ship, the gunner heing now mads
second mate and purser: the, liutchman I made hoaU
twain: so they were hoth very well pleased, and
proved very serviceahle, heing hoth ahle seamen,
and very stout fellows.
We were now on shore in China. If I thought
myself hanished, and remote from my own country
at Bengal, where I had many ways to get home fof
my money, what could I think of myself now, when
1 was gotten ahout a thousand leagues farther off from
imme, and perfectly destitute of all manner of pros-
pect of return!
All we had for it was this, that in ahout four months
time there was to he another fair at that place where
we were, and then we might he ahle to purchase aQ
sorts of the manufactures of the country, and withal
might possihly find some Chinese junks or vessels
from Nnnquin, that would he to he sold, and would
carrv us and our goods whither we pleased This I
liked verv well, and resolved to wait; hesides, as our
particular persons were not ohnoxious, so if any En-
gliti or Dutch ships came thither, perhaps we might
have an opportunity to load our goods, and get pas-
sage to some other place in India nearer home.
Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here;
hut to divert ourselves, we took two or three jour-
neys into the country; first, we went ten days journey
to see tlie city of Nanquin, a city well worth seeing
indeed: they say it has a million of people in it |
which, however I do not helieve: it is regularly huilt,
the streets all exactly straight, and cross one anothei
in direct liues, which gives the figure of it great ad-
vantage.
But when I came to compare the miserahle peopla
of these countries with ours; their fahrics, their man-
ner of living, their government, their religion, theit
wealth, and their glory, (as some call it) I must con-
fess, f do not so much as think it worth naming, ox
worth my while to write of, or any that shall coma
after me to read.
it is very ohservahle, that we wonder at the gran-
deur, the riches, the pomp, the ceremonies, the go-
vernment, the manufactures, the commerce, and the
conduct of these people; not that they are to he won-
dered at, or indeed, in the least to he regarded; hut
hecause, having first a notion of the harharity of those
there, we do not expect to find any such things so
far off.
Otherwise, what are their huildings to the palaces
and royal huildings of Europe? What their trade to
the universal commerce of England, Holland, Franca
and Spain? What are their cities to ours, for wealth,
strength, gayety of apparel, rich furniture, and an infi
nite variety? What are their ports, supplied with a
feu- junks and harks, to our navigation, our merchants'
fleets, our large and powerful navies? Our city of
London has more trade than all their mighty empire*
One English, or Dutch, or French man of war, of
eighty guns, would fight with and destroy all the ship-
pins; of China Rut the greatness of their wealth,
their trade, the power of their government, and strength

that prevail
of their armies are surprising to us, hee a use,'as I have
taid, considering them as a harharous nation of pa-
gans, little hetter than savages, we did not expect such
things among them; and this, indeed, is the advan-
tage with which all their greatness and power is re-
presented to us: otherwise, it is in itself nothing at
all: for, as I have said of their ships, so it may h4
said of their armies and troops; all the forces of theii
empire, though they were to hring two n.illions of
men into the field together, would he ahle to do no-
thing hut ruin the country and starve themselves. If
they were to hesiege a strong town in Flanders, or ttf
fight a disciplined army, one Iine of German cuiras-
siers, or of French cavalry, would overthrow all the
horse of China; a million of their foot could not stand
hefore one emhattled hody of our infantry, posted so
as not to he surrounded, though they were not to ho
sue to twenty in numher: nay, I do not hoast if I
say, that 30,000 German or English font, and 10,000
French horse, would fairly heat all the forces of China.
And so of our fortified towns, and of the art of oui
engineers, in assaulting and defending towns; there
is not a fortified town in China could hold out one
month against the hatteries and attacks of a European
army; and at the same time, all the armies of China
could never take such a town as Dunkirk, provided
it was not starved: no, not in ten years siege. They
have fire-arms, it is true, hut they are awkward,
clumsy, and uncertain in going off; they have pow-
der, hut it is of no strength ; they have neither discW
pline in the field, exercise in their arms, skill to attack,
nor temper to retreat. And therefore I must confess
it seemed strange to me when I came home, and
neard our people say such fine things of the power,
riches, glory, magnificence, and trade of the Chinese,
hecause I saw and knew that they were a contempti-
hle herd or crowd of ignorant, sordid slaves, suhjected
to a government qualified only to rule such a people;
and, in a word, for I am now launched quite hesidt
my design, I say, in a word, were not its distanoa
235
mconceivahly great from Muscovy, and were not the
Muscovite empire almost as rude, impotent, and ill-
governed a crowd of slaves as they, the czar of Mus-
covy might, with much ease, drive them all out of their
country, and conquer them in one campaign; and
had the czar, who I since hear is a growing prince,
and hegins to appear formidahle in the world, fallen
this way, instead of attacking the warlike Swedes, in
which attempt none of the powers of Europe would
have envied or interrupted him; he might, hy this
time, have heen emperor of China, instead of heing
heaten hy the king of Sweden at Narva, when the lat-
ter was not one to six in numher. As their strength
and their grandeur, so their navigation, commerce,
and hushandry, are imperfect and impotent, compared
ledge, their learning, their skill in the sciences ; they
have glohes and spheres, and a smatch of the know*
ledge of the mathematics; hut when you come to in-
quire into their knnlwedge, how short-sighted are the
wisest of their students! They know nothing of the
motion of the heavenly hodies; and so grossly, ah-
surdly ignorant, that when the sun is eclipsed, they
think it is a great dragon has assaulted and run away
with it; and they fall a-clattering with all the drums
and kettles in the country, to fright the monster
away, just as we do to hive a swarm of hees.
As this is the only excursion of this kind which I
have made in all the account I have given of my ua-
vels, so I shall make no more He scrip* ions of courv
tries and people: it is none of my husiness, or any
part of my design; hut giving an account of my own
adventures, through a life of infinite wanderings, and
a long variety of changes, which, perhaps, fear have
heard the like of, I shall say nothing of the mighty
places, desert countries, and numerous people, I have
yet to pass through, more than relates to my own
story, and which my concern among them will make
necessary. I was now, as near as 7 can compute, in
tbo heart of China, ahout the latitude of thirty do-

Also, in their know-
awes north of the line, for we were returned frnr
Iva/Rjuin; I had indeed a mind to see the city of Pa
kin, which I had heard so much of, and Father Simoa
importuned me daily to do it. At length his time of
gnir.g away heing set, and the other missionary who
was to go with him, heing arrived from Macao, it
was necessary that we should resolve either to go, of
not to go; so I referred him to my partner, and let
it wholly to his choice; who at length resolved it in ,
(he affirmative; and we prepared for our journey
We set out with very good advantage, as to finding the
way; for we got leave to travel in the retinue of ona
of their mandarins, a kind of viceroy, or principal
magistrate, in the province where they reside, and
who take great state upon them, travelling with great
attendance, and with great homage from the people,
who are sometimes greatly impoverished hy them,
hecause all the countries they pass through are ohliged
to furnish provisions for them and all their attendants.
That which 1 particularly ohserved, as to our travel-
ling with his haggage, was this; that though we re-
ceived sufficient provisions, hoth for ourselves and our
horses, from the country, as helonging to the mandarin,
yet we were ohliged to pay for every thing we had
after the market price of the country, and the manda-
rin's steward, or commissary of the provisions, col-
lected it duly from us; so that our travelling in the
retinue of the mandarin, though it was a very great
kindness to us, was not such a mighty favour in him,
hut was, indeed, a great advantage to him, consider-
ing there were ahout thirty other people travelling in
the same manner hesides us, under the protection of hut
retinue, or, as we may call it, under his convoy. This*
I say, was a great advantage to him; for the country
furnished all the provisions for nothing, and he took
all our money for them.
We were five and twenty days travelling to Fekin,
through a country infimtely populous, hut miserahly
tultivated; the hushandry, economy, and the way of
living, all very miserahle, though they hoast so ouch
or robinson ckusoe. 237
of the industry of the people: I say miserahle, and
bo it is; if we, who understand how to live, weie to
endure it, or to compare it with our own; hut not so
to these poor wretches, who know no other. The
ride of these people is infinitely great, and exceeded
y nothing hut tneir poverty, which adds to that
which I call their misery. I must needs think the
naked savages of America live much more happy, he-
cause, as they have nothing, so they desire nothing;
whereas these are proud and insolent, and, in the
main, are mere heggars and drudges; their ostenta-
tion is inexpressihle, and is chiefly snowed in their
clothes and huildings, and in the keeping multitudes of
servants or slaves, and, which is to the last degree
ridiculous, their contempt of all the world hut them-
selves.
I must confess, I travelled more pleasantly after-
wards, in the deserts and vast wilderness of Grand
Tartary, than here: and yet the roads here are well
Saved and well kept, and very convenient for travel-
ers, hut nothing was more awkward to me, than to
tee such a haughty, imperious, insolent people, in tlie
midst of the grossest simplicity and ignorance; for all
their famed ingenuity is no more. My friend, Father
Simon, and 1, used to he very merry on these oc-
casions, to see the heggarly pride of those people.
For example, coming hv the house of a country gen-
tleman, as Father Simon called him, ahout ten league*
off from the city of Naiupfm, we had, first of all,
the honour to ride with the master of the house ahout
two miles: the state he rode in was a perfect Doe
Quixotism, heing a mixture of pomp and poverty.
The hahit of this greasv Don, was very proper for a
scaramouch, or merry-andrew: heing a dirty calico,
with all the tawdry trappings of a fool's coat, such at
hanging sleeves, taffety. and cuts and slashes almost
on everv side: it covered a rich taffety vest, as greasy
as a hutcher, and which testified, that his honour must
needs he a most exquisite sloven.
His horse, was a poor, lean, starved hohhling crea
Of *
lure, such as in England might sell for ahout thirty
or forty shillings; ana he had two slaves followed nim
on foot, to drive the poor creature along: he had a
whip in his hand, and he helahoured the heast as fast
ahout the head as his slaves did ahout the tail; and
.f thus he rode hy us with ahout ten or twelve servants;
{ and we were told he was going U\aw the city to his
country-seat, ahout half a league hefore us. We tra
veiled on gently, hut this figure of a gentleman rode
away hefore us; and as we stopped at a village ahout
an hour to refresh us, when we came hy the country-
seat of this great man, we saw him in a little place
hefore his door, eating his repast; it was a kind of a
garden; hut he was easy to he seen; and we were
to understand, that the more we looked on him, the
hetter he would he pleased.
He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto
tree, which effectually shaded him over the head, and
on the south side; hut under the tree also was placed
a large umhrella, which made that part look well
enough: he sat lollmg hack in a great elhow chair,
heing a heavy corpulent man, and his meat heing
hrought him hy two women slaves: he had two more
whose office, I think few gentlemen in Europe would
accept of their service in, vis. one fed the 'squire
witli a spoon, and the other held the dish with one
hand, and scraped off what he let fall on his wor-
ship's heard, and taffety vest, with the other; while the
great fat hrute thought it helow him to employ his
own hands in any of those familiar offices, which kings
and monarchs would rather do than he trouhled with
the clumsy fingers of their servants.
I took this time to think what pain men's pride
puis them to, and how trouhlesome a haughty tem-
per, thus ill managed, must he to a man of common
sense; and,leaving the poor wretch to please himself
with our looking at him, as if we admired his pomp,
whereas we really pitied and contemned him, we
pursued eur journey; only Father Simon had the cu-
liosiiyio stay to inform himself what dainties the

J
239
country justice had to feed on, in all his state: which
he said he had the honour to taste of, and which was,
1 think, a dose that an English hound would scarea
have eaten, if it had heen offered him, viz. a mess of
hoiled rice, with a great piece of garlic in it, and •
little hag filled with.green pepper, and another plant
which they have there, something like our gmger
hut smelling like musk and tasting like mustard; aU
this was put together, and a small lump or piece of
OF ROBINSON CRL'SOE.
repast, four or five servants more attendmg at a dis-
tance. If he fed them meaner than he was fed him-
self, the spice excepted, they must fare very coarsely
indeed.
As for out mandarin with whom we travelled, he
was respected like a kmg; surrounded always with
his genttemen, and attended in all his appearances
with such pomp, that I saw little of him hut at a dis-
tance; hut this I ohserved, that there was not a horse
in his retinue, hut mat our carriers' pack-horses in
England seem to me to look much hetter; hut ihey
were so covered with equipage, mantles, trappings,
and such-like trumpery, that you cannot see whether
they are fat or lean. In a word, we could scarce see
any thing hut their feet and their heads.
1 was now light-hearted, and all my trouhle and
tierplexity that I had given an account of heing over,
had no anxious thoughts ahout me; which made
this journey much the pleasanter to me, nor had I
any ill accident attended me, only in the passing or
fording a small river, my horse fell, and made me free
of the country, as they call it; that is to say, threw
me in: the place was not deep, hut it wetted me all
over: I mention it, hecause it spoiled my pocket-
hook, wherein I had set down the names of several
people and places which I had occasion to rememher,
and which not taking due care or, the leaves rotted,
and the words were never after to he read, to my great
loss, as to the names of some places which I touched
at in this voyage
At length we arrived at Pekin: I had nohody with
me hut the youth, whom my nephew the captain had
given me to attend me as a servant, and who proved
very trusty and diligent; and my partner had nohody
with him hut one servant, who was a kinsman. Ai
for the Portuguese pilot, he heing desirous to see ths
court, we gave him his passage, that is to say, hore
his charges for his company; and to use him as an in-
terpreter, for he understood the language of the cour-
try, and spoke good French and a little English; and
indeed, this old man was a most useful implement to
us every where, for we hail not heen ahove a week
at Pekin, when he came laughing: " Ah, Seignior In-
glese," said lie, " I have something to tell you, will
make youi heart glad"—"My heart glad," said I;
"what can that he? I don't know any thing in thif
country can either give me joy or grief, to any greal
degree "—" Yes, yes, said the old man, in hroken
English, "make you glad, me sorrow:" sorry, ha
would have said. This made me mere inquisitive.
M Why," said I, " will it make you sorry ?"—" Be
cause," said he," you have hrought me here twenty*
five days journey, and will leave me to go hack alone;
and which way shall 1 get to my port afterwards,
without a ship, without a horse, without pecune?" n
he called money: heing his hroken Latin, of which ha
had ahundance to make us merry with.
In short, he told us there was a great caravan of
Muscovy and Polish merchants in the city, and thai
they were preparing to set out on their journey, hj
land, to Muscovy, within four or five weeks, and hi
was sure we would take the opportunity to go with
them, and leave him hehind to go hack alone. I con-
fess I was surprised with this news: a secret joy
spread itself over my whole soul, which I cannot de-
scrihe, and never felt hefore or since; and I nad n•
power, for a gooi while, to Fpeak a word to the old
man, hut at la&t I turned to him: "How do yo*
know this?" said Ii "are you sure it is true?"—-
"Yea," he said', " I met this morning m the street
an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, or one
you call a Grecian, who is among them; he came last
from Astracan, and was designing to go to Tonquin,
where I formerly knew him, hut has altered his mind,
and is now resolved to go hack with the caravan tn
Moscow, and so down the river of Wolga to A?tra-
can."—" Well, Seignior," said I, "do not he uneasy
ahout heing left to g.o hack alone; if this he a method
for my return to Lngland, it shall he your fault if
you go hack to Macao at allV We then went to con-
suit together what was to he done, and I asked my
partner what he thought of the pilot's news, and whe-
ther it would suit with his affairs: he told me he
would do just as I would; for he had settled all his
affairs so well at Bengal, and left his effects in such
good hands, that as we made a good voyage here, if
he could vest in China silks, wrought and raw, such
as might he worth the carriage, he would he content
to go to England, and then make his voyage hack to
Bengal hy the Company's ships
Having resolved upon this', we agreed, that, if out
Portuguese pilot would go with us, we would hear his
charges to Moscow, or to England, if he pleased;
nor, Indeed, were we to he esteemed over-generous
in that part neither, if we had not rewarded him far-
ther; for the service he had done us was really worth
all that, and more , for he had not only heen a pilot
• to us at sea, hut he had heen also like a hroker for us
on shore; and his procuring for us the Japan mer-
chant was some hundreds of pounds in our pockets.
So we consulted together ahout it; and, heing willing
Vt gratify him, which was, indeed, hut doing him jus-
tice, and very willing also to have him with us hesides,
for he was a most neccessary man on all occasions, we
•greed to give him a quantity of coined gold vhich,
as I compute it, came to ahout one hundred and
seventy-five pounds sterling hetween us, and to hear
his charges, hoth for himself and horse, except only a
horse to carry his goods.
Hat Ins s'"tlad this among ourselves, we called him
VOL II 16
to let mm know what we had resolved: I told him,
he had complained of our heing like to let him go
hack alone, and I was now to tell him we were re-
solved he should not go hack at all: that as we had
resolved to go to Europe with the caravan, we resolv-
ed also he should go with us, and that we called him
to know his mind. He shook his head, and said it
was a long journey, and he had no pecune to carry
him thither, nor to suhsist himself when he came thi-
ther. We told him we helieved it was so, and there-
fore we had resolved to do something for him, that
should let him see how sensihle we were of the service
he had done us; and also how agreeahle he was to
us: and then I told him what we had resolved to give
him here, which he might lay out as we would do
our own; and that as for his charges, if he would go
with us, we would set him safe ashore (life and casual
ties excepted,) either in Muscovy or in England,
which he would, at our own charge, except only the
carriage of his goods.
He received the proposal like a man transported,
and told us, he would go with us over the whole
world; and so, in short, we all prepared ourselves
for the journey. However, as it was with us, so it
was with the other merchants, they had many things
to do; and instead of heing ready in five weeks, it
was four months and some odd Jays hefore all things
were got together.
It was the heginning of Fehruary, our style, when
we set out from Pekm. My partner, and the old pilot
had gone express hack to the port where we had first
put in, to dispose of some goods which he ha.l left
there; and I, with a Chinese merchant, whom I had
some knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to
Pekin on his own affairs, went to Nanquin, where I
hought ninety pieces of fine damasks, with ahout two
hundred pieces of other very fine silks, of several
sot is, some mixed with gold, and had all these hrought
lo Pekin against my partner's return: hesides thii,
S43
we hought a very large quantity of raw silk and
some other goods; our cargo amounting, in then
goods only, to ahout three thousand five hundred
pounds sterling, which, together with tea, and some
fine calicoes, and three camel-loads of nutmegs and
cloves, loaded in all eighteen camels for our share,
hesides those we rode upon; which, with two or three
spare horses, and two horses loaded with provisions,
marle us in short, twenty six camels and horses in our
retinue.
The company was very great, and, as near as I can
rememher, made hetween three and four hundred
horses and camels, and upwards of a hundred and
twenty men, very well armed, and provided for all
events. For as the eastern caravans are suhject to he
attacked hy the Arahs, so are these hy the Tartars;
hut they are not altogether so dangerous as the Arahs,
nor so harharous when they prevail
The company consisted of people of several na-
tions, such as Muscovites chiefly: for there were
ahout sixty of them who were merchants or mhahi-
tants of Moscow, though of them some were Livo-
nians; and to our particular satisfaction, five of them
were Scots, who appeared also to he men .of great
experience in husiness, and very good suhstance.
When we had travelled one day's journey, ths
guides, who . were five in numher, called all the gen-
tlemen and merchants, that is to say, all the pas Hen.
gers, except the servants, to a great council, as the}
termed it. At this great council every one deposited
a certain quantity of money to a common stock, foi
the necessary expense of huying forage on the wav,
where it was not otherwise to he had, and for satisfr
hig 'he guides, getting horses, and the like. Ann
bere they constituted the journey, as they railed it, via.
they ntmed captains and officers to draw us all up,
and give the command in case of an attack: and gave
every one their turn of command. Nor was this form-
ing us mto order anw more than what we found need'
til upon the way, a& shall he ohserved in its place.

The toad all on this •ide of the country is very po-
pulous, and is full of potters and earth makers; that
is to say, people that tempered the earth for tlte
China ware; and, as 1 was going along, our Portu-
guese pilot, who had always something or other to say
tu make us merry, came sneering to me, and told me,
LITE AND ADVENTURES
and that I should have this to say of China, after all
the ill-humoured things 1 had said of it, that I had
seen one thing which was not to he seen in all the
world heside. 1 was very importunate to know what
it was; at last he told me, it was a gentleman's house,
huilt all with China ware. "Well," said I, " are
not the materials of their huilding the product of theit
own country; and so it is all Chtna ware, is it not."'
—"No, no," says he, "I mean it is a house all
made of China ware, such as you call so in England;
or, as it is called in our country, porcelean."—" Well
said I, "such a thing may he: how hig is it? can
we carry it in a hox upon a camel? If we can, we
will huy it."—" Upon a camel!" said the old pilot,
hold:ng up hoth his hands; "why there is a family
of thirty people lives in it."
I was then curious, indeed, to see it; and when I
came to see it, it was nothing hut this: it was a tim-
her house, or a house huilt, as we call it in England,
w:th lath and plaster, hut all the plastering was really
Ch:na ware, tSat is to say, it was plastered with Lss
eanh that makes China ware.
The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was
glazed, and looked .very well, perfectly white, and
fainted with blue figures, as the large China ware in
ngland is painted, and hard,as if it had heen hurnt.
As to the inside, all 'he walls, instead of wainscot,
were lined with hardened and painted tiles, like the
little square tiles we call galley t:les in England, alt
made of the finest China, and the figures exceeding fine
indeed, with extraordinary variety of colours, mixed
with gold, many tiles maktng hut one figure, hut join-
ed so art:ficially with mortar, heing made of the same
343


earth, that it was very hard to see where the tiles met,
The floors of the rooms were of the same composi-
tion, and as hard as the earthen floors we have :n use
in several parts of England, especially Lincolnshire,
Nottinghamshire, Leicestershire, &c. as hard as stone,
and smooth, hut not hurnt and painted, except some
smaller rooms, like closets, which were all, as :t
were, paved with the same tile: the ce:lings, and, in a
word, all the plastering work in the whole house,
were of the same earth; and, after all, the roof was
covered with t:tes ot the same, hut oJ a deep shining
hlack.
This was a China warehouse indeed, truly and lite-
rally to he called so; and had I not heen upon the
journey, I could have staid some days to see and exa-
mine the particulars of it . They told me there were
fountains and fish-ponds in the garden, all paved at
the hottom and sides with the same, and fine statues
set up in rows on the walks, entirely formed of the
porceleau earth, and hurnt whole.
As this is one of the singularities of China, so they
may he allowed to excel in it; hut I am verv sura
they excel in their accounts of it; for they Mid me
such incredihle things of their performance in crockery-
ware, for such it is, that I care not to relate, as know-
ing it could not he true—One told me, in particular,
of a workman thai made a ship, with all its tackle,
and masts, and sails, in earthen-ware hig enough to
carry fifty men. If he had told me he launched it,
and made a voyage to Japan in it, I might have said
something to it indeed; hut as it was, I knew the
whole story, which was, in short, asking pardon for
the word, that the fellow lied; so 1 smiled, and said
Dothing to it.
sThis odd sight kept me two hours hehind the eara-
van, for which the leader of it for the day fined me
ahout the value of three shillings; and told me, if ii
had oeen three days journey without the wall, as :t was
three days within, he must have fined me four times
as much, and made me ask pardon the next council-
day: so I promised to he more orderly; for, indeed,
I found afterwards the orders made for keeping all
together were ahsolutely necessary for our common
safety
In two days more we passed the great China wall,
made for a fortification against the Tartars; and a very
great work it is, going over hills and mountains in an
endless track, where the rocks are impassahte, and the
precipices such as no enemy could possihly enter, or,
indeed, climh up, or where, if they did, no wall could
hinder them. They tell us its length is near a thou-
sand English miles, hut that the country is five hun-
dred in a straight measured line, which the wall
hounds, without measuring the windings and turnings
it takes; 'tis ahout four fathoms high, and as many
thick in some places
I stood still an hour, or thereahouts, without tres-
passing on our orders, for so long the caravan was in
passing the gate; I say, I stood still an hour to look at
it, on every side, near and far off; I mean, what was
within my view; and the guide of our caravan, who
had heen extolling it for the wonder of the world, was
mighty eager to hear my opinion of it I told him it
was a most excellent thing to keep off the Tartars,
which he happened not to understand as 1 meant it,
and so took it for a compliment; hut the old pilot
laughed: "0, Seignior Inglese," said he," you speak
in colours."—" In colours !" said I; "what do you
mean hy that ?"—" Why, you speak what looks white
this way, and hlack that way; gay one way, and dull
another way: you tell him it is a good wall to keep
out Tartars; you tell me, hy that, it is good for no-
tliing hut to keep out Tartars; or will keep out none
hut Tartars. I understand you. Seignior Inglese, I
understand you," said he, joking; "hut Seignior
Chinese understand you his own way."
"Well, " said I," Seignior, do you think it would
stand out an army of our country-people, with a food
tram of artillery ; or our engineers, with two compa-
nies of miners? Would they not haiter it down in tea

4ays, that an army might enter in hattalia, or hlow it
sp in the air, foundation and all, that there should ha
no sign of it left?"—" Ay, ay," said he, "1 know
that.' The Chinese wanted mightily to know what I
said, and I gave him leave to tell him a few days after,
for we were then almost out of their country, end ha
was to leave un in a little time afterwards; but when
he knew what I had said, he was dumh all the rest of
the way, and we heard no more of his fine story of
the Ch:nese power and greatness while he staid.
After we had passed this mighty nothing, cnlled a
wall, something like the Pints wall, so famous in
Northumherland, and huilt hy the Romans, we hegan
to find the country thinly inhahited, and the people
rather confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as
heing suhject to the inroads and depredations of the
Tartars, who roh in great armies, and therefore are
not to he resisted hy the naked inhahitants of nn open
country.
And here I hegan to find the necessity of keeping
together in a caravan, as we travelled; for we saw
several troops of Tartars roving ahout; hut when I
came to see them distinctly, I wondered how that
the Chinese empire could he conquered hy such con-
temptihle fellows ; for they are a mere herd or crowd
of wild fellows, keeping no order, and understanding
no discipline, or manner of fight.
Their horses are poor, lean, starved creatures,
taught nothing, and are fit for nothing; and this we
found the first day we saw them, which was after we
entered the wilder part of the country. Our leadei
for the day gave leave for ahout sixteen of us to go a
hunting, as they call it; and what was this hut hunt-
ing of sheep ! However it may he called hunting too
for the creatures are the wildest, and swiften? of font,
that ever I saw of their kind ; only thcy will not run
a great way, and you are sure of sport when ynu he-
gin the chase; for they appear generally hy thirty o•
forty in a flock, and, like true sheep, always :teepUv
gether when they fly.

In pursuit of this odd sort nf game, it was our hap
to meet with ahout forty Tartars: whethsr they were
hunting mutton as we were, or whether they looked
for another kind of prey, I know not; hut as soon as
they saw us, one of them hlew a kind of horn very
loud, hut with a harharous sound that I had never
heard hefore, and, hy the way, never care to hear
a^ain. We all supposed this was to call their friends
ahout them: and so it was; for in less.than half a
quarter of an hour, a troop of forty or fifty more aiv
peared at a ahout a mile distance , hut our work was
over first, as it happened.
One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened tc
he amongst us; and as soon as he heard the horn, he
told us, in short, that we had nothing to do hut to
charge them immediately, without loss of time; and
drawing us up in a line, he asked, if we were resolv-
ed? We toin him, we were ready to follow him : so
he rode directly up to them. They stood gazing at us,
like a mere crowri, drawn up in no order, nor show-
ing the face of any order at all; hut as soon as they
saw us advance, they let fly their arrr,rs; which how-
ever, missed us very happily: it seems they mistook
not their aim, hut their dtstance , for their arrows al
fell a little short of us, hut with so true an aim, that
had we heen ahout twenty yards nearer, we must have
had severa' men wounded, if not k:lled.
Immed:ately we halted; and though it was at a
great distance, we fired, and sent them leaden hullets
for wooden arrows, following our shot full gallon, re-
solving to fall in among them sworn tn hand, for so
our hold Scot that led us, directed He was, indeed,
hut a merchant, hut he hehaved with that vigour and
hravery on this occasion, and yet with such a r.rwtl
courage too, that I never saw a man in action, fi:trr
for command. As soon as we came up to them, 'va
fired our pistols in their faces, and then drew; hut the)
fled in the greatest confusion imaginahle: the only
stand any of them made was on our right, where thr'.e
of them stood, and, hy signs, called the rest to come
back to thci, having a kind of scimitar in their hands
and their hows hanging at their hacks. Our hrave
commander, without askmg any hody to follow him
galloped up close to ihem, and with his fusil knocked
one of them off his horse, killed the second with hii
pistol, and the third ran away ; and thus ended our
fight; hut we had this misfortune attending it, viz. thai
all our mutton that we had in chase got away. We
had not a man killed or hurt; hut. as for the Tartar*,
there were ahout five of them killed ; how many were
wounded, we knew not; hut this we knew, that the
other party was so frighted with the noise of our guns,
that they fled, and never made any attempt upon us.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions,
and therefore the Tartars were not so hold as after-
wards ; hut in ahout five days we entered a vast great
wild desert, which held us three days and nights
march; and we were ohliged to'carry our water with
us in great leather hottles, and to encamp all night,
rust as 1 have heard they do in the deserts of Arahia.
I asked our guides, whose dominion this was in?
and they told me this was a kind of horder that might
Ik called No Man's Land; heing part of the Great
Karakathy, or Grand Tartary: hut that, however, it
was reckoned to China; that there was no care taken
here to preserve it from the inroads of thieves; and
therefore it was reckoned the worst desert in the whole
march, though we were to go over some much larger.
In passing this wilderness, which 1 confess, was at
the first view very frightful to me, we saw two or
three times little parties of the Tartars, hut they seem-
ed to he upon their own affairs, and to have no design
upon us; and so like the man who met the devil, if
they had nothing to say to us, we had nothing to say
to them ; we let them go.
Once, however, a party of them came so near as to
stand and gate at us, whether it was to consider what
they should do, viz. to attack us. or not attack uc, we
knew not; hut when we were passed at -some distance
hy them, we made a rear guard of lorty men, and
250 LIFE AND ADVENTURES
mile, or thereahouts, hefore us. After a while they
marched off, only we found they assaulted us with five
arrows at their parting; one of which wounded a
horse, so that it disahled him ; and we left him the
next day, poor creature, in great need of a good far-
rier. We suppose they might shoot more arrows,
which might fall short of us; hut we saw no more
arrows, or Tartars, at that time.
We travelled near a month after this, the ways he-
ing not so good as at first, though still in the dominions
of the emperor of China; hut lay, for the most part,
in villages, some of which were fortified, hecause of
the incursions of the Tartars. When we came to one
of these towns, (it was ahout two days and a half's
journey, hefore we were to come to the city'of Naum,)
I wanted to huy a camel, of which there are plenty to
he sold all the way upon that road, and of horses also,
such as they are, hecause so many caravans coming
that way, they are very often wanted. The person
that I spoke to to get me a camel, would have gone
and fetched it for me: hut I. like a fool, must he offi-
cious, and go myself along with him. The place was
ahout two miles out of the village, where, it seems,
they kept the camels and horses feed in^ under a guard.
I walked it on foot, with my old pilot in company,
and a Chinese, heing desirous, forsooth, of a littlei
variety. When we came to this place, it was a low
marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled
up dry, without mortar or earth among it, like a park,
with a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the doori.
Having hought a camel, and agreed for the price, I
came away : and the Chinese man, that went with me,
led the camel, when on a sudden came up five Tartars
on horsehack two of them seized the felllow, and
took the camel from him, while the other three stepped
up to me and my old pilot; seeing us, as it were, un-
armed, for I had no weapon ahout me hut my sword,
which could hut i'l defend me against three horsemen.
The first that came up stopp*n snort upon my draw-
ing my word, (for they arrant cowards,)hut a
second coming upon my left, gave me a hlow on the
head which I nerer felt I'.li afterwards, and wonder-
ed, when 1 came to myse'i", what was the matter with
me, and where I was/or tie laid me ilat on the ground;
hut my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese (so Pro-
vidence, unlocked 'or., directs deliverance from dan-
gers, which to us are unforeseen,) had a P'stol in hw
pocket, which I kn« # nothing of, nor the Tartars nei-
ther; if they had, I suppose they would not have at-
tacked us: hut cowards are always holdest when then
is no danger.
The old man, seeing me down, with a hold heart
stepped up to the fellow that had struck me, and lay-
ing hold of his arm with one hand, and pulling him
down hy main force a little towards him with the
other, he shot him into the head, and laid him dead on
the spot: he then immediately stepped up to him who
had stop;i•d us, as I said, and hefore he could com•
forward again (for it was all done as it were in a mo-
ment) mide a hlow at him with a scimitar, which he
always wore, hut, missing the man, cut his horse into
the side of his head, cut one of his ears off hy the
root, and a great slice down the side of his face. The
poor heast, enraged with the wounds, was no more to
he governed hy his rirler, though the fellow sat well
enough too; hut away he flew, and carried him quits
out of the pilot's reach: and, at some distance, rising
upon his hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell
upon him.
In this interval the poor Chinese came m, who had
lost the camel, hut he had no weapon ; however, see-
ing the Tartar down, and his horse fallen upon him,
he runs to him, and seizing upon an ugly ill-favoured
weapon he had hy his side, something like a pole-axe,
hut not a pole-axe either, he wrenched it from him,
and made shift to knock his Tartarian hrains out with
it. Hut my old man had the third Tartar to deal with
•till; and, seeing he did not fly as he expected, net
come on to fight him as he apprehended, hut stood
Mock still, the old man stood still too, and falls to work
with his tackle to charge his pistol again: hut as soon
as the Tartar saw the pistol, whether he supposed it
to he the same or another, 1 know not, away he scoured
and left my pilot, my champion, 1 called him afterwards \
a complete victory. S
By this time I was a little awake; for I thought, S
when 1 first hegan to awake, that I had heen in a 5
sweet sleep; hut as I said ahove, I wondered where 1?
was, how 1 came upon the ground, and what was the 5
matter: in a word, a few minutes after, as sense re- S
turned, I felt pam, though I did not know where; 1 ,J
clapped my hand to my head, and took it away hloody; J'
then 1 felt my head ache, and then, in another mo- s
meni, memory returned, and every thing was present s
to me again. \
j! 1 jumped up upon my feet instantly, and got hold 5
q of my sword, hut no enemies in view. I found a Tar- J
£ tar lie dead, and his horse standing very quietly hy \
> him: and looking farther 1 saw my champion and /
f deliverer, who had heen to see what the Chinese had 5
done, coming hack with his hanger in his hand. Tho i
aid man, seeing me on my feet, came running to me, 5
and emhraced me with a great deal of joy, heing afraid 5
hefore that I had heen killed; and seeing me hloody, f
would see how 1 was hurt, hut it was not much, only ,J
what we call a hroken hoad . neither did I afterwards
find any great inconvenience from the hlow, other than 5
the place which was hurt, and which was well again \
in two or three days.
We made no great gain, however, hy this victory \
for we lost a camel, and gained a horse: hut that
which was remarkahle, when we came hack to the
village, the man demanded to he paid for the camel;
I disputed it, and it was hrought to a hearing hefore
the Chinese judge of the place : that is to say, m Eng-
lish, he went hefore a justice of the peace. Give him
his due, he acted with a great deal of prudence and
an paruality; and havmg heard hoth sides he gravel/


nked the Chinese man that went with me to huy the
camel, whose servant iia wss? "1 am no servant,"
•aid he," hut went with the stranger.'' w A' whose re-
quest ?" said the justice. "At the stranger's request,"
said he. "Why then," said the justice," you were
the stranger's servant for the time; and the camel heing
delivered to his servant, it was delivered to him, and
he must pay for it."
I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a
word to say; hut admiring to see such just reasoning
upon the consequence, and so accurate stating the case,
I paid willingly for the camel, and sent for another;
hut you may ohserve, I sent for it; I did not go to fetch
it myself any more - I had had enough of that
.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese em-
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. SSI
go there; for this I will venture to affirm, that all the
Tartars in Karakathy, which, I helieve, are some mil-
lions, could not hatter down the walls with their hows
and arrows; hut to call it strong 'it were attacked
with cannon, would he to make ii»*e who understand
h laugh at you.
We wanted, as 1 have said, ahout two days journey
of this city, when messengers were sent express to
every part of the road, to tell all travellers and cara-
vans to halt, till they had a guard sent to them; for
that an unusual hody of Tartars, making ten thousand
ki all, had appeared in the way, ahout thirty miles he-
yond the city.
This was very had news to travellers; however, It
was carefully done of the governor, and we were very
glad to hear we should have a guard. Accordingly,
two days after, we had two hundred soldiers sent us
from a garrison of the Chmese on our left, and three
hundred more from the city of Naum, and with those
we advanced holdly: the three hundred soldiers from
Naum marched in our front, the two hundred in out
rear, and our men on aach side of our camels, with
•ur taggage, and the whole caravan in the centre. Ia
sait irder, and well prepared for hattle, we thought
37
ourselves • match for the whole ten thousand Mogiw
Tartars, if they had appeared; hut the next day, when
they did appear, it was quite another thing.
It was early in the morning, when marching from
a little well-situated town, called Changu, we had a
river to pass, where we were ohliged to ferry; and
had the Tartars had any intelligence, then had heen
the time to have attacked us, when, the caravan heing
over, the rear-guard was hehind: hut they did not ap-
pear there.
Ahout three hours after, when we were entered upon
a desert of ahout fifteen or sixteen miles over, hehold,
hy a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an enemy was
at hand ; they were at hand indeed, for they cam•
on upon the spur.
The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked
so hig the day hefore, hegan to stagger, and the soldiers
frequently looked hehind them. which is a certain
sign in a soldier, that he is just ready to run away.
My old pilot was of my mind ; and heing near me, he
called out: "Seignior Inglese," said he, "those fel-
lows must he encouraged, or they will ruin us all; for
if the Tartars come on, they will never stand it."—
"I am of your mind," said I; " hut what coursa
must he done !"—" Dojic?" said he ; " let fifty of our
men advance, and flank them on each wing, and en-
courage them, and they will fight like hrave fellows
in hrave company; hut without it they will every
man turn his hack." Immediately I rode up to our
leader, and told him, who was exactly of our mind;
and accordingly fifty of us marched to the Tight wing
and fifty to the left, and the rest made a line of re
serve; for so we marched, leaving the last two hun
di ed men to make another hody to themselves, and la
guard the camels ; only that, if need were, they should
send a hundred men to assist the last fifty.
In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumera
ole company they were; how many, we could not tell,
hut ten thousand we thought was the least. A party
of tiiem came on first, and viewed uur posture, tra-
255
versing trie ground in the front of our line; and at
we found them within gun-shot, our leader ordeted
the two wings to advance swiftly, and give them a
talvo on each wing with their shot, which was done;
hut they went off, and I suppose went hack to give an
account of the reception they were like to meet with;
and, indeed, that salute clogged their stomachs ; for
they immediately halted, stood awhile to consider of
k, and, wheel:ng off to the left, they gave over the do-
sign, and said no more to us for that time; which was
very agreeahle to our ctrcumstances, which were hut
very ind:fferent for a hattle with such a numher.
Two days after this we came to the city of Naum,
or Nanum. W e thanked the governor for his care for
us, and collected to the value of one hundred crowns,
or thereahouts, which we gave to the soldiers sent to
guard us; and here we rested one day. This is a gar-
rison indeed, and there -were nine hundred soldiers
kept here; hut the reason of it was, that formerly tha
Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to them than they do
now, the Muscovites having ahandoned that part of
the country (which lies from the city west, for chout
two hundred miles) as desolate and unfit for use ; and
more especially, heing so very remote, and so difficult
to send troops hither for its defence; for we had yet
ahove two thousand miles to Muscovy, properly so
called.
After this we passed several great rivers, and two
dreadful deserts, one of which we were sixteen days
Gassing over, and which, as I said, was to he called
10 Man's Land : and on the 13th of April we came
to the frontiers of the Muscovite domimons. I think
the first ctty, or town or fortress, whatever it might
he called, that helonged to the czar of Muscovy, was
sailed Argun, heing on the west side of the river
Argun.
1 could not hut discover an infinite satisfaction, that
I was now arrived in, as I called it, a Christian coun-
try ; or, at least, in a country governed hy Chr stianst
tor toougn the Muscovites do, in my optmon, hut just
deserve the name of Christians (yet such they pretend
to he, and are very devout in their way;) it would cer.
tainly occur to any man who travels the world ai 1
have done, and who had any power of reflection; I
cay, it would occur to him, to reflect, what a hlessing
it is to he hrought into the world where the name of
God, and of a Redeemer, is knoim, worshipped, and
dored—and not where the people, given up hy Heaven
•o strong delusions, worship the devil, and prostrate
themselves to stocks and stones; worship monsters,
elements, horrihle shaped animals, and statues, or
images of monsters. Not a town or city we passed
through hut 'had their pagoda, their idols, and their
temples; and ignorant people worshipping even the
works of their own hands!
Now we came where, at least a face of the Christian
wnrshipappeared, where the knee was oowed to Jesus;
and whether iguorantly or not, yet the Christian re-
ligion was owned, and the name of the true God was
called upon and adored : and it made the very recesses
of my soul rejoice to see it. I saluted the hrave Scotch
merchant I mentioned ahove, with my first acknow-
ledgment of this; and, taking him hy the hand, 1 said
to him, " Blessed he God, we are once again come
among Christians!" He smiled, and answered, " Do
not rejoice too soon, countryman; these Muscovites
are hut an odd sort of Christians; and hut for the
name of it, you may *ee a very little of the suhstance
for some months farther of our journey."
"Well," said I, " hut still it is hetter than pagan-
ism, and woishipping of devils."—"Why, 1*1 teU
you said he; " except the Russian soldiers in garri-
sons, and a few of the inhahitants of the cities upon
the road, all the rest of this country, for ahove a thou-
sand miles farther, is inhahited hy the worst and most
ignorant of pagans." And so indeed we found it
.
We were now launched into the greatest piece of
25C LIFE AND ADVENTURES
the glohe, that is to he found in any part of the worldt
we had at least twelve hundred miles to the sea,east
ward; we had at least two thousand to the hottom of
the Baltic sea, westward; and almost three thousand
in iles, if we left that sea, and went on west to the I in
tish and French channels; we had full five thousand
miles to the Indian or Persian sea, south; and ahout
eight Hundred miles to the Frozen sea, north; nay, if
some people may he helieved, there might he no sea
north-east till we came round the pole, and conse
quently in the north-west, and so had a continent of
and mto America, no mortal knows where; though I
could give some reasons why 1 helieve that to he a
mistake too.
As we entered into the Muscovite domimons, a good
while hefore we came to any considerahle town, we
hiid nothing to ohserve there hut this: first, that all tlie
rivers rim to the east. As I understood hy the charts
which some of our caravans had with them, it was
plain that all those rivers ran into the Great river Ya-
mour, or Gammour. Tins river, hy the natural course
of it. must run into the east sea, or Chinese ocean.
The story they teil us, that the mouth of this river ii
choked up with hulrushes of a monstrous growth, viz.
three feet ahout, and twenty or thirty feet ..igh, I
must lit; allowed to say 1 helieve nothing of. hut as its
navigation is of no use, hecause there is no trade that
way. the Tartars, to whom alone it helongs, dealing in
nothing hut cattle; so nohody that ever I heard of,
'as heen curious enough either to go down to the
mouth of it in hoats, or to come up from the mouth of
it in ships; hut this is certain, that this river runnmg
due east, in the lautude of sixty degrees, carries a vast
concourse of riveis along with it, and finds an ocean
to empty itself in that latitude; so we are sure of sea
there.
Some iesgues to the north of this river there are
several considerahle rivers, whose streams run as due
north as the Yamom runs east: and these are all found
to jom their waters with the great river Tartarus,
named so from the northernmost nations of the Mogul
Tartars, who, the Chmese say, were the first Tartan
r™

hi tht world; and who, as our geographers allege, am I
the Gog and Magog mentioned in sacred story i
These rivers running all northward, as well as all i
the other rivers I am yet to speak of, made it evident \
that the northern ocean hounds the land also on that 5
side, so that it does not seem rational in the least to 5
think that the land can extend itself to join with A me- J
tica on that side, or that there is uoi a communication i
hetween the northern and the eastern ocean; hut of?
this 1 shall say no more; it was my ohservation a?
that time, and therefore I take notice of it in this jj
place. We now advanced from the river Arguna hy <
easy and moderate journeys, and were very visihly 5
ohliged to the care the czar of Muscovy has taken to 5
have cities and towns huilt in as many places as an 5
possihle to place them, where his soldiers keep garri- $
son. something like the stationary soldiers placed hy
the Romans in the remotest countries of their empire,
some of which 1 had read, were particularly placed in
Britain for the security of commerce, and for the lodg-
ing of travellers; and thus it was here; though wher-
ever we came at these towns and stations the garrison!
and governor were Russians, and professed mere pay
gans, sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the sun,
moon, and stars, or all the host of heaven; and not
only so, hut were, of all the heathens and pagans that
ever I met with, the most harharous, except only that
they did not eat man's flesh, as our savages of Ame-
rica did
Some Instances of this we met with in the country
heiween Arguna, where we entered the Muscovite do-
mmions, and a city of Tartars and Russians together,
called Nertxinskay; in which space is a continued de-
sert, or forest, which cost us twenty days to travel over'
It. In a village near the last of those places, 1 had
the curiosity to ^o and see their way of living; which s
is most hrutish and (msufferahle; ihey had, I suppose, $
a great sacrifice that day; for there stood out upon an 5
old stump of a tree, an idol made of wood, frightful 5
as the devil; at least a& any thing we can think of to ^
represent the devil that can he made. It had a head
certainly not bo much as resemhling an) creature thai
the world ever saw ; ears as hig as goats horns, and as
high i eyes as hig as a crown-piece ; and a nose like a
crooked ram's horn, and a mouth extended four-cor-
nered, like that of a lion, with horrihle teeth, hooked
like a parrot's under hill. It was dressed up in the
filthiest manner that you can suppose; its upper gar-
ment was of sheep-skins, with the wool outward; a
great Tartar honnet on the head, with two horns grow
mg through it: it. was ahout eight feet high, yet had no
feet or legs, or any other proportion of parts.
This scarecrow was set up at the outside of the vil-
lage; and when I came near to it, there were sixtei n
or seventeen creatures,whether men orwomen I conld
not tell, for they make no distinction hy their hahits,
either of hody or head ; these lay all flaton the ground,
round this formidahle hlock of shapeless wood. I
saw no motion among them any more than if they laad
heen logs of wood, like their idol; at first I really
thought they had heen so; hut when I came a little
nearer, they started up upon their feet, and raised a
howling cry,as if it had heen so many deep-mouthed
hounds, and walked away as if they weie displeased
at our disturhmg thcm. A little way off from this
monster, and at the door of a tent or hut, made all ol J
sheep-skins and cow-skins,dried,stood three hutchers: i
I thought thev were such ; for when I came neaiei ta <
them, I found they had long knives in their hands, ^
and in the middle of the lent appeared three sheep >
killed, and one young hullock, or steer. These, it 5
seems, were sacrifices to that senseless log of an idol; 5
•ud these three men priests helonging to it; and the 5
seventeen prostrated wretches were the people who ;'.
hrought the offering, and were making their prayers
o that stock.
1 confess 1 was more moved at their stupidity, and
this hrutish worship of a hohgohlin, than ever I was
at anv thing in my life: to see God's most glorious
and hest creature,to whom tie had granted so man) ad-
santages, even hy creation, ahove the rest of the works.
of his hands, ves.ed with a reasonahle soul, and thai
aoul adorned with Acuities and capacities adapted hoth
lo honour his Maker and he honoured hy him ; ! say,
to sea it sunk and degenerated to a degree so mora
than stupid, as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothhif
a mere imaginary ohject, dressed up hy themselves,
apd made terrihle to themselves hy theirown contriv-
ance, adorned only with clouts and rags; and that this
should he the effect ol mere ignorance, wrought up
into hellish devotinn hy the devil himself; who, envy-
in; his Maker the homage and adoration of his crea-
tures, had deluded them into such gross, surfeiting, sor-
did, and hrutish things, as one would think should
shock nature itself
But what signified all the astonishment and reflec-
tion of thoughts? Thus it was, and I saw it hefore my
•yes; and there was no room to wonder at it, or think
it impossihle. All my admiration turned to rage; and
I rode up to the image or monster, call it what you
will, and with my sword cut the honnet that was on
tts head in two in the middle, so that it hung down hy
one ot the homs; and one of the men that was with
me, took hold of the sheep skin that covered it, and
pulled at it, when, hehold, a most hideous outcry and
howling ran through the village, and two or three hoiv
d: ed people came ahout my ears, so that 1 was glad to
scour for it: for we saw some had hows and arrows;
hut t resolved from that moment to visit them again.
Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which
wts ahout four miles off, in order to provide soma
horses, which they wanted, several of the horses hav-
ing heen la.ned and jaded with the hadness of the
way. and our long march over the last desert; so we
nad some le:sure here to put mv design in execution.
1 communicated my proiect to the Scots merchant.of
Moscow, of whose courage I had had a sufficient tes-
timony, as ahove. I told him what I had seen, and
W'th what indignation I had since thought thai humaa
nature could he »o degenerate. 1 told turn I was re-
totreeV If f could get hut four or five men well armed
to go with me, to go and destroy thai rile ahomi-
nahle idol: to let them see, that it had no power m
help itself, and consequently could not he an ohject of
worship, or to he prayed to, much less help them that
offered sacrifices to it.
He laughed at me: said he, "Your zeal may he
good; hut what do you propose to yourself hy it ?"—-
u Propose !" said I: "to vindicate the honour of God
which is insulted hy this devil-worship "—" But how
will it vindicate the honour of God," said he,', white
the people will not he ahle to know what you mean
hy it, unless you could speak to them too, and tell them
so? and then they will fight you too, 1 will assure you,
for they are desperate fellows, and that especially in
defence of their Idolatry."—" Can we not," said I,
"do it in the night, and then leave them the reasons in
writing in their own language ?"—Writing!" said
he; "why there is not in five nations of them one
man that knows any thing of a letter, or how to read
a word in any language, or then own."—" Wretched
Ignorance f" said I to him: "however, I have a
great mind to do it; perhaps nature may draw infer-
ences from it to them, to let them see how hrutish they
are to worship such horrid things.s' —" Look you,
Sir," said he; "if your zeal prompts you to it so
warmly, you most do it; hut in the next place, I
would have vou consider these wild nations of people
are suhjected hy force to the czar of Muscovy's domi-
nion, and if you do this, it is ten to one hut they will
come hy thousands to the governor of Nertzmskays
snd complain, and demand satisfaction; and if lad
cannot give them satisfaction, it is ten to one hut they
will revolt; and it will occasion a new war with all
the Tartars in the country."
This, I confess put new thoughts into my head for
swhile; hut I harped upon the same string still: and
all that day I was uneasy to put my project in execu-
tion. Toward the evening the Scots merchant met
me h/ accident, in our walk ahout the town, and das*-
•o speak with me: "I helieve/' said he, " I have
put you off your good design ; 1 have heen a little
concerned alxiut it since; for I ahhor the idol, and
idolatry, as much as you can do."—" Truly," said I»
"you have put it off a little, as to the execution of itl
hut you have not put it all out of my thoughts ; and, I
helieve, I shall do it still, hefore I quit this place,
though I were to he delivered up to them for a satisfac-
tion."—" No, no," said he, " God forhid 'hey shouM
deliver you up to such a crew of monsters! they shall
not do that neither ; that would he murdering you in-
deed."—" Why," said I, " how would they use me?"
—" Use you !" said he: " V]) tell you how they serv-
ed a poor Russian, who affronted tnem in their wor-
ship just as you did, and whom tney took prisoner,
after they had lamed him with an arrow, that he could
not run away: they took him and stripped him stark
naked, and set him upon the top of the idol monster,
and stood all round him, and shot as many arrows
into him as would stick over his whole hody; and
then they hurnt him, and all the arrows sticking in
him, as a sacrifice to the idol."—" And was this the
same idol?" said I.—"Yes," said he, "the very
same."—" Well," said I, " I will tell you a story.
So I related the story of our men at Madagascar, and
aow they hurnt and sacked the village there, and killed
man, woman, and child, for their murdering one of
our men, just as it is related hefore; and when I had
done, I added, that I thought we ought to do so to this
village.
He listened very attentively to the story; hut when
I talked of doing so to that village, said he, "Yoo
mistake very much, it was not this village; it was
•unost a hundred miles from this place; hut it was the
tame idol, for they carry him ahout in procession all
over the country."—'* Well," said I, "then that idol
ought to he punished for it; arid it shall," said I," if
I live this night out."
Iu a word, finding me resolute, he liked the design,
an i told me, I should not go alone, hut he would £•
with roe; hut he would go first, and hring a stout fel-
low, one of his countrymen, to go also with us; "and
one," said he, " as famous for his zeal as you can de-
sire any one to he against such devilish things as these.*'
In a word, he hrought me his comrade, a Scotsman,
whom he called captain Richardson; and I gave him
a full account of what I had seen,and also what I in-
tended; and he told me readily, he would go with me,
if it cost him his life. So we agreed to go, only we
three. 1 had, indeed, proposed it to my partner, hut
he declined it . He said he was ready to assist me to
the utmost, and upon all occasions, for my defence;
hut that this was an adventure quite out of his way:
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 963
my man-servant, and to put it in execution that night,
ahout midnight, with all the secrecy imaginahle.
However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to
delay it till the next night, hecause the caravan heing
io set forward in the morning, we supposed the go-
vernor could not pretend to give them any satisfaction
upon us when we were out of his power. The Scots
merchant, as steady in his resolution to enterprise it, as
hold in executing, hrought me a Tartar's rohe or gown
of sheep-skins, and a honnet, with a how and arrows,
and han provided the same for himself and his coun-
tryman, that the people, if they saw us, should not he
ahle to determine who we were.
All the first night we spent in mixing up some com-
hustihle matter with aqua-vitae, gunpowder, and such
other materials as we could get; and, having a good
quantity of tar in a little pot, ahout an hour after night
we set out upon our expedition.
We came to the place ahout eleven o'clock at night,
•nd found that the people had not the least jealousy of
danger attending their idol. The night was cloudy,
yet the moon gave us light enough to see that the idol
stood just in the same posture and place that it did
hefore. The people seemed to he all at treir rest;
only, that in the great hut, or tent, as we called it,
wbere we saw the three priests, whom we mistook fot


we saw a light, and going up close to the
door, we hear I people talking, as if there were five oi
•ix of them ; we concluded, therefore, that if we set
wildfire to the idol, these men would come out imme-
diately, and run up to the place to rescue it from the s
destruction that we intended for it. and what to do s
with them we knew not. Once we thought of carry- 5
'ng it away, and setting fire to it at a distance ; hut J
when we came to handle it, we found it too hulky for 5
our carriage; so we were at a loss again. The second c
Scotsman was for setting tire to the tent or hut, and?
knockmg the creatures that were there on the head, >
when they came out: hut I could not join wiih that; s
I was against killmg them, if it was possihle to he S
avoided. "Well then," said the Scotfi merchant, "I >
will tell you what we will do ; we will try to make 5
c them prisoners, ue their hands, and make them stand <
£ and see their idol destroyed." 5
As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough S
ahom us, which we used to tie our fire works together s
with ; so we resolved to aitack these people first, and c
with as little noWe as we could The first thing^ wa
did, we knocked at the door, when one of the priests £
coming to it, we immediately seized upon him, stopped
his mouth, and tied his hands hehind him, and led him
to the idol, where we gagged him that he might not
make a noise, tied his feet also together, and lef t him
on the ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that
| another would come out to see what the matter was;
J hut.we waited so long :dl the third man came hack to
? us: and then nohody coming out, we knocked again
5 gently, and immediately out came two more, anaws ^
served them just in the same manner, hut were ohliged
to go all with them, and lay them down hy the idol,
some disiance from one another; when going hack, wa
found two more were coute out to the door, and a
third stood hehind them within the door. We seised
the two, and immediately tied them, when the third
stepping hack, and crymg out, my Scots merchant
went m after him, and taking nut a composition we
had made, that would only smoke and stink, he set
fire to it, and threw it in among them: hy that time
the other Scotsman and my man taking charge of the
two men already hound, and tied together also hy the
arm, led them away to the idol, and left them there,
Ui see if their idol would relieve them, making haste
hack to us.
- When the furze we had thrown in had filled the hut
with so much smoke that they were almost suffocated,
we then threw in a small leather hag of another kind,
which flamed like a candle, and following it in, we
found there were hut four people left, who, it seems,
were two men and two women, and, as we supposed,
had heen ahout some of their diaholic sacrifices The*
appeared, in short, frighted to death, at least so as to
sit tremhling and stupid, and not ahle to speak neither,
for the smoke.
In a word, we took them, hound them as we had
the other, and all without any noise I should have
said, we hrought them out of the house, or hut, first,
for, indeed, we were not ahle t. hear the smoke any
more than they were When we had done this, we
carried them all together to the idol: when we came
there we fell to work with him ; and first we dauhed
him all over, and his rohes also, with tar,, and such
other stuff as we had, which was tallow mixed with,
hrimstone : then we stopped his eyes, and ears, and
mouth full of gunpowder; then we wrapped up a
preat piece of wildfire in his honnet; and then stick-
mg all the comhustihles we had hrought with us upon
him, we looked ahout to see if we could find any
hing else to help to hurn him ; when my Scotsman
rememhered that hy the tent, or hut, where the men
were, there lay a heap of dry forage, whether straw
or Pishes I do not rememher; away he and the other
Scotsman ran, and fetched their arms full of that.
When we had done ch is, we took all our prisoners, and
hrought them, having untied their feet and unga^ged
their mouths, and made them stand up, and set them
VOL. IL
just hefore their monstrous idol, and then se fire tv
the whole.
We stayed hy it a t|uarter of an hour, or thereahouts,
till the powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the
idol hlew up, and, as we could perceive, had split and
deformed the shape of it: and, m a word, till we saw
it hurnt into a mere hlock or log of wood; and then
•etting the dry forage to it, we found it would he soon
quite consumed; so we hegan to think of going away;
hut the Scotsman said, " i\o, we must not go, for
these poor deluded wretches will all throw themselves
into the fire, and hurn themselves with the idol." So
we resolved to stay till the forage was hurnt down too,
and then we came away and left them.
In the morning we appeared among our fellow-
travellers, exceeding husy in getting ready for our
journey; nor could any man suggest that we had heen
any where hut in our heds, as travellers might he sup-
posed to he, to fit themselves for the fatigues of that
dav's Journey.
ftut it did not end so: for the next day came a great
multitude of the country people, not only of this vil-
lage,.hut of a hundred more, for aught I know, to the
town-gates; and in a most outrageous manner de-
manded satisfaction of the Russian governor, for the
msulting their priests, and hurning their great Cham-
Chi-Thaungu; such a hard name they gave the mon-
strous creature they worshipped. The |ieople of Nert-
•inskay were at first in great consternation; for they
said the Tartars were no less than thirty thousand, and
that in a few days more they would he one hundred
thousand stronger
The Russian governor sent out messengers to appease
them, and gave them all the ^ood words imagmahle.
He assured them he knew nothmg of it, and that there
had not a soul of his garrison heen ahroad; that it
could not he from any hody there; and if they would
let M-n know who it was, he should he exemplarily
umfied. They returned haughtily. That all the coun
try reverenced the great Cham-Chi-Thaungu, who
dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would have dared ta
offer violence to his image, hut some Christian mis-
creant; so they called them, it seems; and they there-
fore denounced waragainst him, and all the Russians,
who, they said, were miscreants and Christians.
The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make s
hreach, or to have any cause of war alleged to he given
hy him, the czar having straitly charged him to treat
the conquered country with gentleness and civility,
gave them still all the good words he could; at last he
told them, there was a caravan gone toward Russia
that mormng, and perhaps it was some of them who
had done them this injury; and that, if they would he
satisfied with that, he would send after them, to inquire
into it. This seemed to appease them a httle; and ac-
cordingly the governor sent after us, and gave us a
particular account how the thing was, intimating
withal, that if any in our caravan had done it, they
should make their escape; hut that whether they had
done it or not, we should make all the haste forward
that was possihle: and that in the meantime he would
keep them in play as tong as he could.
This was very friendly in the governor. Howeves,
when it came to the caravan, there was nohody knew
any thing of the matter; and, as for us that were
guilty, we were the least of all suspected; none so
much as asked us the question; however, the captain
of the caravan, for the time, took the hint that the go-
rernor gave us, and we marched or travelled two days
and two nights without any considerahle stop, and then
we lay at a village called Plothus; nor d:d we make
any long stop here, hut hastened on toward Jarawena,
another of thecsarof Muscovy's colonies, and whera
we expected we should he safe; hut it is to he ohserv*
sd, that here we hegan, for two or three day's march
to enter upon a vast nameless desert, of which I shall
say more in its place; and which if we had now heen
upon it, it is more than prohahle we had heen all de-
stroyed. It was the second dav's march from l*lothus
that hy the clouds of dust hehind us at a great distance,
some of our people hegan to he sensihle we were pur-
sued. We had entered the desert, and had passed hy a
great lake, called Schanks Osier, whan we perceived a
Tery great hody of horse appear on the other side of
the lake to the north, we travelling west . We ohserv-
ed they went away west, as we did ; hut had supposed
we should have taken that side of the lake, whereas
we very happily took the south side: and in two days
nwre we saw them not, for they, helieving we were
still hefore them, pushed on, till they came to the
river Udda: this is a very great river when it pastes
farther north, hut when we came to it, we found it
narrow and fordahle.
The third day, they either found their mistake or
had intelligence of us, and came pouring in upon us
toward the dusk of the evening. We had, to our
great satisfaction, just pitched upon a place for our
camp, which was very convenient for the night; fore*
we were upon a desert, though hut at the hegin ing of
It, that was ahove five hundred miles over, we had no
towns to lodge at. and indeed, expected none hut the
city of Jarawena, which we had yet two days march
to; the desert, however, had some few woods in it oa
this side, and little rivers, which ran all into the great
river Udda. It was in a narrow strait, hetween two
tmall hut very thick woods, that we pitched our little
camp for that night, expecting to he attacked in th•
night.
Nohody knew hut ourselves what we were pursued
for; hut as it was usual for the Mogul Tartars to go
ahout in troops in that desert, so the caravans always
fortify tnemselves every night against them, as against
armies of rohhers; and it was therefore no new thing
to he pursued.
But we had, this night, of all the nights of our tra-
vels, a most advantageous camp; for we lay hetween
two woods, with a little rivulet running just hefore out
front; so that we could not he surrounded, or attacked
any way, hut in our (root or rear: we took care also
Id mmke our front as strong as we could, hy placing
our packs, with our camels and horses, all in a line on
the side of the river, and we felled some trees in our
Mr,
In this posture we encamped for the night; hut the
enemy was upon us hefore we had finished our situa-
tion: they did not come on us like thieves, as we ex
pected, hut sent three messengers to us, to demand the
i.:en to he delivered to them, that had ahused the i•
a-,tests, and hurnt their god Chain-Chi-Thaungu, thai
they might hum them with fire; and, upon this, they
mid, they would go away, and do us no farther harm,
otherwise they .would hurn us all with fire. Our men
looked very hlank at this message, and hegan to stars
at one another, to see who looked with most guilt in
their faces, hut, nohody was the word, nohody did it.
The leader of the caravan sent word he was well as-
sured it was not done hy any of our camp; that we
were peaceahle merchants, travelling on our husiness,
that we had done no harm to them, or to any one else;
and therefore, they must look farther for I heir enemies,
who had injured them, for we were not the people;
so desired them not to disturh us ; for, if they did, we
should defend ourselves.
They were far from heing satisfied with this for an
answer, and a great crowd of them came down in tlta
snorning. hy the hreak of day, to our camp; hut, seeing
us in such an advantageous situation, they durst come
3o farther than the hrook in our front, where they
stood, and showed us such a numher, as, indeed, te»
rified us very much; for those that spoke least of them
apoke of ten thousand. Here they stood, and looked
al us awhile, and then setting up a great howl, the*
et fly a cloud of arrows among us; hut we were well
anough fortified for that, for we were sheltered under
our haggage: and I do not rememher that one man
of us was hurt.
Some time after this we saw them move a little to
aur right and expected them on the rear, when a coiw
tfing feltow, a Cossack, as they call them, of J arawena,
38
in tin pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leader of
the caravan, said to him, " 1 will send all these peo-
ple away to Siheilka. This was a cr'v four or five
days journey at least to the south, and rather hehind
us. So he takes his how and arrows, and getting on
horsehack, he rides away from our rear directly, as 4
were, hack to Nertzinskay: after this, he takes a greas
circoit ahout, and comes to the army of the Tartars,
as if he had heen sent express to tell them a long story
that the people who had hurnt their Cham-Chi-Thaun
gu were gone to Siheilka, with a caravan of miscreants,
a t he called them ; that is to say, Christians; and that
they were resolved to hurn the god Seal Isarg, helong-
ing to the Tonguses.
As this fellow was a mere Tartar, and perfectly
spoke their language, he counterfe:ted so well, thai
they all took it from him, and away they drove, in a
most violent hurry, to Siheilka, which, it seems, was
five days journey to the south; and in less than three
hours they were entirely out of our sight, and we never
heard any more of them, or ever knew whether they
went to that other place called Siheilka or tux
So we passed safely on to the city of Jarawena,
where there was a garrison of Muscovites; and there
we rested five days, the caravan heing exceedingly
fatigued with the last day's march, and with want of
rest in the night.
From this city we had a frightful desert, which held
us three-and-twenty days march. We furnished our-
selves with some tents here, for the hetter accommo-
dating ourselves in the night; and the leader of the
caravan procured sixteen carriages, or wagons of th•
country, for carrying out water and provisions; anfl
these carriages were our defence every right round ous
little camurso that had the Tartars appeared, unless
they had heen very numerous indeed, tney would not
have heen ahle to hurt us.
We may well he supposed to want rest again after
this long journey; for in this desert we saw neither
House 'tr tree, or scarce a hush: we saw, indeed,
Ahundance of the sahle-huntsrs, as t'nev called th«m.
These are all Tartars of the Mogul Tartary, of which
this country is a part; and they frequently attack small
caravans , hut we saw no numhers of them together.
I was curious to see the sahle skins they catched; hus
1 could never speak w:th any of them; for they durst
Dot come near us; neither durst we straggle from our
company to go near them.
After we had passed this desert, we came into a
country pretty well inhahited; that is to say, we found
towns and castles settled hy the czar of Muscovy, with
garrisons of stationary soldiers, to protect the caravan•
and defend the country against the Tartars, who would
otherwise make it very dangerous travelling; and his
czarish majesty has given such strict orders for the
well guarding the caravans and merchants, that if there
are any Tartars heard of in the country, detachments
of the garrison are always sent to see travellers safa
from station to station.
And thus the governor of Adinskoy, whom I had
an opportunity to make a visit to, hy means of the
Scots merchant, who was acquainted with him, offered
us a guard of fifty men, if we thought there was any
danger, to the next station.
I thought long hefore this, that as we came nearer
to Europe we should find the country hetter peopled
and the people more civilized; hut I found myself
mistaken in hoth, for we had yet the nation of the
Tonguses to pass through; where we saw the samsj
tokens of paganism and harharity, or worse, than he-
fore; only as they were conquered hy the Muscovites,
and entirely reduced, they were not so dangerous; hut
fcr the rudeness of manners, idolatry, and polytheism,
no people in the world ever went heyond them. They
•re clothed all in skins of heasts, and their houses are
huilt of the same. You know not a man from a wo-
man, neither hy the ruggeriness of their countenances
ox their clothe i; and in the winter, when the ground
is coveted with mow, they live under ground, hi
houses like vaults, which have cavities or caves going
from one to another.
If tne Tartars had their Cham-Chi-Thaungu for a
whole village, or country, these had idols in every hal
and every cave ; hesides, they worship the stars, tha
sun, the water, the snow ; and, in a word, every thing
that they do not understand, and they understand hut
very little; so that almost every element, every un-
common thing, sets them a sacrificing.
But I am no more to descrihe people than countries
any farther than my own story comes to he concerned
in them. I met with nothing peculiar to myself in all
this country, which, I reckon, was from the deser"
which 1 spoke of last, at least four hundred miles, half
of it heing another desert, which took us up twelvs
days severe travelling, without house, tree, or hush,
hut we were ohliged again to carry our own provi.
sions, as well water as hread. After we were out of
this desert, and had travelled two days, we came ta
Janczay, a Muscovite city or station, on the great rivat
Janezay, This river, they told us, parted Europe Irora
Asia, though our map-makers, as I am told, do not
agree to it; however, it is certainly the eastern hound
ary of the ancient Siheria, which ngw makes a pro-
vince only of the vast Muscovite empire, hut is itseli
equal in higness to the whole empire of Germany.
And yet here I ohserved ignorance and paganism
still prevailed, except in the Muscovite garrisons. All
the country hetween the river Ohy and the river Jane-
say is as entirely pagan, and the people as harharous,
as the remotest of the Tartars; nay, as any nation
for aught I know, in Asia or America. I also found,
which I ohserved to the Muscovite governors, whom
I had opportunity to converse with, that the pagans
are not much the wiser, or the nearer Christiamty, foi
heing under the Mnscovite government; which they
acknowledged was true enough, hut, they said, it was
none of their husiness; that if the czar expected to
sou vert his Siherian, or Tonguese, or Tartar suhjects
<t should he done hy sending clergymen among them,
sot soldiers : and they added, with more smcerity than
I expected, that they found it was not so much tha
concern of their monarch to make the people Chris-
tians, as it was to make them suhjects.
From this river to the great riverOhy, we crossed
a wild uncultivated country; I cannot say 'tis a har-
harous soil; 'tis only harren of people, and wants
good management; otherwise it is in itself a most
Eleasant, fruitful, and agreeahle country. What inha-
itants we found in it are all pagans, except such as
are sent among them from Russia; for this is the
country, I mean on hoth sides the river Ohy, whithei
the Muscovite crimmals, that are not put to death, are
hanished, and from whence it is next to impossihle
they should ever come away.
1 have nothing material to say of my particular
affairs, till I came to Toholski, the capital of Siheria,
where I continued some time, on the following occa-
sion : —
We had heen now almost seven months on our jour-
ney, and winter hegan to come on apace; whereupon
my partner and I called a council ahout nur particular
affairs, in which we found it proper, considering that
we were hound for England, and not for Moscow, to
consider how to dispose of ourselves. They told us
of sledges and rein-deer to carry us over the snow in
the winter-time ; and, indeed, they have such things,
as it would he incredihle to relate the particulars of,
hy which means the Russians travel more in the win-
ter than they can in summer; hecause in these sledges,
they are ahle to run night and day: the snow lieing
fmsea, is one universal covering to nature, hy which
Ine hills, the vales, the rivers, the lakes, are all smooth,
and hard as a stone; and they run upon the surface
without any regard to what is underneath.
But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey
of this kind ; I was hound to England, not to Moscow,
and my route lay two wavs: either I must go on as
tlie caravan went, till I came to Jarislaw, and then go
Vox. 11.—
off west for Narva, and the gulf of Finland, and *s
either hy sea or land to Damzic, where 1 might possi-
hly sell tny China cargo to good advantage: or I musl
leave the caravan at a little town on the Dwina, from
whence I had hut six days hy water to Archangel,
and from thence might he sure of shipping, either to
England, Holland, or Hamhurg.
Now to go any of these journeys in the winter
would have heen preposterous . for as to Dantzic, the
Baltic would he frozen up, and I could not get pas-
tage; and to go hy land in those countries, was far
Uss safe than among the Mogul Tartars; likewise to
Archangel, in Octoher all the ships would he gone
from thence, and even the merchants, who dwell there
in summer, retire south to Moscow in the winter, when
the ships are gone; so 1 should have nothing hut
extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcity of
provisions, and must lie there in an empty town all
the wmter: so that, upon thi whole, 1 thought it
much my hettor way to let the caravan go, and to
make provision to winter where 1 was, rrm. at Tohol-
ski, in Siheria, in the latitude of sixty degrees, where
1 was sure of three things to wear out acnld winter,
with, viz. plenty of provisions, such as the country
afforded, a warm house, with fuel enough, an I excel-
lent company; of all which I shall give a full account
in its place.
I was now in a quite different climate from my
heloved island, where I never felt cold, except when I
had my ague; on the contrary, I had much to do ta
hear my clothes on my hack, and never made any fire
hut without doors, for my necessity, in dressing my
V) I, Stc Now I made me three good vests, with
atge mhes, or gowns over them, tn hang down to the
feet, and hutton close to the wrists, and all these lined
with furs, to make them sufficiently warm.
As tn a warm house, I must confess, I greatly dis-
tike our way in England, of making fires in every
mom m tne house, tn mien chimneys, which, when ti.
Ire was oui, always kept the air in the room cold as
the climate. But taking an apartment in a good house
in the town, 1 ordered a chunney to he huilt like a
furnace, in the centre of six several rooms, like a stove;
the funnel to carry the smoke went up one way, the
door to come at the fire went in another, and all the
rooms were kept equally warm, hut no fires seen ; like
as they heat the hagnios in England.
By this means we had always the same climate in
all the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved; and
how cold soever it was without, it was always warm J
within; and yet we saw no fire, nor were ever incom- J
amded with any smoke. S
The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should $
he possihle to meet with good company here, in a j
country so harharous as that of the most northerly <
part of Kurope, near the Frozen ocean, and within hut S
a very lew degrees of Nova Zemhla. 5
But this heing the country where the state criminals i
of Muscovy, as I ohserved hefore, are all hanished; 5
this city was full of nohlemen, princes, gentlemen, r
colonels, and, in short, all degrees of the nohility, gen- i
try, soldiery, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here were 5
the famous prince Cialifken, or Calnffken, and hii S
son; the oln general Bohostisky, and several other 5
persons of note, and some ladies. X
By means of my Scots merchant, whom, neverthe- i;
? tess, I parted with here, I made an acquaintance with jj
i several of these gentlemen, and some of them of the S
t trst rank: and from these, in the long winter nights, 5
P in which I staid here, I received several agreeahle vi- 5
5 tits. It was talking one night with a certain prince, j
\ one of the hanished ministers of state helonging to the 5
czar of Muscovy, that my talk of my particular case, 5
hegan, lie had heen telling me ahundance of fine i
things, and the greatness, the magnificence, and domi- \
nions, and the ahsolute power of the emperor of the
Russians. I interrupted him, and told h:m I was a 5
greater and more powerful prince than evei the csar J
of Muscovy was, though my dominions were not so c
;


teres, or my people so many. The Russian grandee
looked a little surprised, and fixing his eyes steadily
upon me, hegan to wonder what I meant.
I told him his wonder would cease when I had ex-
plained myself. First, I told him, I had the ahsoluOj
disposal of the lives and fortunes of all my suhjects!
that notwithstanding my ahsolute power, 1 had no*
one person disaffected to my government, or to try
person, in all my dominions He shook his Jiead a
that, and said, there, indeed, I outdid the czar of Mus
covy. 1 told him, that all the lands in my kingdom
were my own, and all my suhjects were not only my
tenants, hut tenants at will; that they would all fight
for me to the last drop; and that never tyrant, for
such 1 acknowledged myself to he, was ever so uni-
versally heloved, and yet so horrihly feared, hy his
suhjects.
After amusing them with these riddles in govern-
ment for awhile, 1 opened the case, and told them the
story at large, of nty living in the island, and how I
managed hoth myself and the people there that were
under me, just as I have since minuted it down.
They were exceedingly taken with the story, and espe-
cially the prince, who told me with a sigh, that tha
true greatness of life, was to he master of ourselves i
that he would not have changed such a state of life as
mine, to have heen czar of Muscovy; and that he
found more felicity in the retirement he seemed to ha
hanished to there, than ever he found in the highest
authority he enjoyed in the court of his master, tha
czar: that the height of human wisdom was to hring
our tempers down to our circumstances, and to make
a calm within, under the weight of the greatest storm
w ithout . When he came first hither, he said, he used
to tear the hair from his head, and the clothes from
his hack, as others had (lori hefore him; hut a little
time and consideration had made him look into him-
self, as well as round himself, to things without: thai
he found the mind of man, if it was hut once hrought
to reflect upon the state o* Universal life, and how

lit tie this world was concerned in its true felicity, was
perfectly capahle of making a felicity foi itself, fully
satisfying to itself, and suitahle to its own hest ends
and desires, with hut very little assistance from tins
world; that air to hreathe in, food to sustain life,
clothes fur warmth, and liherty for exercise, in ordei
to health, completed, in his opinion, all that the world
coiid do for us i and though the greatness, the autho-
rity, the riches, and the pleasures, which some enjoy-
ed in the world, and which he had enjoyed his share
of, had much in them that was agreeahle to us, vet
he ohserved, that all those thmgs chiefly gratified the
coarsest of nur affections; such as our amhition, our
particular pride, our avarice, our vanity, and our sen-
suality; all which were, indeed, the mere product ol
the worst part of man, were in themselves crimes;
and had in them the seeds of all manner of crimes;
hut neither were related to, or concerned with, any of
those virtues that constituted us wise men,or of those
graces which distinguished us as Christians; that he-
ing now deprived of all the fancied felicity which he
enjoyed in the full exercise of all those vices, he said
he was at leisure to look upon the dark side of them
where he found all manner of deformity, and was
bow convinced, that virtue only makes a man truly
wise, rich, and great, and preserves him in the way
to a superior happiness in a future state; and in this
he said, they were more happy in their hanishment,
than all their enemies were, who had the full posses-
sion of at. the wealth and power that they (the ha-
nished) had left nehind them.
"Nor, sir," said he, " do 1 hring my mind to hie
politically, hy the necessity of my circumstances,
which some call miserahle; hut if I know any thing
ol myself, I would not go haek, no, not though my
master, the czar, should call me, and offer to reinstate
me in all my former grandeur; I say, 1 would no
more go hack to it, than 1 lielievc my soul, when it
shall he delivered from this prison of the hody, and
has had a taste uf the glrrious state heyond life, would

come hack to the gaol of flesh and hlood it is ivm
enclosed in, and leave Heaven to deal in the dirt and
grime of human affairs."
He spake this with so much warmth in his temper,
so much earnestness and motion of his spirits, which
were apparent in his countenance, that it was evident
it was the true sense of his soul; and indeed then
was no room to douht his sincerity.
I told him, I once thought myself a kind of a mo-
narch in my old station, of which I had given him an
account, hut that I thought he was not a monarch
only, hut a great conqueror ; for that he that has got
a victory over his own exorhitant desires, and has the
ahsolute dominion over himself, and whise reasor
entirely governs his will, is certainly greater than he
that conquers a city. "But, my lord," said I," shall
I take the liherty to ask you a question ?"—" With
all tny heart," said he. "If the door of your liherty
was opened, " said I," would not you take hold of it
to deliver yourself from this exile?"
'' Hold/' said he, " your question is suhtle, and
requires some serious just disunctions to give it a sin-
cere answer ; and I'll give it you from the hottom of
my heart . Nothing that I know of in this world
would move me to deliver myself from the state of
hanishment, except these two: first, the enjoyment of
my relations ; and secondly, a little warmer climate.
But 1 protest to you, that to go hack to the pomp of
the court, the glory, the power, the hurry of a ministet
of state; the wealth, the gayety, and the pleasures,
that is to say, follies of a courtier; if my master should
send me word this moment, that he restores me tn all
be hanished me from, I protest, if I know mysetf at
til, I would not leave this wilderness, these deserts
and these frozen lakes, for the palace of Moscow."
"But my lord," said I,'t perhaps you not only
are hanished from the pleasures of the court, and from
the power, and authority, and wealth, you enjoyed
hefore, hut you may he ahsent too from some of the
conveniences of life; your estate perhaps, coofiacmt*
erl, and your effects plundered : and the supplies left
you here may not he suitahle to the ordinary demands
of life."
"Ay," said he, " that is, as you suppose me to ha
a lord, or a prince, &c. So indeed I am; hut you
are now to consider me only as a man, a human crea-
ture, not at all distinguished from another ; and so I
can suffer no want, unless I should he visited with
sickness and distempers However, to put the ques-
tion out of dispute; you see our manner; we are in
this place five persons of rank : we live perfectly re-
tired, as suiter! to a state of hanishment. we have
something rescued from the shipwreck of our fortune*
which keeps us from the mere necessity of hunting
for our food ; hut the poor soldiers who are here, with-
out that help, live in as much plenty as we. They go
into the woods, and catch sahles and foxes; the la-
hour of a month will maintain them a year ; and as
the way of living is not expensive, so it is not hard to
get sufficient to ourselves ; so that ohjection is out of
doors."
I have no room to give a lull account of the most
agreeahle conversation I had with this truly great
man : in all which he showed, that his mind was so
.inspired with a superior knowledge of things, so sup-
ported hy religion, as well as hy a vast share of wis-
dom, that his contempt of the world was really as
much as he had expressed, and that he was always
the same to the last, as will appear in the story I am
going to tell.
I h*d heen here eight months, and a dark dreadful
winter I thought it to he. The cold was so intense,
-hat 1 could not so much as look ahroad without he-
ng wrapt in furs, and a mask of fur liefore my face
or rather a hood, with only a hole for hreath, and
two for sight. The little daylight we had. as we reck,
oned, for three months, not ahove five hours a day,
or six at most: only that the snow lying on the ground
continually, and the weather heing clear, it was never
quite dark. Our horses were kept (or rather starved)
under ground; and as for our servants, (for we hired
servants here to look after our horses and ourselves)
we had every now and [hen their fingers and toes us
thaw, and take care of, lest they should mortify and
fall off.
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses
heing close, the walls thick, ihe lights small, and the
Slass all douhle. Our food was chiefly the flesh of
eer, dried and cured in the season; good hread
enough, hut naked as hiscuits; dried fish of several
sorts, and some flesh of mutton, and of huffaloes, which
is pretty good heef. All the stores of provisions for
the winter are laid up in the summer, and well cured.
Our drink was water mixed with aqua-vitae instead
of hrandy; and, for a treat, mead instead of wine;
which, however, they have excellent good. The hun-
ters, who ventured ahroad all weathers, frequently
hrought us in fresh venison, very fat and gooa; and
sometimes hear's flesh, hut we did not much care for
the last. We had a good stock of tea, with which wc
treated our friends as ahove; and in a word, we lived
very cheerfully and well, all things considered.
It was now March, and the days grown consider-
ahly longer, and the weather at least tolerahle; so
other travellers hegan to prepare sledges to carry them
over the snow, and to get things ready to he going \
hut my measures heing fixed, asl have said, for Arch-
angel, and not for Muscovy or the Baltic, I made no
motion, knowing very well, that the ships from the
south do not set out for that part of the world til]
May or June; and that if 1 was thereat the heginning
of August, it would he as soon as any ships would he
ready to go away; and therefore, I say, I made no
baste to he gone, as others did; in a word, I saw a
great many people, nay. all the travellers, go away
Before me. It seems, every year they go from thence
to Moscow for trade; viz. to carry furs, and huy ne-
cessaries with them, which they hring hack to fur-
nish their shops; also others went on the same errand
to Archangel; hut then they also hemg to come hack
231
again ahove eight hundred miles, went all out hefore
me.
In short, ahout thu latter end of May, I hegan to
make all ready to pack up; and as I was doing this,
it occurred to me, that seeing all these people were
hamshed hy the csar of Muscovy to Siheria, and yet,
when they came there, were at liherty to go whither
thev would; whv did they not then go away to any
part of the world wherever they thought fit? and I ho
pan to examine what should hinder them from mak
ing such an attempt.
But mv wonder was over when I entreated upon
that suhject with the person I have mentioned, who
answered me thus -"Consider, first," said he, " the
place where we are; and, secondly, the condition we
are in; especiallv," said he, "the generality of the
people who are hanished hither. We are surround-
ed," said he, " with stronger things than hars and
holts: on the north side it is an unnavigahle ocean,
where ship never sailed, and hoat never swam; nei-
ther, if we had Jtoth, could we know whither to go
with them. Every other way," said he, "we have
ahove a thousand miles to pass through the czar's own
dominions, and hv ways utterly impassahle, except
hy the roads made hy the government, and through
the towns garrisoned hy its troops; so that we could
neither pass undiscovered hv the road, or suhsist any
acher way - so that it is in vain to attempt it.
I was silenced indeed, at once, and found that they
were in a prison, every jot as secure as if they had
heen tocked up in the castle ot Moscow; however, i•
came into my thoughts, that I might certainly he made
an instrument to procure the escape of this excellent
person, and that it was very easy for me to carry him
away, there heing no guard over him in the country;
and as I was not going to Moscow, hut to Archangel,
and that I went in the nature of a caravan, hy which
1 was not ohliged to lie in the stationarv towns in the
desert, hut could encamp everv night where I would,
wa might easily pass uninterrupted to Archangel,
what I could immediately secure him on hoard Mt
English or Dutch ship, and carry him off safe along
with me; and as to his suhs:stence, and other parti-
culars, that should he my care, till he should hetter
supply himself,
He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly
on me all the while I spoke; nay, I could see in his
«erv face, that what I said put hts spirits into an ex-
ceeding ferment; his colour frequently changed, his
eyes looked red, and his heart fluttered, that it might
he even perceived in his countenance; nor could he
Immediately answer me when I had done, and, as if
were, expected what he would say to it; and after he
had paused a little, he emhraced me, and said, '' How
unhappy are we, unguided creatures as we are, that
even our greatest acts of friendship are made snares
to us, and we are made tempters of one another! My
dear friend," said l:e, your offer is so sincere, has
such kindness in it, is so disinterested in itself, and is
so calculated for myadvantage, that I must hare very
little knowledge of the world, if I sjid not hoth won
der at it, and acknowledge the ohligation I have
upon me to you for it: hut did you helieve I was sin-
cere in what I have so often said to you of my con-
tempt of the world? Did you helieve I spoke my
very soul to you, and that 1 had reaily maintained that
degree of felicity hete, that had placed me ahove all
that the world could give me, or do for me? Did you
helieve I was sincere, when I told you I would not
go hack, if I was recalled even to he all that once I
was in the court . and with the favour of the czar my
master? Did you helieve me, my friend, to he an ho-
nest man, or did you think me to he a hoasting hypo-
crite ?" Here he stopped, as if he would hear what I
would say; hut, indeed, I soon after perceived, that
he stopped hecause his spirits were in motion: his heart
was full of struggles, and he could not go on I was,
I confess, astonished at the thing, as well as at the
man, and I used some arguments with him to urge
him to set himself free; that he ought to look upon
thit as a door opened hy Heaven for his deliverance,
ami a summons hy Providence, who has the can.' and
good disposition of all events, to do himself good, and
to render himself useful in the world.
He had hy this time recovered himself. "How
do you know, sir," said oe, warmly, " hut that, in-
stead of a summons from Heaven, it may he a feint
of another instrument, representing, in ail the alluring
colojrs to me the show of felicity as a deliverance,
which may in itself he my snare, and tend directly to
my ruin ? Here I am free from the temptation of re'
turning totny former miserahle greatness; there I am
not sure, hut that all the seeds of pride, amhition,
avarice, and luxury, which I know remain in my na-
ture, may revive and take root, and in a word, again
overwhelm me ; and then the happy prisoner, whom
you see now master of his soul's liherty, shall he tha
miserahle slave of his own senses, in the full posses-
sion of all personal liherty. Dear sir, let me remain
in this hlessed confinement, hanished from the Crimea
of life, rather than purchase a show of Ireedom at tha
expense of the liherty of my reason, and at the ex-
pense of the future happiness which now I have in my
view, hut shall then, I fear, quickly lose sight of;
for I am hut flesh, a man, a mere man,-have passions
and affections as likely to possess and overthrow ma
as any man: O he not my friend and my tempter
hoth together!''
If I was surprised hefore, I was quite dumh now,
and stood silent, looking at him; and, indeed, admir-
ed what I saw. The struggle in his soul was so great,
that, though the weather was extremely cold, it put
him into a most violent sweat, and I found he wanted
.o give vent to his mind ; so I said a word or two
hat I would leave him to consider of it, and wait on
hun again ; and then I withdrew to my own apars-
ment.
Ahout two hours after, I heard some hody at as
near the door of the room, and I was going to open
the door; hut he had opened it, and cutne in: " My
TO4
LIFE AND ADVETTURES
dear friend," said he, " you had almost overset me^
hut I am recovered: do not take it ill that I do not
Close with your offer; I assure you, it is not for want
of a sense of the kmdness of it in you; and I come
to make the most sincere acknowledgment of it to you j
hut, 1 hope, I have got the victory over myself."
"My Lord," said I, " I hope you are fully satie-
fied, that you did not resist the call of Heaven."—
"Sir," said he, " if it had heen from Heaven, the
TO4
hut I nope, and am fully satisfied, that it is from
Heaven that 1 decline it; and I have an infinite satis-
faction in the departing, that you shall leave me an ho-
nest man still, though not a free man."
I had nothing to do hut to acquiesce, and make
profession to him of my having no end in it, hut a
sincere desire to serve him. He emhraced me very
passionately, and assured me, he was sensihle of that,
and should always acknowledge it: and with that he
offered me a very fine present of sahles, too much
indeed for me to accept from a man in his circum-
stances ; and I would have avoided them, hut he would
not he refused.
The next morning I sent my servant to his lord-
ship, with a small present of tea, two pieces of China
damask, and four little wedges of Japan gold, which
did not all weigh ahove six ounces, or thereahouts t
but were far short of the value of his sahles, which in-
deed, when I came to England, I found worth near
two hundred pounds. He accepted the tea, and one
piece of the damask, and one of the pieces of gold,
which had a fine stamp upon it, of the Japan coinage,
which I found he took for the rarity of it, hut would
not take any more; and sent word hy my servant,
that he desired to speak with me.
When I came to him, he told me, I knew what
had passed hetween us, and hoped I would not mcve
him any more in that affair; hut that, since I made
tuch a generous offer to him, he asked me, if I had
kindeas enough to offer the same to another person

tfnt he would name to me, in whom he la' a great
share ot concern. I told him, ihat 1 could not say I
inclined to do so much for any one hut himself, for
whom I had a particular value, and should have heen
clad to have heen the instrument of his deliverance:
however, if he would please to name the person to
me, I would give him my answer, and hoped he would
not he displeased with me, if he was with my answer.
He told me, it was only his son, who, though 1 had
not seen, yet was in the same condition with him'
self, and ahove two hundred miles from him, on the
other side the Ohy; hut that, if I consented, he would
•end for him.
I made no hesitation, hut told him I would do it.
I made some ceremony in letting him understand that
it was wholly on his account; and that teeing I could
not prevail on him, I would show my respect to him
hy my concern for his son: hut these thmgs are too
tedious to repeat here. He sent away the next day
for his son, and in ahout twenty days he came hack
with the messenger, hringing six or seven horses loaded
with very rich furs, and which, in the whole amount-
ed to a very great value.
His servants hrought the horses into the town, hut
left the young lord at a distance till night, when lie
came incognito into our apartment, and his father
presented him to me; and, in short, we concerted
there the manner of our travelling, and everything
proper for the journey.
I had hought a considerahle quan tity of sahles, hlack
fox-skins, fine ermmes, and such other furs that are
very rich: I say, I had hought them in that city for
exchange for some of the goods hrought from China;
in particular, for the cloves and nutmegs, of which I
sold the greatest part here ; and the rest afterwards at
Archangel, for a much hetter price than I could have
done at London ; and my partner, who was sensihle
of the pmht, and whose husiness, more particularly
than mine, was merchandise, was mightily pleased
with our stay! on account of the traffic we made Item.

It was in the heginning of June when I teft t1n•
remote place, a city, I believe, little heard of in the
world; and, indeed, it is so far out of the road of
commerce, that I know not how it should he much
talked of. We were now come to a very small cara
van, heing only thirty-two horses and camels in all,
and all of them passed for mine, though my new
guest was proprietor of eleven of them. It was most
natural also, that 1 should take more servants with
me than I had hefore, and the young lord passed for
my steward, what great man I passed for myself I
know not, neither did it concern me to inquire. We
had here the worst and the largest desert to pass over
that we met with in all the journey; indeed, I call it
the worst, hecause the way was very deep in some
places, and very uneven in others; the hest wefhad to
•ay for, it was, that we thought we had no troops of
Tartars and rohhers to fear, and that they never came
on this side the river Ohy, or at least hut very sel-
dom; hut we found it otherwise.
My young lord had with him a faithful Muscovite
servant, or rather a Siherian servant, who was per
fectly acquainted with the country; and who led us
hy private roads, that we avoided coming into the
principal towns and cities upon the great mad, such
as Tumen, Soloy, Kamaskoy, and several others; he-
cause the Muscovite garrisons, which are kept there,
are very curious and strict in their ohservation on
travellers, and searching, least any of the hanished per-
sons of note should make their escape that way mto
Muscovy; hut hy this means, as we were kept out of
the cities, so our whole journey was a desert, and we
were ohliged to encamp and lie in our tents, when
we might have had good accomodation in the cities
on the way: this the young lord was so sensihle of,
that he would not allow us to lie ahroad, when we
came to several cities on the way; hut lay ahroad him-
self, with his servant, in the woods, and met us al-
ways at the appointed places.
We were just entered Europe, having passed the
287
river Kama, which, in these parts, is the houndary
hetween Kurope and Asia; and the first city on Jhe
European side was called Soloy Kamaskov, which is
as much as to say, the great city on the river Kama;
and here we thought to have seen some evident alte-
ration in the people, their manners, their hahit, their
religion, and their husiness; hut we were mistaken;
or as we had a vast desert to pass, which, hy rela-
ion, is near seven hundred miles long in some placess
hut not ahove two hundred miles over where we
passed it; so, till we came past that horrihle place,
tve found very little difference hetween that country
and the Mogul Tartary; the people mostly Pagans,
and little hetter than the savages of America; their
houses and towns full of idols, and their way of l:ving
wholly harharous, except in the cities as ahove, and
the villages near them; where they are Christians, as
they call themselves, of the Greek church, hut even
these have their religion mingled with so many relics
of superstition, that it is scarce to he known :n some
places from mere sorcery and witcheraft.
In passing this forest, I thought indeed we must,
after all our dangers were, in our imagination, escap-
ed, as hefore, have heen plundered and rohhed, and
perhaps murdered, hy a troop of thieves: of what
country they were; whether the roving hands of the
Ostiachi, a kind of Tartars, or wild people on th•
hanks of the Ohy, had ranged thus far; or whether
they were the sahle hunters of Siheria, I am yet at a
loss to know: hut they were all on horsehack,carried
hows and arrows, and were at first ahout five-and-
Ihrty in numher. They came so near to us as within
ahout two musket shot; and, asking no questiong
they surrounded us with their horses, and looked very
earnestly upon us twice. At length they placed them-
selves just in our way; upon which we drew up in
a little line hefore our camels, heing not ahove sixteen
men in all; and heing drawn up tlms, we halted,
and sent out the Siherian servant who attended hia
wrd, to see who they were: his master was the more

willing to let him go, hecause he was not a little ap-
prehensive that they were a Siherian troop sent out
after him. The man came up near them with a flag
of truce, and called to them; hut though he sfoke
several of their languages, or dialects of languages ra-
ther, he could not understand a word they said: how*
ever, after some signs to him not to come nearer to
them at his peril, so he said he understood them to
mean, offeritig to shoot at him if he advanced, tha
fellow came hack no wiser than he went only that
hy their dress he said, he helieved them to he some
Tartars of Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hordes; and
that there must he more of them on the great desert,
though he never heard that ever any of them were
teen so far north hefore.
This was small comfort to us; however, we had no
remedy: there waa on our left hand, at ahout a quar
terof a mile's distance, a little grove or clump of
trees, which stood close together, and very near the
mad; I immediately resolved we should advance to
those trees, and fortify ourselves as well as we could
there; for, first, 1 considered that the trees would in a
great measure cover us from their arrows; and in the
next place, they could not come to charge us in a
hody, it was, indeed, my old Portuguese pilot who
proposed it; and who had this excellency attending
him, namely, that he was always readiest and most
apt to direct and encourage us in cases of the most
danger. We advanced immediately with what speed
we could, and gained that little wood, the Tartars, or
thieves, for we knew not what to call them, keeping
their stand, and not attempting to hinder us. When
we came thither, we found, to our great satisfaction,
that it was a swampy, springy, piece of ground, and
on the other side, a great sprmg of water, which, run-
ning out in a little rill or hrook, was a little farther
joined hy another of the like higness; and was, in
short, the head ouource of a considerahle river, called
afterwards the Wirtska. The trees which grew ahout
this spring, were not in all ahove two hundred, but
were very large, and stood pretty thick; so that as
soon as we got in, we saw ourselves perfectly safe
from the enemy, unless they alighted and attacked us
an foot.
But to make this more difficult, our Portuguese,
with indefatigahle application, cut down great arms
of the trees, and laid them hanging not cut quite oft,
from one tree to another; so that he made a conti-
nued fence almost round us
We staid here, waiting the motion of the enemy
some hours without perceiving they made any offer
to stir; when ahout two hours hefore night, they came
down directly upon us; and, though we had not per-
ceived it, we found they had heen joined hy some
more of the same, so that they were near fourscore
horse, whereof, however, we fancied some were wo-
men. Theycame in till they were within half a shot
of our little wood, when we fired one musket without
hall, and called to them in the Russian tongue, to
know what they wanted, and hid them keep off; hut
as if they knew nothing of what we said, they came
on with a douhle fury, directly to the wood-side, not
Imagining we were so harricaded, that they could not
Dreak in. Our old pilot was our captain as well as
he had heen our engineer; and desired of us, not to
fire upon them till they came within pistol shot, that
we might he sure to kill; and that, when we did fire,
wo should he sure to take good aim. We hade him
give the word of command; which he delayed so long
that they were, some of them, within two pikes length
of us wh6n we fired.
We aimed so true, (or Providence directed our shot
o sure) that we killed fourteen of them at the first
volley, and wounded several others, as also several of
heir horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces,
with two or three hullets a peace at least.
They were terrihly surprised with our fire, and re-
treated immediately ahout one hundred rods from us,
.n which time we loaded our pieces again, and, see-
eiftihem keep that distance, we sallied out, and caught
VOL II 19
four or five of their hones, whose riders, we suppos*
e.t, were ktlled, and cotning up to the dead, we could
easily perceive they were Tartars, hut knew not from
what country, or how they came to make an excur'
sion of such an unusual length.
Ahout an hour after, they n^de a motion to attack
as again, and rode round our l:ttle wood, to see when)
else they mtght hreak in, hut finding us always ready
to face them they went ufT again, and we resolved
not to stir from the place that night.
We slept hut liitle, you may he sure; hut spent the
most part of the night in strengthening our situation,
and harricading the entrances into the wood; and,
keeping a strict watch, we waited for daytight, and,
wlten it came, it gave us a very unwelcome discovery
indeed: for the enemy, who we thought were discou-
raged with the receptton they had met with, were now
increased to no less than three hundred, and had set
up eleven or twelve huts or tents, as if they were
revived to hestege us; and this little camp they had
p:tched, was upon the open plain, at ahout three quar-
ters of a mile from us. We were indeed surprised at
this discovery; and now, I confess, 1 gave myself
ov t for lost, and all that I had. The loss of my ef-
fects did not lie so near me (though they were very
considerahle) as the thoughts of falling into the hands
of such harharians, at the latter end of my journey,
after so many difficulties and hazards at I had gone
through; and even in stght of our port, where we ex-
pected safety and deliverance. As for my partner,
he was ragtng: he declared, that to lose his goods
would he his ruin; and he would rather die than ha
starved; and he was for fighting to the tast drop.
The young lord, as gallant as ever flesh showed it
self, was for fighting to the last also; and my old pik>
was of the opinion we were ahle to resist them all,
m the situation we then were in: and thus we spei*
the day in dehates of what we should do; hut toward
sveumg, we found that the numher of our enemies
•Hl l Increased: perhaps, as they were ahroad id seve-
ral parties for prey, the first had sent out scouts tc
call for help, and to acquaint ihemof their hooty; and
we did not know hut hy the morning they might still
he a greater numher; so I hegan to inquire of those
people we had hrought from Toholski, if there were
no other, or more private ways, hy which we might
avoid them in the night, and perhaps either retreat to
some town, or get help to guard us over the desert.
The Siherian, who was servant to the young lord,
told us, if we designed to avoid them, and not fight,
he would engage to carry us off in the night hy a way
that went north toward the river PetraE, hy which
he made no douht hut we might get away, and the
Tartars never the wiser; hut he said, his lord had told
him he would not return, hut would rather choose to
6ght. I told him, he mistook his lord; fcr that he
was too wise a man to love fighting for the sake of it;
that I knew his lord was hrave enough hy what ha
had showed already; hut that his lord knew hetter
than to desire to have seventeen or eighteen men fight
Ave hundred, unless an unavoidahle necessity forced
them to it; and that if he thought it possihle for-os to
escape in the night, we had nothing else to do hut to
attempt it. He answered if his lord gave him such
order, he would lose his life if he did not perform it
We soon hrought his lord to give that order, though
privately, and we immediately prepared for the put-
ting it in practice.
And first, as soon as it hegan to he dark, we kindled
a fire in our little camp, which we kept hurning, and
prepared so as to male it hurn all mght, that the
Tartars might conclude we were sull there; hut, as
soon as it was dark, that is to say, so as we could see
the stars, (for our guard would not stir hefore) having
all our horses and camels ready loaded, we followed
our new guide, who, I soon found, steered himself
hy the pole or north star, all the country heing level
tor a long way.
After we had travelled two hours very hard, it ho-
gau Co ho lighter still; not that it was quite dark ai
night, hut the moon hegan to rise, so that, m short,
It was rather lighter than we wished it to he; hut hy
six o'clock next morning we were gotten near forty
miles, though the truth is, we almost spoiled our
horses. Here we found a Russian viltage, named Kir-
n-azinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of
the Kalmuck Tartars that -lav Ahout two hours he-
fore night we set out again, and travelled till eight the
next morning, though not quite so hastily as hefore;
and ahout seven o'clock we passed a little river, called
Kirtxa, and came to a good large town inhahited hy
Russians, and very populous, called Ozomys. '1 here
we heard, that several troops or herds of Kalmucks
had heen ahroad upon the desert, hut that we were
now completely out of danger of them, which was to
our gtea, tntisfaction, you may he sure. Here we
were ohl,ged to get some fresh horses, and having
need enough of rest, we staid five days; and my part-
ner and I agreed to give the honest Siherian, who
hrought us hither, the value of ten pistoles for his con-
duct:ng us.
In five days more we came to Veussima, upon the
river Witzogria, which running into the river Dwina,
we were there verv happily near the end of our tra-
vels hy land, that river heing navigahle in seven days
passage to Archangel. From hence we came to Law-
renskoy, where the river joins, the third of July, and
provided ourselves with two luggage-hoats, and a
barge, for our convenience. We emharked the se-
venth, and arrived all safe at Archangel the eighteenth,
having heen a year, five mouths, and three days on
the journey, including our stay of e:ght months and
odd days at Toholski.
We were ohliged to stay at this plane six weeks for
the arrival of the ships, and must nave tarried longer,
had not a Hamhurgher come in alwve a month sooner
than any of the English ships; when after some con-
sideration, that the city of Hamhurgh might happen to
o» as good a market foi our goods as London, we all
esok freight with him; and having put our goods on
hoard, it was most natural lor me to put my steward
on hoard to take care of them; hy which means my
young lord had a sufficient oppoitunity to conceal
himself, never coming on shore again in all the tima
we staid there; and this he did, that he migh' not he
seen in the city, where some of the Moscow merchants
would certainly have seen and disn vered him.
We sailed fiom Archangel the twtntieth of August
the same year: and, after no extraordinary had voy-
age, arrived in the Elhe the thirteenth of Septemher.
Here my partner and 1 found a very good sale lor
our goods, as well those of China, ai the sahles, &c.
of S:hera ; and dividing the produce of our effects, my
sharear. ounted to 3475/. 17s. 3d. notwithstanding
so many losses we had sustained, and cnarges we had
heen at only rememhering that I had included, in
this, ahout 600/. worth of diamonds, which I had
purchased at Bengal.
Here the young lord took his leave of us, and weuft
np to the Elhe, in order to go to the court of Vienna,
where he resolved to seek protection, and where he
could conespond with those of his father's friends
who were left al:ve. He aM not part without all the
testimonies he could give of gratitude for the service
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
prince his father.
To courlude having stain near four months in Ham*
hurgh, I came from thence over land to the Hague,
where I emharked in the packet, and arrived in
London, the tenth of January, 1705, having heen gona
from England ten years and nine months.
And here, revolving to harass myself no nxre, I
am preparing for a longer journey than all these, hav-
ktr lived seventy-two years a life of infinite variety,
and learnt sufficiently to know the value of retire-
swat, and the hlessing of ending our days in
FINIS.

\
1

This book should be returned to
the Library on or before the last date
stamped below.
A fine of five cents a day is incurred
by retaining it beyond the specified
time.
Please return promptly.
