LIFE OF COLONEL JACK.
ANOTHER ROBINSON CRUSOE.
BY
DANIEL DEFOE.
This curious and interesting book, by the author of Robin-
son Crusoe, and exactly in the style of that celebrated
work, has never, it is believed, been published in
America. Much of the scene of it is laid
near the site of The City of Washing-
ton, and it has been pronounced to
be the very best picture which
was ever given of white
slavery in Virginia.
BOSTON:
J. STILMAN SMITH & CO.

Copyright, 1891,
By J. STTLMAN SMITH AND COMPANY.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.
Introduction — I am Deserted by my Parents Almost as Soon
as Born —Nicknamed 0}' my Nurse Colonel Jack — Charac-
ters of the Three Jacks — Colonel Jack, Captain Jack, and
Major Jack — Nurse Dies, and We are Turned Loose Upon
the World — Captain Jack Flogged for Roguery — We Pick
Pockets 1
CHAPTER II.
I Get Acquainted with One of the Most Noted Pickpockets in
Town —We Steal a Letter-case Full of Bills —Dreadfully
Distressed How to Dispose of my Share of the Booty — My
Comrade Proposes I Shall Return the Bills and Get the
Reward Promised — Proceedings Thereupon 15
CHAPTER III.
I am Examined by the Gentlemen Touching the Bills and
Letter-case, and Obtain the Reward of 301. — One of Them
Kindly Takes Charge of the Money for Me — We Commit
More Thefts — My Comrade Purchases Better Clothes for
Me —I Rob a Jew of His Pocket-book Full of Bills and
Diamonds — Will Agrees for a Reward to Give Up the
Property 30
CHAPTER IV.
Will Returns the Pocket-book and Obtains the Reward — We
Rob an Old Knight in Smithfield of a Bag of Money — Other
Adventures, in All of Which We are Successful — The
Notion of My Being a Gentleman, Which I Always Enter-
iv
CONTENTS
tain, Keeps Me From Swearing, Drinking, and Such Like
Vices — Will Seduces Me to Become Highwayman — Adven-
tures on the Road 48
CHAPTER V.
My New Profession Very Hateful to Me — Will is in Great
Danger of Being Taken for a Housebreaking at Hounslow —
He Leaves His Plunder Under My Bed — I Meet With Him
by Accident, and Receive His Directions How to Dispose of
the Stolen Goods — I Meet Captain Jack, who Informs Me
Will is Committed to Newgate — I Pay a Visit to My Old
Friend Mentioned in the Third Chapter— Conversation With
Him — 1 am Apprehended — Consequences Thereof. . . 64
chapter vi.
I Visit Will, My Tutor in Wickedness, in Newgate — He is
Executed —I Enlist for a Soldier— We Desert — Adventures
Thereupon 80
CHAFfER VII.
We are Kidnapped, and Carried on Board Ship by a Virginia
Captain — Make the Coast of Virginia in 32 Days — Captain
Jack Makes His Escape — A Peep into Futurity — I am
Sold, Along with the Others, to a Rich Planter — My Master
Holds a Long Conversation with Me, and in Consequence of
My Good Behavior Puts Me in a Place of Trust. ... 89
CHAPTER VIII.
A Stumble at the Threshold of My New Office — I Study to
Render the Negroes Obedient Without Punishment, and Suc-
ceed— Our Master Visits the Plantation — Conversation with
Him — I Gain His Good Graces More and More — Fidelity of
a Negro 101
CHAPTER IX.
My Master Gives Me My Liberty, and Puts Me Into a Planta-
tion for Myself— Proceedings as a Planter — I Get My Bill
Cashed in London, and a Sorted Parcel of Goods Sent Out
V
for its Amount — The Greatest Part of Them are Lost at the
Mouth of the Bay — Reflections 124
CHAPTER X.
I Advance Rapidly to Riches and Honor for Twelve Years —
My Benefactor Dies — I Embark for England — Am Taken
by a French Privateer — The Privateer Takes Another Eng-
lish Ship — Account of Her Cargo 133
CHAPTER XI.
We Land at Bordeaux, in France — I Get Rid of My Captain
Without Paying Ransom, and Arrive at Ghent, Where I Join
the Army — Proceedings There — T Arrive in London, and
Hear News of Major Jack — I Return to France — Obtain a
Company in a Regiment — Further Adventures—I Sell My
Company and Embark in the French Fleet 142
CHAPTER XII.
I Return to Virginia — Sail for Antigua — We are Chased by a
Brigantine and Sloop, Privateers — During the Chase They
Discover an English Man-of-war and Sheer Off — Arrive Safe
at Antigua — Transactions on My Voyage to Virginia. . 155
CHAPTER XIII.
I Make a Very Profitable Voyage — I Fit Up My Sloop for
Defence, and Sail Again for the West Indies — After Vari-
ous Changes of Fortune I Return to England Wealthy —
Conclusion 172
PREFACE.
Colonel Jack has long been recognized as the most
important of De-Foe's novels with the exception of Rob-
inson Crusoe.
But its circulation as compared with the enormous cir-
culation of Robinson Crusoe has been trifling, and at the
moment I write these lines I do not know that any edi-
tion has ever been published in the United States.
This seems at first sight curious, but I believe the fact
is readily explained. The story as De Foe wrote it was
evidently "padded," as publishers say now, to make it
long enough for sale, and while the real novel is thor-
oughly American, and its important movement is all in
this country, the long episodes in the original break the
flow of the story, and entirely, as I think, destroy its
interest as a single novel. They make it two or three
novels awkwardly patched together.
Now it is certainly very interesting that, while in Rob-
inson Crusoe, De-Foe took for his hero an English
slaveholder, shipwrecked on a voyage to the Guinea
coast for more slaves in the slave trade, he should take
in Colonel Jack a white slave bound in the slavery of the
American colonies. De-Foe had one or more sons in
America, and knew all about the system of white slavery
which is called "apprenticeship" by the tender writers.
In Colonel Jack he has left by far the best description
we have of this system, and it gives to this novel a spe-
cial interest that it does present the life of the slave in
comparison with that other greatest of novels which is
given to the fortunes of a slaveholder.
I first read this story when I was at Fort Monroe in
1863, at a period of a good deal of interest to slaves and
slaveholders. I was the guest of the distinguished gen-
eral who had added a new meaning to the word "con-
traband," and had had as much as any man to do in
improving the relationship between slaves and their
masters. As it happened, I read the book in his copy,
and it was he who called my attention to the curious fact
that Daniel De-Foe, the greatest of novelists, had the
foresight to choose a place so near the present city of
Washington for the scene of his great American story.
If any important writer of romance had before that time
chosen for his scene of action the region which is now
the United States, I do not remember it.
Since 1863, then, I have been eager to publish an
Americanized edition of Colonel Jack. As all modern
editors of Robinson Crusoe omit the third volume, which
contains his religious experiences, I have proposed to
omit or abridge the unimportant European episodes.
When the publishers of the Every Day Library asked
me to edit that series, my first suggestion was that they
should print this forgotten American story. With the
assistance of my son, I have abridged it on the lines
which I have indicated. I believe the reader will agree
with me in thinking that many of the chapters are to be
ranked among De-Foe's very best. The book certainly
deserves a foremost place, not only in the history of
slavery in America, but for the interest of the story and
the light which it throws on the economic history of the
time.
EDWARD E. HALE.
Office of Lend a Hand, Boston, Oct. 22, 1890.
THE LIFE
OF
COLONEL JACK.
CHAPTER I.
INTRODUCTION I AM DESERTED BY MY PARENTS ALMOST
AS SOON AS BORN NICKNAMED BY MY NURSE COLONEL
JACK CHARACTERS OF THE THREE JACKS COLONEL
JACK, CAPTAIN JACK, AND MAJOR JACK NURSE DIES,
AND WE ARE TURNED LOOSE UPON THE WORLD CAP-
TAIN JACK FLOGGED FOR- ROGUERY WE PICK POCKETS.
My original may be as high as anybody's for aught I
know. My nurse told me my mother was a gentlewoman,
that my father was a man of quality, and she (my nurse)
had a good piece of money given her to take me.
She was as honest to the engagement she had entered
into as could be expected from one of her employment,
and particularly as honest as her circumstances would
give her leave to be; for she bred me up very carefully
with her own son, and with another boy like me, whom
she had taken upon the same terms.
My name was John, as she told me, but neither she nor
I knew anything of a surname that belonged to me; so I
was left to call myself Mr. Anything, what I pleased, as
COLONEL JACK.
fortune and better circumstances should give occasion.
It happened that her own son (for she had a little boy
of her own, about one year older than I,) was called John,
too; and about two years after she took another boy to
keep as she did me, and his name was John, too.
As we were all Johns we were all Jacks, and soon came
to be called so; for at that part of the town where we
had our breeding, viz., near Goodman's-fields, the Johns
are generally called Jack; but my nurse, who may be
allowed to distinguish her own son a little from the rest,
would have him called Captain, because, forsooth, he was
the eldest.
I was provoked at having this boy called captain, and I
cried, and told my nurse I would be called captain; for
she told me I was a gentleman, and I would be a captain,
that I would. The good woman, to keep the peace, told
me ay, ay, I was a gentleman, and therefore I should be
above a captain, for I should be a colonel, and that was
a great deal better than a captain; for, my dear, says
she, eveiy tar-pauling, if he gets but to be lieutenant of
a press smack, is called captain, but colonels are soldiers,
and none but gentlemen are ever made colonels; besides,
says she, I have known colonels come to be lords and
generals, and therefore you shall be called colonel.
Well, I was hushed indeed with this for the present,
but not thoroughly pleased till a little while after I heard
her tell her own boy that I was a gentleman, and there-
fore he must call me colonel; at which her boy fell a-cry-
ing, and he would be called colonel. That part pleased
me to the life, that he should cry to be called colonel, for
then I was satisfied that it was above a captain. So uni-
versally is ambition seated in the minds of men that not
a beggar-boy but has his share of it.
So here was Colonel J ack, and Captain Jack: as for the
NICKNAMED COLONEL.
3
third boy, he was only plain Jack for some years after,
till he came to preferment.
We were hopeful boys, all three of us, and promised
very early, by many repeated circumstances of our lives,
that we would all be rogues; and yet I cannot say, if
what I have heard of my nurse's character be true, but
the honest woman did what she could to prevent it.
Captain Jack was the eldest of us all, by a whole year.
He was a squat, big, strong made boy, and promised to
be stout when grown up to be a man, but not to be tall.
His temper was sly, sullen, reserved, malicious, revenge-
ful; and, withal, he was brutish, bloody, and cruel in his
disposition; he was as to manners a mere boor, or clown,
of a carman-like breed; sharp, as a street-bred boy must
be, but ignorant and nnteachable from a child. He had
much the nature of a bull-dog, bold and desperate, but
not generous at all; all the schoolmistresses we went to
could never make him learn—no, not so much as to
make him know his letters; and, as if he was born a
thief, he would steal everything that came near him, even
as soon almost as he could speak; and that, not from his
mother only, but from anybody else, and from us, too,
that were his brethren and companions. He was an orig-
inal rogue, for he would do the foulest and most villain-
ous things, even by his own inclination; he had no taste
or sense of being honest—no, not, I say, to his brother
rogues, which is what other thieves make a point of honor
of; I mean that of being honest to one another.
The other, that is to say, the youngest of us Johns,
was called Major Jack.
He was a merry, facetious, pleasant boy, had a good
share of wit, especially off-hand wit, as they call it; was
full of jests and good humor, and, as I often said, had
something of a gentleman in him. He had a true manly
COLONEL JACK.
courage, feared nothing, and could look death in the face
without any hesitation; and yet, if he had the advantage,
was the most generous and most compassionate creature
alive. He had native principles of gallantry in him, with-
out anything of the brutal or terrible part that the cap-
tain had; and, in a word, he wanted nothing but honesty
to have made him an excellent man. He had learned to
read, and as he talked very well, so he wrote good sense,
and very handsome language, as you will see in the proc-
ess of his story.
As for your humble servant, Colonel Jack, he was a
poor, unhappy, tractable dog, willing enough, and capa-
ble, too, to learn anything, if he had had any but the
devil for his schoolmaster; he set out into the world so
early that when he began to do evil he understood noth-
ing of the wickedness of it, nor what he had to expect
for it. I remember very well that when I was once car-
ried before a justice, for a theft which, indeed, I was not
guilty of, and defended myself by argument, proving the
mistakes of my accusers, and how they contradicted them-
selves, the justice told me it was a pity I had not been bet-
ter employed, for I was certainly better taught; in which,
however, his worship was mistaken, for I had never been
taught anything but to be a thief; but I had a natural
talent of talking, and could say as much to the purpose
as most people that had been taught much more than I.
I passed among my comrades for a bold, resolute boy,
and one that durst fight anything; but I had a different
opinion of myself, and therefore shunned fighting as
much as I could, though sometimes I ventured to, and
came off well, being very strong-made, and nimble withal.
However, I many times brought myself off with my
tongue where my hands would not be sufficient; and this
as well after I was a man as while I was a boy.
DEFENCE BEFORE A .TUSTICE.
5
I was wary and dexterous at my trade, and was not 60
often catched as my fellow rogues -— I mean while I was
a boy, and never after I came to be a man; no, not once
for twenty-six years, being so old in the trade, and still
unhanged, as you shall hear.
As for my person, while I was a dirty, glass-bottle-
house boy, sleeping in the ashes, and dealing always in
the street-dirt, it cannot be expected but that I looked
like what I was, and so we did all; that is to say, like a
black-your-shoes-your-honor, a beggar-boy, a blackguard-
boy, or what you please, despicable and miserable to the
last degree; and vet I remember the people would say of
me, that boy has a good face: if he was washed and
well-dressed he would be a good, pretty boy; do but
look what eyes he has, what a pleasant, smiling counte-
nance; it is a pity! I wonder what the rogue's father
and mother was, and the like; then they would call me,
and ask me my name, and I would tell them my name
was Jack. But what's your surname, sirrah? says they.
I don't know, says I. Who is your father and mother?
I have none, said I. What, and never had you any? said
they. No, says I, not that I know of. Then they
would shake their heads, and cry, Poor boy! and 'tis a
pity! and the like; and so let me go. But I laid up all
these things in my heart.
I was almost ten years old, the captain eleven, and the
major about eight, when the good woman, my nurse, died.
Her husband was a seaman, and had been drowned a lit-
tle before in the Gloucester frigate, one of the king's
ships which was cast away going to Scotland with the
Duke of York, in the time of King Charles II., and the
honest woman dying very poor, the parish was obliged to
bury her, when the three young Jacks attended her
corpse, and I, the colonel (for we all passed for her own
COLONEL JACK.
children), was chief mourner, the captain, who was the
eldest son, going back very sick.
The good woman being dead, we, the three Jacks,
were turned loose to the world. As to the parish provid-
ing for us, we did not trouble ourselves much about that;
we rambled about, all three together, and the people in
Rosemary-lune and Ratcliff, and that way, knowing us
pretty well, we got victuals easily enough, and without
much begging.
Thus we all made shift, though we were so little, to keep
from starving; and as for lodging, wc lay in the sum-
mer-time about the watch-houses, and on bulkheads, and
shop-doors, where we were known; as for a bed, we
knew nothing what belonged to it for many years after
my nurse died; and in winter we got into the ash-holes,
and nealing-arches in the glass-house, called Dallow's
Glass-house in Rosemary-lane, or at another glass-house
in Ratcliff-highway.
In this manner we lived for some years; and here we
failed not to fall among a gang of naked, ragged rogues
like ourselves, wicked as the devil could desire to have
them be at so early an age, and ripe for all the other
parts of mischief that suited them as they advanced in
years.
Captain Jack in this time fell into bad company, and
went away from us, and it was a good while before we
ever heard tale or tidings of him, till about half a year, I
think, or thereabouts, I understood he was got among a
gang of kidnappers, as they were then called, being a
sort of wicked fellows that used to spirit people's chil-
dren away; that is, snatch them up in the dark, and,
stopping their mouths, carry them to houses where they
had rogues ready to receive them, and so carry them on
board of ships bound to Virginia, and sell them.
MANNER IN WHICH HE LIVED.
7
This was a trade that horrid Jack, for so I called him
when we were grown up, was very fit for, especially the
violent part; for if a little child got into his clutches, he
would stop the breath of it instead of stopping its mouth,
and never troubled his head with the child's being almost
strangled, so he did but keep it from making a noise.
There was, it seems, some villainous thing done by this
gang about that time, whether a child was murdered
among them, or a child otherwise abused; but it seems it
was a child of an eminent citizen, and the parents some-
how or other got a scent of the thing, so that they
recovered their child, though in a sad condition, and
almost killed. I was too young, and it was too long ago,
for me to remember the whole story, but they were all
taken up and sent to Newgate, and Captain Jack among
the rest, though he was but young, for he was not then
much above thirteen years old.
What punishment was inflicted upon the rogues of that
gang I cannot tell now, but the captain, being but a lad,
was ordered to be three times soundly whipped at Bridewell;
my lord mayor, or the recorder, telling him it was done
in pity to him, to keep him from the gallows, not for-
getting to tell him that he had a hanging look, and bid
him have a care on that very account; so remarkable was
the captain's countenance, even so young, and which he
heard of afterwards on many occasions. When he was
in Bridewell I heard of his misfortune, and the major
and I went to see him, for this was the first news we
heard of what became of him.
The very day that we went he was called out to be
corrected, as they called it, according to his sentence;
and as it was ordered to be done soundly, so indeed they
were true to the sentence; for the alderman, who was
the president of Bridewell, and who, I think, they called
COLONEL JACK.
Sir William Turner, held preaching to him about how
young he was, anil what pit)7 it was such a youth should
come to be hanged, and a great deal more, how he should
take warning by it, and how wicked a thing it was that
they should steal away poor innocent children, and the
like; and all this while the man with a blue badge on
lashed him most unmercifully, for he was not to leave off
till Sir "William knocked with a little hammer on the table.
The poor captain stamped and danced, and roared out
like a mad boy; and I must confess I was frighted
almost to death; for though I could not come near
enough, being but a poor boy, to see how he was handled,
yet I saw him afterwards, with his back all wealed with
the lashes, and in several places bloody, and thought I
should have died with the sight of it; but I grew better
acquainted with those things afterwards.
I did what I could to comfort the poor captain, when I
got leave to come to him. But the worst was not over
with him, for he was to have two more such whippings
before they had done with him; and indeed they scourged
him so severely that they made him sick of the kid-
napping trade for a great while; but he fell in among
them again, and kept among them as long as that trade
lasted, for it ceased in a few years afterwards.
The major and I, though very young, had sensible
impressions made upon us for some time by the severe
usnge of the captain, and, it might be very well said, we
were corrected as well as he, though not concerned in the
crime; but it was within the year that the major, a
good-conditioned, easy boy, was wheedled away by a
couple of young rogues that frequented the glass-house
apartments, to take a walk with them, as they were
pleased to call it; the gentlemen were very well matched,
the major was about twelve years old, and the oldest of
CAPTAIN JACK WHIPPED AT BEIDEWELL.
9
the two that led him out was not above fourteen; the
business was to go to Bartholomew fair — was, in short,
to pick pockets.
The major knew nothing of the trade, and therefore
was to do nothing ; but they promised him a share, for all
that, as if he had been as expert as themselves; so away
they went. The two dexterous young rogues managed it
so well that by eight o'clock at night they came back to
our dusty quarters at the glass-house, and, sitting them
down in a corner, they began to share their spoil, by
the light of the glass-house fire. The major lugged out
the goods, for, as fast as they made any purchase,
they unloaded themselves, and gave all to him, that, if
they had been taken, nothing might be found about
them.
It was a devilish lucky day to them, the devil certainly
assisting them to find their prey, that he might draw in a
young gamester, and encourage him to the undertaking,
who had been made backward before by the misfortune
of the captain. The list of their purchase the first night
was as follows : —
1. A white handkerchief from a country wench, as she
was starting up at a jack-pudding; there was 3s. 6cZ. and
a row of pins tied up in one end of it.
2. A colored handkerchief, out of a young country
fellow's pocket as he was buying a china orange.
3. A riband purse with lis. 3d. and a silver thimble in
it, out of a young woman's pocket.
N. B. She missed her purse presently, but, not seeing
the thief, charged the man next her with it, and cried
out, "A pickpocket!" and he fell into the hands of the
mob, but, being known in the street, he got off with
great difficulty.
4. A knife and fork, that a couple of boys had just
10
COI.ONKI. JACK.
bought, and were going home with; the young rogue that
took it got it within the minute after the boy had put it
in his pocket.
5. A little silver box with 7s. in it, all in small silver,
Id., 2d., 3d., 4d. pieces.
N. B. This, it seems, a maid pulled out of her pocket,
to pay at her going into the booth to see a show, and the
little rogue got his hand in and fetched it off, just as she
put it up again.
6. Another silk handkerchief, out of a gentleman's
pocket.
7. Another.
8. A jointed baby, and a little looking-glass, stolen off
a toyseller's stall in the fair.
All this cargo to be brought home clear in one after-
noon, or evening rather, and by only two little rogues so
young, was, it must be confessed, extraordinary; and
the major was elevated the next day to a strange degree.
He came very early to me, who lay not far from him,
and said to me, Colonel Jack, I want to speak with you.
Well, said I, what do you say? Nay. said he, it is
business of consequence, I cannot talk here; so we
walked out. As soon as we were come out into a narrow
lane, by the glass-house, Look here, says he, and pulls
out his little hand almost full of money.
I was surprised at the sight, when he puts it up again,
and, bringing his hand out, Here, says he, you shall have
some of it; and gives me a sixpence, and a shilling's
worth of the small silver pieces. This was very welcome
to me, who, as much as I was of a gentleman, and as
much as I thought of myself upon that account, never
had a shilling of money together before in all my life,
not that I could call my own.
I was very earnest then to know how he came bv this
PRODUCE OF PLUNDER.
11
wealth, for he had for his share 7s. 6d. in money, the
silver thimble, and a silk handkerchief, which was, in
shoit, an estate to him, that never had, as I said of
myself, a shilling together in his life.
And what will you do with it now, Jack? said I. I
do? says he; the first thing I do I'll go into Rag Fair,
and buy me a pair of shoes and stockings. That's right,
says I, and so will I, too; so away wo went together, and
we bought each of us a pair of Rag Fair stockings in the
first place for flvepence, not fivepence a pair, but five-
pence together, and good stockings they were, too, much
above our wear, I assure you.
We found it more difficult to fit ourselves with shoes;
but at last, having looked a great while before we could
find any good enough for us, we found a shop very well
stored, and of these we bought two pair for sixteen-
pence.
We put them on immediately, to our great comfort, for
we had neither of us had any stockings to our legs that
had any feet to them for a long time. I found myself so
refreshed with having a pair of warm stockings on, and
a pair of dry shoes, — things, I say, which I had not
been acquainted with a great while, — that I began to call
to my mind my being a gentleman, and now I thought it
began to come to pass. When we had thus fitted our-
selves, I said, Hark ye, Major Jack, you and I never
had any money in our lives before, and we never had a
good dinner in all our lives; what if we should go some-
where and get some victuals? I am very hungry.
So we will, then, says the major; I am hungry, too;
so we went to a boiling-cook's in Rosemary Lane, where
we treated ourselves nobly, and, as I thought with myself,
we began to live like gentlemen, for we had three-penny-
worth of boiled beef, two-pennyworth of pudding, a
COLONEL JACK.
penny brick (as they call it, or loaf), and a whole pint of
strong beer, which was seven-pence in all.
N. B. We had each of us a good mess of charming
beef-broth into the bargain, and, which cheered my heart
wonderfully, all the while we were at dinner the maid and
the boy in the house, every time they passed by the open
box where we sat at our dinner, would look in and cry,
Gentlemen, do you call? and, Do ye call, gentlemen? I
say this was as good to me as n.ll my dinner.
Not the best housekeeper in Stepney parish, not my
lord mayor of London, no, not the greatest man on earth,
could be more happy in their own imagination, and with
less mixture of grief or reflection, than I was at this new
piece of felicity; though mine was but a small part of it,
for Major Jack had an estate compared to me, as I had an
estate compared to what I had before : in a word, nothing
but an utter ignorance of greater felicity, which was my
case, could make anybody think himself so exalted as I did,
though I had no share of this booty but eighteen pence.
That night the major and I trinmphed in our new
enjoyment, and slept with an undisturbed repose in the
usual place, surrounded with the warmth of the glass-
house fires above, which was a full amends for all the
ashes and cinders which we rolled in below.
Those who know the position of the glass-houses, and
the arches where they neal the bottles after they are
made, know that those places where the ashes are cast,
and where the poor boys lie, are cavities in the brick-
work, perfectly close, except at the entrance, and conse-
quently warm as can be; that it is impossible they can
feel any cold there, were it in Greenland, or Nova Zem-
bla, and that therefore the boys lie there, not only safe,
but very comfortably, the ashes excepted, which are no
grievance at all to them.
FEASTING AT A COOK's SHOP.
13
The next day the major and his comrades went abroad
again, and were still successful; nor did any disaster
attend them, for I know not how many months; and, by
frequent imitation and direction, Major Jack became as
dexterous a pickpocket as any of them, and went on
through a long variety of fortunes, too long to enter
upon now, because I am hastening to my own story,
which at present is the main thing I have to set down.
The major failed not to let me see every day the effects
of his new prosperity, and was so bountiful as frequently
to throw me a tester, sometimes a shilling; and I might
perceive that he began to have clothes on his back, to
leave the ash-hole, having gotten a society lodging (of
which I may give au explanation by itself on another
occasion), and, which was more, he took upon him to wear
a shirt, which was what neither he or I had ventured to
do for three years before, and upward.
But I observed all this while that, though Major Jack
was so prosperous and had thriven so well, and notwith-
standing he was very kind, and even generous to me, in
giving me money upon many occasions, yet he never
invited me to enter myself into the society, or to embark
with him, whereby 1 might have been made as happy as
he ; no, nor did he recommend the employment to me at all.
I was not very well pleased with his being thus reserved
to me; I had learned from him in general that the busi-
ness was picking of pockets, and I fancied that, though
the ingenuity of the trade consisted very much in sleight
of hand, n good address, and being very nimble, yet that
it was not at all difficult to learn; and, especially, I
thought the opportunities were so many, the country
people that come to London so foolish, so gaping, and so
eugaged in looking about them, that it was a trade with
no great hazard annexed to it, and might be easily
COLONEL JACK.
learned, if I d d but know in general the manner of it,
and how they went about it.
CHAPTER II.
I GET ACQUAINTED WITH ONE OF THE MOST NOTED PICK-
POCKETS IN TOWN WE STEAL A LETTER-CASE FULL
OF BILLS DREADFULLY DISTRESSED HOW TO DISPOSE
OF MY SHARE OF THE HOOTY MY COMRADE PRO-
POSES I SHALL RETURN THE BILLS AND GET THB
REWARD PROMISED PROCEEDINGS THEREUPON.
The subtle devil, never absent from his business, but
ready at all occasions to encourage his servants, removed
all these difficulties, and brought him into an intimacy
with one of the most exquisite divers, or pickpockets,
in the town ; and this, our intimacy, was of no less a kind
than that, as I had an inclination to be as wicked as any
of them, he was for taking care that I should not be
disappointed.
He was above the little fellows who went about steal-
ing trifles and baubles in Bartholomew fair, and run the
risk of being mobbed for three or four shillings. His
aim was at higher things, even at no less than considera-
ble sums of money, and bills for more.
He solicited me earnestly to go and take a walk with
him as above, adding that, after he had shewn me my
trade a little, he would let me be as wicked as I would;
that is, as he expressed it, that after he had made me
capable I should set up for myself, if I pleased, and he
would only wish me good luck.
Accordingly, as Major Jack went with his gentleman,
only to see the manner and receive the purchase, and yet
come in for a share, so he told me, if he had success, I
LOOKED ON PICKING POCKETS AS A TRADE. 15
should Lave my share as much as if I had been princi-
pal; and this, he assured me, was a custom of the trade,
in order to encourage young beginners, and bring them
into the trade with courage, for that nothing was to be
done if a man had not the heart of the lion.
The first day I went abroad with my new instructor he
carried me directly into the city, and as we went first to
the water-side, he led me into the long room at the cus-
tom house. We were but a couple of ragged boys, at
best, but I was much the worse; my leader had a hat on,
a shirt, and a neckcloth; as for me, I had neither of the
three, nor had I spoiled my manners so much as to have
a hat on my head since my nurse died, which was now
some years. His orders to me were to keep always in
sight, and near him, but not close to him, nor to take
any notice of him at any time till he came to me; and if
any hurlyburly happened, I should by no means know
him, or pretend to have anything to do with him.
I observed my orders to a tittle. While he peered into
every corner, and had his eye upon everybody, I kept my
eye directly upon him, but went always at a distance, and
on the other side of the long room, looking, as it were,
for pins, and picking them up out of the dust as I could
find them, and then sticking them on my sleeve, where
I had at last got forty or fifty good pins; but still my
eye was upon my comrade, who, I observed, was very
busy among the crowds of people that stood at the board,
doing business with the officers, who pass the entries, and
make the cocquets, etc.
At length he comos over to me, and, stooping as if he
would take up a pin close to me, he put something into
my hand, and said, Put that up and follow me down stairs
quickly. He did not run, but shuffled along apace through
the crowd, and went down, not the great stairs which we
COLONEL JACK.
came in at, but a little, narrow staircase at the other end
of the long room; I followed, and he found I did, and so
went on, not stopping below, as I expected, nor speaking
one word to me, till, through innumerable narrow pas-
sages, alleys, and dark ways, we were got up into Fen-
church Street, and through Billiter Lane into Leadenhall
Street, and from thence into Leadenhall Market.
It was not a meat-market day, so we had room to sit
down upon one of the butchers' stalls, and he bid me lug
out. What he had given me was a little leather letter-
case, with a French almanac stuck in the inside of it, and
a great many papers in it of several kinds.
We looked them over, and found there were several
valuable bills in it, such as bills of exchange, and other
notes, things I did not understand; but among the rest
was a goldsmith's note, as he called it, of one Sir Stephen
Evans, for 3001., payable to the bearer, and at demand;
besides this there was another note for 12L 10s., being a
goldsmith's bill, too, but I forget the name; there was a
bill or two, also, written i l French, which neither of us
understood, but which, it seems, were things of value,
being called foreign bills accepted.
The rogue, my master, knew what belonged to the gold-
smiths' bills well enough, an 1 I observed, when he read
the bill of Sir Stephen, he said, This is too big for me to
meddle with; but when he came to the bill 121. 10s. he
said to me, This will do; come hither, Jack. So away
he runs to Lombard Street, aud I after him, huddling the
other papers into the letter-case. As he weut along he
inquired the name out immediately, and went directly to
the shop, put on a good, grave countenance, and had the
money paid him without any stop or question asked; I
stood on the other side the way looking about the street,
ts not at all concerned with anybody that way. but
ROBBERY AT THE CUSTOM HOUSE.
17
observed that when he presented the bill he pulled out
the letter-case, as if he had been a merchant's boy,
acquainted with business, and had other bills about him.
They paid him the money in gold, and he made haste
enough in telling it over, and came away, passing by me,
and going into Three-King Court, on the other side of the
way; then we crossed back into Clement's Lane, made
the best of our way to Cole Harbor, at the water-side,
and got a sculler for a penny to carry us over the water
to St. Mary-Over's Stairs, where we landed and were safe
enough.
Here he turns to me; Colonel Jack, says he, I believe
you are a lucky boy, this is a good job; we'll go away to
St. George's Fields and share our booty. Away we went
to the Fields, and, sitting down in the grass, far enough
out of the path, he pulled out the money. Look here,
Jack, says he, did you ever see the like before in your
life? No, never, says I, and added, very innocently,
must we have it all? We have it! says he, who should
have it? Why, says I, must the man have none of it
again that lost it? He have it again, says he, what d'ye
mean by that? Nay, I don't know, says I; why, you
said just now you would let him have t'other bill again;
that, you said, was too big for you.
He laughed at me. You are but a little boy, says he;
that's true, but I thought you had not been such a child
neither; so he mighty gravely explained the thing to me
thus: that the bill of Sir Stephen Evans was a great bill
for 300Z , and if I, says he, that am but a poor lad,
should venture to go for the money, they will presently
say, how should I come by such a bill, and that I cer-
tainly found it or stole it; so they will stop me, says he,
and take it away from me, and it may bring me into
trouble for it, too; so, says he, I did say it was too big
COLONEL JACK.
for me to meddle with, and that I would let the man have
it again, if I could tell how; but for the money, Jack,
the money that we have got, I warrant you he should
have none of that; besides, says he, whoever he be that
has lost this letter-case, to be sure, as soon as he missed
it, he would run to the goldsmith and give notice that if
anybody came for the money they would be stopped;
but I am too old for him there, says he.
Why, says I, and what will you do with the bill; will
you throw it away? If you do somebody else will find it,
says I, and they will go and take the money. No, no,
says he, then they will be stopped and examined, as I
tell you I should be. I did not know well what all this
meant, so I talked no more about that; but we fell to
handling the money. As for me, I had never seen so
much together in all my life, nor did I know what in the
world to do with it, and once or twice I was going to bid
him keep it for me, which would have been done like a
child indeed, for, to lie sure, I had never heard a word
more of it, though nothing had befallen him.
However, as I happened to hold my tongue as to that
part, he shared the money very honestly with me; only
at the end he told me that though it was true he
promised me half, yet as it was the first time, and I had
done nothing but look on, so he thought it was very well
if I took a little less than he did; so he divided the
money, which was 121. 10s., into two exact parts, viz.,
61. os. in each part; then he took 11. 5s. from my part,
and told me I should give him that for hansel. Well,
says I, take it then, for I think you deserve it all; so,
however, I took up the rest. And what shall I do with
this now, says I, for I have nowhere to put it? Why,
have you no pockets? says he. Yes, says I, but they are
full of holes. I have often thought since that, and with
SHARE OF THE ROBBERY.
19
some mirth, too, how I had really more wealth than I
knew what to do with, for lodging I had none, nor any
box or drawer to hide my money in, nor had I any pocket,
but such as, I say, was full of holes; I knew nobody in
the world that I could go and desire them to lay it up for
me; for, being a poor, naked, ragged boy, they would
presently say I had robbed somebody, and perhaps lay
hold of me, and my money would be my crime, as they
say it often is in foreign countries. And now, as I was
full of wealth, behold I was full of care, for what to do
to secure my money I could not tell; and this held me so
long, and was so vexatious to me the next day, that I
truly sat down and cried.
Nothing could be more perplexing than this money was
to me all that night. I carried it in my hand a good
while, for it was in gold, all but 14s.; and, that is to say,
it was in four guineas, and that 14s. was more difficult to
carry than the four guineas. At last I sat down, and
pulled off one of my shoes, and put the four guineas into
that; but after I had gone a while my shoe hurt me so I
could not go, so I was fain to sit down again, and take it
out of my shoe, and carry it in my hand; then I found a
dirty linen rag in the street, and I took that up, and
wrapped it all together, and carried it in that a good way.
I have often since heard people say, when they have been
talking of money that they could not get in, I wish I had
it in a foul clout. In truth, I had mine in a foul clout;
for it was foul, according to the letter of that saying, but
it served me till I came to a convenient place, and then I
sat down and washed the cloth in the kennel, and so then
put my money in again.
Well, I carried it home with me to my lodging in the
glass-house, and when I went to go to sleep I knew not
what to do with it; if I had let any of the black crew I
COLONEL JACK.
was with know of it. I should have been smothered in the
ashes for it, or robbed of it, or some trick or other put
upon me for it; so I knew not what to do, but lay with it
in my hand, and my hand in my bosom, but then sleep
went from my eyes.
As soon as it was day I got out of the hole we lay in,
and rambled abroad in the fields towards Stepney, and
there I mused and considered what I should do with
this money, and many a time I wished that I had not had
it; for, after all my ruminating upon it, and what course
I should take with it, or where I should put it, I could
not hit upon any one thing or any possible method to
secure it, and it perplexed me so that at last, as I said
just now, I sat down and cried heartily.
When my crying was over the case was the same; I
had the money still, and what to do with it I could not
tell. At last it came into my head that I would look out
for some hole in a tree, and see to hide it the.-e till I
should have occasion for it. Big with this discovery, as
I then thought it, I began to look about me for a tree;
but there were no trees in the fields about Stepney or
Mile-end that looked fit for my purpose; and if there
were any that I began to look narrowly at, the fields
were so full of people that they would s: e if I went to
hide anything there, and I thought the people eyed me, as
it were, and that two men in particular followed me to
see what I intended to do.
This drove me farther off, and I crossed the road at
Mile-end, and in the middle of the town went down a
lane that goes away to the Blind Beggar's at Bedual-
green. When I came a little way in the lane I found a
footpath over the fields, and in those fields several trees
for my turn, as I thought. At last, one tree had a little
hole in it, pretty high out of my reach, and I climbed up
HIDES HIS MONEY IN A TREE.
21
the tree to get it, and when I came there I put my hand
in, and found (as I thought) a place very fit, so I placed
my treasure there, and was mighty well satisfied with it;
but, behold, putting my hand in again to lay it more
commodiously, as I thought, of a suddeu it slipped away
from me, aud I found the tree was hollow, and my little
parcel was fallen in quite out of my reach, and how far
it might go in I knew not; so that, in a word, my money
was quite gone, irrecoverably lost; there could be no
room so much as to hope ever to see it again, for 'twas a
vast, great tree.
As young as I was, I was now sensible what a fool I
was before, that I could not think of ways to keep my
money, but I must come thus far to throw it into a hole
where I could not reach it. Well, I thrust my hand quite
up to my elbow, but no bottom was to be found, or any
end of the hole or cavity. I got a stick of the tree, and
thrust it in a great way, but all was one. Then I cried,
nay, roared out, I was in such a passion. Then I got
down the tree again, then up again, and thrust in my
hand again till I scratched my arm and made it bleed,
and cried all the while most violently. Then I began to
think I had not so much as a half-penny of it left for a
half-penny roll, and I was hungry, and then I cried
again. Then I came away in despair, crying and roaring
like a little boy that had been whipped; then I went back
again to the tree, and up the tree again, and thus I did
several times.
The last time I had gotten up the tree I happened to
come down not on the same side that I went up and came
down before, but on the other side of the tree, and on the
other side of the bank also; and, behold, the tree had a
great open place in the side of it close to the ground, as
old, hollow trees often have; and looking into the open
COLONEL JACK.
place, to my inexpressible joy, there lay my money and my
linen rag, all wrapped up just as I had put it into the hole;
for the tree being hollow all the way up, there had been
some moss or light stuff (which I had not judgment
enough to know was not firm), which had given way
when it came to drop out of my hand, and so it had
slipped quite down at once.
I was but a child, and I rejoiced like a child, for I
holloed quite out aloud when I saw it; then I run to it,
and snatched it up, hugged and kissed the dirty rag a
hundred times; then danced and jumped about, run from
one end of the field to the other, and, in short, I knew
not what, much less do I know now what I did, though I
shall never forget the thing, either what a sinking grief
it was to my heart, when I thought I had lost it, or what
a flood of joy overwhelmed me when I had got it again.
Well, I came away with my money, and, having taken
sixpence out of it, before I made it up again, I went to a
chandler's shop in Mile-end, and bought a half-penny
roll and a half-penny-worth of cheese, and sat down at
the door after I bought it, aud eat it very heartily, and
begged some beer to drink with it, which the good woman
gave me very freely.
Away I went then for the town, to see if I could find
any of my companions, and resolved I would try no
more hollow trees for my treasure. As I came along
Whiteehapel I came by a broker's shop, over against the
church, where they sold old clothes, for I had nothing on
but the worst of rags; so I stopped at the shop, and
stood looking at the clothes which hung at the door.
Well, young gentleman, says a man that stood at the
door, you look wishfully; do you see anything you like,
and will your pocket compass a good coat now, for you
look as if you belonged to the ragged regiment? I was
PURCHASES SOME CLOTHING.
affronted at the fellow. What's that to you, says I, how
ragged I am? If I had seen anything I liked, I have
money to pay for it; but I can go where I shan't be
huffed at for looking.
While I said thus pretty boldly to the fellow, comes a
woman out. What ails you, says she to the man, to bully
away our customers so? A poor boy's money is as good as
my lord mayor's; if poor people did not buy old clothes,
what would become of our business? And, then turning
to me, Come hither, child, says she, if thou hast a mind
to anything I have, you shan't be hectored by him. The
boy is a pretty boy, I assure you, says she to another
woman that was by this time come to her. Ay, says the
t'other, so he is, a very well-looking child, if he was
clean and well dressed, and may be as good a gentleman's
son for anything we know, as any of those that are well
dressed. Come, my dear, says she, tell me what is it
you would have? She pleased me mightily to hear her
talk of my being a gentleman's son, and it brought
former things to my mind. But when she talked of my
being not clean, and in rags, then I cried.
She pressed me to tell her if I saw anything that I
wanted. I told her no, all the clothes I saw there were
too big for me. Come, child, says she, I have two things
here that will fit you, and I am sure you want them both;
that is, first, a little hat, and there, says she, tossing it to
me, I'll give you that for nothing; and here is a good
warm pair of breeches. I dare say, says she, they will fit
you, and they are very tight and good. And, says she,
if you should ever come to have so much money that you
don't know what to do with it, here are excellent good
pockets, says she, and a little fob to put your gold in, or
your watch in, when you get it.
It struck me with a strange kind of joy that I should
COLONEL JACK.
have a place to put my money in, and need not go to hide
it again in a hollow tree. That I was ready to snatch the
breeches out of her hands, and wondered that I should
be such a fool never to think of buying me a pair of
breeches before, that I might have a pocket to put my
money in, and not carry it about two days together in my
hand, and in my shoe, and I knew not how. So, in a
word, I gave her two shillings for the breeches, and went
over into the church-yard, and put them on, put my
money into my new pockets, and was as pleased as a
prince is with his coach and six horses. I thanked the
good woman, too, for the hat, and told her I would come
again when I got more money, and buy some other
things I wanted. And so I came away.
I was but a boy, 'tis true, but I thought myself a man,
now I had got a pocket to put my money in, and I went
directly to find out my companion, by whose means I got
it. But I was frightened out of my wits when I heard
that he was carried to Bridewell. I made no question
but it was for the letter-case, and that I should be carried
there, too. And then my poor brother Captain Jack's
case came into my head, and that I should be whipped
there as cruelly as he was, and I was in such a fright
that I knew not what to do.
But in the afternoon I met him; he had been carried
to Bridewell, it seems, upon that very affair, but was got
out again. The case was thus: having had such good
pack at the custom house the day before, he takes his
walk thither again, and as he was in the long-room, gap-
ing and staring about him, a fellow lays hold of him, and
calls to one of the clerks that sat behind. Here, says he,
is the same young rogue that I told you I saw loitering
about t'other day, when the gentleman lost his letter-
case, and his goldsmith's bills. I dare say it was he that
REWARD OFFERED FOR THE BILLS.
25
stole them. Immediately the whole crowd of people
gathered about the boy, and charged him point blank.
But he was too well used to such things to be frightened
into a confession of what he knew they could not prove,
for he had nothing about him belonging to it, nor had
any money, but sixpence and a few dirty farthings.
They threatened him, and pulled, and hauled him, till
they almost pulled the clothes off his back, and the com-
missioners examined him, but all was one. He would own
nothing, but said he walked up through the room, only
to see the place, both then and the time before, for he
had owned he was there before. So as there was no proof
against him of any fact, no, nor of any circumstances
relating to the letter-case, they were forced at last to let
him go. However, they made a show of carrying him to
Bridewell, and they did carry him to the gate to see if
they could make him confess anything; but he would
confess nothing, aud they had no mittimus; so they
durst not carry him into the house, nor would the people
have received him, I suppose, if they had, they having
no warrant for putting him in prison.
Well, when they could get nothing out of him they
carried him into an ale-house, and there they told him
that the letter-case had bills in it of a very great value,
that they would be of no use to the rogue that had them,
but they would be of infinite damage to the gentleman
that had lost them; and that he had left word with th.3
clerk, who the man that stopped this boy had called to,
and who was there with him, that he would give 30L to
any one that would bring them again, and give all the
security that could be desired, that he would give them
no trouble, whoever it was.
He was just come from out of their hands when I met
with him, and so he told me all the story. But, says he,
COLONEL JACK.
I would confess nothing, and so I got off, and am come
away clear. Well, says I, and what will you do with the
letter-case, and the bills — will not you let the poor man
have his bills again? No, not I, says he, I won't trust
them; what care I for their bills? It came into my head,
as young as I was, that it was a sad thing indeed to take
a man's bills away for so much money, and not have any
advantage by it either; for I concluded that the gentle-
man who owned the bills must lose all the money, and
it was strange he should keep the bills, and make a gentle-
man lose so much money for nothing. I remember that
I ruminated very much about it, and though I did not
understand it very well, yet it lay upon my mind, and I
said every now and then to him, Do let the gentleman
have his bills again, do, pray do. And so I teazed him,
with do, and pray do, till at last I cried about them. He
said, What, would you have me found out and sent to
Bridewell, and be whipped, as your brother Captain Jack
was? I said, No, I would not have you whipped, but I
would have the man have his bills, for they will do you
no good, but the gentleman will be undone, it may be.
And then I added again, Do let him have them. He
snapped me short. Why, says he, how shall I get them to
him? Who dare carry them? I dare not, to be sure,
for they will stop me, and bring the goldsmith to see if
he does not know me, and that I received the money, and
so they will prove the robbery, and I shall be hanged.
Would you have me be hanged, Jack?
1 was silenced a good while with that, for when he said,
would you have me be hanged, Jack? I had no more to
say; but one day after this he called to me. Colonel
Jack, says he, I have thought of a way how the gentle-
man shall have his bills again; and you and I shall get
a good deal of money by it, if you will be honest to me,
GOES TO RETURN THE BILLS
27
as I was to you. Indeed, says I, Robin, that was his
name, I will be very honest; let me know how it is, for I
would fain have him have his bills.
Why, says he, they told me that he had left word at
the clerk's place in the. long-room, that he would give 301.
to any one that had the bills and would restore them,
and would ask no questions Now, if you will go, like
a poor, innocent boy, as you are, into the long-room, and
speak to the clerk, it may do. Tell him, if the gentleman
will do as he promised, you believe you can tell him who
has it. And if they are civil to you, and willing to be as
good as their words, you shall have the letter-case, and
give it them.
I told him, Ay, I would go with all my heart. But,
Colonel Jack, says he, what if they should take hold of
you, and threaten to have you whipped, won't you dis-
cover me to them? No, says I, if they would whip me
to death I won't. Well, then, says he, there's the letter-
case, do you go. So he gave me directions how to act,
and what to say. But I would not take the letter-case
with me, lest they should prove false, and take hold of
me, thinking to find it upon me, and so charge me with
the fact. So I left it with him, and the next morning I
went to the custom house, as was agreed. What my
directions were will, to avoid repetition, appear in what
happened. It was an errand of too much consequence
indeed to be entrusted to a boy, not only so young as I
was, but so little of a vogue as I was yet arrived to the
degree of.
Two things I was particularly armed with, which I
resolved upon: 1. That the man should have his bills
again; for it seemed a horrible thing to me that he should
be made to lose his money, which I supposed he must,
purely because we would not carry the letter-case home.
COLONEL .JACK.
2. That whatever happened to me, I was never to tell
the name of my comrade Robin, who had been the prin-
cipal. With these two pieces of honesty, for such they
were both in themselves, and with a manly heart, though
a boy's head, I went up into the long-room in the custom
house the next day.
As soon as I came to the place where the thing was
done, I saw the man sit just where he had sat before, and
it run in my head that he had sat there ever since. But
I knew no better. So I went up, and stood just at that
side of the writing-board, that goes upon that side of the
room, and which I was but just tall enough to lay my
arms upon.
"While I stood there one thrust me this way, and
another thrust me that way, and the man that sat behind
began to look at me. At last he called out to me. What
does that boy do there? Get you gone, sirrah. Are you
one of the rogues that stole the gentleman's letter-case
on Monday last? Then he turns his tale to a gentleman
that was doing business with him, and goes on thus:
Here was Mr. had a very unlucky chance on Mon-
day last, did not you hear of it? No, not I, says the
g 'ntleman. Why, standing just there, where you do,
says he, making his entries, he pulled out his letter-case,
and laid it down, as he says, but just at his hand, while
he reached over to the standish there for a penful of ink,
and somebody stole away his letter-case.
His letter-case! says t'other, what, and was there any
bills in it?
Ay, says he, there was Sir Stephen Evans's note in it
for 300L, and another goldsmith's bill for about 121.,
and, which is worse still for the gentleman, he had two
foreign accepted bills in it for a great sum, I know not
how much ; I think one was a French bill for 1200 crowns,
29
And who could it be? says the gentleman.
Nobody knows, says he, but one of our room-keepers
says he saw a couple of young rogues like that, pointing
at me, hanging about here, and that on a sudden they
were both gone.
Villains! says he again. Why, what can they do with
them, they will be of no use to them? I suppose he
went immediately, and gave notice to prevent the
payment.
Yes, says the clerk, he did; but the rogues were too
nimble for him with the little bill of 121. odd money.
They went and got the money for that, but all the rest
are stopped. However, 'tis an unspeakable damage to
him fur want of his money.
Why, he should publish a reward for the encourage-
ment of those that have them to bring them again; they
would be glad to bring them, I warrant you.
He has posted it up at the door, that he will give 30L
for them.
Ay, but he should add that he will promise not to
stop or give any trouble to the person that brings them.
He has done that, too, says he, but I fear they won't
trust themselves to be honest, for fear he should break
his word.
Why? It is true he may break his word in that case,
but no man should do so; for then no rogue will venture
to bring home anything that is stolen, and so he would
do an injury to others after him.
I durst pawn my life for him, he would scorn it.
COLONEL JACK.
CHAPTER III.
I AM EXAMINED BY THE GENTLEMEN TOUCHING THE BILLS
AND LETTER-CASE, AND OBTAIN THE REWARD OF 301.
ONE OF THEM KINDLY TAKES CHARGE OF THE MONEY
FORME WE COMMIT MORE THEFTS MY COMRADE PUR-
CHASES BETTER CLOTHES FOR ME 1 ROB A JEW OF HIS
POCKET-BOOK FULL OF BILLS AND DIAMONDS WILL
AGREES FOR A REWARD TO GIVE UP THE PROPERTY.
Thus far they discoursed of it, and then went off to
something else. I heard it all, but did not know
what to do a great while. But at last, watching the
gentleman that went away, when he was gone, I run after
him to have spoken to him, intending to have broke it to
him, but he went hastily into a room or two, full of
people, at the hither end of the long-room, and when I
went to follow, the door-keepers turned me back, and told
me I must not go in there. So I went back, and loitered
about, near the man that sat behind the board, and hung
about there till I found the clock struck twelve, and the
room began to be thin of people. And at last he sat
there writing, but nobody stood at the board before him,
as there had all the rest of the morning. Then I came a
little nearer, and stood close to the board, as T did before;
when, looking up from his paper, and seeing me, says he
to me, You have been up and down there all this morn-
ing, sirrah, what do you want? You have some business
that is not very good, I doubt.
No, I han't, said I.
No? It is well if you han't, says he. Pray what
business can you have in the long-room, sir; you are no
merchant?
QUESTIONED CONCERNING THE LETTER-CASE. 31
I would speak with you, said I.
With me-, says he, what have you to say to me?
I have something to say, said I, if you will do me no
harm for it.
I do thee harm, child, what harm should I do thee?
And spoke very kindly
Won't you indeed, sir? said I.
No, not I, child. I'll do thee no harm. What is
it? Do you know anything of the gentleman's letter-
case?
I answered, but spoke softly, that he could not hear
me. So he gets over presently into the seat next him,
ami opens a place that was made to come out, and bade
me come in to him; and I did.
Then he asked me again if I knew anything of the
letter-case.
I spoke softly again, and said, Folks would hear him.
Then he whispered softly, and asked me again.
I told him I believed I did; but that, indeed, I had it
not, nor had no hand in stealing it, but it was gotten
into the hands of a boy that would have burnt it if it had
not been for me; and that I heard him say that the
gentleman would be glad to have them again, and give a
good deal of money for them.
I did say so, child, said he, aud if you can get them
for him he shall give you a good reward, no less than
30L, as he has promised.
But you said, too, sir, to the gentleman just now, said
I, that you was sure he would not bring them into any
harm that should bring them.
No, you shall come to no harm. I will pass my word
for it.
Boy. Nor shan't they make me bring other people into
trouble?
Gent. No, you shall not be asked the name of any-
body, nor to tell who they are.
Boy. I am but a poor boy, and I would fain have the
gentleman have his bills, and indeed I did not take them
away, nor I han't got them.
Gent. But can you tell how the gentleman shall have
them?
Boy. If I can get them I will bring them to you
to-morrow morning.
Gent. Can you not do it to-night?
Boy. I believe I may if I knew where to come.
Gent. Come to my house, child.
Boy. I don't know where you live.
Gent. Go along with me now, and you shall see. So
he carried me up into Tower Street, and showed me his
house, and ordered me to come there at five o'clock at
night; which accordingly I did, and carried the letter-
case with me.
When I came the gentleman asked me if I had brought
the book, as he called it.
It is not a book, said I.
No, the letter-case, that's all one, says he.
You promised me, said I, you would not hurt me, and
cried.
Don't be afraid, child, says he, I will not hurt thee,
poor boy. Nobody shall hurt thee.
Here it is, said I, and pulled it out.
He then brought in another gentleman, who, it seems,
owned the letter-case, and asked him if that was it,
and he said, Yes.
Then he asked me if all the bills were in it.
I told him I heard him say there was one gone, but I
believed there was all the rest.
Why do you believe so? says he.
PRODUCES THE LETTER-CASE.
33
Because I heard the boy that I believe stole them, say
ihey were too big for him to meddle with.
The gentleman, then, that owned them said, Where is
the boy?
Then the other gentleman put in and said, No, you
must not ask him that. I passed my word that you
should not, and that he should not be obliged to tell it to
anybody.
Well, child, says he, you will let us see the letter-case
opened, and whether the bills are in it?
Yes, says I.
Then the flrst gentleman said, How many bills were
there in it?
-Only three, says he, besides the bill of 121. 10s.
There was Sir Stephen Evans's note for 300L and two
foreign bills.
Well, then, if they are in the letter-case the boy shall
have 30Z., shall he not? Yes, says the gentleman, he
shall have it freely.
Come then, child, says he, let me open it.
So I gave it him, and he opened it, and there were all
three bills, and several other papers, fair and safe, noth-
ing defaced or diminished, and the gentleman said, All is
right.
Then said the flrst man, Then I am security to the
poor boy for the money. Well, but, says the gentleman,
the rogues have got the 121. 10s.; they ought to reckon
that as part of the SOL Had he asked me I should have
consente d to it at firbt word; but the first man stood my
friend. Nay, says he, it was since you knew that the
121. 10s. was received that you offered 301. for the other
bills, and published it by the crier, and posted it up at
the custom housp door, and I promised him the 301. this
morning. They argued long, and I thought would have
quarrelled about it
However, at last they both yielded a little, and the
gentleman gave me 251. in good guineas. When he gave
it me he bade me hold out my hand, and he told the
money into my hand. And when he had done he asked
me if it was right. I said I did not know, but I believed
it was. Why, says he, can't you tell it? I told him,
No; I never saw so much money in my life, nor I did
not know how to tell money. Why, says he, don't you
know that they are guineas? No, I told him, I did not
know how much a guinea was.
Why, then, says he, did you tell me you believed it
was right? I told him, Because I believed he would not
give it me wrong.
Poor child, says he, thou knowest little of the world,
indeed. What aft thou?
I am a poor boy, says I, and cried.
What is your name? says he — but hold, I forgot, said
he. I promised I would not ask your name, so you need
not tell me.
My name is Jack, said I. »
Why, have you no surname? said he.
What is that? said I.
You have some other name besides Jack, says he,
han't you?
Yes, says I, they call me Colonel Jack.
But have you no other name?
No, said I.
How came you to be called Colonel Jack, pray?
They say, said I, my father's name was Colonel.
Is your father or mother alive? said he.
No, said I, my father is dead.
Where is your mother then? said he.
RECEIVES THE REWARD.
35
I never had e'er a mother, said I.
This made him laugh. What, said he, had you never
a mother, what then?
I had a nurse, said I, but. she was not my mother.
Well, says he to the gentleman, I dare say this hoy
was not the thief that stole your bills.
Indeed, sir, I did not steal them, said I, and cried
again.
No, no, child, said he, we don't believe you did. This
is a very clever boy, says he to the other gentleman, and
yet very ignorant and honest. 'Tis pity some care should
not be taken of him, and something done for him. Let
us talk a little more with him. So they sat down and
drank wine, and gave me some, and then the first gentle-
man talked to me again.
Well, says he, what wilt thou do with this money now
thou hast it?
I don't know, said I.
Where will you put it? said he.
In my pocket, said I.
In your pocket? said he. Is your pocket whole?
Sha'n't you lose it?
Yes, said I, my pocket is whole.
And where will you put it when you get home?
I have no home, said 1, and cried again.
Poor child! said he, then what dost thou do for thy
living?
I go of errands, said I, for the folks in Rosemary Lane.
And what dost thou do for a lodging at night?
I lie at the glass-house, said I, at night.
How, lie at the glass-house! Have they any beds
there? says he.
I never lay in a bed in my life, said I, as I remember.
Why, says he, what do you lie on at the glass-house?
The ground, says I, and sometimes a little straw, or
upon the warm ashes.
Here the gentleman that lost the bills said, This poor
child is enough to make a man weep for the miseries of
human nature, and be thankful for himself. He puts
tears into my eyes. And into mine, too, says the other.
Well, but hark ye, Jack, says the first gentleman, do
they give you no money when they send you of errands?
They give me victuals, said I, and that's better.
But what, says he, do you do for clothes?
They give me sometimes old things, said I, such as
they have to spare.
Why, you have never a shirt on, I believe, said he,
have you?
No, I never had a shirt, said I, since my nurse died.
How long ago is that? said he.
Six winters, when this is out, said I.
Why, how old are you? said he.
I can't tell, said I.
Well, says the gentleman, now you have this money,
won't you buy some clothes and a shirt with some of it?
Yes, said I, I would buy some clothes.
And what will you do with the rest?
I can't tell, said I, and cried.
What dost cry for, Jack? said he.
I am afraid, said I, and cried still.
What art afraid of?
They will know I have money.
Well, and what then?
Then I must sleep no more in the warm glass-house,
and I shall be starved with cold. They will take away
my money.
They asked me a great many questions more, to which
I answered in my childish way as well as I could, but so
LEAVES HIS MONEY IN A GENTLEMAN'S KEEPING. 37
as pleased them well enough. At last I was going away
with a heavy pocket, and, I assure you, not a light heart,
for I was so frightened with having so much money that
I knew not what in the earth to do with myself. I went
away, however, and walked a little way, but I could not
tell what to do. So, after rambling two hours or there-
about, I went back again, and sat down at the gentle-
man's door, and there I cried as long as I had any
moisture in my head to make tears of, but never knocked
at the door.
I had not sat long, I suppose, but somebody belonging
to the family got knowledge of it, and a maid came and
.talked to me, but I said little to her, only cried still. At
length it came to the gentleman's ears. As for the
merchant, he was gone. When the gentleman heard of
me he called me in, and began to talk with me again,
and asked me what I stayed for.
I told him I had not stayed there all that while, for I
had been gone a great while, and was come again.
Well, says he, but what did you come again for?
I can't tell, says I.
And what do you cry so for? said he. I hope you
have not lost your money, have you?
No, I told him, I had not lost it yet, but I was afraid I
should.
And does that make you cry? says he.
I told him, Yes, for I knew I should not be able to
keep it, but they would cheat me of it, or they would kill
me, and take it away from me, too.
They, says he, who? What sort of gangs of people
art thou with?
I told him they were all boys, but very wicked boys.
Thieves and pickpockets, said I, such as stole this letter-
case ; a sad pack, I can't abide them.
Well, Jack, said he, what shall be done for thee?
Will you leave it with me? Shall 1 keep it for you'
Yes, said I, with all my heart, if you please.
Come, then, says he, give it me , and that you may tx
sure that I have it, and you shall have it honestly again,
I'll give you a bill for it, and for the interest of it, aud
that you may keep safe enough. Nay, added he, and if
you lose it, or anybody takes it from you, none shall
receive the money but yourself, or any part of it.
I presently pulled out all the money, and gave it to
him, only keeping about los. for myself to buy some
clothes. And thus ended the conference between us on
the first occasion, :it least for the first time. Having
thus secured my money to my full satisfaction, I was
then perfectly easy, and accordingly the sad thoughts
that afflicted my mind before began to vanish away.
My comrade that gave me back the bills, and who, if I
had not pressed him, designed never to have restored
them, never asked me what I had given me, but told me
if they gave me anything it should be my own; for, as
he said, he would not run the venture of being seen in
the restoring them. I deserved the reward, if there was
any. Neither did he trouble his head with inquiring what
I had, or whether I had anything or no; so my title to
what I had got was clear.
I went now up and down just as I did before. I had
money, indeed, in my pocket, but I let nobody know it.
I went of errands cheerfully as before, and accepted of
what anybody gave me with as much thankfulness as ever.
The only difference that I made with myself was that if I
was hungry and nobody employed me, or gave me any-
thing to eat, I did not beg from door to door, as I did at
first, but went to a boiling-house, as I said once before,
and got a mess of broth and a piece of bread, price a
TRIES HIS HAND AT THE EXCHANGE.
39
half-penny; very seldom any meat, or, if I treated
myself, it was a half-penny-worth of cheese, all which
expense did not amount to above twopence or threepence
a week; for, contrary to the usage of the rest of the
tribe, I was extremely frugal, and I had not disposed of
any of the guineas which I had at first; neither, as I said
to the custom-house gentleman, could I tell what a gumea
was made of, or what it was worth.
After I had been about a month thus, and had done
nothing, my comrade, as I called him, came to me one
morning. Colonel Jack, says he, when shall you and I
take a walk again? When you will, said I. Have you got
no business yet? says he. No, says I; and so one thing
bringing in another, he told me I was a fortunate wretch,
and he believed I would be so again; but that he must
make a new bargain with me now, for, says he, Colonel,
the first time we always let a raw brother come in for full
share to encourage him, but afterwards, except it be when
he puts himself forward well, and runs equal hazard, he
stands to courtesy. But, as we are gentlemen, we always
do very honorable by one another, and if you are willing
to trust it, or leave it to me, I shall do handsomely by
yuu; that you may depend upon. I told him I was not
able to do anything, that was certain, for I did not under-
stand it. and therefore I could not expect to get anything,
but I would do as he bade me; so we walked abroad
together.
We went no more to the custom-house — it was too bold
a venture; besides, I did not care to show myself again,
especially with him in company; but we went directly to
the Exchange, and we hankered about in Castle Alley,
and in Swithin's Alley, and at the coffee-house doors. It
was a very unlucky day, for we got nothing all day but
two or three handkerchiefs, and came home to the old
COLONEL JACK.
lodgings at the glass-house; nor had I anything to eat oi'
drink all day, but a piece of bread which he gave me, and
some water at the conduit at the Exchange gate. So when
he was gone from me, for he did not lie in the glass-house
as I did, I went to my old broth-house for my usual bait,
and refreshed myself, and the next day early went to
meet him again, as he appointed me.
Being early in the morning he took his walk to Billings-
gate, where, it seems, two sorts of people make a great
crowd as soon as it is light, and at that time a-year
rather before daylight; that is to say, crimps, and the
masters of coal ships, who they call collier-masters; and,
secondly, fishmongers, fish-sellers, and buyers of fish.
It was the first of these people that he had his eye
upon. So he gives me my orders, which was thus: Go
you, says he, into all the ale-houses as we go along, and
observe where any people are telling of money, and when
you find any come and tell me. So he stood at the door,
and I went into the houses. As the collier-masters gen-
erally sell their coals at the gate, as they call it, so they
generally receive their money in those ale-houses, and it
was not long before I brought him word of several.
Upon this he went in and made his observations, but
found nothing to his purpose. At length I brought him
word that there was a man in such a house who had
received a great deal of money of somebody, I believed
of several people, and that it lay all upon the table in
heaps, and he was very busy writing down the sums, and
putting it up in several bags. Is he? says he; I'll war-
rant him I will have some of it. And in he goes. He
walks up and down the house, which had several open
tables and boxes in it, and he listened to hear, if he
could, what the man's name was; and he heard somebody
call him Cullum, or some such name. Then he watches
ROBS A COLLIER-MASTER AT BILLINGSGATE. 41
his opportunity, and steps up to him and tells him a long
story, that there were two gentlemen at the Gun Tavern
sent him to inquire for him, and to tell him they desired
to speak with him.
The collier-master had his money lying before him, just
as I had told him, and had two or three small payments
of money, which he had put up in little black, dirty bags,
and lay by themselves, and as it was hardly broad day
he found means, in delivering his message, to lay his
hand upon one of those bags, and carry it off perfectly
undiscovered.
When he had got it he came out to me, who stood but
at the door, and, pulling me by the sleeve, Run, Jack, says
he, for our lives. And away he scours, and I after him,
never resting, or scarce looking about me, till we got
quite up hit > Fenchurch .Street, through Lime Street, into
Leadenhall Street, down St. Mary-Axe, to London-wall,
then through Bishopsgate Street, and down Old Bedlam
into Moorflelds. By this time we were neither of us able
to run very fast, nor need we have gone so far, for I
never found that anybody pursued us. When we got
into Moorflelds, and began to take breath, I asked him
what it was frightened him so. Fright me, you fool,
says he, I have got a devilish great bag of money. A
bag! said I. Ay, ay, said he, let us get out into the
fields where nobody can sec us, and I'll show it you. So
away he had me through Long Alley, and cross Hog Lane,
and Holloway Lane, into the middle of the great field
which, since that, has been called the Farthing Pie-house
Fields. There we would have sat down, but it was all
full of water. So we went on, crossed the road at
Anniseed Cleer, and went into the field where now the
great hospital stands, and, finding a bye place, we sat
down, and he pulls out the bag. Thou art a lucky boy,
COl.ONK!. JACK.
Jack, says he; thou deservest a good share of this job
truly, for it is all along of thy lucky news. So he pours
it all out into my hat, for, as I told you, I now wore a
hat.
How he did to whip away such a bag of money from
any man that was awake and in his seuses, I cannot tell.
But there was a great deal in it, and among it a paper-full
by itself. When the paper dropped out of the bag,
Hold, says he, that is gold! and began to cow and
hollow like a mad boy. But there he was baulked, for it
was a paper of old thirteenpence-half-penny pieces, half
and quarter pieces, with ninepences, and fourpence-half-
pennies, all old crooked money, Scotch and Irish coin.
So he was disappointed in that. But as it was, there was
about 17L or 187. in the bag, as I understood by him;
for I could not tell money, not I.
Well, he parted this money into three; that is to say,
into three shares, two for himself, and one for me. and
asked if I was content. I told him, Yes, I had reason
to be contented. Besides, it was so much money added
to that I had left of his former adventure that I knew
not what to do with it, or with myself, while I had so
much about me.
This was a most exquisite fellow for a thief; for he
had the greatest dexterity at conveying anything away,
that he scarce ever pitched upon anything in his eye but
he carried it off with his hands, and never, that I know
of, missed his aim, or -was caught in the fact.
He was an eminent pickpocket, and very dexterous at
ladies' gold watches. But he generally pushed higher, at
such desperate things as these; and he came off the
cleanest, and with the greatest success imaginable. And
it was in these kinds of the wicked art of thieving that I
became his scholar.
ROBS A GENTLEMAN IN SWITIIlN's ALLEY.
13
As we were now so rich he would not let me lie any
longer in the glass-house, or go naked and ragged, as I
had done, but obliged me to buy two shiris, a waistcoat,
and a great coat; for a great coat was more for our pur-
pose in the business we were upon than any other. So I
clothed myself as he directed, and he took me a lodging
in the same house with him, and we lodged together in a
little garret fit for our quality.
Soon after this we walked out again, and then we tried
our fortune in the places by the Exchange a second time-
Here we began to act separately, and I undertook to
walk by myself; and the first thing I did accurately was
a trick I played that required some skill lor a new begin-
ner, for I had never seen any business of that kind done
before. I saw two gentlemen mighty eager in talk, and
one pulled out a pocket-book two or three times, and
then slipped it into his coat-pocket again, and then out it
came again, and papers were taken out, and others were
put in; and then in it went again, and so several times;
the man being still warmly engaged with another man,
and two or three others standing hard by them. The last
time he put his pocket-book into his pocket he might be
said to throw it in, rather than put it in with his hand
and the book lay end-way, resting upon some other book,
or something else in his pocket; so that it did not go
quite down, but one corner of it was seen above his
pocket.
This careless way of men putting their pocket-books
into a coat-pocket, which is so easily dived into by
the least boy that has been used to the trade, can never
be too much blamed. The gentlemen are in great hur-
ries, their heads and thoughts entirely taken up, and it is
impossible they should be guarded enough against such
little hawk's eyed creatures as we are; and, therefore,
II
COLONEL JACK.
they ought either never to put their pocket-books up at
all, or to put them up more secure, or to put nothing of
value into them. I happened to be just opposite to this
gentleman in that they call Swithin's Alley, or that alley,
rather, which is between Swithin's Alley and the Exchange,
just by a passage that goes out of the alley into the
Exchange, when, seeing the book pass and repass into the
pocket and out of the pocket, as above, it came immedi-
ately into my head, certainly I might get that pocket-book
out if I were nimble, and I warrant Will would have it if he
saw it go and come to and again as I did. But when I saw
it hang by the way, as I have said, now it is mine, said I
to myself, and, crossing the alley, I brushed smoothly, but
closely, by the man. with my hand down flat to my own
side, and, taking hold of it by the corner that appeared,
the book came so light into my hand it was impossible the
gentleman should feel the least motion, or anybody else
see me take it away. I went directly forward into the
broad place on the north side of the Exchange, then
scoured down Bartholomew Lane, so into Tokenhouse
Yard, into the alleys which pass through from thence to
London-wall, so through Moorgate, and sat down on the
grass in the second of the quarters of Moorfields, towards
the middle field, which was the place that Will and I had
appointed to meet at if either of us got any booty. When
I came thither Will was not come, but I saw him a com-
ing in about half an hour.
As soon as Will came to me I asked him what booty he
had gotten. He looked pale and, as I thought, frighted;
but he returned, I have got nothing, not I. But, you
lucky young clog, says he, what have you got? Have not
you got the gentleman's pocket-book in Swithin's Alley?
Yes, says I, and laughed at him; why, how did you
know it? Know it! says he: why, the gentleman is rav-
EXAMINES THE POCKET-BOOK.
45
ing and half distracted. He stamps and cries, and tears
his very clothes. He says he is utterly undone and
ruined, and the folks in the alley say there is I know not
how many thousand pounds in it. What can be in it?
says Will. Come, let us see.
Well, we lay close in the grass in the middle of the
quarter, so that nobody minded us; and so we opened the
pocket-book, and there was a great many bills and notes
under men's hands — some goldsmiths', and some belong-
ing to insurance offices, as they call them, and the like.
But that which was, it seems, worth all the rest was that in
one of the folds of the cover of the book, where there
was a case with several partitions. There was a paper full
of loose diamonds. The man, as we understood after-
ward, was a Jew, who dealt in such goods, and who,
indeed, ought to have taken more care of the keeping of
them,
Now was this booty too great even for Will himself
to manage; for, though by this time I was come to under-
stand things better than I did formerly, when I knew not
what belonged to money, yet Will was better skilled by
far in those things than I. But this puzzled him, too, as
well as me. Now were we something like the cock in the
fable; for all these bills, and I think there was one bill of
Sir Henry Furness's for 1200L, and all these diamonds,
which were worth about 5007., as they said — I say, all
these things were of no value to us. One little purse of
gold would have been better to us than all of it. But
come, says Will, let us look over the bills for a little one.
We looked over all the bills, and, among them, we
found a bill under a man's hand for 3'2l. Come, says
Will, let us go and inquire where this man lives. So we
went into the city again, and Will went to the post house,
and asked there. They told him he lived at Temple Bar.
n;
COLONEL JACK.
Well, says Will, I will venture, I'll go and receive the
money. It may be he has not remembered to send to
stop the payment there.
But it came into his thoughts to take another course.
Come, says Will, I'll go back to the alley, and see if I
can hear anything of what has happened, for I believe
the hurry is not over yet. It seems the man who lost
the book was carried into the King's Head tavern, at the
end of that alley, and a great crowd was about the door.
Away goes Will, and watches and waits about the
place; and then, seeing several people together — for they
were not all dispersed — he asks one or two what was the
matter. They tell him a long story of a gentleman who
had lost his pocket-book, with a great bag of diamonds
in it, and bills for a great many thousand pounds, and I
know not what; and that they had been just crying it,
and had offered 100L reward to any one who would dis-
cover and restore it.
I wish, said he, to one of them that parleyed with him,
I did but know who has it, I don't doubt but I could help
him to it again. Does he remember nothing of anybody,
boy, or fellow, that was near him? If he could but
describe him, it might do. Somebody that overheard
him was so forward to assist the poor gentleman that
they went up and let him know what a young fellow,
meaning Will, had been talking at the door; and down
comes another gentleman from him, and, taking Will
aside, asked him what he had said about it. Will was a
grave sort of a young man, that, though he was an old
soldier at the trade, had yet nothing of it in his counte-
nance ; and he answered that he was concerned in business
where a great many of the gangs of little pick-pockets
haunted, and if he had but the least description of the
person they suspected he durst say he could find him out,
47
and might perhaps get the things again for him. Upon
this he desired him to go up with him to the gentleman,
which he did accordingly. And there, he said, he sat lean-
ing his head back to the chair, pale as a cloth. Disconso-
late to a strange degree, and, as Will described him, just
like one under a sentence.
When they came to ask him whether he had seen uo
boy, or shabby fellow, lurking near where he stood, or
passing, or repassing, and the like, he answered, No, not
any. Neither could he remember that anybody had come
near him. Then, said Will, it will be very hard, if not
impossible, to find them out. However, said Will, if
you think it worth while, I will put myself among those
rogues; though, says he, I care not for being seen among
them; but I will put in amoug them, and if it be in any
of those gangs it is ten to one but I shall hear some-
thing of it.
They asked him then if he had heard what terms the
gentleman had offered to have it restored. He answered,
No (though he had been told at the door). They
answered, He had offered 100L That is too much, says
Will; but if you please to leave it to me I shall either
get it for you for less than that, or not be able to get it
for you at all. Then the losing gentlemau said to one of
the other, Tell him that if he can get it lower the
overplus shall be to himself. William said he would be
very glad to do the gentleman such a service, and would
leave the reward to himself. Well, young man, says one
of the gentlemen, whatever you appoint to the young
artist that has done this roguery (for I warrant he is an
artist, let it be who it will,) he shall be paid, if it be
within the 100Z., and the gentleman is willing to give you
501. besides for your pains.
Truly, sir, says Will, gravely, it was by mere chance,
COLONEL JACK.
tliut, coming by the door anil seeing the crowd, I asked
what the nutter was. But if I should be instrumental to
get the unfortunate gentleman his pocket-book, and the
things in it again, I shall be very glad. Nor am I so rich
neither, sir, but -i0l. is very well worth my while, too.
Then he took directions who to come to, and who to give
his account to if he learned anything, and the like.
CHAIM'EU IV.
WILL RETURNS THE POCKET-BOOK AND OBTAINS THE RE-
WARD WE KOB AN OLD KNIGHT IN SMITHFIELD OF A
BAG OF MONEY OTHER ADVENTURES, IN ALL OF WHICH
WE ARE SUCCESSFUL THE NOTION OF MY BEING A
GENTLEMAN, WHICH I ALWAYS ENTERTAIN, KEEPS ME
FROM SWEARING, DRINKING, AND SUCH LIKE VICES
WILL SEDUCES ME TO BECOME HIGHWAYMAN ADVEN-
TURES ON THE ROAD.
Will stayed so long that, as he and I agreed, I went
home, and he did not come to me till night; for we had
considered before that it would not be proper to come
from them directly to me, lest they should follow him and
apprehend me. If he had made no advances towards a
treaty he would have come back in half an hour, as we
agreed; but staying late, we met at our night rendezvous,
which was in Rosemary Lane.
When he came he gave an uccouut of all the dis-
course, and particularly what a consternation the gentle-
man was in who lost the pocket-book, and that he did
not doubt but we should get a good round sum for the
recovery of it.
We consulted all the evening about it, an! concluded
ACCEPTATION OF HIS OFFER.
49
he should let them hear nothing of him the nest day at
all; and that the third day he should go, but should make
no discovery, only that he had got a scent of it, and that
he believed he should have it, and make it appear as
difficult as possible, and to start as many objections as he
could. Accordingly, the third day after, he met with the
gentleman, who he found had been uneasy at his long
stay, and told him they were afraid that he ouly flattered
them to get from them; and that they had been too easy
in letting him go without a farther examination.
He took upon him to be very grave with them, and
told them that if that was what he was like to have for
being so free as to tell them he thought he might serve
them they might see that they had wronged him, and
were mistaken, by his coming again to them; that if they
thought they could do anything by examining him they
might go about it, if they pleased, now; that all he had
to say to them was that he knew where some of the
young rogues haunted who were famous for such things,
and that by some inquiries, offering them money, and the
like, he believed they would be brought to betray one
another, and that so he might pick it out for them; and
this he would say before a justice of peace, if they
thought fit; and then all that he had to say farther to
them was to tell them he had lost a day or two in their
service, and had got nothing, but to be suspected for his
pains; and that after that he had doue, and they might
seek their goods where they could find them.
They began to listen a little upon that, and asked him
if he could give them any hopes of recovering their loss.
He told them that he was not afraid to tell them that he
believed he had heard some news of them, and that what
he had done had prevented all the bills being burnt,
book and all; but that now he ought not to be asked any
more questions till they should be pleased to answer him
a question or two. They told him they would give him
any satisfaction they could, and bid him tell what he
desired.
Why, sir, says he, how can you expect any thief that
had robbed you to such a considerable value as thi*
would come and put himself into your hands, confess he
had your goods, and restore them to you, if you do not
give them assurance that you will not only give them the
reward you agreed to, but also give assurance that they
shall not be stopped, questioned, or called to account
before a magistrate?
They said they would give all possible assurance of it.
Nay, says he, I do not know what assurance you are
able to give; for when a poor fellow is in your clutches,
and has shown you your goods, you may seize upon him
for a thief, and it is pla'n he must be so. Then you go,
take away your goods, send him to prison, and what
amends can he have of you afterward?
They were entirely confounded with the difficulty.
They asked him to try if he could get the things into his
hands, and they would pay him the money before he let
them go out of his hand, and he should go away half an
hour before they went out of the room.
No, gentlemen, says he, that won't do, now. If you
had talked so before you had talked of apprehending me
for nothing I should have taken your words; but now it
is plain you have had such a thought in your heads, and
how can I, or any one else, be assured of safety?
Well, they thought of a great many particulars, but
nothing would do. At length the other people who were
present put in that they should give security to him by
a bond of 1000L that they would not give the person
any trouble whatsoever. He pretended they could not
MAKES AN AGREEMENT.
.'.1
be bound, nor could their obligation be of any value, and
that their own goods being once seen they might seize
them. And what would it signify, said he, to put a poor
pickpocket to sue for his reward? They could not tell
what to say, but told him that he should take the things
of the boy, if it was a boy, and they would be bound to
pay him the money promised. He laughed at them, and
said, No, gentlemen, as I am not the thief, so I shall be
very loath to put myself in the thief's stead, and lie at
your mercy.
They told him they knew not what to do, then, and that
it would be very hard he would not trust them at all.
He said he was very willing to trust them, and to serve
them, but that it would be very hard to be ruined and
charged with the theft for endeavoring to serve them.
They then offered to give it him under their hands
that they did not in the least suspect him; that they
would never charge him with anything about it; that
they acknowledged he went about to inquire after the
goods at their request; and that if he produced them
they would pay him so much money, at, or before, the
delivery of them, without obliging him to name or pro-
duce that person he had them from.
Upon this writing, signed by three gentlemen who were
present, and by the person in particular who lost the
things, the young gentleman told them he would go and
do his utmost to get the pocket-book and all that was
in it.
Then he desired that they would in writing, before-
hand, give him a particular of all the several things that
were in the book, that he might not have it said, when he
produced it, that there was not all; and he would have
the said writing sealed up, and he would make the book
be sealed up when it was given to him. This they agreed
COLONEL JACK.
to, aud the gentleman accordingly drew up a particular
of all the bills that he remembered, as he said, was in
the book, and also of the diamonds, as follows:
One bill under Sir Henry Furness's hand for 1200/.
One bill under Sir Charles Duncomb's hand for 800Z.,
250Z. indorsed off — 550Z.
One bill under the hand of J. Tassel, goldsmith, 165/.
One bill of Sir Francis Child, 39L
One bill of one Stewart, that kept a wager-office and
insurance, 350L
A paper containing thirty-seven loose diamonds, value
about 250L
A little paper containing three large rough diamonds
and one large one polished aud cut, value 185L
For all these things they promised, first, to give him
whatever he agreed with the thief to give him, not
exceeding 50Z , and to give him 50L more for himself for
procuring them
Now he had his cue, and now he came to me and told
me honestly the whole story, as above. So I delivered
him the book, aud he told me that he thought it was
reasonable we should take the full sum, because he would
seem to have done them some service, and so make them
the easier. All this 1 agreed to. So he went the next
day to the place, and the gentlemen met him very
punctually.
He told them at the first word he had doue their work,
and, as he hoped, to their mind; and told them if it had
not been for the diamonds he could have got all for 10Z.,
but that the diamonds had shone so bright in the boy's
imagination that he talked of running away to France or
Holland, and living there all his days like a gentleman,
at which they laughed. However, gentlemen, said he,
here is the book. And so pulled it out, wrapt up in a
dirty piece of a colored handkerchief, as black as the
street could make it, and sealed with a piece of sorry
wax, and the impression of a farthing for a seal.
Upon this, the note being also unsealed, at the same
time he pulled open the dirty rag and showed the geutle-
rnan his pocket-book; at which he was so over-surprised
with joy, notwithstanding all the preparatory discourse,
that he was fain to call for a glass of wine or brandy to
drink to keep him from fainting.
The book being opened, the paper of diamonds was
first taken out, and there they were, every one, only the
little paper was by itself, and the rough diamonds that
were in it were loose among the rest; but he owned they
were all there safe.
Then the bills were called over, one by one, and they
found one bill for 801. more than the account mentioned,
besides several papers which were not for money, though
of consequence to the gentleman, and he acknowledged
that all was very honestly returned. And now, young
man, said they, you shall see we will deal as honestly by
you. And so, in the first place, they gave him 50L for
himself and then they told out the 501. for me.
He took the 50L for himself, and put it up in his
pocket, wrapping it in paper, it being all in gold; then
he began to tell over the other 501.; but when he had
told out 30L, Hold, gentlemen, said he, as I have acted
fairly for you, so you shall have no reason to say I do
not do so to the end. I have taken 301., and for so
much I agreed with the boy; and so there is 201. of your
money again.
They stood looking one at another a good while, as
surprised at the honesty of it; for till that time they
were not quite without a secret suspicion that he was the
thief, but that piece of policy cleared up his reputation to
5-1
COLONEL JACK.
them. The gentleman that had got his bills said softly
to one of them, Give it him all; but the other said
(softly too), No, no, as long as he has got it abated, and
is satisfied with the 50Z. you have given him, 'tis very
well, let it go as it is. This was not spoke so softly but
he heard it, and said, No, too; I am very well satisfied.
I am glad I have got them for you. And so they began
to part.
But just before they were going away one of the
gentlemen said to him, Young man, come, you see we are
just to you, and have done fairly, as you have also, and
we will not desire you to tell us who this cunning fellow
is that got such a prize from this gentleman; but as you
have talked with him, pr'ythee, can you tell us nothing of
how he did it, that we may beware of such sparks again?
Sir, says Will, when I shall tell you what they say,
and how the particular case stood, the gentleman would
blame himself more than anybody else, or as much, at
least. The young rogue that catched this prize was out,
it seems, with a comrade, who is a nimble, experienced
pickpocket as most in London, but at that time the artist
was somewhere at a distance, and this boy never had
picked a pocket in his life before; but, he says, he stood
over against the passage into the Exchange on the east
side, and the gentleman stood just by the passage; thrit
he was very earnest in talking with some other gentle-
man, and often pulled out this book and opened it, and
took papers out, and put others in, and returned it into
his coat-pocket; that the last time it hitched at the
pocket-hole, or stopped at something that was in the
pocket, and hung a little out, which the boy, who had
watched it a good while, perceiving, he passes by close
to the gentleman, and carried it smoothly off, without the
gentleman's perceiving it at all.
DIVISION OF BOOTY.
55
He went on and said, 'Tis very strange gentlemen
should put pocket-books which have such things in them
into those loose pockets, and in so careless a manner.
That's very true, says the gentleman. And so, with
some other discourse of no great signification, he came
away to me.
We were now so rich that we scarce knew what to do
with our money; at least I did not, for I had no
relations, no friend, nowhere to put anything I had but in
my pocket. As for Will, he had a poor mother, but
wicked as himself, and he made her rich, and glad with
his good success.
We divided this booty equally; for, though the gaining
it was mine, yet the improving of it was his, and his
management brought the money; for neither he or I
could have made anything proportionable of the thing
any other way. As for the bills, there was no room to
doubt but unless they had been carried that minute to
the goldsmith's for the money, he would have come with
notice to stop the payment, and perhaps have come while
the money was receiving, and have taken hold of the
person. And then as to the diamonds, there had been
no offering them to sale by us poor boys to anybody but
those who were our known receivers, and they would
have given us nothing for them compared to what they
were worth; for, as I understood afterwards, those who
made a trade of buying stolen goods took care to have
false weights, and cheat the poor devil that stole them,
at least an ounce in three.
Upon the whole, we made the best of it many ways
besides. I had a strange kind of uninstructed conscience
at that time; for, though I made no scruple of getting
anything in this manner from anybody, yet I could not
bear destroying their bills and papers, which were things
that would do them a great deal of hurt, and do me no
good; and I was so tormented about it that I could not
rest night or day till I made the people easy from whom
the things were taken.
I was now rich, so rich that I knew not what to do
with my money, or with myself. I had lived so near and
so close that although, as I said, I did now and then lay
out twopence or threepence, for mere hunger, yet I had
so many people who, as I said, employed me, and who
gave me victuals, and sometimes clothes, that in a whole
year I had not quite spent the 15s. which I had saved of
the custom-house gentleman's money. And I had the four
guineas, which was of the first booty before that, still in
my pocket — I mean the money that I let fall into the
tree.
But now I began to look higher; and though Will
and I went abroad several times together, yet when
small things offered, as handkerchiefs, and such trifles,
we would not meddle with them, not caring to run the
risk for small matters. It fell out one day that, as we
were strolling about in West Smithfleld on a Friday,
there happened to be an ancient country gentleman in the
market, selling some very large bullocks. It seems they
came out of Sussex. His worship, for so they called
him, had received the money for these bullocks at a
tavern, whose sign I forget now, and, having some of it
in a bag, and the bag in his hand, he was taken with a
sudden fit of coughing, and stands to cough, resting his
hand with the bag of money in it upon the bulkhead of
a shop just by the Cloister-gate in Smithfleld; that is to
say, within three or four doors of it. We were both just
behind him. Says Will to me, Stand ready. Upon this
he makes an artificial stumble, and falls with his head
just against the old gentleman in the very moment when
KOBS A GENTLEMAN IN WEST SMITHFIELI). .r>7
he was coughing, ready to be strangled, and quite spent
for want of breath.
The violence of the blow beat the old gentleman quite
down. The bag of money did not immediately fly out of
his hand, but I run to get hold of it, and gave it a quick
snatch, pulled it clean away, and run like the wind down
the Cloisters with it; turned on the left hand, as soon as
I was through, and cut into Little Britain, so into
Bartholomew-close, then across Aldersgate Street, through
Paul's Alley into Redcross Street, and so cross all the
streets, through innumerable alleys, and never stopped
till I got into the second quarter of Moorfields, our old
agreed rendezvous.
Will, in the meantime, fell down with the old gentle-
man, but soon got up. The old knight, for such, it seems,
he was, was frightened with the fall, and his breath so
stopped with his cough that he could not recover himself
to speak till some time, during which nimble Will was
got up again, and walked off. Nor could he call out
Stop thief, or tell anybody he had lost anything, for a
good while; but, coughing vehemently, and looking red,
till he was almost black in the face, he cried, the ro
Hegh, hegh, hegh, the rogues — hegh, have got — hegh,
hegh, hegh, hegh, hegh, hegh, — then he would get a little
breath, and at it again; the rogues — hegh, hegh. And,
after a great many heghs and rogues, he brought it out,—
have got away my bag of money!
All this while the people understood nothing of the
matter; and as for the rogues, indeed, they had time
enough to get clear away, and in about an hour Will
came to the rendezvous. There we sat down in the grass
again,, and turned out the money, which proved to be
eight guineas, and 51. 12s. in silver, so that it made just
141. together. This we shared upon the spot, and went
to work the same day for more; but whether it was that,
being flushed with our success, we were not so vigilant,
or that no other opportunity offered, I know not, but we
got nothing more that night, nor so much as anything
offered itself for an attempt.
We took many walks of this kind, sometimes together,
at a little distance from one another, and several small
hits we made; but we were so flushed with our success
that truly we were above meddling with trifles, as I said
before, no, not such things that others would have been
glad of; nothing but pocket-books, letter-cases, or sums
of money would move us.
The next adventure was in the dusk of the evening,
in a court which goes out of Gracechurch Street into
Lombard Street, where the Quakers' meeting-house is.
There was a young fellow, who, as we learned afterward,
was a woollen-draper's apprentice in Gracechurch Street.
It seems he had been receiving a sum of money, which
was very considerable, and he comes to a goldsmith's
shop in Lombard Street with it; paid in the most of it
there; insomuch that it grew dark, and the goldsmith
began to be shutting in shop, and candles to be lighted.
We watched him in there, and stood on the other side of
the way to see what he did. When he had paid in all the
money he intended, he stayed still some time longer to
take notes, as I supposed, for what he had paid, and by
this time it was still darker than before. At last he
comes out of the shop, with still a pretty large bag under
his arm, and walks over into the court, which was then
very dark. In the middle of the court is a boarded
entry, and farther, at the end of it, a threshold; and as
soon as he had set his foot over the threshold he was to
turn on his left hand into Gracechurch Street.
Keep up, says Will to me, be nimble; and as soon as
ACHIEVES VARIOUS BOBBERIES. 59
he had said so he flies at the young man, and gives him
such a violent thrust that pushed hiiu forward with too
great a force for him to stand; and, as he strove to
recover, the threshold took his feet, and he fell forward
into the other part of the court, as if he had flown in the
air, with his head lying towards the Quakers' meeting-
house. I stood ready, and presently felt out the bag of
money, which I heard fall, for it flew out of his hand, he
having his life to save, not his money. I went forward
with the money, and Will, that threw him down, finding
I had it, run backward, and as I made along Fenehurch
Street Will overtook me, and we scoured home togethe.-.
The poor young man was hurt a little with the fall, and
reported to his master, as we heard afterward, that he
was knocked down, which was not true, for neither Will
or I had any stick in our hands; but the master of the
youth was, it seems, so very thankful that his young man
was not knocked down before he paid the rest of the
money (which was above 100L more) to the goldsmith,
who was Sir John Sweetapple, that he made no great
noise at the loss he had; and, as we heard afterward,
only warned his apprentice to be more careful, and come
no more through such places in the dark; whereas the
man had really no such deliverance as he imagined, for
we saw him before, when he had all the money about
him; but it was no time of day for such work as we
had to do, so that he was in no danger before.
This booty amounted to 291. 16s., which was 141. 18s.
a-piece, and added exceedingly to my store, which began
now to be very much too big for my management; and
indeed I began to be now full of care for the preservation
of what 1 had got. I wanted a trusty friend to commit
it to, but where was such a one to be found by a poor
boy, bred up among thieves? If I should have let any
COLON EI. JACK.
honest body know that I had so much money, they would
have asked me how I came by it, and would have been
afraid to take it into their hands, lest, I being some time
or other catched in my rogueries, they should be counted
the receivers of stolen goods, and the encouragers of a
thief.
We had, however, in the meantime, a great many
other successful enterprises, some of one kind, some of
another, and were never so much as in danger of being
apprehended; but my companion Will, who was now
grown a man, and encouraged by these advantages, fell
into quite another vein of wickedness, getting acquainted
with a wretched gang of fellows that turned their hands
to everything that was vile.
Will was a lusty, strong fellow, and withal very bold
and daring, would fight anybody, and venture upon any-
thing, and I found he began to be above the mean rank
of a poor pickpocket, so I saw him but seldom. How-
ever, once coming to me in a very friendly manner, and
asking me how I went on, I told him that I used the old
trade still; that I had had two or three good jobs, one with
a young woman, whose pocket I had picked of eleven
guineas, and another, a country-woman, just come out of
a stage-coach, seeing her pull out her bag to pay the
coachman, and that I followed her till I got an oppor-
tunity, and slipped it out so neatly that, though there
was 81. 17s. in it, yet she never felt it go. And several
other jobs I told him of, by which I made pretty good
purchase. I always said you were a lucky boy, Colonel
Jack, says he; but come, you are grown almost a man
now, and you shall not be always at play at push-pin; I
am got into better business, I assure you, and you shall
come into it, too. I'll bring you into a brave gang, Jack,
says he, where you shall see we shall be all gentlemen.
A NEW VUNTURK.
61
Then he told me the trade itself, in short, which was
with a set of fellows that had two of the most desperate
works upon their hands that belonged to the whole art of
thieving: that is to say, in the evening they were foot-
pads, and in the night they were housebreakers. Will
told me so many plausible stories, and talked of such
great things, that, in short, I, who had been always used
to do anything he bid me do, went with him without any
hesitation.
The first time I went with him he brought me into the
company only of two more young fellows. We met at
the lower part of Gray's Inn Lane, about an hour before
sunset, and went out into the fields toward a place called
Pindar of Wakefield, where are abundance of brick-kilns;
here it was agreed to spread from the field-path to the
road-way, all the way towards Pancras church, to observe
any chance game, as they called it, which they might shoot
flying. Upon the path, within the bank, on the side of
the road going towards Kentish-town, two of our gang,
Will and one of the other, met a single gentleman, walking
apace towards the town. Being almost dark, Will cried,
Mark, ho! which, it seems, was the word at which we
were all to stand still at a distance, come in, if he wanted
help, and give a signal if anything appeared that was
dangerous.
Will steps up to the gentleman, stops him, and put the
question; that is, Sir, your money? The gentleman,
seeing he was alone, struck at him with his cane, but
Will, a nimble, strong fellow, flew in upon him, and,
with struggling, got him down. Then he begged for his
life, Will having told him with an oath that he would cut
his throat. In that moment, while this was doing, comes
a hackney-coach along the road, and the fourth man,
who was that way, cries, Mark, ho! which was to
COLONEL .TACK.
intimate that it was a prize, not a surprise; and accord-
ingly the next man went up to assist him, where they
stopped the coach, which had a doctor of physic and a
surgeon in it, who had been to visit some considerable
patient, and, I suppose, had considerable fees, for here
they got two good purses, one with eleven or twelve
guineas, the other six, with some pocket-money, two
watches, one diamond ring, and the surgeon's plaster-box,
which was, most of it, full of silver instruments.
While they were at this work Will kept the man down
who was under him, and, though he promised not to kill
him unless he offered to make a noise, yet he would not
let him stir till he heard the noise of the coach going on
again, by which he knew the job was over on that side.
Then he carried him a little out of the way, tied his hands
behind him, and bid him lie still and make no noise, and
he would come back in half an hour and untie him, upon
his word: but if he cried out he would come back and
kill him.
The poor man promised to lie still and make no noise,
and did so; and had not above lis. fid. in his pocket,
which Will took, and came back to the rest. But while
they were together I, who was on the side of the Pindar
of Wakefield, cried Mark, ho! too.
What I saw was a couple of poor women, one a kind of
a nurse, and the other a maid-servant, going for Kentish
Town. As Will knew that I was but young at the work he
came flying to me, and, seeing how easy a bargain it was, he
said, Go, Colonel, fall to work. I went up to them, and,
speaking to the elderly woman, Nurse, said I, don't be in
such haste, I want to speak with you; at which they both
stopped and looked a little frighted. Don't be frighted,
sweetheart, said I to the maid; a little of that money in
the bottom of your pocket will make all easy, and I will
ROBS TWO POOR WOMEN NEAR KENTISH TOWN. Go
do you no harm. By this time Will came up to us, for
they did not see him before; then they began to scream
out. Hold! says I, make no noise, unless you have a
mind to force us to murder you whether we will or no.
Give me your money presently, aud make no words, and
we sha'n't hurt you. Upon this the poor maid pulled out
5s. 6cL, and the old woman a guinea and a shilling, cry-
ing heartily for her money, and said it was all she had
left in the world. Well, we took it, for all that, though it
made my very heart bleed to see what agony the poor
woman was in at parting with it, and I asked her where
she lived. She said her name was Smith, and she lived
at Kentish Town. I said nothing to her, but bid them
go on about their business, and I gave Will the money,
so in a few minutes we were all together again. Says
one of the other rogues, Come, this is well enough for one
road, it's time to be gone. So we jogged away, crossing
the fields out of the path towards Tottenham Court. But
hold! says Will, I must go and untie the man. D—n
him, says one of them, let him lie. No, says Will, I
won't be worse than my word, I will untie him. So he
went to the place, but the man was gone. Either he had
untied himself, or somebody had passed by and he had
called for help, and so was untied, for he could not fmd
him, nor make him hear, though he ventured to call twice
for him aloud.
Having made this adventure, we left the road and went
over the fields to Chelsea. In ttie way from Westminster
to Chelsea we met three gentlemen, but they were too
strong for us to meddle with. They had been afraid to
come over the fields so late (for by this time it was eight
o'clock, and though the moon gave some light, yet it was
too late and too dark to be safe), so they hired three men
at Chelsea, two with pitchforks, and the third, a water-
COLONEL JACK.
man, with a boat-hook staff, to guard them. We would
have steered clear of them, and cared not to have them
see us, if we could help it, but they did see us, and cried,
Who comes there? We answered, Friends; and so they
went on, to our great satisfaction.
CHAPTER V.
MY NEW PROFESSION VERY HATEFUL TO ME WILL IS IN
GREAT DANGER OF BEING TAKEN FOR A HOUSEBREAKING
AT HOUNSLOW HE LEAVES HIS PLUNDER UNDER MY
BED—-I MEET WITH HIM BY ACCIDENT, AND RECEIVE
HIS DIRECTIONS HOW TO DISPOSE OF THE STOLEN GOODS
I MEET CAPTAIN JACK, WHO INFORMS ME WILL IS
COMMITTED TO NEWGATE — I PAY A VISIT TO MY OLD
FRIEND MENTIONED IN THE THIRD CHAPTER — CONVER-
SATION WITH HIM — I AM APPREHENDED CONSE-
QUENCES THEREOF.
When we came to Chelsea it seems we had other work
to do, which I had not been made privy to, and this was a
house to be robbed. They had some intelligence, it seems,
with a servant in the house, who was of their gang.
This rogue was a waiting-man, or footman, and he had a
watchword to let them in by; but this fellow, not for
want of being a villain, but by getting drunk and not
minding his part of the work, disappointed us; for he
had promised to rise at two o'clock in the morning and let
us all in, but, being very drunk, and not come in at
eleven o'clock, his master ordered him to be shut out, and
the doors locked up, and charged the other servants not
to let him in upon any terms whatsoever.
We came about the house at one o'clock to make our
A HOUSE TO BE ROBBED.
65
observations, intending to go and lie under Beaufort
House wall till the clock struck two, and then to come
again; but, behold! when we came to the house there lay
the fellow at the door, fast asleep, and very drunk. Will,
who, I found, was the leader in all these things, waked the
fellow, who, as he had had about two hours' sleep, was a
little come to himself, and told them the misfortune, as he
called it, and that he could not get in. They had some
instruments about them, by which they could have broken
in by force, but Will considered that as it was but wait-
ing till another time and they should be let in quietly,
they resolved to give it over for that time.
But this was a happy drunken bout for the family; for
the fellow having let fall some words in his drink (for he
was a saucy one as well as a drunken one, and talked
oddly,) as that it had been better they had let him in,
and he would make them pay dear for it, or some such
thing, the master, hearing of it, turned him away in
the morning, and never let him come into his house again.
So, I say, it was a happy drunkenness to the family, for
it saved them from being robbed, and perhaps murdered,
for they were a cursed bloody crew, and, as I found, were
about thirteen of them in all, whereof three of them
made it their business to get into gentlemen's services,
and so to open doors in the night, and let the other
rogues in upon them to rob and destroy them.
I rambled this whole night with them. They went
from Chelsea, being disappointed there as above, to Ken-
sington. There they broke into a brew-house and wash-
house, and by that means into an out-kitchen of a gentle-
man's house, where they unhanged a small copper, and
brought it off, and stole about a hundred weight of pew-
ter, and went clear off with that, too; and every one
going their own by-ways, they found means to get safe to
COLONEL JACK.
their several receptacles where they used to dispose of
such things.
We lay still the next day, and shared the effects stolen
that night, of which my share came to SI. 19s. The cop-
per and pewter being weighed and cast up, a person was
at hand to take it as money, at about half value, and in
the afternoon Will and I came away together. Will was
mighty full of the success we had had, and how we might
be sure of the like this way every day. But he observed
that I did not seem so elevated at the success of that
night's ramble as I used to be, and also that I did not
take any great notice of the expectations he was in of
what was to come; yet I had said little to him at that
time.
Two days after this Will came to my lodging; for I had
now got a room by myself, had bought me tolerable good
clothes and some shirts, and began to look like other
folks. But, as it happened, I was abroad upon the scout
in another way; for, though I was not hardened enough
for so black a villain as Will would have had me be, yet
I had not arrived to any principle sufficient to keep me
from a life, in its degree wicked enough, which tended to
the same destruction, though not in so violent and pre-
cipitant degrees. I had his message delivered to me,
which was to meet him the next evening at such a place,
and, as I came in time enough to go, I went to the place,
but resolved beforehand that I would not go any more
with him among the gang.
However, to my great satisfaction, I missed him, for
he did not come at all to the place, but met with the
gang at another place, they having sent for him in haste
upon the notice of some booty, and so they went all away
together. This was a summons, it seems, from one of
the creatures which they had abroad in a family, where
SOME OF THE PARTY CAPTURED.
67
an opportunity offered them to commit a notorious rob-
bery, down almost as far as Hounslow, and where they
wounded a gentleman's gardener so that I think he died,
and robbed the house of a very considerable sum of
money and plate.
This, however, was not so clean carried, nor did they
get in so easy, but by the resistance they met with the
neighbors were all alarmed, and the gentlemen rogues
were pursued, and, being at London with the booty, one
of them was taken. Will, a dexterous fellow, and head
of the gang, made his escape, and, though in his clothes,
with a great weight about him of both money and plate,
plunged into the Thames, and swam over where there
was no path, or road, leading to the river, so that nobody
suspected any one's going that way. Being got over, he
made his way, wet as he was, into some woods adjacent,
and, as he told me afterwards, not far from Chertsey,
and stayed lurking about in the woods or fields thereabout
till his clothes were dry; then, in the night, got down to
Kingston, and so to Mortlake, where he got a boat to
London.
He knew not that one of his comrades was taken; only
he knew that they were all so closely pursued that they
were obliged to disperse, and every one to shift for him-
self. He happened to come home in the evening, as good
luck then directed him, just after search had been made
for him by the constables, his companion, who was taken,
having, upon promise of favor, and of saving him from
the gallows, discovered his companions, and Will, among
the rest, as the principal party in the whole undertaking.
Will got notice of this just time enough to run for it,
and not to be taken, and away he came to look for me;
but, as my good fate still directed, I was not at home
neither. However, he left all his booty at my lodging,
COLONKI. JACK.
and hid it in an old coat that lay under my bedding, and
left word that my brother Will had been there, and had
left his coat that he borrowed of me, and that it was
under my bed.
I knew not what to make of it, but went up to go to bed,
and, finding the parcel, was perfectly frighted to see,
wrapped up in it, above one hundred pound in plate and
money, and yet knew nothing of brother Will, as he
called himself, nor did I hear of him for three or four
days.
At the end of four days I heard, by great accident,
that Will, who used to be seen with me, and who called
me brother, was taken and would be hanged. Next day
a poor man, a shoemaker, that used formerly to have a
kindness for me, and to send me of errands, and gave me
sometimes some victuals, seeing me accidentally in Rose-
mary Lane going by him, clasped me fast hold by the
arm. Hark ye, young man, says he, have I catched you?
and hauled me along as if 1 had been a thief apprehended,
and he the constable. Hark ye, Colonel Jack, says he
again, come along with me, I must speak with you.
What, are you got into this gang, too? What, are you
turned housebreaker? Come, I'll have you hanged, to be
sure.
These were dreadful words to me, who, though not
guilty of the particular thing in question, yet was frighted
heartily before, and did not know what I might be charged
with by Will, if he was taken, as I heard that very morn-
ing he was. With these words the shoemaker began to
haul and drag me along as he used to do when I was a
boy.
However, recovering my spirits, and provoked to the
highest degree, I said to him again, What do you mean,
Mr. ?Let me alone, or you will oblige me to make
ADVISED TO KEEP BETTEU COMPANY.
69
you do it; and with that I stopped short, and soon let
him see I was a little too big to be hauled about as I used
to be when I run of his errands, and made a motion with
my other hand as if I would strike him in the face.
How, Jack! says he, will you strike me? will you
strike your old friend? and then he let go my arm and
laughed. Well, but hark ye, Colonel, says he, I am in
earnest; I hear bad news of you; they say you are gotten
into bad company, and thr.t this Will calls you brother.
He is a great villain, and 1 hear he is charged with a
bloody robbery, and will be hanged, if he is taken. I
hope you are not concerned with him; if you are I would
advise you to shift for yourself, for the constable and the
head-borough are after him to-day, and if he can lay any-
thing to you he will do it, you may be sure; he will cer-
tainly hang you to save himself.
This was kind, and I thanked him, but told him this
was a thing too serious, and that had too much weight iu
it, to be jested with as he had done before; and that
some ignorant stranger might have seized upon me as a
person guilty, who had no farther concern in it than just
knowing the man, and so I might have been brought into
trouble for nothing; at least, people might have thought
I was among them, whether I was or no, and it would
have rendered me suspected, though I was innocent.
He acknowledged that, told me he was but in jest, and
that he talked to me just as he used to do. However,
Colonel, says he, I won't jest any more with you in a
thing of such a dangerous consequence; I only advise
you to keep the fellow company no more.
I thanked him, and went away, but in the greatest per-
plexity imaginable. And now, not knowing what to do
with myself, or with the little ill-gotten wealth which I
had, I went musing and alone into the fields towards Step-
COLONEL JACK.
ney, my usual walk, and there began to consider what to
do; and as this creature had left his prize in my garret I
began to think that if he should be taken, and should con-
fess, and send the officers to search there for the goods,
and they should find them, I should be undone, and should
be taken up for a confederate; whereas, I knew nothing
of the matter, and had no hand in it.
While I was thus musing, and in great perplexity, I
heard somebody halloo to me, and, looking about, I saw
Will running after me. I knew not what to think at first,
but seeing him alone was the more encouraged, and I
stood still for him. When he came up to me I said to
him, What is the matter, Will? Matter! says Will, mat-
ter enough; I am undone. When was you at home?
I saw what you left there, says I; what is the mean-
ing of it, and where got you all that? Is that your being
undone?
Ay, says Will, I am undone for all that, for the officers
are after me; and I am a dead dog if I am taken, for
George is in custody, and he has peached me and all the
others to save his life.
Life! says I; why should you lose your life if they
should take you? Pray, what would they do to you?
Do to me! says he; they would hang me if the king
had ne'er another soldier in his guards; I shall certainly
be hanged as I am now alive.
This frighted me terribly, and I said, And what will
you do then? Nay, says he, I know not. I would get
out of the nation if I knew how, but I am a stranger to
all those things, and I know not what to do, not I.
Advise me, Jack, says he; prithee, tell me whither shall I
go? I have a good mind to go to sea.
You talk of going away, says I; what will you do with
all you have hid in my garret? It must not lie there,
MEETS WILL BY ACCIDENT.
71
said I; for if I should be taken up for it, and it be found
to be the money you stole, I shall be ruined.
I care not what becomes of it, not I, says Will; I'll
be gone; do you take it, if you will, and do what you
will with it; I must fly, and I cannot take it with me. I
won't have it, not I, says I to him. I'll go and fetch it
to you if you will take it, says I, but I won't meddle
with it. Besides, there is plate; what shall I do with
plate? said I. If I should offer to sell it anywhere, said
[, they will stop me.
As for that, says Will, 1 could sell it well enough, if I
had it, but I must not be seen anywhere among my old
acquaintance, for I am blown, and they will all betray
me; but I will tell you where you shall go and sell it, if
you will, and they will ask you no questions, if you give
them the word that I will give you. So he gave me the
word, and directions to a pawnbroker, near Cloth-fair;
the word was Good tower standard. Having these in-
structions, he said to me, Colonel Jack, I am sure you
won't betray me; and I promise you, if I am taken, and
should be hanged, I won't name you. I will go to such a
house (naming a house at Bromley by Bow, where he
and I had often been), and there, says he, I'll stay till it
is dark; at night I will come near the streets, and I will
lay under such a haystack all night (a place we both
knew also very well); and if you cannot finish to come
to me there, I will go back to Bow.
I went back and took the cargo, went to the place by
Cloth-fair, and gave the word Good tower standard; and,
without any words, they took the plate, weighed it, and
paid me after the rate of 2s. per ounce for it; so I came
away and went to meet him, but it was too late to meet
him at the first place; but I went to the haystack, and
there I found him fast asleep.
COLONEL JACK.
1 delivered him his cargo; what it really amounted to
I knew not, for I never told it; but I went home to my
quarters very late and tired. I went to sleep at first,
but, notwithstanding I was so weary, I slept little or
none for several hours. At last, being overcome with
sleep, I dropped, but was immediately roused with noise
of people knocking at the door, as if they would beat it
down, and crying and calling out to the people of the
house, Rise, and let in the constable here; we come for
your lodger in the garret.
I was frighted to the last degree, and started up in
my bed; but when I was awaked I heard no noise at all,
but of two watchmen thumping at the doors with their
staves, and giving the hour, Past three o'clock, and a
rainy, wet morning, for such it was. I was very glad
when I found it was but a dream, and went to bed again,
but was soon roused a second time with the same, very
same noise and words; then, being sooner awaked than
I was before, I jumped out of bed, and run to the win-
dow, and found it was just an hour more, and the watch-
men were come about, Past four o'clock, and they went
away again very quietly. So I lay me down again, and
slept the rest of the night quietly enough.
I laid no stress upon the thing called a dream, neither
till now did I understand that dreams were of any im-
portance; but, getting up the next day, and going out
with a resolution to meet brother Will, who should I meet
but my former brother, Captain Jack. When he saw me
he came close to me in his blunt way, and says, Do you
hear the news? No, not I, said I, what news? Your
old comrade and teacher is taken this morning and carried
to Newgate. How, says I, this morning? Yes, says he,
this morning, at four o'clock. He is charged with a rob-
bery and murder somewhere beyond Brentford; and that
WILL IS COMMITTED.
73
which is worse is that he is impeached by one of the
gang, who, to save his own life, has turned evidence;
and therefore you had best consider, says the captain,
what you have to do. What I have to do! says I; and
what do you mean by that? Nay, colonel, says he, don't
be angry, you know best; if you are not in danger I am
glad of it, but I doubt not but you were with them. No,
not I, said I again; I assure you I was not. Well, says
he, but if you were not with them this bout, you have
been with them at other times, and 'twill be all one.
Not I, says I, you are quite mistaken. I am none of their
gang; they are above my quality. With such, and a
little more talk of that kind, we parted, and Captain
Jack went away; but as he went I observed he shook
his head, seemed to have more concern upon him than he
could be supposed to have merely on my account, of
which we shall hear more very quickly,
I was extremely alarmed when I heard Will was in
Newgate, and, had I known where to have gone, would
certainly have fled as far as legs would have carried me.
My very joints trembled, and I was ready to sink into the
ground. And all that evening and that night following I
was in the uttermost consternation; my head run upon
nothing but Newgate and the gallows, and being hanged,
which, I said, I deserved, if it were for nothing but tak-
ing that two-and-twenty shillings from the poor old nurse.
The first thing my perplexed thoughts allowed me to
take care of was my money. This indeed lay in a little
compass, and I carried it generally all about me. I had
got together, as you will perceive by the past account,
above CM. (for I spent nothing), and what to do with it
I knew not. At last it came into my head that I would go
to my benefactor, the clerk at the custom-house, if he
was to be found, and see if I could get him to take the
COLONEL JACK.
rest of my money. The only business was to make a
plausible story to him, that he might not wonder how I
came by so much money.
But my invention quickly supplied that want. There
was a suit of clothes at one #f our houses of rendezvous,
which was left there for any of the gang to put on, upon
particular occasions, as a disguise. This was a green
livery, laced with pink-colored galloon, and lined with
the same, an edged hat, a pair of boots, and a whip. I
went and dressed myself up in this livery, and went to
my gentleman, to his house in Tower Street, and there I
found him in health, and well, just the same honest
gentleman as ever.
He stared at me when first I came to him, for I met
him just at his door — I say he stared at me, and seeing
me bow, and bow to him several times, with my laced hat
under my arm. At last, not knowing me in the least, says
he to me, Dost thou want to speak with me, young man?
and I said, Yes, sir; I believe your worship (I had learnt
some manners now) does not know me; I am the poor
boy Jack. He looked hard at me, and then, recollecting
me presently, says he, Who, Colonel Jack! Why, where
hast thou been all this while? Why, 'tis five or six years
since I saw you. 'Tis above six years, and please your
worship, says I.
Well, and where hast thou been all this while? says
he.
I have been in the country, sir, says I, at service.
Well, Colonel Jack, says he, you give long credit.
What's the reason you han't fetched your money all this
while, nor the interest? Why, you will grow so rich in
time by the interest of your money, you won't know
what to do with it.
To that I said nothing, but bowed and scraped a great
INVESTS MOKE MONEY WITH HIS BANKER.
75
many times. Well, come, Colonel Jack, said he, come
in, and I will give you your money, and the interest of it,
too.
I cringed, and bowed, and told him I did not come to
him for my money, for I had had a good place or two,
and I did not want my money.
Well, Colonel Jack, says he, and who do you live
with?
Sir Jonathan Loxham, said I, sir, in Somersetshire,
and please your worship. This was a name I had heard
of, but knew nothing of any such gentleman, or of the
country.
Well, says he, but won't you have your money, Jack?
No, sir, said I, if your worship would please, for I
have had a good place.
If I would please to do what, prithee? Your money is
ready, I tell thee.
No, sir, said I, but I have had a good piace.
Well, and what dost thou mean, Jack? I do not
understand thee.
Why, and please your worship, my old master, Sir
Jonathan's father, left me 301. when he died, and a suit
of mourning, and —
And what, prithee, Jack? What, hast thou brought me
more money? For then he began to understand what I
meant.
Yes, sir, said I, and your wwship would be so good to
take it, and put it all together. I have saved some, too,
out of my wages.
I told you, Jack, says he, you would be rich. And how
much hast thou saved? Come, let me see it.
To shorten the story, I pulled it out, and he was con-
tent to take it, giving me his note, with interest, for the
whole sum, which amounted to 94L, that is to say : —
COLONEL JACK.
251. The first money.
9L For six years' interest.
60L Now paid him.
94L
I came away exceeding joyful, made him abundance of
bows and scrapes, and went immediately to shift my
clothes again, with a resolution to run away from London,
and see it no more for a great while. But I was surprised
the very next morning, when, going cross Rosemary
Lane, by the end of the place which is called Rag-fair, I
heard one call Jack. He had said something before,
which I did not hear, but upon hearing the name Jack I
looked about me, immediately saw three men, and after
them a constable coming towards me with great fury. I
was in a great surprise, and started to run, but one of
them clapped in upon me, and got hold of me, and in a
moment the rest surrounded me, and I was taken. I
asked them what they wanted, and what I had done.
They told me it was no place to talk of that there, but
showed me their warrant, and bade me read it, and I
should know the rest when I came before the justice. So
they hurried me away.
I took the warrant, but, to my great affliction, I could
know nothing by that, for I could not read; so I desired
them to read it, and they read it: that they were to appre-
hend a known thief, that went by the name of one of the
three Jacks of Rag-fair, for that he was charged upon
oath with having been a party in a notorious robbery,
burglary, and murder, committed so and so, in such a
place, and on such a day.
It was to no purpose for me to deny it, or to say I
knew nothing of it. That was none of their business, they
said. That must be disputed, they told me, before the
APPREHENDED ON SUSPICION.
77
justice, where I would find that it was sworn positively
against me, and then, perhaps, I might be better satisfied.
I had no remedy but patience: and, as my heart was
full of terror and guilt, so I was ready to die with the
weight of it as they carried me along, for as I very well
knew that I was guilty of the first day's work, though I
was not of the last, so I did not doubt but I should be
sent to Newgate, and then I took it for granted I must
be hanged; for to go to Newgate, and to be hanged,
were to me as things which necessarily followed one
another.
But I had a sharp conflict to go through before it came
to that part, and that was before the justice, where,
when I was come, and the constable brought me in, the
justice asked me my name. But hold, says he, young
man, before I ask you your name, let me do you justice;
you are not bound to answer till your accusers come. So,
turning to the constable, he asked for his warrant.
Well, says the justice, you have brought this young
man here by virtue of this warrant. Is this young man
the person for whom this warrant is granted?
Con. 1 believe so, and please your worship.
Just. Believe so! Why, are you not sure of it?
Con. An't please your worship, the people said so
where I took him.
Just. It is a very particular kind of warrant; it is to
apprehend a young man who goes by the name of Jack,
but no surname, only that it is said he is called Captain
Jack, or some other such name. Now, young man, pray
is your name Captain Jack, or are you usually called so?
I presently found that the men that took me knew
nothing of me, and the constable had taken me up by
hearsay. So I took ln-art, and told the justice that I
thought, with submission, that it was not the present
COLONEL JACK.
question what my name was, but what these men or any
one else had to lay to my charge; whether I was the
person who the warrant empowered them to apprehend
or no.
He smiled. 'Tis very true, young man, says he, it is
very true; and on my word, if they have taken you up,
and do not know you, and there is nobody to charge you,
they will be mistaken, to their own damage.
Then I told his worship I hoped I should not be
obliged to tell my name till my accuser was brought to
charge me, and then I should not conceal my name.
It is but reason, said his worship. Mr. Constable,
turning to the officers, are you sure this is the person
that is intended in your warrant? If you are not you
must fetch the person that accuses him, and on whose
oath the warrant was granted. They used many words
to insinuate that I was the person, and that I knew it
well enough, and that I should be obliged to tell my
name.
I insisted on the unreasonableness of it, and that I
should not be obliged to accuse myself, and the justice
told them, in so many words, that he could not force me
to it; that I might do it if I would, indeed; but you see,
says the justice, he understood too well, to be imposed
upon in that case. So that, in short, after an hour's
debating before his worship, in which time I pleaded
against four of them, the justice told them they must
produce the accuser, or he must discharge me.
I was greatly encouraged at this, and argued with the
more vigor for myself. At length the accuser was
brought, fettered as he was, from the gaol, and glad I was
when I saw him, and found that I knew him not; that is
to say, that it was not one of the two rogues that I went
out with that night that we robbed the poor old woman.
HONORABLY ACQUITTED.
79
When the prisoner was brought into the room he was
set right against me.
Do you know this young man? says the justice.
No, sir, says the prisoner, I never saw him in my life.
Hum! says the justice, did not you charge one that
goes by the name of Jack, or Captain Jack, as concerned
in the robbery and murder which you are in custody for?
Pris. Yes, an't please your worship, says the prisoner.
Just. And is this the man, or is he not?
Pris. This is not the man, sir. I never saw this man
before.
Very good. Mr. Constable, says the justice, what
must we do now?
I am surprised, says the constable. I was at such a
house, naming the house, and this young man went by.
The people cried out, There's Jack, that's your man, and
these people ran after him, and apprehended him.
Well, says the justice, and have these people anything
to say to him? Can they prove that he is the person?
One said no, and the other said no, and, in short, they
all said no. Why, then, said the justice, what can be
done? The young man must be discharged, and I must
tell you, Mr. Constable, and you gentlemen, that have
brought him hither, he may give you trouble, if he thinks
fit, for your being so rash. But look you, young man,
says the justice, you have no great damage done you,
and the constable, though he has been mistaken, had no
ill design, but to be faithful to his office; I think you
may pass it by.
I told his worship I would readily pass it by at his
direction, but I thought the constable and the rest could
do no less than to go back to the place where they had
insulted me, and declare publicly there that I was honor-
ably acquitted, and that I was not the man. This, his
COLONEL JACK.
worship said, was very reasonable, and the constable and
his assistants promised to do it, and so we came all away
good friends, and I was cleared with triumph.
Note.—This was the time that, as I mentioned above)
the justice talked to me, and told me I was born to better
things, and that by my well-managing of my own defence
he did not question but I had been well educated; and
that he was sorry I should fall into such a misfortune as
this, which he hoped, however, would be no dishonor to
me, since I was so handsomely acquitted.
CHAPTER VI.
I VISIT WILL, MY TCTOR IN WICKEDNESS, IN NEWGATE
HE IS EXECUTED I ENLIST FOR A SOLDIER WE
DESERT ADVENTURES THEREUPON.
Though his worship was mistaken in the matter of my
education, yet it had this good effect upon me: that I
resolved, if possible, I would learn to read and write,
that I would not be such an uncapable creature that I
should not be able to read a warrant and see whether I
was the person to be apprehended or not.
But there was something more in all this than what I
have taken notice of, for, in a word, it appeared plainly
that my brother, Captain Jack, who had the forwardness
to put it to me whether I was among them or no, when
in truth he was there himself, had the only reason to ba
afraid to fly, at the same time that he advised me to shift
for myself.
As this presently occurred to my thoughts so I made it
my business to inquire and find him out, and to give him
notice of it.
VISITS WILL IN NEWGATE.
81
In the meantime, being now confident of my own
safety, I had no more concern upon my mind about
myself. But now I began to be anxious for poor Will,
my master and tutor in wickedness, who was now fast by
the heels in Newgate, while I was happily at liberty, and
I wanted very much to go and see him, and accordingly
did so.
I found him in a sad condition, loaden with heavy
irons, and had himself no prospect or hope of escaping.
He told me he should die, but bid me be easy, for, as it
would do him no good to accuse me, who never was out
with any of them but that once, so, I might depend upon
it, he would not bring me into the trouble. As for the
rogue who had betrayed them all he was not able to
hurt me, for I might be satisfied he had never seen me in
his life. But, Colonel Jack, says he, I will tell you who
was with us, and that is your brother the captain, and
the villain has certainly named him; and, therefore, says
he, if you can give him timely notice of it, do, that he
may make his escape.
He said a great many things to warn me of following
the steps he had led me. I was far out, Jack, said he,
when I told you to be a notorious thief was to live like a
gentleman. He chiefly discovered his concern that they
had, as he feared, killed the gentleman's gardener, and
that he in particular had given him a wound in the neck,
of which he was afraid he would die.
He had a great sum of money in gold about him, being
the same that I had carried back to him at the haystack,
and he had concealed it so well that those who took him
had not found it, and he gave me the greatest part of it
to carry to his mother, which I very honestly delivered,
and came away with a heavy heart. Nor did I ever see
him since, for he was executed in about three weeks'
COLONEL JACK.
time after, being condemned that very next sessions.
I had nothing to do now but to find the captain, who,
though not without some trouble, I at last got news of,
and told him the whole story, and how I had been taken
up for him by mistake, and was come off, but that the
warrant was still out for him, and very strict search after
him. I say, telling him all this, he presently discovered
by his surprise that he was guilty, and, after a few words
more, told me plainly it was all true, that he was in the
robbery, and that he had the greatest part of the booty
in keeping, but what to do with it, or himself, he did not
know, and wanted me to tell him, which I was very unfit
to do, for I knew nothing of the world.
We talked long over the matter, and at last we decided
to enlist as soldiers. Thus we were ranked together,
with each of us a musket upon our shoulders, and, I con-
fess, that thing did not sit so ill upon me as I thought at
first it would have done; for, though I fared hard, and
lodged ill (for the last, especially, is the fate of poor
soldiers in that part of the world), yet to me, that had
been used to lodge on the ashes in the glass-house, this
was no great matter. I had a secret satisfaction at being
now under no necessity of stealing, and living in fear of
a prison, and of the lash of the hangman, and it was
an inexpressible ease to my mind that I was now in a
certain way of living which was honest, and which 1
could say was not unbecoming a gentleman. Here I
learned to read and write from an old corporal who had
been a school-teacher some twenty years before; and as
I was now by way of being honest I sought to repay
him by keeping his musket and hanger clean and bright.
Whatever was my satisfaction in that part, yet other
circumstances did not equally concur to make this life
suit me, for after we had been about six months in this
ENLISTS FOR A SOLDIER.
S3
figure we were informed that the recruits were all to
march for Newcastle, or for Hull, to join the regiment,
which was then in Flanders.
I should tell you that, before this, I was extremely
delighted with the life of a soldier, aud I took the
exercise so naturally that the sergeant that taught us to
handle our arms, seeing me so ready at it, asked me if I
had never carried arms before. I told him, no; at which
he swore, though jesting, They call you colonel, says he,
and I believe you will be a colonel, or you would never
handle your firms as you do, at once or twice showing.
This pleased me extremely, and encouraged me, and I
was mightily taken with the life of a soldier; but when
the captain came and told me the news, that we were to
be shipped off for Flanders at Newcastle-upon-Tyne, I
was surprised very much, and new thoughts began to
come in my mind. I remembered that I had almost 100L
in money in London, and if it should have been asked all
the soldiers in the regiment which of them would go to
Flanders a private centinel if they had 100L in their
pockets, I believe none of them would answer in the
affirmative, a lOOL being at that time sufficient to buy
colors in any new regiment, though not in that regiment,
which was on an old establishment. This whetted my
ambition, and I dreamt of nothing but being a gentleman
officer, as well as a gentleman soldier.
These two circumstances concurring, I began to be
very uneasy, and very unwillng in my thoughts to go
over a poor musqueteer into Flanders, lo be knocked on
the head at the tune of 3s. Qd. a week. While I was
daily musing on the circumstances of being sent away,
as above, and considering what to do, my captai'i comes
to me one evening. Hark ye, Jack, says he, I must
speak with yon; let us take a walk in the fields a little
COLONEL JACK.
out of from the houses. We were quartered at a place
called Park-End, near the town of Dunbar, about twenty
miles from Berwick-upon-Tweed, and about sixteen miles
from the river Tweed, the nearest way.
We walked together here, and talked seriously upon
the matter. The captain told me how his case stood,
and that he durst not march with the battalion into
Newcastle, for he had been at some rogueries there; that
if he did he should be taken out of the ranks and tried
for his life, and that I knew as well as he. I could go
privately to Newcastle, says he, and go through the town
well enough, but to go publicly is to run into the jaws of
destruction. Well, says I, that is very true; but what
will you do? Do! says he, do you think I am so bound
by honor, as a gentleman soldier, that I will be hanged
for them? No, no, says he, I am resolved to be gone,
and I would have you go with us. Said I, What do you
mean by us? Why, here is another honest fellow, says
he, that is resolved to desert, too, and he has been a long
while in the service, and says he knows how we shall be
used abroad, and he will not go to Flanders, says he,
not he.
Why, says I, you will be shot to death for deserters if
you are taken, and they will send out scouts for you in
the morning all over the country, so that you will cer-
tainly fall into their hands. As for that, says he, my
comrade is thoroughly acquainted with the way.
And when would you go away? says I.
This minute, says he; no time to be lost; 'tis a fine
moon-shining night.
I have none of my baggage, says I. Let me go back
and fetch my linen, and other things.
Your linen is not much, I suppose, says he, and wo
shall easily get more the old way.
Deserts from the service.
85
No, says I, no more of your old ways. It has been
owing to those old ways that we are now in such a strait.
Well, well, says he, the old ways are better than this
starving life of a gentleman, as we call it.
But, says I, we have no money in our pockets; how
shall we travel?
I have a little, says the captain; enough to help us on
to Newcastle, and if we can get none by the way we
will get some collier ship to take us in, and carry us to
London by sea.
I like that the best of all the measures you have laid
yet, said I. And so I consented to go, and went off
with him immediately. The cunning rogue, having lodged
his comrade a mile off under the hills, had dragged me,
by talking with him, by little and little that way, till
just when I consented he was in sight, and he said,
Look, there's my comrade! who I knew presently, hav-
ing seen him among the men.
Being thus gotten under the hills, and a mile off the
way, and the day just shut in, we kept on apace, resolv-
ing, if possible, to get out of the reach of our pursuers
before they should miss us, or know anything of our
being gone.
We contrived to come into Newcastle in the dusk of
the evening, and even then we durst not venture into the
public part of the town, but made down towards the
river, something below the town, where some glass-houses
stand. Here we knew not what to do with ourselves;
but, guided by our fate, we put a good face upon the
matter, and went into an ale-house, sat down, and called
for a pint of beer.
The house was kept by a woman only—that is to say,
we saw no other — and, as she appeared very frank, and
entertained us cheerfully, we at last told our condition,
COLONEL JACK.
and asked her if she could not help us to some kind
master of a collier, that would give us a passage to
London by sea. The subtle devil, who immediately
found us proper fish for her hook, gave us the kindest
words in the world, and told us she was heartily sorry
she had not seen us one day sooner; that there was a
collier-master, of her particular acquaintance, that went
away but with the morning tide; that the ship was fallen
down to Shields, but she believed was hardly over the
bar yet, and she would send to his house and see if he
was gone on board, for sometimes the masters do not go
away till a tide after the ship, and she was sure if he
was not gone she could prevail with him to take us all in.
But then she was afraid we must go on board im-
mediately, the same night.
We begged her to send to his house, for we knew not
what to do, and if she could oblige him to take us on
board we did not care what time of night it was, for, as
we had no money, we had no lodging, and we wanted
nothing but to be on board.
We looked upon this as a mighty favor, that she sent
to the master's house, and, to our greater joy, she brought
us word about an hour after that he was not gone, and
was at a tavern in the town, whither his boy had been to
fetch him, and that he had sent word he would call there
in the way home.
This was all in our favor, and we were extremely
pleased with it. About an hour alter, the landlady being
in the room with us, her maid brings us word the master
was below. So down she goes to him, telling us she
would go and tell him our case, and see to persuade him
to take us all on board. After some time she comes up
with him, and brings him into the room to us. Where
are these honest gentlemen soldiers, says he, that are in
ADVENTURES TH EREUPONi
such distress? We stood all up, and paid out- respects to
him. Well, gentlemen, and is all your money spent?
Indeed it is, said one of our company, and we shall be
infinitely obliged to you, sir, if you will give us a
passage. We will be very willing to do anything we can
in the ship, though we are not seamen.
Why, says he, were none of you ever at sea in your
lives?
No, says we, not one of us.
You will be able to do me no service then, says he, for
you will be all sick. Well, however, says he, for my
good landlady's sake here, I'll do it; but are you all
ready to go on board, for I go on board this very night?
Yes, sir, says we again, we are ready to go this minute.
No, no, says he, very kindly, we'll drink together.
Come, landlady, says he, make these honest gentlemen a
sneaker of punch.
We looked at one another, for we knew we had no
money, and he perceived it. Come, como, says he, don't
be concerned at your having no money. My landlady
here and I never part with dry lips. Come, good-wife,
says he, make the punch as I bid you.
We thanked him, and said, God bless you, noble
captain, a hundred times over, being overjoyed with such
good luck. While we were drinking the punch he calls
the landlady. Come, says he, I'll step home and take
my things, and bid them good-bye, and order the boat to
come at high water and take me up here. And pray,
good-wife, says he, get me something for supper. Sure
if I can give these honest men their passage I may give
them a bit of victuals, too; it may be they han't had
much for dinner.
With this away he went, and in a little while we heard
the jack agoing, and one of us, going down stairs for a
COLONEL JACK.
spy, brought us word there was a good leg of mutton at
the fire. In less than an hour our captain came again,
and came up to us, and blamed us that we had not drank
all the punch out. Come, says he, don't be bashful,
when that is out we can have another. When I am
obliging poor men I love to do it handsomely.
We drank on, and drank the punch out, and more was
brought up, and he pushed it about apace; and then
came up a leg of mutton, and I need not say that we eat
heartily, being told several times that we should pay
nothing. After supper was done he bids my landlady
ask if the boat was come. And she brought word no, it
was not high water by a good deal. No! says he, well,
then, give us some more punch. So more punch was
brought in, and, as was afterwards confessed, something
was put into it, or more brandy than ordinary, and by
that time the punch was drunk out we were all very
drunk, and, as for me, I was asleep.
About the time that was out we were told the boat
was come. So we tumbled out, almost over one another,
into the boat, and away we went, and our captain in the
boat. Most of us, if not all, fell asleep, till, after some
time, though how much, or how far going, we knew not,
the boat stopped, and we were waked, and told we were
at the ship's side, which was true; and with much help
and holding us, for fear we should fall overboard, we
were all gotten into the ship. All I remember of it was
this, that as soon as we were on board our captain, as
we called him, called out thus: Here, boatswain, take
care of these gentlemen, and give them good cabins, and
let them turn in and go to sleep, for they are very weary.
And so indeed we were, aud very drunk, too, being the
first time I had ever drank punch in my life.
KIDNAPPED AND CARRIED TO VIRGINIA. 89
CHAPTER VII.
WE ARE KIDNAPPED, AND CARRIED ON BOARD SHIP BY A
VIRGINIA CAPTAIN MAKE THE COAST OF VIRGINIA IN
32 DAYS CAPTAIN JACK MAKES HIS ESCAPE A PEEP
INTO FUTURITY I AM SOLD, ALONG WITH THE OTHERS,
TO A RICH PLANTER — MY MASTER HOLDS A LONG CON-
VERSATION WITH MB, AND IN CONSEQUENCE OF MY GOOD
BEHAVIOR PUTS ME IN A PLACE OF TRUST.
Well, care was taken of us according to order, and we
were put into very good cabins, where we were sure to go
immediately to sleep. In the meantime, the ship, which
was indeed just ready to go, and only on notice given had
come to an anchor for us at Shields, weighed, stood over
the bar, and went off to sea; and when we waked, and
began to peep abroad, which was not till near noon the
next day, we found ourselves a great way at sea; the
land in sight, indeed, but at a great distance, and all
going merrily on for London, as we understood it. We
were very well used, and well satisfied with our condition
for about three days, when we began to inquire whethf r
we were not almost come, and how much longer it would
be before we should come into the river. What river?
says one of the men. Why, the Thames, says my
Captain Jack. The Thames! says the seaman. What do
you mean by that? What, han't you had time enough to
be sober yet? So Captain Jack said no more, but looked
about him like a fool; when, a while after, some other of
us asked the like question, and the seaman, who knew
nothing of the cheat, began to smell a trick, and turning
to the other Englishman that came with us, Pray, says
he, where do you fancy you are going, that you ask so
often about it? Why, to London, says he, where should
COLONEL JACK.
we be going? We agreed with the captain to carry us to
London.
Not with the captain, says he, I dare say. Poor men,
you are all cheated; and I thought so when I saw you
come aboard with that kidnapping rogue Gilliman. Poor
men! adds he, you are all betrayed. Why, you are
going to Virginia, and the ship is bound to Virginia.
The Englishman falls a storming and raving like a
madman, and we gathering round him, let any man guess,
if they can, what was our surprise, and how we were
confounded, when we were told how it was. In short,
we drew our swords, and began to lay about us, and
made such a noise and hurry in the ship that at last the
seamen were obliged to call out for help. The captain
commanded us to be disarmed in the first place, which
was not, however, done without giving and receiving some
wounds, and afterwards he caused us to be brought to
him into the great cabin.
Here he talked very calmly to us: that he was realty
very sorry for what had befallen us; that he perceived
we had been trepanned, and that the fellow who had
brought us on board was a rogue, that was employed by
a sort of wicked merchants not unlike himself; that he
supposed he had been represented to us as captain of the
ship, and ask d us if it was not so. We told him yes,
and gave him a laige account of ourselves, and how we
came to the woman's house to inquire for some master of
a collier to get a passage to London, and that this man
engaged to carry us to Loudon in his own ship, and the
like, as is related above.
He told us he was very sorry for it, and he had no
hand in it, but it was out of his power to help us, and
let us know very plainly what our condition was:
namely, that we were put on board his ship as servants
A VERY QUICK PASSAGE.
to be delivered at Maryland to such a man, whom he
named to us, but that, however, if we would be quiet
and orderly in the ship, he would use us well in the
passage, and take care we should be used well when we
came there, and that he would do anything for us that
lay in his power; but if we were unruly and refractory
we could not expect but he must take such measures as
to oblige us to be satisfied, and that, in short, we must
be handcuffed, carried down between the decks, and kept
as prisoners, for it was his business to take care that no
disturbance must be in the ship.
We had a very good voyage, no storms all the way,
and a northerly wind almost twenty days together, so
that, in a word, we made the capes of Virginia in two-
and-thirty days from the day we steered west, as I have
said, which was in the latitude of 00 degrees 30 minutes,
being to the north of the isle of Great Britain; and this,
they said, was a very quick passage.
Nothing material happened to me during the voyage,
and, indeed, when I came there 1 was obliged to act in so
narrow a compass that nothing very material could pre-
sent itself.
When we came ashore, which was in a great river,
which they call Potomac, the captain asked us, but me
more particularly, whether I had anything to propose to
him now. Jack answered, Yes, I have something to
propose to you, captain; that is, that I have promised
you to cut your throat, and, depend upon it, I will be as
good as my word. Well, well, says the captain, if I
can't help it you shall. So he turned away to me. I
understood him very well what he meant, for I had told
him of my note for 94L, but I answered coldly, My bill
would be of no use to me now, for nobody would
advance anything upon it. Only this I would say to him,
COLONEL JACK.
that if he would carry me and Captain Jack back to
England, and to London again, I would pay him the 20L
off my bill for each of us. This he had no mind to.
For as to your brother, says he, I would not take him
into my ship for twice 201.; he is such a hardened, desper-
ate villain, says he, I should be obliged to carry him in
irons, as I brought him hither.
Thus we parted with our captain or kidnapper, call him
as you will. We were then delivered to the merchants
to whom we were consigned, who again disposed of us
as they thought fit, and in a few days we were separated.
As for my Captain Jack, to make short of the story,
that desperate rogue had the good luck to have a very
easy, good master, whose business and good humor he
abused very much, and, in particular, took an opportu-
nity to run away with a boat which his master entrusted
him and another with, to carry some provisions down the
river to another plantation which he had there. This
boat and provisions they ran away with, aud sailed north
to the bottom of the bay, as they call it, and into a river
called Susquehanna, aud there, quitting the boat, they
wandered through the woods, till they came to Penn-
sylvania, from whence they made shift to get pas-
sage to New England, and from thence home; where,
falling in among his old companions, and to the old
trade, he was at length taken and hanged, about a month
before I came to London, which was near twenty years
afterwards.
My part was harder at the beginning, though better at
the latter end. I was disposed of — that is to say, sold —
to a rich planter, whose name was Smith, aud with me the
other Englishman, who was my fellow-deserter, that Jack
brought to me when we went off from Dunbar.
We were now fellow-servants, and it was our lot to be
m MADE A GUARD AT THE PLANTATION. 93
carried up a small river or creek which falls into Potomac
River about eight miles from the great river. Here we
were brought to the plantation, and put in among about
fifty servants, as well negroes as others; and being
delivered to the head man, or director, or manager of the
plantation, he took care to let us know that we must
expect to work, and very hard, too, for it was for that
purpose his master bought servants, and for no other.
Accordingly, to work we went, and, indeed, we had
three hard things attending us: namely, we worked hard,
lodged hard, and fared hard. The first I had been an
utter stranger to, the last I could shift well enough with.
It happened while I was here that a ship arrived from
London with several servants, and among the rest was
seventeen transported felons, some burnt in the hand,
others not, eight of whom my master bought for the time
specified in the warrant for their transportation respect-
ively, some for a longer, some a shorter, term of years.
Our master was a great man in the country, and a
justice of peace, though he seldom came down to the
plantation where I was; yet, as the new servants were
brought on shore, and delivered at our plantation, his
worship cams thither, in a kind of state, to see and
receive them. When they wc re brought before him I
was called, among other servants, as a kind of guard, to
take them into custody after he had seen them, and carry
them to the work. They were brought by a guard of
seamen from the ship, and the second mate of the ship
came with them, and delivered them to our master, with
the warrant for their transportation, as above.
When his worship had read over the warrants he
called them over by their names, one by one, and, having
let them know, by his reading the warrants over again to
each man respectively, that he knew for what offences
COLONEL JACK.
they were transported, he talked to every one separately
very gravely; let them know how much favor they had
received in being saved from the gallows, which the law
had appointed for their crimes; that they were not
sentenced to be transported, but to be hanged, and that
transportation was granted them upon their own request
and humble petition.
Among the rest of his new servants he came to a
young fellow not above seventeen or eighteen years of
age, and his warrant mentions that he was, though a
young man, yet an old offender; that he had been several
times condemned, but had been respited or pardoned, but
still he continued an incorrigible pick-pocket; that the
crime for which he was now transported was for picking
a merchant's pocket-book, or letter-case, out of his
pocket, in which was bills of exchange for a very great
sum of money; that he had afterwards received the
money upon some of the bills, but that, going to a gold-
smith in Lombard Street with another bill, and having
demanded the money, he was stopped, notice having
been given of the loss of them; that he was condemned
to die for the felony, and, being so well known for an old
offender, had certainly died but the merchant, upon his
earnest application, had obtained that he should be trans-
ported, on condition that he restored all the rest of his
bills, which he had done accordingly.
Our master talked a long time to this young fellow;
mentioned, with some surprise, that he, so young, should
have followed such a wicked trade so long as to obtain
the name of an old offender at so young an age, and that
he should be styled incorrigible, which is to signify that,
notwithstanding his being whipt two or three times, and
several times punished by imprisonment, and once burnt
in the hand, yet nothing would do him any good, but that
A PICK-POCKET LIKE MYSELF.
9">
he was still the same. He talked mighty religiously to
this boy, and told him God had not only spared him
from the gallows, but had now mercifully delivered him
from the opportunity of committing the same sin again,
and put it into his power to live an honest life, which
perhaps he knew not how to do before; and though some
part of his life now might be laborious, yet he ought to
look on it to be no more than being put out apprentice to
an honest trade, in which, when he came out of his time,
he might be able to set up for himself and live honestly.
Then he told him that while he was a servant he
would have no opportunity to be dishonest, so when he
came to be for himself he would have no temptation to
it. And so, after a great many other kind things said to
him and the rest, they were dismissed.
I was exceedingly moved at this discourse of our
master's, as anybody would judge I must be, when it was
directed to such a young rogue, born a thief, and bred up
a pick-pocket, like myself; for I thought all my master
said was spoken to me, and sometimes it came into my
head that sure my master was some extraordinary man,
and he knew all things that ever I had done in my life.
But I was surprised to the last degree when my
master, dismissing all the rest of us servants, pointed at
me, and, speaking to his head clerk, Here, says he, bring
that young fellow hither to me.
I had been near a year in the work, and I had plied it
so well that the clerk, or head man, either flattered mn,
or did really believe that I behaved very well; but I was
terribly frighted to hear myself called out aloud, just
as they used to call for such as had done some mis-
demeanor, and were to be lashed or otherwise corrected.
I came in like a malefactor, indeed, and thought I
looked like one just taken in the fact, and carried before
COLONEL JACK.
the justice; and indeed when I came in, for I was carried
into an inner room, or parlor, in the house to him (his
discourse to the rest was in a large hall, where he sat in a
seat like a lord judge upon the bench, or a petty king
upon his throne)—when I came in, I say, he ordered his
man to withdraw, and I standing half-naked, and bare-
headed, with my haugh, or hoe, in my hand (the posture
and figure I was in at my work), near the door, he bade
me lay down my hoe and come nearer. Then he began
to look a little less stern and terrible than I fancied him
to look before, or, perhaps, both his countenance then
and before might be to my imagination differing from
what thi y really were; for we do not always judge those
things by the real temper of the person, but by the
measure of our apprehensions.
Hark ye, young man, how old are you? says my
master, and so our dialogue began.
Jack. Indeed, sir, I do not know.
Mast. What is your name?
Jack. They call me Colonel here, but my name is
Jack, a'nt please your worship.
Mast. But prithee, what is thy name?
Jack. Jack.
Mast. What, is thy Christian name, then, Colonel,
and thy surname Jack?
Jack. Truly, sir, to tell your honor the truth, I know
little or nothing of myself, nor what my true name is,
but thus I have been called ever since I remember.
Which is my Christian name, or which my surname, or
whether I was ever christened or not, I cannot tell.
Mast. Well, however, that's honestly answered. Pray
how came you hither, and on what account are you made
a servant here?
Jack I wish your honor could have patience with me
TELLS THE PLANTER HIS HISTORT.
97
to hear the whole story. It is the hardest and most unjust
thing that ever came before you.
Mast. Say you so? Tell it me at large, then. I'll
hear it, I promise that, if it be an hour long.
This encouraged me, and I began at being a soldier,
and being persuaded to desert at Dunbar, and gave him
all the particulars, as they are related above, to the time
of my coming on shore, and the captain talking to me
about my bill after I arrived here. He held up his hands
several times as I went on, expressing his abhorrence of
the usage I had met at Newcastle, and inquired the name
of the master of the ship, for, said he, that captain, for
all his smooth words, must be a rogue. So I told him
his name, and the name of the ship, and he took it down
in his book, and then we went on.
Mast. But pray answer me, honestly too, to another
question. What was it made you so much concerned at
my talking to the boy there, the pick-pocket?
Jack. Au't please your honor, it moved me to hear
you talk so kindly to a poor slave.
Mast. And was that all? Speak truly now.
Jack. No, indeed, but a secret wish came into my
thoughts, that you, that were so good to such a creature
as that, could but one way or other know my case, and
that if you did you would certainly pity me, and do
something for me.
Mast. Well, but was there nothing in his case that hit
your own, that made you so affected with it? For I saw
tears come from your eyes, and it was that made me call
to speak to you.
Jack. Indeed, sir, I have been a wicked, idle boy, and
was left desolate in the world; but that boy is a thief, and
condemned to be hanged. I never was before a court of
justice in my life.
COLONEL JACK.
Mast. Well, I won't examine you too far. If you wore
never before a court of justice, and are not a criminal
transported, I have nothing further to inquire of you.
You have been ill used, that's certain, and was it that
that affected you?
Jack. Yes, indeed, please your honor (we all called
him his honor, or his worship).
Mast. Well, now I do know your case, what can I do
for you? You speak of a bill of 941., of which you
would have given the captain 401. for your liberty. Have
you that bill in your keeping still?
Jack. Yes, sir, here it is. I pulled it out of the
waistband of my drawers, where I always found means
to preserve it, wrapped up in a piece of paper, and
pinned to the waistband, and yet almost worn out, too,
with often pinning and removing. So I gave it to him to
read, and he read it.
Mast. And is this gentleman in being that gave you
the bill?
Jack. Yes, sir, he was alive and in good health when
I came from London, which you may see by the date of
the bill, for I came away the next day.
Mast. I do not wonder that the captain of the ship
was willing to get this bill of you when you came on
shore here.
Jack. I would have given it into his possession if he
would have carried me and my brother back again to
England, and have taken what he asked for us out of it.
Mast. Ay, but he knew better than that, too; he
knew if he had any friends there they would call him to
an account for what he had done; but I wonder he did
not take it from you while you were at sea, either by
fraud or by force.
Jack. He did not attempt that, indeed-
99
Mast. Well, young man, I have a mind to try if I can
do you any service in this case. On my word, if the
money can be paid, and you can get it safe over, I might
put you in a way how to be a better man than your
master, if you will be honest and diligent.
Jack. As I behave myself in your service, sir, you
will, I hope, judge of the rest.
Mast. But perhaps you hanker after returning to
England.
Jack. No, indeed, sir. If I can but get my bread
honestly here I have no mind to go to England, for I
know not how to get my bread there; if I had, I had not
'listed for a soldier.
Mast. Well, but I must ask you some questions about
that part hereafter, for 'tis indeed something strange
that you should 'list for a soldier when you had 94L in
your pocket.
Jack. I shall give your worship as particular account
of that as I have of the other part of my life, if you
please, but 'tis very long.
Mast. Well, we will have that another time. But to
the case in hand: are you willing I should send to any-
body at London to talk with that gentleman that gave
you the bill; not to take the money of him, but to ask
him only whether he has so much money of yours in his
hands, and whether he will part with it when you shall
give order, and send the bill, or a duplicate of it; that
is, says he, the copy. And it was well he did say so, for
I did not understand the word duplicate at all.
Jack. Yes, sir, I will give you the bill itself, if you
please. I can trust it with you, though I could not with
him.
Mast. No, no, young man, I won't take it from you.
Jack. I wish your worship would please to keep it for
COLONEL JACK.
me, for if I should lose it then I am quite undone.
Mast. I will keep it for you, Jack, if you will, but
then you shall have a note under my hand, signifying
that I have it, and will return it you upon demand, which
will be as safe to you as the bill. I won't take it else.
So I gave my master the bill, and he gave me his note
for it; and he was a faithful steward for me, as you will
hear in its place. After this conference I was dismissed
and went to my work, but about two hours after, the
steward, or the overseer of the plantation, came riding
by, and, coming up to me as I was at work, pulled a
bottle out of his pocket, and, calling me to him, gave me
a dram. When, in good manners, I had taken but a little
sup, he held it out to me again, and bade me take
another, and spoke wondrous civilly to me, quite other-
wise than he used to do.
This encouraged me, and heartened me very much, but
yet I had no particular view of anything, or which way I
should have any relief.
A day or two after, when we were all going out to our
work in the morning, the overseer called me to him
again, and gave me a dram and a good piece of bread,
and bade me come off from my work about one o'clock,
and come to him to the house, for he must speak with
me.
When I came to him I came, to be sure, in the ordinary
habit of a poor, half-naked slave. Come hilher, young
man, says he, and give me your hoe. When I gave it
him, Well, says he, you are to work no more in this
plantation.
I looked surprised, and as if I was frighted. What
have I done, sir, said I, and whither am I to be sent
away?
Nay, nay, says he, and looked very pleasantly, do not
MADE OVERSEER IN A PLANTATION.
101
be frighted. 'Tis for your good, 'tis not to hurt you. I
am ordered to make an overseer of you, and you shall be
'a slave no longer.
Alas! says I to him, I an overseer! I am in no con-
dition for it. I have no clothes to put on, no linen, noth-
ing to help myself.
Well, well, says he, you may be better used than you
are aware of. Come hither with me. So he led me into a
vast, great warehouse, or, rather, set of warehouses, one
within another, and calling the warehouse-keeper, Here,
says he, you must clothe this man, and give him everything
necessary, upon the foot of number five, and give the bill
to me. Our master has ordered me to allow it in the
account of the west plantation. That was, it seems, the
plantation where I was to go.
CHAPTER VIII.
A STUMBLE AT THE THRESHOLD OF MY NEW OFFICE — I
STUDY TO RENDER THE NEGROES OBEDIENT WITHOUT
PUNISHMENT, AND SUCCEED OUR MASTER VISITS THE
PLANTATION — CONVERSATION WITH HIM I GAIN HIS
GOOD GRACES MORE AND MORE FIDELITY OF A NEGRO.
Accordingly, the warehouse-keeper carried me into an
inner warehouse, where were several suits of clothes of
the sort his orders mentioned, which were plain, but good
sorts of clothes, ready-made, being of a good broadcloth,
about lis. a yard in England, and with this he gave me
three good shirts, two pair of shoes, stockings and
gloves, a hat, six neckcloths, and, in short, everything I
could want; and when he had looked everything out, and
fitted them, he lets me into a little room by itself. Here.
COLONEL JACK.
sa\ s he, go in there a slave, and come out a gentleman;
and with that carried everything into the room, and,
shutting the door, bid me put them on, which I did most
willingly. And now you may believe that I began to
hope for something better than ordinary.
In a little while after this came the overseer, and gave
me joy of my new clothes, and told me I must go with
him. Fo I was carried to another plantation, larger than
that where I worked before, and where there were two
overseers, or clerks, one within doors, and one without.
This last was removed to another plantation, and I was
placed there in his room — that is to say, as the clerk
without doors — and my business was to look after the
servants and negroes, and take care that they did their
business, provide their food, and, in short, both govern
and direct them.
I was elevated to the highest degree in my thoughts at
this advancement, and it is impossible for me to express
the joy of my mind upon this occasion; but there came a
difficulty upon me, that shocked me so violently, and
went so against my very nature, that I really had almost
forfeited my place about it, and, in all appearance, the
favor of our master, who had been so generous to me,
and this was, that when I entered upon my office I had a
horse given me and a long horsewhip, like what we call
in England a hunting-whip. The horse was to ride up
and down all over the plantation, to see the servants and
negroes did their work, and, the plantation being so large,
it could not be done on foot, at least so often and so
effectually as was required; and the horsewhip was given
me to correct and lash the slaves and servants when they
proved negligent or quarrelsome, or, in short, were guilty
of any offence. This part turned the very blood within
my veins, and I could not think of it with any temper,
ENTERS ON HIS NEW DUTIES
103
that I, who was but yesterday a servant or slave like
them, and under the authority of the same lash, should
lift up my hand to the cruel work which was my terror but
the day before. This, I say, I could not do; insomuch
that the negroes perceived it, and I had soon so much
contempt upon my authority that we were all in disorder.
The ingratitude of their return for the compassion I
showed them provoked me, I confess, and a little hard-
ened my heart; and I began with the negroes, two of
whom I was obliged to correct, and I thought I did it
most cruelly, but after I had lashed them till every blow
I struck them hurt myself, and I was ready to faint at
the work, the rogues laughed at me, and one of them had
the impudence to say, behind my back, that, if he had
the whipping of me, he would show me better how to
whip a negro.
Well, however, I had no power to do it in such a bar-
barous manner as I found it was necessary to have it
done, and the defect began to be a detriment to our
master's business. And now I began, indeed, to see that
the cruelty so much talked of, used in Virginia and Bar-
badoes, and other colonies, in whipping the negro slaves,
was not so much owing to the tyranny and passion and
cruelty of the English as had been reported —the English
not being accounted to be of a cruel disposition, and
really are not so — but that it is owing to the brutality
and obstinate temper of the negroes, who cannot be
managed by kindness and courtesy, but must be ruled
with a rod of iron — beaten with scorpions, as the Script-
ure calls it — and must be used as they do use them, or
they would rise and murder all their masters; which, their
numbers considered, would not be hard for them to do, if
they had arms and ammunition suitable to the rage and
cruelty of their nature.
COLONEL JACK.
But I began to see at the same time that this brutal
temper of the negroes was not rightly managed, that
they did not take the best course with them to make them
sensible either of mercy or punishment; and it was
evident to me that even the worst of those tempers
might be brought to a compliance without the lash, or, at
least, without so much of it as they generally inflicted.
Our master was really a man of humanity himself,
and was sometimes so full of tenderness that he would
forbid the severities of his overseers and stewards, but
he saw the necessity of it, and was obliged at last to
leave it to the discretion of his upper servants, yet he
would often bid them be merciful, and bid them consider
the difference of the constitution of the bodies of the
negroes, some being less able to bear the tortures of
their punishment than others, and some of them less
obstinate, too, than others.
However, somebody was so officious as to inform him
against me upon this occasion, and let him know that I
neglected his affairs, and that the servants were under no
government, by which means his plantation was not
duly managed, and that all things were in disorder.
This was a heavy charge for a young overseer, and his
honor came like a judge, with all his attendants, to look
into things and hear the cause. However, he was so
just to me as that, before he censured me, he resolved to
hear me fully, and that not only publicly but in private,
too; and the last part of this was my particular good
fortune, for, as he had formerly allowed me to speak to
him with freedom, so I had the like freedom now, and
had full liberty to explain and defend myself.
I knew nothing of the complaint against me till I had
it from his own mouth, nor anything of his coming till I
saw him in the very plantation, viewing his work, and
EXPRESSES GRATITUDE TO HIS EMPLOYER. 10;->
viewing the several pieces of ground that were ordered
to be new planted; and after he had rode all round, and
seen things in the condition which they were to be seen
in, how everything was in its due order, and the ser-
vants and negroes were all at work, and everything
appearing to his mind, he went into the house.
As I saw him come up the walks I ran towards him,
and made my homage, and gave him my humble thanks
for the goodness he had showed me in taking me from
the miserable condition I was in before, and employing
and entrusting nie in his business; and he looked pleasant
enough, though he did not say much at first, and I
attended him through the whole plantation, gave him an
account of everything as he went along, answered all his
objections and inquiries everywhere in such a manner as,
it seems, he did not expect, and, as he acknowledged
afterwards, everything was very much to his satisfaction.
There was an overseer, as I observed, belonging to the
same plantation, who was, though not over me, yet in a
work superior to mine, for his business was to see the
tobacco packed up, and deliver it either on board the
sloops or otherwise, as our master ordered, and to
receive English goods from the grand warehouse, which
was at the other plantation, because that was nearest
the water-side, and, in short, to keep the accounts.
This overseer, an honest and upright man, made no
complaint to him of his business being neglected, as
above, or of anything like it, though he inquired of him
about it, and that very strictly, too.
I should have said that, as he rid over the plantation,
he came in his round to the place where the servants
were usually corrected when they had done any fault,
and there stood two negroes, with their hands tied behind
them, as it were under sentence; and when he came near
COLONEL JACK.
them they fell on their knees, and made pitiful signs to
him for mercy. Alas! alas! says he, turning to me,
why did you bring me this way? I do not love such
sights. What must I do now? I must pardon them.
Prithee, what have they done? I told him the particular
offences which they were brought to the place for. One
had stole a bottle of rum, and had made himself drunk
with it, and, when he was drunk, had done a great many
mad things, and had attempted to knock one of the white
servants' brains out with a handspike, but that the
white man had avoided the blow, and, striking up the
negro's heels, had seized him, and brought him prisoner
thither, where he had lain all night, and that I had told
him he was to be whipped that day, and the next three
days, twice every d:iy.
And could you be so cruel? says his honor. Why, you
would kill the poor wretch, and so, beside the blood
which you would have to answer for, you would lose me
a lusty man-negro, which cost me at least 30L or 401.,
and bring a reproach upon my whole plantation. Nay,
and more than that, some of them in revenge would
murder me, if ever it was in their power.
Sir, says I, if those fellows are not kept under by
violence I believe you are satisfied nothing is to be done
with them; and it is reported in your works that I have
been rather their jest than their terror, for want of using
them as they deserve, and I was resolved, how much
soever it is against my own disposition, that your service
should not suffer for my unseasonable forbearance, and
therefore, if I had scourged him to death — Hold, says
he, no, no, by no means any such severity in my bounds.
Remember, young man, you were once a servant; deal
as you would acknowledge it would be just to deal with
you in his case, and mingle always some mercy. I desire
ACCUSED OF CRUELTY TO THE NEGROES. 107
it, and let the consequence of being too gentle be placed
to my account.
This was as much as I could desire, and the more,
because what passed was in public, and several, both
negroes and white servants, as well as the particular
persons who had accused me, heard it all, though I did
not know it. A cruel dog of an overseer, says one of
the white servants behind. He would have whipped poor
Bullet-head — so they called the negro that was to be
punished to death — if his honor had not happened to
come to-day.
However, I urged the notorious crime this fellow was
guilty of, and the danger there was in such forbearance,
from the refractory and incorrigible temper of the negroes,
and pressed a little the necessity of making examples;
but he said, Well, well, do it the next time, but not now.
So I said no more.
The other fellow's crime was trifling compared with
this, and the master went forward, talking of it to me,
and I following him, till we came to the house, when,
after he had been sat down awhile, he called me to him,
and, not suffering my accusers to come near till he had
heard my defence, he began with me thus: —
Mast. Hark ye, young man, I must have some dis-
course with you. Your conduct is complained of since I
set you over this plantation. 1 thought your sense of the
obligation I had laid on you would have secured your
diligence and faithfulness to me.
Jack. I am very sorry any complaint should be made
of me, because the obligation I am under to your honor,
and which I freely confess, does bind me to your interest
in the strongest manner imaginable, and, however I may
have mistaken my business, I am sure I have not willingly
neglected it.
COLONEL JACK.
Mast. Well, I shall not condemn you without hearing
you, and therefore I called you in now to tell you of it.
Jack. I humbly thank your honor. I have but one
petition more, and that is that I may know my accusa-
tion, and, if you please, my accusers.
Mast. The first you shall, and that is the reason of
my talking to you in private, and if there is any need of
a farther hearing you shall know your accusers, too
What you are charged with is just contrary to what
appeared to me just now, and therefore you and I must
come to a new understanding about it, for I thought 1
was too cunning for you, and now I think you have been
too cunning for me.
Jack. I iiope your honor will not be offended that I
do not fully understand you.
Mast. I believe you do not. Come, tell me honestly,
did you really intend to whip the poor negro twice a day
for four days together? — that is to say, to whip him to
death, for that would have been the English of it, and
the end of it.
Jack. If I may be permitted to guess, sir, I believe I
know the charge that is brought against me, and that
your honor has been told lhat I have been too gentle with
the negroes, as well as other servants, and that when
they deserved to be used with the accustomed severity of
the country I have not given them half enough; and
that by this means they are careless of your business, and
that your plantation is not well looked after, and the like.
Mast. Well, you guess right. Go on.
Jack. The first part of the charge I confess, but the
last I deny, and appeal to your honor's strictest exam-
ination into every part of it.
Mast If the last part could be true I would be glad
(he first were, for it would be an infinite satisfaction to
GAINS A POINT.
109
me that, my business not being neglected, nor our safety
endangered, those poor wretches could be used with more •
humanity, for cruelty is the aversion of my nature, and
it is the only uncomfortable thing that attends me in all
my prosperity.
Jack. I freely acknowledge, sir, that at first it was
impossible for me to bring myself to that terrible work.
How could I, that was but just come out of the terror
of it myself, and had but the day before been a poor,
naked, miserable servant myself, and might be to-morrow
reduced to the same condition agam— how could I use
this (showing a horsewhip) terrible weapon on the naked
flesh of my fellow-servants, as well as fellow-creatures?
At least, sir, when my duty made it absolutely necessary,
I could not do it without the utmost horror. I beseech
you, pardon me if I have such a tenderness in my
nature that, though I might be fit to be your servant, I
am incapable of being an executioner, having been an
offender myself.
Mast. Well, but how, then, can my business be doue?
And how will this terrible obstinacy of the negroes, who,
they tell me, can be no otherwise governed, be kept from
neglect of their work, or even insolence and rebellion?
Jack This brings me, sir, to the latter part of my
defence. And here I hope your honor will be pleased to
call my accusers, or that you will give yourself the
trouble of taking the exac-.est view of your plantation,
and see, or let them show you, if anything is neglected, if
your business has suffered in anything, or if your negroes
or other servants are under less government thau they
were before. And if, on the contrary, I have found out
that happy secret, to have good order kept, the busi-
ness of the plantation doue, and that with diligence and
despatch, and that the negroes are kept in awe, the natural
COLONEL JACK.
temper of them subjected, and the safety and peace of
• your family secured, as well by gentle means as by rough,
by moderate correction as by torture and barbarity, by a
due awe of just discipline as by the horror of unsuffera-
ble torments, I hope your honor will not lay that sin to
my charge.
Mast. No, indeed, you would be the most acceptable
manager that ever I employed. But how, then, does this
consist with the cruel sentence you had passed on the
poor fellow that is in your condemned hole yonder, who
was to be whipped eight times in four days?
Jack. Very well, sir. First, sir, he remains under the
terrible apprehensions of a punishment so severe as no
negro ever had before. This fellow, with your leave, I
intended to release to-morrow without any whipping at
all, after talking to him in my way about his offence, and
raising in his mind a sense of the value of pardon; and
if this makes him a better servant than the severest
whipping will do, then, I presume, you would allow I
have gained a point.
Mast. Ay, but what if it should not be so? for these
fellows have no sense of gratitude.
Jack. That is, sir, because they are never pardoned.
If they offend they never know what mercy is, and what,
then, have they to be grateful for?
Mast. Thou art in the right, indeed. Where there is
no mercy showed, there is no obligation laid upon them.
Jack. Besides, sir, if they have at any time been let
go, which is very seldom, they are not told what the
case is. They take no pains with them to imprint princi-
ples of gratitude on their minds, to tell them what
kindness is shown them, and what they are indebted for
it, and what they might gain in the end by it.
Mast. But do you think such usage would do? Would
NEGROES OBEDIENT WITHOUT PUNISHMENT. Ill
it make any impression? You persuade yourself it would,
but you see 'tis against the received notion of the whole
country.
Jack. There are, it may be, public and national mis-
takes and errors in conduct, and this is one.
Mast. Have you tried it? You cannot say it is a
mistake till you have tried and proved it to be so.
Jack. Your whole plantation is a proof of it. This
very fellow had never acted as he did if he had not
gotten rum in his head, and been out of the government
of himself. So that, indeed, all the offence I ought to
have punished him for had been that of stealing a bottle
of rum, and drinking it all up, in which case, like Noah,
he did not know the strength of it, and when he had it in
his head, he was a madman, he was as one raging and
distracted. So that, for all the rest, he deserved pity
rather than punishment.
Mast. Thou art right, certainly right, and thou wilt
be a rare fellow if thou canst bring these notions into
practice. I wish you had tried it upon any one particular
negro, that I might see an example. I would give 5001.
if it could be brought to bear.
Jack. I desire nothing, sir, but your favor, and the
advantage of obliging you. I will show you an example
of it among your own negroes, and all the plantation will
acknowledge it.
Mast. You make my very heart glad within me, Jack.
If you can bring this to pass, I here give you my word,
I'll not only give you your own freedom, but make a man
of you for this world as long as you live.
Upon this I bowed to him very respectfully, and told
him the following story: There is a negro, sir, in your
plantation who has been your servant several years
before I came. He did a fault that was of no great con-
COLONEL JACK.
sequence in itself, but perhaps would have been worse
if they had, indeed, gone farther, and I had him brought
into the usual place, and tied him by the thumbs to: cor-
rection, and He was told that he should be whipped and
pickled in a dreadful manner. After I had made proper
impressions on his mind of the terror of his punishment,
and found lhat he was sufficiently humbled by it, I went
into the hou-e. a d caused him to be brought out, just as
they do when they go to correct the negroes on such occa-
sions. When he was stripped and tied up he had two
lashes given him, that were, indeed, very cruel ones, and
1 called to them to hold. Hold! said I, to the two men
that had just began to lay on upon the poor fellow.
Hold! said I, let me talk with him.
So he was taken down. Then I began, and repre-
sented to him how kind you, that were his great master
(so the negroes call the owner of the plantation, or, at
least, so they called him, because he was a great man in
the country, having three or four large plantations), had
been to him ; that you had never done him any harm, that
you had used him gently, and he had never been brought
to this punishment in so many years, though he had done
some faults before; that this was a notorious offence, for
he had stolen some nun, and made himself and two other
negroes drunk-mad (to be drunk, in a negro, is to be mad,
for when they get rum they are worse than raving, and lit
to do any manner of mischief), and had abused two
women negroes, who had husbands in our master's ser-
vice, but in another plantation, and played several
pranks, and for this 1 had appointed him this punishment.
He shook his head, and made signs that he was mucliee
soiree, as he called it. And what will you say or do, said
1, if I should prevail with the great master to pardon
you? I have a mind to go and see if I can beg for you.
METHOD OF TREATMENT TO NEUKOES. 113
He told me he would lie down, let me kill him. Me will,
says he, run, go, fetch, bring for you as long as me live.
This was the opportunity I had a mind to have, to try
whether, as negroes have all the other faculties of reason-
able creatures, they had not also some sense of kindness,
some principles of natural generosity, which, in short, is
the foundation of gratitude, for gratitude is the product
of generous principles.
You please me with the beginning of this story, says
he. I hope you have carried it on.
Yes, sir, says I, it has been carried on farther perhaps
than you imagine, or will think has been possible in such
a case.
But I was not so arrogant as to assume the merit to
myself. No, no, said I, I do not ask you to go or run
for me. You must do all that for our great master, for it
will be from him entirely that you will be pardoned at all,
for your offence is against him. And what will you say,
will you be grateful to him, and run, go, fetch, bring, for
him as long as you live, as you have said you would
for me?
Yes, indeed, says he, and muchee do, muchee do, for
you, too (he would not leave me out). You ask him
for me.
Well, I put off all his promised gratitude to me from
myself, as was my duty, and placed it to your account;
told him I knew you was muchee good, muchee pitiful,
and 1 would persuade you if I could, and so told him I
would go to you, and he should be whipped no more till I
came again; but, Hark ye, Mouchat, says I (that was
the negro's name), they tell me, when I came hither, that
there is no showing kindness to any of you negroes; that
when we spare you from whipping you laugh at us, and
are the worse.
COLONEL JACK.
He looked very serious at me, and said, O, that no so;
the masters say so, but no be so, no be so, indeed,
indeed. And so we parleyed.
Jack. Why do they say so, then? To be sure, they
have tried you all.
Negro. No, no, they no try; they say so, but no try.
Jack. I hear them all say so.
Negro. Me tell you the true; they have no mercie.
they beat us cruel, all cruel, they never have show
mercie. How can they tell we be no better?
Jack. What, do they never spare?
Negro. Master, me speakee the true. They never give
mercie, they always whippee, lashee, knockee down, all
cruel. Negro be muchee better man, do muchee better
work, but they tell us no mercie.
Jack. But what, do they never show any mercy?
Negro. No, never, no, never; all whippee, all whippee,
cruel, worse than they whippee de horse, whippee de dog.
Jack. But would they be better if they did?
Negro. Yes, yes, negro be muchee better if they be
mercie. When they be whippee, whippee, negro muchee
cry, muchee hate, would kill if they had de gun; but
when they makee de mercie, then negro tell de great
tankee, and love to work, and do muchee work; and
because he good master to them.
Jack. They say no, you would laugh at them and
mock when they show mercy.
Negro. How they say when they show mercie! They
never show mercie. Me never see them show one mercie
since me live.
Now, sir, said I, if this be so, really they go, I dare
say, contrary to your inclination, for I see you are but
too full of pity for the miserable — I saw it in my own
case — and upon a presumption that you had rather have
115
your work done from a principle of love than fear, with-
out making your servants bleed for every trifle, if it were
possible — I say, up'>n this presumption I dealt with this
Mouchat, as you shall hear.
Mast. I have never met with anything of this kind
since I have been a planter, which is now about forty
years. I am delighted with the story. Go on, I expect
a pleasant conclusion.
Jack. The conclusion, sir, will be, I believe, as much
to your satisfaction as the beginning, for it every way
answered my expectation, and will yours also, and show
you how you might be faithfully served if you pleased, for
'tis certain you are not so served now.
Mast. No, indeed. They serve me but just as they do
the devil, for fear I should hurt them; but 'tis con-
trary to an ingenuous spirit to delight in such service. I
abhor it, if I could but know how to get any other.
Jack. It is easy, sir, to show you that you may be
served upon better principles, and consequently be better
served, and more to your satisfaction, and I dare under-
take to convince you of it.
Mast. "Well, go on with the story.
Jack. After I had talked thus to him I said, Well,
Mouchat, I shall s e how you will be afterwards, if I can
get our great master to be merciful to you at this time.
Negro. Yes, you shall see, you muchee see, muchee
see.
Upon this I called for my horse and went from him,
and made as if I rode away to you, who, they told me,
was in the next plantation ; and, having stayed four or five
hours, I came back and talked to him again, told him
that I had waited on you, and that you had heard of his
offence, was highly provoked, and had resolved to cause
him to be severely punished for an example to all the
COLONEL JACK.
negroes in the plantation, but that 1 had told you how
penitent he was, and how good he would be if you would
pardon him, and had at last prevailed on you; that
you had told me what all people said of the negroes;
how that to show them mercy was to make them think
you were never in earnest with them, and that you did
but trille and play with them. However, that I had told
you what he had said of himself, and that it was not
true of the negroes, and that the white men said it,
but that they could not know because they did never
show any mercy, and therefore had never tried; that I
had persuaded you to show mercy, to try whether kind-
ness would prevail as much as cruelty. And now,
Mouchat, said I, you will be let go, pray let our great
master see that I have said true. So I ordered him to be
untied, gave him a dram of rum out of my pocket bottle,
and ordered them to give him some victuals.
When the fellow was let loose he came to me and
kneeled down to me, and took hold of my legs and of
my feet, and laid his head upon the ground, and sobbed
and cried like a child that had been corrected, but could
not speak for his life; and thus he continued a long
time. I would have taken him up, but he would not rise;
but I cried as fast as he, for I could not bear to see a
poor wretch lie on the grouud to me, that was but a
servant the other day like himself. At last, but not till
a quarter of an hour, I made him get up, and then he
spoke. Me muchee know good, great master, muchee
good you master. No negro unthankful, me die for
them, do me so muchee kind.
1 dismissed him then, and bid him go to his wife (for
he was married), and not work that afternoon, but, as
he was going away, I called him again, and talked thus
to him.
Negro gratitude.
117
Now, Mouchat, says I, you see the white meu crtn
show mercy. Now you must tell all the negroes what has
been reported of them: that they regard nothing but the
whip; that if they are used gently they are the worse,
not the better; and that this is the reason why the white
men show them no mercy; and convince them that they
would be much better treated, and used kindlier, if they
would show themselves as grateful for kind usage, as
humble after torment, and see if you can work on them
Me go, me go, says he, me muchee talk to them. They
be muchee glad as me be, and do great work to be used
kind by de great master.
Mast. Well, but now what testimony have you of this
gratitude you speak of? Have you seen any alteration
among them?
Jack. I come next to that part, sir. About a month
after this I caused a report to be spread abroad in the
plantation that I had offended you, the great master,
and that I was turned out of the plantation, and was to
be hanged. Your honor knows that some time ago you
sent me upon your particular business into Potuxent
River, where I was absent twelve days; then I took the
opportunity to have this report spread about among the
negroes, to see how it would work.
Mast. What, to see how Mouchat would take it?
Jack. Yes, sir, and it made a discovery indeed. The
poor fellow did not believe it presently, but, finding I was
still absent, he went to the head clerk, and, standing at
his door, said nothing, but looked like a fool of ten years
old. After some time the upper overseer came out, and,
seeing him stand there, at first said nothing, supposing
he had been sent of some errand, but observing him to
stand stock still, and that he was in the same posture and
place during the time that he had passed and repassed
COLONEL JACK.
two or three times, he stops short the last time of his
coming by. What do you want, says he to him, that you
idle here so long?
Me speakee, me tell something, says he.
Then the overseer thought some discovery was at hand,
and began to listen to him. What would you tell me?
says he.
Me tell! Pray, says he, where be de other master?
He meant he would ask where he was. What other
master do you mean? says the clerk. What, do you
want to speak with the great master? He can't be spoke
by you. Pray, what is your business, cannot you tell it
to me?
No, no, me no speakee the great master, the other
master, says Mouchat.
What, the colonel? says the clerk.
Yes, yes, the colonel, says he.
Why, don't you know that he is to be hanged to-mor-
row, says the clerk, for making the great master angry?
Yes, yes, says Mouchat, me know, me know, but me
want speak, me tell something.
Well, what would you say? says the clerk.
O! me no let him makee de great master angry. With
that he kneeled down to the clerk.
What ails you? says the clerk. I tell you he must be
hanged.
No, no, says he, no hang de master. Me kneel for him
to great master.
You kneel for him! says the clerk. What, do you
think the great master will mind you? He has made the
great master angry, and must be hanged, I tell you.
What signifies your begging?
Negro. O! me pray, me pray the great master for
him.
negro's excitement at jack's absence. 119
Clerk. Why, what ails you, that you would pray for
him?
Negro. O! he beggee the great master for me, now
me beggee for him. The great master muchee good,
muchee good; he pardon me when the other master beg-
gee me. Now he pardon him when me beggee for him
again.
Clerk. No, no, your begging won't do. Will you be
hanged for him? If you do that something may be.
Negro. Yes, yes, me be hang for de poor master that
beggee for me. Mouchat shall hang, the great master
shall hangee me, whippee me, anything to save the poor
master that beggee me. Yes, yes, indeed.
Clerk. Are you in earnest, Mouchat?
Negro. Yes, indeed, me tellee de true. The great
master shall know me tellee de true, for he shall see the
white man hangee me, Mouchat. Poor negro Mouchat
will be hangee, be whippee, anything for the poor master
that beggee for me.
. With this the poor fellow cried most pitifully, and
there was no room to question his being in earnest;
when, on a sudden, I appeared, for I was fetched to see
all this transaction. I was not in the house at first, but
was just come home from the business you sent me of,
and heard it all, and, indeed, neither the clerk nor I
could bear it any longer, so he came out to me. Go to
him, says he, you have made an example that will never
be forgot: that a negro can be grateful. Go to him,
adds he, for I can talk to him no longer. So I appeared,
and spoke to him presently, and let him see that I was at
liberty; but to hear how the poor fellow behaved your
honor cannot but be pleased.
Mast. Prithee go on, I am pleased with it all. 'Tis
all a new scene of negro life to me, and very moving.
COL.ONEL JACK.
Jack. For a good while he stood as if he had been
thunderstruck and stupid, but, looking steadily at me,
though not speaking a word, at last he mutters to him-
self, (vith a kind of a laugh, Ay. ay, says he, Mouchat
see, Mouchat no see, me wakee, me no wakee; no
hangee, no hangee, he live truly, very live; and then on
a sudden he runs to me, snatches me away as if I had
.been a boy of ten years old, and takes me up upon his
back and runs away with me, till I was fain to cry out to
him to stop; then he sets me down, and looks at me
again, then falls a dancing about me, as if he had been
bewitched, just as you have seen them do about their
wives and children when they are merry.
Well, then, he began to talk with me, and told me
what they had said to him, how I was to be hanged.
Well, says I, Mouchat, and would you have been satis-
fied to be hanged to save me? Yes, yes, says he, be
truly hangee, to beggee you.
But why do you love me so well, Mouchat? said I.
Did you no beggee me, he says, at the great master?
You savee me, make great master muchee good, muchee
kind, no whippee me. Me no forget. Me be whipped,
be hanged, that you no be hanged; me die, that you no
die; me no let any bad be with you all while that me
live.
Now, sir, your honor may judge whether kindness,
well managed, would not oblige these people as well as
cruelty, and whether there are principles of gratitude in
them or no.
Mast. But what, then, can be the reason that we
never believed it to be so before?
Jack. Truly, sir, I fear that Mouchat gave the true
reason.
Mast. What was that, pray? that we were too cruel?
STRATAGEM USED TO REFORM THE NEGROES. 121
Jack. That they never had any mercy showed them;
that they never tried them whether they would be grate-
ful or no; that if they did a fault they were never
spared, but punished with the utmost cruelty. So that
they had no passion, no affection to act upon but that of
fear, which necessarily brought hatred with it; but that
if they were used with compassion they would serve with
affection as well as other servants. Nature is the same,
and reason governs in just proportions in all creatures.
But having never been let taste what mercy is, they know
not how to act from a principle of love.
Mast. I am convinced it is so. But now, pray tell
me, how did you put this in practice with the poor negroes
now in bonds yonder, when you passed such a cruel sen-
tence upon them, that they should be whipped twice a
day for four days together? Was that showing mercy?
Jack. My method was just the same, and if you
please to inquire of Mr. , your other servant, you
will be satisfied that it was so, for we agreed upon the
same measures as I took with Motichat: namely, first, to
put them into the utmost horror and apprehensions of the
cruelest punishment that they ever heard of, and thereby
enhance the value of their pardon, which was to come as
from yourself, but not without our great intercession.
Then I was to argue with them, and work upon their rea-
son, to make the mercy that was showed them sink deep
into their minds, and give lasting impressions; explain
the meaning of gratitude to them, and the nature of an
obligation, and the like, as I had done with Mouchat.
Mast. I am answered. Your method is certainly
right, and I desire you may go on with it, for I desire
nothing on this side heaven more than to have all my
negroes serve me from principles of gratitude for my
kindness to them. I abhor to be feared like a lion, like
COLONEL JACK.
a tyrant. It is a violence upon nature every way, and is
the most disagreeable thing in the world to a generous
mind.
Jack. But, sir, I am doubtful that you may not
believe that I intended to act thus with those poor fel-
lows. I beseech you to send for Mr. , that he may
tell you what we had agreed on, before I speak with him.
Mast. What reason have I to doubt that?
Jack. I hope you have not, but I should be very sorry
you should think me capable of executing such a sentence
as you have heard me own I had passed on them; and
there can be no way effectually to clear it up but this.
Mast. Well, seeing you put so much weight upon it,
he shall be called for.
[He was called, and, being ordered by the master to
tell the measures that were concerted between them for
the punishment or management of those negroes, he gave
it just as Jack had done before.]
Jack. I hope, sir, you are now not only satisfied of
the truth of the account I gave, relating to the method
we had agreed on, but of its being so proper, and so
likely to answer your end.
Mast. I am fully satisfied, and shall be glad to see
that it answers the end. For, as I have said, nothing
can be more agreeable to me, nothing has so much robbed
me of the comfort of all my fortunes, as the cruelty used,
in my name, on the bodies of those poor slaves.
Jack. It is certainly wrong, sir. It is not only wrong
as it is barbarous and cruel, but it is wrong, too, as it is
the worst way of managing and of having your business
done.
Mast. It is my aversion; it fills my very soul with
horror. I believe if I should come by while they were
using those cruelties on the poor creatures, I should
SOME NEGROES UNGOVERNABLE. 123
cither sink down at the sight of it, or fly into a rage and
kill the fellow that did it, though it is done, too, by my
own authority.
Jack. But, sir, I dare say I shall convince you also
that it is wrong in respect of interest, and that your busi-
ness shall be better discharged, and your plantations
better ordered, and more work done by the negroes who
shall be engaged by mercy and lenity, than by those who
are driven and dragged by the whips and the chains of a
merciless tormentor.
Mast. I think the nature of the thing speaks itself.
Doubtless it should be so, and I have often thought it
would be so, and a thousand times wished it might be so.
But all my English people pretend otherwise, and that it
is impossible to bring the negroes to any sense of kind-
ness, and consequently not to any obedience of love.
Jack. It may be true, sir, that there may be found
here and there a negro of a senseless, stupid, sordid dis-
position, perfectly un'ractable, undocible, and incapable
of due impressions, especially incapable of the gener-
osity of principle which I am speaking of. You know
very well, sir, there are such among the Christians, as
well as among the negroes; whence else came the English
proverb, that if you save a thief from the gallows, he
shall be the first to cut your throat. But, sir, if such a
refractory, undocible fellow comes in our way he must
be dealt with, first by the smooth ways, to try him, then
by the violent way, to break his temper, as they break a
horse; and if nothing will do, such a wretch should be
sold off, and others bought in his room, for the peace of
the plantation should not be broken for one devilish-
tempered fellow; and if this was done I doubt not you
should have all your plantations curried on, and your
work done, and not a negro or a servant upon it but
COLONEL JACK.
what would not only work for you, but even die for you
if there was an occasion for it, as you see this poor
Mouchat would have done for me.
Mast. Well, go on with your measures, and may you
succeed. I'll promise you I will fully make you amends
for it. 1 long to have these cruelties out of use, in my
plantation especially. As for others, let them do as they
will.
CHAPTER IX.
MY MASTER GIVES ME MT LIBERTY, AND PUTS ME INTO A
PLANTATION FOR MYSELF PROCEEDINGS AS A PLANTER
— I GET MY BILL CASHED IN LONDON, AND A SORTED
PARCEL OF GOODS SENT OUT FOR ITS AMOUNT THE
GREATEST PART OF THEM ARE LOST AT THE MOUTH OF
THE BAY REFLECTIONS.
Our master being gone. I went to the prisoners, and
first I suffered them to be told that the great master had
been there, and that he had been inclined to pardon them
till he knew what their crime was, but then he said it
was so great a fault that it must be punished. Besides,
the man that talked to them told them that the great
master said that he knew if he had pardoned them they
would be but the worse. for that the negroes were never
thankful for being spared, and that there were no other
ways to make them obedient but by severity.
One of the poor fellows, more sensible than the other,
answered. If any negro be badder for being kindly used
they should be whipped till they were muehee better;
but that he never knew that, for that he never knew the
negro be kindly used.
This was the same thing as the other had said, and,
LIBERATED.
125
indeed, was but too true, for the overseers really knew
no such thing as mercy; and that notion of the negroes,
being no other way to be governed but by cruelty, had
been the occasion that no other method was ever tried
among them.
Again, if a slack hand hud at any time been held upon
them it had not been done with discretion, or as a point of
mercy, and managed with the assistance of argument to
convince the negroes of the nature and reason of it, and
to show them what they ought to do in return for it. But
it was perhaps the effect of negligence, ill conduct, and
want of application to the business of the plantation,
and then it was no wonder that the negroes took the
advantage of it.
Well, I carried on the affair with these two negroes just
as I did with Mouchat, so I need not repeat the particu-
lars, and they were delivered with infinite acknowledg-
ments and thanks, even to all the extravagances of joy
usual in those people on such occasions; and such was
the gratitude of those two pardoned fellows that they
were the most faithful and most diligent servants ever
after that belonged to the whole plantation, Mouchat
excepted.
In this manner I carried on the plantation fully to his
satisfaction, and before a year more was expired there
was scarce any such thing as correction known in the
plantation, except upon a few boys, who were incapable
of the impressions that good usage would have made,
even upon them too, till they had lived to know the
difference.
It was some time after this conference that our great
master, as we called him, sent for me again to his dweli-
ing-house, and told me he had had an answer from Eng-
land from his friend, to whom he had written about my
COLONEL JACK.
bill. I was a little afraid that he was going to ask me
leave to send it to London, but he did not say anything
like that, but told me that his friend had been with the
gentleman, and that he owned the bill, and that he had
all the money in his hand that the bill had mentioned,
but that he had promised the young man that had given
him the money (meaning me) not to pay the money to
anybody but himself, though they should bring the bill,
the reason of which was that I did not know who might
get the bill away from me.
But now, Colonel Jack, says he, as you wrote him an
account where you was, and by what wicked arts you
were trepanned, and that it was impossible for you to
have your liberty till you could get the money, my friend
at London has written to me that, upon making out a
due copy of the bill here, attested by a notary and sent
to him, and your obligation likewise attested, whereby
you oblige yourself to deliver the original to his order,
after the money is paid, he will pay the money.
I told him I was willing to do whatever his honor
directed, and so the proper copies were drawn as I had
been told were required.
But, now, what will you do with this money, Jack? says
he, smiling. Will you buy your liberty of me, and go to
planting?
I was too cunning for him now, indeed, for I remem-
bered what he had promised me, and I had too much
knowledge of the honesty of his principles, as well as of
the kindness he had for me, to doubt his being as good
as his word. So I turned all this talk of his upon him
another way. I knew that when he asked me if 1 would
buy my liberty and go to planting, it was to try if 1
would leave him, so I said, As to buying my liberty,
sir, that is to say, going out of your service, I had much
PREFERS SLAVERY TO LIBERTY.
127
rather buy more time in your service, and I am only
unhappy that I have but two years to serve.
Come, come, colonel, says he, don't flatter me. I love
plain dealing. Liberty is precious to everybody. If you
have a mind to have your money brought over, you shall
have your liberty to begin for yourself, and I will take
care you shall be well used by the country, and get you a
good plantation.
I still insisted that I would not quit his service for the
best plantation in Maryland; that he had been so good
to me, and I believed I was so useful to him, that I could
not think of it; and at last I added I hoped he could
not believe but I had as much gratitude as a negro.
He smiled, and said he would not be served upon those
terms; that he did not forget what he had promised, nor
what I had done in his plantation; and that he was
resolved in the first place to give me my liberty. So he
pulls out a piece of paper, and throws it to me. There,
says he, there's a certificate of your coming on shore,
and being sold to me for five years, of which you have
lived three with me, and now you are your own master.
I bowed, and told him that I was sure if I was my own
master I would be his servant as long as he would accept
of my service; and now we strained courtesies, and he
told me I should be his servant still, but it should be on
two conditions: first, that he would give me SOI. a year
and my board, for my managing the plantation I was
then employed in, and secondly, that at the same time he
would procure me a new plantation to begin upon my
own account. For, Colonel Jack, says he, smiling,
though you are but a young man, yet 'tis time you were
doing something for yourself.
The first thing he did after giving me my liberty as
above, and making me an allowance, was to get the
COLONEL JACK.
country bounty to me — that is to say, a quantity of land
to begin and plant for myself.
But this he managed a way by himself, and, as I
found afterwards, took up — that is, purchased — in my
name, about three hundred acres of laud, in a more con-
venient place than it would have otherwise been allotted
me. And this he did by his interest with the lord pro-
prietor, so that I had an extent of ground marked out to
me, not next, but very near, one of his own plantations.
When I made my acknowledgment for this to him he told
me plainly that I was not beholden to him for it all, for
he did it that I might not be obliged to neglect his busi-
ness for the carrying on my own, and on that account he
would not reckon to me what money he paid, which,
however, according to the custom of the country, was
not a very great sum — I think about 40L or 501.
Thus he very generously gave me my liberty, advanced
this money for me, put me into a plantation for myself,
and gave me 301. a year wages for looking after one of
his own plantations.
But, colonel, says he to me, giving you this plantation
is nothing at all to you, if I do not assist you to support
it and to carry it on, and, therefore, I will give you
credit for whatever is needful to you for the carrying it
on, such as tools, provisions for servants, and some
servants to begin, materials to build out-houses, and
conveniences of all sorts for the plantation, and to buy
hogs, cows, horses for stock, and the like, and I'll take
it out of your cargo, which will come from London, for
the money of your bill.
This was highly obliging and very kind, and the more
so, as it afterwards appeared. In order to this, he sent
two servants of his own, who were carpenters. As for
timber, boards, planks, and all sorts of such things, in a
A PLANTER.
129
country almost all made of wood they could not be want-
ing. These run me up a little wooden house in less than
three weeks' time, where I had three rooms, a kitchen,
an out-house, and two large sheds at a distance from
the house, for store-houses, almost like barns, with sta-
bles at the end of them. And thus I was set up in the
world, and, in short, removed by the degrees that you
have heard from a pick-pocket to a kidnapped, miserable
slave in Virginia (for Maryland is Virginia, speaking
of them at a distance), then from a slave to a head
officer or overseer of slaves, and from thence to a master
planter.
I was now a planter, and encouraged by a kind bene-
factor. For, that I might not be wholly taken up with
my new plantation, he gave me freely, and without any
consideration, my grateful negro Mouchat. He told me
it was a debt due to the affection that poor creature had
always had for me, and so, indeed, it was, for as the
fellow would once have been hanged for me, so now, and
to his last, he loved me so much that it was apparent he
did everything with pleasure that he did for me; and he
was so overcome of joy when he heard that he was to be
my negro, that the people in the plantation really thought
it would turn his head, and that the fellow would go
distracted.
Resides this, he sent me two servants more, a man and
a woman, but these he put to my account, as above.
Mouchat and these two fell immediately to work for me,
and they began with about two acres of land which had
but little timber on it at first, and most of that was cut
down by the two carpenters who built my house, or
shed rather, for so it should be called.
These two acres I got in good forwardness, and most
of it well planted with tobacco, though some of it we were
COLONEL JACK.
obliged to plant with garden-stuff for food, such as pota-
toes, carrots, cabbages, peas, beans, etc.
It was a great advantage to me that I had so bountiful
a master, who helped me out in every case, for in this
very first year I received a terrible blow, for my bill, as
I have observed, having been copied, and attested in
form, and sent to London, my kind friend and custom-
house gentleman paid me the money, and the merchant at
London, by my good master's direction, had laid it all out
in a sorted cargo of goods for me, such as would have
made a man of me all at once; but, to my inexpressible
terror and surprise, the ship w s lost, and that just at
the entrance into the capes — that is to say, the mouth of
the bay. Some of the goods were recovered, but spoiled,
and, in short, nothing but the nails, tools, and iron-work
were good for anything; and though the value of them
was pretty considerable in proportion to the rest, yet my
loss was irreparably great, and, indeed, the greatness of
the loss consisted in its being irreparable.
I was perfectly astonished at the first news of the loss,
knowing that I was in debt to my patron, or master, so
much that it must be several years before I should
recover it; and as he brought me the bad news himself
he perceived my disorder — that is to say, he saw I was in
the utmost confusion and a kind of amazement, and so,
indeed, I was, because 1 was so much in debt; but he
spoke cheerfully to me. Come, says he, do not be so
discouraged, you may make up this loss. No, sir, says
I, that never can be, for it is my all, and I shall never be
out of debt. Well, but, says he, you have no creditor,
however, but me, and now remember I once told you I
would make a man of you, and I will not disappoint you
for this disaster.
I thanked him, and did it with more ceremony and
131
respect thau ever, because I thought myself more under
the hatches than I was before. But he was as good as
his word, for he did not baulk me in the least of any-
thing I wanted; and as I had more iron-work saved out
of the ship, in proportion, than I wanted, I supplied him
with some part of it, and took up some linen and clothes
ami other necessaries from him in exchange.
And now I began to increase visibly. I had a large
quantity of land cured— that is, freed from timber — and
a very good crop of tobacco in view; and I got three
servants more and one negro, so that I had five white
servants and two negroes, and with this my affairs went
very well on.
The first year, indeed, I took my wages, or salary—
that is to say, 30i. a year — because I wanted it very
much, but the second and third year I resolved not to
take it, on any account whatsoever, but to leave it
in my benefactor's hands, to clear off the debt I had
contracted.
I began now to love books, and particularly I had an
opportunity of reading some very considerable ones,
such as Livy's Roman history, the history of the Turks,
the English history of Speed, and others, the history of
the Low Country wars, the history of Gustavus Adolphus,
king of Sweden, and the history of the Spaniards' con-
quest of Mexico, with several others, some of which I
bought at a planter's house, who was lately dead, and his
goods sold, and others I had borrowed.
I considered my present state of life to be my mere
youth, though I was now above thirty years old, because
in my youth I had learned nothing, and if my daily
business, which was now great, would have permitted, I
would have been content to have gone to sohool. How-
ever, fate, that had yet something else in store for me,
COLONEL JACK.
threw aii opportunity into my hand: namely, a clever
fellow, that came over, a transported felon, from Bristol,
and fell into my hands for a servant. He had led a loose
life—that he acknowledged—and, being driven to extrem-
ities, took to the highway, for which, had he been taken,
he would have been hanged, but, falling into some low-
prized rogueries afterwards, for want of opportunity for
worse, was catched, condemned, and transported, and,
as he said, was glad he came off so.
He was an excellent scholar and I, perceiving it,
asked him one time if he could give a method how I
might learn the Latin tongue. He said, smiling, Yes, he
could teach it me in three months, if I would let him
have books, or even without books, if he had time. I
told him a book would become his hands better than a
hoe, and if he could promise to make me but understand
Latin enough to read it, and understand other languages
by it, I would ease him of the labor which I was now
obliged to put him to, especially if I was assured that he
was fit to receive that favor of a kind master. In short,
I made him to me what my benefactor made me to him,
and from him I gained a fund of knowledge, infinitely
more valuable than the rate of a slave, which was what I
had paid for it, but of this hereafter.
With these thoughts I went cheerfully about my work.
As I had now five servants my plantation went on,
though gently, yd safely, and increased gradually,
though slowly. But the third year, with the assistance
of my old benefactor, 1 purchased two negroes more, so
that now I had seven servants, and, having cured land
sufficient for supply of their food, I was at no difficulty
to maintain them; so that my plantation began now to
enlarge itself, and as I lived without any personal
expense, but was maintained at my old great master's, as
HIS BENEFACTOR DIES.
133
we called him, and at his charge, with 30L a year besides,
so all my gains was laid up for increase.'
CHAPTER X.
I ADVANCE RAPIDLY TO RICHES AND HONOR FOR TWELVE
YEARS MY BENEFACTOR DIES I EMBARK FOR ENG-
LAND AM TAKEN BY A FRENCH PRIVATEER THE
PRIVATEER TAKES ANOTHER ENGLISH SHIP ACCOUNT
OF HER CARGO.
In this posture I went on for twelve years, and was
very successful in my plantation, and had gotten, by
means of my master's favor, who now I called my
friend, a correspondent in London, with whom I traded,
shipped over my tobacco to him, and received European
goods in return, such as I wanted to carry on my planta-
tion, and sufficient to sell to others also.
In this interval my good friend and benefactor died,
and I was left very disconsolate on account of my loss,
for it was, indeed, a great loss to me. He had been
a father to me, and I was like a forsaken stranger without
him, though I knew the country and the trade, too, well
enough, and had for some time chiefly carried on his
whole business for him, yet I seemed now at a loss. My
counsellor and my chief supporter was gone, and I had
no confidant to communicate myself to, on all occasions,
as formerly; but there was no remedy. I was, however,
in a better condition to stand alone than ever. I had a
very large plantation, and had near seventy negroes and
other servants.
I was now a planter, and also a student. My peda-
gogue was very diligent, and proved an extraordinary
man, indeed. He taught me not only with application,
COLONEL JACK.
but with admirable judgment in the teaching part. He
read history to mc, and, where books were wanting, he
gave me ideas of those things which had not been recorded
by our modern histories, or, at least, that our number of
books would not reach. By these things he raised an
unquenchable thirst in me, after seeing something that
was doing in the world, and the more, because all the
world was at that time engaged, more or less, in the
great war wherein the French king might be said to be
engaged with and against all the powers of Europe.
Now, I looked upon myself as one buried alive in a
remote part of the world, where I could see nothing at
all, and hear but a little of what was seen, and that
little not till at least half a year after it was done, and
sometimes a year or more; and, in a word, the old
reproach often came in the way: namely, that even this
was not yet the life of a gentleman.
It was true that this was much nearer to it than that
of a pick-pocket, and still nearer than that of a sold
slave, but, in short, this would not do, and I could
receive no satisfaction in it. I had now a second plan-
tation, a very considerable one, and it went forward very
well. I had on it almost a hundred servants already of
sundry sorts, and an overseer that I had a great deal of
reason to say I might depend upon, and but that I had a
third in embryo, and newly begun, I had nothing to
hinder me from going where I pleased.
However, I now began to frame my thoughts for a
voyage to England, resolving then to act as I should see
cause, but with a secret resolution to see more of the
world if possible, and realize those things to my mind
which I had hitherto only entertained remote ideas of by
the help of books.
After having settled my plantation in such hands as
PROVISION FOR (iOING TO ENGLAND.
135
was fully to my satisfaction, my first work was to furnish
myself with such a stock of goods and money as might
be sufficient for my occasions abroad, and particularly
might allow me to make large returns to Maryland, for
the use and supply of all my plantations; but when I
came to look nearer into the voyage it occurred to me
that it would not be prudent to put my cargo all on
board the same ship that I went in, so I shipped at
several times five hundred hogsheads of tobacco in
several ships for England, giving notice to my corre-
spondent in London that I would embark about such a
time to come over myself, and ordering him to insure for
a considerable sum, proportioned to the value of my
cargo.
About two months after this I left the place, and
embarked for England in a stout ship, carrying twenty-
four guns, and about six hundred hogsheads of tobacco,
and we left the capes of Virginia on the 1st of August.
We had a very sour and rough voyage for the first fort-
night, though it was in a season so generally noted for
good weather.
After we had been about eleven days at sea, having
the wind most part of the time blowing very hard at
west, or between the west and north-west, by which we
were carried a great way farther to the eastward than
they usually go in their course for England, we met with
a furious tempest, which held us five days, blowing most
of the time excessive hard, and by which we were obliged
to run away afore the wind, as the seamen call it, where-
soever it was our lot to go. By this storm our ship was
greatly damaged, and some leaks we had, but not so bad
that by the diligence of the seamen they were stopped.
However, the captain, after having beaten up again as
well as he could against the weather, and the sea going
COLONEL JACK.
very high, at length he resolved to go away for the
Bermudas.
I was not seaman enough to understand what the
reason of their disputes was, but in their running for the
islands, it seems, they overshot the latitude, and could
never reach the islands of Bermudas again. The master
and the mate differed to an extremity about this, their
reckonings being more than usually wide of one another,
the storm having driven them a little out of their knowl-
edge. The master, being a positive man, insulted the
mate about it, and threatened to expose him for it when
he came to England. The mate was an excellent sea
artist, and an experienced sailor, but wiihal a modest
man, and, though he insisted upon his being right, did it
in respectful terms, and as it became him; but after
several days' dispute, when the weather came to abate,
and the heavens to clear up, that they could take their
observations and know where th- y were, it appeared that
the mate's account was right, and the captain was mis-
taken, for they were then in the latitude of 29 degrees,
and quite out of the wake of the Bermudas.
The mate made no indecent use of the discovery at all,
and the captain, being convinced, carried it civilly to him,
and so the heats were over among them; but the next
question was what they should do next. Some were for
going one way, some another, but all agreed that they
were not in a condition to go on the direct course for
England, unless they could have a southerly or south-
west wind, which had not been our fate since we came to
sea.
Upon the whole, they resolved by consent to steer away
to the Canaries, which was the nearest land they could
make, except the Cape de Verd islands, which were too
much to the southward for us, if it could be avoided.
CAPTURED BY A FRENCH PRIVATEER
137
Upon this they stood away N. E., and the wind hang-
ing still westerly, or to the northward of the west, we
made good way, and in about fifteen days' sail we made
the Pico Teneriffe, being a monstrous hill in one of the
Canary Islands. Here we refreshed ourselves, got fresh
water and some fresh provisions, and plenty of excellent
wine, but no harbor to run into, to take care of the ship
which was leaky and tender, having had so much very
bad weather, so we were obliged to do as well as we
could, and put to sea again, after riding at the Canaries
four clays only.
From the Canaries we had tolerable weather and a
smooth sea till we came into the soundings (so they call the
mouth of the British Channel), and the wind blowing hard
at the N. and N. W. obliged us to keep a larger offing,
as the seamen call it, at our entrance into the channel,
when, behold! in the grey of the morning, a French
cruiser or privateer of twenty-six guns appeared, and
crowded after us with all the sail they could make. In
short, our captain exchanged a broadside or two with
them, which was terrible work to me, for I had never seen
such before, the Frenchman's guns having raked us, and
killed and wounded six of our best men.
In short, after a fight long enough to show us that if
we would not be taken we must resolve to sink by her
side, for there was no room to expect deliverance, and a
fight long enough to save the master's credit, we were
taken, and the ship carried away to St. Maloes.
I was not much concerned for the loss I had in the ship,
because I knew I had sufficient in the world somewhere
or other, but as I was effectually stripped of everything
I had about me, and even almost my clothes from my
back, I was in but a very indifferent condition; but some-
body informing the captain of the privateer that I was a
COLONEL JACK.
passenger and a merchant, he called for me and inquired
into my circumstances, and, coming to hear from myself
how I had been used, obliged the seamen to give me a
coat and hat and a pair of shoes, which they had taken
off me, and himself gave me a morning-gown of his own
to wear while 1 was in his ship, and, to give him his due,
treated me very well.
I had, however, besides my being taken, the mortifica-
tion to be detained on board the cruiser, and seeing the
ship I was in manned with Frenchmen and sent away, as
above, for St. Maloes; and this was a greater mortifica-
tion to me afterwards, when, being brought into St.
Maloes, I heard that our ship was re-taken in her passage
to St. Maloes by an English man-of-war, and carried to
Portsmouth.
When our ship was sent away the Rover cruised abroad
again in the mouth of the channel for some time, but met
with no purchase. At last they made a sail, which proved
to be one of their nation, and one of their own trade,
from whom they learned — the news having been carried
to England — that some French privateers lay off and on
in the soundings, that three English men-of-war were
come out from Plymouth on purpose to cruise in the chan-
nel, and that they would certainly meet with us. Upon
this intelligence the Frenchman, a bold, brave fellow, far
from shrinking from his work, steers away N. E. for St.
George's Channel, and in the latitude of 48 degrees and
a half, unhappily enough, meets with a large and rich
English ship, bound home from Jamaica. It was in the
grey of the morning, and very clear, when a man on the
roundtop cried out, Au voile, a sail. I was in hopes,
indeed, it had been the English man-of-war, and, by the
hurry and clutter they were in to get all ready for a fight,
I concluded it was so, and got out of my hammock, for I
THE PRIVATEER TAKES ANOTHER ENGLISH SHIP. 130
had no cabin to lie in, that I might see what it was; but
I soon found that my hopes were in vain, and it was on
the wrong side; for that being on our larboard bow, the
ship lying then northward to make the coast of Ireland,
by the time I was turned out I could perceive they had
all their sails bent and full, having begun to chase, and
making great way. On the other hand it was evident
the ship saw them, too, and knew what they were; and,
to avoid them, stretched away with all the canvas they
could lay on for the coast of Ireland, to run in there for
harbor.
Our privateer, it was plain, infinitely outsailed her,
running two feet for her one, and towards evening came
up with them. Had they been able to have held it but
six hours longer they would have got into Limerick River,
or somewhere under shore, so that we should not have
ventured upon them, but we came up with them, and the
captain, when he saw there was no remedy, bravely
brought to, and prepared to fight. She was a ship of
thirty guns, but deep in the sea, cumbered between decks
with goods, and could not run out her lower deck guns,
the sea also going pretty high, though at last she ven-
tured to open her gun-room ports and fire with three guns
on a side; but her worst fate was she sailed heavy, being
deep loaden, and the Frenchman had run up by her side
and poured in his broadside, and was soon ready again.
However, as she was well manned, too, and that the
English sailors bestirred themselves, they gave us their
broadsides, too, very nimbly and hearti'y, and I found
the Frenchman had a great many men killed at the first
brush, but the next was worse, for the English ship,
though she did not sail so well as the Frenchman, was a
bigger ship and strong built, and as we (the French) bore
down upon them again, the English run boldly on board
COLONEL JACK.
us, and Lid thwart our hawse, lashing themselves fast to
us. Then it was that the English captain run out his
lower tier of guns, and, indeed, tore the Frenchman so
that, had he held it, the privateer would have had the
worst of it. But the Frenchmen, with admirable readi-
iness, indeed, and courage, the captain appearing every-
where with his sword in his hand, bestirred themselves,
and loosing themselves from the English ship, thrusting
her off with brooms, and pouring their small shot so thick
that the other could not appear upon deck — I say. clear-
ing themselves thus, they came to lie a-broadside of each
other, when, by long firing, the English ship was at length
disabled, her mizzen-mast and bowsprit shot away, and,
which was worst of all, her captain killed; so that, after
a fight which held all night (for they fought in the dark)
and part of the next day, they were obliged to strike.
I was civilly desired by the French captain to go down
into the hold while the fight held, and, besides the civility
of it, I found he was not willing I should be upon deck.
Perhaps he thought I might have some opportunity to
do hurt, though I knew not how it could be. However,
I was very ready to go down, for I had no mind to be
killed, especially by my own friends, so I went down and
sat by the surgeon, and had the opportunity to find that
the first broadside the English fired, seven wounded men
were brought down to the surgeon, and thirty-three more
afterwards — that is to say, when the English lay thwart
their bow — and after they cleared themselves there were
about eleven more, so that they had fifty-one men
wounded, and about twenty-two killed. The Englishman
had eighteen men killed and wounded, among whom was
the captain.
The French captain, however, trinmphed in this prize,
for it was an exceeding rich ship, having abundance of
ON ACCOUNT OF HER CA1MJO.
Ml
silver on board; and after the ship was taken, and they
had plundered all the great cabin afforded, which was
very considerable, the mate promised the captain that,
if he would give him his liberty, he would discover six
thousand pieces of eight to him privately, which none of
the men should know of. The captain engaged, and gave
it under his hand to set him at liberty as soon as he cam ..
on shore. Accordingly, in the night, after all Was either
turned in, as they call it, or employed on the duty of the
watch, the captain and the mate of the prize went on
board, and, having faithfully discovered the money, which
lay in a place m ide on purpose to conceal it, the captain
resolved to let it lie till they arrived, and then he con-
veyed it on shore for his own use, so that the owners,
nor the seamen, ever came to any share of it, which, by
the way, was a fraud in the captain; but the mate pa d
his ransom by the discovery, and the captain gave him
his liberty very punctually, as he had promised, and two
hundred pieces of eight to carry him to England, and to
make good his losses.
When he had made this prize the captain thought of
nothing more than how to get safe to France with her,
for she was a ship sufficient to enrich all his men and his
owners also. The account of lur cargo, by the captain's
books, of which I took a copy, was in general:
260 hogsheads of sugar.
187 smaller casks of sugar.
176 barrels of indigo.
28 casks of pimento.
42 bags of cotton wool.
80 cwt. of elephants' teeth.
60 small casks of rum.
18,000 pieces of eight, besides the 6000 concealed.
Several parcels of drugs, tortoise-shell, sweetmeats,
COLONEL JACK.
called succades, chocolate, lime-juice, and other things of
considerable value.
This was a terrible loss among the English merchants,
and a noble booty for the rogues that took it; but as it
was in open war, and by fair fighting, as they call it,
there was no objection to be made against them, and, to
give them their due, they fought bravely for it.
CHAPTER XL
WE LAND AT BORDEAUX, IN FRANCE I GET RID OF MY
CAPTAIN WITHOUT PAYING RANSOM, AND ARRIVE AT
GHENT, WHERE I JOIN THE ARMY PROCEEDINGS THERE
I ARRIVE IN LONDON, AND HEAR NEWS OF MAJOR
JACK I RETURN TO FRANCE OBTAIN A COMPANY IN
A REGIMENT FURTHER ADVENTURES I SELL MY COM-
PANY AND EMBARK IN THE FRENCH FLEET.
The captain was not so bold as to meet the English
men-of-war before, but he was as wary now, for, having
a prize of such value in his hands, he was resolved not
to lose her again, if he could help it. So he stood
away to the southward, and that so far that I once
thought he was resolved to go i'lto the Straits, and home
by Marseilles. But having sailed to the latitude of 4f>
degrees 45 minutes, or thereabouts, he steered away east,
into the bottom of the Bay of Biscay, and carried us all
into the river of Bordeaux, where, on notice of his
arrival with such a prize, his owners, or principals, came
overland to see him, and where they consulted what to
do with her. The money they secured, to be sure, and
some of the cargo, but the ships sailed afterwards
along the coast to St. Malo, taking the opportunity of
LANDED AT BORDEAUX.
143
some French men-of-war, which were cruising on the
coast, to be their convoy as far as Ushant.
Here the captain rewarded and dismissed the English
mate, as I have said, who got a passage from thence to
Dieppe by sea, and after that into England, by the help
of a passport, through Flanders to Ostend. The captain,
it seems, the more willingly shipped him off, that he
might not discover to others what he had discovered to
him.
I was now at Bordeaux, in France, and the captain
asked me one morning what I intended to do I did not
understand him at first, but he soon gave me to under-
stand that I was now either to be de'ivered up to the
state as an English prisoner, and so be carried to Dinant,
in Brittany, or to find means to have myself exchanged,
or to pay my ransom, and this ransom, he told me at first,
was three hundred crowns.
I knew not what to do, but desired he would give me
time to write to England to my friends, for that I had a
cargo of goods sent to them by me from Virginia, but I
did not know but it might have fallen into such hands as
his were, and if it was I knew not what would be my
fate. He readily granted that, so I wrote by the post,
and had the satisfaction, in answer to it, to hear that the
ship I was taken in had been re-taken, and carried into
Portsmouth, which, I doubted, would have made my new
master more strict, and perhaps insolent, but he said
nothing of it to me, nor I to him, though, as I after-
wards understood, he had advice of it before.
However, this was a help to me, and served to more
than pay my ransom to the captain, and my corre-
spondent in London, hearing of my being alive, and at
Bordeaux, immediately sent me a letter of credit upon
an English merchant at Bordeaux, for whatever I might
COLONEL JACK.
have occasion for. As soon as I received this I went to
the merchant, who honored the letter of credit, and told
me I should have what money I pleased. But as I, who
was before a mere stranger in the place, and knew not
what course to hike, had now, as it were, a friend to
communicate my affairs to and consult with, as soon as I
told him my case, Hold, says he, if that be your case, I
may perhaps find a ivay to get you off without a ransom.
There was, it seems, a ship bound home to France
from Martinico, taken off Cape Finisterre by an English
man-of-war, and a merchant of Rochelle, being a pas-
senger, was taken on board, and brought into Plymouth.
This man had made great solicitation by his friends to be
exchanged, pleading poverty, and that he was unable to
pay any ransom. My friend told me something of it, but
not much, only bade me not be too forward to pay any
money to the captain, but pretend I could not hear from
England. This 1 did till the captain appeared impatient.
After some time the captain told me I had used him
ill; that I had made him expect a ransom, and he had
treated rue courteously, and been at expense to subsist
me, and that I held him in suspense, but that, in short,
if I did not procure the money he would send me to
Uinant in ten days, to lie there as the king's prisoner till
I should be exchanged. My merchant gave me my cue,
and by his directions 1 answered I was very sensible of
his civility, and sorry he should lose what expenses he had
been at, but that I found my friends forgot me, and what
to do I did not know, and that, rather than impose upon
him, I must submit to go to Dinant, or whore he thought
fit to send me, but that if ever I obtained my liberty, and
came into England, I would not fail to reimburse him
what expense he had been at for my subsistence; and so,
in short, made my case very bad in all my discourse.
BILKS TIIK CAPTAIN OF HIS HANSOM.
145
He shook his head and said little, but the next day
entered rue in the list of English prisoners to be at the
king's charge, as appointed by the intendant of the place,
and to be sent away into Brittany.
I was then out of the captain's power, and immediately
the merchant, with two others who were friends to the
merchant prisoner at Plymouth, went to the intendant
and gained an order for the exchang1, and iny friend
giving security for my being forthcoming, in case the
other was not delivered, I had my liberty immediately,
and went home with him to his house.
Thus we bilked the captain of his ransom money, but,
however, my friend went to him, and, letting him know
that I was exchanged by the governor's order, paid him
whatever he could say he was in disburse on my account,
and it was not then in the captain's power to object, or
to claim anything for a ransom.
I got passage from hence to Dunkirk on board a French
vessel, and, having a certificate of an exchanged prisoner
from the intjudant at Bordeaux, I had a passport given
me to go into the Spanish Netherlands, and so whither I
pleased.
Accordingly, I came to Ghent, in April, , just as
the armies were going to take the field. 1 had no dislike
to the business of the army, but I thought 1 was a little
above it now, and had other things to look to, for that,
in my opinion, nobody went into the field but those that
could not live at home; and yet I resolved to see the
manner of it a little, too. So, having made an acquaint-
ance with an English officer, quartered at Ghent, I told
him my intention, and he invited me to go with him, and
offered me his protection as a volunteer, that I should
quarter with him in his tent, and live as I would, and
either carry arms or not, as I saw o-fusion.
COLONEL JACK.
The campaign was none of the hardest that had been,
or was like to be, so that I had the diversion of seeing
the service, as it was proper to call it, without much
hazard. Indeed, I did not see any considerable action,
for there was not much fighting that campaign. As to
the merit of the cause on either side I knew nothing of
it, nor had I suffered any of the disputes about it to
enter into my thoughts. The Prince of Orange had been
made King of England, and the English troops were all
on his side; and I heard a great deal of swearing and
damning for King William among the soldiers, but as for
fighting, I observed the French beat them several times,
and particularly the regiment my friend belonged to was
surrounded in a village where they were posted, I knew
not upon what occasion, and all taken prisoners. But by
great good hap, I, being not in service, and so not in com-
mand, was strolled away that day to see the country
about, for it was my delight to see the strong towns, and
observe the beauty of their fortifications, and while I
diverted myself thus, I had the happy deliverance of not
being taken by the French for that time.
When I came back I found the enemy possessed of
the town, but as I was no soldier, they did me no harm,
and, having my French passport in my pocket, they gave
me leave to go to Newport, where I took the packet-boat,
and came over to England, landing at Deal instead of
Dover, the weather forcing us into the Downs; and thus
my short campaign ended, and this was my second essay
at the trade of soldiering.
When 1 came to London I was very well received by
my friend, to whom 1 had consigned my effects, and I
found myself in very good circumstances, for all my
goods, which, as above, by several ships, I had con-
signed to him, came safe to hand, and my overseers that
AT THE HEIGHT OF GOOD t'ORTLNK.
147
I had left behind had shipped at several times four
hundred hogsheads of tobacco to my correspondent in my
absence, being the product of my plantation, or part of
it, for the time of my being abroad; so that I had above
1,000L in my factor's hands, two hundred hogsheads of
tobacco besides left in hand, not sold.
I had nothing to do now but entirely to conceal
myself from all that had any knowledge of me before,
and this was the easiest thing in the world to do, for I
was grown out of everybody's knowledge, and most of
those I had known were grown out of mine. My captain,
who went with me, or, rather, who carried me away, I
found, by inquiring at the proper place, had been ram-
bling about the world, came to London, fell into his own
trade, which he could not forbear, and, growing an
eminent highwayman, had made his exit at the gallows,
after a life of fourteen years, most exquisite and suc-
cessful rogueries, the particulars of which would make,
as I observed, an admirable history. My other brother
Jack, who I called major, followed the like wicked trade,
but was a man of more gallantry and generosity; and
having committed innumerable depredations upon man-
kind, yet had always so much dexterity as to bring him-
self off, till at length he was laid fast in Newgate, and
loaded with irons, and would certainly have gone the
same way as the captain but he was so dexterous a
rogue that no gaol, no fetters, would hold him, and he,
with two more, found means to knock off their irons,
worked their way through the wall of the prison, and let
themselves down on the outside in the night. So escaping,
they found means to get into France, where he followed
the same trade, and with so much success that he grew
famous by the name of Anthony, and had the honor,
with three of his comrades, whom he had taught the
COLONEL JACK.
English way of robbing generously, as they called it,
without murdering or wounding or ill-using those they
robbed — I say, he had the honor to be broke upon the
wheel at the Greve in Pai is.
AH these things I found means to be fully informed of,
and to have a long account of the particulars of their
conduct from some of their comrades who had the good
fortune to escape, and who I got the knowledge of, with-
out letting them so much as guess at who I was, or upon
what account I inquired.
I was now at the height of my good fortune. Indeed,
I was in veiy good circumstances, and, being of a frugal
temper from the beginning, I saved things together as
they came, and yet lived very well, too. Particularly I
had the reputation of a very considerable merchant, and
one that came over vastly rich from Virginia; and as I
frequently bought supplies for my several families and
plantations there, as they wrote to me for them, so I
passed, I say, for a great merchant.
I lived single, indeed, and in lodgings, but I beg in to
be very well known, and though I had subscribed my
name only Jack to my particular correspondent, yet the
French, among whom I lived n.ar a year, as I have said,
not understanding what Jack meant, called me Monsieur
Jacque, and Colonel Jacques, and sj gradually Colonel
Jacque. So 1 was called in the certificate of exchanging
me with the other prisoner, so that I went so also into
Flanders, upon which, and seeing my certificate of
exchange, as above, I was called Colonel Jacques in
England by my friend who I called correspondent; and
thus I passed for a foreigner, and a Frenchman, and I
was infinitely fond of having everybody take me for a
Frenchman; and as I spoke French very well, having
learned it by continuing so long among them, so 1 went
ENTERS THK FRENCH ARMY.
149
constantly to the French church in London, .and spoke
French upon all occasions, as much as I could; and, to
complete the appearance of it, I got me a French servant
to do my business — I mean as to my merchandise —which
only consisted in receiving and disposing of tobacco, of
which I had about five hundred to six hundred hogsheads
a year from my own plantations, and in supplying my
people with necessaries, as they wanted them.
In this private condition I continued about two years
more. In the year 1700 I resolved to go back to France,
after I had received my effects from Virginia, and accord-
ingly I came to Dunkirk, and here I fell into company
with some Irish officers of the regiment of Dillon, who
by little and little entered me into the army, and, by the
help of Lieutenant-General Connor, an Irishman, and
some money, I obtained a company in his regiment, and
so went into the army direct'y
I was exceedingly pleased with my new circumstances,
and now I used to say to myself I was come to what I
was born to, and that I had never till now lived the life
of a gentleman.
Our regiment, after I had been some time in it, was
commanded into Italy, and one of the most considerable
actions that I was in was the famous attack upon Cre-
mona, in the Milanese, where the Germans, being pri-
vately, and by treachery, let into the town in the night,
through a kind of common sewer, surprised the town,
and got possession of the greatest part of it, surprising
the mareschal Duke de Villeroy, and taking him prisoner
as he came out of his quarters, and beating the few
French troops which were left in the citadel; but were in
the middle of their victory so boldly and resolutely
attacked by two Irish regiments, who were quartered in
the street leading to the river Po, and who kept possession
COLONEL JACK.
of the water-gate, or Po gate, of the town, by which the
German reinforcements should have come in, that, after a
most desperate fight, the Germans had theL- victory
wrung out of their hands, and, not being able to break
through us to let in their friends, were obliged at length
to quit the town again, to the eternal honor of those Irish
regiments, and, indeed, of their whole nation, and for
which we had a very handsome compliment from the
king of France.
Philip de Comines tells us that, after the battle of
Monteleri, the Count de Charolois, who till then had an
utter aversion to the war, and abhorred it, and every-
thing that belonged to it, was so changed by the glory he
obtained in that action, and by the flattery of those about
him, that afterwards the army was his mistress, and the
fatigues of the war his chief delight. It is too great an
example for me to bring in my own case, but so it was
that they flattered me so with my bravery, as they called
it, on the occasion of this action, that I fancied myself
brave, whether I was so or not, and the pride of it made
me bold and daring to the last degree on all occasions;
but what added to it was that somebody gave a particular
account to the court of my being instrumental to the
saving the city, and the whole Cremonese, by my extra-
ordinary defence of the Po gate, and by my managing
that defence after the lieutenant-colonel, who commanded
the party where I was posted, was killed; upon which the
king sent me a public testimony of his accepting my
service, and sent me a brevet to be a lieutenant-colonel,
and the next courier brought me actually a commission
for lieutenant-colonel in the regiment of .
I was in several skirmishes and petty encounters before
this, by which I gained the reputation of a good officer,
but I happened to be in some particular posts, too, by
SURRENDERS TO A GERMAN OFFICER. 1.31
which I got somewhat that I liked much better, and that
was a good deal of money.
In one action a German officer of dragoons, well fol-
lowed, had knocked down three men that stood next me,
and, offering me quarter, I was obliged to accept it, and
gave him my sword, for our men were upon the point of
quitting their post, and shifting every one as they could;
but the scale was turned, for our cavalry breaking in, the
dragoons went to wreck, and the officer who had me
prisoner, turning to me, said, We are all lost. I asked
him if I could serve him. Stand still a little, says he;
for his men fought most desperately, indeed, but about
two hundred French horse appearing in his rear, too, he
said to me in French, I will be your prisoner, and, return-
ing me my sword, gave me also his own. A dragoon that
stood near him was just going to do the like, when he
was shot dead, and the horse coming up, the field was
cleared in an instant, but Prince Commercy went off with
the rest of his party, and was pursued no farther.
There were sixteen or seventeen of our men released, as
I was, from being taken, but they had not the luck I had,
to take the officer that had them in keeping. He had
been so generous to me as not to ask what money I had
about me, though I had not much if he had, but I lost by
his civility, for then I could not have the assurance to
ask him for his money, though I understood he had near
a hundred pistoles about him; but he very handsomely at
night, when we came to our tents, made me a present of
twenty pistoles, and in return I obtained leave for him to
go to Prince Eugene's camp upon his parole, which he
did, and so got himself exchanged.
The summer after this our two Irish regiments were
drawn out into the field, and had many a sore brush with
the Germans ; for Prince Eugene, a vigilant general, gave
COLONEL JACK.
us little rest, and gained many advantages by his con-
tinual moving up and down, harassing his own men and
ours, too; and whoever will do the French justice, and
knew how they behaved, must acknowledge they never
declined the Germans, but fought them upon all occasions
with the utmost resolution and courage; and though it
cost the blood of an infinite number of fine gentlemen,
as well as private soldiers, vet the Duke de Vend6me,
who now commanded, though King Philip was himself in
the army this campaign, made the Prince of Savoy a full
return in his own kind, and drove him from post to post,
till he was just at the point of quitting the whole country
of Italy. All that gallant army Prince Eugene brought
with him into Italy, which was the best, without doubt,
for the goodness of the troops, that ever were there, laid
their bones in that country, and many thousands more
after them, till, the affairs of France declining in other
places, they were forced in their turn to give way to their
fate, as may be seen in the histories of those times, as
above; but it is none of my business.
I had now a secret design to quit the war, for I really
had had enough of fighting, but it was counted so dis-
honorable a thing to quit while the army was in the field,
that I could not dispense with it; but an intervening
accident made that part easy to me. The war was now
renewed between France and England and Holland, just
as it was before, and the French king, meditating nothing
more than how to give the English a diversion, fitted out
a strong squadron of men-of-war and frigates, at Dun-
kirk, on board of which he embarked a body of troops,
of about six thousand five hundred men, besides volun-
teers; and the new king, as we called him, though more
generally he was called the Chevalier de St. George, was
shipped along with them, and all for Scotland.
SELLS HIS COMPANY AND JOINS THE t'KENCH FLEET. 153
I pretended a great deal of zeal for this service, and
that if I might be permitted to sell my company in the
Iiish regiment I was in, and have the chevalier's brevet
for a colonel, in case of raising troops for him in Great
Britain, after his arrival, I would embark volunteer, and
serve at my own expense. The latter gave me a great
advantage with the chevalier, for now I was esteemed as
a man of consideration, aud one that must have a con-
siderable interest in my own country. So I obtained
leave to sell my company, and, having had a good round
sum of money remitted me from London, by the way of
Holland, 1 prepared a very handsome equipage, and
away I went to Dunkirk to embark.
I was very well received by the cjievalier, aud. as he
had an account that 1 was an officer in the Irish brigade,
and had served in Italy, and consequently was an old
soldier, all this added to the character which I had
before, and made me have a great deal of honor paid
me, though at the same time I had no particular attach-
ment to his person, or to his cause, nor, indeed, did I
much consider the cause of one side or other. If I
had, I should hardly have risked, not my life only,
but effects, too, which were all, as I might say, from
that moment forfeited to the English government, and
were too evidently in their power to confiscate at their
pleasure.
However, having just received a remittance from Lon-
don of 300L sterling, and sold my company in the Irish
regiment for very near as much, I was not only insensibly
drawn in, but was perfectly volunteer in that dull cause,
and away I went with them at all hazards. It belongs
very little to my history to give an account of that fruit-
less expedition, only to tell you that, being so closely
and effectually chased by the English fleet, which was
COLONEL JACK.
superior in force to the French, I may say that, in
escaping them, I escaped being hanged.
It was the good fortune of the French that they over-
shot the port they aimed at, and. intending for the frith
of Forth, or, as it is called, the frith of Edinburgh, the
first land they made was as far north as a place called
Montrose, where it was not their business to land, and so
they were obliged to come back to the frith, and were
gotten to the entrance of it, and came to an anchor for
the tide; but this delay or hindrance gave time to the
English, under Sir George Bing, to come to the frith,
and they came to an anchor just as we did, only waiting
to go up the frith with the flood.
Had we not overshot the port, as above, all our squad-
ron had been destroyed in two days, and all we could
have done had been to have gotten into the pier or
haven at Leith, with the smaller frigates, and have landed
the troops and ammunition; but we must have set fire to
the men-of-war, for the English squadron was not above
twenty-four hours behind us, or thereabout.
Upon this surprise the French admiral set sail from
the north point of the frith, where we lay, and, crowding
away to the north, got the start of the English fleet, and
made their escape, with the loss of one ship only, which,
being behind the rest, could not get away. When we
were satisfied the English left chasing us, which was not
till the third night, when we altered our course, and lost
sight of them, we stood over to the coast of Norway,
and, keeping that shore on board all the way to the mouth
of the Baltic, we came to an anchor again, and sent two
scouts abroad to learn news, to see if the sea was clear,
and, being satisfied that the enemy did not chase us, we
kept on with an easier sail, and came all back again to
Dunkirk. And glad I was to set my foot on shore again,
RETURNS TO VIRGINIA.
155
for all the while we were thus flying for our lives I was
under the greatest terror imaginable, and nothing but
halters and gibbets run in my head, concluding that if I
had been taken I should certainly have been hanged.
But the care was now over. I took my leave of the
chevalier, and of the army, and made haste home.
CHAPTER XII.
I RETURN TO VIRGINIA SAIL FOR ANTIGUA WE ARE
CHASED BY A BRIGANTINE AND SLOOP, PlilVATEERS —
DURING THE CHASE THEY DISCOVER AN ENGLISH MAN-
OF-WAR AND SHEER OFF ARRIVE SAFE AT ANTIGUA
TRANSACTIONS ON MY VOYAGE TO VIRGINIA.
I embarked for Virginia in the year , at the town
of Liverpool, and had a tolerable voyage thither, only
that we met with a pirate ship, in the latitude of 48
degrees, who plundered us of everything th y could come
at that was for their turn — that is to say, provisions,
ammunition, small arms, and money—but, to give the
rogues their due, though they were the most abandoned
wretches that were ever seen, they did not use us ill; and
as to my loss, it was not considerable. The cargo which
I had on board was in goods, and was of no use to them,
nor could they come at those things without rummaging
th! whole ship, which they did not think worth their
viiile.
I found all my affairs in very good order at Virginia.
My plantations prodigiously increased, and my manager,
who first inspired me with travelling thoughts, and made
me master of any knowledge worth naming, received me
with a transport of joy, after a ramble of four-and-
twenty years.
COLONEL JACK.
I ought to remember it, to the encouragement of all
faithful servants, that he gave ma an account, which, I
believe, was critically just, of the whole affairs of the
plantations, each by themselves, and balanced in years,
every year's produce being fully transmitted, charges
deducted, to my order at London.
I was exceedingly satisfied, as I had good reason,
indeed, with his management; and with his management,
as much in its degree, of his own, I can safely say it.
He had improved a very large plantation of his own at
the same time, which he began upon the foot of the
country's allowance of land, and the encouragement he
had from me.
I went over my plantations and his, and for some time
enjoyed the quiet of my own home, but I soon tired of
this very quiet, aud as one of my sloop3 was loading for
a voyage to Antigua, I resolved to go with her.
Accordingly, I embarked and put to sea, having the
opportunity of an English man-of-war, being on the
coast in pursuit of the pirates, and who was just then
standing away towards the Gulf of Florida, and told us
he would see us safe as far as New Providence, or the
Bahama Islands.
And now, having fair weather and a pleasant voyage,
I must hint a little what cargo I had wiuh me, for as my
circumstances were very good in that country, so I did
not go such a voyage as this, and with a particular
reserve of fortunes whatever might afterwards happen,
without a sufficient cargo for our support, and whatever
exigence might happen.
Our sloop was of about sixty or seventy tons; and as
tobacco, which is the general produce of the country, was
no merchandise at Nevis—that is to say, for a great quan-
tity— so we carried very little, but loaded the sloop with
CHASED BY PRIVATEERS.
157
corn, pease, meal, and some barrels of pork; and an
excellent cargo it was, most of it being the produce of
my own plantation. We took also a considerable sum of
money with us in Spanish gold, which was, as above, not
for trade, but for all events. I also ordered another sloop
to be hired, and to be sent after me, loaden with the
same goods, as soon as they should have advice from me
that I was safe arrived.
We came to the latitude of the Island of Antigua,
which was very near to that of Nevis, whither we
intended to go, on the eighteenth day after our passing the
Capes of Virginia, but had no sight of the island, only
our master said he was sure, if he stood the same course
as he then was, and the gale held—-I say he told me he
was sure he should make the island in less than five
hours' sail; so he stood on fair for the islands. How-
ever, his acc unt had failed him, for we held on all the
evening, mule no laud, and likewise all night, when, in
the grey of the morning, we discovered, from the top-
mast head, a brigautine and a sloop making sail after us,
at the distance of about six leagues, fair weather, and
the wind fresh at S. E.
Our master soon understood what they were, and came
down into the cabin to me, to let me know it.
While we were thus under the first hurry and surprise
of the thing, suddenly another noise from the deck called
us up to look out, and that was, Land! laud! The mas-
ter and I — for by this time I had gotten out of my cabin
— run upon the deck, and there we sawthe state of our
case very plain. The two rogues that stood after us laid
on all the canvas they could carry, and c.owded after us
amain, but at the distance, as I have said, of about six
leagues, rather more than less. On the other hand, the
land discovered lay about nine leagues right ahead, so
COLONEL JACK.
that if the pirates could gain on us so as to sail three
foot for our two, it was evident they would be up with
us before we could make the islands; if not, we should
escape them and get in; but even then we had no great
hope to do any more than to run the ship ashore to save
our lives, and so, stranding our vessel, spoil both sloop
and cargo.
When we were making this calculation our master
came in cheerfully, and told me he had crowded on more
sail and found the sloop carried it very well, and that he
did not find the rogues gained much upon us, and that
especially if one of them did not — that was the sloop —
he found he could go away from the brigantine as he
pleased. Thus we gave them what they call a stern chase,
and they worked hard to come up with us till towards
noon, when on a sudden they both stood away, and gave
us over, to our great satisfaction, you may be sure.
We did not, it seems, so easily see the occasion of our
deliverance as the pirate did, for while we went spooning
away large with the wind for one of the islands, with those
two spurs in our heels — that is, with the two thieves
at our sterns — there lay an Eng ish man-of-war in the
road of Nevis, which was the same island from whence
they espied the pirates, but the land lying between, we
could not see them.
As the man-of-war discovered them she immediately
slipped her cable, and put herself undi r sail in chase of
the rogues, and they as soon perceived her and, being
windward, put themselves upon a wind to escape her ; and
thus we were delivered, and in half an hour more we
knew who was our deliverer, seeing the man-of-war
stretch ahead clear of the island, and stand directly after
the pirates, who now crowded from us as fa-t as they
crowded after us before, and thus we got safe into
ESCAPES THE BRIGANTINE.
159
Antigua, after the terrible apprehension we had been in
of being taken. Our apprehensions of being taken now
were much more than they would have been on board a
loaden ship from or to London, where the most they
ordinarily do is to rifle the ship, take what is valuable
and portable, and let her go; but ours being but a sloop,
and all our loading being good provisions, such as they
wanted, to be sure, for their whip's store, they would
certainly have carried us away, ship and all, taken out
the cargo and the men, and perhaps have set the sloop
on fire, so that, as to our cargo of gold, it had been
inevitably lost, and we hurried away, nobody knows
where, and used as such baibarous fellows are wont to
use innocent people as fall into their hands.
But we were now out of their hands, and had the
satisfaction, a few days after, to hear that the man-of-
war pursued them so close, notwithstanding they changed
their course in the night, that the next day they were
obliged to separate, and shift for themselves; so the
man-of-war took one of them, namely, the brigantine,
and carried her into Jamaica, but the other, viz., the
sloop, made her escape.
Being arrived here, we presently disposed of our cargo,
and at a tolerable good price.
I now resolved to sail directly back to the capes of
Virginia. My captain, beating it up to reach the Bahama
channel, had not been two days at sea but we were over-
taken by a violent storm, which drove us so far upon the
coast of Florida as that we twice struck upon the shore,
and had we struck a third time we had been inevitably
lost. A day or two after that, the storm abating a little,
we kept the sea, but found the wind blowing so strong
against our passing the gulf, and the sea going so high, we
could not hold it any longer. So we were forced to bear
COLONEL JACK.
away, and make what shift we could, in which distress,
the fifth day after, we made land, but found it to be
Cape , the north-west part of the isle of Cuba.
Here we found ourselves under a necessity to run in
under the land for shelter, though we had not come to an
anchor, so we had not touched the King of Spain's
territories at all. However, in the morning, we were
surrounded with five Spanish barks, or boats, such as
they call Barco Longos, full of men, who instantly
boarded us, took us and carried us into Havana, the most
considerable port belonging to the Spaniards in that part
of the world.
Here the sloop was immediately seized, and in con-
sequence plundered, as any one that knows the Spaniards,
especially in that country, will easily guess. Our men
were made prisoners, and sent to the common gaol, and,
as for myself and the captain, we were carried before
the Alcade Major, or intendant of the place, as criminals.
I spoke Spanish very well, having served under the
King of Spain in Itnly, and it stood me in good stead at
this time, for I so effectually argued the injustice of their
treatment of me that the governor, or what I ought to
call him, frankly owned they ought not to have stopped
me, seeing I was in the open sea, pursuing my voyage,
and offered no offence to anybody, and had not landed, or
offered to land, upon any part of his Catholic Majesty's
dominions, till I was brought as a prisoner.
It was a great favor that I could obtain thus much;
but I found it easier to obtain an acknowledgment that I
had received wrong than to get any satisfaction for that
wrong, and much less was there any hope or prospect of
restitution; and I was let know that I was to wait till an
account could be sent to the Viceroy of Mexico, and orders
could be received back from him how to act in the affair.
SLOOP SEIZED BY THE SPANIARDS.
161
I could easily foresee what all this tended to, namely:
to a confiscation of the ship and goods, by the ordinary
process at the place, and that my being left to the
decision of the Viceroy of Mexico was but a pretended
representation of things to him from the corregidore, or
judge, of the place.
However, I had no remedy but the old insignificant
thing called patience, and this I was better furnished
with because I did not so much value the loss as I made
them believe I did. My greatest apprehensions were
that they would detain me, and keep me as a prisoner for
life, and perhaps send me to their mines in Peru, as they
have done many, and pretended to do to all that come on
shore in their dominions, how great soever the distresses
may have been which have brought them thither, and
which has been the reason why others, who have bet n
forced on shore, have committed all manner of violence
upon the Spaniards in their turn, resolving, however dear
they sold their lives, not to fall into their hands.
But I got better quarter among them than that, too,
which was, as I have said, much of it, owing to my
speaking Spanish, and to my telling them how I had
fought in so many occasions in the quarrel of His Catholic
Majesty in Italy; and, by great good chance, I had the
King of France's commission for lieutenant-colonel in the
Irish brigade in my pocket, where it was mentioned that
the said brigade was then serving in the armies of
France, under the orders of His Catholic Majesty, in
Italy.
I failed not to talk up the gallantry and personal
bravery of His Catholic Majesty on all occasions, and
particular in many battles, where, by the way, His Majesty
had never been at all, and in some where I had never
been myself; but I fv.und I talked to people who knew
COLONEL JACK.
nothing of the matter, and so anything went down with
lhem, if it did but praise the King of Spain, and talk big
of the Spanish cavalry, of which, God knows, there was
not one regiment in the army, at least while I was there.
However, this way of managing rayae'f obtained me
the liberty of the place, upon my parole that I would
not attempt an escape, and I obtained also, which was a
great favor, to have two hundred pieces of eight allowed
me out of the sale of my cargo, for subsistence, till I
could negotiate my affairs at Mexico. As for my men
they were maintained as prisoners, at the public charge.
Well, after several months' solicitation and attendance,
all I could obtain was the satisfac tion of seeing my ship
and cargo confiscated, and my poor sailors in a fair way
to be sent to the mines. The last I begged off, upon
co: dition of paying three hundred pieces of eight for
their ransom, and having them set on shore at Antigua,
and myself to remain hostage for the payment of the
said three hundred pieces of eight, and for two hundred
pieces of eight, which I had already had, and for five
hundred pieces of eight more for my own ransom, if, upon
a return from Mexico, the sentence of confiscation, as
above, should be confirmed by the viceroy.
These were hard articles, indeed, but I was forced to
s-ubmit to them, nor, as my circumstances were above all
such matters as these, as to substance, did I lay it much
to heart. The greatest difficulty that lay in my way was
that I knew not how to correspond with my friends in
any part of the world, or which way to supply myself
with necessaries, or with money for the payment I had
agreed to, the Spaniards being so tenacious of their
ports that they allowed nobody to come on shore, or,
indeed, near the shore, from any part of the world, upon
pain of seizure and confiscation, as had been my case
SEVERITY OF SPANISH LAWS.
163
already. Upon this difficulty I began to reason with the
corregidore, and tell him that he put things upon us that
were impossible, and that were inconsistent with the
customs of nations; that if a man was a prisoner :it
Algiers they would allow him to write to his friends to
pay his ransom, and would admit the person that brought
it to come-and go free, as a public person, and, if they
did not, no treaty could be carried on for the ransom of
a slave, nor the conditions be performed when they are
agreed upon.
I brought it then down to my own case, and desired to
know, upon supposition that I might, within the time
limited in that agreement, have the sums of money ready
for the ransom of my men and of myself, how 1 should
obtain to have notice given me of it, or how it should
be brought, seeing the very persons bringing that notice,
or afterwards presuming to bring the money, might be
liable to be seized and confiscated, as I had been, and
the money itself be taken as a second prize, without
redeeming the first.
Though this was so reasonable a request that it could
not be withstood in point of argument, yet the Spaniard
shrunk his head into his shoulders, and said they had not
power sufficient to act in such a case; that Ihe king's
laws were so severe against the suffering any strangers
to set their foot on His Catholic Majesty's dominions in
America, and they could not dispense with the least tittle
of them without a particular assiento, as they called it,
from the consulado, or chamber of commerce, at Seville,
or a command under the hand and seal of the Viceroy of
Mexico.
How! signor corregidore, said I, with some warmth,
and, as it were, with astonishment, have yon not authority
enough to sign a passport for an agent, or ambassador,
COLONEL JACK.
to come on shore here from any of the King of Great
Britain's governors in these parts, under a white flag, or
flag of truce, to speak with the governor of this place, or
with any other person in the king's name, on the subject
of such business as the governor may have to com-
municate? Why, said I, if you cannot do that you can-
not act according to the law of nations.
He shook his head, but still said, No, he could not do
even so much as that; but here one of the military gov-
ernors put in and opposed him, and they two differed
warmly, the first insisting that their orders were deficient
in that particular, but the other said that, as they were
bound up to them, it could not be in their power to act
otherwise, and that they were answerable for the ill
conseqiif uces.
Well, then, says the governor to the corregidore, now
you have kept this Englishman as hostage for the ransom
of the men that you have dismissed, suppose he tells you
the money is ready, either at such, or such, or such a
place, how shall he bring it hither? You will take all the
people prisoners that offer to bring it. What must he
do? If you say you will send and fetch it, what security
shall he have that he shall have his liberty when it is
paid you? And why should he trust you so far as to pay
the money, and yet remain here a prisoner?
This carried so much reason with it that the cor-
regidore knew not what to say, but that so was the law,
and he could act no otherwise but by the very letter of
it, and here each was so positive that nothing could deter-
mine it but another express to be sent to the Viceroy of
Mexico.
Upon this the governor was so kind as to say he
would get me a passport for anybody that should bring
the money, and any vessel they were in, by his own
NEGOTIATES WITH THE SPANIARDS.
165
authority, and for their safe returning, and taking me
with them, provided I would answer for it that they
should bring no European or other goods whatever with
them, and should not set foot on shore without his
express permission, and provided he did not receive
orders to the contrary, in the meantime, from any
superior hand; and that even in such a case they should
have liberty to go back freely from whence they came,
under the protection of a white flag.
I bowed very respectfully to the governor, in token of
my acknowledging his justice, and then presented my
humble petition to him that he would allow my men to
take their own sloop; that it should be rated at a certain
value, and would be obliged they should bring specie on
board with them, and that they should either pay it for
the sloop or leave the sloop again.
Then he inquired to what country he would send them
for so much money, and if I could assure him of the
payment; and, when he understood it was no farther
than to Virginia, he seemed very easy, and, to satisfy
the corregidore, who still stood off, adhering, with a true
Spanish stiffness, to the letter of the law, the said
governor calls out to me. Signor, says he, I shall
make all this matter easy to you, if you agree to my
proposal. Your men shall h ive the sloop, on condition
you shall be my hostage for her return; but they shall
not take her as your sloop, though she shall in the effect
be yours, on the payment of the money; but you shall
take two of my men on board with you, upon your
parole for their safe return, and when she returns she
shall carry His Catholic Majesty's colors, and be entered
as one of the sloops belonging to the Havana, one of
the Spaniards to be commander, and to be called by such
name as he shall appoint.
COLONEL JACK.
This the corregidore came into immediately, and said
this was within the letter of the king's comrnandery, or
precept, upon condition, however, that she should bring
no European goods on board. I desired it might be put
in other words, namely : that she should bring no European
goods on shore. It cost two days' debate between these
two, whether it should pass that no European goods
should be brought in the ship or brought on shore, but
having found means to intimate that I meant not to
trade there, but would not be tied from bringing a small
present to a certain person, in acknowledgment of
favors — I say, after I had found room to place such a
hint right where it should be placed, I found it was all
made easy to me, and it was all agreed presently that,
after the ransom was paid, and the ship also bought, it
was but reasonable that I should h ive liberty to trade to
any other country not in the dominions of the King of
Spain, so to make up my losses, and that it would be
hard to oblige my men to bring away the vessel light,
and so lose the voyage, and add so much to our former
misfortunes; that, so long as no goods were brought on
shore in the country belonging to His Catholic Majesty's
dominions, which was all that they had to defend, the
rest was no business of theirs.
Now I began to see iny way through this unhappy
business, and to find that as money would bring me out
of it, so money would bring it to turn to a good account
another way. Wherefore I sent the sloop away under
Spanish colors, and called her the Nueslra Signora de la
Val de Grace, commanded by Signor Giraldo de Nesma,
one of the two Spaniards.
With the slo;;p I sent letters to my chief manager
with o-ders to load her back. I there directed, viz., that
she should have two hundred barrels of flour, fifty bar-
SENDS HIS SLOOP TO VIRGINIA.
167
rpls of pease, and, to answer my other views I ordered a
hundred bales to be made up of all sorts of European
goods, such as not my own warehouses only would sup-
ply, but such as they could be supplied with in other
warehouses, where I knew they had credit for anything.
In this cargo I directed all the richest and most
valuable English goods they had, or could get, whether
linen, woollen, or silk, to be made up. The coarser
things, such as we use in Virginia for clothing of ser-
vants, such I ordered to be left behind, for the use of the
plantation. In less than seven weeks' time the sloop
returned, and I, that failed not every day to look out for
her on the strand, was the first that spied her at sea at a
distance, and knew her by her sails, but afterwards more
particularly by her signals.
When she returned she came into the road with her
Spanish ancient flying, and came to an anchor, as
directed; but I, that had seen her some hours before,
went directly to the governor, and gave him an account
of her being come, and fain I would have obtained the
favor to have his excellency, as I called him, go on board
in person, that he might see how well his orders were
executed; but he declined that, saying he could not
justify going off the island, which was, in short, to go
out of his command of the fort, which he could nof,
reassume without a new commission from the king's own
hand.
Then I asked leave to go on board myself, which he
granted me, and I brought on shore with me the full sum
in gold which I had conditioned to pay for the ransom,
both of my men and myself, and for the purchase of the
sloop; and as I obtained leave to land in a different place
so my governor sent his son, with six soldiers, to receive
and convey me with the money to the castle where he
commanded, and therein to his own house. I had made
up the money in heavy parcels, as if it had been all
silver, and gave it to two of my men, who belonged to
the sloop, with orders to them that they should make it
seem, by their carrying it, to be much heavier than it
was. This was done to conceal three parcels of goods,
which I had packed up with the money, to make a
present to the governor, as I intended.
When the money was carried in, and laid down on a
table, the governor ordered my men to withdraw, and I
gave the soldiers each of them a piece of eight to drink,
for which they were very thankful, and the governor
seemed very well pleased with it, also. Then I asked
him, presently, if he would please to receive the money.
He said, No, he would not receive it but in presence of
the corregidore, and the other people concerned. Then I
begged his excellency, as I called him, to give me leave
to open the parcels in his presence, for that I would do
myself the honor to acknowledge his favors in the best
manner I could.
He told me no, he could not see anything be brought
on shore but the money, but if I had brought anything
on shore for my own use he would not be so strict as to
inquire into that, so I might do what I pleased myself.
Upon that I went into the place, shut myself in, and,
having opened all the things, placed them to my mind.
There was five little parcels, as follows:
1,2. A piece of twenty yards fine English broad-
cloth; five yards of black, five yards of crimson, in one
parcel, and the rest, of fine mixtures, in another parcel.
3. A piece of thirty ells of fine Holland linen.
4. A piece of eighteen yards of fine English brocaded
silk.
5. A piece of black Colchester bays.
A PRESENT INTENDED FOR THE GOVERNOR. 169
After I had placed these by themselves I found means,
with some seeming difficulties, and much grimace, to
bring him to know that this was intended for a present to
himself. After all that part was over, and he had seemed
to accept them, he signified, after walking a hundred
turns and more in the room by them, by throwing his hat,
which was under his arm, upon them, and making a very
stiff bow — I say, after this he seemed to take his leave
of me for a while, and I waited in an outer room. When
I was called in again I found that he had looked over
all the particulars, and caused them to be removed out of
the place.
But when I came again I found him quite another
man. He thanked me for my present; told me it was a
present fit to be given to a Viceroy of Mexico, rather
than to a mere governor of a fort; that he had done me
no services suitable to such a return, but that he would
see if he could not oblige me farther before I left the
place.
After our compliments were over I obtained leave to
have the corregidore sent for, who accordingly came, and
in his presence the money stipulated for the ransom of
the ship and of the men was paid.
But here the corregidore showed that he would be as
severely just on my side as on theirs, for he would not
admit the money as a ransom for us as prisoners, but as
a deposit for so much as we were to be ransomed for, if
the sentence of our being made prisoners should be
confirmed.
And then the governor and corregidore, joining together,
sent a representation of the whole affair — at least we were
told so — to the Viceroy of Mexico, and it was privately
hinted to me that I would do well to stay for the return
of the aviso—that is, a boat which they send over the bay
COLONEL JACK.
to Vera Cruz, with an express to Mexico, whose return
is generally performed in two months.
I was not unwilling to stay, having secret hints given
me that I should find some way to go with my sloop
towards Vera Cruz myself, where I might have an
occasion to trade privately for the cargo which I had on
board but it came about a nearer way, for about two
days after this money being deposited, as above, the
governor's son invited himself on board my sloop, where
I to'd him I would be very glad to see him, and whither,
at the same time, he brought with him three considerable
merchants, Spaniards, two of them not inhabitants of
the place.
When they were on board they were very merry and
pleasant, and I treated them so much to their satisfaction
that, in short, they were not well able to go on shore for
that night, but were content to take a nap on some
carpets, which I caused to be spread for them, and, that
the governor's son might think himself well used, I
brought him a very good silk nightgown, with a crimson
velvet cap, to lie down in, and in the morning desired him
to accept of them for his use, which he took very kindly.
During that merry evening one of the merchants, not
so touched with drink as the young gentleman, nor so as
not to mind what it was he came about, takes an occasion
to withdraw out of the great cabin and enter into a par-
ley with the master of the sloop, in order to trade for
what European goods we had on board. The master
took the hint and gave me notice of what had passed,
and I gave him instructions what to say, and what to do,
according to which instructions they made but few
words, bought the goods for about five thousand pieces
of eight, and carried them away themselves, and at their
own hazards.
SELL MY CARGO TO SPANIARDS.
171
This was very agreeable to me, for now I began to see
I should lick myself whole by the sale of this cargo,
and should make myself full amends of Jack Spaniard
for all the injuries he had done me in the first of these
things. With this view I gave my master or captain of
the sloop instructions for sale of all the rest of the goods,
and left him to manage by himself, which he did so well
that he sold the whole cargo the next day to the three
Spaniards, with this additional circumstance, that they
desired the sloop might carry the goods, as they were on
board, to such part of the terra firma as they should
appoint, between the Honduras and the coast of La Vera
Cruz.
It was difficult for me to make good this part of the
bargain, but, finding the price agreed for would very well
answer the voyage, I consented, hut then how to send
the sloop away, and remain among the Spaniards, when T
was now a clear man — this was a difficulty, too, as it was
also to go away, and not wait for a favorable answer
from the Viceroy of Mexico to the representation of the
governor and the corregidore. However, at last I
resolved to go in the sloop, fall out what would, so I
went to the governor and represented to him that, being
now to expect a favorable answer from Mexico, it would
be a great loss to me to keep the sloop there all the
while, and I desired his leave for me to go with the sloop
to Antigua, to sell and dispose of the cargo, which he
well knew I was obliged not to bring on shore there at
the Havana, and which would be in danger of being
spoiled by lying so long on board.
This I obtained readily, with license to come again into
the road, and for myself only to come on shore, in
order to hear the Viceroy's pleasure in my case, which
was depending.
COLONEL JACK.
CHAPTER XIII.
I MAKE A VERY PROFITABLE VOYAGE I FIT DP MY
SLOOP FOR DEFENCE, AND SAIL AGAIN FOR THE WEST
INDIES — AFTER VARIOUS CHANGES OF FORTUNE I RETURN
TO ENGLAND WEALTHY CONCLUSION.
Having thus obtained a license or passport for the
sloop and myself, I put to sea with the three Spanish
merchants on board with me. They told me they did not
live at the Havana, but it seems one of them did, and some
rich merchants of the Havana, or of the parts there-
abouts in the same island, were concerned with them, for
they brought on board, the night we put to sea, a great
sum of money in pieces of eight, and, as I understood
afterwards, that these merchants bought the cargo of
me, and, though they gave me a very great price for
everything, yet that they sold them again to the mer-
chants, who they procured on the coast of La Vera Cruz,
at a prodigious advantage, so that they got above a
hundred per cent, after I had gained very sufficiently
before.
We sailed from the Havana directly for Vera Cruz.
I scrupled venturing into the port at first, and was very
uneasy, lest I should have another Spanish trick put
upon me; but as we sailed under Spanish colors, they
showed us such authentic papers from the proper officers
that there was no room to fear anything.
However, when we came in sight of the Spanish coast
I found they had a secret clandestine trade to carry on,
which, though it was secret, yet they knew the way of it
so well that it was but a mere road to them. The case
was this, we stood in close under the shore in the night,
A VERY PROFITABLE VOYAGE.
173
about six leagues to the north of the port, where two of
the three merchants went on shore in the boat, and in
three hours or thereabouts they came on board again with
five canoes, and seven or eight merchants more with
them, and as soon as they were on board we stood off to
sea, so that by daylight we were quite out of sight of
land.
I ought to have mentioned before that as soon as we
were put to sea from the Havana, and duiing our voyage
into the Gulf of Mexico, which was eight days, we
rummaged the whole cargo, and opening every bale, as
far as the Spanish merchants desired, we trafficked with
them for the whole cargo, except the barrels of flour
and pease.
This cargo was considerable in itself, for the invoice,
drawn out by my tutor and manager, amounted to 2684L
10s., and I sold the whole, including what had been sold
in the evening, when they were on board first, as I have
said, for thirty-eight thousand five hundred and ninety-
three pieces of eight, and they allowed me twelve hun-
dred pieces of eight for the freight of the sloop, and
made my master and the seamen very handsome pr sents
besides, and they were well able to do this, too, as you
shall hear presently.
After we were gotten out of sight of land, the
Spaniards fell to their traffic, and our three merchants
opened their shop, as they might say, for it was their
shop; as to me, I had nothing to do with it, or with their
goods. They drove their bargain in a few hours, and at
night we stood in again for the shore, when the five
canoes carried a great part of the goods on shore, and
brought the money back in specie, as well for that they
carried as for all the rest, and at their second voyage
carried all away clear, leaving me nothing on board but
COLONEL JACK.
my barrels of flour and pease, which they bade me money
for, too, but not so much as I expected.
Here I found that my Spanish merchants made above
seventy thousand pieces of eight of the cargo I had sold
them, upon which I had a great mind to be acquainted
with those merchants on the terra firma, who were the
last customers, for it presently occurred to me that I
could easily go with a sloop fiom Virginia, and taking a
cargo directed on purpose from England, of about 5000Z.
or 6000L, I might easily make four of one. With this
view I began to make a kind of an acquaintance with the
Spaniards which came in the canoes, and we became so
intimate that at last, with the consent of the three
Spaniards of the Havana, I accepted an invitation on
shore to their house, which was a little villa, or rather
plantation, where they had an ingenio — that is to say, a
sugar-house, or sugar-work, and there they treated us
like princes.
I took occasion at this invitation to say that, if I knew
how to find my way thither again, I could visit them once
or twice a year, very much to their advantage and mine,
too. One of the Spaniards took the hint, and taking me
into a room by myself, Siguior, says he, if you have any
thoughts of coming to this place again I shall give you
such directions as you shall be sure not to mistake, and,
upon either coming on shore in the night, and coming up
to this place, or upon making the signals which we shall
give you, we will not fail to come off to you, and bring
money enough for any cargaison, so they call it, that you
shall bring.
I took all their directions, took their paroles of honor
for my safety, and, without taking any notice to my first
three merchants, laid up the rest in my most secret
thoughts, resolving to visit them again in as short a time
175
as I could, and thus having, in about five days, finished
all our merchandizing, we stood off to sea, and made for
the island of Cuba, where I set my three Spaniards on
shore with all their treasure, to their heart's content, and
made the best of my way to Antigua, where, with all the
despatch I could, I sold my two hundred barrels of flour,
which, however, had suffered a little by the length of the
voyage, and having laden the sloop with rum, molasses,
and sugar, I set sail again for the Havana.
I was now uneasy, indeed, for fear of the pirates, for
I was a rich ship, having, besides goods, near forty
thousand pieces of eight in silver.
When I came back to the Havana, I went on shore to
wait on the governor and the corregidore, and to hear
what return was had from the Viceroy, and had the good
fortune to know that the Viceroy had disallowed that
part of the sentence which condemned us as prisoners
and put a ransom on us, which he insisted could not be
but in time of open war, but as to the confiscation, he
deferred it to the chamber or council of commerce at
Seville, and the appeal to the king, if such be preferred.
This was, in some measure, a very good piece of
justice in the Viceroy, for, as we had not buen on shore,
we could not be legally imprisoned, and for the rest,
I believe if I would have given myself the trouble to
have gone to Old Spain, and have preferred my claim
to both the ship and the cargo, I had recovered them
also.
However, as it was, I was now a free man without
ransom, and my men were also free, so that all the
money which I had deposited, as above, was returned
me, and thus 1 took my leave of the Havana, and made
the best of my way for Virginia, where I arrived after a
year and a half's absence, and, notwithstanding all my
COLONEL JACK.
losses, came home above forty thousand pieces of eight
richer than I went out.
I had now my head full of my West India project, and
I began to make provision for it accordingly; I had a
full account of what European goods were most accept-
able in New Spain, and, to add to my speed, I knew that
the Spaniards were in great want of European goods, the
galleons from Old Spain having been delayed to an
unusually length of time for the two years before.
Upon this account, not having time, as I thought, to
send to England for a cargo of such goods as were most
proper, I resolved to load my sloop with tobacco and
rum, the last I brought from Antigua, and go away to
Boston in New England, and to New York, and see if I
could pick up a cargo to my mind.
Accordingly, I took twenty thousand pieces of eight in
money, and my sloop laden as above, we went away. It
was an odd and new thing at New England to have such
a quantity of goods bought up there by a sloop from
Virginia, and especially to be paid for in ready money,
as I did for most of my goods, and this set all the trad-
ing heads upon the si retch to inquire what and who I
was, to which they had an immediate and direct answer,
that I was a very considerable planter in Virginia, and
that was all any of my men on board the sloop could tell
of me, and enough, too.
Well, it was the cause of much speculation among
them, as I heard at second and third hands. Some said,
he is certainly going to Jamaica, others said, he is going
to trade with the Spaniards, others, that he is going to
the South Sea and turn half merchant, half pirate, on
the coast of Chili and Peru; some one thing, some
another, as the men gossips found their imaginations
directed; but we went on with our business, and laid out
FITS UP HIS SLOOP FOR DEFENCE.
177
twelve thousand pieces of eight, besides our cargo of
rum and tobacco, and went from thence to New York,
where we laid out the rest.
The chief of the cargo we bought here was fine
English broadcloth, serges, druggets, Norwich stuffs,
bays, says, and all kinds of woollen manufactures, as
also linen of all sorts, a very great quantity, and near
1000L in fine silks of several sorts.
Being thus freighted, I came back safe to Virginia,
and with very little addition to my cargo, began to
prepare for my West India voyage.
I should have mentioned that I had built upon my
sloop, and raised her a little, so that I had made her
carry twelve guns, and fitted her up for defence, for I
thought she should not be attacked and boarded by a few
Spanish barco longos, as she was before, and I found the
benefit of it afterwards, as you shall hear.
We set sail the beginning of August, and as I had
twice been attacked by pirates in passing the gulf of
Florida, or among the Bahama islands, I resolved, though
it was farther about, to stand off to sea, and so keep, as
I believed it would be, out of the way of them.
We passed the tropic, as near as we could guess, just
where the famous Sir William Phipps fished up the silver
from the Spanish plate wreck, and, standing in between
the islands, kept our course W. by S., keeping under the
isle of Cuba, and so running away, trade, as they call it,
into the great Gulf of Mexico, leaving the island of
Jamaica to the S. and S. E., by this means avoiding, as I
thought, all the Spaniards of Cuba, or the Havana.
As we passed the west point of Cuba, three Spanish
boats came off to board us, as they had done before, on
the other side of the island, but they found themselves
mistaken; we were too many for them, for we run out
COLONEL JACK.
our gUns, which they did not perceive before, and, firing
three or four shot at them, they retired.
We met with no other adventure worth naming, till, by
the same course that we had steered before, we came into
the Gulf of Mexico, and the first misfortune we met with
here was, that, on the back of Cuba, crossing towards
the point of the terra lirma, on the coast of Jucatan,
we had sight of the flota of New Spain, that is, of
the ships which come from Carthagena or Porto Bello,
and go to the Havana, in order to pursue their voyage to
Europe.
They had with them one Spanish man-of-war and three
frigates; two of the frigates gave us chase, but, it being
just at the shutting in of the day, we soon lost sight of
them, and, standing to the north, across the bay of
Mexico, as if we were going to the mouth of the Missis-
sippi, they lost us quite, and, in a few days more, we
made the bottom of the bay, being the port we were
bound for.
We stood in in the night, and gave notice to our
friends, but, instead of their former readiness to come on
board, they gave us notice that we had been seen in the
bay, and that notice of us was given at Vera Cruz, and
at other places, and that several frigates were in quest of
us, and that three more would be cruising the next morn-
ing in search for us.
We could not conceive how this could be, but we wtre
afterwards told that those three frigates, having lost
sight of us in the night, had made in for the shore, and
had given the alarm of us as of privateers.
Be that as it would, we had nothing to do but to con-
sider what course to take immediately. The Spanish
merchants' advice was very good if we had taken it,
namely, to have unladen as many of our bales as we
MY SLOOP CHASliD BY TWO SPANISH FRIGATES. 179
could that very night by the help of our boat and their
canoes, and to make the best of our way in the morning
to the north of the gulf, and take cur fate.
This my skipper, or master, thought very well of, but
when we began to put it into execution we were so con-
fused, and in such a hurry, being not resolved what
course to take, that we could not get out above sixteen
bales of all sorts of goods before it began to be too
light, and it behooved us to sail. At last the master pro-
posed a medinm, which was, that I should go on shore in
the next boat, in which were five bales of goods more,
and that I should stay on shore, if the Spanish merchants
would undertake to conceal me, and let them go to sea
»ud take their chance.
The Spanish merchants readily undertook to protect
me, especially it being so easy to have me pass for a
natural Spaniard, and so they took me on shore with
twenty-one bales of my goods, and the sloop stood off to
sea. If they met with any enemies, they were to stand
in for the shore the next night, and we failed not to look
well out for them, but to no purpose, for the next day
they were discovered and chased by two Spanish frigates;
they stood from them, and the sloop, being an excellent
sailer, gained so much that they would certainly have
been clear of them when night came on, but a small
picaroon of a sloop kept thein company in spite of all
they could do, and two or three times offered to engage
them, thereby to give time to the rest to come up, but
the sloop kept her way, and gave them a chase of three
days and nights, having a fresh gale of wind at S.W. till
she made the Rio Grand, or, as the French call it, the
Mississippi, and there, finding no remedy, they ran the
vessel on shore, not far from the fort which the Spaniards
call Pensacola, garrisoned at that time with French. Our
COLONEL JACK.
men would have entered the river as a port, but, having
no pilot, and the current of the river being strong against
them, the sloop ran on shore, and the men shifted as well
as they could in their boats.
I was now in a very odd condition, indeed, though my
circumstances were in one sense very happy, namely, that
I was in the hands of my friends, for such really they
were, and so faithful that no men could have been more
careful of their own safety than were they of mine, and
that which added to the comfort of my new condition
was the produce of my goods, which were gotten on
shore by their own advice and direction, which was a
fund sufficient to maintain me with them as long as I
could be supposed to stay there, and the first merchant to
whose house I went assured me that he would give me
credit for twenty thousand pieces of eight, if I had
occasion for it.
Here my patron, the merchant, entertained me like a
prince; he made my safety his peculiar care, and while
we were in any expectation of the sloop being taken, and
brought into Vera Cruz, he kept me retired at a little
house in a wood, where he kept a fine aviary of all sorts
of American birds, and out of which he yearly sent some
as presents to his friends in Old Spain.
I had here now a most happy and comfortable retreat,
though it was a kind of an exile. Here I wrote these
memoirs, having to add to the pleasure of looking back
with due reflections the benefit of a violent fit of the
gout, which, as it is allowed by most people, clears the
head, restores the memory, and qualifies us to make the
most, and just, and useful remarks upon our own actions.
Perhaps when I wrote these things down I did not
foresee that the writings of our own stories would be so
much the fashion in England, or so agreeable to others to
GOES TO LONDON.
181
read, as I find custom and the humor of the times has
caused it to be.
I have only to add to what was then written that my
kind friends, the Spaniards, finding no other method
presented for conveying me to my home — that is to say,
to Virginia — got a license for me to come in the next
galleons, as a Spanish merchant to Cadiz, where I arrived
safe with all my treasure, for he suffered me to be at no
expenses in his house, and from Cadiz I soon got my
passage on board an English merchant-ship for London,
whence I expect to sail on further adventures, leaving
with full satisfaction the management of all my affairs in
Virginia in the same faithful hands as before.
END OF THE LIFE OF COLONEL JACK.
Lend a Hand Monthly,
A JOURNAL OF ORGANIZED PHILANTHROPY.
EDWARD E. HALE, D.D., Editor.
JOHN STXLMAN SMITH, Manager.
This Journal has been established by the persons interested in organbec
philanthropy in Boston, New York, Brooklyn, Philadelphia, Pittsburg, Balti-
more, Washington, Chicago, and other cities. Their wish is to make ft
monthly magazine of the first class, which may meet the need of all persons
of public spirit in all parts of the United States.
For the Wadsworth Clubs, or any of the orders using the Wadsworth
Motto, we have the following: —
TEN TIMES ONE IS TEN CLUBS AND LEND A HASI)
CLUBS. How to Begin. By Edward E. Hale, D.D. Paper, 16
cents; cloth, 25 cents.
HARRY WADSWORTH'S MOTTO:
We now have this lithographed in handsome form for club-rooms and
Sunday-school rooms. Size, 19 x 24 in. 40 cents.
HOME TEXTS FOR SUNDAY SCHOOLS. Size 14 x 22 inches.
Thirty sheets in each roll. These texts are printed in large capitals on fine
paper. $1.15.
LEND A HAND PLEDGE CARDS. 25 cents per dozen; $1.25
per hundred.
BADGES OR MALTESE CROSSES.
I. H. N. Charms, silver-plated, 25 cents; 52.75 per dozen,
I. H. N. Pins, silver-plated; 25 cents; $2.75 per dozen.
Same styles in coin silver, 50 cents each; $5.40 per dozen.
M IN HIS NAME."
Look up and not down,
Look forward and not 1
Look out and not in,
And Lend a Hand.

J, STILMAN SMITH & CO.,
3 Hamilton Place,
BOSTON, MASS
