
ROBINSON CRUSOE 

by Daniel Defoe 


WALDEN 

by Henry David Thoreau 

Meditations of 

MARCUS AURELIUS 

OEDIPUS THE KING 

by Sophocles 
and 

THE FURNISHED ROOM by O. Henry 
John Donne PREACHES HIS last sermon 
Emile Zola’s “j’accuse” 



CLASSICS Appreciation society 

CONDENSATIONS 


1910 BY GROLIER INCORPORATED. 
Classics Appreciation Society * A Division of Grolier Incorporated. 


Printed in U.SA 




PAGE 


ROBINSON CRUSOE by Daniel Dejoe . 1 

THE FURNISHED ROOM by 0. Hemy 185 

WALDEN by Henry David Thoreau 199 

“J’ACCUSE” by Emile Zola 327 

MEDITATIONS OF MARCUS AURELIUS 337 

John Donne PREACHES HS LAST SERMON 441 

OEDIPUS THE KING by Sophocles 461 

FURTHER READING 531 


Each Home Course Appreciation precedes its work. 






ROBINSON 


CRUSOE 


by 

Daniel Defoe 



Note: The editor^ s summaries of various omitted passages 
appear italicized and in brackets throughout the text. 




r HOME COURSE APPRECIATION 


T he full title of the book we know as Robinson Crusoe 
is a literary curiosity. Daniel Defoe called it The Life and 
Strange Surprising Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, of York, 
Mariner: Who Uved Eight and Twenty Years aU alone in an unin- 
habited Island on the Coast of America, near the Mouth of the Great 
Oroonoque; Having been cast on Shore by Shipwreck, wherein all the 
Men perished but himself. With an Account how he was at last as 
strangely deliver'd by Pirates. Written by himself. 

In his reader-enticing title Defoe outlined one of the world’s 
great entertainments, a story that has held the attention of young and 
old since it was first published more than two centuries ago. Robinson 
Crusoe is sometimes classified as a boy’s book, and it is true that 
it is a favorite with most boys, but it is above aU an absorbing 
adventure tale and was written for and has held its adult audience. 
What reader will ever forget the tense and exciting moment when 
Crusoe finds the footprint in the sand, or the picture of Crusoe seated 
under his homemade umbrella, surrounded by cats, goats and dog, 
and talking to Poll his parrot? ’’Man Friday” has come into the 
language as a term for a faithful assistant and a “Robinson” is rec- 
ognized as a castaway. Robinson Crusoe was an immediate success, 
and it has never lost favor. 

The man who wrote Robinson Crusoe in 1719, when he was al- 
most sixty, was one of the most prolific authors who ever lived. Ap- 
proximately three hundred works, novels, poems, histories and pam- 
phlets on religion, politics, economics and so forth, are attributed to 
Daniel Defoe. His life was a long stoty of intrigue, imprisonment, 
ingenuity, courage and bard work. In some ways he was a most un- 
likely candidate for the honor of being one of the founders of the 
Eng^sh novel. Yet that is exactly what Defoe became when he 
published Robinson Crusoe. 

He was bom Daniel Foe in 1660, the year Qiarles II was re- 
stored to the throne of En^and. Ifis father Jamet);^|F^ (Dmid 

3 



Daniel Defoe, after an en- 
graving by Van de Gucht. 



added the “De” some years later), a butcher of St. Giles, Cripple- 
gate in London, was a Non-Conformist and he brought up his chil- 
dren as ardent dissenters. Daniel studied theology at school, as he 
intended to enter the ministry. But during the Restoration the life 
of a dissenting clergyman was indeed uncertain, and Defoe, who was 
also ambitious, felt that God’s work could be done in other ways. 

He received an excellent education at the Reverend Charles Mor- 
ton’s school for dissenters in Newington Green. There he learned 
modem languages, mathematics, history and geography, as weU as a 
great deal about conunercial procedures. Defoe did not attend a 
imiversity and we next hear of him engaged in bu^ess. He took 
some part in the Duke of Monmouth’s unsuccessful rebellion against 
James n in 1685. Many of his schoolmates lost their Uves in that 

4 


adventure-some at the hands of Judge Jefferys, the “han^g judge" 
who became notorious for die vengeance he wreaked upon the de- 
feated rebels. 

In 1688 Defoe went forth with the liverymen of London to wel- 
come William of Orange and Queen Mary to London. He had in 
the meantime become a wholesaler of hosiery and appears also to 
have been in the export-import trade. British trade with the Con- 
tinent was seriously disrupted in 1689 when war broke out with 
France, and in 1692 Defoe was forced to declare himself 'bankrupt. 
He made every effort to satisfy his creditors and eventually paid off 
his heavy indebtedness of £17,000. For some time he operated a 
brick and tile factory in Tilsbury but that venture failed when he 
was imprisoned in 1703. 

A BUSINESSMAN TURNED JOURNALIST 

TT WAS ABOUT 1697 that Defoe found his true vocation of journalist. 

In that year he published An Essay on Projects in which he sug- 
gested a number of reforms (perhaps as a result of his own business 
misfortunes) in the credit system and proposed a national bank, 
savings banks and a series of innovations in education that strike 
the twentieth-century reader as startlingly modem. Defoe was a 
staunch supporter of King William and devoted his considerable 
talents to championing that monarch and the foreign policies of the 
government, ids major effort in defense of his king was the satirical 
poem “The True-Born Englishman” (1701), an answer to those 
critics who attacked King William because he had been bora in 
Holland. The poem, a rou^, rollicking satire, posed the question, 
who is a true-born Englishman? and came to the conclusion that 
the En^sh must be classed as mongrels, since they were an admixture 
of French, Saxons, Romans, Normans and Norse. “The True-Born 
Englishman” was tremendously popular, ran into several credited 
editions and was also widely pirated. If it did not establish Defoe as 
a first-rate poet, it did display his talents for robust popular writing. 

His satire. The Shortest Way with the Dissenters, startled London 
in 1702. It was an attempt to discredit religious persecution by sug- 
. gesting the most extreme form of persecution. The shortest way witii 
dissenters, argued Defoe, was to eradicate them. The unsigned pam- 
phtet was written in a manner so solemn and serious tiiat many 
readers were deceived into thinking that it was the work of a man 
who truly advocated the dimination of dissent by killing off the (fis- 

5 



senters. When he revealed that he was the author, there was con- 
siderable embarrassment in many quarters, for among the extreme 
partisans of the Established Church were some who believed that 
violent measures were the way to settle religious differences. They 
were furious at the hoax and a warrant was issued for Defoe’s ar- 
rest. He was captured at length, sentenced to prison “during the 
queen’s pleasure” and forced to stand in the pillory. Frequently male- 
factors who stood in the pillory were abused by the crowd, but 
the author of “The True-Born Englishman” was a popular figure. 
The people formed a guard to protect I^foe, and pelted him jjivith 
flowers rather than with the customary rubbish, while vendors lyent 
through the crowd hawking copies of the mock-heroic poem, “H^imn 
to the PiUory,” which he composed in prison. 


TOWARD ROBINSON CRUSOE 

On February 17, 1704, whUe he was still in prison, Defoe issued 
the first number of the Review, a periodical that was to appear 
three times a week until 1713. Defoe was its editor and sole con- 
tributor during the entire period of its existence. As he was bterested 
in everything, the Review has become an invaluable source book for 
the social as well as the political historian. Robert Harley, a Tory 
politician who realized that Defoe’s pen would be of inestimable 
value to the Tory cause, obtained his release from prison by pleading 
his case to the Queen. As Defoe had been a partisan Whig during the 
reign of WiUiam and Mary, his espousal of the Tories gave his ene- 
mies a chance to label him a turncoat. We know also that D^oe en- 
ga^d in some sort of “secret service” work for his benefactor Harley. 
With considerable adroitness he managed to survive several cbangas 
of government in the course of his journalistic career. Starting out 
as a Whig apologist, then under Harley’s tutelage lending his talents 
to the Tories and finally, without doing a complete about-face, tnning 
down some of the more extreme Tory journals when the Whigs gained 
ascendency upon the accession of George I, Defoe might well be 
termed something of an opportunist. 

During all this time he continued to write pamphlets and books 
oa ewry conceivable subject, from politics to suggestions for im- 
provmg street pavements, the police force and schools. He wrote on 
^OTura, commerce and on almspving. In fact there were few sub- 

sometime or other during his career. 

few of the titles of these miscellaneous works are: Essay on 

6 



PubUc Credit (1710); Succession to the Crown of England Con- 
sidered (1701); A General History of Trade (1713); Effectwd 
Scheme for Preventing Street Robberies (1731) and the History and 
Reality of Apparitions (1728). From time to time he wrote stories 
of actual happenings which he thought would capture the public 
fancy. 

In 1706 he brought out a report of a gfhost story that was being 
circulated in the town of Canterbury: A True Relation of the Ap- 
parition of one Mrs. Veal, the next day after her death, to one Mrs. 
Bargrave, at Canterbury, the 8th of September, 1705. His skillf ul 
pen turned the rather dubious tale into a vivid and entertaining nar- 
rative. Defoe also wrote cotrunercial reports on the state of trade in 
various parts of England and in foreign countries, as well as a history 
of the negotiations leading up to the union of Eng|land and Scotland. 
Of the many Grub Street journalists, as the hack writers of. the 
period were called, Defoe was undoubtedly the most energetic and 
imaginative. Alexander Pope, who never concealed his contempt for 
the men of Grub Street, said that nothing Defoe wrote was bad, 
adding “There is something good in all he has written.” In April 
1719 he published Robinson Crusoe, his finest and most popular 
book and one that introduced a new form to Eng^sh fiction, the 
first-person narrative. 

THE ORIGINAL CRUSOE 

Like almost everything that Defoe wrote, Robinson Crusoe de- 
veloped from a real-life experience to which he added his own 
imaginative touches. The original Robinson Crusoe was a Scotsman, 
Alexander Selkirk, who took part in an expedition to the South Seas 
led by Captain William Dampier, a famous navigator and privateer. 
In 1704, Dampier’s little fleet, cruising off the coast of Chile, put in 
at the Juan Fernandez Itiands, four hundred miles from the main- 
land. Selkirk, who was sailing-master of the ship Cinque Ports got 
into an argument with his captain, Thomas Stradling. In a moment 
of rage Selkirk suggested that he be put ashore on one of tire little 
Mands, and he and his belon^ngs were transported to tire island of 
a Herra. He no soonn reached his destination than he 
re^tted his hasty decision, but Captain Stradling, who i^arently 
wanted no part of Selkirk, refused to take him back and the fleet 
sailed without him. 

In 1704 the Juan Fernandez Islands, which were named after 

7 






their Spanish discoverer, were quite uninhabited. To this day they 
are among the loneliest spots on earth. Tiny and utterly isolated, they 
did have considerable vegetation and Juan Fernandez had tried 
without success to establish a colony there. All that remained of his 
endeavor were some domestic goats and cats that had run wild. They 
were the only life on the islands when Selkirk asked to be 
marooned there. 

Selkirk remained on his island for almost five years. A rougih and 
ready man, he survived by fashioning crude tools and clothing him- 
self in goat skins. At length, on January 31, 1709, another Dampier 
fleet put in at the islands. Selkirk attracted their attention by builcfing 
a fire, and a rescue boat was sent from a vessel under the command 
of Captain Woodes Rogers. Selkirk arrived back in England in 1711 
after having taken part in a series of privateering raids. 

In 1712 Selkirk’s strange story was told by Captain Rogers in 
A Cruising Voyage round the World and by Captain Edward Cooke 
in Voyage in the South Sea and round the World. Richard Steele was 
introduced to the mariner and related his adventures in the Decem- 
ber 3, 1713 issue of his paper The Englishman. A cheap pamphlet. 
Providence Displayed or a Surprising Account of One Alexander 
Selkirk . . . written by his own hand, also publicized the story. 
But it was largely forgotten in 1719 when Daniel Defoe picked it up 
and saw that a great theme lay buried in it, a theme which previous 
writers had not explored fully. Defoe moved Selkirk’s island to the 
Atlantic side of South America and placed it forty degrees of lati- 
tude to the north. He replaced Selkirk with Crusoe and extended his 
stay on the island to nearly thirty years, and turned the adventure 
into an immortal tale of a man’s ability to fend for himself. 

THE SAILOR AND THE GENIUS 

The main difiiculty with Selkirk’s original story was, in fact, Selkirk 
himself. He was litde better than his shipmates on the privateering 
expedition — an excellent seaman but rou^ and onim.agmative. What 
had happened to him on the island seemed to him indeed curious, 
but not nearly so exciting as privateering. He had managed to sur- 
vive Ms ordeal but the report he delivered was mostly devoted to 
exidaining how he had done so. He showed his greatest ingcmuily 
by making some knives from barrd hoops; his greatest jdiysical feat 
was manag ing to run fast enougfh over the stony ground of the iriand 
to catch the fleet goats when he had exhausted his supply of pov^. 

9 



Selkirk did not see life on the island as a test of character and being 
neither novelist, social scientist nor a particularly religious man, 
he did not xmderstand that his solitary sojourn might be conceived as 
a fascinating utopian experiment, a gody civilization of just one 
citizen. 

Defoe saw the possibility of making Crusoe’s exile on the island 
a test of his hero’s practical abilities to survive. His own intensely 
ingenious and inventive nature rejoiced in a story that involved prac- 
tical difficulties and practical solutions. But he also saw in life on 
the island a greater theme, how a man may discover his vocation 
and work out his own salvation under the .most adverse conditions.^ 
As a respectable member of the middle class, Defoe had a low opinion, 
of sailors, whom he considered irresponsible, devil-may-care rapscal- \ 
lions. Robinson Crusoe began his career by running away to sea, 
but after the shipwreck and during his stay on the island, he turned 
into a prudent, practical, respectable householder. His story is a tri- 
umph of individualism, of moral responsibility, of religious energy 
harnessed to the service of self-preservation. Crusoe’s island is an 
idyllic place, almost a Garden of Eden in the South Atlantic. But 
the Adam who inhabits Eden is a busy London shopkeeper. He uses 
every method short of double-entry bookkeeping to reckon his ma- 
terial and spiritual advantages. He is bustling, energetic, resourceful 
and just a tiifle self-satisfied. He is very like his creator. 

THE ARTISTRY OF DANIEL DEFOE 

Alexander Selkirk lived just long enough to see his adventures, 
in Defoe’s version, become successful fiction. He died in 1721, two 
years after the novel was published. From the first there was little 
doubt that Defoe had captured his audience’s ima^ation with 
Robinson Crusoe, even though the hero himself is a talky, moralizing 
.fellow with no ^ft for theatrics. But Defoe told his story in a 
strai^tforward manner with no flourishes. He had very little idea of 
what a South American jungle was actually like, but the story of the 
trials and triumphs of Crusoe had a fre^ appeal for the reader and 
seemed completely credible. 

One finds oneself identifying with Crusoe just as one identifies 
vdth tile greatest heroes of epic and romance. The story is conceived 
in such broad human terms that not even the frequent clumsiness of 
its narration can destroy its interest. One of the great fasdnations 
of the novel is the wealth of detail Defoe ^ves. He tells us exactly 

10 



how Crusoe made himself at home on the island; how he sewed his 
clothes, built his cave house, devised tools, learned to bake bread, 
made a table and chair. Then, there is the clever way he made use 
of the items salvaged from the shipwreck. Th^ have a way of turn- 
ing up in circumstances where they become unexpectedly useful. The 
grindstone, for example, after lying useless for many weeks, is finally 
rigged up and put to work; the seeds of dry barley are planted and 
flourish, providing the hero with grain for his bread; a scrap of linen 
serves for three years as a sieve. 

Robinson Crusoe tries to make his cave as much like a conven- 
tional middle-class home as possible. He builds a table and a chair, 
but perhaps his greatest achievement is his umbrella. What a tes- 
timonial the umbrella is to the adaptability of man! And how pleased 
we are to realize that this solitary man, without any outside help, can 
create for himself not only the necessities, but some of the luxuries, 
of life. Robinson Crusoe delights us, first and last, by his splen^d 
invincibility. 


THE CHARACTER OF CRUSOE 

If Crusoe were uniformly successful, his story might have become 
incredible, not to say monotonous. The heartbreaking account of his 
efforts to make and launch a boat shows us another side of his 
character, the quality which enabled this stubborn and persistent man 
to accept defeat in a major endeavor. Crusoe has a quiet, under- 
stated sense of humor which comes out time and again in the course 
of the novel. There is the quaint comedy of his appearance — hairy, 
misshapen, but grotesquely comfortable in his patchwork parody of 
a gentleman’s estate. And when he sums up the religjous affiliations 
in his three-man “kingdom,” after the arrival of Friday, Ms father 
and the Spaniard, he does so with a keen satiric jab at conditions in 
England. He writes down Friday as Protestant, the father as pagan 
and the Spaniard as Roman Catholic, yet he notes that there is com- 
plete liberty of conscience on his island. When asked by one whom 
he has rescued whether he is a real man or an angel, he answers very 
sensibly that an angel would be wearing better clothes than goatskins. 
Crusoe’s stout common sense is worth twenty flights of fancy in 
inspiring confidence and belief. 

Friday, an undeniably fine creation, is a testimonial to (he 
eighteenth-century belief in the noble savage. But except for Friday 
and Crusoe, the other characters tend to be lacking in credibiUty. 

11 





• . he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten or 
^elve steps in token of acknowledgement for my saving his life.” 




Hie Spaniard barely has an individual existence and, of the swarms 
of sailors who infest Crusoe’s island paradise toward the 

end of the book, not one has even so much character as Poll, Crusoe’s 
parrot. 

DEFOE’S LAST YEARS 

Defoe earned his living by his pen, and when Robinson Crusoe 
met with popular favor, he did his best to keep the adventures going 
on indefinitely. Later, in the same year as the original book, there 
appeared The Further Adventures of Robinson Crusoe; Being thk 
second and last part of Ms life, and the strange surprising accouna 
of his travels round three parts of the globe. This was followed in 
the next year (1720) by Serious Reflections during the Life ana[ 
Surprising Adventures of Robinson Crusoe: with his vision of the ' 
AngeUc World. But neither sequel was the equal of the first volume, ' 
and Defoe, who never suffered from a deficiency of invention, 
turned to other projects. 

During the last years of his life, from 1720 until his death in 1731, 
he wrote most of his works of fiction. Among the most notable are 
The Life, Adventures and Piracies of the famous Captain Singleton 
( 1720) ; The Fortunes and Misfortunes of the Famous Moll Flanders 
(1722); A Journal of the Plague Year (1722), in which a fic- 
titious survivor of the Great Plague of 1664-65 gives a graphic ac- 
count of that dreadful time; The History and Remarkable Life of 
the truly honorable Colonel Jacque, vulgarly call’d Colonel Jack 
(1722) and Roxana, or the Fortunate Mistress (1724). He also 
wrote a number of lives of such notorious criminals as Jack Shep- 
pard (1724) and Jonathan Wild (1725) and miscellaneous books on 
a variety of subjects; Political History of the Devil (1726); a hand- 
book for retail merchants called The Complete English Tradesman 
(1725, 1727); and a three-volume guidebook. Tour thro’ the whole 
Island of Great Britain (1724-27). 

Defoe may have lacked the literary sensitivity of a truly great 
literary artist, but on the basis of his sheer fecundity and, above all, 
because he created Robinson Crusoe, he takes his place among the 
first rank of English novelists. 


14 





Advice to a Son 


I WAS BORN IN THE year 1632, in the city of York, of a good family, 
not of that country, my father being a foreigner of Bremen who 
settled first at Hull. He got a good estate by merchandise and, leav- 
ing off his trade, lived afterward at York, from whence he had mar- 
ried my mother, whose relations were named Robinson, a very good 
family in that country, and from whom I was called Robinson foeutz- 
naer; but by the usual corruption of words in England we are now 
called, nay, we call ourselves, and write our name “Crusoe,” and so 
my companions always called me. 

I had two elder brothers, one of which was lieutenant-colonel to an 
English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly commanded by the 
famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk 
against the Spaniards; what became of my second brother I never 
knew, any more than my father or mother did know what was be- 
come of me. 

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, my 
head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts. My father, 
who was very ancient, had given me a competent share of learning, 
as far as house education and a country free school ^erally goes, 
and designed me for the law; but I would be satisfied with nothing 
but going to sea; and my inclination to this led me so strongly against 
the will, nay, the commands of my father and against all the entreiff- 
ies and persuasions of my mother and other friends that there seemed 
to be something fatal in that propension of nature tending directly to 
the life of misery which was to bdall me. 

15 



Daniel Defoe 

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent 
counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He called me one 
morning into his chamber, where he was confined by the gout, and 
expostulated very warmly with me upon this subject. He asked me 
what reasons more than a mere wandering inclination I had for leav- 
ing my father’s house and my native country, where I might be well 
introduced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune by application 
and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me it was for 
men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring, superior for- 
tunes on the other, who went abroad upon' adventures, to rise by 
enterprise, and make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature 
out of the common road; that these things were all either too fa^. 
above me, or too far below me; that mine was the middle state, or ', 
what might be called the upper station of low life, which he had 
found by long experience was the best state in the world, the most 
suited to human happiness, not exposed to the miseries and hard- 
ships, the labor and sufferings of the mechanic part of mankind and 
not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the 
upper part of mankind. He told me I mi^t judge of the happiness 
of this state by this one thing, viz., that this was the state of life which 
all other people envied; that kings have frequently lamented the mis- 
erable consequences of being bom to great things, and wished they 
had been placed in the middle of the two extremes, between the mean 
and the great; that the wise man gave his testimony to this as the 
just standard of true felicity, when he prayed to have neither poverty 
nor riches. 

He bid me observe it, and I should always find, that the calami- 
ties of life were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind; 
but that the middle station had the fewest disasters, and was not 
exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of man- 
kind; nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and un- 
easinesses either of body or mind as those were who, by vicious liv- 
ing, luxury, and extravagances on one hand, or by hard labor, want 
of necessaries, and mean or insufficient diet on the other bring 
distempers upon themselves by the natural consequences of their 
way of living; that the middle station of life was calculated for all 
kinds of virtues and all kinds of enjoyments; that peace and plen^ 
vwre the handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance, modera- 
tion, quietness, health, society, all agreeable diversions, and afi de- 

16 



Robinson Crusoe 

sirable pleasures, were the blessings attending the middle station of 
life; that this way men went silently and smoothly through the world, 
and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with the labors of the 
hands or of the head, not sold to the life of slavery for daily bread, or 
harassed widi perplexed circumstances, which rob the soul of peace 
and the body of rest; not enraged with the passion of envy or secret 
burning lust of ambition for great things; but in easy circumstances 
sliding gently through the world, and sensibly tasting the sweets of 
living, without the bitter, feeling that they are happy and learning 
by every day’s experience to know it more sensibly. 

After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate 
manner, not to play the young man, not to precipitate myself into 
miseries which Nature and the station of life I was bom in seemed 
to have provided against; that I was under no necessity of seeking 
my bread; that he would do well for me, and endeavor to enter me 
fairly into the station of life which he had been just recommending 
to me; and that if I was not very easy and happy in the world, it must 
be my mere fate or fault that must hinder it, and that he should 
have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty in warn- 
ing me against measures which he knew would be to my hurt. In a 
word, that as he would do very kind things for me if I would stay 
and settle at home as he directed, so he would not have so much 
hand in my misfortunes as to give me any encouragement to go away. 
And to close all, he told me I had my elder brother for an example, 
to whom he had used the same earnest persuasions to keep him from 
going into the Low Country wars, but could not prevail, his young 
desires prompting him to nm into the army where he was killed; and 
though he said he would not cease to pray for me, yet he would 
venture to say to me that if I did take this foolish step, God would not 
bless me, and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having 
neglected his counsel when there might be none to assist in my re- 
covery. 

I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was truly pro- 
phetic, though 1 suppose my father did not know it to be so himself; 
I say, I observed Ae tears run down his face very plentifully, and 
especially when he spoke of my brother who was ^ed; and that 
when he spoke of my having leisure to repent, and none to assist 
me, he was so moved that he broke off the discourse and told me his 
heart was so full he could say no more to me. 

IT 



Bent Upon Seeing the World 

I WAS SINCERELY AFFECTED with this discourse, as indeed who 
could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of going abroad 
any more but to settle at home according to my father’s desire. But 
alas! a few days wore it all off; and in short, to prevent any of my 
father’s further importunities, in a few weeks ^ter I resolved to 
run quite away from him. However, I did not act so hastily neither 
as my first heat of resolution prompted, but. I took my mother, at qf 
time when I thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and told! 
her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the worl^ 
that I should never settle to anything with resolution enough to go 
through with it, and my father had better give me his consent than ! 
force me to go without it; that I was now eighteen years old, which \ 
was too late to go apprentice to a trade or clerk to an attorney; that 
I was sure, if I did, I should never serve out my time, and 1 should 
certainly run away from my master before my time was out and go 
to sea; and if she would speak to my father to let me go one voyage 
abroad, if I came home again and did not like it, I would go no more, 
and I would promise by a double diligence to recover that time I 
had lost. 

This put my mother into a great passion. She told me she knew 
it would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon any such sub- 
ject; that he knew too well what was my interest to give his consent 
to anything so much for my hurt, and that she wondered how I could 
think of any such thing after such a discourse as I had had with my 
father, and such kind and tender expressions as she knew my father 
had used to me; and that, in short, if I would ruin myself there was 
no help for me; but I might depend I should never have their consent 
to it; Aat for her part she would not have so much hand in my de- 
struction; and I should never have it to say that my mother was will- 
ing when my father was not. 

Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet as I have 
heard afterward, she reported all the discourse to him, and that my 
father, after showing a great concern at it, said to her with a sigh, 
“That boy might be happy if he would stay at home, but if he goes 
abroad he will be the most miserable wretch that was ever bom. I 
can ^ve no consent to it.” 

18 



Robinson Crusoe 

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose, thou^ 
in the meantime 1 continued obstinately deaf to all proposals of 
settling to business, and frequently expostulating with my father and 
mother about their being so positively determined against what they 
knew my inclinations prompted me to. But being one day at Hull, 
where I went casually, and without any purpose of making an elope- 
ment that time; but I say, being there, and one of my companions 
being going by sea to London in his father's ship and prompting me 
to go with them, with the common allurement of seafaring men, viz., 
that it should cost me nothing for my passage, I consulted neither 
father nor mother any more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but 
leaving them to hear of it as they might, without asking God’s bless- 
ing, or my father’s, without any consideration of circumstances or 
consequences and in an ill hour, God knows, on the first of Septem- 
ber, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for London. Never any 
young adventurer’s misfortunes, I believe, began sooner or continued* 
longer than mine. The ship was no sooner gotten out of the Humber 
but the wind began to blow and the sea to rise in a most frightful 
manner; and as I had never been at sea before, I was most inexpressi- 
bly sick in body and terrified in my mind. I began now seriously to re- 
flect upon what I had done, and how justly I was overtaken by the 
judgment of Heaven for my wicked leaving my father’s house and 
abandoning my duty; all the good counsel of my parents, my father’s 
tears and my mother’s entreaties came now fresh into my mind, and 
my conscience, which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to 
which it has been since, reproached me with the contempt of advice 
and the breach of my duty to God and my father. 

All this while the storm increased and the sea, which I had never 
been upon before, went very high, though nothing like what I have 
seen many times since; no, nor like what I saw a few days after. But 
it was enou^ to affect me then, who was but a yoimg sailor and had 
never known anything of the matter. I expected every wave would 
have swallowed us up and that every time the ship fell down, as I 
tiiou^t, in the trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise 
more; and in this agony of mind I made many vows and resolutions, 
that if it would please God here to spare my life this one voyage, if 
ever I got once my foot upon dry land again, I would go directly 
home to my father and never set it into a ship again whOe I lived; 
tiiat I would take his advice and never run myself into sudi miseries 
as these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness of his obsMva- 

19 



Daniel Defoe 

tions about the middle station of life, how easy, how comfortably he 
had lived all his days, and never had been exposed to tempests at 
sea or troubles on shore; and I resolved that 1 would, like a true re- 
penting prodigal, go home to my father. 

[The storm grew worse and the ship sank. Crusoe landed in a life- 
boat near Yarmouth Roads.'f 

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have 
gone home, I had been happy, and my father, an emblem of our 
blessed Saviour’s parable, had even killed the fatted calf for md; 
for hearing the ship I went away in was cast away in Yarmou^ 
Roads, it was a great while before he had any assurance that I wa^ 
not drowned. ' 

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that nothing, 
could resist; and though I had several times loud calls from my rea- \ 
son and my more composed judgment to go home, yet I had no 
power to do it. I know not what to call this, nor will I urge that it 
is a secret overruling decree that hurries us on to be the instruments 
of our own destruction, even though it be before us, and that we rush 
upon it with our eyes open. Certainly nothing but some such decreed 
unavoidable misery attending, and which it was impossible for me 
to escape, could have pushed me forward against the calm reasonings 
and persuasions of my most retired thoughts and against two such 
visible instructions as I had met with in my first attempt. . . . 

I traveled to London by land; and there, as well as on the road, 
had many struggles with myself what course of life I should take, 
and whether I should go home or go to sea. 

As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that offered to 
my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me how I should be 
laughed at among the neighbors and should be ashamed to see not 
my father and mother only but even everybody else; from whence I 
have since often observed how incongruous and irrational the com- 
mon temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason which 
ought to guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not ashamed 
to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action for 
which they ought justly to be esteemed fools but are ashamed of the 
returning, which only can make them be esteemed wise men. 

In this state of Itfe, however, I remained some time, uncertain 
what measures to take and what course of life to lead. An irresistible 
reluctance continued to going home; and as I stayed awhile, the 

20 



Robinson Crusoe 

remembrance of the distress I had been in wore off; and as that 
abated, the little motion I had in my desires to a return wore off 
with it, till at last 1 quite laid aside the thoughts of it and looked out 
for a voyage. 

The Most Unfortunate of Enterprises 

T hat evil influence which carried me first away from my 
father’s house, that hurried me into the wild and undigested no- 
tion of raising my fortune, and that impressed those conceits so for- 
cibly upon me as to make me deaf to all good advice and to the en- 
treaties and even command of my father; I say, the same influence, 
whatever it was, presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to 
my view; and I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa; 
or, as our sailors vulg^lrly call it, a voyage to Guinea. ... 

This was the only voyage which I may say was successful in all 
my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and honesty of my 
friend the captain, under whom also I got a competent knowledge 
of the mathematics and the rules of navigation, learned how to keep 
an account of the ship’s course, take an observation, and in short, to 
understand some things that were needful to be understood by a 
sailor. For, as he took delight to introduce me, I took delight to 
learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a 
merchant; for I brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold dust 
for my adventure, which yielded me in London at my return almost 
£300, and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have 
since so completed my ruin. 

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too; particularly, 
that I was continually sick, being thrown into a violent calenture by 
the excessive heat of the climate; our principal trading being upon 
the coast, from the latitude of fifteen degrees north even to the line 
itself. 

I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to my great 
misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the same 
voyage again, and I embarked in the same vessel with one who was 
his mate in the former voyage and had now got the command of the 
ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made. ... I fell 
into terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first was this, viz., 
our ship making her course towards the Canary Islands, or rather be- 

21 



Daniel Defoe 

tween those islands and the African shore, was sur^nised in the gray 
of the morning by a Turkish rover of Sal6, who gave chase to us with 
all the sail she could make. ... He prepared to attack us, and 
we to defend ourselves; but laying us on board the next time upon 
our other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who im- 
mediately fell to cutting and hacking the decks and rigging. We plied 
them with small-shot, half-pikes, powder chests, and such like, and 
cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut short this melan- 
choly part of our story, our ship being disabled, and three of our 
men killed and eight wounded, we were bbliged to yield, and wer^ 
carried all prisoners into Sale, a port belonging to the Moors. \ 

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I appre* 
hended, nor was I carried up the country to the emperor’s court, as , 
the rest of our men were, but was kept by the captain of the rover, 
as his proper prize, and made his slave, being young and nimble and 
fit for his business. At this surprising change of my circumstances 
from a merchant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed; 
and now I looked back upon my father’s prophetic discourse to me, 
that I should be miserable and have none to relieve me, which I 
thought was now so effectually brought to pass that it could not be 
worse; that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and I 
was imdone without redemption. But alas! this was but a taste of 
the misery I was to go through. 

As my new patron or master had taken me home to his house, so 
I was in hopes that he would take me with him when he went to sea 
again, believing that it would some time or other be his fate to be 
taken by a Spanish or Portugal man-of-war; and that then I should 
be set at liberty. But this hope of mme was soon taken away; for 
when he went to sea, he left me on shore to look after his little garden 
and do the common drudgery of slaves about bis house; and when 
he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie in the cabin 
to look after the ship. 

Here I meditated nothing but my escape and what method I 
mi^t take to effect it, but found no way that had the least proba- 
bility in it. . . . 

After about two years an odd circumstance presented itself, which 
put the old thought of making some attempt for my liberty again in 
my head. My patron lying at home longer than usual wiffiout fitting 
out his ship, which, as 1 heard, was for want of money, he used con- 
stantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftener if the weather was 

22 



Robinson Crusoe 

fair, to take the ship’s pinnace and go out into the road a-fishing; and 
as he always took me and a young Moor with him to row the boat, 
we made him very merry, and I proved very dexterous in catdiing 
fish; insomuch, that sometimes he would send me with a Moor, one 
of his kinsmen, to catch a dish of fish for him. 

It happened one time that, going a-fishing in a stark calm morning, 
a fog rose so thick, that though we were not half a league from the 
shore we lost sight of it. . . . However, we got well in again, 
though with a great deal of labor and some danger; for the wind 
began to blow pretty fresh in the morning; but particularly we were 
very hungry. 

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more 
care of himself for the future; and having lying by him the longboat 
of our English ship he had taken, he resolved he would not go 
a-fishing any more without a compass and some provision. . . . 

I got aU things ready as he had directed, and waited the next' 
morning with the boat washed clean ... by and by my patron 
came on board . . . and ordered me with ^e man and boy, as 
usual, to go out with the boat and catch some fish . . . and com- 
manded that as soon as I had got some fish I should bring it home to 
his house; all which I prepared to do. 

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my 
thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship at my com- 
mand; and my master being gone, I prepared to furnish myself, not 
for a fishing business but for a voyage; though I knew not, neither 
did I so much as consider whither I should steer; for anywhere to |^t 
out of that place was my way. . . . 

After we had fished some time and caught nothing, for when I 
had fish on my hook, I would not pull them up, that he might not see 
them, I said to the Moor, “This will not do, our master will not be 
thus served, we must stand farther off.” He, thinking no harm, 
agreed and, being in the head of the boat, set the sails; and as I had 
the helm, I run the boat out near a league farther and then brought 
her to as if I would fish; I stepped forward to where the Moor was, 
and making as if I stooped for something behind him, I took him by 
surprise with my arm xmder his twist * and tossed him clear over- 
board into the sea; he rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, 
and called to me, begged to be taken in, told me he would go aU 
over the world with me. He swam so strong after the boat that te 
•Crotch 


23 



Daniel Defoe 

would have reached me very quickly, there being but little wind; 
upon which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowling 
pieces, I presented it at him and told him I had done him no hurt 
and, if he would be quiet, I would do him none. “But,” said I, “you 
swim well enough to reach to the shore, and the sea is calm; make 
the best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm; but if you 
come near the boat. I’ll shoot you through the head, for I am re- 
solved to have my liberty”; so he turned himself about and swam 
for the shore, and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for 
he was an excellent swimmer. ... ‘ j 

[After drifting for days off the coast of Africa, Crusoe was sighted 
by a Portuguese freighter.} 

They asked me what I was in Portuguese and in Spanish and 
in French, but I imderstood none of them; but at last a Scots sailor 
who was on board called to me, and I answered him and told him 
I was an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of slavery 
from the Moors, at Said; then they bade me come on board and very 
kindly took me in and all my goods. 


I Came to the Brazils 

I T WAS AN INEXPRESSIBLE joy to me, that anyone will believe, that 
I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable and 
almost hopeless condition as I was in, and 1 immediately offered all I 
had to the captain of the ship as a return for my deliverance; but he 
generously told me he would take nothing from me, but that all I had 
should be delivered safe to me when I came to the Brazils. “For,” says 
he, “1 have saved your life on no other terms than I would be glad to 
be saved myself, and it may one time or other be my lot to be taken 
up in the same condition; besides,” said he, “when I carry you to the 
Braals, so great a way from your own country, if I should take from 
you what you have, you will be starved there, and then I only take 
away that life I have given. No, no. Seignior In^ese,” [Mr. En^ish- 
man] says he, “I will carry you thither in charity, and those things will 
help you to buy your subsistence there and your passage home again.” 

As he was charitable in his proposal, so he was just in the per- 
formance to a tittle, for he ordered the seamen that none should offer 
to touch anytiting 1 had; then he took everything into his own pos- 

24 



Robinson Crusoe 

session and gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I mi^t 
have them, even so much as my three earthen jars. . . . 

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils and arrived in the Bay 
de Todos los Santos, or Ah Saints* Bay, in about twenty-two days 
after. And now I was once more delivered from the most miserable 
of all conditions of life, and what to do next with myself I was now 
to consider. 

The generous treatment the captain gave me I can never enough 
remember; he would take nothing of me for my passage, gave me 
twenty ducats for the leopard’s skin, and forty for the lion’s skin which 
I had in my boat, and caused everything I had in the ship to be punc- 
tually delivered me; and what I was willing to sell he bought, such 
as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of 
beeswax, for I had made candles of the rest; in a word, I made about 
220 pieces of eight of all my cargo, and with this stock I went on 
shore in the Brazils. 

I had not been long here, but being recommended to the house of 
a good honest man like himself, who had an ingenio as they call it, 
that is, a plantation and a sugar-house, I lived with him some time 
and acquainted myself by that means with the manner of their plant- 
ing and making of sugar; and seeing how well the planters lived and 
how they grew rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get license to 
settle there, I would turn planter among them, resolving in the mean- 
time to find out some way to get my money which I had left in London 
remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of a letter of natural- 
ization, I purchased as much land that was uncured as my money 
would reach and formed a plan for my plantation and settlement, 
and such a one as might be suitable to the stock which I proposed to 
myself to receive from England. . . . 

When this cargo arrived, 1 thou^t my fortunes made, for 1 was 
surprised with the joy of it; my goods being all English manufactures, 
such as cloth, stuffs, baize, and things particularly valuable and de- 
sirable in the country, I found means to sell them to a ve^ great ad- 
vantage; so that 1 mi^t say 1 had more than four times the value of 
my first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my poor nei^bor, I 
mean in the advancement of my plantation; for the first thing I did, 
I bought me a Negro slave and an European servant also. . . . 

Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had room for all 
the happy things to have yet befallen me, for which my fadimr so 
eamesdy recommended a quiet, retired life, and which he had so 

25 



Daniel Defoe 

sensibly described the middle station of life to be full of; but other 
thin gs attended me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of all my 
own miseries; and particularly to increase my fault and double the 
reflections upon myself, which in my future sorrows I should have 
leisure to make; all these miscarriages were procured by my ap- 
parent obstinate adhering to my foolish inclination of wandering 
abroad and pursuing that inclination, in contradiction to the clearest 
views of doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit of those pros- 
pects and those measures of life which Nature and Providence con- 
curred to present me with and to make my 'duty. ... I 

You may suppose that, having now lived almost four years in tl^e 
Brazils and beginning to thrive and prosper very well upon my plan- 
tation, I had not only learned the language, but had contracted ac^ 
quaintance and friendship among my fellow-planters, as well ai 
among the merchants at St. Salvadore, which was our port; and that' 
in my discourses among them, I had frequently given them an ac- 
count of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the manner of 
trading with the Negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase 
upon the coast, for trifles such as beads, toys, knives, scissors, 
hatchets, bits of glass, and the like, not only gold dust, Guinea 
grains, elephants’ teeth, etc., but Negroes for the service of the 
Brazils, in great numbers. 

They listened always very attentively to my discourses on these 
heads, but especially to that part which related to the buying Ne- 
groes, which was a trade at that time not only not far entered into, 
but, as far as it was, had been carried on by the assientos, or permis- 
sion of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in the public, 
so that few Negroes were brought, and those excessive dear. 

It happened, being in company with some merchants and planters 
of my acquaintance and talking of those things very earnestly, three 
of them came to me the next morning and told me they had been 
musing very much upon what I had discoursed with them of, the 
last night, and they came to make a secret proposal to me; and after 
enjoining me secrecy, they told me that they had a mind to fit out a 
ship to go to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well as I, and 
were straitened for nothing so much as servants; that as it was a 
trade that could not be carried on, because they could not publicly 
sell the Negroes when they came home, so they desired to msdce but 
one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and divide them 

26 



Robinson Crusoe 

among dieir own plantations; and in a word, the question was 
whether 1 would go their supercargo in the ship to manage the 
trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and they offered me that I 
should have my equal share of the Negroes wiAout providing any 
part of the stock. 

This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it been made 
to anyone that had not had a settlement and plantation of his own 
to look after which was in a fair way of coming to be very consider- 
able and with a good stock upon it. But for me that was thus entered 
and established and had nothing to do but go on as I had begun for 
three or four years more, and to have sent for the other hundred 
pound from En^and, and who in that time, and with that little ad- 
dition, could scarce ha’ failed of being worth three or four thousand 
pounds sterling, and that increasing too; for me to think of such a 
voyage was the most preposterous thing that ever man in such cir- 
cumstances could be guilty of. 

But I that was bom to be my own destroyer could no more resist 
the offer than I could restrain my first rambling designs, when my 
father’s good counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I told them I 
would go with all my heart, if Aey would undertake to look after 
my plantation in my absence and would dispose of it to such as 1 
should direct, if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and entered 
into writings or covenants to do so; and I made a formal will, dis- 
posing of my plantation and effects, in case of my death, making the 
captain of Ae ship that had saved my life my universal heir, but 
obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had directed in my will, 
one half of the produce being to himself and the other to be sUpped 
to England. 

In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my effects and 
keep up my plantation; had I used half as much prudence to have 
looked into my own interest and have made a judgment of what 1 
ought to have done and not to have done, I had certainly never gone 
away from so prosperous an undertaking, leaving all the probable 
views of a thriving circumstance and gone upon a voyage to sea, 
attended with all its common hazards; to say nothing of the reasons 
I had to expect particular misfortunes to myself. 

But I was hurried on and obeyed blindly the dictates of my fan^ 
rather than my reason; and accordin^y, the ship being fitted out and 
the cargo furnished, and all things done as by agreement by my 

27 



Daniel Defoe 

partners in the voyage, I went on board in an evil hour, the 1st of 
Lptember, 1659, being the same day eight years that I went from 
my father and mother at Hull, in order to act the rebel to their 
authority and the fool to my own interest. 


The Terror of the Storm 

O UR SHIP WAS ABOUT 120 ton burden, carried six guns and fou^- 
teen men, besides the master, his boy, and myself; we had cm 
board no large cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit for oit 
trade with the Negroes, such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and odcj 
trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and^ 
the like. 

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away to the 
northward upon our own coast, with design to stretch over the Af- 
rican coast, when they came about ten or twelve degrees of northern 
latitude, which it seems was the manner of their course in those days. 
We had very good weather, only excessive hot, all the way upon our 
own coast till ... a violent tornado or hurricane took us quite out 
of our knowledge; it began from the southeast, came about to the 
northwest, and then settled into the northeast, from whence it blew 
in such a terrible manner that for twelve days together we could do 
nothing but drive and, scudding away before it, let it carry us whither 
ever fate and the fury of the winds directed; and during these twelve 
days, I need not say, that I expected every day to be swallowed up, 
nor indeed did any in the ship expect to save their lives. . . . 

About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the master 
made an observation as well as he could, and found that ... he 
was gotten upon the coast of Guinea, or the north part of Brazil, 
beyond the river Amazones, toward that of the river Oronoque, 
commonly called the Great River, and began to consult with me 
what course he should take, for the ship was leaky and very much dis- 
abled and he was going directly back to the coast of Brazil. 

I was positively against that, and looking over the charts of the 
seacoast of America with him, we concluded there was no inhabited 
country for us to have recourse to till we came within the circle of 
the Caribbee Islands and therefore resolved to stand away for Bar- 
bados. . . . 


28 



Robinson Crusoe 

With this design we changed our course and steered away north- 
west by west in order to reach some of our English islands, where 1 
hoped for relief; but our voyage was otherwise determined, for being 
in the latitude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes, a second storm 
came upon us, which carried us away with the same impetuosity 
westward and drove us so out of the very way of all human com- 
merce, that had all our lives been saved as to the sea, we were rather 
in danger of being devoured by savages than ever returning to our 
own country. 

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men 
early in the morning cried out, “Land!” and we had no sooner run 
out of the cabin to look out in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the 
world we were but the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her 
motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner 
that we expected we should all have perished immediately, and we 
were immediately driven into our close quarters to shelter us front 
the very foam and spray of the sea. 

It is not easy for anyone who has not been in the like condition 
to describe or conceive the consternation of men in such circum- 
stances; we knew nothing where we were or upon what land it was we 
were driven, whether an island or the main, whether inhabited or 
not inhabited; and as the rage of the wind was still great, though 
rather less than at first, we could not so much as hope to have ^e 
ship hold many minutes without breaking in pieces unless the winds 
by a kind of miracle should turn immediately about. In a word, 
we sat looking one upon another and expecting death every moment, 
and every man acting accordingly, as preparing for another world, 
for there was little or nothing more for us to do in this; that which 
was our present comfort and all the comfort we had was, that con- 
trary to our expectation, the ship did not break yet and that the 
master said the wind began to abate. 

Now though we thought that the wind did a little abate, yet the 
ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too fast for us to 
expect her getting off, we were in a dreadful condition indeed and had 
nothing to do but to think of saving our lives as well as we could; we 
had a boat at our stem just before the storm, but she was first staved 
by dashing against the ship’s rudder, and in the next place she broke 
away and either sunk or was driven off to sea, so there was no hope 
from her; we had another boat on board, but how to get her off into 
the sea was a doubtful thing; however, there was no room to debate, 

29 



Daniel Defoe 

for we fancied the ship would break in pieces every minute, and 
some told us she was actually broken already. 

In this distress the mate of our vessel lays hold of the boat, and 
with the help of the rest of the men, they got her slung over 
the ship’s side and, getting all into her, let go and committed our- 
selves, being eleven in number, to God’s mercy and the wild sea; for 
though the storm was abated considerably, yet the sea went dreadful 
high upon the shore. . . . 

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw plaiijily 
that the sea went so high that the boat could not live and that we 
should be inevitably drowned. As to making sail, we had none; nor, 
if we had, could we ha’ done anything with it; so we worked at u^e 
oar toward the land, though with heavy hearts, like men going t^ 
execution; for we all knew that when the boat came nearer the shor^ 
she would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the sea. 
However, we committed our souls to God in the most earnest man- 
ner, and the wind driving us toward the shore, we hastened our de- 
struction with our own hands, pulling as well as we could toward 
land. 

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether steep or shoal, 
we knew not; the only hope that could rationally ^ve us the least 
shadow of expectation was if we might happen into some bay or gulf, 
or the mouth of some river, where by great chance we might have run 
our boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps made 
smooth water. But there was nothing of this appeared; but as we made 
nearer and nearer the shore, the land looked more frightful than the 
sea. 

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a half, 
as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling astern 
of us and plainly bade us expect the coup de grace. In a word, it took 
us with such a fury that it overset the boat at once; and separating us, 
as well from the boat as from one another, gave us not time hardly to 
say, “O God!” for we were all swallowed up in a moment. 

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt when 
I sunk into the water; for though I swam very well, yet I could not 
deliver myself from the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave 
having driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way on toward die 
shore and having spent itself, went back, and left me upon the land 
almost dry but half dead with the water I took in. I had so much 
presmce of mind as well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer the 

30 



Robinson Crusoe 

mainland than I expected, I got uptm my feet, and endeavmed to 
make on toward the land as fast as I could, before another wave 
should return and take me up again. But I soon found it was impos- 
sible to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after me as high as a great 
hill, and as furious as an enemy which I had no means or strength to 
contend with; my business was to hold my breath and raise myself 
upon the water, if I could; and so by swimming to preserve my breath- 
ing and pilot myself toward the shore, if possible; my greatest concern 
now being that the sea, as it would carry me a great way toward the 
shore when it came on, might not carry me back again with it when 
it gave back toward the sea. 

The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once twenty or 
thirty feet deep in its own body, and I could feel myself carried with 
a mighty force and swiftness toward the shore a very great way; but 
1 held my breath and assisted myself to swim still forward with all my 
might. I was ready to burst wi^ holding my breath, when, as I felf 
myself rising up, so to my immediate relief, 1 found my head and 
hands shoot out above the surface of the water; and though it was 
not two seconds of time that 1 could keep myself so, yet it relieved me 
greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was covered again with 
water a good while, but not so long but I held it out; and finding the 
water had spent itself and began to return, I struck forward against 
the return of the waves, and felt ground again with my feet. I stood 
still a few moments to recover breath, and till the water went from 
me, and then took to my heels, and ran with what strength 1 had 
farther toward the shore. But neither would this deliver me from the 
fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me again, and twice 
more I was lifted up by the waves, and carried forward as before, the 
shore being very flat. 

Ibe last time of these two had well near been fatal to me; for the 
sea, having hurried me along as before, landed me, or rather dashed 
me, against a piece of a rock, and that with such force as it left me 
senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own deliveinnce; for the 
blow, taking my side and breast, beat the breath as it were quite out 
of my body; and had it returned again immediately, I must have been 
strangled in the water; but I recovered a little before the return ol 
the waves, and seeing I should be covered agmn with the water, I 
resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock and so to hold my breath, 
if possiUe, till the wave went back; now as the waves wme not so 
h^ as at first, being near land, I held my hold till the wave abated, 

31 



Daniel Defoe 

and then fetched another run, which brought me so near the shore 
that the next wave, though it went over me, yet did not so swallow 
me up as to carry me away, and the next run I took, 1 got to the main- 
land, where, to my great comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the 
shore and sat me down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite 
out of the reach of the water. , . . 


A Dreadful Deliverance 


I WALKED ABOUT on the shore, lifting up my hands, and my whble 
being, as I may say, wrapped up in the contemplation of my qe- 
liverance, making a thousand gestures and motions which I cannot 
describe, reflecting upon all my comrades that were drowned ahiji 
that there should not be one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, 
I never saw them afterward or any sign of them, except three of their 
hats, one cap and two shoes that were not fellows. 

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach and froth 
of the sea being so big, I could hardly see it, it lay so far off, and con- 
sidered, Lord! how was it possible I could get on shore? 

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my con- 
dition, I began to look round me to see what kind of place I was in, 
and what was next to be done, and I soon found my comforts abate, 
and that, in a word, I had a dreadful deliverance. For I was wet, had 
no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink to comfort 
me, neither did I see any prospect before me but that of perishing 
with hunger or being devoured by wild beasts; and that which was 
particularly afflicting to me was that I had no weapon either to hunt 
and kill any creatures for my sustenance or to defend myself against 
any other creature that might desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I 
had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe and a little tobacco 
in a box; this was all my provision, and this threw me into terrible 
agomes of mind that for a while I ran about like a madman; night 
coming upon me, I began with a heavy heart to consider what would 
be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that country, seeing at 
ni^t they always come abroad for their prey. 

the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time was to get 
up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, but thorny, which grew near me, 
Md where I resolved to sit all night, and consider the next day what 
death I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life; I walked about 

32 



Robinson Crusoe 

a furlong from the shore, to see if I could find any fresh water to 
drink, which I did, to my great joy; and having drunk, and put a 
little tobacco in my mouth to prevent hunger, I went to the tree, and 
getting up into it, endeavored to place myself so as that if I should 
sleep I might not fall; and having cut me a short stick, like a trun- 
cheon, for my defense, I took up my lodging, and having been ex- 
cessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably as, I 
believe, few could have done in my condition, and found myself the 
most refreshed with it that 1 think 1 ever was on such an occasion. 

When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm 
abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before. But that 
which surprised me most was that Ae ship was lifted off in the night 
from the sand where she lay by the swelling of the tide, and was 
driven up almost as far as the rock which I first mentioned, where I 
had been so bruised by the dashing me against it; this being within 
about a mile from the shore where I was and the ship seeming to 
stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that, at least, 1 might 
save some necessary things for my use. 

When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked about 
me again, and the first thing I found was the boat, which lay as the 
wind and the sea had tossed her up upon the land, about two miles 
on my right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore to have 
got to her, but found a neck or inlet of water between me and the 
boat, which was about half a mile broad, so I came back for the 
present, being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped 
to find something for my present subsistence. 

A little after noon I found the sea very calm and the tide ebbed so 
far out that 1 could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship; and 
here I found a fresh renewing of my grief, for I saw evidently that if 
we had kept on board, we had been aU safe, that is to say, we had all 
got safe on shore, and I had not been so miserable as to be left entirely 
destitute of all comfort and company, as I now was; this forced tears 
from my eyes again, but as there was little relief in that, I resolved, 
if possible, to get to the ship; so I pulled off my clothes, for the weather 
was hot to extremity, and took the water; but when I came to the ship, 
my difficulty was still greater to know how to get on board, for as she 
lay aground, and high out of the water, there was nothing within my 
reach to lay hold of; I swam round her twice, and the second time I 
spied a small piece of a rope, which I wondered I did not see at first, 
hang down by the fore-chain so low as that with great difficulty I got 

33 



Daniel Defoe 

hold of it, and by the help of that rope got up into the forecasfle of 
the ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged, and had a great deal 
of water in her hold, but that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard 
or rather earth, that her stem lay lifted up upon the bank and 
her head low almost to the water; by this means all her quarter was 
free, and all that was in that part was dry; for you may be sure my 
first work was to search and to see what was spoiled and what was 
free; and first I found that all the ship’s provisions were dry and un- 
touched by the water, and being very well-disposed to eat, I went to 
the bread-room and filled my pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I 
went about other things, for I had no time to lose; I also found some 
rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which\l 
had indeed enough of to spirit me for what was before me. Now ^ 
wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with many things which 
I foresaw would be very necessary to me. 

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had, and 
this extremity roused my application; we had several spare yards and 
two or three large spars of wood and a spare top mast or two in the 
ship; I resolved to fall to work with these and flung as many of them 
overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying every one with a 
rope that they might not drive away; when this was done I went dowii 
the ship’s side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of them fast to- 
gether at both ends as well as I could, in the form of a raft, and laying 
two or three short pieces of plank upon them crossways, I found I 
could walk upon it very well, but that it was not able to bear any 
great weight, the pieces being too light; so I went to work, and with 
the carpenter’s saw I cut a spare top mast into three lengths and 
added them to my raft, with a great deal of labor and pains; but hope 
of furnishing myself with necessaries encouraged me to go beyond 
what I should have been able to have done upon another occasion. 

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight; my 
next care was what to load it with and how to preserve what I laid 
upon it from the surf of the sea; but I was not long considering this ; 
I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get, and having 
considered well what I most wanted, I first got three of Ae seamen’s 
diests, which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered them 
down upon my raft; the first of these I filled with provision, viz., 
bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goat’s flesh, 
which we lived much upon, and a little remainder of European com 
which had been laid by for some fowls which we hmnght to sea with 

34 



Robinson Crusoe 

us, but the fowls were kiUed; there had been some barley and wheat 
together, but, to my great disappointment, I found afterward that 
the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found several 
cases of bottles belonging to our skipper in which were some cordial 
waters, and in all about five or six gallons of rack *; these I stowed 
by themselves, there being no need to put them into the chest, nor 
no room for them. While I was doing this, I found the tide began to 
Aqw, though very calm, and I had the mortification to see my coat, 
shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore upon the sand, swim 
away; as for my breeches, which were only linen, and open-kneed, 
I swam on board in them, and my stockings. However, this put me 
upon rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough but took no 
more than I wanted for present use, for I had other things which my 
eye was more upon, as first, tools to work with on shore; and it was 
after long searcl^g that I found out the carpenter’s chest, which was 
indeed a very useful prize to me, and much more valuable than a 
ship-loading of gold would have been at that time; I got it down to 
my raft, even whole as it was, without losing time to look into it for 
I knew in general what it contained. 

My next care was for some ammunition and arms; there were two 
very good fowling pieces in the great cabin, and two pistols; these I 
secured first, with some powder-horns, and a small bag of shot, and 
two old rusty swords; I knew there were three barrels of powder in 
the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed them; but with 
much search I found them, two of them dry and good, the third had 
taken water; those two I got to my raft with the arms, and now I 
thought myself pretty well freighted, and began to think how I 
should get to shore with them, having neither sail, oar, or rudder; 
and the least capful of wind would have overset all my navigation. 

I had three encouragements: 1. A smooth, calm sea. 2. The tide 
rising and setting in to the shore. 3. What little wind there was blew 
me toward the land; and thus, having found two or three broken oars 
belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which wete.in the chest, 
I found two saws, an ax, and a hammer, and with this cargo I put to 
sea. For a mile or thereabouts my raft went very well, only that I 
found it drive a little distant from the place where I had landed be- 
fore, by whudi I perceived that there was smne indraft of the water, 
and consequently I hoped to find some creek or river there which I 
might make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo. ... 

* Arrack 


35 



Daniel Defoe 

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, to 
which with great pain and difiBculty I guided my raft and at last got 
so near as that, reaching ground with my oar, I could thrust her 
directly in; but here I had like to have dipped all my cargo in the sea 
again; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to say, sloping, there 
was no place to land, but where one end of my float, if it run on shore, 
would lie so high and the other sink lower as before, that it would 
endanger my cargo again. All that I could do was to wait till the tide 
was at the highest, keeping the raft with, my oar like an anchor to 
hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece of ground, whicb 
I expected the water would flow over; and so it did. As soon as tt 
found water enough, for my raft drew about a foot of water, I thrus^ 
her on upon that flat piece of ground and there fastened or mooredi 
her by sticking my two broken oars into the ground, one on one side\j 
near one end, and one on the other side near the other end; and thus 
I lay till the water ebbed away and left my raft and all my cargo 
safe on shore. 

My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper place 
for my habitation and where to stow my goods to secure them from 
whatever might happen; where I was I yet knew not, whether on the 
continent or on an island, whether inhabited or not inhabited, whether ' 
in danger of wild beasts or not. There was a hill not above a mile 
from me, which rose up very steep and high, and which seemed to 
overtop some other hills which lay as in a ridge from it, northward; 

I took out one of the fowling pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn 
of powder, and thus armed, I traveled for discovery up to the top of 
that hill, where, after I had with great labor and difficulty got to the 
top, I saw my fate to my great afiliction, viz., that I was in an island 
environed every way with the sea, no land to be seen, except some 
rocks which lay a great way of! and two small islands less than this, 
which lay about three leagues to the west. 

I found also that the island I was in was barren and, as I saw good 
reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of whom, how- 
ever, I saw none, yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not their 
kind; neither when I killed them could I tell what was fit for food, 
and what not; at my coming back, I shot at a great bird which I saw 
sitting upon a tree on the side of a great wood. I believe it was the 
first gun that had been fired there since the creation of the world; 
I had no sooner fired but from all the parts of the wood there arose 
an innumerable number of fowls of many sorts, making a confused 

36 



Robinson Crusoe 

screaming, and crying every one according to his usual note; but not 
one of them of any kind that I knew. As for the creature I killed, I 
took it to be a kind of a hawk, its color and beak resembling it, but 
had no talons or claws more than common; its flesh was carrion and 
fit for nothing. 

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft and fell to 
work to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up the rest of that 
day, and what to do with myself at night I knew not, nor indeed 
where to rest; for I was afraid to lie down on the ground, not know- 
ing but some wild beast might devour me, though, as I afterward 
found, there was really no need for those fears. 

However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round with the 
chests and boards that I had brought on shore and made a kind of a 
hut for that night’s lodging; as for food, I yet saw not which way to 
supply myself, except that I had seen two or three creatures like hares 
run out of the wood where I shot the fowl. 

I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many things 
out of the ship, which would be useful to me, and particularly some 
of the rigging and sails and such other things as might come to land 
. . . and as I knew that the first storm that blew must necessarily 
break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things apart, till I 
got everything out of the ship that I could get. . . . 

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second raft, and 
having had experience of the first, I neither made this so unwieldy, 
nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought away several things very use- 
ful to me. . . . 

While the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get 
everything out of her that I could; so every day at low water I went 
on board, and brought away something or other. But partictdarly the 
third time I went, 1 brought away as much of the rigging as I could, 
as also all the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a piece 
of spare canvas, which was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the 
barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought away all- the sails first 
and last, only that 1 was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring as much 
at a time as I could; for they were no more useful to be sails but as 
mere canvas only. . . . 

I went every day on board, and brought away what I could get. 

I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven times 
on board the ship; in which time I had brought away all that one pfur 
of hands could well be supposed capable to bring, though I believe 

37 



Daniel Defoe 

verily, had the calm weather held, I should have brought away the 
whole ship piece by piece. But preparing the twelfth time to go on 
board, I found the wind begin to rise; however, at low water I went 
on board, and thougji I thought I had rummaged the cabin so effec- 
tually, as that nothing more could be found, yet I discovered a locker 
with ^awers in it, in one of which I found two or three razors and 
one pair of large scissors, with some ten or a dozen of good knives 
and forks; in another I found about thirty-six pounds value in money, 
some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gol^ 
some silver. I 

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. “O drug!” said I alou^ 
“what art thou good for? Thou art not worth to me, no, not the taking 
off of the ground; one of those knives is worth all this heap; I havQ 
no manner of use for thee; e’en remain where thou art and go to the\ 
bottom as a creature whose life is not worth saving.” However, upon 
second thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all this in a piece of 
canvas, I began to think of making another raft; but while I was pre- 
paring this, I found the sky overcast, and the wind began to rise, and 
in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore; it presently 
occurred to me that it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with the 
wind off shore, and that it was my business to be gone before the tide 
of flood began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore at all. 

Accordingly I let myself down into the water and swam across the 
channel. . . . 

It blew very hard all that night, and in the morning, when I looked 
out, behold, no more ship was to be seen; I was a little surprised, but 
recovered myself with this satisfactory reflection, viz., that I had lost 
no time, nor abated no diligence to get everything out of her that 
could be useful to me, and that indeed there was litiie left in her that 
I was able to bring away if I had had more time. . . . 


Securing Myself Against Savages and Wild Beasts 

M y thoughts were now wholly employed about securing my- 
self against either savages, if any should appear, or wild 
beasts, if any were in the island; and I had many thoug|its of the 
method how to do this and what kind of dwelling to make, whether 
I should make me a cave in the earth or a tent upon the earth. And, 

38 



Robinson Crusoe 

in short, I resolved upon both, the manner and description of whidi 
it may not be improper to give an account of. 

I soon found the place I was in was not for my settlement, partic> 
ularly because it was upon a low moorish ground near the sea, and I 
believed would not be wholesome, and more particularly because 
there was no fresh water near it, so I resolved to find a more healthy 
and more convenient spot of ground. 

I consulted several tilings in my situation, which 1 found would be 
proper for me: first, health and fresh water, I just now mentioned; 
secondly, shelter from the heat of the sun; thirdly, security from 
ravenous creatures, whether men or beasts; fourthly, a view to the 
sea, that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any advantage 
for my deliverance, of which I was not willing to banish all my ex- 
pectation yet. 

In search of a place proper for this I found a little plain on the 
side of a rising hiU, whose front toward this little plain was steep sis 
a house-side so that nothing could come down upon me from the top; 
on the side of this rock there was a hoUow place worn a little way in 
like the entrance or door of a cave, but there was not really any cave, 
or way into the rock at all. 

On the fiat of the green, just before this hollow place, I resolved to 
pitch my tent. This plain was not above a hundred yards broad and 
about twice as long, and lay like a green before my door and at the 
end of it descended irregularly every way down into the low grounds 
by the seaside. It was on the north-northwest side of the hill, so that I 
was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a west and by 
south sun, or thereabouts, which in those countries is near the setting. 

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before the hollow 
place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter &om the 
rock and twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning and ending. 

In this half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving them 
into the ground till they stood very firm like piles, the biggest end 
being out of the ground about five foot and a half and sharpened on 
the top. The two rows did not stand above six inches from one an- 
other. 

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship, and 
laid them in rows one upon another, within the circle, between these 
two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in the indde, 
leaning against them, about two foot and a half hi^ like a spur to 

39 



Daniel Defoe 

a post; and this fence was so strong that neither man nor beast could 
get into it or over it. This cost me a great deal of time and labor, 
especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the place, and 
drive them into the earth. 

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door, but by a 
short ladder to go over the top, which ladder, when I was in, I lifted 
over after me, and so I was completely fenced in, and fortified, as I 
thought, from all the world, and consequently slept secure in the 
night, which otherwise I could not have done, though, as it appear^ 
afterward, there was no need of all this caution from the enemies that 
I apprehended danger from. \ 

Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labor, I carried all nW 
riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you ha^^ 
the account above; and I made me a large tent, which, to preserve me 
from the rains that in one part of the year are very violent there, I 
made double, viz., one smaller tent within, and one larger tent above 
it, and covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin which I had 
saved among the sails. 

And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought 
on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very good one and 
belonged to the mate of the ship. 

Into this tent I brought all my provisions and everything that 
would spoil by the wet, and having thus enclosed all my goods, I 
made up the entrance, which till now I had left open, and so passed 
and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder. 

When I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock, and 
bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down out through my tent, 
I laid ’em up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, that so it 
raised the ground within about a foot and a half; and thus I made me 
a cave just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar to my bouse. 

It cost me much labor and many days before all these things were 
brought to perfection, and therefore I must go back to some other 
things which took up some of my thoughts. At the same time it hap- 
pened, after I had laid my scheme for the setting up my tent and 
making the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick dark cloud, 
a sudden flash of lightning happened and after that a great clap of 
thunder, as is naturally the effect of it; I was not so much surprised 
with the lightning as I was with a thougfht which darted into my mind 
as swift as the lightning itself: O my powder! My very heart sunk 
within me when I thought that at one blast all my powder migiht be 

40 



Robinson Crusoe 

destroyed, on which not my defense only but the providing me food, 
as I thought, entirely depended; I wus nothing near so anxious about 
my own danger, though had the powder took fire, I had never known 
who had hurt me. 

Such impression did this make upon me that after the storm was 
over, I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, and ap- 
plied myself to make bags and boxes to separate the powder, and 
keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in hope that whatever might 
come it might not all take fire at once, and to keep it so apart that it 
should not be possible to make one part fire another. I finished this 
work in about a fortnight, and I think my powder, which in all was 
about 240 pounds’ weight, was divided in not less than a hundred 
parcels; as to the barrel that had been wet, I did not apprehend any 
danger from that, so I placed it in my new cave, which in my fancy 
I called my kitchen, and the rest I hid up and down in holes among 
the rocks, so that no wet might come to it, marking very carefully 
where I laid it. 

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out once at 
least every day with my gun, as well to divert myself as to see if I 
could kill anything fit for food, and as near as I could to acquaint 
myself with what the island produced. The first time I went out I 
presently discovered that there were goats in the island, which was a 
great satisfaction to me; but then it was attended with this misfortune 
to me, viz., that they were so shy, so subtile, and so swift of foot that 
it was the difiicultest thing in the world to come at them. But I was not 
discouraged at this, not doubting but I might now and then shoot one, 
as it soon happened, for after I had found their haunts a little, I laid 
wait in this manner for them: I observed if they saw me in the val- 
leys, though they were upon the rocks, they would run away as in a 
terrible fright; but if they were feeding in t^ valleys and I was upon 
the rocks, they took no notice of me, from whence I concluded that, 
by the position of their optics, their sight was so directed downward 
that they did not readily see objects that were above them; so after- 
ward I took this method, I always climbed the rocks first to get 
above them and then had frequently a fair mark. The first shot I 
made among these creatures, I killed a she-goat which had a little 
kid by her which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily; but 
when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by her till I came and 
took her up, and not only so, but when I carried the old one with me 
upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to my enclosure, upon 

41 



Daniel Defoe 

which I laid down the dam and took the kid in my anns and carried 
it over my pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame, but it would not eat, 
so I was forced to kill it and eat it myself. These two supplied me 
with flesh a great while, for I ate sparingly, and saved my provisions 
(my bread especially) as much as possibly I could. . . . 

I had a dismal prospect of my condition, for as I was not cast away 
upon that island without being driven, as is said, by a violent storm 
quite out of the course of our intended voyage and a great way, viz., 
some hundreds of leagues out of the orduxary course of the trade of 
mankind, I had great reason to consider it as a determination! of 
Heaven that in this desolate place and in this desolate manner I 
should end my life; the tears would run plentifully down my fdjce 
when I made these reflections, and sometimes I would expostulsite 
with myself why Providence should thus completely ruin its creatures 
and render them so absolutely miserable, so without help abandoned, 
so entirely depressed that it could hardly be rational to be thankful 
for such a life. 

But something always returned swift upon me to check these 
thoughts and to reprove me; and particularly one day, walking with 
my gun in my hand by the seaside, I was very pensive upon the sub- 
ject of my present condition, when Reason, as it were, expostulated 
with me t’ other way, thus: “Well, you are in a desolate condition, 
’tis true, but pray remember, where are the rest of you? Did not you 
come eleven of you into the boat? Where are the ten? Why were not 
they saved and you lost? Why were you singled out? Is it better to be 
here, or there?” And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be con- 
sidered with the good that is in them and with what worse attends 
them. 

Then it occurred to me again how well I was furnished for my 
subsistence and what would have been my case if it had not hap- 
pened, which was an hundred thousand to one, that the ship floated 
from the place where she first struck and was driven so near to the 
shore that I had time to get all these things out of her. What would 
have been my case if I had been forced to live in the condition in 
which I at first came on shore, without necessaries of life, or neces- 
saries to supply and procure them? “Particularly,” said I aloud 
(though to myself) , “what should I ha’ done without a gun, without 
a mmu ni t ion, without any tools to make anything or to work with, 
without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any manner of covering?” and 
that now I had all these to a sufficient quantity, and was in a fair way 

42 



Robinson Crusoe 

to provide myself in such a manner as to live without my gun whoi 
my ammuniti on was Spent; so that I had a tolerable view of subsist- 
ing without any want as long as I lived; for I considered from the be- 
ginning how I woidd provide for the accidents that might happen and 
for the time that was to come, even not only after my ammunit ion 
should be spent, but even after my health or strength should de- 
cay. . . . 

And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene of 
silent life, such perhaps, as was never heard of in the world before, 
I shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in its order. It was, 
by my account, the 30th of September when, in the manner as above 
said, I first set foot upon this horrid island, when the sun, being to 
us in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over my head, for I reck- 
oned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of nine degrees 
twenty-two minutes north of the line. 

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my 
thougjhts that I should lose my reckoning of time for want of books 
and pen and ink and should even forget the Sabbath days from the 
working days; but to prevent this I cut it with my knife upon a large 
post, in capital letters, and making it into a great cross, I set it up on 
the shore where I first landed, viz., “I came on shore here on the 30th 
of September 1659.” Upon the sides of this square post I cut every 
day a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch was as long 
again as the rest, and every first day of the month as long again as 
that long one; and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and 
yearly reckoning of time. 

In the next place we are to observe that among the many things 
which I brought out of the ship in the several voyages which, as above 
mentioned, I made to it, I got several things of less value, but not all 
less useful to me, which I omitted setting down before; as in partic- 
ular, pens, ink, and paper, several parcels in the captain’s, mate’s, 
gunner’s and carpenter’s keeping, three or four compasses, some 
mathematical instruments, dids, perspectives, charts, and books oi 
navigation, all which I huddled together, whether I might want them 
or no; also I found three very good Bibles, which came to me in my 
cargo from Engiland, and which I had packed up among my things; 
some Portuguese books also, and among them two or three Perish 
I»:ayer-books, and several other books, all which I cazefuQy secured. 
And I must not forget that we had in ^ ship a dog and two cats, pi 
whose eminent histray I may have occasion to say sometlung in ite 

43 



Daniel Defoe 

place; for I carried both the cats with me, and as for the dog, he 
jumped out of the ship of himself and swam on shore to me the day 
after I went on shore with my first cargo and was a trusty servant 
to me many years; I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor any 
company that he could make up to me; I only wanted to have him 
talk to me, but that would not do. As I observed before, I found pen, 
ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to the utmost; and 1 shall 
show that while my ink lasted, I kept things very exact, but after 
that was gone, I could not, for I could not make any ink by any me£^ 
that I could devise. ( 

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, notwithstand- 
ing all that I had amassed together, and of these, this of ink was one, 
as also spade, pickax, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth, needle^, 
pins, and thread; as for linen, I soon learned to want that withou'^ 
much difficulty. 

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily, and it was 
near a whole year before I had entirely finished my little pale, or 
surrounded habitation. The piles, or stakes, which were as heavy as 
I could well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing in the 
woods, and more by far in bringing home, so that I spent sometime^ 
two days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts and a third 
day in driving it into the ground; for which purpose I got a heavy 
piece of wood at first, but at last bethought myself of one of the iron 
crows, which, however, though I found it, yet it made driving those 
posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. 

But what need I ha’ been concerned at the tediousness of anything 
I had to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in? Nor had I any other 
employment, if that had been over, at least that I could foresee, ex- 
cept the ranging the island to seek for food, which I did more or less 
every day. 

My Reason Began to Master My Despondency 

I NOW BEGAN TO CONSIDER seriously my condition, and the circum- 
stance I was reduced to, and I drew up the state of my affairs in 
writing, not so much to leave them to any that were to come after me, 
for I was like to have but few heirs, as to deliver my thoughts from 
daily poring upon them, and afflicting my mind; and as my reason 
began now to master my despondency, I began to comfort myself as 
well as I could and to set the good against the evil, that I might have 

44 



Robinson Crusoe 

something to distinguish my case from worse, and I stated it very im- 
partially, like debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed, against 
the miseries I suffered, thus: 


Evil 

I am cast upon a horrible des- 
olate island, void of all hope of 
recovery. 

I am singled out and sepa- 
rated, as it were, from all the 
world to be miserable. 


I am divided from mankind, a 
solitaire, one banished from hu- 
man society. 

I have not clothes to cover me. 


I am without any defense or 
means to resist any violence of 
man or beast. 


I have no soul to speak to, or 
relieve me. 


Good 

But I am alive, and not 
drowned, as all my ship’s com- 
pany was. 

But I am singled out, too, from 
all the ship’s crew to be spared 
from death; and He that miracu- 
lously saved me from death can 
deliver me from this condition. 

But 1 am not starved and per- 
ishing on a barren place, afford- 
ing no sustenance. 

But I am in a hot climate, 
where if I had clothes 1 could 
hardly wear them. 

But I am cast on an island, 
where I see no wild beasts to hurt 
me, as I saw on the coast of Af- 
rica. And what if I had been ship- 
wrecked there? 

But God wonderfully sent the 
ship in near enough to the shore 
that 1 have gotten out so many 
necessary things as will either 
supply my wants, or enable me 
to supply myself even as long as 
I live. 


Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony that there was 
scarce any condition in the world so miserable but there was some- 
thing negative or something positive to be thankful for in it; and let 
this stand as a direction from the experience of the most miserable 
of all conditions in this world, that we may always find in it some- 
thing to comfort ourselves from and to set in the description of good 
and evil on the credit side of the account. 

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condition and 
given over looking out to sea to see if I could spy a ship; I say, givii^ 

45 



Daniel Defoe 

over these things, 1 began to apply myself to accommodate my way 
of living and to make things as easy to me as I could. . . . 

So I went to work; and here I must needs observe, that as reason 
is the substance and original of the mathematics, so by stating and 
squaring everything by reason and by making the most rational judg- 
ment of things, every man may be in time master of every mechanic 
art. I had never handled a tool in my life, and yet in time, by labor, 
application, and contrivance, I found at last that I wanted nothing 
but I could have made it, especially if, I had had tools; however, I 
made abundance of things, even without tools, and some withjno 
more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which perhaps were nmet 
made that way before, and that with infinite labor. For example! if 
I wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set it On 
an edge before me, and hew it flat on either side with my ax, till I h^d 
brought it to be thin as a plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze. 
It is true, by this method I could make but one board out of a whole 
tree, but this I had no remedy for but patience, any more than I had 
for the prodigious deal of time and labor which it took me up to make 
a plank or board. But my time or labor was little worth, and so it was 
as well employed one way as another. 

However, I made me a table and a chair . . . and this I did out 
of the shore pieces of boards that I brought on my raft from the ship. 
But when I had wrought out some boards, I made large shelves of 
the breadth of a foot and a half one over another, all along one side 
of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and ironwork, and, in a word 
to separate everything at luge in their places, that I might come 
easily at them; I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my 
guns and all things that would hang up. . . . 

And now it was when I began to keep a journal of every day’s em- 
ployment ... of which I shall here give you the copy (Aough in it 
will be told all these particulars over again) as long as it lasted, for 
having no more ink, I was forced to leave it off. 

The Journal 

S EPTEMBER 30, 1659. I, poor miserable Robinson Crusoe, being 
shipwrecked during a dreadful storm in the oifing, came on shore 
on this dismd unfortunate island, which 1 called “fite Island ai De- 
spair,” all the rest of the ship’s company being drowned and myself 
almost dead. 


46 



Robinson Crusob 

AH the rest ot that day I spent in afflicting myself at the dismal 
circumstances I was brought to, viz., I had neither food, house, 
clothes, weapon, or place to fly to, and in despair of any relief, saw 
nothing but death before me, either that I should be devoured by 
wild beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death for want of 
food. At the approach of tught, I slept in a tree for fear of wild crea- 
tures, but slept soundly, thou^ it rained all night. 

October 1. In the morning I saw to my great surprise the 
ship had floated with the high tide and was driven on shore again 
much nearer the island, which, as it was some comfort on one hand, 
for seeing her sit upright and not broken to pieces, I hoped, if die 
wind abated, I might get on board and get some food and neces- 
saries out of her for my relief; so on the other hand, it renewed my 
grief at the loss of my comrades, who, I imagined, if we had all 
stayed on board, might have saved the ship or at least that they ' 
would not have been all drowned as they were; and that had the men 
been saved, we mig^t perhaps have built us a boat out of the ruins of 
the ship, to have carried us to some other part of die world. I spent 
great part of this day in perplexing myself on these things; but at 
length seeing the ship almost dry, I went upon the sand as near as I 
could, and then swam on board; this day also it continued raining, 
though with no wind at all. 

From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days entirely 
spent in many several voyages to get all I could out of the ship, which 
I brought on shore, every dde of flood, upon rafts. Much rain also in 
these days, though with some intervals of fair weather. But, it seems, 
this was the rainy season. . . . 

October 26. I walked about the shore almost all day to And 
out a place to fix my habitation, gready concerned to secure myself 
from an attack in the night, either from wild beasts or men. Toward 
ni^t I fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and marked out a 
semicircle for my encampment, which I resolved to strengthen with 
a work, wall, or fortification made of double piles, lined within with 
cables, and without with turf. . . . 

November 4. This morning I began to order my times of 
work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversicm, 
viz., every morning I walked out with my gun for two or three hours 
if it did not rain, then employed myself to work till about eleven 
o’clock; then ate what 1 had to live on and from twelve to two I lay 
down to sleep, die weather being excessive hot, and then in the eve- 

47 



Daniel Defoe 

ning to work again. Hie working part of this day and of the next were 
wholly employed in making my table, for I was yet but a very sorry 
workman, though time and necessity made me a complete natural 
mechanic soon after, as I believe it would do anyone else. 

November 5. This day went abroad with my gun and my 
dog, and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good for 
nothing. Every creature I killed, I took off the skins and preserved 
them. Coming back by the seashore, I saw many sorts of sea fowls 
which I did not understand, but was surprised and almost frighted 
with two or three seals, which, while I was gaidng at, not well know- 
ing what they were, got into the sea and escaped me for that time. 

November 6. After my morning walk I went to work with 
my table again, and finished it, though not to my liking; nor was it 
long before I learned to mend it. 

November 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 
7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and part of the 12th (for the 11th was Sunday) I 
took wholly up to make me a chair and with much ado brought it to 
a tolerable shape, but never to please me, and even in the making, 
I pulled it in pieces several times. Note: I soon neglected my keeping 
Sundays, for, omitting my mark for them on my post, 1 forgot which 
Was which. 

November 13. This day it rained, which refreshed me ex- 
ceedingly and cooled the earth, but it was accompanied with terrible 
thunder and lightning, which frighted me dreadfully, for fear of my 
powder; as soon as it was over, I resolved to separate my stock of 
powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it might not be 
in danger. 

November 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making 
little square chests or boxes, which might hold about a pound or two 
jpounds, at most, of powder; and so, putting the powder in, I stowed 
it in places as secure and remote from one another as possible. On 
one of these three days I killed a large bird that was good to eat, but 
I know now what to call it. 

November 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent into 
the rock to make room for my further conveniency. Note: Three 
things I wanted exceedingly for this work, viz., a pickax, a shovel, 
and a wheelbarrow or basket, so I desisted from my work and began 
to consider how to supply that want and make me some tools. As for 
a pickax, I made use of the iron crows, which were proper enougfh, 
though heavy; but the next thing was a shovel or spade. This was so 

48 



Robinson Crusoe 

absolutely necessary, that indeed I could do nothing effectually mth- 
out it, but what kind of one to make I knew not. 

November 18. The next day in searching the woods I found 
a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the Brazils they call the iron 
tree, for its exceeding hardness; of this, with great labor, and almost 
spoiling my ax, I cut a piece and brought it home, too, with difficulty 
enough, for it was exceeding heavy. 

The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no other way, 
made me a long while upon this machine, for I worked it effectuaUy 
by little and little into the form of a shovel or spade, the handle ex- 
actly shaped like ours in England, only that the broad part having 
no iron shod upon it at bottom, it would not last me so long; however, 
it served well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put it to; 
but never was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long 
a-making. 

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a wheelbarrow; a 
basket I could not make by any means, having no such things as 
twigs that would bend to make wickerware, at least none yet found 
out; and as to a wheelbarrow, I fancied I could make aU but the 
wheel, but that I had no notion of, neither did I know how to go 
about it; besides, I had no possible way to make the iron gudgeons 
for the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave it over; and so 
for carrying away the earth which I dug out of the cave, I made me 
a thing like a hod which the laborers carry mortar in when they 
serve the bricklayers. 

This was not so difficult to me as the making the shovel; and yet 
this and the shovel and the attempt which I made in vain to make a 
wheelbarrow took me up no less than four days, I mean always ex- 
cepting my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom failed, and 
very seldom failed ^so bringing home something fit to eat. 

November 23. My other work having now stood sffil because 
of my making these tools, when they were finished I went on, and 
working every day, as my strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen 
days entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it mi^t hold 
my goods commodiously. 

note: During all this time, I worked to make this room or cave 
spacious enougih to accommodate me as a warehouse or magazine, a 
kitchen, a dining room, and a cellar; as for my lodg^g, I kept to the 
tent, except that sometimes in the wet season of the year it rmned so 
hard that I could not keep myself dry, which caused me afterward to 

49 



Daniel Defoe 

cover all my place within my pale with long poles, in the form of 
rafters, leaning against the rock, and load them with flags and largo 
leaves of trees, like a thatch. 

December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault fin- 
ished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a great 
quantity of earth fell down from the top and one side, so much, that, 
in short, it frighted me, and not without reason too; for if I had been 
under it I had never wanted a gravedigger. Upon this disaster I had 
a great deal of work to do over again; for I had the loose earth to 
carry out; and which was of more impor^ce, I had the ceiling to 
prop up, so that I might be sure no more would come down. \ 

December 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly^ 
and got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces ^ 
of boards across over each post. This I finished die next day; and \ 
setting more posts up with boards, in about a week more I had the 
roof secured; and the posts, standing in rows, served me for partitions 
to part of my house. 

December 17. From this day to the twentieth I placed 
shelves and knocked up nails on the posts to hang everything up that 
could be hung up, and now I began to be in some order within doors. 

December 20. Now I carried everything into the cave, and 
began to furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards, like a 
dresser, to order my victuals upon, but boards began to be very scarce 
with me; also I made me another table. 

December 24. Much rain all night and all day; no stirring 
out. 

December 25. Rain all day. . . . 

December 28, 29, 30. Great heats and no breeze; so that 
there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening for food; this time 
I spent in putting all my things in order within doors. 

January 1. Very hot still, but I went abroad early and late 
with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day; this evening going 
farther into the valleys which lay towards the center of the island, 

1 found there was plenty of goats, thoug)i exceeding shy and hard to 
come at; however, I reserved to try if I could not bring my dog to 
hunt them down. 

January 2. Accordingly, file next day, I went out with my 
dog, and set him upon the goats; but I was mistaken, for they aU 
faced about upon the dog, and he knew his danger too well, for he 
would not come near them. . . . 


50 



Managing My Household Affcdrs 


A ll this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me many 
L days, nay, sometimes weeks together; but 1 thought I should 
never be perfectly secure till my wall was finished; and it is scarce 
credible what inexpressible labor everything was done with, espe- 
cially the bringing piles out of the woods, and driving them into the 
ground, for I made them much big^r than I need to have done. 

When this wall was finished, and the outside double-fenced with a 
turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that if any peojde 
were to come on shore there, they would not perceive anything like a 
habitation; and it was very well I did so, as may be observed here- 
after upon a very remarkable occasion. . . . 

And now, in the managing my household affairs, I found myself' 
wanting in many things, which I thought at first it was impossible for 
me to make, as indeed as to some of them it was; for instance, I 
could never make a cask to be hooped; I had a small runlet or two, 
as I observed before, but I could never arrive to the capacity of mak- 
ing one by them, though I spent many weeks about it; 1 could neither 
put in the heads, or joint the staves so true to one another, as to make 
them hold water, so I gave that also over. 

In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle; so that as soon 
as ever it was dark, which was generally by seven o’clock, I was 
obliged to go to bed. I remembered the lump of beeswax with which 
I made candles in my African adventure, but I had none of that now; 
the only remedy I had was, that when I had killed a goat, 1 saved the 
tallow, and with a little dish made of clay, which I baked in the sun, 
to which I added a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp; and this 
gave me light, though not a clear steady light like a candle. In the 
middle of all my labors it happened that, rummaging my things, I 
found a little bag, which, as I hinted before, had been filled with com 
for the feeding of poultry, not for this voyage, but before, as I sup- 
pose, when the ship came from Lisbon; what little remained of com 
had been in the bag was ail devoured with the rats, and I saw nothing 
in the bag but husks and dust; and being willing to have die bag for 
some other use, 1 think it was to put powder in, when I divided it for 
fear of the lightning, or some such use, 1 shook the husks of com out 
of it on one ade of my fortification under the rock. 


51 



Daniel Defoe 

It was a little before the great rains, just now mentioned, that I 
threw this stuff away, taking no notice of anything, and not so much 
as remembering that I had thrown anything there; when about a 
month after or thereabout I saw some few stalks of something green 
shooting out of the ground, which I fancied might be some plant I 
had not seen; but I was surprised and perfectly astonished when after 
a little longer time I saw about ten or twelve ears come out which 
were perfect green barley of the same kind as our European, nay, as 
our English barley. 

It is impossible to express the asonishmeiit and confusion of myi 
thoughts on this occasion; I had hitherto acted upon no religious! 
foundation at all; indeed I had very few notions of religion in my \ 
head or had entertained any sense of anything that had befallen me 
otherwise than as a chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases God; 
without so much as inquiring into the end of Providence in these 
things or His order in governing events in the world. But after I saw 
barley grow there, in a climate which I know was not proper for com, 
and especially that I knew not how it came there, it startled me 
strangely and I began to suggest that God had miraculously caused 
this grain to grow without any help of seed sown and that it was so 
directed purely for my sustenance on that wild miserable place. 

This touched my heart a little and brought tears out of my eyes, 
and I began to bless myself, that such a prodigy of Nature should 
happen upon my account; and this was the more strange to me be- 
cause 1 saw near it still, all along by the side of the rock, some other 
straggling stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice and which I knew, 
because I had seen it grow in Africa when 1 was ashore there. 

I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence for my 
support but not doubting but that there was more in the place, I went 
all over that part of the island where I had been before, peering in 
every comer and under every rock, to see for more of it, but I could 
not find any; at last it occurred to my thoughts that I had shook a 
bag of chickens’ meal out in that place, and then the wonder began 
to cease; and I must confess, my religious thankfulness to God’s Prov- 
idence began to abate too upon the discovering that all this was noth- 
ing but what was common; though I ought to have been as thankful 
fm: so strange and unforeseen Providence as if it had been miracu- 
lous; for it was really the work of Providence as to me, that should 
order or appoint, that ten or twelve grains of com should remain un- 
spoiled (when the rats had destroyed all the rest), as if it had been 

52 



Robinson Crusoe 

dropped from Heaven; as also that I should throw it out in that 
particular place where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang 
up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown it anywhere else at that 
time, it had been burned up and destroyed. 

I carefully saved the ears of this com, you may be sure, in their 
season, which was about the end of June; and laying up every com, 

I resolved to sow them all again, hoping in time to have some quan- 
tity sufficient to supply me with bread; but it was not till the fourth 
year that I could allow myself the least grain of this com to eat, and 
even then but sparingly, as I shall say afterwards in its order; for I 
lost all that I sowed the first season by not observing the proper time; 
for I sowed it just before the dry season, so that it never came up at all, 
at least not as it would have done; of which in its place. 

Besides this barley, there was, as above, twenty or thirty stalks of 
rice, which I preserved with the same care, and whose use was of the^ 
same kind or to the same purpose, viz., to make me bread, or rather 
food; for I found ways to cook it up without baking, though I did that 
also after some time. But to return to my journal. . . . 

April 16. I finished the ladder, so I went up with the ladder 
to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it down in the inside. 
This was a complete enclosure to me; for within I had room enough, 
and nothing could come at me from without, unless it could first 
mount my wall. 

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost had 
all my labor overthrown at once, and myself killed; the case was thus. 
As I was busy in the inside of it, behind my tent, just in the entrance 
into my cave, I was terribly frighted with a most dreadful surprising 
thing indeed; for all on a sudden I found the earth come crumbling 
down from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of the hill over my 
head, and two of the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a fri^t- 
ful manner; I was heartily scared, but thought nothing of what was 
really the cause, only thinking that the top of my cave was falling in, 
as some of it had done before; and for fear I should be buried in it, I 
ran forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe there neither, 
I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill which I expected 
might roll down upon me. 1 was no sooner stepped down upon the 
firm ground but I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake, for the 
ground I stood on shook three times at about eight minutes’ distance, 
with three such shocks as would have overturned the strongest build- 
ing that could be supposed to have stood on the earth, and a great 

53 



Dcaiiel Defoe 

piece of the top of a rock, which stood about half a mile from me 
next the sea, fell down with such a terrible noise, as I never heard 
in all my life. I perceived also the very sea was put into violent mo- 
tion by it; and I believe the shocks were stronger under the water 
than on the island. 

I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never felt the like or 
discoursed with anyone that had, that I was like one dead or stupe- 
fied; and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick like one that 
was tossed at sea; but the noise of the faihng of the rock awaked me 
as it were, and rousing me from the stu{>^ed condition I was inL 
filled me with horror, and I thought of nothing then but the hill 
falling upon my tent and all my household goods and burying all an 
once; and this sunk my very soul within me a second time. i 

After the third shock was over and I felt no more for some time, \ 
I began to take courage, and yet I had not heart enough to go over 
my wall again, for fear of being buried alive, but sat still upon the 
ground, greatly cast down and (fisconsolate, not knowing what to do. 
All this while I had not the least serious religious thought, nothing 
but the common, “Lord ha’ mercy upon me!’’ and when it was over, 
that went away too. 

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy, as if 
it would rain; soon after that the wind rose by little and little, so 
that in less than half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane. The 
sea was all on a sudden covered over with foam and froth, the shore 
was covered with the breach of the water, the trees were tom up by 
the roots, and a terrible storm it was; and this held about three hours, 
and then began to abate, and in two hours more it was stark calm, 
and began to rain very hard. . . . 

It continued raining all that night and great part of the next day, so 
that I coidd not stir abroad, but my mind being more composed, I 
began to think of what I had best do, concluding that if the island was 
subject to these earthquakes, there woidd be no living for me in a 
cave, but I must consider of building me some little hut in an open 
place which I might surround with a wall, as I had done here, and so 
make myself secure from wild beasts or men; but concluded, if I 
stayed where I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be buried 
alive. 

With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent from the place 
where it stood, which was just under the han^g precipice of the 
hill, and which, if it should be shaken again, would certunly fall 

54 



Robinson Oiusoe 

upon my tent. And I spent the two next days, being the 19th and 
20th of April, in contriving where and how to remove my habitation. 

The fear of being swallowed up alive made me that I never slept 
in quiet, and yet the apprehension of lying abroad without any fence 
was almost equal to it; but still, when I looked about and saw how 
everything was put in order, how pleasantly concealed I was and 
how safe from danger, it made me very loaA to remove. 

In the meantime it occurred to me that it would require a vast 
deal of time for me to do this, and that I must be contented to run the 
venture where I was, till 1 had formed a camp for myself, and had 
secured it so as to remove to it. So with this resolution I composed 
myself for a time and resolved that I would go to work with all 
speed to build me a wall with piles and cables, etc., in a circle as be- 
fore and set my tent up in it when it was finished, but that I would 
venture to stay where I was till it was finished and fit to remove. This • 
was the 21st. 

April 22. The next morning I began to consider of means 
to put this resolve in execution, but I was at a great loss about my 
tools; I had three large axes and abundance of hatchets (for we 
carried the hatchets for traffic with the Indians), but with much chop- 
ping and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches and 
dull, and though I had a grindstone, I could not turn it and grind my 
tools too; this cost me as much thought as a statesman would have 
bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge upon the life and 
death of a man. At length I contrived a wheel with a string, to turn it 
with my foot, that I migjit have both my hands at liberty. Sote: I had 
never seen any such thing in England, or at least not to take notice 
how it was done, though since I have observed it is very common 
there; besides that, my grindstone was very large and heavy. This 
machine cost me a full week’s work to bring it to perfection. 

April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding 
my tools, my madiine for turning my grindstone performing very 
well. 

April 30. Having perceived my bread had been low a great 
while, now I took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one biscuit 
cake a day, which made my heart very heavy. 

May 1. In the morning, looldng towards the seadde, the 
tide being low, I saw something lie on the ^ore bigger than cnxlinary, 
and it looked like a cask; whra I came to it, I foimd a small barrel 
and two or three |neces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven 

55 



Daniel Defoe 

on shore by the late hurricane, and looking towards the wreck itself, 
I thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do; 
I examined the barrel which was driven on shore and soon found it 
was a barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken water, and the powder 
was caked as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it farther on shore 
for the present and went on upon the sands as near as I could to the 
wreck of the ship to look for more. 

When I came down to the ship I found it strangely removed. The 
forecastle, which lay before buried in sand, was heaved up at least 
six foot, and the stem, which was broke to pieces and parted fro|n 
the rest by the force of the sea soon after I had left rummaging heir, 
was tossed, as it were, up, and cast on one side, and the sand was 
thrown so high on that side next her stem that whereas there was ai 
great place of water before, so that I could not come within a quarter^ 
of a mile of the wreck without swimming, I could now walk quite up 
to her when the tide was out; I was surprised with this at first, but 
soon concluded it must be done by the earthquake, and as by this 
violence the ship was more broken open than formerly, so many 
things came daily on shore, which the sea had loosened and which 
the winds and water rolled by degrees to the land. 

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of removing my 
habitation; and I busied myself mightily that day especially in search- 
ing whether I could make any way into the ship, but I found nothing 
was to be expected of that kind, for that all the inside of the ship was 
choked up with sand. However, as I had learned not to despair of 
anything, I resolved to puU everything to pieces that I could of the 
ship, concluding that everythmg I could get from her would be of 
some use or other to me. 

May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam 
through, which I thought held some of the upper part or quarter- 
deck together, and when I had cut it through, I cleared away the 
sand as well as I could from the side which lay highest; but the tide 
coming in, I was obliged to give over for that time. . . . 

May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to 
wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the water or sand; 

I wrenched open two planks and brought them on shore also with the 
tide. I left the iron crow in the wreck for next day. 

May 9. Went to the wreck and with the crow made way into 
the body of the wreck and felt several casks and loosened them with 

56 



Robinson Crusoe 

the*crow, but could not break them up; I felt also the roll of English 
lead and could stir it, but it was too heavy to remove. 

May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Went every day to the wreck, and 
got a great deal of pieces of timber and boards, or plank, and two 
or three hundredweight of iron. . . . 

May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the wreck, and 
with hard labor I loosened some things so much with the crow, that 
with the first blowing tide several casks floated out and two of the 
seamen’s chests; but the wind blowing from the shore, nothing came 
to land that day but pieces of timber and a hogshead which had 
some Brazil pork in it, but the salt water and the sand had spoiled it. 
I continued this work every day to the 15th of June, except the time 
necessary to get food, which I always appointed, during this part of 
my employment, to be when the tide was up, that I might be ready 
when it was ebbed out, and by this time I had gotten timber and 
plank and ironwork enough to have builded a good boat, if I bad 
known how; and also, I got at several times and in several pieces 
near one hundredweight of the sheet lead. . . . 

June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thought at 
this time the rain felt cold, and I was something chilly, which I knew 
was not usual in that latitude. 


Delivered Wonderfully from Sickness 

J UNE 19. Very ill, shivering, as if the weather had been cold. 

June 20. No rest all night; violent pains in my head, and 
feverish. 

June 21. Very ill, frighted almost to death with the ap- 
prehensions of my sad condition, to be sick and no help. Prayed to 
God for the first time since the storm off of Hull, but scarce knew 
what I said, or why; my thoughts being all confused. 

June 22. A little better, but under dreadful apprehensions 
of sickness. 

June 23. Very bad again; cold and shivering, and then a 
violent headache. 

June 24. Much better. 

June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me seven hours, 
cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it. 


57 



Daniel Defoe 

June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took my 
but found myself very weak; however, I killed a she-goat and with 
much difficulty got it home and broiled some of it and ate; I would 
fain have stewed it and made some broth, but had no pot. 

June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay abed all day 
and neither ate nor drank. 1 was ready to perish for thirst, but so 
weak I had not strength to stand up or to get myself any water to 
drink. Prayed to God again, but was lightheaded; and when I was 
not, I was so ignorant that I knew not what to say; only I lay ai^ 
cried, “Lord, look upon me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy 
upon me!” I suppose I did nothing else for two or three hours tiu, 
the fit wearing off, I fell asleep and did not wake till far in the nighty 
when I waked, I found myself much refreshed, but weak and ex\ 
ceeding thirsty. However, as I had no water in my whole habitation,'^ 
I was forced to lie till morning and went to sleep again. In this 
second sleep I had this terrible dream. 

I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the outside of my 
wall, where I sat when the storm blew after the earthquake, and that 
I saw a man descend from a great black cloud, in a bright flame of 
fire, and light upon the ground. He was all over as bright as a flame, 
so that I could but just bear to look toward him; his countenance 
was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe; 
when he stepped upon the ground with his feet, I thought the earth 
trembled, just as it had done before in the earthquake, and all the 
air looked, to my apprehension, as if it had been filled with flashes 
of fire. 

He was no sooner landed upon the earth but he moved forward 
toward me, with a long spear or weapon in his hand, to kill me; and 
when he came to a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to me, 
or I heard a voice so terrible, that it is impossible to express the 
terror of it; all that I can say 1 understood was this: “Seeing all these 
things have not brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die.” At 
which words, I thou^t he lifted up the spear that was in his hand, 
to kill me. 

No one that shall ever read this account will expect that I should 
be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible vision; I 
mean, that even while it was a dream, I even dreamed of those hor- 
rors; nor is it any more possible to describe the impression that re- 
mained upon my mind when I awaked and found it was but a dream. 

I had, alas! no divine knowledge; what I had received by the good 

58 



Robinson Crusoe 

instruction of my father was then worn out by an unintemipted 
series, for eig^t years, of seafaring wickedness and a constant cm- 
versation with nothing but such as were, like myself, wicked and 
profane to the last degree. I do not remember that I had in all that 
time one thought that so much as tended either to looking upward 
toward God or inward toward a reflection upon my own ways. But 
a certain stupidity of soul, without desire of good or conscience of 
evil, had entirely overwhelmed me, and I was all that the most 
hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among our common sailors 
can be supposed to be, not having the least sense either of the fear 
of God in danger or of thankfulness to God in deliverances. 

In the relating what is already past of my story, this will be the 
more easily believed, when I shall add, that through all the variety 
of miseries that had to this day befallen me, I never had so much as 
one thought of it being the hand of God or that it was a just punish- , 
ment for my sin: my rebellious behavior against my father, or my 
present sins, which were great; or so much as a punishment for the 
general course of my wicked life. When I was on the desperate ex- 
pedition on the desert shores of Africa, I never had so much as (me 
thought of what would become of me; or one wish to God to direct 
me whither I should go or to keep me from the danger which appar- 
ently surrounded me, as well from voracious creatures as cruel sav- 
ages. But 1 was merely thoughtless of a God, or a Providence; acted 
like a mere brute from the principles of Nature and by the dictates 
of commcm sense only, and indeed hardly that. 

When I was delivered and taken up at sea by the Portugal captain, 
well used and dealt justly and honorably with, as well as charitably, 

I had not the least thankfulness in my thoughts. When again I was 
shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning on this island, I was 
as far from remorse or looking on it as a judgment; I only said to 
myself often that 1 was an unfortunate dog and bom to be always 
miserable. 

It is true, when I got cm shore first here and found aU my ^p’s 
crew drowned and myself spared, I was surprised with a kind of 
ecstasy and some transports of soul which, had the grace of God as- 
sisted, migjit have come up to true thankfulness; but it ended where 
it begun, in a mere common flight of joy, or, as I may say, being 
glad / was o/ive, without the least reflection upon the distinguishing 
goodness of die hand which had preserved me and had an|^ me 
out to be preserved when aU the rest were destroyed; or an inquiry 

59 



Daniel Defoe 

why Providence had been thus merciful to me; even just the same 
common sort of joy which seamen generally have after they are got 
safe ashore from a shipwreck, which they drown all in the next bowl 
of punch and forget almost as soon as it is over; and all the rest of my 
life was like it. 

Even when I was afterward, on due consideration, made sensible 
of my condition, how I was cast on this dreadful place, out of the 
reach of human kind, out of all hope of relief or prospect of redemp- 
tion, as soon as I saw but a prospect of living and that I should not 
starve and perish for hunger, all the seiise of my affliction wore off, 
and I began to be very easy, applied myself to the works proper for 
my preservation and supply and was far enough from being afflicted 
at my condition, as a judgment from Heaven, or as the hand of Gcyl 
against me; these were thoughts which very seldom entered into mV 
head. 

The growing up of the com, as is hinted in my journal, had at 
first some little influence upon me, and began to affect me with seri- 
ousness, as long as I thought it had something miraculous in it; but 
as soon as ever that part of the thought was removed, all the im- 
pression which was raised from it wore off also, as I have noted 
already. 

Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more terrible in its 
nature or more immediately directing to the invisible Power which 
alone directs such things, yet no sooner was the first fright over but 
the impression it had made went off also. 1 had no more sense of 
God or His judgments, much less of the present affliction of my 
circumstances being from His hand, than if 1 had been in the most 
prosperous condition of life. 

But now, when I began to be sick and a leisurely view of the 
miseries of death came to place itself before me; when my spirits 
began to sink under the burden of a strong distemper and nature 
was exhausted with the violence of the fever; conscience that had 
slept so long began to awake, and I began to reproach myself with 
my past life, in which I had so evidently, by .uncommon wicked- 
ness, provoked the justice of God to lay me under uncommon strokes 
and to deal with me in so vindictive a manner. 

These reflections oppressed me for the second or third day of my 
distemper, and in the violence as well of the fever as of the dread- 
ful reproadies of my conscience extorted some words from me, like 
praying to God, though I cannot say they were either a prayer at- 

60 



Robinson Crusoe 

tended with desiies or with hopes; it was rather the voice of mere 
fright and distress; my thoughts were confused, the convictions great 
upon my mind, and the horror of dying in such a miserable condition 
raised vapors into my head with the mere apprehensions; and in 
these hurries of my soul I know not what my tongue might express; 
but it was rather exclamation, such as, “Lord! what a miserable 
creature am I! If I should be sick, I shall certainly die for want of 
help, and what will become of me?” Then the tears burst out of my 
eyes, and I could say no more for a good while. 

In this interval, the good advice of my father came to my mind, 
and presently his prediction, which I mentioned at the beginning of 
this story, viz., that if I did take this foolish step, God would not bless 
me, and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neg- 
lected his coimsel, when there might be none to assist in my recovery. 
“Now,” said I aloud, “my dear father’s words are come to pass, 
God’s justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me. 
I rejected the voice of Providence, which had mercifi^y put me in 
a posture or station of life wherein I might have been happy and 
easy; but I would neither see it myself or learn to know the blessing 
of it from my parents; I left them to mourn over my folly, and now 
I am left to mourn under the consequences of it. I refused their help 
and assistance who would have lifted me into the world and would 
have made everything easy to me, and now I have difficulties to strug- 
gle with, too great for even nature itself to support, and no assistance, 
no help, no comfort, no advice.” Then I cried out, “Lord, be my 
help, for I am in great distress.” 

This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had made for 
many years. But I return to my journal. 

June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I 
had had, and the fit being entirely oil, I got up; and though the 
fright and terror of my dream was very great, yet I considered that 
the fit of the ague would return again the next day, and now was 
my time to get something to refresh and support myself when I 
should be ill; and the first thing I did, I filled a large square case- 
bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed; and 
to take off the chill or aguish disposition of the water, I put about 
a quarter of a pint of rum into it and mixed them together; then I got 
me a piece of the goat’s flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but could 
eat very little; I walked about, but was very weak and withal very 
sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable condition, dread- 

61 



Daniel Defoe 

ing the return of my distemper the next day. At night 1 made my 
supper of turtle’s eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and ate, as we 
call it, in the shell; and this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked 
God’s blessing to, even as I could remember, in my whole life. 

After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so weak that 
I could hardly carry the gun (for I never went out without that); so 
I went but a little way, and sat down upon the ground, looking out 
upon the sea, which was just before me and very calm and smooth. 
As I sat here, some thou^ts as these occulted to me. / 

What is this earth and sea, of which I have seen so much? Whence 
is it produced? And what am I and all the other creatures, wild and 
tame, human and brutal, whence are we? \ 

Sure we are all made by some secret Power who formed the earth \ 
and sea, the air and sky; and who is that? ' 

Then it followed most naturally. It is God that has made it all. 
Well, but then, it came on strangely, if God has made all these 
things. He guides and governs them all and all things that concern 
them; for the Power that could make all things must certainly have 
power to guide and direct them. 

If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of His works either 
without His knowledge or appointment. 

And if nothing happens without His knowledge. He knows that I 
am here and am in this dreadful condition, and if nothing happens 
without His appointment. He has appointed all this to befall me. 

Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict any of these con- 
clusions; and therefore it rested upon me with the greater force that 
it must needs be that God had appointed all this to befall me; that I 
was brought to this miserable circumstance by His direction. He hav- 
ing the sole power, not of me only, but of everything that happened 
in the world. Immediately it followed: 

Why has God done this to me? What have / done to be thus 
used? 

My conscience presently checked me in that inquiry, as if I had 
blasphemed, and methought it spoke to me like a voice: “Wretch! 
dost thou ask what thou hast done? Look back upon a dreadful mis- 
spent life and ask thyself what thou hast not done; ask, why is it that 
thou wert not long ago destroyed? Why wert thou not drowned in 
Yarmouth Roads? l^ed in the fight when the ship was taken by the 
Sal^ man-of-war? devoured by the wild beasts on the coast of A&ka? 

62 



Robinson Crusoe 

or drowned here, when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou 
ask. What have I done?” 

I was struck dumb with these reflections, as one astonished, and 
had not a word to say, no, not to answer to myself, but rose up 
pensive and sad, walked back to my reti'eat, and went up over my 
wall, as if I had been going to bed, but my thougjhts were sadly dis- 
turbed and I had no inclination to sleep; so I sat down in my chair 
and lifted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now as the apprehen- 
sion of the return of my distemper terrified me very much, it oc- 
curred to my thought that the Brazilians take no physic but their 
tobacco, for almost all distempers; and I had a piece of a roll of 
tobacco in one of the chests which was quite cured and some also 
that was green and not quite cured. 

I went, directed by Heaven no doubt; for in this chest I foimd a 
cure for both soul and body. I opened the chest, and found what T 
looked for, viz., the tobacco; and as the few books I had saved lay 
there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before and 
which to this time 1 had not found leisure, or so much as inclination, 
to look into; I say, I took it out, and brought both that and the tobacco 
with me to the table. 

What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to my distemper, 
or whether it was good for it or no; but I tried several experiments 
with it as if I was resolved it should hit one way or other. I first took 
a piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which indeed at first 
almost stupefied my brain, the tobacco being green and strong and 
that I had not been much used to it; then I took some and steeped 
it an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when 
I lay down; and lastly, I burned some upon a pan of coals and held 
my nose close over the smoke of it, as long as I could bear it as well 
for the heat as almost for suffocation. 

In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible and began to 
read, but my head was too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear 
reading, at least that time; only having opened the book casually, 
the first words that occurred to me were these, “Call on Me in tte 
day of trouble, and I wiU deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me.” 

The words were very apt to my case, and made some impression 
upon my thoughts at the time of reading them, though not so much 
as they did afterward; for as for being delivered, the word had no 
sound, as I may say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible 

63 



Daniel Defoe 

in my apprehension of things that I began to say, as the children of 
Israel did when they were promised flesh to eat, “Can God spread a 
table in the wilderness?”; so I began to say, “Can God Himself 
deliver me from this place?” and as it was not for many years that 
any hope appeared, this prevaUed very often upon my thoughts. 
But however, the words made a great impression upon me, and I 
mused upon them very often. It grew now late, and the tobacco had, 
as I said, dozed my head so much that I inclined to sleep; so I left my 
lamp burning in the cave lest I should, want anything in the ni^t 
and went to bed; but before I lay down, I did what I never had d^e 
in all my life; 1 kneeled down and prayed to God to fulfill the promue 
to me, that if I called upon Him in the day of trouble. He would de- 
liver me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was over, I drank 
the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco, which was so strong and^ 
rank of the tobacco that indeed I could scarce get it down; immedi- 
ately upon this I went to bed; I found presently it flew up in my head 
violently, but I fell into a sound sleep and waked no more till by the 
sun it must necessarily be near three o’clock in the afternoon the 
next day; nay, to this hour I’m partly of the opinion that I slept all 
the next day and night, and tm almost three that day after; for , 
otherwise I knew not how I should lose a day out of my reckoning ' 
in the days of the week, as it appeared some years after I had done; 
for if I had lost it by crossing and re-crossing the line, I should have 
lost more than one day. But certainly I lost a day in my account and 
never knew which way. 

Be that, however, one way or the other, when I awaked I found 
myself exceedingly refreshed and my spirits lively and cheerful; when 
I got up, I was stronger than I was the day before and my stomach 
better, for I was hungry; and in short, I had no fit the next day, but 
continued much altered for the better. . . . 

July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not re- 
cover my full strength for some weeks after; while I was gathering 
strength, my thoughts ran exceedingly upon this Scripture, “I will de- 
liver thee,” and the impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon 
my mind, in bar of my ever expecting it. But as I was discouraging 
myself with such thoughts, it occurred to my mind, that I pored so 
much upon my deliverance from the main affliction that I disre- 
garded the deliverance I had received; and I was, as it were, made 
to ask myself such questions as these, viz.: Have I not been de- 
livered, and wonderfully, too, from sickness? from the most dis- 

64 



Robinson Crusoe 

tressed condition that could be and that was so frightful to me? And 
what notice had I taken of it? Had I done my part? God had de- 
livered me, but I bad not glorified Him; that is to say, I had not 
owned and been thankful for that as a deliverance, and how could 
I expect greater deliverance? 

This touched my heart very much, and immediately I kneeled 
down and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from my sickness. 

July 4. In the morning I took the Bible, and beginning at the 
New Testament, I began seriously to read it, and imposed upon 
myself to read a while every morning and every night, not tying my- 
self to the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts should en- 
gage me. It was not long after I set seriously to this work, but I found 
my heart more deeply and sincerely affected with the wickedness of 
ray past life. The impression of my dream revived, and the words, 
“All these things have not brought thee to repentance,” ran seriously • 
in my thought. I was earnestly begging of God to give me repentance, 
when it happened providentially the very day that reading the 
Scripture, I came to these words, “He is exalted a Prince and a 
Saviour, to give repentance, and to give remission.” I threw down 
the book, and with my heart as well as my bands lifted up to Heaven, 
in a kind of ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, “Jesus, Thou Son of 
David, Jesus, Thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me repentance!” 

This was the first time that I could say, in the true sense of the 
words, that I prayed in all my life; for now I prayed with a sense of 
my condition and with a true Scripture view of hope founded on the 
encouragement of the Word of God; and from this time, 1 may say, 

I began to have hope that God would hear me. 

Now I began to construe the words mentioned above, “Call on 
Me, and I will deliver thee,” in a different sense from what I had ever 
done before; for then I had no notion of anything being called de- 
liverance but my being delivered from the captivity I was in; for 
though I was indeed at large in the place, yet the island was certainly 
a prison to me, and that in the worst sense in the world; but now I 
learned to take it in anodier sense. Now I looked back upon my past 
life with such horror, and my sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul 
sought nothing of God but deliverance from the load of guilt that 
bore down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing; 
I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it or think of it; it 
was all of no consideration in comparison to this. And 1 add tins 
part here, to hint to whoever shall read it, that whenever tiiey come 

65 



Daniel Defoe 

to a true sense of things, they will find deliverance from sin a much 
greater blessing than deliverance from afiiiction. . . . 

A More Perfect Discovery of the Island 

I HAD BEEN NOW in this unhappy island above ten months; all posa> 
bility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely 
taken from me; and I firmly believed that no human shape had ever 
set foot upon that place. Having now soured my habitation, as I 
thouglit, fully to my mind, I had a great desire to make a more per- 
fect discovery of the island and to see what other productions I mi^t 
find, which I yet knew nothing of. 

It was the ISth July that I began to take a more particular survey 
of the island itself. I went op the creek first, where, as 1 hinted, I 
brought my rafts on shore; I found after I came about two miles up 
that the tide did not flow any higher and that it was no more than a 
little brook of running water, and very fresh and good; but this being 
the dry season, there was hardly any water in some parts of it, at 
least, not enough to run in any stream so as it could be perceived., 
On the bank of this brook I found many pleasant savannas, or' 
meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass; and on the rising 
parts of them next to the higher grounds, where the water, as it might 
be supposed, never overflowed, 1 found a great deal of tobacco, green 
and growing to a great and very strong stalk; there were divers other 
plants, which I had no notion of, or understanding about, and might 
perhaps have virtues of their own, which I could not find out. . . . 

At the end of this march I came to an opening, where the country 
seemed to descend to the west, and a little spring of fresh water, which 
issued out of the side of the hill by me, run the other way, that is, due 
east; and the country appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing, 
everything being in a constant verdure, or flourish of spring, that it 
looked like a planted garden. 

I descended a little on the side of that delicioBS vale, surveying it 
with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with my other afflir ting 
thoughts), to think that this was all my own, that I was king and lord 
of all this country indefeasibly and had a right of possession; and if 
I could convey it, I might have it in inheritance, as completely as miy 
lord of a manor in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa trees, 
orange and lemon and citron trees; but all wild and very few bear- 

66 



Robinson Crusoe 

ing any fruit, at least not then. However, the green limes that I 
gathered were not only pleasant to eat but very wholesome; and I 
mixed their juice afterward with water, which made it very whole- 
some and very cool and refreshing. . . . 

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with great 
pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley and the pleasantness of the 
situation, the security from storms on that side, the water and the 
wood, and concluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode 
which was by far the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I 
began to consider of removing my habitation; and to look out for a 
place equally safe as where I now was situate, if possible, in that 
pleasant fruitful part of the island. 

This thought ran long in my head, and I was exceeding fond of 
it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempting me; but when 
I came to a nearer view of it and to consider that I was now by the 
seaside, where it was at least possible that something might ha[q)en 
to my advantage, and by the same ill fate that brought me hi&er 
might bring some other imhappy wretches to the same place; and 
though it was scarce probable that any such thing should ever hap- 
pen, yet to enclose myself among the hills and woods, in the center 
of the island, was to anticipate my bondage and to render such an 
affair not only improbable but impossible; and that therefore I ought 
not by any means to remove. 

However, I was so enamored of this place that I spent much of my 
time there, for the whole remaming part of the month of July; and 
though upon second thoughts I resolved as above not to remove, yet 
1 bufft me a little kind of a bower and surrounded it at a distance 
with a strong fence, being a double hedge as high as I could reach, 
well staked and filled between with brushwood; and here I lay very 
secure, sometimes two or three nights together, always going over it 
with a ladder, as before; so that I fancied now I had my country 
house and my seacoast house. And this work took me up to the b^ 
ginning of August. ... 

In this season I was much surprised with the increase of my fam- 
ily; I had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats, who run 
away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead, and I heard no more 
tate or tidings of her till, to my astonishment, she came home about 
die rad of August, with three kittens; this was the nmre sh-ange to 
me, because, though I had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my 
gun, yet 1 thought it was a quite different kind from our Eurc^tean 

67 



Daniel Defoe 

cats; yet the young cats were the same kind of house breed like the 
old one; and both my cats being females, I thought it very strange. 
But from these three cats, I afterwards came to be so pestered with 
cats that I was forced to kill them like vermin or wild beasts and to 
drive them from my house as much as possible. 

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain, so that I 
coidd not stir and was now very careful not to be much wet. . . . 

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I worked daily 
two or &ibe hours at enlarging my cave, apd by degrees worked it 
on toward one side, till I came to the outside of the hill, and made 
a door or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall, and so i 
came in and out this way; but I was not perfectly easy at lying so\ 
open; for as I had managed myself before, I was in a perfect en-\ 
closure, whereas now I thought I lay exposed and open for anything \ 
to come in upon me; and yet I could not perceive that there was any 
living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I had yet seen upon the 
island being a goat. 

September 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniversary 
of my landing. I cast up the notches on my post, and found I had 
been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as 
a solemn fast, setting it apart to religious exercise, prostrating myself 
on the ground with the most serious humiliation, confessing my sins 
to God, acknowledging His righteous judgments upon me and pray- 
ing to Him to have mercy on me throu^ Jesus Christ; and having 
not tasted the least refreslunent for twelve hours, even till the going 
down of the sun, I then ate a biscuit cake and a bunch of grapes 
and went to bed, finishing the day as 1 began it. 

I had all this time observed no Sabbath day; for as at first I had 
no sense of religion upon my mind, I had after some time omitted to 
distinguish the weeks by making a longer notch than ordinary for the 
Sabbath day, and so did not really know what any of the days were; 
but now having cast up the days, as above, I found I had been there 
a year; so I divided it into weeks, and set apart every seventh day for 
a Sabbath; though I found at the end of my account I had lost a 
day or two in my reckoning. 

A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so I contented my- 
self to use it more sparingly, and to write down only the most remark- 
able events of my life, without continuing a daily memorandum of 
other things. 

The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear regular 

68 



Robinson Crusoe 

to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide for them ac- 
cordingly. But I bought all my experience before I had it; and this 
I am going to relate was one of the most discouraging experiments 
that I made at all. I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears 
of barley and rice, which I had so surprisingly found spring up, as I 
thought, of themselves, and believe there was about thirty stalks of 
rice and about twenty of barley; and now I thought it a proper time 
to sow it after the rains, the sun being in its soudiem position, going 
from me. 

Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground as well as I could with my 
wooden spade, and dividing it into two parts, I sowed my grain; but 
as I was sowing, it casually occurred to my thoughts that I would not 
sow it all at first, because I did not know when was the proper time 
for it; so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed, leaving about a hand- 
ful of each. 

It was a great comfort to me afterward that I did so, for not one 
grain of that 1 sowed this time came to anything; for the dry months 
following, the earth having had no rain after the seed was sown, it 
had no moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at all till the 
wet season had come again, and then it grew as if it had been but 
newly sown. 

Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily imagined was 
by the drought, I sought for a moister piece of ground to make an- 
other trial in, and I dug up a piece of ground near my new bower 
and sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little before the vernal 
equinox; and this, having the rainy mon^s of March and April to 
water it, sprung up very pleasantly and yielded a very good crop; but 
having part of the seed left only, and not daring to sow all that I 
had, I had but a small quantity at last, my whole crop not amounting 
to above half a peck of each kind. 

But by this experiment I was made master of my business, and 
knew exactly when the proper season was to sow; and that I migfht 
expect two seed times, and two harvests every year. 

While this com was growing, I made a litde discovery which was 
of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over and die 
weather began to settle, which was about the month of November, 
I made a visit up the country to my bower, where ... the stakes 
which I had cut out of some trees that grew thereabouts were all shot 
out and grown with long branches. . . . Cutting some of the smallM 
twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could desire; . . . 

69 



Daniel Defoe 

these I set up to dry within my circle or hedge, and when they were 
fit for use, I carried them to my cave, and here during the nestt season 
I employed myself in making, as well as I could, a great many baskets, 
both to carry earth or to carry or lay up anything as I had occasion; 
and though 1 did not finish them very handsomely, yet I made them 
sufficiently serviceable for my purpose; and thus afterwards I took 
care never to be without them. . . . 

I mentioned before that 1 had a great mind to see the whole island 
and that I had traveled up the brook and so. on to where I built my 
bower and where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the other si(» 
of the island; I now resolved to travel quite cross to the seashore on 
that side; so taking my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a largen 
quantity of powder and shot than usual, with two biscuit cakes and a\ 
great bunch of raisins in my pouch for my store, I began my journey. \ 
When I had passed the vale where my bower stood, as above, I came 
within view of the sea to the west, and it being a very clear day, I 
fairly descried land, whether an island or a continent I could not 
tell; but it lay very high, extending from the west to the west-south- 
west, at a very great distance; by my guess it could not be less than 
fifteen or twenty leagues off. 

I could not tell what part of the world this might be, otherwise than 
that I knew it must be part of America and, as I concluded by all 
my observations, must be near the Spanish dominions and perhaps 
was all inhabited by savages, where if 1 should have landed, I had 
been in a worse condition than I was now; and therefore I acquiesced 
in the dispositions of Providence, which, I began now to own and to 
believe, ordered everything for the best; I say, I quieted my mind 
with this, and left afflicting myself with fruitless wishes of being there. 

Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I considered ffiat if this 
land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly, one time or other, see 
some vessel pass or repass one way or other; but if not, then it was 
the savage coast between the Spanish country and Brazils, whidi are 
indeed the worst of savages; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, 
Btul fail not to murder and devour all the human bodies that fall into 
thdr hands. 

With these conMderations 1 walked very leisurely forward. 1 found 
that side of the island, where I now was, mudi pleasanter than thine, 
the opm or savanna fields sweet, adorned with flowers and grass and 
fttD of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and fain I would 
have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame and taught it 

70 



Robinson Crusoe 

to speak to me. I did, after some painstaking, catdi a young parrot, 
for I knocked it down with a stick, and having recovered it, I brought 
it home; but it was some years before I could make him speak. How- 
ever, at last I taught him to call me by my name very familiarly. But 
the accident that followed, though it be a trifle, will be very diverting 
in its place. 

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found in the low 
grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes, but they differed 
greatly from all the other kinds 1 had met with; nor could I satisfy 
myself to eat them, though I killed several. But I had no need to be 
venturous; for I had no want of food, and of that which was very 
good too; especially these three sorts, viz., goats, pigeons, and turtle 
or tortoise; which, added to my grapes, Leadenhall Market could not 
have furnished a table better than I, in proportion to the company; 
and though my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause for ' 
thankfulness, and that I was not driven to any extremities for food; 
but rather plenty, even to dainties. 

I never traveled in this journey above two miles outri^t In a day, 
or thereabouts; but I took so many turns and returns, to see what 
discoveries I could make, that I came weary enough to the place 
where I resolved to sit down for all night; and then I either reposed 
myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row of stakes set up- 
right in the groimd, either from one tree to another, or so as no wild 
creature could come at me without waking me. 

As soon as I came to the seashore, 1 was surprised to see that I 
had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island; for here indeed 
the shore was covered with innumerable turtles, whereas on the other 
side I had found but three in a year and a half. Here was also an 
infinite number of fowls of many kinds, some which I had seen, and 
some which I had not seen of tefore, and many of them very good 
meat; but such as I knew not the names of, except those call^ pen- 
guins. ... 

I took another way to come back than that I vent, thinking I could 
easily keep all tl^ island so much in my view that I could not miss 
finding my first dwelling by viewing the country. But I found myself 
mistaken; for being come about two or three miles, I found myself 
descended into a very largn valley, but so surroumkd wifii hiHs, and 
those hills covered ndth wood, that I could not see whidi was my 
way by any direction but that of the sun, nor even fiimi, unless I knew 
very well the position of the sun at that time of the day. 


71 



Daniel Defoe 

It happened to my farther misfortune that the weather proved hazy 
for three, or four days while I was in this valley; and not being able 
to see the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortably and at last was 
obliged to find out the seaside, and come back the same way I went; 
and then by easy journeys I turned homeward, the weather being 
exceeding hot and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other things 
very heavy. . . . 

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come into my 
old hutch and lie down in my hammock-bed. This little wandering 
journey, without settled place of abode, had been so unpleasant to 
me that my own house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settle- 
ment to me compared to that; and it rendered everything about me 
so comfortable that I resolved I would never go a great way from i^ 
again while it should be my lot to stay on the island. ... \ 

I Began My Third Year 

T he rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come, and I 
kept the 30th of September in the same solemn manner as before, 
being the anniversary of my landing on the island, having now been 
there two years, and no more prospect of being delivered than the 
first day I came there. I spent the whole day in humble and thankful 
acknowledgments of the many wonderful mercies which my solitary 
condition was attended with and without which it might have been 
infinitely more miserable. I gave humble and hearty thanks that God 
had been pleased to discover to me even that it was possible 1 might 
be more happy in this solitary condition than I should have been in 
a liberty of society and in all the pleasures of the world; that He 
could fully make up to me the deficiencies of my solitary state and 
the want of human socie^ by His presence and Ae communications 
of His grace to my soul, supporting, comforting, and encouraging me 
to depend upon His Providence here and hope for His eternal pres- 
ence hereafter. — 

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more happy 
this hfe I now led was, with all its miserable circumstances, than the 
wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the past part of my days; 
and now 1 changed both my sorrows and my joys; my very desires 
altoed, my affections changed their gusts and my delights were per- 

72 



Robinson Crusoe 

fectly new, from 'H;hat they were at my first coming, or indeed for the 
two years past. 

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting or for viewing 
the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition would break out 
upon me on a sudden, and my very heart would die within me to 
think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts 1 was in; and how I 
was a prisoner locked up with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean 
in an uninhabited wilderness, without redemption. In the midst of the 
greatest composures of my mind, this would break out upon me like 
a storm and make me wring my hands and weep like a child. Some* 
times it would take me in ^e middle of my work, and I would im- 
mediately sit down and sigh and look upon the ground for an hour 
or two together; and this was still worse to me, for if I could burst 
out into tears or vent myself by words, it would go off, and the grief 
having exhausted itself would abate. 

But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts; I daily read 
the Word of God and applied all the comforts of it to my present 
state. One morning, being very sad, I opened the Bible upon these 
words, “I wiU never, never leave thee, nor forsake thee”; immediately 
it occurred that these words were to me; why else should they be 
directed in such a manner, just at the moment when I was mourning 
over my condition, as one forsaken of God and man? “Well then,” 
said I, “if God does not forsake me, of what ill consequence can it be 
or what matters it though the world should all forsake me, seeing on 
the other hand, if I had all the world and should lose the favor and 
blessing of God, there would be no comparison in the loss?” 

From this moment I began to conclude in my mind that it was 
possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken solitary condition 
than it was probable I should ever have been in any other particular 
state in the world; and with this thou^t I was going to give thanks 
to God for bringing me to this place. . . . 

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year; and 
though I have not given the reader the trouble of so particular ac- 
count of my works this year as the first, yet in general it may be ob- 
served that I was very seldom idle; but having regularly divided my 
time, according to the several daily employments that were before 
me, such as, first, my duty to God and the reading the Scriptures, 
which I constantly set apart some time for thrice every day; secondly, 
the going abroad with my gun for food, which generally took me up 

73 



Daniel Defoe 

three hours in every morning, when it did not rain; thirdly, the order- 
ing, curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or caught for 
my supply; these took up great part of the day; also it is to be con- 
sidered that the middle of the day when the sun was in the zenith, 
the violence of the heat was too great to stir out; so that about four 
hours in the evening was all the time I could be supposed to work in; 
with this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting 
and working and went to work in the morning and abroad with my 
gun in the afternoon. ... . / 

I was now, in the months of November and December, expecting 
my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had manured or dug up 
for them was not great; for as I observed, my seed of each was ncn 
above the quantity of half a peck; for I had lost one whole crop by 
sowing in the dry season; but now my crop promised very well, when\ 
on a sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all again by enemies 
of several sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it; at first, 
the goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who, tasting the 
sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it came up, 
and ate it so close that it could get no time to shoot up into stalk. . . . 

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few days they 
would devour all my hopes, that I should be starved and never be 
able to raise a crop at aU, and what to do I could not tell. However, 

I resolved not to lose my com, if possible, though I should watch 
it night and day. In the first place, I went among it to see what 
damage was already done and found they had spoiled a good deal 
of it, but that as it was yet too green for them, the loss was not so 
great, but that the remainder was like to be a good crop if it could 
be saved. 

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away I could 
easily see other thieves sitting upon the trees about me, as if they 
only waited till I was gone away, and the event proved it to be so; 
for as I walked off as if I was gone, I was no sooner out of their 
sight but they dropped down one by one into the com again. I was so 
provoked that I could not have patience to stay till more came on, 
knowing that every grain that they ate now was, as it mi^t be said, 
a peck-loaf to me in the consequence; but coming up to the hedge, I 
fixed a^ain, and killed three of them. This was what I wished for; so 
1 took them up and served them as we serve notorious thieves in 
England, viz., hanged them in chains for a terrmr to otters; it is im- 
possible to ima^e, almost, that this should have such an effect as 

74 



Robinson Crusoe 

it bad; for the fowls would not only not come at the com but, in 
short, they forsook all that part of the island and I could never see 
a bird near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there. 

This I was very glad of, you may be sure, and about the latter end 
of December, wUch was our second harvest of the year, I reaped 
my crop. . . . 

I had now seed enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I 
did this, I had a week’s work at least to make me a spade, whidi 
when it was done was but a sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and 
required double labor to work with it; however, I went throu^ that 
and sowed my seed in two large fiat pieces of ground, as near my 
house as I could find them to my mind, and fenced them in with a 
good hedge, the stakes of which were all cut of that wood which I 
had set before, and knew it would grow; so that in one year’s time I 
knew I should have a quick or living hedge that would want but little' 
repair. This work was not so little as to take me up less than three 
months, because great part of that time was of the wet season, when 
I could not go abroad. 

Within doors, that is, when it rained, and I could not go out, I 
found employment on the following occasions; always observing, that 
all the while I was at work I diverted myself with talking to my 
parrot and teaching him to speak, and I quickly taught him to know 
Ids own name and at last to speak it out pretty loud, “Poll,” which 
was the first word I ever heard spoken in the island by any mouth 
but my own. This therefore was not my work, but an assistant to my 
work, for now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my hand, 
as follows, viz., I had long studied, by some means or other, to make 
myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted sorely, but knew 
not where to come at them. However, considering the heat of the 
climate, I did not doubt but if I could find out any such clay, I might 
botch up some such pot, as might, being dried in the sun, be hard 
enough and strong enough to bear handling, and to hold anything 
that was dry, and required to be kept so; and as this was necessary 
in the preparing com, meal, etc., which was the thing I was upon, I 
resolved to make some as large as I could and fit only to stand like 
jars, to hold what should be put into them. 

It would make the reader pity me, or ratho: laug^ at me, to tell 
how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste; what odd, mis* 
shapen, ug^y filings I made; how many of them fell in, and how many 
fell out, the day not being stiff enough to bear its own wdg^; how 

75 



Daniel Defoe 

many cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun, being set out too 
hastily; and how many fell in pieces with only removing, as well 
before as after they were dried; and in a word, how after having 
labored hard to find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home 
and work it, I could not make above two large earthen ugly things, 
I cannot call them jars, in about two months’ labor. . . . 

This set me to studying how to order my fire, so as to make it 
bum me some pots. I had no notion of a kiln such as the potters bum 
in or of glazing them with lead, though had some lead to dd it 
with; but I placed three large pipkins and two or three pots in a mle 
one upon another and placed my firewood all round it with a grmt 
heap of embers under them; 1 pUed the fire with fresh fuel rouim 
the outside and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red 
hot quite through, and observed that they did not crack at all; wheA 
I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five or six 
hours, till I found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or 
run, for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the vio- 
lence of the heat, and would have run into ^ass if I had gone on; so 
I slacked my fire gradually till the pots began to abate of the red 
color; and watching them all night that I might not let the fire abate i 
too fast, in the morning I had Aree very good, I will not say hand- 
some, pipkins and two other earthen pots, as hard burned as could 
be desired; and one of them perfectly grazed with the running of the 
sand. 

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted any sort of 
earthenware for my use; but I must needs say, as to the shapes of 
them, they were very indifferent, as anyone may suppose, when I 
had no way of making them but as the children make dirt pies or as 
a woman would make pies that never learned to raise paste. 

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine, 
when 1 found 1 had made an earthen pot that would bear the fire; 
and I had hardly patience to stay till they were cold, before I set one 
upon the fire again, with some water in it, to boil me some meat, 
which it did admirably well; and with a piece of a kid I made some 
very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal and several other ingre- 
dients requisite to make it so good as I would have had it be. 

My next concern was to get me a good mortar to stamp or beat 
some com in; for as to the mill, there was no diought at turiving to 
diat perfection of art with one pair of hands. To supply this want I 
. . . resolved to look out for a great block <rf hard wood, whidi I 

76 



Robinson Crusoe 

found indeed much easier; and getting one as big as I had strength 
to stir, I rounded it, and formed it in the outside with my ax and 
hatchet, and then with the help of fire, and infinite labor, made a 
hollow place in it, as the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After 
this, I made a great heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood called the 
iron-wood, and this I prepared and laid by against I had my next 
crop of com, when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, 
my com into meal, to make my bread. 

My next difficulty was to make a sieve to dress my meal and to 
part it from the bran and the husk, without which I did not see it 
possible I could have any bread. This was a most difficult thing, so 
much as but to think on; for to be sure, I had nothing like the nec- 
essary thing to make it. . . . And here I was at a full stop for many 
monffis, nor did I reaUy know what to do; ... at last I did remem- 
ber 1 had among the seamen’s clothes which were saved out of the ' 
ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin; and with some pieces of 
these, I made three small sieves, but proper enough for the work; 
and thus I made shift for some years. . . . 

The baking part was the next thing to be considered and how I 
should make bread when I came to have com; for, first, I bad no 
yeast; as to that part, as there was no supplying the want, so I did 
not concern myself much about it; but for an oven I was indeed in 
great pain; at length I found out an experiment for that also, which 
was this; I made some earthen vessels very broad, but not deep; that 
is to say, about two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep; 
these I burned in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid them 
by; and when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon my hearth, 
which I had paved with some square tiles of my own making and 
burning also; but I should not call them square. 

When the firewood was burned pretty much into embers, or live 
coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as to cover it all 
over, and there I let them lie, till the hearth was very hot; then 
sweeping away all the embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and 
whelming down the earthen pot upon them, drew the embers all 
round the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the heat; and 
thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my barley 
loaves, and became in little time a mere pastry-cook into ffie bargain; 
for I made myself several cakes of the rice and puddings. . . . 

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took me up most 
part of the third year of my abode here; for it is to be observed 

77 



Daniel Defoe 

&at in the intervals of these things I had my new harvest and hus> 
bandry to manage; for I reaped my com in its season and carried it 
home as well as I could and laid it up. . . . 

My Desire to Venture Over the Main 

A ll the while these things were doing, you may be sure my 
k. thoughts ran many times upon the pi;ospect of land which I l^d 
seen from the other side of the island, and I was not without secret 
wishes that I were on shore there, fancying that seeing the mainl^d 
and an inhabited country, I might find some way or other to convm 
myself farther, and perhaps at last find some means of escape. \ 
But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of such a 
condition, and how I might fall into the hands of savages, and per- 
haps such as I might have reason to think far worse than the lions 
and tigers of Africa. That if I once came into their power, I should 
run a hazard more than a thousand to one of being killed and per- 
haps of being eaten; for I had heard that the people of the Caribbean 
coasts were cannibals, or man-eaters, and I knew by the latitude that i 
I could not be far off from that shore. That suppose they were not 
cannibals, yet that they might kill me, as many Europeans who had 
fallen into their hands had been served, even when they had been 
ten or twenty together; much more I, that was but one, and could 
make little or no defense. All these things, I say, which I ought to 
have considered well of and did cast up in my thoughts afterwards 
yet took up none of my apprehensions at first; but my bead run 
mightily upon the thought of getting over to the shore. . . . 

This at length put me upon thinking whether it was not possible to 
make myself a canoe, or periagua, of the trunk of a great tree. . . . 

One would have thought I could not have had the least reflection 
upon my mind of my circumstance, while I was making this boat; 
but I should have immediately thougjbt how I should get it into the 
sea; but my thoughts were so intent upon my Toyage over the sea 
in it that I never once considered how 1 should get it off of the land; 
and was really in its own nature more easy for me to guide it over 
forty-five miles of sea diw about forty-five fathoms of land, where 
it lay, to set it afloat in the water. 

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man 
did, who had any of bis senses awake. I pleased myself with the desi^, 

78 



Robinson Crusoe 

without determining whether I was ever able to undertake it; not 
but that the difficulty of launching my boat came often into my head; 
but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it, by this foolish answer 
which I gave myself, “Let’s first make it; I’ll warrant lH find smne 
way or other to get it along, when ’tis done.” 

This was a most preposterous method; but die eagerness of my 
fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled a cedar tree. I quesdcm 
much whether Solomon ever had such a one for the building of the 
Temple at Jerusalem. It was five foot ten inches diameter at the 
lower part next the stump and four foot eleven inches diameter at 
the end of twenty-two foot, after which it lessened for a while, and 
then parted into branches. It was not without infinite labor that I 
felled this tree. I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it at the 
bottom. I was fourteen more getting the branches and limbs, and the 
vast spreading head of it cut off, which I hacked and hewed through ' 
with axe and hatchet and inexpressible labor. After this, it cost me a 
month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and to something like 
the bottom of a boat, that it might swim upright as it ought to do. 
It cost me near three months more to clear the inside, and work it 
so as to make an exact boat of it. This I did indeed without fire, by 
mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labor, till I had 
brought it to be a very handsome periagua and big enough to have 
carried six and twenty men, mid consequently big enou^ to have 
carried me and all my cargo. 

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely delisted 
with it. The boat was really much bigger than I ever saw a canoe, or 
periagua, that was made of one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke 
it had cost, you may be sure; and there remained nothing but to get 
it into the water; and had I gotten it into the water, 1 mate no ques- 
tion but I should have begun the maddest voyage and the most un- 
likely to be performed that ever was undertaken. 

But all my devices to get it into the watm: failed me; ffiou^ they 
cost me infinite labor, too. It lay about one hundred yards finan the 
water, and not more. But the first inconvenience was, it was uphill 
toward the creek; well, to take away this discouragement, I resolved 
to dig into the surface of the earth, and so mate a declivity. This I 
begun, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains; but udio grudges 
pains, that have their deliverance in view? But whcm this was worked 
thrtxi^ and this difficulty managed, it was still mudi at one; for I 
could no more stir the canoe than I could the other boat. 


n 



Daniel Defoe 

Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to cut a 
dock, or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I could not 
bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began this work; and when 
I began to enter into it and calculate how deep it was to be dug, how 
broad, how the stuff to be thrown out, I found that by the number 
of hands I had, being none but my own, it must have been ten or 
twelve years before I should have gone through with it; for the shore 
lay high, so that at the upper end it must have been at least twenty 
foot deep; so at length, tiiough with grjs^t reluctancy, I gave tins 
attempt over also. I 

This grieved me heartily, and now I saw, though too late, tm 
folly of beginning a work before we coimt the cost and before we 
judge rightly of our own strength to go through with it. \ 

In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year in this place,\ 
and kept my anniversary with the same devotion and with as much 
comfort as ever before; for by a constant study, and serious applica- 
tion of the Word of God, and by the assistance of His grace, I gained 
a different knowledge from what I had before. I entertained dif- 
ferent notions of things. I looked now upon the world as a thing re- 
mote, which I had nothing to do with, no expectation from, and, in- , 
deed, no desires about. In a word, I had nothing indeed to do with ‘ 
it, nor was ever like to have; so, I thought, it looked as we may per- 
haps look upon it hereafter, viz., as a place I had lived in but was 
come out of it; and well might 1 say, as Father Abraham to Dives, 
“Between me and thee is a great gulf fixed.” 

In the first place, I was removed from all the wickedness of the 
world here. I had neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye or 
the pride of life. I had nothing to covet; for I had all that I was now 
capable of enjoying. I was lord of the whole manor; or if I pleased, 

I might call myself king, or emperor over the whole country whidi I 
had possession of. There were no rivals. I had no competitor, none 
to dispute sovereignty or command with me. I might have raised 
shiploadings of com; but I had no use for it; so I let as little grow as 
I thought enough for my occasion. I had tortoise or turtles enou^; 
but now and then one was as much as I could put to any use. I had 
timber enough to have buih a fleet of ships. I had grapes enough to 
have made wine, or to have cured into raisins, to have loaded that 
fleet, when they had been built. 

But all I could make use of was all that was valuable. I had enough 
to eat, and to supply my wants, and what was all the rest to me? 

80 



Robinson Crusoe 

If I killed more flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat it, or the 
vermin. If I sowed more com than I could eat, it must be spoiled. 
The trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the ground. I could 
make no more use of them than for fuel; and that 1 no occasion 
for but to dress my food. 

In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated to me upon 
just reflection that all the good things of this world are no furAer 
good to us than they are for our use; and that whatever we may heap 
up indeed to give others, we enjoy just as much as we can use, and 
no more. The most covetous griping miser in the world would have 
been cured of the vice of covetousness, if he had been in my case; 
for I possessed infinitely more than I knew what to do with. I had 
not room for desire, except it was of things which 1 had not, and they 
were but trifles, though indeed of great use to me. I had, as I hinted 
before, a parcel of money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-six 
pounds sterling. Alas! There the nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay; I had 
no manner of business for it; and I often thought with myself that 1 
would have given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes or for 
a hand-mill to grind my com; nay, I would have given it ^ for six- 
penny-worth of turnip and carrot seed out of England or for a hand- 
ful of peas and beans and a bottle of ink. As it was, I had not the 
least advantage by it or benefit from it; but there it lay in a drawer 
and grew moldy with the damp of the cave in the wet season; and 
if I had had the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the same case; 
and they had been of no manner of value to me because of no use. 

I had now brought my state of life to be much easier in itself than 
it was at first and much easier to my mind, as well as to my body. 

I frequently sat down to my meat with thankfulness and admired 
the hand of God’s providence, which had thus spread my table in 
the wilderness. I learned to look more upon the bri^t side of my 
condition and less upon the dark side and to consider what I enjoyed 
rather than what I wanted; and this gave me sometimes such secret 
comforts that I cannot express them; and which I take notice of here, 
to put those discontented people in mind of it who cannot enjoy com- 
fortably what God had given them because they see and covet some- 
thing that He has not given them. All our discontmits about what we 
want appeared to me to spring from the want of thankfulness for 
what we have. 

Another reflection was of great use to me and doubtless would be ' 
so to anyone that should fall into such (hstress as mine was; and this 

81 



Daniel Defoe 

was to compare my present condition with what I at first expected 
it should be; nay, with what it would certainly have been, if the good 
providence of God had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast 
up nearer to the shore, where I not only could come at her but could 
bring what I got out of her to the shore for my relief and comfort; 
without which, I had wanted for tools to work, weapons for defense, 
of gunpowder and shot for getting my food. 

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing to my- 
self, in the most lively colors, how I must have acted if I had mt 
nothing out of the ship. How I could not have so much as got my 
food, except fish and turtles; and that, as it was long before I found 
any of them, I must have perished first. That I should have lived, lif 
I had not perished, like a mere savage. That if I had killed a goa^ 
or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way to fiay or open Aem^ 
or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it up; but 
must gnaw it with my teeth and pull it with my claws like a beast. 

These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of Provi- 
dence to me and very thankful for my present condition, with all 
its hardships and misfortunes. And this part also I cannot but recom- 
mend to the reflection of those who are apt in their misery to say, 
“Is any affliction like mine?” Let them consider how much worse the' 
cases of some people are and their case might have been, if Provi- 
dence had thought fit. 

I had another reflection which assisted me also to comfort my 
mind with hopes; and this was comparing my present condition with 
what I had deserved and had therefore reason to expect from the 
hand of Providence. I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute 
of the knowledge and fear of God. I had been well instructed by 
father and mother; neither had they been wanting to me in their 
early endeavors to infuse a religious awe of God into my mind, a 
sense of my duty and of what the nature and end of my being re- 
^quired of me. But alas! falling early into the seafaring life, which of 
^ the lives is the most destitute of the fear of God, though His 
terrors are always before them; I say, falling early into the seafaring 
life and into seafaring company, aU that little sense of reli^on which 
1 had entertained was laughed out of me by my messmates; by a 
hardened despising of dangers and the views of death, which grew 
habitual to me; by my long absence from all manner of opportunities 
to converse with anything but what was like myself or to hear any- 
thing that was good or tended towards it. 

82 



Robinson Crusoe 

So void was I of everything that was good, or of the least s^ise of 
what I was or was to be, that in the greatest deliverances I enjoyed, 
such as my escape from Sal£, my being taken up by the Portuguese 
master of the ship, my being planted so well in the Brazils, my re> 
ceiving the cargo from England and the like, I never had once the 
words, “Thank God,” as much as on my mind or in my mouth; nor in 
the greatest distress had I so much a thouglit to pray to Him or so 
much as to say, “Lord, have mercy upon me”; no, nor to mention 
the name of God, unless it was to swear by and blaspheme it. 

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many months, as 1 
have already observed, on the account of my wicked and hardened 
life past; and when I looked about me and considered what particular 
providences had attended me since my coming into this place, and 
how God had dealt bountifully with me; had not only punished me 
less than my iniquity had deserved, but had so plentifully provided* 
for me; this gave me great hopes that my repentance was accepted, 
and that God had yet mercy in store for me. 

With these reflections I worked my mind up not only to resignation 
to the will of God in the present disposition of my circumstances but 
even to a sincere thankfulness for my condition; and that I, who was 
yet a living man, ought not to complain, seeing I had not the due 
punishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so many mercies which I had 
no reason to have expected in tiiat place; that I ought never more 
to repine at my condition but to rejoice and to give daily thanks for 
that daily bread, which nothing but a crowd of wonders could have 
brought. That I ought to consider I had been fed even by miracle, 
even as great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens; nay, by a long series 
of mirades; and that I could hardy have named a place in the un- 
habitable part of the world where I could have been cast more to my 
advantage. A place, where as I had no society, which was my afflic- 
tion on one hand, so I found no ravenous beast, no furious wolves or 
tigers to threaten my life, no venomous creatures or poisonous wfaidi 
I might feed on to my hurt, no savages to murder and devour me. 

In a word, as my Ufe was a life of sorrow one way, so it was a life 
of mercy another; and I wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort 
but to be able to make my sense of God’s goodness to me, and care 
over me in this condition, be my daily consolation; and after I did 
make a just im{»x>vement oi these things, I went away and was no 
more sad. 

I bad now been here so long that many things whidh I brou^t on 

83 



Daniel Defoe 

shore for my help were either quite gone, or very much wasted and 
near spent. 

My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some time, all but a 
very little, which I eked out with water, a little and a little, till it 
was so pale it scarce left any appearance of black upon the paper. 
As long as it lasted, I made use of it to minute down the days of the 
month on which any remarkable thing happened to me; and first, 
by casting up times past, I remember that there was a strange con- 
currence of days in the various providences which befell me and 
which, if I had been superstitiously inclined to observe days as fatal 
or fortunate, I might have had reason to have looked upon witn a 
great deal of curiosity. \ 

First, 1 had observed that the same day that I broke away frotp 
my father and my friends and ran away to Hull in order to go t^ 
sea, the same day afterward 1 was taken by the Sale man-of-war and 
made a slave. 

The same day of the year that I escaped out of the wreck of that 
ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day-year afterward I made my 
escape from Sal6 in the boat. 

The same day of the year I was bom on, viz., the 30th of Sep-, 
tember, that same day I had my life so miraculously saved twenty- 
six years after, when I was cast on shore in this island; so that my 
wicked life and my solitary life begun both on a day. 

The next thing to my ink’s being wasted was that of my bread, I 
mean the biscuit which I brought out of the ship. This I had hus- 
banded to the last degree, allowing myself but one cake of bread a 
day for above a year, and yet I was quite without bread for near a 
year before I got any com of my own, and great reason I had to be 
thankful that I had any at all, the getting it being, as has been al- 
ready observed, next to miraculous. 

My clothes began to decay, too, mightily. As to hnen, I had none 
a good while, except some checkered shirts which I found in the 
chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully preserved, because 
many times I could bear no other clothes on biR a shirt; and it was 
a very great help to me that I had among all the men’s clothes of 
the sUp almost three dozen of shirts. There were also several thick 
watch coats of the seamen’s, which were left indeed, but they were 
too hot to wear; and though it is tme that the weather was so violent 
hot that there was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked; 

84 



Robinson Crusoe 

no, though I had been inclined to it, which I was not, nor could 
abide the thoughts of it, thought I was all alone. 

The reason why I could not go quite naked was, I could not bear 
the heat of the sun so well when quite naked, as with some clothes on; 
nay, the very heat frequently blistered my skin; whereas with a shirt 
on, the air itself made some motion and, whistling under that shirt, 
was twofold cooler than without it. No more could I ever bring my- 
self to go out in the heat of the sun without a cap or a hat; the heat 
of the sun, beating with such violence as it does in that place, would 
give me the headache presently, by darting so directly on my head, 
without a cap or hat on, so that I could not bear it; whereas, if I 
put on my hat, it would presently go away. 

Upon those views I began to consider about putting the few rags 
I had, which I called clothes, into some order; I had worn out all^ 
the waistcoats I had, and my business was now to try if I could not 
make jackets out of the great watch coats which I had by me, and 
with such other materials as I had; so I set to work a-tailoring, or 
rather indeed a-botching, for I made most piteous work of it. How- 
ever, I made shift to make two or three new waistcoats, which I 
hoped would serve me a great while; as for breeches or drawers, I 
made but a very sorry shift indeed till afterward. 

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures that I 
killed, I mean four-footed ones, and I had hung them up stretched 
out with sticks in the sun, by which means some of them were so dry 
and hard that they were fit for little, but others it seems were very 
useful. The first thing I made of these was a great cap for my head, 
with the hair on the outside, to shoot of! the rain; and this I per- 
formed so well, that after this I made me a suit of clothes wholly 
of these skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at knees, 
and both loose, for they were rather wanting to keep me cool than 
to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that they were 
wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor. 
However, they were such as I made very good shift with; and when 
I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and 
cap being outermost, I was kept very dry. 

After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to make me an 
umbrella; I was indeed in great want of one, and had a great mind 
to make one; I had seen them made in the Bra^, where they are 
very useful in the great heats which are there. And I felt the heats 

85 



Daniel Defoe 

every jot as great here, and greater too, being nearer the equinox; 
besides as I was obliged to be much abroad, it was a most us^ul 
thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. I took a world of pains 
at it, and was a great while before I could make anything likely to 
hold; nay, after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three 
before 1 made one to my mind; but at last I made one that answered 
indifferently well. The main difficulty I found was to make it to let 
down. I could make it to spread, but if it did not let down too and 
draw in, it was not portable for me any, way but just over my heid, 
which would not do. However, at last, as I said, I made onelto 
answer and covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off 
the rains like a penthouse and kept off the sun so effectually, that 
I could walk out in the hottest of the weather with greater advantaro 
than I could before in the coolest, and when I had no need of it) 
could close it and carry it under my arm. 

Sailing Round the Island 

T hus i lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely com- . 

posed by resigning to the will of God and throwing myself wholly 
upon the disposed of His Providence. This made my life better than 
sociable, for when I began to regret the want of conversation, I would 
ask myself whether thus conversing mutually with my own thoughts 
and, as I hope I may say, with even God Himself, by ejaculations, 
was not better than the utmost enjoyment of human society in the 
world. 

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any extraordinary thing 
happened to me, but I lived on in the same course, in the same pos- 
ture and place, just as before; the chief thing I was employed in, be- 
sides my yearly labor of planting my barley and rice and curing my 
raisins, of both which I always kept up just enough to have suffident 
stock of one year’s provisions beforehand; I say, besides this yearly 
labor and my daily labor of going out with my gOii, I had one labor, 
to make me a canoe, which at last I finished. So that by dig^g a 
canal to it of six foot wide, and four foot deep, I brought it into the 
creek, almost half a mile. As for the first, which was so vastly big, 
as I made it without considering beforehand, as I ought to do, how 
I diould be able to launch it; so, never being able to bring it to the 
water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged to let it lie where it 

86 



Robinson Crusoe 

was, as a memoraodum to teach me to be wiser next time. Indeed, 
the next time, though I could not get a tree proper for it, and in a 
place where I could not get the water to it at any less distance than, 
as I have said, near half a mile, yet as I saw it was practicable at 
last, I never gave it over; and though I was near two years about it, 
yet I never grudged my labor, in hopes of having a boat to go off 
to sea at last. . . . 

Having fitted my mast and sail and tried the boat, I found she 
would sail very well. Then I made little lockers, or boxes, at either 
end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries and ammunition, etc., 
into, to be kept dry, eidier from rain or the spray of the sea; and a 
little long hollow place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could 
lay my gun, making a flap to hang down over it to keep it dry. 

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stem, hke a mast, to 
stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun off me like an 
awning; and thus I every now and then took a little voyage upon the 
sea but never went far out, nor far from the little creek; but at last 
being eager to view the circumference of my little kingdom, I re- 
solved upon my tour and accordin^y 1 victualed my ship for the 
voyage, putting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes I should rather 
call them) of bailey bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice, a 
food I ate a great deal of, a little bottle of rum, half a goat and 
powder and shot for killing more, and two large watch coats, of 
those which, as 1 mentioned before, I had saved out of the seamen’s 
chests; these I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover me in 
the night. 

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or my 
captivity, which you please, that I set out on this voyage, and I found 
it much longer ^an I expected; for though the island itself was not 
very large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a great 
ledge of rocks lie out above two leagues into the sea, some above 
water, some under it, and beyond that, a shoal ot sand -lying dry 
half a league mote; so that I was obliged to go a great way out to 
sea to double the point 

When first I discovered them, I was going to give over my enter- 
prise, and come back again, not knowing how far it mig^t oblige me 
to go out to sea; and above aU, doubting how I should get badk; 
again; so 1 came to an anchor; for I had made me a kind of an 
aimlun’ with a piece ot a broken grappling, which I got out of the diip. 

Having secured my Ixuit, I took my gun and went cm shore, 

87 



Daniel Defoe 

climbing up upon a hill, which seemed to overlook that point, where 
I saw the full extent of it, and resolved to venture. 

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I perceived a 
strong, and indeed a most furious current, which run to the east, and 
even came close to the point; and I took the more notice of it, be- 
cause 1 saw there might be some danger that when I came into it, 

I might be carried out to sea by the strength of it and not be able to 
make the island again; and indeed, had I not gotten first up upon 
this hill, I believe it would have been so;.for there was the same cur- 
rent on the other side the island, only that it set off at a farther dis- 
tance; and I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I had 
nothing to do but to get in out of the first current, and 1 should 
presently be in an eddy. \ 

I lay here, however, two days; because the wind blowing prett^ 
fresh at east-southeast, and that being just contrary to the said cur- 
rent, made a great breach of the sea upon the point; so that it was 
not safe for me to keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor 
to go too far off because of the stream. 

The third day in the morning, the wind having abated overnight, 
the sea was calm, and I ventured; but I am a warning piece again to < 
all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point, 
when even I was not my boat’s length from the shore, but I found 
myself in a great depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a mill. 
It carried my boat dong with it with such violence that all I could do 
could not keep her so much as on the edge of it; but I found it hur- 
ried me farther and farther out from the eddy, which was on my left 
hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, and all I could do with 
my paddles signified nothing; and now I began to give myself over 
for lost; for as the current was on both sides of the island, I knew in 
a few leagues’ distance they must join again, and then I was irrecover- 
ably gone; nor did I see any possibility of avoiding it; so that I had 
no prospect before me but of perishing; not by the sea, for that was 
calm enough, but of starving for hunger. I had indeed found a tortoise 
on the shore, as big almost as I cotfid lift, and had tossed it into the 
boat; and I had a great jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of my 
earthen pots; but what was all this to being driven into the vast ocean, 
where, to be sure, there was no shore, no mainland or island, for a 
thousand leagues at least? 

And now I saw how easy it was for the Providence of God to make 
the most miserable condition mankind could be in worse. Now I 


88 



Robinson Crusoe 

looked back upon my desolate solitary island as the most pleasant 
place in the world, and all the happiness my heart could wish for 
was to be but there again. I stretched out my hands to it, with eager 
wishes. “O happy desert!” said I, “I shall never see thee more. O 
miserable creature,” said I, “whither am I going?” Then I reproached 
myself with my unthankful temper and how I had repined at my 
solitary condition; and now what would I give to be on shore there 
again! Thus we never see the true state of our condition till it is 
illustrated to us by its contraries; nor know how to value what we 
enjoy, but by the want of it. It is scarce possible to imagine the 
consternation I was now in, being driven from my beloved island 
(for so it appeared to me now to be) into the wide ocean almost two 
leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever recovering it again. How- 
ever, I worked hard, till indeed my strength was almost exhausted, 
and kept my boat as much to the northward, that is, toward the side 
of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could; when about 
noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I thou^t I felt a little breeze 
of wind in my face, springing up from the south-southeast. This 
cheered my heart a little and especially when, in about half an hour 
more, it blew a pretty small gentle gale. By this time I was gotten at 
a frightful distance from the island, and had the least cloud or hazy 
weather intervened, I had been undone another way too; for I had 
no compass on board, and should never have known how to have 
steered toward the island, if I had but once lost sight of it; but the 
weather continuing clear, 1 applied myself to get up my mast again 
and spread my saU, standing away to the north as much as possible, 
to get out of the current. . . . 

About four o’clock in the evening, being then within about a league 
of the island, I found the point of the rocks which occasioned ^s 
disaster stretching out, as is described before, to the southward, and 
casting off the current more southwardly, had of course made an- 
other eddy to the north, and this 1 found very strong, but not directly 
setting the way my course lay, which was due west, but almost fuU 
north. However, having a fresh gale, 1 stretched across this eddy, 
slanting northwest, and in about an hour came within about a mile 
of the shore, where, it being smooth water, 1 soon got to land. 

When 1 was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God tiianks fm: 
my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughte of my deliverance 
by my boat; and re&eshing myself with such things as I had, I 
brou^t my boat close to tiu shore in a little cove that 1 had spied 

89 



Daniel Defoe 

imder some trees and laid me down to sleep, being quite ^nt with 
the labor and fatigue of the voyage. 

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my boat. 
1 had run so much hazard, and lenew too much the case, to think of 
attempting it by the way I went out, and what mig^t be at the other 
side (I mean the west side) I knew not, nor had 1 any mind to run 
any more ventures; so I only resolved in the morning to make my 
way westward along the shore and to see if there was no creek where 
I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to'have her again if I wan^ 
her; in about three miles, or there about, coasting the shore, I came 
to a very good inlet or bay about a mile over, which narrowed tilllit 
came to a very little rivulet or brook, where I found a very con- 
venient harbor for my boat and where she lay as if she had been m 
a little dock made on purpose for her. Here I put in, and having 
stowed my boat very safe, I went on shore to look about me and see 
where I was. 

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where I had 
been before, when I traveled on foot to that shore; so taking nothing 
out of my boat but my gun and my umbrella, for it was exceedingly 
hot, I began my march. The way was comfortable enough after such 
a voyage as 1 had been upon, and I reached my old bower in the 
evening, where 1 found everything standing as I left it; for I always 
kept it in good order, being, as I said before, my country house. 

I got over the fence and laid me down in Ae shade to rest my 
limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep. But judge you, if you 
can, that read my story, what a surprise I must be in, when I was 
waked out of my sleep by a voice calling me by my name several 
times, “Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe! Where are 
you, Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where have you been?” 

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued wi& rowing, or pad- 
dling, as it is called, the first part of the day and widi walking the 
latter part that I did not wake thoroughly, but dozing between sleep- 
ing and waking, thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me. But 
as the voice continued to repeat “Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe,” at 
last I began to wake more perfectly and was at first dreadfully 
fidgeted and started up in the utmost consternation. But no sooner 
were my eyes open, but I saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge; 
and immediately knew that it was he that spoke to me; for just in 
such bemoaning language I had used to talk to him, and teach him; 
and he had learned it so perfectly that he would at upon my fingn 

90 



Robinson Crusoe 

and lay his bill close to my face, and cry, “Poor Robin Crusoe! 
Where are you? Where have you been? How come you here?” and 
such things as I had taught him. 

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that indeed 
it could be nobody else, it was a good while before I could compose 
myself. First, I was amazed how the creature got thither and Aen, 
how he should just keep about the place and nowhere else. But as 
I was well satisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got over it; 
and holding out my hand, and calling him by his name, “Poll,” the 
sociable creature came to me, and sat upon my thumb, as he used 
to do, and continued talking to me, “Poor Robin Crusoe!” and how 
did I come here? and where had I been? just as if he had been over- 
joyed to see me again; and so I carried him home along with me. 

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time and had 
enough to do for many days to sit still and reflect upon the danger 
I had been in. I would have been very glad to have had my boat 
again on my side of the island; but I knew not how it was practicable 
to get it about. As to the east side of the island, which I had gone 
round, I knew well enough there was no venturing that way; my 
very heart would shrink and my very blood run chiU but to think of 
it. And as to the other side of the island, I did not know how it mig|ht 
be there; but supposing the current ran with the same force against 
the shore at the east as it passed by it on the other, I might nm the 
same risk of being driven down the stream, and carried by the island, 
as I had been before of being carried away from it; so, with these 
thoughts, I contented myself to be without any boat, though it had 
been the product of so many months’ labor to make it, and of so 
many more to get it unto the sea. 


A Very Sedate Retired Life 

I N THIS GOVERNMENT of my temper I remained near a year, lived 
a very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and my 
thoughts being very much composed as to my condition and folly 
comforted in resigning myself to the dispositions of Providence, I 
thought I lived really very happily in all firings, except fiiat of 
society. 

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises which 
my necessities put me upon aj^lying myself to and I believe could, 

91 



Daniel Defoe 

upon occasum, make a veiy good carpenter, especially considering 
how few tools I had. 

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen- 
ware, and contrived well enough to make them with a wheel, which 
I found infinitely easier and better; because I made things round and 
shapable which before were filthy things indeed to look on. But I 
thi^ I was never more vain of my own performance, or more joyful 
for anything I found out, than for my being able to make a tobacco- 
pipe. And though it was a very ugly, cluiivsy thing when it was doAe, 
and only burned red, like other earthenware, yet as it was hard and 
firm, and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted mth 
it, for I had been always used to smoke and there were pipes in tne 
ship, but I forgot them at first, not knowing that there was tobacop 
in the island; and afterward, when I searched the ship again, I coulif 
not come at any pipes at all. . . . 

Being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and my ammuni- 
tion growing low, I set myself to study some art to trap and snare the 
goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them alive, and 
particularly, I wanted a she-goat great with young. . . . 

At lengA I set three traps in one night, and going the next mom-j 
ing, 1 found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone. This 
was very discouraging. However, I altered my trap, and, not to 
trouble you with particulars, going one morning to see my trap, I 
found in one of them a large old he-goat, and in one of the other, 
three kids, a male and two females. . . . 

It was a good while before they would feed, but throwing them 
some sweet com, it tempted them and they began to be tame; and 
now I found that if I expected to supply myself with goat-fiesh when 
I had no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my only 
way, when perhaps I might have them about my house like a fiock 
of sheep. 

But then it presently occurred to me that I must keep the tame 
from the wild, or else they would always run wild when they grew 
up, and the only way for this was to have soffie enclosed piece of 
ground, well fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so 
effectually that those within might not break out, or those without 
break in. . . . 

I went to work with courage. I was about three months hedpng in 
the first {nece, and till I had done it 1 tethered the three kids in the 
best part of it and used thmn to feed as near me as possible to make 

92 



Robinson Crusoe 

them familiar; and very often I would go and cany them some ears 
of barley or a handful of rice and feed them out of my hand; so that 
after my enclosure was finished and I let them loose, they would 
follow me up and down, bleating after me for a handful of com. 

This answered my end, and in about a year and a half I had a 
flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two years more I 
had three and forty, besides several that I took and killed for my 
food. And after that I enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed 
them in, with little pens to drive them into, to take them as I wanted, 
and gates out of one piece of ground into another. 

But this was not all, for now 1 not only had goat’s flesh to feed 
on when I pleased, but milk too, a thing which indeed in my be- 
ginning I did not so much as think of, and wluch, when it came into 
my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise. For now I set up my 
dairy and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as' 
Nature, who g^ves supplies of food to every creature, dictates even 
naturally how to make use of it, so I that had never milked a cow, 
much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, very readily and 
handily, though after a great many essays and miscarriages, made me 
both butter and cheese at last and never wanted it afterward. 

How mercifully can our great Creator treat His creatures, even in 
those conditions in which they seemed to be overwhelmed in destruc- 
tion! How can He sweeten the bitterest providences and ^ve us 
cause to praise Him for dungeons and prisons! What a table was here 
spread for me in a wilderness, where I saw nothing at first but to 
perish for hunger! 

It would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and my little 
family sit down to dinner; there was my majesty, the prince and lord 
of the whole island; I had the lives of all my subjects at my absolute 
command. I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it away, and 
no rebels among all my subjects. 

Then to see how like a king I dined, too, all alone, attended by my 
servants; Poll, as if he had been my favorite, was the only person 
permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was now grown very old and 
crazy and had found no species to multiply his kind upon, sat always 
at my right hand, and two cats, one on one side the table and one (m 
the other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of 
special favor. 

But these were not the two cats which I brou^t on shore at first, 
for they were both of them dead and had been interred near my 

93 



Daniel Defoe 

habitation by my own hand; but one of them having multiplied by 
I know not what kind of creature, these were two which I had pre- 
served tame, whereas the rest ran wild in the woods and became 
indeed troublesome to me at last; for they would often come into my 
house and plunder me too, till at last I was obliged to shoot them, 
and did kill a great many; at length they left me with this attendance, 
and in this plentiful manner, I lived; neither could I be said to want 
anything but society, and of that in some time after this, 1 was like 
to have too much. . j 

I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have theluse 
of my boat, though very loath to run any more hazards; and there- 
fore sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her about the island, and at 
other times I sat myself down contented enough without her. But I 
had a strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of tne 
island where, as I have said, in my last ramble I went up the hill to 
see how the shore lay and how the current set that 1 might see what 
I had to do. This inclination increased upon me every day, and at 
length I resolved to travel thither by land; following the edge of the 
shore I did so. But had anyone in England been to meet such a man 
as I was, it must either have frighted them or raised a great deal of 
laugiiter; and as I fre()uently stood stiU to look at myself, I could not 
but smile at the notion of my traveling through Yorkshire with such 
an equipage and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of my 
figure as follows: 

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goatskin, with a 
flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun firom me as to 
shoot the rain oil from running into my neck; nothing being so 
hurtful in these climates as the rain upon Ae flesh under the clothes. 

I had a short jacket of goatskin, the skirts coming down to about 
the middle of my thighs; and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the 
same; the breeches were made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose 
hair hung down such a length on either side that, like pantaloons, it 
reached to the mid^e of my le^; stockings and shoes I had none, 
but had made me a pair of somethings, I scarce know what to call 
tibem, like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace on eidier side like 
spatterdashes; but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the 
rest of my clothes. 

1 had on a broad belt of goatskin dried, which I drew together 
with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles; and in a kind of a 
&og on either side of diis, instead a sword and a da^pr, hung a 

94 



Robinson Crusoe 

little saw and a hatchet, one on one side, (me on the other. I had 
another belt, not so broad and fastened in the same manner, which 
hung over my shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left arm, hung 
two pouches, both made of goatskin too; in one of which hung my 
powder, in the other my shot. At my back I carried my basket, on 
my shoulder my gun, and over my head a great clumsy ugly goatskin 
umbrella, but which, after all, was the most necessary tl^g I had 
about me, next to my gun. As for my face, the color of it was realty not 
so Mulatto like as one might expect from a man not at all careful 
of it and living within nineteen degrees of the equinox. My beard 1 
had once suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long; 
but as I had both scissors and razors sufficient, I had cut it pretty 
short, except what grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into 
a large pair of whiskers; ... of these mustachios or whiskers, I 
will not say they were long enough to hang my hat upon them, but 
they were of a length and shape monstrous enough and such as in 
En^and would have passed for frightful. . . . 

You are to understand that now I had, as 1 may call it, two planta- 
tions in the island; one my little fortificaticm or tent, with the waf 
about it under the rock, with the cave behind me, which by this time 
I had enlarged into several apartments, or caves, one withm another. 
One of these, which was the driest and largest, and had a d(x>r out 
beyond my wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall 
joined to the rock, was all filled up with the large earthen pots, of 
which I have given an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great 
baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each, where I laid up 
my stores of provision, especially my corn, some in the ear cut off 
short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with my hand. 

As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes, or piles, those 
piles grew all like trees and were by this time grown so big and spread 
so very much that there was not the least appearance to any one’s 
view of any habitation behind them. 

Near this dwelling of mine but a Uttle farther within the land and 
up(m lower ground, lay my two pieces of com ground, which I kept 
duly (mltivated and sowed, and which duly yielded me their harvest 
in its season; and whenever I had (xxasion for more com, I had more 
land adjoining as fit as that. 

Beddes this, I had my country seat, and I had now a tolerable 
plantation ffiete also; for first, I bad my Utde bower, as I called it, 
which I kept in repair; that is to say, I kqpt the hedge which (aided 

95 



Daniel Defoe 

it in constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder standing al- 
ways in the inside; I kept the trees, which at first were no more than 
my stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall, I kept them al- 
ways so cut that they might spread and grow thick and wild, and 
mtdce the more agreeable shade, which they did effectually to my 
mind. In the middle of this I had my tent always standing, being 
a piece of a sail spread over poles set up for that purpose, and which 
never wanted any repair or renewing; and under this 1 had made 
me a squab, or couch, with the skins of ffie'creatures I had killed a^d 
with offier soft things, and a bianket laid on them such as belong! to 
our seabedding, which I had saved, and a great watch coat to cowr 
me; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent from my chief 
seat, I took up my country habitation. \ 

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle, that is to say; 
my goats. And as I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fence 
and enclose this ground, so I was so uneasy to see it kept entire, lest 
the goats should break through, that I never left off til] with infinite 
labor I had struck the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes, 
and so near to one another, that it was rather a pale than a hedge, 
and there was scarce room to put a hand through between them;; 
which afterward, when those stakes grew, as they all did in the 
next rainy season, made the enclosure strong like a wall, indeed, 
stronger than any wall. 

This will testify for me that I was not idle and that I spared no 
pains to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my com- 
fortable support; for I considered the keeping up a breed of tame 
creatures thus at my hand would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, 
butter, and cheese for me as long as I lived in the place, if it were to 
be forty years; and that keeping them in my reach depended entirely 
upon my perfecting my enclosures to such a degree that I might be 
sure of keeping them together; which by this method indeed, I so 
effectually secured that when these little stakes began to grow, I had 
planted them so very thick I was forced to pull some of them up again. 

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I principally 
depended on for my winter store of raisins and which I never failed 
to preserve very carefully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of 
my whole diet; and indeed they were not agreeable only, but phys- 
ical, vdiolesome, nourishing, and refr^hing to the last degree. 

As this was also about halfway between my other habitation and 
file place where 1 had laid up my boat, I ^nerally stayed and lay 

96 



Robinson Crusoe 

heie in my way thither; for I used frequently to visit my boat, and 
I kept all things about or belongmg to her in very good order; some- 
times I went out in her to divert myself, but no more hazardous 
voyages would I go nor scarce ever above a stone’s cast or two from 
the shore, I was so apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowl- 
edge again by the currents, or winds, or any other accident. But 
now I come to a new scene of my life. 

The Print of a Man’s Naked Foot 

I T HAPPENED ONE DAY about noon going toward my boat, I was 
exceedingly surprised with the print of a man’s naked foot on 
the shore, which was very plain to be seen in the sand. I stood like , 
one thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparitirm; I listened, I 
looked round me; I could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went up 
to a rising ground to look farther, I went up the shore and down the 
shore, but it was all one, I could see no other impression but that one. 

I went to it again to see if there were any more and to observe if it 
might not be my fancy; but there was no room for that, for there 
was exactly the very print of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a 
foot; how it came thither I knew not, nor could in the least imagine. 
But after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man perfectly con- 
fused and out of myself, 1 came home to my fortification, not feeling, 
as we say, the ground I went on but terrified to the last degree, look- 
ing behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking every bush and 
tree, and fancying every stump at a distance to be a man; nor is 
it possible to describe how many various shapes affrighted imagina- 
tion represented things to me in, how many wild ideas were found 
every moment in my fancy, and what sttange, unaccountable whim- 
sies came into my thou^ts by the way. 

When I came to my castle, for so I think I called it ever after this, 

I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went over by the ladder as 
first contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock, which I called a 
door, I cannot remember; no, nor could I remember the next morn- 
ing; for never frighted hare fled to cover, or fox to earffi, with more 
terror of mind than I to this retreat. 

I slept none that ni^t; the farther I was &om the occasion of my. 
fri^t, the greater my aj^relmnsions were, which is something ctm- 
trary to the nature of sudi things and especially to the usual practke 

97 



Daniel Defoe 

of an creatures in fear. But I was so embarrassed with my own fri^- 
ful ideas of the thing that I formed nothing but dismal imaginatin gn 
to myself, even though I was now a great way off of it. Sometimes I 
fancied it must be the Devil; and reason joined in with me upon this 
su{q>o»tion. For how should any other ffiing in human shape come 
into the place? Where was the vessel that brought them? What marks 
were there of any other footsteps? And how was it possible a man 
should come there? But then to think that Satan should take human 
shape upon him in such a place where .there could be no manned of 
occasion for it, but to leave the print of his foot behind him, and mat 
even for no purpose too, for he could not be sure I should see it; Ws 
was an amusement the other way. I considered that the Devil mimt 
have found out abundance of other ways to have terrified me thw 
this of the single print of a foot. That as I lived quite on the other side 
of the island, he would never have been so simple to leave a mark in 
a place where ’twas ten thousand to one whether I should ever see it 
or not, and in the sand too, which the first surge of the sea upon a 
hi^ wind would have defaced entirely. All this seemed inconsistent 
with the thing itself, and with aU the notions we usually entertain of 
the subtlety of the Devil. i 

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of all 
apprehensions of its being the Devil. And I presently concluded then 
that it must be some more dangerous creature, viz., that it must be 
some of the savages of the mainland over against me, who had 
wandered out to sea in their canoes and either driven by the cur- 
rents or by contrary winds had made the island; and had been on 
shore, but were gone away again to sea, being as loath, perhaps, to 
have stayed in this desolate island as I would have been to have 
had them. 

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very 
thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy as not to be thereabouts 
at that time or that they did not see my boat, by whidi they would 
have concluded that some inhabitants had been in the place, and 
perhaps have searched farther for me. Then terrible thou^ts racked 
my imagination about their having found my boat, and that there 
were people here; and that if so, I should certainly have them come 
again in great numbers, and devour me; that if it should happen so 
that they dtould not find me, yet they would find my miclosnre, 
destroy aU my com, cany away all my flodc of tame goats, and I 
should pt»i^ at last for mere want. 

98 



Robinson Crusoe 

Tbiis my fear banished all my lelij^ous hope; all that former con- 
fidmice in God, which was founded upon such wonderful e^qterience 
as I had had of His goodness, now vanished, as if He that had fed me 
by miracle hitherto could not preserve by His power the provision 
which He had made for me by His goo^ess. I reproached myself 
with my easiness, that would not sow any more com one year than 
would just serve me till the next season, as if no accident could 
intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground; 
and this I thought so just a reproof that I resolved for the future to 
have two or three years’ com beforehand, so that whatever mig^t 
come, I migiit not perish for want of bread. 

How strange a checker-work of Providence is the life of man! and 
by what secret differing springs are the affections hurried about as 
differing circumstances presmt? Today we love what tomorrow we 
hate; today we seek what tomorrow we shun; today we desire what * 
tomorrow we fear; nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of; this 
was exemplified in me at this time in the most lively manner imag- 
inable; for I, whose only affiction was that I seemed banished from 
human socie^, that 1 was alone, circumscribed by the boundless 
ocean, cut off from mankind, and condemned to what 1 called silent 
life; that I was as one who Heaven thou^t not worthy to be num- 
bered among the living, or to appear among the rest of His creatures; 
that to have seen one of my own species would have seemed to me a 
raising me from death to life, and the ^eatest blessing that Heaven 
itself, next to the supreme blessing of salvation, could bestow; I say, 
that I should now tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a 
man, and was ready to sink into the ground at but the shadow or 
silent appearance of a man’s having set his foot in the island. 

Such is the uneven state of human life. And it afforded me a great 
many curious speculations afterward, when I had a litffe recovered 
my first surprise; I considered that this was the station of life die 
in^tely wise a^ good providence of God had determioed for me; 
that as 1 could not foresee what the ends of Divine wisdom mig^ 
be in all this, so I was not to dbpute Ifis sovereign^, who, as I was 
His creating, had an undoubted right by oeation to govern and dis- 
pose of me absolutely as He thou^t fit; and vifao, as 1 was a creature 
who had offmided Him, had likewise a judicial rig^t to ccmdemn 
me to what punidunmtt % though fit; and that it was my part to sub- 
mit to bear His indignation, because 1 had sinned against Ifim. 

I dien reflected that God, who was not cmly rij^teous but om- 

99 



Dar^elDefoe 

unquestioned duty to resign myself absolutely and entirety to fts 
will; and on the other band, it was my duty also to liope xn Hun, 
pray to Him, and quietly to attend the dictates and directions of His 
daily providence. 

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may say, 
weeks and months; and one particular effect of my cogitations on 
this occasion I cannot omit, viz., one morning early, lying in my bed, 
and filled with thought about my danger from the appearance of 
savages, I found it discomposed me very much, upon which the 
words of the Scripture came into my thougihts, “Call upon Me in tbe 
day of trouble, and 1 will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Mer’ 

Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my heart was not onlj 
comforted but I was guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to God 
for deliverance. When I had done praying, I took up my Bible, and 
opening it to read, the first words that presented to me were, “Wait 
on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and He shall strengthen thy heart; 
wait, I say, on the Lord.” It is impossible to express the comfort this 
gave me. In answer, I thankfully laid down the book, and was nq 
more sad, at least not on that occasion. 

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflections, 
it came into my thought one day that all this might be a mere chimera 
of my own; and that this foot might be the print of my own foot, 
when I came on shore from my boat. This cheered me up a little too, 
and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion; that it was 
nothing else but my own foot; and why might not I come that way 
from the boat, as well as I was going that way to the boat? Again, 

1 considered also that I could by no means tell for certain where I had 
trod, and where I had not; and that if at last this was only the print of 
my own foot, I had played the part of those fools who strive to make 
stories of specters and apparitions, and then are frighted at them 
more than anybody. 

Now I began to take courage and to peep abroad again, for I had 
not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights, so that I began 
to starve for provision; for I had little or nothing within doors, but 
some barley-cakes and water. Then I knew that my goats wanted 
to be milked too, which usually was my evening diversimi; and the 
poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for want of 

100 



Robinson Crusoe 

it; and indeed, it almost spoiled some of them, and almost (bhd up 
their milk. 

Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that this was nothing 
but the print of one of my own feet, and so I might be truly said to 
start at my own shadow, I began to go abroad again, and went to 
my country house to milk my flock; but to see with what fear 1 went 
forward, how often I looked behind me, how I was ready every now 
and then to lay down my basket, and run for my life, it would have 
made anyone have thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, 
or that I had been lately most terribly frighted; and so indeed I had. 
However, as I went down thus two or tl^ee days, and having seen 
nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to think there was really 
nothing in it but my own imagination. But I could not persuade my- 
self fully of this, till I should go down to the shore again, and see. 
this print of a foot, and measure it by my own, and see if there was 
any similitude or fitness, that I might be assured it was my own foot. 
But when I came to the place, first, it appeared evidently to me, 
that when I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore any- 
where thereabout; secondly, when I came to measure the mark with 
my own foot, 1 found my foot not so large by a great deal. Both these 
things filled my head with new imaginations, and gave me the 
vapors again to the highest degree; so that I shook with cold, like one 
in an ague. And I went home again, filled with the belief that some 
man or men had been on shore there; or in short, that the island 
was inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware; and 
what course to take for my security, I knew not. 

O what ridiculous resolution men take when possessed with fear! 
It deprives them of the use of those means which reason offers for 
their relief. The first thing I proposed to myself was to throw down 
my enclosures, and turn dl my tame cattle wild into the woods, that 
the enemy mig;ht not find them and then frequent the island in pros- 
pect of the same or the like booty: then to the simple thing of digging 
up my two cornfields, that they might not find such a grain there and 
still 1 m prompted to frequent the island; then to demolish my bower 
and tent, that they migiht not see any vestiges of habitation, and be 
prompted to look farther, in order to find out the persons inhabiting. 

These were the subject of the first night’s cogitation, after I was 
come home again, while the ap{»ehensions which had so overrun my 
mind were fresh upon me, and my head was full of vapors, as above. 

101 



Daniel Defoe 

Hius fear of danger is'ten thousand times more terrifying than dan- 
ger itself, wh«D apparent to the eyes; and we find the burden of 
anxiety greater, by much, than the evil which we are anxious about; 
and which was worse than all this, I had not that relief in this trouble 
from the resignation I used to practice, that I hoped to have. I looked, 
1 thougjht, like Saul, who complained not only that the Philistines 
were upon him but that God had forsaken him; for I did not now 
take due ways to compose my mind, by crying to God in my distress, 
and resting upon His providence, as I Had done before, for my de- 
fense and deliverance; which if I had done, I had, at least, been man 
cheerfully supported under this new surprise and periiaps cani^ 
through it with more resolution. 

This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all night; but i^ 
the morning I fell asleep, and having by the amusement of my mind, 
been, as it were, tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, 
and waked much better composed than I had ever been before; and 
now I began to think sedately; and upon the utmost debate with my- 
self, I concluded that this island, which was so exceeding pleas- 
ant, fruitful, and no farther from the mainland than as I had seen, 
was not so entirely abandoned as I might imagine. That although ' 
there were no stated inhabitants who lived on the spot, yet that there 
might sometimes come boats off from the shore, who either with 
design, or perhaps never but when they were driven by cross winds, 
mig^t come to this place. That I had lived here fifteen years now, 
and had not met wiA the least shadow or figure of any people yet; 
and that if at any time they should be driven here, it was probable 
they went way again as soon as ever they could, seeing they had 
never thoug|ht fit to fix there upon any occasion to this time. 

Hiat the most I could suggest any danger from was from any such 
casual accidental landing of strag^g people from the main, who, 
as it was likely if they w»e driven hither, were here against 
their wills; so they made no stay here, but went off again with all 
possible speed, seldom staying one ni^t on shore, lest they should 
not have the help of the tides and daylight back again; and that 
therefore I had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat, 
in case I should see any savages land upon the spot 

Now I began sorely to repent that I had ^g my cave so large as 
to bring a door ffirou^ again, which door, as I said, oune out be- 
ycmd where my fortification joined to tihe rock; upon maturely con- 
shtoing this therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification, 

102 



Robinson Crusoe 

in the same manner of a sonicirde, at a (Ustance from-my wall, just 
I had planted a double row of trees about twelve years before, 
of whidi I made mention. These trees having been planted so thick 
befcne, they wanted but a few piles to be driven between them, that 
ttey should be thicker and stron^r, and my wall would be soon 
finished. 

So that I had now a double wall, and my outer wall was thickened 
with pieces of timber, old cables, and everything I coidd think of to 
make it strong; having in it seven little holes, about as big as I might 
put my arm out at. In the inside of this, I thickened my wall to 
above ten foot thick, with continual bringing earth out of my cave, 
and laying it at the foot of the waU, and walking upon it; and through 
the seven holes 1 contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took 
notice that I got seven on shore out of the ship; these, I say, I planted* 
like my cannon, and fitted them into frames that held them like a car- 
riage, that so I could fire all the seven guns in two minutes* time. 
This wall 1 was many a weary month finishing , and yet never thought 
myself safe till it was done. 

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for a 
great way every way, as full with stakes or sticks, of the osier-like 
wood, wtiich I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand; inso- 
much, that I believe I might set in near twenty thousand of them, 
leaving a pretty large space between them and my wall, that I 
might have room to see an enemy, and they mi^t have no sheltn: 
from the young tiees, if they attempted to approach my outer wall. 

Thus in two years’ time I had a thick grove, and in five or six 
years’ time I had a wood before my dwelling, growing so monstrous 
thick and strong that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and no 
men of what kind soever would ever imagine that there was any- 
thing beyond it, much less a habitation. As for the way which 1 
proposed to myself to go in and out, for I left no avenue, it was by 
setting two ladders, one to a part of the rock which was below, and 
then broke in, and left room to place another ladder upon that; so 
when the two ladders were taken down, no man living could come 
down to me without mischieving himself; and if they had come down, 
they were still on the outside of my outer wall. 

Thus I to<^ all tiie measures human prudence could suggest for 
my own preservatfen; and it will be sera at len^ that tb^ were 
not altogether without just reason; thou^ I foresaw ncrttung at that 
time more tiian my more fear su^sted to me. 


103 



Daniel Defoe 

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other 
affairs; for I had a great concern upon me for my little herd of goats; 
they were not only a present supply to me upon every occasion, and 
began to be sufficient to me, without the expense of powder and 
shot, but also without the fatigue of hunting after the wild ones; 
and I was loath to lose the advantage of them, and to have them all 
to nurse up over again. 

To this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of but two 
ways to preserve them; one was to find Another convenient plan to 
dig a cave underground, and to drive them into it every night; and 
the other was to enclose two or three little bits of land, remote from 
one another and as much concealed as I could, where I might keep 
about half a dozen young goats in each place; so that if any disaster 
happened to the flock in general, I might be able to raise them again 
with little trouble and time. And this, though it would require a great 
deal of time and labor, I thought was the most rational design. 

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired parts 
of the island; and I pitched upon one which was as private indeed as 
my heart could wish for; it was a little damp piece of ground in the 
middle of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed, I 
almost lost myself once before, endeavoring to come back that way 
from the eastern part of the island. Here I found a clear piece of 
land, near three acres, so surrounded with woods that it was almost an 
enclosure by Nature, at least it did not want near so much labor to 
make it so as the other pieces of groimd I had worked so hard at. 

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, and in less 
than a month’s time I had so fenced it round that my flock or herd, 
call it which you please, who were not so wild now as at first they 
might be supposed to be, were well enough secured in it. So, without 
any further delay, 1 removed ten young she-goats and two he-goats 
to this piece; and when they were there, I continued to perfect the 
fence, till I had made it as secure as the other, which, however, I did 
at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a great deal. 

Cannibals! 

ALL THIS LABOR I was at the expense of purely from my appre^* 
Jl\. hensions on the account of the print of a man’s foot which I had 
seen; for as yet I never saw any human creature come near the island; 
and I had now lived two years under these uneasinesses, which indeed 

104 



Robinson Crusoe 

made my life much less comfortable than it was before; as may well 
be imagined by any who know what it is to live in the constant snare 
of the fear of man; and this I must observe with grief too, that the 
discomposure of my mind had too great impressions also upon the 
religious part of my thoughts, for the dread and terror of falling into 
the hands of savages and cannibals lay so upon my spirits that 1 sel- 
dom found myself in a due temper for application to my Maker, 
at least not with the sedate calmness and resignation of soul which I 
was wont to do; I rather prayed to God as under great affliction and 
pressure of mind, surrounded with danger, and in expectation every 
night of being murdered and devoured before morning; and I must 
testify from my experience that a temper of peace, thankfulness, 
love, and affection is much more the proper frame for prayer than 
that of terror and discomposure; and that under the dread of mis-* 
chief impending, a man is no more fit for a comforting performance 
of the duty of praying to God than he is for repentance on a sick- 
bed. For Aese discomposures affect the mind, as the others do the 
body; and the discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as 
great a disability as that of the body, and much greater, praying to 
God being properly an act of the mind, not of the body. 

But to go on. After I bad thus secured one part of my little living 
stock, I went about the whole island searching for another private 
place to make such another deposit; when wandering more to the 
west point of the island than I had ever done yet, and looking out 
to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great distance; I had 
found a perspective-g^ass or two, in one of the seamen’s chests which 
I saved out of our ship; but I had it not about me, and this was so 
remote that I could not tell what to make of it, though I looked at 
it till my eyes were not able to hold any longer; whether it was a boat 
or not, I do not know; but as I descended from the hill, I could see 
no more of it, so I gave it over; only I resolved to go no more out 
without a perspective-glass in my pocket. 

When I was come down the hill to the end of the island, where 
indeed I had never been before, I was presently convinced that the 
seeing tlm print of a man’s foot was not such a strange thing in the 
island as I imagined; and but that it was a special providence diat 
I was cast upon the side of the island where the savages never came, 
I should easily have known that nothing was more frequent than 
for the canoes from the main, when they happened to be a little too 
far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for harbor; like- 

105 



Demiel Defoe 

wise, as they often met and fought in their canoes, the victors, having 
taken any prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where, ac- 
cording to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would 
kill and eat them; of which hereafter. 

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above, 
being the southwest point of the island, I was perfectly confounded 
and amazed; nor is it possible for me to express the horror of my 
mind at seeing the shore spread with sknUs, hands, feet, and other 
bones of human bodies; and particularly,' I observed a place whm 
there had been a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth, likA a 
cockpit, where it is supposed the savage wretches had sat down to 
their inhuman feastings upon the bodies of their fellow creatures. \ 

I was so astonished with the si^t of these things that 1 entei^ 
tained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while; all 
my apprehensions were buried in the thougjhts of such a pitch of 
inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of 
human nature; which though I had heard of often, yet 1 never had 
so near a view of before; in short, I turned away my face firom the 
horrid spectacle; my stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of 
fainting, when Nature discharged the disorder from my stomach;' 
and having vomited with an uncommon violence, I was a little re- 
lieved but could not bear to stay in the place a moment; so 1 got me 
up the hill again, with all the speed I could, and walked on toward 
my own habitation. 

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood stUl a 
while as amazed; and then recovering myself, I looked up with the ut- 
most affection of my soul, and with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave 
God thanks that had cast my first lot in a part of the world where 1 was 
distinguished from such dreadful creatures as these; and that though 
I had esteemed my present condition very miserable, had yet givmi 
me so many comforts in it that I had still more to ^ve thanks for 
than to complain of; and this above all, that I had even in this miser- 
able condition been comforted wiA the knowledge of Himself and 
the hope of His blessing, whidi was a felici^ more than suffidently 
equivalent to all the misery which I had suffmed or could suffer. 

In this frame of thankfalness I went home to my castle, and 
began to be much easier now, as to the safe^ oi my carcomstances, 
than ever I was before; for I observed that these wietdtes never 
came to this island in search of what th^ could get; perhaps not 
seeking, not wanting, or not expecting anything Iteie; and having 

106 



Robinson Crusoe 

often, no doubt, been up in the covered, woocty part of it, widiout 
finding anything to their purpose. 1 knew I had been here now al- 
most ei^teen years, and never saw the least footsteps of humtm 
creature there t^ore; and I might be here eighteen more as entirely 
concealed as I was now, if I did not discover myself to them, whi(^ 

I had no manner of occasion to do, it being my only business to keep 
myself entirely concealed where I was, u^ess I found a better sort 
of creatures than cannibals to make myself known to. 

Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches that 
I have been speaking of and of the wretched, inhum an custom of 
their devouring and eating one another op that I continued pensive 
and sad, and kept close within my own circle for almost two years 
after this. When I say my own circle, 1 mean by it my three planta- 
tions, viz., my castle, my country seat, which I called my bower, and 
my enclosure in the woods; nor did I look after this for any other use 
than as an enclosure for my goats; for the aversion which Nature 
gave me to these hellish wretches was such that I was fearful of see- 
ing them as of seeing the Devil himself; nor did I so much as go to 
look after my boat in all this time, but began rather to think of mak- 
ing me another; for I could not think of ever making any more at- 
tempts to bring the other boat round the island to me, lest I shoidd 
meet with some of these creatures at sea, in which, if I had happened 
to have fallen into their hands, I knew what would have been my 
lot. 

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no danger 
of being discovered by these people began to wear off my uneasiness 
about Aem; and I began to five just in the same composed manner 
as before; only with this difference, that I used more caution and 
kept my eyes more about me than I did before, lest I should happen 
to be seen by any cff them; and particularly, I was more cautious of 
firing my gun, lest any of them, being on the island, ^ould happen 
to hear of it; and it was therefore a very good providence to me that 
I had furnished myself with a tame breed of goats, that I needed 
not hunt any mote about the woods, or shoot at thmn; and if I did 
catch any of them after diis, it was by traps and snares, as I had 
done before; so that for two years after this, I believe I never fired 
my gim (mce c&, though I never went out without it; and whidi was 
nune, as I had saved three pistols out ci the ship, I always carried 
them out with me, ot at least two of them, sticking them in my goat- 
skin belt; also I furbished op one of the great cutlasses that I tod out 

107 



Daniel Defoe 

of the ship, and made me a belt to put it on also; so that I was now 
a most formidable fellow to look at when 1 went abroad, if you add 
to the former description of myself the particular of two pistols and 
a great broadsword, hanging at my side in a belt, but without a scab- 
bard. 

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I seemed, 
excepting these cautions, to be reduced to my former calm, sedate 
way of living; all these things tended to .showing me more and more 
how far my condition was from being miserable, compared to sdpe 
others; nay, to many other particulars of life which it might have 
pleased God to have made my lot. It put me upon reflecting how 
little repining there would be among mankind at any condition of 
life, if people would rather compare their condition with those th^ 
are worse, in order to be thankful, than be always comparing them 
with those which are better, to assist their murmurings and com- 
plainings. . . . 

My invention now ran quite another way; for night and day I 
could think of nothing but how I might destroy some of these mon- 
sters in their cruel, bloody entertainment and, if possible, save the 
victim they should bring hither to destroy. It would take up a larger 
volume than this whole work is intended to be, to set down all the 
contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded upon in my thought, for 
the destroying these creatures, or at least frightening them so as to 
prevent their coming hither any more; but all was abortive, nothing 
could be possible to take effect, unless I was to be there to do it 
myself; and what could one man do among them, when perhaps there 
might be twenty or thirty of them together, with their darts, or their 
bows and arrows, with which they could shoot as true to a mark as 
I could with my gun? 

Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place where they 
made their fire and put in five or six pound of gunpowder, which, 
when they kindled their fire, would consequently take fire and blow 
up all that was near it; but as in the first place Tshoidd be very loath 
to waste so much powder upon them, my store being now within the 
quantity of one barrel, so neither could I be sure of its going off at 
any certain time, when it might surprise them; and at best, that it 
would do little more than just blow the fire about their ears and 
firig^t them, but not sufficient to make them forsake the place; so I 
laid it aside, and then proposed that I would place mysdf in ambush, 
in some convenient place, with my diree guns all double-loaded; and 

108 



Robinson Crusoe 

in the middle of their bloody ceremony, let fly at them, when I should 
be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or three at every shoot; and dien 
falling in upon them with my three pistols and my sword, I made no 
doubt but that if there was twenty I should kill them all. This fancy 
pleased my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so full of it that I 
often dreamed of it; and sometimes that I was just going to let fly at 
them in my sleep. 

I went so far with it in my imagination that I employed myself 
several days to find out proper places to put myself in ambuscade, 
as I said, to watch for them; and I went frequently to the place itself, 
which was now grown more familiar to me; and especially while my 
mind was thus filled vtith thoughts of revenge and of a bloody putting 
twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as I may call it, the horror I 
had at the place and at the signals of the barbarous wretches devour-'* 
ing one another abated my malice. 

Well, at length I found a place in the side of the hill where I was 
satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any of their boats coming, 
and might then, even before they would be ready to come on shore, 
convey myself unseen into thickets of trees, in one of which there was 
a hollow large enough to conceal me entirely; and where I mig^t sit 
and observe all their bloody doings, and take my full aim at their 
heads, when they were so close together as that it would be next to 
impossible that I should miss my shoot or that I could fail wounding 
three or four of them at the first shoot. 

In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design, and accordingly 
I prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowling piece. The two mus- 
kets I loaded with a brace of slugs each, and four or five smaller 
bullets, about the size of pistol bullets; and the fowling piece I loaded 
with near a handful of swan shot, of the largest size; I also loaded 
my pistols vnth about four bullets eadi, and in this posture, well 
provided with ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepared 
myself for my expedition. 

After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and in my imagina- 
tion put it in practice, I continually made my tour every morning up 
to the top of the hill, which was from my castle, as 1 called it, about 
three miles, or more, to see if 1 could observe any boats upon the sea, 
coming near tiie island, or standing over toward it; but 1 began to 
tire tius hard duty, after I had for two or three months constantly 
k^ my watch; but came always back without any discovery, there 
having not, in all that time, been the least appearance, not only on 

109 



Daniel Defoe 

or near the shore, but not on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or 
glasses could reach every way. 

As long as I kept op my c^y tour to the hill to look out, so long 
also I kept up the vigor of my design, and my spirits seemed to be 
all the while in a suitable form for so outrageous an execution as the 
killing twenty or thirty naked savages for an offense which I had 
not at all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any farther 
than my passions were at first fired by Ae.horror I conceived at ^ 
unnatural custom of that people of the country, who it seems had 
been suffered by Providence, in His wise disposition of the world, uo 
have no other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiatra 
passions; and consequently were left, and perhaps had been so for 
some ages, to act such horrid things and receive such dreadful cu^ 
toms, as nothing but nature entirely abandoned of Heaven and acted 
by some hellish degeneracy could have run them into. But now, 
ulien as I have said, I began to be weary of the fruitless excursion 
which I had made so long, and so far every morning in vain, so my 
opinion of the action itself began to alter, and I began with cooler 
and calmer thoughts to consider what it was I was going to engage, 
in. What authority or caU I had to pretend to be judge and execu- 
tioner upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit 
for so many ages to suffer unpunished to go on and to be, as it were, 
the executioners of His judgments one upon another? How far these 
people were offenders against me, and what right I had to engage in 
the quarrel of that blood, which they shed promiscuously one upon 
another? I debated this very often wiA myself thus: “How do I know 
what God Himself judges in this particular case? It is certain these 
people either do not commit this as a crime; it is not against their own 
consciences’ reproving or their light reproaching them. They do not 
know it to be an offense, and then commit it in defiance of Divine 
justice, as we do in almost all the sins we commit. They think it no 
more a crime to kill a captive taken in war than we do to kill an ox; 
nor to eat human flesh, than we do to eat mutton.” 

When I had considered this a little, it followed necessarily that I 
was certainly in the wrong in it; that these people were not murderers 
in the sense that 1 had before condemned them in my thoughts; any 
more than those Christians were murderers, who oftoi put to death 
the prisoners taken in batffe; or more frequently, upon many occa- 
uom, put whole troops of mmi to the sword, without ^ving quarter, 
tfiough they threw down theu* arms and submitted. 

110 



Robinson Crusoe 

In the next place it occurred to me that albeit the usage th^ dius 
gave one anolber was thus brutish and inhuman^ yet it was really 
nothing to me. These people had done me no injury. That if they 
attempted me, or I saw it necessary for my immediate preservation 
to fall upon them, something mi^t be said of it; but that I was yet 
out of their pown and they had really no knot^edge of me, and con- 
sequently no design upon me, and therefore it could not be just for 
me to fall upon them. That this would justify the conduct of the Span- 
iards in all their barbarities practiced in America, and where they 
destroyed millions of these people, who, however they were idolaters 
and barbarians and had several bloody and barbarous rites in their 
customs, such as sacrificing human bodies to their idols, were yet, 
as to the Spaniards, very innocent people; and that the tooting them 
out of the country is spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and de- ‘ 
testation by even the Spaniards themselves, at this time, and by all 
other Christian nations of Europe, as a mere butchery, a bloody and 
unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to God or man; and 
such as for which the very name of a Spaniard is redtoned to be 
fri^tful and terrible to all people of humanity or of Christian com- 
passion; as if the- kingdom of Spain were particularly eminent for the 
product of a race of men who were without principles of tenderness, 
or the common bowels of pity to the miserable, which is reckoned 
to be a mark of generous temper in the mind. 

These ccmsiderations really put me to a pause and to a kind of a 
full stop; and I began by little and little to be off of my design and 
to conclude I had taken wrong measures in my resolutions to attack 
the savages; that it was not my business to meddle with them unless 
they first attacked me; and this it was my business if possible to pre- 
vent; but that if I were discovered and attacked, then 1 knew my 
duty. 

On the other hand, I argued with myself that tMs really was the 
way not to deliver myself, but entirely to ruin and destroy myself; for 
unless I was sure to kill every one that not only should be on dtoce 
at that time, but tiiat should ever come cm shore afterward, if but me 
of them escaped to tell their country peopte what had happened, they 
would come over again by thomands to revmge the death of thm 
fellows, and I diould mly bring t^xm myself a certain destruction, 
whidi at {nesmrt I had no manner of occasion for. 

Upm the wfa(de I oondutfed that neither m prindple or in poliqr 
I ougiht one way or otiier to concern myself in this aff^. That my 

111 



Daniel Defoe 

business was by all possible means to conceal myself from them and 
not to leave the least signal to them to guess by that there were any 
living creatures upon the island; I mean of human shape. 

Reli^on joined in with this prudential, and I was convinced now, 
many ways, that I was perfectly out of my duty, when I was laying 
all my bloody schemes for the destruction of innocent creatures, I 
mean innocent as to me. As to the crimes they were guilty of toward 
one another, I had nothing to do with theip; they were national, Emd 
I ought to leave them to the justice of God, who is the Govemorlof 
nations and knows how by national punishments to make a just ret- 
ribution for national offenses; and to bring public judgments upon 
those who offend in a public manner, by such ways as best pleas^ 
Him. \ 

This appeared so clear to me now that nothing was a greater sat- 
isfaction to me than that I had not been suffered to do a thing which 
I now saw so much reason to believe would have been no less a sin 
than that of willful murder, if I had committed it; and I gave most 
humble thanks on my knees to God, that had thus delivered me from 
blood-guiltiness; beseeching Him to grant me the protection of His 
Providence, that I might not fall into the hands of the barbarians; or 
that I might not lay my hands upon them, unless I had a more clear 
call from Heaven to do it, in defense of my own life. 

In this disposition I continued for near a year after this; and so far 
was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon these wretches, that 
in aU that time I never once went up the hill to see whether there 
were any of them in sight, or to know whether any of them had been 
on shore there or not, that I might not be tempted to renew any of 
my contrivances against them, or be provoked by any advantage 
which might present itself to fall upon them; only this I did: I went 
and removed my boat, which I had on the other side the island, and 
carried it down to the east end of the whole island, where I ran it 
into a little cove which 1 found under some higjh rocks, and where I 
knew, by reason of the currents, the savages durst not, at least would 
not, come with their boats upon any account whatsoever. . . . 

Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than ever, and 
seldom went from my ceU, other than upon my constant employment, 
viz., to milk my she-goats and manage my little flock in the wood, 
which, as it was quite on the other part of the island, was quite out 
of danger; for certain it is, that these savage people who sometimes 
haunted fliis island never came with any thoughts of finding anyr 

112 



Robinson Crusoe 

thing here; and amsequendy never wandered off from the coast; and 
I doubt not but they might have been several times on shore, after 
my apprehensions of them had made me cautious, as well as before; 
and indeed, I looked back with some horror upon the thou^ts of 
what my condition would have been, if I had chopped upon * them 
and been discovered before that, when naked and unarmed, except 
with one gun, and that loaden often only with small shot, I walked 
everywhere, peeping and peeping about the island to see what I 
could get; what a surprise should I have been in, if when I discovered 
the print of a man’s foot, I had instead of that seen fifteen or twen^ 
savages and found them pursuing me, and by the swiftness of their 
running, no possibility of my escaping them! 

The thou^ts of this sometimes sunk my very soul within me, and 
distressed my mind so much that I could not soon recover it, to think * 
what I should have done, and how I not only should not have been 
able to resist them but even should not have had presence of mind 
enough to do what I might have done, much less what now, after so 
much consideration and preparation, I might be able to do. Indeed, 
after serious thinking of these things, I should be very melancholy, 
and sometimes it would last a great while; but I resolved it at last all 
into thankfulness to that Providence which had delivered me from 
so many unseen dangers and had kept me from those mischiefs which 
I coidd no way have been the agent in delivering myself from, be- 
cause I had not the least notion of any such thing depending, or the 
least supposition of it being possible. 

This renewed a contemplation which often had come to my 
thoughts in former time, when first I began to see the merciful dis- 
positions of Heaven in the dangers we run through in this life. How 
wonderfully we are delivered, when we know nothing of it. How, 
when we are in a quandary (as we call it), a doubt or hesitation, 
whether to go this way, or that way, a secret hint shall direct us this 
way, when we intended to go that way; nay, when sense, our own 
inclination, and perhaps business has called to go the other way, yet 
a shrange impression upon the mind, from we know not what strings 
and by we know not what power, shall overrule us to go this way; 
and it shall afterward appear that had we gone that way vdimh we 
should have gone, and even to our ima^adon ou^t to have gone. 
We should have been ruined and lost. Upon these, and many like re- 
flections, I afterward made it a certain rule with me that whraever 
* Ihtemjpted 


113 



Daniel Defoe 

I found those secret hints, or pressings of my mind, to d(wg or not 
doing anything that presented, or to going this way or that way, I 
never failed to obey the secret dictate; though I knew no other rea- 
son for it than that such a pressure, or such a hint, hung upon my 
mind. I could ^ve many examples of the success of this conduct in 
the course of my life; but more especially in the latter part of my 
inhabiting this imhappy island; besides many occasions which it is 
very likely I might have taken notice of, if I had seen with the s^e 
eyes then that I saw with now. But W never too late to be wise; 
and I cannot but advise all considering men, whose lives are Vat- 
tended with such extraordinary incidents as mine, or even thoi^ 
not so extraordinary, not to slight such secret intimations of Prov- 
idence, let them come from what invisible intelligence they will, that 
I shall not discuss and perhaps caimot account for; but certainly they 
are a proof of the converse of spirits and the secret communication 
between those embodied and those unembodied; and such a proof 
as can never be withstood. 

The Care of My Safety '' 

I BELIEVE THE READER of this will not think strange if I confess 
that these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in and the con- 
cern that was now upon me, put an end to all invention and to all 
the contrivances that 1 had laid for my future accommodations and 
conveniences. I had the care of my safety more now upon my hands 
than that ot my food. I cared not to drive a nail or chop a stick of 
Wood now for fear the noise 1 should make should be heard; much 
less would 1 fire a gun, for the same reason; and above all, I was 
intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, which is vis- 
ible at a great distance in the day, should betray me; and for this 
reason I removed that part of my business which required fire, such 
as burning of pots Bnd pipes, eto., into my new apartment in the 
woods, where after I had been some time, I found, to my unspeak- 
able consolation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a 
vast way, and where, 1 dare say, no savage, had he been -at the 
mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture in, nor indeed, would 
any man elM but one who, like me, wanted notlung so much as a 
safe retreat. . . . 

1 was curious to look into it, and getting with difficult into the 

114 



Robinson Crusoe 

mouth of it, 1 found it was pretty large; that is to say, sufficient for 
me to stand upri^t in it, and perhaps another with me; but I must 
confess to you I made more haste out than I did in, when looking 
farther into the place, and which was perfectly dark, I saw two broad 
shining eyes of some creature, whether devil or man I knew not, 
which twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the cave’s mouth 
shining directly in and making the reflection. 

However, aher some pause, I recovered myself, and began to call 
myself a thousand fools, and tell myself that he that was afraid to see 
the Devil was not fit to live twenty years in an island all alone; and 
that I dared to believe there was nothing in this cave that was more 
frightful than myself; upon this, plucking up my courage, I took up 
a great firebrand, and in I rushed again with the stick flaming in my 
hand; I had not gone three steps in but I was almost as much fritted 
as I was before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man in 
some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as if of words half 
expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back and was in* 
deed struck with such a surprise that it put me into a cold sweat; and 
if I had had a hat on my head, I will not answer for it that my hair 
might not have lifted it off. But still plucking up my spirits as well as 
I could, and encouraging myself a little with considering that the 
power and presence of God was everywhere and was able to protect 
me, upon this I stepped forward again, and by the light of the fire- 
brand, holding it up a little over my head, I saw lying on the ground 
a most monstrous, frightful old he-goat, just making his will, as we 
say, and gasping for life and dying indeed of mere old age. 

I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he «sayed 
to get up, but was not able to raise himself; and I thou^t with my- 
self, he might even lie there; for if he had frighted me so, he would 
certsunly fright any of the savages, if any of them should be so hardy 
as to come in there while he had any Iffe in him. 

I was now recovered from my surprise and began to look round 
me, whmi I found the cave was but very small, that is to say, it 
might be about twelve foot over, but in no maimer of shape, eitlm 
round or square, no hands having ever been emplt^ed in making it 
but those of mere Nature. I observed also that there was a {dace at 
the ffirffier side of it that went in farther but was so low that it re- 
quited me to creep upon my hands and kne^ to go into it, and 
whither I went I Imew not; so having no candle, I gave it ovet for 
some time but resolved to come again the next day, provu^ whh 

115 



Darnel Defoe 

candles and a tinderbox, which I had made of die lock of one of the 
muskets, and some wild-fire in the pan. 

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large candles 
of my own making, for I made very good candles now of goat’s tal- 
low; and going into this low place, I was obliged to creep upon all 
fours, as I have said, almost ten yards; which, by the way, I bought 
was a venture bold enough, considering that I knew not how far it 
mig^t go, nor what was beyond it When I was got through the strait, 
I found Ae roof rose higher up, 1 believe near twenty foot; but never 
was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was to 
look round the sides and roof of this vault, or cave; the walls Ve- 
flected one hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles; 
what it was in the rock, whether diamonds or any other precio\^s 
stones or gold, which I rather supposed it to be, I knew not. 

The place I was in was a most delightful cavity or grotto of its 
kind, as could be expected, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry 
and level and had a sort of small loose gravel upon it, so that there 
was no nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was 
there any damp or wet on the sides or roof. The only difficulty i^ 
it was the entrance, which, however, as it was a place of security, 
and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a convenience; 
so that I was really rejoiced at the discovery and resolved, without any 
delay, to bring some of those things which I was most anxious about 
to this place; particularly, I resolved to bring hither my magazine of 
powder, and all my spare arms, viz., two fowling pieces, for I had 
three in all; and three muskets, for of them I had eight in all; so I 
kept at my castle only five, which stood ready mounted, like pieces 
of cannon, on my outmost fence; and were ready also to take out 
upon any expedition. 

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I took occasion 
to open the barrel of powder which I took op out of the sea, and 
which had been wet; and I found that the water had penetrated 
about three or four inches into the powder on every side, which, 
caking and growing hard, had preserved the inside like a kernel in 
a shell; so that I had near sixty pound of very good powder in the 
cmter of the cask, and this was an agreeable discovery to me' at that 
time; so I carried all away thither, never keeping above two or three 
pound of powder with me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any 
Imd. I also carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets. 

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which were 

116 



Robinson Crusoe 

said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none could come 
at them; for 1 persuaded myself, while I was here, if five hundred 
savages were to hunt me, they could never find me out; or, if they 
did, they would not venture to attack me here. . . . 

It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty- 
third year; and this being the southern solstice, for winter I caimot 
call it, was the particular time of my harvest and required my being 
pretty much abroad in the fields, when, going out pretty early in the 
morning, even before it was thorough dayli^t, I was surprised with 
seeing a light of some fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of 
about two mile, towards the end of the island, where I had observed 
some savages had been, as before; but not on the other side; but to 
my great afSiction, it was on my side of the island. 

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight and stopped shorC 
within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be surprised; and 
yet I had no more peace within, from the apprehensions I had that 
if these savages, in rambling over the island, should find my com 
standing or cut, or any of my works and improvements, they would 
immediately conclude that there were people in the place and would 
then never give over till they had found me out. In this extremity I 
went back directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder after me, and 
made all things without look as wild and natural as I could. 

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of de- 
fense; I loaded all my cannon, as I called them; that is to say, my 
muskets, which were mounted upon my new fortification, and all my 
pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp, not forgetting 
seriously to commend myself to the Divine protection and earnestly 
to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of the barbarians; and 
in this posture I continued about two hours; but began to be mighty 
impatient for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out. 

After sitting a while longer and musing what I should do in this 
case, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance any longer; so setting 
up my ladder to the side of the hill where there was a flat place, as 
I observed before, and then pulling the ladder up after me, I set it 
up again and mounted to die top of the hill; and pulling out my per- 
spective-ghtss, which I had taken on purpose, I laid me down ^t on 
my belly on die ground and began to look for the place; I pres^dy 
found there were no less than nine naked savages sitting round a 
small fire they had made, not to warm them, for they had no need 

that, the weather being extreme hot; but, as I suf^iosed, to dress 

117 



Darnel Defoe 

some of their barbarous diet of human flesh, which they had brought 
with them, whether alive or dead I could not know. 

They had two canoes with them, which they had haled up upon 
the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to me to wait 
for the return of the flood to go away again; it is not easy to imag- 
ine what confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing them 
come on my side the island, and so near me too; but when I ob- 
served their coming must be always with the current of the ebb, I 
began afterward to be more sedate in my mind, being satisfied j^t 
I might go abroad with safety all the time of the tide of floooL if 
they were not on shore before. And having made this observation, 
I went abroad about my harvest work with the more composure. \ 

As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide made to the 
westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as we call 
it) all away. I should have observed that, for an hour and more be- 
fore they went off, they went to dancmg, and I could easily discern 
their postures and gestures by my glasses. I could not perceive, by 
my nicest observation, but that they were stark naked and had not 
the least covering upon them; but whether they were men or women, 
that I could not distinguish. 

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns upon 
my shoulders and two pistols at my girdle and my great sword by 
my side, without a scabbard, and with all the speed I was able to 
make, I went away to the hill where I had discovered the first ap- 
pearance of all; and as soon as I got thither, which was not less than 
two hours, for I could not go apace, being so loaden with arms as I 
was, I perceived there had been three canoes more of savages on 
that place; and looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea to- 
gether, making over for the main. 

This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when going down to 
the shore, I could see the marks of horror which the dismal work 
th^ had been about had left behind it, viz., the blood, the bones, 
and part of the flesh of human bodies, eaten and devoured by those 
wretches, with merriment and sport. I was so filled with indignation 
at the sight that I began now to premeditate the destruction of the 
next that I saw there, let them be who or how many soever. I . . 

I wore out a year and three months more b^ore I ever saw any 
more of these savages, and then I found them again, as I Shall soon 
^MOive. . . . 

Tbe perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or sixteen months’ 

118 



Robinson Crusoe 

interval, was very great; I slept unquiet, dreamed always fir^itfal 
dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night. In the day 
great troubles overwhelmed my mind, and in the night I dreamed 
often of killing the savages, and of the reasons why I might justify 
the doing of it; but to waive ail this for a while; it was in the midcfle 
of May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden 
calendar would reckon; for 1 marked all upon the post still; I say, it 
was the sixteenth of May that it blew a very great storm of v^d all 
day, with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul 
night it was after it; I know not what was the particular occasion of 
it; but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with very serious 
thoughts about my present condition, I was surprised with a noise 
of a gun, as I thought, fired at sea. 


Ship in Distress 

T his was to be sure a surprise of a quite different nature from 
any I had met with before; for the notions this put into my 
thougihts were quite of another kind. 1 started up in the greatest haste 
imaginable, and in a trice clapped my ladder to the middle place of 
the rock, and pulled it after me, and mounting it the second time, 
got to the top of the hill the very moment that a flash of fire bid me 
listen for a second gun, which accordin^y, in about half a minute 
I heard; and by the sound, knew that it was ft’om that part of the 
sea where 1 was driven down the current in my boat. 

I immediately considered that this must be some ship in distress, 
and that they had some comrade, or some other ship in company, 
and fired these guns for signals of distress and to obtain help. I had 
this presence of mind at ffiat minute as to think that thou^ I could 
not help them, it may be they might help me; so I brought together 
all the dry wood I could get at hand, and making a good handsome 
{file, I set it on fire upon the hill; die wood was dry and blazed 
freely; and thou^ the wind blew v«y hard, yet it burned fairly 
out; that I was certain, if there was any such filing as a ship, they 
must needs see it, and no doubt they for as soon as ever my 
fire Mazed I heard another gun, and after that several others, 
all from the same quarter; I plied my fire all ni^t long, till day 
broke; and udimi it was broad day, and the air deared up, I saw 
»»nefiiiag at a great Stance at sea, ftiH east M the island, wh^bmr 

119 



Daniel Defoe 

a sail or a hull I could not distinguish, no, not with my glasses, the 
distance was so great, and the weather still something hazy also; at 
least it was so out at sea. 

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that it 
did not move; so I presently concluded that it was a ship at an an- 
chor, and being eager, you may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my 
gun in my hand, and run toward the south side of the island, to the 
rocks where I had formerly been carri^,away with the current, land 
getting up there, the weather by this time teing perfectly clear, I 
could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast away 
in the night upon those concealed rocks which I found when I was 
out in my boat; and which rocks, as they checked the violence \of 
the stream, and made a kind of counter-stream or eddy, were tlfe 
occasion of my recovering from the most desperate, hopeless condi- 
tion that ever I had been in, in all my life. 

Thus what is one man’s safety is another man’s destruction; for it 
seems these men, whoever they were, being out of their knowledge, 
and the rocks being wholly under water, had been driven upon them 
in the night, the wind blowing hard at east and east-northeast. Ha^ 
they seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose they did not, they 
must, as I thought, have endeavored to have saved themselves on 
shore by the help of their boat; but their firing of guns for help, 
especially when they saw, as I imaged, my fire, filled me with many 
thoughts. First, I imagined that upon seeing my light, they might 
have put themselves into their boat and endeavored to make the 
shore; but that the sea going very high, they might have been cast 
away; other times I imagined that they might have lost their boat 
before, as might be the case many ways; as particularly by the break- 
ing of the sea upon their ship, which many times obliges men to 
stave, or take in pieces their boat; and sometimes to throw it over- 
board with their own hands. Other times I imagined they had some 
other ship, or ships in company, who, upon the signals of distress 
they had made, had taken them up, and carried them off. Other 
whffes I fancied they were all gone off to sea in their boat, and being 
hurried away by the current Aat I had been formerly in, were car- 
ried out into the great ocean, where there was nothing but' misery 
and perishing; and that perhaps they migiht by this time think of 
starving and of being in a condition to eat (me another. . . . 

Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom I could not 
so much as see room to suppose any of them weie saved; nothing 

120 



Robinson Crusoe 

could make it rational; so much as to wish or e3q>ect that they did 
not all perish there; except the possibility only of their being takmt 
up by another ship in company, and this was but mere possibility 
inde^; for I saw not the least signal or appearance of any such thing. 

I cannot explain by any possible energy of words what a strange 
longing or hankering of desires I felt in my soul upon this sight, 
breaking out sometimes thus: “O that there had been but one or 
two, nay, or but one soul, saved out of this ship, to have escaped to 
me, that I might but have had one companion, one fellow-creature 
to have spoken to me and to have conversed with!” In all the time 
of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so strong a desire after 
the society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at the want 
of it. 

There are some secret moving springs in the affections, which when' 
they are set a-going by some object in view, or be it some object, 
though not in view, yet rendered present to the mind by the power 
of imagination, that motion carries out the soul by its impetuosity to 
such violent eager embracings of the object that the absence of it is 
insupportable. 

Such were these earnest wishings that but one man had been 
saved! “O that it had been but one!” I believe I repeated the words, 
'‘O that it had been one!” a thousand times; and the desires were so 
moved by it that when I spoke the words my hands would clinch to- 
gether and my fingers press the palms of my hands, that if I had had 
any soft thing in my hand, it would have crushed it involuntarily; 
and my teeth in my head would strike together and set against one 
another so strong that for some time I could hot part them again. . . . 

Till the last year of my being on this island, I never knew whether 
any were saved out of that ship or no; and had only the affliction 
some days after to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore 
at the end of the island which was next the shipwreck. He had on 
no clothes but a seaman’s waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen 
drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct me so much as 
to guess what nation he was of. He had nothing in his pocket but two 
pieces of eight and a tobacco-pipe; the last was to me of ten times 
more value than the first 

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my 
boat to this wreck, not doubting but I mi^t find something on board 
that might be useful to me; but that did not altogether press me so 
modi as the possibility that tlmre might be yet some living creature 

121 



Daniel Defoe 

on board, whose life 1 might not only save but might, by saving that 
life, comfort my own to the last degree. . . . 

I resolved the next morning to set out widi the first of the fide; 
and reposing myself for the night in the canoe, under the great watch 
coat I mentioned, I launched out. I made first a little out to sea, full 
north, till I began to feel the benefit of the current, which set east- 
ward and which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not so hurry 
me as the southern side current had dope before, and so as to /take 
from me all government of the boat; but having a strong steerage 
with my paddle, I went at a great rate, directly for the wreck, an^ in 
less than two hours I came up to it. 

It was a dismal sight to look at. The ship, which by its .builckng 
was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks; all the stem 
and quarter of her was beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her 
forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great violence, 
her mainmast and foremast were brought by the board; that is to say, 
broken short off; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow 
appeared firm. When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her, 
who, seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and as soon as I called 
him, jumped into the sea to come to me, and I took him into the 
boat; but found him almost dead for hunger and thirst. I gave him 
a cake of my bread, and he ate it like a ravenous wolf that had been 
starving a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor creature some 
fresh water, with which, it 1 would have let him, he would have 
burst himself. 

After this I went on board; but the first sight I met with was two 
men drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle of the ship, with their 
arms fast about one another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, 
that when the ship strack, it being in a storm, the sea broke so high 
mul so continually over her that the men were not able to bear it 
aid were strangled with the constant rushing in of the water, as 
much as if they had been under water. Besides the dog, there was 
nothing left in the~ship that had life; nor any-goods that I could see 
but what were spoiled by the water. There were some casks of liquor, 
whether wine or brandy, I knew not, which lay lower in the hold; 
and which, the water being ebbed out, I could see; but they were 
too big to meddle with. I saw several chests, which I believed be- 
longed to some of the seammi; and I got two of fii«n into tlm boat, 
without examining what was in them. . . . 

I foimd, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of about 

122 



Robinson Crusoe 

twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much difficulty; tlMie 
were several muskets in a cabin and a great powder horn, with about 
four pounds of powder in it; as for the mmkets, I had no occasion 
for them; so I left them, but took the powder horn. I took a fire 
shovel and tongs, which I wanted extremely; as also two little brass 
kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron; and with 
this cargo and the dog I came away, the tide be^nning to make 
home again; and the same evening, about an hour within night, 1 
reached the island again, weary and fatigued to the last degree. 

I reposed that night in the boat, and in the morning I resolved to 
harbor what I had gotten in my new cave, not to carry it home to 
my castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and 
began to examine the particulars. The cask of liquor I found to be a 
kind of rum, but not such as we had at the Brazils; and in a wordf 
not at all good; but when I came to open the chests, I found several 
things of great use to me. For example, I found in one a fine case of 
bottles, of an extraordinary kind and filled with cordial waters, fine 
and very good; the bottles held about three pints each and were 
tipped with silver. I found two pots of very good succades, or sweet* 
meats, so fastened also on top that the salt water had not hurt them; 
and two more of the same, which the water had spoiled. I found 
some very good shirts, which were very welcome to me; and about 
a dozen and a half of linen white handkerchiefs and colored neck- 
cloths; the former were also very welcome, being exceeding refresh- 
ing to wipe my face in a hot day; besides this, when I came to the 
till in the chest, I found there three great bags of pieces of eig^t, 
which held out about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of 
them, wrapped up in a paper, six doubloons of gold and some small 
bars or wedges of gold; I suppose they might all weigh near a pound. 

The other chest I foimd ^d some clothes in it, but of little value; 
but by the circumstances it must have belonged to the gunner’s mate; 
though there was no powder in it but about two pound of fine gflazed 
powder, in three small flasks, kept, I suppose, for diarging their 
fowling pieces on occasion. Upon the whole, I got very little by this 
voyage that was of any use to me; for as to the money, I h^ iu> 
manner of occasion for it. ’Twas to me as tiie cfirt un^ my feet; 
and I would have g^ven it aU for three or four pair of Eng^sh shoes 
and stockings, which were things I greatly wanted but had not had 
on my feet now fcv many years. I had ii^eed gotten two pair of 
shoes now, wltidt I took off of the feet the two (browned men, who 

123 



Daniel Defoe 

I saw in the wreck; and I found two pair more in one of the chests, 
which were very welcome to me; but they were not like our English 
shoes, either for ease or service, being rather what we call pumps 
than shoes. 1 found in this seaman’s chest about fifty pieces of eight 
in royals but no gold; 1 suppose this belonged to a poorer man than 
die other, which seemed to belong to some officer. 

Well, however, I lugged this money home to my cave and laid it 
up, as I had done that before which I brought from our own ship; 
but it was great pity, as I said, that the other part of this shipl had 
not come to my share; for I am satisfied I might have loademmy 
canoe several times over with money, which, if I had ever escaped 
to En^and, would have lain here safe enough till I might have c^e 
again and fetched it. \ 

Having now brought all my things on shore and secured them, I 
went back to my boat and rowed or paddled her along the shore to 
her old harbor, where I laid her up, and made the best of my way 
to my old habitation, where I found everything safe and quiet; so I 
began to repose myself, live after my old fashion, and take care of 
my family ^airs; and, for a while, I lived easy enough, only that, I 
was more vigilant than I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not 
go abroad so much; and if at any time I did stir with any freedom, 
it was always to the east part of the island, where 1 was pretty well 
satisfied the savages never came, and where I could go without so 
many precautions and such a load of arms and ammunition as I 
always carried with me if I went the other way. 


Time to Get Me a Servant 

I LIVED IN THIS CONDITION near two years more; but my unlucky 
head, that was always to let me know it was bom to make my 
body miserable, was all this two years filled with projects and de- 
signs, how, if it were possible, 1 might get away from this island; for 
sometimes I was for making another voyage to the wreck, though my 
reason told me that there was nothing left there worth the hazard of 
my voyage; sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes toother; 
tod I believe verily, if 1 had had the boat that I went from Sale m, 
I should have ventured to sea, bound anywhere, I knew not whither. 

I have been in all my circumstances a memento to those who axe 
toudied with the general plague of mankind, whence, for aught I 

124 



Robinson Crusoe 

know, one half of their miseries flow; I mean, that of not being sat- 
isfied with the station \rfierein God and Nature had placed them; 
for, not to look back upon my primitive condition and the excellent 
advice of my father, the opposition to which was, as I may call it, 
my original sirt, my subsequent mistakes of the same kind had been 
the means of my coming into this miserable condition; for had that 
Providence, which so happily had seated me at the Brazils as a 
planter, blessed me with coined desires, and I could have been 
contented to have gone on gradually, I might have been, by this time, 

I mean in the time of my being in this island, one of the most con- 
siderable planters in the Brazils; nay, I am persuaded that by the 
improvements 1 had made in that little time I lived there and the 
increase I should probably have made if I had stayed, I might have 
been worth an hundred thousand moidores; and what business had 
1 to leave a settled fortune, a well-stocked plantation, improving and 
increasing, to turn supercargo to Guinea, to fetch Negroes, when 
patience and time would have so increased our stock at home that we 
could have bought them at our own door from those whose business 
it was to fetch them? And though it had cost us something more, yet 
the difference of that price was by no means worth saving at so great 
a hazard. 

But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, so reflection upon 
the folly of it is as ordinarily the exercise of more years or of the 
dear-bought experience of time; and so it was with me now; and yet 
so deep Lid the mistake taken root in my temper that I could not 
satisfy myself in my station but was continually poring upon the 
means and possibility of my escape from this place; and that I may, 
with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring on the remaining part 
of my story, it may not be improper to give some account of my first 
conceptions on the subject of this foolish scheme for my escape, and 
how, and upon what foundation, I acted. 

I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after my late 
voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and secured under water, 
as usual, and my condition restored to what it was before. I had 
more wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was not at all the richer; 
for I had no more use for it than the Indians of Peru had before the 
Spaniards came there. 

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in Mardi, the four and 
twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island of sditariness; I 
was lying in my bed, or hammock, awake, very wdl in health, Lul 

125 



Daniel Defoe 

no pain, no (Ustemper, no uneasiness of body; no, nor any unead- 
ness of mind, more than ordinary; but could by no means close my 
eyes; that is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink all nig^ long, otherwise 
than as follows: 

... I dreamed that as I was going out in the morning as usual 
from my castle, I saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages 
coming to land, and that they brought with them another savage, 
whom they were going to kill, in order to eat him; when on a sudden, 
the savage that they were going to kiH jumped away, and ran fbr his 
life; and I thought in my sleep that he came running into mv little 
thick grove, before my fortification, to hide himself; and that l\ see- 
ing him alone and not perceiving that the others sought himi\ that 
way, showed myself to him, and smiling upon him, encouraged 1^; 
that he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray me to assist him; u^n 
which I showed my ladder, made him go up, and carried him into 
my cave, and he became my servant; and that as soon as I had gotten 
this man, I said to myself, “Now I may certainly venture to the main- 
land; for this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to 
do and whither to go for provisions; and whither not to go for fear of 
being devoured; wW places to venture into, and what to escape.?’ I 
waked with this thought and was under such inexpressible impressions 
of joy at the prospect of my escape in my dream that the disappoint- 
ments which I felt upon coming to myself and finding it was no more 
than a dream were equally extravagant the other way, and threw me 
into a very great dejection of spirit. 

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that my only way to 
go about an attempt for an escape was, if possible, to get a savage 
into my possession; and if possible, it should be one of their prison- 
ers who they had condemned to be eaten and should bring hither to 
kill; but these thoughts still were attended with this difficulty, that it 
was impossible to effect this without attacking a whole caravan of 
them and killmg them all; and this was not only a very desperate 
attempt and mi^t miscarry, but on the offier hand, I had greatly 
scrupled the lawfulness of it to me; and my heart trembled at the 
thoughts of shedding so much blood, though it was for my ddiver- 
ance. 1 need not repeat the arguments which occurred to me against 
this, they being the same mentioned before; but thougjir I had other 
reascms to offer now, viz., that those men were enemies to my life 
ax^ wotdd devour me if they could; that it was self-fneservation, in 
the hipest degree, to deliver myself from this death of a life, and 

126 



Robinson Crusoe 

was acting in my own defense as much as if they wen actuaHy as- 
saulting me, and the like; I say, though these things argued for it, 
yet the thoughts of stwdding human blood for my deliverance weie 
very terrible to me, and such as 1 could by no means reconcile my- 
self to a great while. 

However, at last, after many secret disputes with myself and after 
great perplexities about it, for all these arguments, one way and an- 
other, struggled in my head a long time, the eager prevailing desire 
of deliverance at len^ mastered all the rest, and I resolved, if pos- 
sible, to get one of those savages into my hands, cost what it would. 
My next thing then was to contrive how to do it, and this uKfeed was 
very difficult to resolve on. But as I could pitch upon no probable 
means for it, so I resolved to put myself upon the watch, to see them 
when they came on shore, and leave the rest to the event, taking 
such measures as the opportunity should present, let be what would* 
be. . . . 

About a year and half after I had entertained these notions and, 
by long musing, had as it were resolved them all into nothing, for 
want of an occasion to put them in execution, I was surprised one 
morning early with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore to- 
gether on my side the island; and the people who belonged to them 
all landed, and out of my sight. The number of them broke all my 
measures, for seeing so many and knowing that they always came 
four or six, or sometimes more in a boat, I could not tell what to 
think of it, or how to take my measures, to attack twenty or thirty 
men singlehanded; so I lay still in my castle, perplexed and dis- 
comforted. However, I put myself into all the same postures for an 
attack that I had formerly provided and was just ready for action if 
anything had presented; having waited a good while, listening to hear 
if they made any noise, at length being very impatient, I set my guns 
at the foot of my ladder and clambered up to the top of the hill by my 
two stages as usual; standing so, however, that my head did not ap- 
pear above the hill, so that they could not perceive me by any means; 
here I observed by the help of my perspective-^^ass that they were 
no less tiUtn thirty in number, that ffiey had a fire kincUed, that they 
had had meat dressed. How they had cooked it, that I knew not, or 
what it was; but they were all dancing in I kimw not how many bar- 
barous gestures and figures, their own way, round the fire. 

While I was thus bxddng on diem, I perceived by my perspective 
two miserable wretd^s draped firom the boats, whore, it seems, 

. 127 



Daniel Defoe 

they were laid by, and were now brought out for the slaughter, 1 
perceived one of them immediately fell, being knocked down, 1 sup- 
pose, with a club or wooden sword, for that was their way, and two 
or three others were at work immediately, cutting him open for their 
cookery, while the other victim was left standing by himself, till they 
should be ready for him. In that very moment, this poor wretch 
seeing himself a little at liberty. Nature inspired him with hopes of 
life, and he started away from them, and ran with incredible swift- 
ness along the sands directly toward me, I mean toward that part 
of the coast where my habitation was. 

I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknowledge) when i per- 
ceived him to run my way; and especially, when, as I thought, I saw 
him pursued by the whole body; and now I expected that part of my 
dream was coming to pass, and that he would certainly take sh^ter 
in my grove; but I could not depend by any means upon my dream 
for the rest of it, viz., that the other savages would not pursue him 
thither, and find him there. However, I kept my station, and my 
spirits began to recover when I foimd that there was not above three 
men that followed him; and still more was I encouraged when I 
found that he outstripped them exceedingly in running and gained 
ground of them; so that if he could but hold it for half an hour, I 
saw easily he would fairly get away from them all. 

There was between them and my castle the creek which I men- 
tioned often at the first part of my story, when 1 landed my cargoes 
out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must necessarily swim over, 
or the poor wretch would be taken there. But when the savage es- 
caping came thither, he made nothing of it, though the tide was then 
up, but plunging in, swam through in about thirty strokes or there- 
a^uts, landed, and ran on with exceeding strength and swiftness; 
when the three persons came to the creek, I found that two of them 
could swim, but the third could not, and that standing on the other 
side, he looked at the other, but went no farther; and soon after went 
softly back again; which, as it happened, was very well for him in 
the main. 

I observed that the two who swam were yet more than twice as 
long swimming over the creek as the fellow was that fled from them. 
It came now very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, 
(hat now was my time to get me a servant, and perhaps a compan- 
ion, or assistant; and that I was called plainly by Providence to save 
this poor creature’s life; I immediately run down the ladders with 

128 



Robinson Crusoe 

all possible expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both bat 
at the foot of the ladders, as I observed above; and getting up again, 
with the same haste, to the top of the hill, I crossed toward the sea; 
and having a very short cut, and all down hill, clapped myself in the 
way between the pursuers and the pursued; hallooing aloud to him 
that fled, who, looking back, was at first perhaps as much frighted at 
me as at them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to come back; 
and in the meantime, I slowly advanced toward the two that fol- 
lowed; then rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down 
with the stock of my piece; I was loath to fire, because I would not 
have the rest hear; though at that distance, it would not have been 
easily beard, and being out of sight of the smoke too, they wotild 
not have easily known what to make of it. Having knocked this fel- 
low down, the other who pursued with him stopped, as if he had 
been frighted; and I advanced apace toward him; but as I came* 
nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow and arrow and was fitting 
it to shoot at me; so I was then necessitated to shoot at him first, 
which I did, and killed him at the first shoot; the poor savage who 
fled, but had stopped, though he saw both his enemies fallen and 
killed, as he thought, yet was so frighted with the fire and noise of 
my piece, that he stood stock still and neither came forward nor went 
bac^ard, though he seemed rather inclined to fly still than to come 
on; I hallooed again to him, and made signs to come forward, which 
he easily understood and came a little way, then stopped again and 
then a little farther and stopped again, and I could then perceive 
that he stood trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and had 
just been to be killed, as his two enemies were; I beckoned him 
again to come to me and gave him all the signs of encouragement that 
I could think of, and he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down 
every ten or twelve steps in token of acknowledgment for my sav- 
ing his life. I smiled at him and looked pleasantly and beckoned to 
him to come still nearer; at length he came close to nie, and then 
he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid his head upon 
the ground, and, taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his head; 
this, it seems, was in token of swearing to be my slave forever; I 
took him up, and made much of him, and encouraged him all I 
could. But there was more work to do yet, for I perceived the savage 
who I knocked down was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and 
began to come to himself; so I pointed to him, and showing him the 
savage, that he was not dead; upon this he spoke some words to me, 

129 



Daniel Defoe 

and though I could not understand them, yet I thw^ they were 
pleasant to hear, for they were the first sound of a man's voice that 
I had heard, my own excepted, for about twenty-five years. But 
there was no time for such reflections now; the savage ^o was 
knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up upon the ground, 
and I perceived that my savage began to be afraid; but when I saw 
that, I presented my other piece at the man as if I would shoot him; 
upon this my savage, for so I call him now, made a motion to me to 
lend him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side;/ so I 
did. He no sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy, and at onejblow 
cut off his head as cleverly, no executioner in Germany could nave 
done it sooner or better; which I thought very strange for one Who 
I had reason to believe never saw a sword in his life before, exrapt 
their own wooden swords; however, it seems, as I learned afterward, 
they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is 
so hard, that they will cut off heads even with them, ay, and arms, 
and that at one blow too; when he had done this, he comes laughing 
to me in sign of triumph and brought me the sword again, and with 
abundance of gestures which 1 did not understand, laid it down, 
with the head of the savage that he had killed, just before me. j 

But that which astonished him most was to know how I had killed 
the other Indian so far off; so pointing to him, he made signs to me 
to let him go to him; so I bade him go, as well as I could; when he 
came to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him, turned him 
first on one side, then on t’ other, looked at the wound the bullet had 
made, which, it seems, was just in his breast, where it had made a 
hole, and no great quantity of blood had followed, but he had bled 
inwardly, for he was quite dead. He took up his bow and arrows, 
and came back; so I turned to go away and beckoned to him to 
follow me, making signs to him that more might come after them. 

Upon this he signed to me that he should bury them with sand, 
that they mi^t not be seen 1^ the rest if they followed; and so I 
made signs again to him to do so; he fell to work, and in an instant 
he had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands big enou^ to 
bury the first in, and then dragged him into it and covered him and 
did so also by the other; I b^eve he had buried ffiem both hi a 
quarter of an hour; then calling him away, 1 carried him, not to my 
castle, but quite away to my cave, on the farther part ai the island; 
so I did not let my dream come to pass in that part, viz., that he came 
into my grove for shelter. 

130 



Robinson Crusoe 

Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a rfrangh^ 
of water, which I found he was indeed in great distress for, by his 
running; and ha^g refreshed him, I made signs for him to go lie 
down and sleep, pointing to a {dace where I had laid a great parcel 
of rice-straw and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon my- 
self sometimes; so the poor creature lay down and went to sleep. 


My Man Friday 

H e was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with 
straight strong limbs, not too large; tall and well-shaped, and, 
as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He had a very good coun- 
tenance, not a fierce and surly aspect; but seemed to have something 
very manly in his face, and yet he had all the sweetness and' 
softness of an European in his countenance too, especially when he 
smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled like wool; his fore- 
head very high and large; and a great vivacity and sparkling sharp- 
ness in his eyes. The color of his skin was not quite black, but very 
tawny; and yet not of an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazil- 
ians and Virginians, and other natives of America are; but of a 
bright kind of a dim olive color that had in it something very agree- 
able, though not very easy to describe. His face was round and 
plump; his nose small, not flat like the Negroes; a very good mouth, 
thin lips, and his fine teeth well set, and white as ivory. After he 
had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour, he waked 
again, and comes out of the cave to me; for I had been milking my 
goats, which I had in the enclosure just by. When he espied me, he 
came running to me, laying himself down again upon the ground, 
with all the possible signs of an humble, thankful disposition, making 
a many antic ^stores to show it. At last he lays his head flat upon 
the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon his head, 
as he had done before; and after this, made all the si^ to me of 
subjection, servitude, and submission imaginable, to let me know 
how he would serve me as long as he lived; I understood him in 
many things and let him know I was very well f^ased with him; in 
a little time I began to speak to him and teach him to speak to me; 
and first, I made him know his name should be Friday, which was 
the day I saved his life; I called him so for the memory of the timer, 
I likewise taught him to say Master, and then let him know that was 

. 131 



Daniel Defoe 

to be my name; I likewise taught him to say Yes and No and to know 
the meaning of them; I gave him some milk in an earthen pot and let 
him see me drink it before him and sop my bread in it; and I gave him 
a cake of bread to do the like, which he quickly complied with, and 
made signs that it was very good for him. 

I kept there with him all that nig^t; but as soon as it was day, I 
beckoned to him to come with me, and let him know I would give 
him some clothes, at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark 
naked. As we went by the place where -he had buried the two fnen, 
he pointed exactly to the place and showed me the marks that he 
had made to find them again, making signs to me that we should 
dig them up again and eat them; at this I appeared very angry, ^ex- 
pressed my abhorrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the thoumts 
of it, and beckoned with my hand to him to come away, which\he 
did immediately, with great submission. I then led him up to the 
top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone; and pulling out my 
glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place where they had been, but 
no appearance of them or of their canoes; so that it was plain they 
were gone and had left their two comrades behind them, without any 
search after them. 

But I was not content with this discovery; but having now more 
courage, and consequently more curiosity, I takes my man Friday 
with me, giving him the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows 
at his back, which I found he could use very dexterously, making him 
carry one gun for me, and I two for myself, and away we marched 
to tte place where these creatures had been; for I had a mind now 
to get some fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the place, my 
very blood ran chill in my veins and my heart sank within me at 
the horror of the spectacle. Indeed it was a dreadful sight, at least it 
was so to me, though Friday made nothing of it. The place was 
covered with human bones, the ground dyed with their blood, great 
pieces of flesh left here and there, half eaten, mangled and scorched; 
and in short, of all the tokens of the triumphant feast they had been 
making there, after a victory over their enemies. 1 saw t^ee skulls, 
five hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet, and abup- 
dance of other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made 
me understand that they brought over four prisoners to feast upon; 
that three of them were eaten up and that he, pointing to himself, 
was the fourth; that there had been a great battle between them and 
their next king, whose subjects it seems he had been one of; and that 

132 



Robinson Crusoe 

they had taken a great number of prisoners, all which were carried 
to several places by those that had taken them in the fig^t, in order to 
feast upon them, as was done here by these wretches upon those they 
brought hither. 

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and whatever 
remained, and lay them together on a heap and make a great fire 
upon it and bum them all to ashes. I found Friday had still a 
hankering stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a cannibal 
in his nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at the very 
thoughts of it and at the least appearance of it that he dared not dis- 
cover it; for I had by some means let him know that I would kill 
him if he offered it. 

When we had done this, we came back to our castle, and there I 
fell to work for my man Friday; and first of all, I gave him a pair of 
linen drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner’s chest I men- 
tioned, and which I found in the wreck; and which with a little altera- 
tion fitted him very well; then I made him a jerkin of goat’s skin, as 
well as my skill would allow, and I was now grown a tolerable good 
tailor; and I gave him a cap, which I had made of a hare-skin, very 
convenient and fashionable enough; and thus he was clothed for the 
present tolerably well; and was mighty well pleased to see himself 
almost as well clothed as his master. It is trae, he went awkwardly in 
these things at first; wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, 
and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoul^s and the inside 
of his arms; but a little easing them where he complained they hurt 
him and using himself to them, at length he took to them very well. 

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, I began to 
consider where I should lodge him; and that I might do well for him 
and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him in 
the vacant place between my two fortifications, in the inside of the 
last and in the outside of the first; and as there was a door or entrance 
there into my cave, I made a formal framed door-case, and a door to 
it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little within the entrance; 
and causing the door to open on &e inside, I barred it up in the night, 
taking in my ladders too; so that Friday could no way come at me 
in the inside of my innermost wall without making so much noise in 
getting over that it must needs waken me; for my first wall had now a 
complete roof over it of long poles, covering all my tent and leaning 
up to the side of the hill, which was again laid across with sma!^ 
sticks instead of laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with 

133 



Daniel Defoe 

die rice-straw, whidi was strong like reeds; and at die hole or jdace 
which was left to go in or out by the ladder I had placed a kind of 
trapdoor, which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would 
not have opened at all, but would have fallen down and made a 
great noise; and as to weapons, I took them all into my side every 
ni^t. 

But I needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a 
more faithful, loving, sincere servant thw Friday was to me; without 
passions, sullenness, or designs, pei^ectly obliged and enraged; 
his very affections were tied to me, like those of a child to a rather; 
and I dare say he would have sacrificed his life for the saving\mine 
upon any occasion whatsoever; the many testimonies he gave me of 
this put it out of doubt and soon convinced me that I needed ta use 
no precautions as to my safety on his account. ' 

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with won- 
der, that however it had pleased God, in His providence, and in the 
government of the works of His hands, to take from so great a part 
of the world of His creatures the best uses to which their faculties 
and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that He has bestowed 
upon them the same powers, the same reason, the same affections, 
the same sentiments of kindness and obligation, the same passions 
and resentments of wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, 
fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good and receiving good that 
He has given to us; and that when He pleases to offer to them oc- 
casions of exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more ready to ap- 
ply them to the right uses for which they were bestowed than we are. 
And this made me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the 
several occasions presented, how mean a use we make of all these, 
even though we have these powers enlightened by the great lamp 
of instruction, the Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of His Word, 
added to our understanding; and why it has pleased God to hide the 
like saving knowledge from so many millions of souls, who, if I might 
judge by this poor savage, would make a much better use of it than 
we did. 

From hence, I sometimes was led too far to invade the sovereignty 
of Providence and, as it were, arraign the justice of so arbitrary a 
disporition of things that should hide that li^t from some and reveal 
it to others, and yet espect a like duty from both. But 1 shut it up 
and diedced my thoughts with this crmdusion; first, that we did n<^ 
know by what li^ and law these should be condemned; but that 

134 



Robinson Crusoe 

as God was necessarily, and by the nature of His being, infinitd.y 
holy and just, so it could not be but that if these creatures were ali 
sentenced to absence from Himself, it was on account of sinning 
against that U^t which, as the Scripture says, was a law to them- 
selves, and by such rules as their consciences would acknowledge to 
be just, thou^ the foundation was not discovered to us. And second, 
that stiU, as we are all the clay in the hand of the Potter, no vessel 
could say to Him, “Why hast Thou formed me thus?” 

But to return to my new companion: I was greatly delisted with 
him and made it my business to teach him everything that was proper 
to make him useful, handy, and helpful; but especially to make him 
speak and understand me when I spoke; and he was the aptest scholar 
that ever was, and particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent, 
and so pleased when he could but understand me or make me under- 
stand him that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him; and now my 
life began to be so easy tiiat I began to say to myself that could I but 
have been safe from more savages, I cared not if I was never to re- 
move from the place while I lived. 

After 1 had been two or three days returned to my castle, I thought 
that, in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding and 
from the relish of a cannibal’s stomach, I ought to let him taste other 
flesh; so I took him out with me one morning to the woods. I went, 
indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock and bring him 
home and dress it. But as I was going, 1 saw a she-goat lying down in 
the shade and two young kids sitting by her; I caught hold of Friday. 
“Hold,” says I, “stand stiU”; and made signs to him not to stir; im- 
mediately I presented my piece, shot and killed one of the kids. The 
poor creature, who had at a distance, indeed, seen me kill the sav- 
age, his miemy, but did not know or could imagine how it was done, 
was sensibly surprised, trembled and shook, and looked so amazed 
that I thought he would have sunk down. He did not see the kid I 
had shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat 
to fed if he was not wounded, and, as I found presentiy, thought 1 
was resolved to kill him; for he came and kneel^ down to me and, 
embracing my knees, said a great many things I did not understand; 
but I could easily see that the meaning was to pray me not to kill him. 

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no harm 
and, taking him up by the hand, lau|^ed at him and pdnted to the ' 
kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he 
did; and while he was wondering and looking to see Ixm the creature 

135 



Daniel Defoe 

was killed, I loaded my gun again, and by and by I saw a great fowl, 
like a hawk, sit upon a tree, within shot; so, to let Friday understand 
a little what I would do, I called him to me again, pointed at the fowl, 
which was indeed a parrot, though I thought it had been a hawk; 1 
say, pointing to the parrot and to my gun and to the groimd under 
the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made him under- 
stand that I would shoot and kill that bird; accordingly I fired and 
bade him look, and immediately he saw the parrot fall, he stood like 
one frighted again, notwithstan^g all Iliad said to him; and I |ound 
he was the more amazed because he did not see me put anything into 
the gun; but thought that there must be some wonderful fum of 
death and destruction in that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or 
anything near or far off; and the astonishment this created inuim 
was such as could not wear off for a long time; and I believe, u 1 
would have let him, he would have worshiped me and my gun. As 
for the gun itself, he would not so much as touch it for several days 
after; but would speak to it and talk to it as if it had answered him, 
when he was by himself; which, as I afterward learned of him, was 
to desire it not to kill him. 

Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed' to 
him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, but stayed 
some time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, was fluttered away 
a good way off from the place where she fell; however, he found her, 
took her up, and brought her to me; and as I had perceived his igno- 
rance about the gun before, I took this advantage to charge the gun 
again and not let him see me do it, that I might be ready for any other 
mark that mig|it present; but nothing more offered at that time; so I 
brought home the kid, and the same evening I took the skin off and 
cut it out as well as I could; and having a pot for that purpose, I 
boiled, or stewed, some of the flesh, and made some very good broth; 
and after I had begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who 
seemed very glad of it and liked it very well; but that which was 
strangest to him was to see me eat salt with it; he made a sign to me 
that the salt was not good to eat, and putting a little into his own 
mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, 
washing his mouth with fresh water after it; on the other hand, 1 took 
some meat in my mouth without salt, and I pretended to spit and 
sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the salt; but it would 
not do; be would never care for salt with his meat or in his broth; at 
least, not a great while, and then but a very little. 

136 



Robinson Crusoe 

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved 
to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid; this I did 
by hanging it before the fire in a string, as I had seen many people 
do in England, setting two poles up, one on each side the fire, and 
one cross on the top, and tying the string to the cross-stick, letting the 
meat turn continually. This Friday admired very much; but when he 
came to taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he 
liked it that I could not but understand him; and at last he told me 
he would never eat man’s flesh any more, which I was very glad to 
hear. 

The next day I set him to work to beating some com out, and 
sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before, and he 
soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after he had seen 
what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of; for 
after that I let him see me make my bread and bake it too, and in a 
little time Friday was able to do all the work for me, as well as I 
could do it myself, 

I began now to consider that having two mouths to feed instead of 
one, 1 must provide more ground for my harvest and plant a larger 
quantity of com than I used to do; so I marked out a larger piece 
of land and began the fence in the same manner as before, in which 
Friday not only worked very willingly and very hard but did it very 
cheerfully; and I told him what it was for, that it was for com to 
make more bread, because he was now with me, and that I might 
have enough for him and myself too. He appeared very sensible of 
that part and let me know that he thought I had much more labor 
upon me on his account than I had for myself; and that he would 
work the harder for me, if I would tell him what to do. 

Some Hopes That I Might Escape 

T his was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place; 

Friday began to talk pretty well and understand the names of 
almost everything I had occasion to call for, and of every place I 
had to send him to, and talk a great deal to me; so that, in slmrt, I be- 
gan now to have some use for my tongue again, which indeed I had 
very little occasion for before; that is to say, about speech; besides the 
pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the feUow 
himself; his sim{de, unfeigned honesty appeared to me more and 

137 



Darnel Defoe 

mote every day, and I began really to love the creature; and, on his 
side, I believe he loved me more than it was possible for him ever to 
love anything before. 

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering inclination to 
his own country again, and having taught him English so well that he 
could answer me almost any questions, I asked him whether the na- 
tion that he belonged to never conquered in battle. At which he 
smiled, smd said, “Yes, yes, we always .fight the better”; that is, he 
meant, always get the better in fight; and so we began the foUonvmg 
discourse: “You always fight the better,” said I, “how came yw to 
be taken prisoner then, Friday?” \ 

FRIDAY: My nation beat much, for all that \ 

master: How beat? If your nation beat them; how came you to\be 
taken? 

FRIDAY: They more many than my nation in the place where me 
was; they take one, two, three, and me; my nation overbeat them in 
the yonder place, where me no was; there my nation take one, two, 
great thousand. 

master: But why did not your side recover you from the hanfls 
of your enemies then? 

FRIDAY: They nm one, two, three, and me, and make go in the 
canoe; my nation have no canoe that time. 

master: Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with the 
men they take? Do they carry them away, and eat them, as these 
did? 

FRIDAY: Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up. 
master: Where do they carry them? 

FRIDAY: Go to other place, where they think. 
master: Do they come hither? 

FRIDAY: Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place. 
master: Have you been here with them? 

FRIDAY: Yes, I been here. [Points to the northwest side of the 
island, which it seems was their side.] 

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been 
amtmg the savages who used to come on shore on the farther part of 
the idand, on the same man-eafing occasions that he was now brought 
fior; and some time after, when I took the courage to carry him to 
^t side, being the same I formerly mentioned, he presently knew 
the place and told me he was there once wbm they ate up twenty 
mmi, two women, and one child; he coukl not tell twen^ in English, 

138 



Robinson Qeiusoe 

but he numbered them by la^g so many stones on a row wd pdlnt- 
ing to me to tell them over. 

I have told this passage because it introduces what follows; that 
after I had had this discourse with him, I asked him how far it was 
from our islmid to the shore, and whether the canoes were not often 
lost; he told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that 
after a little way out to the sea, there was a current and a wind, al- 
ways one way in the morning, die other in the afternoon. 

This I understood to be no more than the sets of the tide, as going 
out or coming in; but I afterward understood it was occasioned by 
the great draft and reflux of the mighty river Orinoco, in the mouth, 
or the gulf, of which river, as I found afterwards, our island lay; 
and this land which I perceived to the west and northwest was the 
great island Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the rivw, 
I asked Friday a thousand questions about the country, the inhabit- 
ants, the sea, the coast, and what nation were near; he told me all he 
knew with the greatest openness imaginable; I asked him the names 
of the several nations of his sort of people, but could get no other 
name than Caribs; from whence 1 easily understood that these were 
the Caribbees, which our maps place on the part of America which 
reaches from the mouth of the river Orinoco to Guiana, and onwards 
to St. Martha. He told me that up a great way beyond the moon, that 
was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must be west from their 
coimtry, there dwelt white bearded men, like me, and pointed to my 
great whiskers, which I mentioned before; and that they had killed 
much Mans, that was his word; by all which I imderstood he meant 
the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had been spread over the 
whole countries and was remembered by all the nations from father 
to son. 

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from this island 
and get among those white men; he told me, “Yes, yes, I mig^t go 
in two canoe"; I could not understand what he meant, or make him 
describe to me what he meant by “two canoe,” till at last, with great 
difficult, 1 found he meant it must be in a large great boat, as big 
as two canoes. 

This part of Friday’s discourse began to rdish with me very wefl 
and £com diis time 1 entertained some hopes that, one time or other, 
I miglit find an opportuni^ to make my escape from this ^ace and 
that this poor savage mig^t be a means to help me to do it. 

During the long tinm that Friday had now been vidth me, and that 

1^9 



Daniel Defoe 

he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was not wanting to 
lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his mind; particularly I 
asked him one time, who made him? The poor creature did not 
understand me at all, but thought I had asked who was his father; 
but I took it by another handle and asked him who made the sea, the 
ground we walked on, and the hills and woods; he told me it was one 
old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all. He could describe nothing of 
this great person but that he was very old; much older, he said, ^an 
the sea or the land, than the moon or the stars. I asked him then, if 
this old person had made all things, why did not all things wor^p 
him. He looked very grave, and with a perfect look of innoceiKe, 
said, “All things do say ‘O!’ to him." I asked him if the people vmo 
die in his country went away anywhere; he said, yes, they all we^t 
to Benamuckee; then I asked him whether these they ate up went 
thither too. He said, “Yes.” 

From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of the 
true God. I told him that the great Maker of all things lived up there, 
pointing up towards Heaven. That He governs the world by the 
same Power and Providence by which He made it. That He was 
omnipotent, could do everything for us, give everything to us, takb 
everything from us; and thus by degrees I opened his eyes. He lis- 
tened with great attention, and received with pleasure the notion of 
Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making 
our prayers to God, and His being able to hear us, even into Heaven; 
he told me one day that if our God could hear us up beyond the sun. 
He must needs be a greater God than their Benamuckee, who lived 
but a little way off, and yet could not hear till they went up to the 
great mountains where he dwelt, to speak to him; I asked him if he 
ever went thither to speak to him; he said, no; they never went that 
were young men; none went thither but the old men, who he called 
their Oowokakee, that is, as I made him explain it to me, their 
religious, or clergy; and that they went to say O (so he called saying 
prayers), and then came back and told them >^at Benamuckee said. 
By this 1 observed, that there is priestcraft even amongst the most 
blinded, ignorant pagans in the world; and the policy of making a 
secret religion, in order to preserve the veneration of the people to 
the der^, is not only to be found in the Roman but perhaps among 
an rdigions in the world, even among the most brutish and bar- 
barous savages. 

I Mdeavored to clear up this fraud to my man Friday, and told 

140 



Robinson Crusoe 

him that the pretense of their old men gping up the mountains to say 
O to their god Benamuckee was a cheat, and their bringing word 
from thence what he said was much more so; that if they met with 
any answer or spake with anyone there, it must be with an evil 
spirit. And then I entered into a long discourse with him about the 
Devil, the original of him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to 
man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the 
world to be worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many 
stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to his ruin; how he 
had a secret access to our passions and to our affections, to adapt his 
snares so to our inclinations as to cause us even to be our own tempters 
and to run upon our destruction by our own choice. 

I fotmd it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind about 
the Devil, as it was about the being of a God. Nature assisted all my 
arguments to evidence to him even the necessity of a great First 
Cause and overruling, governing Power, a secret directing Providence, 
and of the equity and justice of paying homage to Him that made us, 
and the like. But there appeared nothing of all this in the notion of 
an evil spirit, of his original, his being, his nature, and above all, of 
his inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so too; and the poor 
creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by a question merely 
natural and innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to him. I had 
been talking a great deal to him of the power of God, His omnipo- 
tence, His dreadful nature to sin. His being a consuming fire to the 
workers of iniquity; how, as He had made us all. He could destroy us 
and all the world in a moment; and he listened with great seriousness 
to me all the while. 

After this, I had been telling him how the Devil was God’s enemy 
in the hearts of men and used all his malice and skill to defeat the 
good designs of Providence and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the 
world, and the like. “Well,” says Friday, “but you say, God is so 
strong, so great; is He not much strong, much might as the Devil?” 
“Yes, yes,” says I, “Friday, God is stronger tiian the Devil, God is 
above the Devil, and therefore we pray to God to tread him down 
under our feet and enable us to resist his temptations and quench 
his fiery darts.” “But,” says he again, “if God much strong, much 
might as the Devil, why God no kill the Devfl, so make him no more 
do wicked?” 

1 was strangely surprised at his question, and after all, thoug|h I 
was now an old man, yet I was but a young doctor, and ill enough 

141 



Daniel Defoe 

qualified for a casuist, or a solver of difBculties. And at first I could 
not tell what to say, so I pretended not to hear him, and asked him 
what he said. But he was too earnest for an answer to forget his 
question; so that he repeated it in the very same brokmi words as 
above. By this time I had recovered myself a little, and 1 said, “God 
will at last punish him severely; he is reserved for the judgment and 
is to be cast into the bottomless fnt, to dwell with everlasting fire.” 
This did not satisfy Friday, but he returns upon me, repeating, my 
words, “ ‘Reserve at last,’ me no understand; but why not kill | the 
Devil now, not kill great ago?” “You may as well ask me,” said I, 
“why God does not kill you and me, when we do wicked things here 
that offend Him. We are preserved to repent and be pardoned.” 
He muses awhile at this. “Well, well,” says he, mighty affectionately, 
“that well; so you, I, Devil, all wicked, all preserve, repent, God 
pardon all.” Here I was run down again by him to the last degree, 
and it was a testimony to me how the mere notions of nature, though 
they will guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God, and 
of a worship or homage due to the supreme being of God, as the 
consequence of our nature, yet nothing but Divine revelation can 
form ^e knowledge of Jesus Christ and of a redemption purchasetl 
for us, of a Mediator of the new covenant, and of an Intercessor 
at the footstool of God’s throne; I say, nothing but a revelation 
from Heaven can form these in the soul; and that therefore the Gos- 
pel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean, the Word of God 
and the Spirit of God promised for the guide and sanctifier of His 
people are the absolutely necessary instructors of the souls of men, 
in the saving knowledge of God, and the means of salvation. 

I therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my 
man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden occasion of going out; 
then sending him for something a good way off, I seriously prayed to 
God that He would enable me to instruct savin^y this poor savage, 
assisting by His Spirit the heart of the poor ignorant creature to re- 
ceive the li^t of the knowledge of God in Omst, reconciling him to 
Himself, and would guide me to speak so to him from the Word of 
God as his conscience might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his 
soul saved. When he came again to me, 1 entered into a long dis- 
course with him upon the subject of the redemption of man by the 
Saviour of the worid, and of the doctrine of the Gos|>d preached 
from Heaven, viz., of r^mttance toward God, and faith in our 
Ifiessed Lord Jesus. I then etqtlained to him, as well as I cou^ u4ty 

142 



Robinson Crusoe 

our blessed Redeemer took sot on Him the nature of angels but 
the seed of Abraham, and how for that reason the fallen angds had 
no share in the redemption; that He came only to the lost sheep of the 
House of Israel, and the like. 

I had, God knows, mcne sinceriQr than knowledge in all the meth- 
ods I took for this poor creature’s instruction and must acknowledge 
what I believe all that act upon the same principle will find, that in 
laying things open to him, 1 really informed and instructed myself 
in many things, that either I did not know or had not fully con- 
sidered before, but which occurred naturally to my mind upon my 
searching into them for the information of this poor savage; and I 
had more affection in my inquiry after things upon this occasion than 
ever I felt before; so that whether this poor wild wretch was the 
better for me, or no, I had great reason to be thankful that ever he* 
came to me. My grief set lighter upon me, my habitation grew 
comfortable to me beyond measure; and when I reflected that in this 
solitary life which I had been confined to 1 had not only been moved 
myself to look up to Heaven and to seek to the Hand that had brought 
me there; but was now to be made an instrument under Providence 
to save the life and, for aught I knew, the soul of a poor savage, and 
bring him to the true knowledge of reli^on, and of the Christian 
doctrine, that he miglit know Christ Jesus, to know whom is life 
eternal; I say, when I reflected upon all these things, a secret joy 
run through every part of my soul, and I frequently rejoiced diat 
ever I was brought to this place, which I had so often thought the 
most dreadful of all afifiictions that could possibly have befallen me. 

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my time, 
and the conversation which employed the hours between Friday and 
me was such as made the three years whi(di we lived there together 
perfectly and completely happy, if any such thing as complete h^ 
piness can be formed in a sublunary state. The savage was now a 
good Christian, a much better than I; though I have reason to hope, 
and bless God for it, that we were equally penitent, and comfort 
restored penitents; we had here the Word of God to read and no 
further off frcun His Spirit to instruct than if we had been in England. 

I always aj^lied myself in reading the Scripture to let him kntiw, 
as wdl as I could, tiie meaning of what I read; and he again, by his se* 
rions inquiries and questionings, made me, as I said before, a much 
better scholar in the Scripture knowledge than I should ever have been 
by my own private mere reading. Another thing I cannot r^ain from 

143 



Daniel Defoe 

observing here also, from experience in this retired part of my life, 
viz., how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is that the knowledge 
of God and of the doctrine of salvation by Christ Jesus is so plainly 
laid down in the Word of God, so easy to be received and under- 
stood, that as the bare reading the Scripture made me capable of 
understanding enough of my du^ to carry me directly on to the 
great work of sincere repentance for my sins, and laying hold of a 
Saviour for life and salvation, to a stated reformation in practice, ^d 
obedience to all God’s commands, and this without any teaches or 
instructor, I mean, human; so the same plain instruction sufficiently 
served to the enlightening this savage creature and bringing himuo 
be such a Christian as I have known few equal to him in my life. \ 

As to all the disputes, wranglings, strife, and contention which has 
happened in the world about religion, whether niceties in doctrines, 
or schemes of church government, they were all perfectly useless to 
us; as for aught I can yet see, they have been to all the rest in the 
world. We had the sure guide to Heavra, viz., the Word of God; and 
we had, blessed be God, comfortable views of the Spirit of God teach- 
ing and instructing us by His Word, leading us into all truth, and mal^ 
ing us both willing and obedient to the instruction of His Word; and 
I cannot see the last use that the greatest knowledge of the disputed 
points in religion, which have made such confusions in the world, 
would have been to us, if we could have obtained it; but I must go on 
vnth the historical part of things, and take every part in its order. 

After Friday and 1 became more intimately acquainted, and that 
he could understand almost all I said to him and speak fluently, 
though in broken English, to me, I acquainted him with my own 
story, or at least so much of it as related to my coming into the place; 
how I had lived there, and how long. I let him into the mystery, for 
such it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how to 
shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully delighted with, 
and 1 made him a belt, with a frog hanging tojt, such as in England 
we wear hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him 
a hatchet, which was not only as good a weapon, in some cases, but 
much more useful upon other occasions. 

I described to him the country of Europe, and particularly Eng- 
land, which I came from; how we lived, how we worshiped God, 
how we behaved to one another; and how we traded in ships to all 
parts of the world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I had 

144 



Robinson Crusoe 

been on board of and showed him as near as I could the place where 
she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone. 

I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we es- 
caped, and which I could not stir with my whole strength then, but 
was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday 
stood musing a great while, and said nothing; I asked him what it 
was he studied upon; at last says he, “Me see such boat like come 
to place at my nation.” 

I did not understand him a good while; but at last, when I had ex- 
amined further into it, I understood by him that a boat, such as that 
had been, came on shore upon the country where he lived; that is, 
as he explained it, was driven thither by stress of weather. I pres- 
ently imagined that some European ship must have been cast away 
upon their coast, and the boat might get loose and drive ashore; but* 
was so dull that I never once thought of men making escape from a 
wreck thither, much less whence they might come; so I only inquired 
after a description of the boat. 

Friday described the boat to me well enou^; but brought me bet- 
ter to understand him when he added with some warmth, “We save 
the white mans from drown.” Then I presently asked him if there was 
any white mans, as he called them, in the boat. “Yes,” he said, 
“the boat full of white mans.” I asked him how many; he told upon 
his fingers seventeen. I asked him then what become of them; he told 
me, “They live, they dwell at my nation.” 

This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently imagined 
that these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast 
away in sight of my island, as I now call it; and who, after the ship 
was struck on the rock and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved 
themselves in their boat and were landed upon that wild shore 
among the savages. 

Upon this I inquired of him more critically what was become of 
them. He assured me they lived still there; that they had been there 
about four years; that the savages let them alone, and gave them 
victuals to live. I asked him how it came to pass they did not kill 
them and eat them. He said, “No, they make brother with them”; that 
is, as I understood him, a truce. And then he added, “They no eat 
mans but when make the war fight”; that is to say, they never eat any 
men but such as come to fight with them and are taken in battle. 

It was after this some considerable time that being on the top of 

145 



Daniel Defoe 

the hill, at the east side of the island from whence, as 1 have said, 
I had in a clear day discovered the main, or continent of America, 
Friday, the weather being very serene, looks very earnestly toward 
the mainland and, in a kind of surprise, falls a-jumping and dancing, 
and calls cait to me, for I was at some distance from him. I asked him 
what was the matter. “O joy!” says he, “O glad! Ibere see my 
cotmtry, there my nation!” 

I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his f^, 
and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a strange 
eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own country again; and 
this observation of mine put a great many thoughts into me, which 
made me at first not so easy about my new man Friday as I \ras 
before; and I made no doubt but that if Friday could get back to qis 
own nation again, he would not only forget all his religion but all ms 
obligation to me; and would be forward enough to give his country- 
men an account of me and come back, perhaps with a himdred or 
two of them, and make a feast upon me, at which he might be as 
merry as he used to be with those of his enemies, when Aey were 
taken in war. 

But I wronged the poor honest creature very much, for which ’I 
was very sorry afterward. However, as my jealousy increased, and 
held me some weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so 
familiar and kind to him as before; in which I was certainly in the 
wrong too, the honest grateful creature having no thougiht about it 
but what consisted with the best principles, boA as a religious Chris- 
tian and as a grateful friend, as appeared afterward to my full 
satisfaction. 

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was every day 
pumping him to see if he would discover any of die new thoughts 
which I suspected were in him; but I found everything he said was so 
hcmest and so innocent that I could find nothing to nourish my sus- 
picion; and in spite of all my uneasiness he made me at last en- 
tirely his own again, nor did he in the least perceive that 1 was un- 
easy, and therefore I could not suspect him of deceit. 

One day, walking up the same Ull, but the weather being hasy at 
sea so that we could not see the continent, I called to him, and stud, 
'Triday, do not you wish yourself in your own country, your own 
nation?” “Yes,” he said, he be mudi O glad to be at his own na- 
tkm. "What would you (k> there?” said I; “would you turn wild 
again, eat men’s flesh again, and be a savage as you were befrae?” 

146 



Robinson Crusoe 

He locked fall of concern, and shaking his head, said, **No, no; 
Friday tell fhem to live good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat 
corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk, no eat man again.” “Why then,” said I 
to him, “they will kill you.” He looked grave at that, and then said, 
“No, ^y no kill me, they willing love learn.” He meant by this, 
they would be willing to learn. He added, they learned much of the 
bearded mans that come in the boat Then I asked him if he would 
go back to them. He smiled at that and told me he could not swim 
so far. I told him I would make a canoe for him. He told me he 
would go, if I would go with him. “I go!” says I; “why, they will eat 
me if I come there.” “No, no,” says he, “me make they no eat you; 
me they much love you.” He meant he would tell them how 
I had killed his enemies and saved his life, and so he would make ^ 
thfftn love me; then he told me as well as he could how kind they 
were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he called them, 
who came on shore there in distress. 

From this time I confess I had a mind to venture over, and see 
if I could possibly join with these bearded men, who, I made no 
doubt, were Spaniards or Portuguese; not doubting but, if I could, 
we mi ght find some method to escape from thence, being upon the 
continent, and a good company together, better than I could from an 
isianH forty miles off the shore, and alone without help. So after 
some days I took Friday to work again, by way of discourse, md 
told him I would give him a boat to go back to his own nation; 
and accordingly I carried him to my frigate, which lay on the other 
side of the island, and having cleared it of water, for I always kq)t 
it sunk in the water, I brougjit it out, showed it him, and we both 
went into it. 

I found he was a most dexterous fellow at mana^ it, would 
make it go almost as swift and fast again as I could; so whmt he was 
in, I said to him, “Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation?” 
He k)ol«d very dull at my saying so, which it seems was becauw he 
dioug^t the boat too small to go so far. I told him then I had a Ingger; 
so the next day I went to the place where the first boat lay whidi I 
had made, but whkh I could not get into water. He said that was 
big enmtg^; but tibmi, as I had taken no care of it, and it had lain tro 
or three twenty years ihme, the sun had s^t and dried tt, 
that it was in a numner rottwi. Friday told me sod a boat would do 
very w^ and would carry “much mioug^ victual, drink, bread ; 
was Ms way talking. 


147 



Daniel Defoe 

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design of 
going over with him to the continent, that I told him we would go 
and make one as big as that, and he should go home in it. He 
answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked him 
what was the matter with him. He asked me again thus, “Why you 
angry mad with Friday? what me done?” I asked him what he 
meant; I told him I was not angry with him at all. “No angry! no 
angry!” says he, repeating the words several times, “Why send IFri- 
day home away to my nation?” “Why,” says I, “Friday, dd youlnot 
say you wished you were there?” “Yes, yes,” says he, “wish be both 
there, no wish Friday there, no master there.” In a word, he woUd 
not think of going there without me. “I go there, Friday!” says\ I, 
“what shall I do there?” He turned very quick upon me at th^: 
“You do great deal much good,” says he, “you teach wild mans be 
good sober tame mans; you tell them know God, pray God, and live 
new life.” “Alas! Friday,” says I, “thou knowest not what thou say- 
est; I am but an ignorant man myself.” “Yes, yes,” says he, “you 
teachee me good, you teachee them good.” “No, no, Friday,” says 
I, “you shall go without me; leave me here to live by myself, as; I 
did before.” He looked confused again at that word, and rutming to 
one of the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, 
comes and gives it me. “What must I do with this?” says I to him. 
“You take, kill Friday,” says he. “What must I kill you for?” said I 
again. He returns very quick, “What you send Friday away for? 
Take, kill Friday, no send Friday away.” This he spoke so earnestly 
that I saw tears stand in his eyes. In a word, I so plainly discov- 
ered the utmost affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him, 
that I told him then, and often after, that I would never send him 
away from me if he was willing to stay with me. 

Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a settled affection 
to me, and that nothing should part him from me, so I found all the 
foundation of his desire to go to his own country was laid in his 
ardent affection to the people and his hopes of my doing them 
good; a thing which, as I had no notion of myself, so I had not the 
least thouglit or intention or desire of undertaking it. But stiff I found 
a strong inclination to my attempting an escape as above, founded 
on the supposition gathered from the discourse, viz., that thne were 
seventeen bearded men there; and therefore, without any mote de- 
li^, I went to work with Friday to find out a great tree proper to 

148 



Robinson Crusoe 

fell, and make a large periagua or canoe to undertake the voy- 
age. .. . 

At last, Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found he knew much 
better than I what kind of wood was fittest for it. . . . Friday was 
for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make it for a 
boat. But I showed him how rather to cut it out with tools, which, 
after I had showed him how to use, he did very handily; and in 
about a month’s hard labor, we finished it and made it very 
handsome, especially when with our axes, which I showed him how 
to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of a 
boat; after this, however, it cost us near a fortnight’s time to get her 
along, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers into the water. 
But when she was in, she would have carried twen^ men with great 
ease. 

When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it amazed 
me to see with what dexterity and how swift my man Friday would 
manage her, turn her, and paddle her along; so I asked him if he 
would, and if we might venture over in her. “Yes,” he said, “he 
venture over in her very well, though great blow wind.” However, 
1 had a farther design that he knew nothing of, and that was to make 
a mast and saU, and to fit her with an anchor and cable. . . . 

I was near two months rigging and fitting my mast and sails. . . . 
After aU this was done 1 had my man Friday to teach as to what 
belonged to the navigation of my boat; . . . with a little use I 
made all these things familiar to him; and he became an expert sailor, 
except that as to the compass, I could make him understand very 
little of that. . . . 

I was now entered on the seven and twentieth year of my cap- 
tivity in this place. ... I kept the anniversary of my landing here 
with the same thankfulness to God for His mercies as at first; and 
if I had such cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more so 
now, having such additional testimonies of the care of Providence 
over me, and the great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily 
delivered; for I had an invincible impression upon my thoughts that 
my deliverance was at hand, and that I should not be another year 
in this place. . . . 

The rainy season was in the meantime upon us . . . and ffius we 
waited for the months of November and December, in which 1 de- 
signed to make my adventure. 


149 



/ Dip My Hands in Blood 


W HEN THE SETTLED seasQo began to come in, as the thou^t of 
my design returned with the fair weather, I was preparing 
daily for the voyage; and the first thing I did was to lay by a certain 
quantity of provisions, being the stores for our voyage; and intended, 
in a week or a fortni^t’s time, to open the dock, and launch out our 
boat. I was busy one morning upon something of this kind, wnp I 
called to Friday, and bid him go to the seashore, and see if he c6uld 
find a turtle, or tortoise, a thing which we generally got once a wmk, 
for the sake of the eggs as well as the fiesh. Friday had not b^n 
long gone when he came running back and flew over my outer wall, 
or fence, like one that felt not the ground or the steps he set his feet 
on; and before I had time to speak to him, he cries out to me, “O 
master! O master! O sorrow! O bad!” “What’s the matter, Friday?” 
says I. “O yonder, there,” says he, “one, two, three canoe! one, two, 
th^!” By his way of speaking, I concluded there were six; but on m> 
quiry I found it was but three. “Well, Friday,” says I, “do not be 
frighted”; so I heartened him up as well as I could. However, I saw 
the poor fellow was most terribly scared; for nothing ran in his head 
but that they were come to look for him and would cut him in pieces 
and eat him; and the poor fellow trembled so that I scarce knew what 
to do with him. I comforted him as well as I could, and told him I was 
in as much danger as he, and that they would eat me as well as him; 
“but,” says I, “Friday, we must resolve to fi^t them; can you figbt, 
Friday?” “Me shoot,” says he, “but there come many great number.” 
“No matter for that,” said 1 again, “our guns will fright them that we 
do iK>t kiH”; so I asked him, whether if I resolved to defend him, he 
would defend me and stand by me and do just as I bid him. He said, 
“Me (fie when yoti bid die, master”; so I went and fetched a good dram 
of rum and gave him; for I had been so good a husband of my rum, 
that I had a, great deal left. When he had drank it, I made him take 
the two fowling pieces, which we always carried, and load foem with 
lai^ swan-shot, as big as small pistol bullets; thoa I took four mus- 
kets, and loa(M them with two slugs and five small bullets each; 
and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each; I hung my 
^ceat sword, as usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet. 
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspective-g^ and 

150 



Robinson Crusoe 

went up to the side of the hill, to see s^at I could discover; and I 
found qukldy, by my glass, that there were one>and-twenty savages, 
three prisoners, and three canoes; and that thdr whole business 
seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon these three human 
bodies* • • • 

I came down again to Friday, and told him I was resolved to go 
down to them, and kill them all; and asked him if he would stand 
by me. He was now gotten over his fright, and his spirits being a 
little raised with the dram I had given him, he was very cheerful and 
told me, as before, he would die when I bid die. 

In this fit of fury, 1 took first and divided the arms which I had 
charged, as before, between us; I gave Friday one pistol to stick in 
his ^dle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol,, 
and the other three myself; and in this posture we marched out I 
took a small bottle of rum in my pocket and gave Friday a large 
bag with more powder and bullets; and as to orders, I charged him 
to keep close behind me, and not to stir or shoot or do anything tin 
I bid him and in the meantime not to speak a word. In this posture 
I fetched a compass to my rig^t hand of near a mile, as well to get 
over the creek, as to get into the wood; so fiiat I mi^t come within 
shot of them before I should be discovered, which I had seen by my 
glass, it was easy to do. 

While I was making this march, my former thoughts returning, I 
began to abate my resolution; I do not mean that I entertained any 
fear of their number; for as they were naked, unarmed wretches, 
’tis certain I was superior to them; nay, though I had been alone; but 
it occurred to my thoughts what call, what occasion, much less what 
necessity, I was in to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people 
who had neither done or intended me any wrong; who, as to me, 
were innoccmt and vdiose barbarous customs were their own disastn, 
being in them a token indeed of God’s having left them, with the 
other nations of fiud part of the w(»ld, to such stupidhy and to 
such inhuman courses, but did not call me to take up(m me to be a 
judgo of their acticms, much less an execudoneer of I& Justice; that 
whenever He though fit. He would take the cause into His own hamls 
and 1^ national vengeance punish them as a peo{^ for national 
crimes; but tiiat, in the meantime, it was ntme d my business; that h 
was true, Friday m^^t justify it, bttoause he was a dedared enemy and 
in a state oi war with those very particular pec^; and it was lawhil 
f(u him to attack tiiem; bid I could not say the same with respect to 

151 



Daniel Defoe 

me. These things were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all die 
way as I went that I resolved I would only go and place myself near 
them, that I might observe their barbarous feast and that I would act 
then as God should direct; but that unless something offered that 
was more a call to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with 
them. 

With this resolution I entered the wood, and, with all possible 
wariness and silence, Friday following 'close at my heels, I marched 
till I came to the skirt of the wood, on the side which was neitt to 
them; only that one comer of the wood lay between me and them; 
here I called sofdy to Friday, and showing him a great tree, which 
was just at the corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and 
bring me word if he would see there plainly what they were doii^; 
he did so and came immediately back to me and told me they might 
be plainly viewed there; that they were all about their fire, eating the 
flesh of one of their prisoners; and that another lay bound upon the 
sand, a little from them, which he said they would kill next; and 
which fired all the very soul within me, he told me it was not one of 
their nation but one of the bearded men, who he had told me of that 
came to their country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very 
naming the white bearded man, and going to the tree, I saw plainly 
by my glass a white man who lay upon the beach of the sea, with 
his hands and his feet tied with flags, or things like rushes, and that 
he was a European and had clothes on. . . . 

I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of the dreadful 
wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled together, and had 
just sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian and bring him, 
perhaps limb by limb, to their fire, and they were stooped down to 
imtie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday. “Now, Friday,” said 
I, “do as I bid thee.” Friday said he would. “Then, Friday,” says I, 
“do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing.” So I set down one of 
the muskets and the fowling piece upon the ^ound, and Friday did 
the like by his; and with the other musket I took my aim at the 
savages, bidding him do the like; then asking him if he was ready, 
he said, “Yes.” “Then fire at them,” said I; and the same moment 
I fired also. 

Friday took his aim so much better than I that on the side that 
he shot he killed two (ff them and wounded three more; and on my 
ride, 1 killed one and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, 
in a dreadful consternation; and all of tiiem, who were not hurt, 

152 



Robinson Crusoe 

j um ped up upon their feet, but did not immediately know which way 
to run or which way to look; for they knew not from whence their 
destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that, as I had 
bid him, he might observe what I did; so, as soon as the first shot 
was made, I threw down the piece, and took up the fowling piece, 
and Friday did the like; he sees me cock and present; he did the 
same again. “Are you ready, Friday?” said I. “Yes,” says he. “Let 
fiy, then,” says I, “in the name of God!” and with that I fired again 
am ong the amazed wretches, and so did Friday; and as our pieces 
were now loaden with what 1 called swan-shot, or smaU pistol bullets, 
we found only two drop, but so many were wounded that they ran 
about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and mis- 
erably wounded most of them; whereof three more fefi quickly after, . 
thou^ not quite dead. 

“Now, Friday,” says I, laying down the discharged pieces and tak- 
ing up the musket which was yet loaded; “follow me,” says I, which 
he did with a great deal of courage; upon which I rushed out of the 
wood and showed myself, and Friday close at my foot; as soon as I 
perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could and bade Friday 
do so too; and running as fast as I could, which, by the way, was 
not very fast, being loaden with arms as I was, I made directly to- 
ward the poor victim. . . . 

I pulled out my knife and cut the fiags that bound the poor victim, 
and, loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him up and asked him in the 
Portuguese tongue what he was. He answered in Latin, “Chris- 
tianus”; but was so weak and faint that he could scarce stand or 
speak; I took my bottle out of my pocket and gave it him, making 
signs that he should drink, which he did; and I gave him a piece of 
bread, which he ate; then I asked him what countryman he was. 
And he said “Espagniole”; and being a little recovered, let me know 
by all the signs he could possibly make how much he was in my 
debt for his deliverance. “Seignior,” said I, with as much Spanish as 
1 could make up, “we will talk afterward, but we must figiht now; if 
you have any strength left, take this pistol and sword and lay about 
you.” He took them very thankfully, and no sooner had he the arms 
in his hands, but as if they had put new vigor into him, he flew upon 
his murderers Hkg a fury and had cut two of them in pieces in an 
instant; for the truth is, as the whole was a surprise to them, so the 
poor creatures were so much frighted with the noise of our pieces 
that they fell down for mere amazement and fear and had no more 

153 



Daniel Defoe 

power to attempt their own escape than their flesh had to resist our 

^ot. . . . 

I kq>t my piece in my hand still, without firing, being willing to 
keep my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my pistol 
and sword; so I called to Friday and bade him run up to ^ tree 
from whence we first fired and fetch the arms which lay there that 
had been discharged, which he did with great swiftness; and then 
giving him my musket, I sat down mysdf to load all the rest a^ain, 
and bade them come to me when they wanted. While I was lo^^g 
these pieces, there , happened a fierce engagement between the Span- 
iard and one of the savages, who made at him with one of troir 
great wooden swords, the same weapon that was to have killed him 
before, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and 
as brave as could be imagined, though weak, had fought this Indian 
a good while and had cut him two great wounds on his head; but 
the savage being a stout lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown 
him down, being faint, and was wring^g my sword out of his hand, 
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting the sword, 
drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the body 
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running to help him, 
could come near him. 

Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying wretches 
with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and with that he dis- 
patched those three, who, as I said before, were wounded at first 
and fallen, and all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard 
coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling pieces, with 
which he pursued two of the savages, and wounded them both; but 
as he was not able to run, they both got from him into the wood, 
where Friday pursued them and kiiled one of them; but the other 
was too nimble for him, and though he was wounded, yet had 
plunged himself into the sea and swam with all his might off to those 
two who were left in the canoe; whidh three in the canoe, with one 
wotmded, who we know not whether he di^ or no, were all ffiat 
escaped our hands of one-and-twenty. . . . 

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out (ff.gundiot; 
and though Friday made two or three shots at them, I did not find 
that he hit any at them. Friday would fain have had me take one of 
thdr canoes and pursue them; and indeed I was very anxious about 
escape, test, carrying the news home to thdr pec^de, they should 
come back perhaps with two or ffuee hundred of their canoes and 

154 



Robinson Crusoe 

devour us.by’mere multitude; so I consented to pursue them by sea, 
and running to one of their canoes, I jumped in and bade Friday 
follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to find an- 
other poor creature lie there alive, bound hand and foot, as the Span- 
iard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not knowing 
what the matter was; for he had not been able to look up over the 
side of the boat, he was tied so hard, neck and heels, and had been 
tied so long that he had really but little life in him. 

I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, which they had 
bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he could not 
stand or speak, but groaned most piteously, believing, it seems, still 
that he was only unbound in order to be killed. 

When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him and tell him 
of his deliverance, and pulling out my bottle, made him ^ve the poor 
wretch a dram, which, with the news of his being delivered, revived 
him, and he sat up in the boat; but when Friday came to hear him 
speak, and look in his face, it would have moved any one to tears, 
to have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, 
cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung, then cried 
again, wrung his hands, beat his own face and head, and then sung 
and jumped about again, like a distracted creature. It was a good 
while before I could make him speak to me, or tell me what was 
the matter; but when he came a little to himself he told me that it 
was his father. 

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what 
ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor savagp, at the 
sight of his father and of his being delivered from death; nor indeed 
can I describe half the extravagances ci his affection after this; for 
he went into the boat and out of the boat a great many times. When 
he went into him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and 
hold his father’s head dose to his bosom, half an hour together, to 
nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed 
and stiff with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his 
hands; and I, perceiving what the case was, gave him some rum out 
of my bottle to rub them with, which did them a ^%at deal of good. 

This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other 
savages, who were now gottaa almost out of si^t; and it was hapj^ 
for us ftat we did not; for it blew so hard within two hours after, and 
before they could be gottoi a quarter of ^ir way, mid continued 
blowing so hard aU and ffiat from the northwest, which was 

155 



Daniel Defoe 

against them, that I could not suppose their boat could live, or that 
they ever reached to their own coast. 

But to return to Friday; he was so busy about his father that I 
could not find in my heart to take him off for some time. But after 
I thought he could leave him a little, I called him to me, and he 
came jumping and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme; then 
I asked him if he had given his father any bread. He shook his head 
and said, “None; ugly dog eat all upi si»lf.” So I gave him a cake of 
bread out of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave pm a 
dram for himself, but he would not taste it but carried it m his 
father. I had in my pocket also two or three bunches of my rmsins, 
so 1 gave him a handful of them for his father. He had no scpner 
given his father these raisins but 1 saw him come out of the poat 
and run away, as if he had been bewitched, he ran at such a rate; 
for he was the swiftest fellow of his foot that ever I saw; I say, he 
ran at such a rate that he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant; 
and though I called, and hallooed, too, after him, it was all one, 
away he went, and in a quarter of an hour I saw him come back 
again, though not so fast as he went; and as he came nearer, I fopnd 
his pace was slacker because he had something in his hand. 

^en he came up to me, I found he had been quite home for an 
earthen jug or pot to bring his father some fresh water, and that he 
had got two more cakes or loaves of bread. The bread he gave me, 
but Ae water he carried to his father. However, as I was very thirsty 
too, I took a little sup of it. This water revived his father more than 
all the rum or spirits I had given him, for he was just fainting with 
thirst. 

When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there was 
any water left; he said “Yes”; and I bade him give it to the poor 
Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his father; and I sent 
one of the cakes that Friday brought to the Spaniard too, who was 
indeed very weak, and was reposing himself upon a green place 
under the shade of a tree; and whose limbs "were also very stiff, and 
very much swelled with the rude bandaga he had been tied with. 
When I saw that, upon Friday’s coming to him with the water, he 
sat up and drank, and took the bread and began to eat, T went to 
him and gave him a handful of raisins; he looked up in my face with 
all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear in any 
countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted 
himself m the figbt that he could not stand up upon his feet; he tried 

156 



Robinson Crusoe 

to do it two or three times, but was really not able, his ankles were 
so swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused 
Friday to rub his ankles and bathe them with rum, as he had done 
his father’s. 

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes or 
perhaps less, all the while he was here, turned his head about to see 
if his father was in the same place and posture as he left him sitting; 
and at last he found he was not to be seen; at which he started up 
and without speaking a word flew with that swiftness to him, that 
one could scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he went. 
But when he came, he only found he had laid himself down to ease 
his limbs; so Friday came back to me pesently, and I then spoke 
to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up if he could and lead him . 
to the boat, and then he should carry him to our dwelling, where I 
would take care of him. But Friday, a lusty strong fellow, took the 
Spaniard quite up upon his back and carried him away to the boat 
and set him down softly upon the side, or gunnel, of the canoe, with 
his feet in the inside of it, and then lifted him quite in and set him 
close to his father, and presently stepping out again, launched the 
boat off, and paddled it along Ae shore faster than I could walk, 
though the wind blew pretty hard too; so he brought them both safe 
into our creek; and leaving them in the boat, runs away to fetch the 
other canoe. As he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither 
he went; he told me, “Go fetch more boat”; so away he went like 
the wind; for sure never man or horse ran like him, and he had the 
other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so he 
wafted me over, and then went to help our new guests out of the 
boat, which he did; but they were neither of them able to walk; so 
that poor Friday knew not what to do. 

To remedy tMs, I went to work in my thought, and calling to Fri- 
day to bid them sit down on the bank while he came to me, I soon 
made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I car- 
ried them up both together upon it between us. But when we got 
them to the outside of our waO or fortification, we were at a worse 
loss than before; for it was impossible to get ffiem over, and I was 
resolved not to break it down. So I set to work again; and Friday 
and I, in about two hours’ time, made a very handsome tent, covered, 
with old sails, and above that with boughs of trees, bdng in the q>ace 
without our outward fence, and between that and the grove of young 
Wood whidi I had planted. And here we made them two of 

157 



Daniel Defoe 

such flihigs as I had, viz., of good rice-straw, widi blankets laid upon 
it to lie on, and anodier to cover them, on each bed. 

My Island Was Now Peopled 

M y island was now peopled, and I thou^t myself very rich in 
subjects; and it was a meity* reflection, which I frMuendy 
made, how like a king I looked. First of all, the whole country was 
my own mere property, so that I had an undoubted right of domin- 
ion. Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected. I was amolute 
lord and lawgiver; they all owed their lives to me, and were\ ready 
to lay down their lives, if there had been occasion of it, for me. It 
was remarkable, too, we had but three subjects, and they were of 
three different reli^ons. My man Friday was a Protestant, his father 
was a Pagan and a cannibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist. How- 
ever, I allowed liberty of conscience throughout my dominions. But 
this is by the way. 

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners^ and 
given them shelter and a place to rest them upon, I began to think 
of making some provision for them. And the first thing I did, I or- 
dered Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out 
of my particular flock, to be killed; when I cut off the hinder quarter, 
and chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and 
stewing, and made them a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and 
broth, having put some barley and rice also into the broth; and as I 
cooked it without doors, for I made no fire within my inner wall, so 
I carried it aU into the new tent; and having set a table there for 
them, I sat down and ate my own dinner also with them, and, as 
well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them; Friday being 
my interpreter, especially to his father, and indeed to the Spaniard 
too; for the Spaniard spoke the language -of the savages pretty well. 

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take 
one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other firearms, 
whidi fmr want of time we had left upon the place of battle; and the 
next day I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the sav- 
ages, which lay open to the sun, and would {Hresoitly be offennve; 
and I also ordered him to bury the Imrrid remains of thtir barba- 
rous feast, whidi I knew were pretty much, and which I could not 
think oi doing mysdf; nay, I could not bear to see them, if 1 went 

158 



Robinson Crusoe 

that way. AU of which he punctually performed, and defaced the 
very appearance of the savages being there, so that when I went 
again I could scarce know where it was, otherwise than by the cor- 
ner of the wood pointing to the place. 

I then began to enter into a little conversaticm with my two new 
subjects; and first I set Friday to inquire of his father what he thought 
of ^ escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether we might 
expect a return of them with a power too great for us to resist. His 
first opinion was that the savages in the boat never could live out the 
storm which blew that night they went off but must of necessity be 
drowned or driven south to those other shores, where they were as 
sure to be devoured as they were to be drowned if they were cast 
away; but as to what they would do if they came safe on shore, he 
said he knew not; but it was his opinion that they were so dreadfully 
frighted with the maimer of their being attacked, the noise and the 
fire, that he believed they would tell their people they were all killed 
by thunder and lightning, not by the hand of man, and that the two 
which appeared, viz., Friday and me, were two heavenly spirits or 
furies, come down to destroy them, and not men with weapons. This 
he said he knew, because he heard them all cry out so in their lan- 
guage to one another, for it was Impossible to ^em to conceive that 
a man could dart fire and speak thunder and kill at a distance with- 
out lifting up the hand, as was done now. And this old savage was in 
the right; for, as I understood since by other hands, the savages never 
attempted to go over to the island afterward; they were so terrified 
with the accounts given by those four men (for it seems they did 
escape the sea) that they believed whoever went to that ^chanted 
island would be destroyed with fire from the gods. 

This, however, I knew not, and therefore was under continual ap- 
prehensions for a good while and kept always upon my guard, me 
and all my army; for as we were now four of us, I would have ven- 
tured upon a hundred of them fairly in the open field at any time. 

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear of 
their coming wore (^, and I began to take my former thoug^its of a 
voyage to the main into consideration; being likewise assured by Fri- 
day’s fadier that I mig)it depend upon good usage from their naticm 
on his account, if I would go. 

But my dum^ts were a little suspmufed when I had a serious 
discourse wiUt the l^>aniard and when I understood that there were 
sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who, having been 

159 



Daniel Defoe 

cast away and made their escape to that side, lived there at peace 
indeed with the savages but were very sore put to it for necessaries, 
and indeed for life. I asked him all the particulais of their voyage 
and found they were a Spanish ship bound from the Rio de la Plata 
to the Havana, being directed to leave their loading there, which was 
chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back what European goods they 
could meet with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen on 
board, who they took out of another wreck; that five of the^ own 
men were drowned when the first ship was lost, and that these es- 
caped, through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived, almost 
starved, on the cannibal coast, where they expected to have! been 
devoured every moment. \ 

He told me they had some arms with them, but they were 'per- 
fectly useless, for that they had neither powder or ball, the washing 
of the sea having spoiled all their powder but a little, which they 
used at their first landing to provide themselves some food. 

I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and if 
they had formed no design of making any escape. He said they had 
many consultations about it, but that having neither vessel, or tools 
to build one, or provisions of any kind, their councils always ended 
in tears and despair. 

I asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal from 
me, which might tend toward an escape; and whether, if they were 
all here, it might not be done. I told him with freedom, 1 feared 
mostly their treachery and ill usage of me, if I put my life in their 
hands; for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man; 
nor did men always square their dealings by the obligations they had 
received so much as they did by the advantages they expected. I told 
him it would be very hard that 1 should be the instrument of their 
deliverance and that they should afterward make me their prisoner 
in New Spain, where an Englishman was certain to be made a sacri- 
fice, what necessity or what accident soever brought him thither. And 
diat I had rather be delivered up to the savages and be devoured 
alive than fall into the merciless claws of the priests and be carried 
into the Inquisition. I added that otherwise I was persuaded, if they 
were all here, we might, with so many hands, buUd a bark large 
enough to carry us all away, either to the Brazils southward, or to 
the islands or Spanish coast northward. But that if in reqmtal they 
should, when 1 had put weapons into their hands, carry me by force 

160 



Robinson Crusoe 

among their own people, I might be ill used for my kindness to them 
and make my case worse than it was before, 

He answered with a great deal of candor and ingenuity that their 
condition was so miserable and they were so sensible of it that he 
believed they would abhor the thought of using any man unkindly 
that should contribute to their deliverance; and that, if I pleased, he 
would go to them with the old man and discourse with them about 
it, and return again and bring me their answer. That he would make 
conditions with them upon their solemn oath, that they should be 
absolutely under my leading, as their commander and captain; and 
that they should swear upon the Holy Sacraments and the Gospel to 
be true to me and to go to such Christian cormtry as that I should 
agree to, and no other; and to be directed wholly and absolutely by 
my orders, till they were landed safely in such country as I intended; 
and that he would bring a contract from them, under their hands, 
for that purpose. 

Then he told me he would first swear to me himself that he would 
never stir from me as long as he lived, till I gave him orders; and 
that he would take my side to the last drop of his blood, if there 
should happen the least breach of faith among his countrymen. 

He told me they were all of them very civil honest men, and they 
were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither weapons 
or clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion of the sav- 
ages; out of all hopes of ever returning to their own country; and 
that he was sure, ^ I would undertake their relief, they woidd live 
and die by me. 

Upon Aese assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if 
possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them 
to treat. But whCT we had gotten all things in a readiness to go, the 
Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so much prudence 
in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other- hand, that I 
could not but be very well satisfied in it; and, by his advice, put off 
the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year. The case 
was thus: 

He had been udth us now about a month, during which time I had 
let him see in what manner I had provided, with the assistance of 
Providence, for my support; and he saw evidently what stock of co^i 
and rice 1 had laid up; which, as it was more ffian sufficient for my- 
self, so it was not sufiScient, at least without good husbandry, for my 

161 



Daniel Defoe 

famity, now it was increased to number four. But much less would 
it be sufficimit, if his countrymen, who were, as he said, fourteen stiU 
alive, should come over. And least of all would it be sufficient to 
victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a voyage to any of the 
C3iristian colonies of America. So he told me he thought it would be 
more advisable to let him and the two others dig and cultivate some 
more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow; and that weishould 
wait another harvest, that we might have a supply of com Ifor his 
countrymen when they should come; for want might be a temptation 
to them to disagree, or not to think themselves delivered, otwrwise 
than out of one difficulty into another. “You know,” says hel “the 
Qiildren of Israel, though they rejoiced at first for their being de- 
livered out of.JEgypt, yet rebelled even against God Himself that de- 
livered them, when they came to want bread in the wilderness.” 

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I 
oould not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I was 
satisfied with his fidelity. So we fell to digging, all four of us, as well 
as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted; and in ajbout 
a month’s time, by the end of which it was seed time, we had gotten 
as much land cur^ and trimmed up as we sowed twenty-two bushels 
of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice, which was, in short, aU the seed 
we had to spare; nor indeed did we leave ourselves barley sufficient 
for our own food for the six months that we had to expect our crop, 
that is to say, reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for sow- 
ing; for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in the 
country. 

Having now socie^ enough, and our number being sufficient to 
put us out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless their num- 
ber had been very great, we went freely all over the island, wherever 
we found occasion; and as here we had our escape or deliverance 
upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me, to have the 
means of it out of mine; to this purpose, t marked out several trees 
which I thou^t fit for our work, and I set Friday and his father to 
cutting them down; and then 1 caused the Spaniard, to whom I im- 
parted my thou^t on that affair, to oversee and direct their work. I 
showed them ndth what indefatigable pains I had hewed a large tree 
into sin^ planks, and I caused them to do the lil», till they had 
made about a dozen large planks of good oak, near two foot teoad, 
1]ur^<fiye foot long, and from two inch(» to four inches thick. What 
podi^ous labor it took up, anyone may imagine. 

162 



Robinson Crusoe 

At the same time I contrived to increase my little flock of tame 
goats as much as I could; and to this purpose I made Friday and 
the Spaniard go out one day, and myself with Friday the next day, 
for we took our turns, and by this means we got above twenty young 
kids to breed up with the rest; for whenever we shot the Ham, we 
saved the kids, and added them to our flock. But above all, the sea- 
son for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such a prodi^ous quan- 
tity to be hung up in the sun, that I believe, had we been at Alicante, 
where the raisins of the sun are cured, we could have filled sixty or 
eighty barrels; and these with our bread were a great part of our food, 
and very good living too, I assure you; for it is an exceeding nourish- 
ing food. 

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it was not the 
most plentiful increase 1 had seen in the island, but, however, it was 
enough to answer our end; for from our twenty-two bushels of barley 
we brought in and thrashed out above 220 bushels; and the like in 
proportion of the rice, which was store enough for our food to the 
next harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore 
with me; or if we had been ready for a voyage, it would very plenti- 
fully have victualed our ship, to have carried us to any part of the 
world, that is to say, of America. . . . 

And now having a full supply of food for all the guests I expected, 
I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to see what he 
could do with those he had left behind him there. I gave him a strict 
charge in writing not to bring any man with him who would not first 
swear in the presence of himself and of the old savage that he would 
no way injure, fight with, or attack the person he should find in the 
island, who was so kind to send for them in order to their deliver- 
ance; but that they would stand by and defend him against all such 
attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely under and sub- 
jected to his commands; and that this should be put iq writing and 
signed with their hands. How we were to have this done, when I 
knew they had neither pen or ink, that indeed was a question which 
we never asked. . . . 

They went away with a fair gale on the day that the moon was at 
full; by my account, in the month of October; but as for an exa^ 
reckoning of days, ^er I had once lost it, I could never recover it 
agun; nor had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to 
be sure that I was ri^t, thou^ as it proved, when I afterward ex- 
amined my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of years. 

163 



An English Ship 


I T WAS NO LESS than eight days I had waited for them, when a 
' strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has 
not perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch 
one morning, when my man Friday 'came running in to nm and 
called aloud, “Master, master, they are come, they are corner’. . . 

I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye plainly dis- 
covered a ship lying at an anchor at about two leagues and a half’s 
distance from me, south-southeast, but not above a league and a\half 
from the shore. By my observation it appeared plainly to be an Eng- 
lish ship, and its boat appeared to be an English longboat. 

I cannot express the confusion I was in, though the joy of seeing 
a ship, and one who I had reason to believe was manned by my own 
countrymen, and consequently friends, was such as I cannot de- 
scribe; but yet I had some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot 
tell from whence they came, bidding me keep upon my guard.' In 
the first place, it occurred to me to consider what business an Eng- 
lish ship could have in that part of the world, since it was not the 
way to or from any part of the world where the English had any 
traffic; and I knew there had been no storms to drive them in there, 
as in distress; and that if they were English really, it was most prob- 
able that they were here upon no good design; and that I had better 
continue as 1 was than fiffi into the hands of thieves and murder- 
ers. .. . 

I had not kept myself long in this posture but I saw the boat 
draw near the shore. . . . When they were on shore, I was fully 
satisfied that they were Englishmen. . . . There were in all eleven 
men, whereof t^e of them, 1 found, were unarmed, and, as I 
thouglht, bound; and when the first four or five of them were jumped 
on s^re, they took those three out of the boat as prisoners. One of 
the three I could perceive using the most passionate gestures of en- 
treaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind of extravagance; the 
other two I could perceive lifted up their hmids sometimes, and ap- 
peared concerned indeed, but not to such a degree as the first 
I was perfectly confounded at the sight and kiww not what the 
meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me in Eng|lish as well 
as he could, “O master! you see English mans eat prisoner as well 

164 



Robinson Crusoe 

as savage mans.” “Why,” says I, “Friday, do you think they are 
a-going to eat them then?” “Yes,” says Friday, “they will eat them.” 
“No, no,” says I, “Friday, I am afraid they will murder them indeed, 
but you may be sure they will not eat them.”. . . 

After I had observed the outrageous usage of the three men by 
the insolent seamen, 1 observed the fellows nm scattering about the 
lanH, as if they wanted to see the country. I observed that the three 
other men had liberty to go also where they pleased; but they sat 
down all three upon the ground, very pensive, and looked like men 
in despair. . . . 

It was just at the top of high water when these people came on 
shore, and while partly they stood parleying with the prisoners they 
brought, and pardy while they rambled about to see what kind of a 
place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent, 
and the water was ebbed considerably away, leaving their boat 
aground. 

They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found afterward, 
having drunk a little too much brandy, fell asleep; however, one of 
them waking sooner than the other, and finding the boat too fast 
aground for him to stir it, hallooed for the rest, who were straggling 
about, upon which they all soon came to the boat; but it was past 
all their strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy, and the 
shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost like a quicksand. 

In this condition, like true seamen, who are perhaps the least of 
all mankind given to forethought, they gave it over, and away they 
strolled about the country again; and I heard one of them say aloud 
to another, calling them off from the boat, “Why, let her alone. Jack, 
can’t ye? she will float next tide”; by which I was fully confirmed 
in the main inquiry of what countrymen they were. . . . 

In the meantime I fitted myself up for a battle, as before; though 
with more caution, knowing I had to do with another kind of enemy 
than I had at first. I ordered Friday also, who I had made an ex- 
cellent marksman with his gun, to load himself with amis. . . . 

It was my design not to have made any attempt till it was dark. 
But about two o’dock being the heat of the day, I found that, in 
short, they were aU gone straggling into die woods and, as I thought, 
were inirf down to deep. TTie three poor distressed men, too anxious 
for their eowdifion to get any sleep, were, however, set down under 
the riielter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me, 
and, as I thought, out of sight of any of the rest. 


165 



Daniel Defoe 

Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them and team some- 
thing of their condition. Immediately I marched in the figure as 
above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable 
for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a specter-like figure 
as I (fid. 

I came as near them uncfiscovered as I could, and then before any 
of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, “What see ye, 
gentlemen?” ( 

They started up at the noise, but were ten times more confounded 
when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that I made. They made 
no answer at all, but I thought I perceived them just going w fly 
from me, when I spoke to them in English: “Gentlemen,” sa^d I, 
“do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may have a friend near you, 
when you did not expect it.” “He must be sent directly from Heaven 
then,” said one of them very gravely to me, and pulling off his hat 
at the same time to me, “for oiu* condition is past the help of man.” 
“All help is from Heaven, sir,” said I. “But can you put a stranger 
in the way how to help you, for you seem to me to be in some ^at 
distress? I saw you when you landed, and when you seemed to niake 
applications to the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift 
up his sword to kill you.” 

The poor man, with tears nmning down his face, and trembling, 
looking like one astonished, returned, “Am I talking to God, or man? 
Is it a real man, or an angel?” “Be in no fear about that, sir,” said I, 
“if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come better 
clothed, and armed after another manner than you see me in; pray 
lay aside your fears; I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to 
assist you, you see; I have one servant only; we have arms and am- 
munition; tell us freely, can we serve you? What is your case?” 

“Our case,” said he, “sir, is too long to tell you, while our murder- 
ers are so near; but in short, sir, I was commander of that ship; my 
men have mutinied against me, they have been hardly prevailed on 
not to murder me, and at last have set me on shore in this desolate 
place, with these two men with me, one my mate, the other a pas- 
senger, where we expected to peridi, believing thf place to be un- 
inhabited, and know not yet what to think (ff it.” 

“Where are those brutes, your enemies?” said I. “Do ytm know 
wh^ they are gone?” “There they lie, sir,” said he, pointing to a 
thicket of trees; “my heart trembles for fear ffiey have seen us and 
beard you speak; if they have, th^ will certainly murder us all.” 

166 



Robinson Crusoe 

“Have they any firearms?” said I. He answered they had only two 
pieces, and one which they left in the boat. “Well then,” said I, “leave 
the rest to me; I see they are all asleep; it is an easy thing to kill them 
all; but shall we rather take them prisoners?” He told me there were 
two desperate villains among them that it was scarce safe to show 
any mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all the rest 
would return to their duty. I asked him which they were. He told 
me he could not at that distance describe them, but he would obey 
my orders in anything I would direct. “Well,” says I, “let us retreat 
out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve 
further”; so they willingly went back with me, till the woods covered 
us from them. 

“Look you, sir,” said I, “if I venture upon your deliverance, are 
you willing to make two conditions with me?” He anticipated my 
proposals by telling me that both he and the ship, if recovered, should 
be wholly ^ected and commanded by me in everything; and* if the 
ship was not recovered, he would live and die with me in what part 
of the worid soever I would send him; and the two other men said 
the same. 

“Well,” says I, “my conditions are but two. 1. That while you stay 
on this island with me, you will not pretend to any authority here; 
and if I put arms into your hands, you will upon ^ occasions give 
them up to me and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island, 
and in the meantime, be governed by my orders. 2. That if the ship 
is or may be recovered, you will cany me and my man to England, 
passage free.” 

He gave me all the assurances that the invention and faith of man 
could devise that he would comply with these most reasonable de- 
mands and besides would owe his Me to me and acknowledge it upon 
all occasions as long as he lived. 

“Wen then,” said I, “here are three muskets for you, with powder 
and baU; teU me next what you think is proper to be done.” He 
showed aU the testimony of his gratitude that he was able, but of- 
fered to be whotty guided by me. 1 told him I thought it was hard 
venturing anything; but the best method I could think of was to fire 
upon them at emee, as they lay; and if any was not IdUed at the first 
voUey, and ^exed to submit, we might save them, and so put it 
whoUy upon God’s Providence to direct the shot. 

He said very modestly that he was loath to kiU thmn, if he could 
help ^ but that fihose two were inconi^ble villains and -had bewi 

167 



Daniel Defoe 

the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped, we 
should be undone still; for they would go on board and bring the 
whole ship’s company, and destroy us all. “Well then,” says I, “neces- 
sity legitimates my advice; for it is the only way to save our lives.” 
However, seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, I told him they 
should go themselves and manage as they found convenient. 

In the middle of this discourse we -heard some of them dwake, 
and soon after, we saw two of them on their feet. I asked nim if 
either of them were of the men who he had said were the heads of 
the mutiny. He said, “No.” “Well then,” said I, “you may letlthem 
escape; and Providence seems to have wakened them on purpore to 
save themselves. Now,” says I, “if the rest escape you, it is your 
fault.” 

Animated with this, he took the musket I had given him in his 
hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with 
each man a piece in his hand. The two men who were with him, 
going first, made some noise, at which one of the seamen, who was 
awake turned about, and seeing them coming cried out to the rest; 
but it was too late then, for the moment he cried out they fired; I 
mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece. They 
had so well aimed their shot at the men they knew that one of them 
was killed on the spot, and the other very much wounded; but not 
being dead, he started up upon his feet, and called eagerly for help 
to the other; but the captain, stepping to him, told him ’twas too late 
to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his villainy, and 
with that word knocked him down with the stock of his musket, so 
that he never spoke more. There were three more in the company, 
and one of them was also slightly wounded. By this time I was come, 
and when they saw their danger and that it was in vain to resist, 
they begged for mercy. The captain told them he would spare their 
lives, if Aey would give him any assurance of their abhorrence of 
the treachery they had been guilty of and would swear to be faithful 
to him in recovering the ship and afterward in carrying her back to 
Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him all the protesta- 
tk>ns of their sincerity that could be desired, and he was willing to 
believe them, and spare their lives, which 1 was not against, only I 
obliged him to keep them bound hand and foot while they were upon 
the island. 

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain’s mate to the 
boat, with orders to secure her and bring away the oars and sail. 

168 



Robinson Crusoe 

which they did; and by and by, three strag^g men, that were (hap- 
pily for them) parted from the rest, came back upon hearing the 
guns fired, and seeing their captain, who before was their prisoner, 
now their conqueror, they submitted to be bound also; and so our 
victory was complete. 

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one 
another’s circumstances. I began first, and told him my whole his- 
tory, which he heard with an attention even to amazement; and 
particularly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished with 
provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a whole col- 
lection of wonders, it affected him deeply; but when he reflected 
from thence upon himself and how I seemed to have been preserved 
there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and 
he could not speak a word more. 

After this communication was at an end, I carried him and his two 
men into my apartment, leading them in just where I came out, viz., 
at the top of the house, where I refreshed them with such provisions 
as I had, and showed them all the contrivances I had made during 
my long, long inhabiting that place. 

Our Business Was to Recover the Ship 

A LL I SHOWED THEM, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing; 
X\ but above all, the captain admired my fortification and how per- 
fectly I had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which having 
been now planted near twenty years, and the trees growing much 
faster than in England, was become a little wood, and so thick, that 
it was impassable in any part of it, but at that one side, where I had 
reserved my little winding passage into it. I told him. this was my 
casfie and my residence, but that I had a seat in the country, as most 
princes have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I would 
show him that too another time; but at present our business was to 
consider how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that; but 
told me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take; for 
that thm« were still six-and-twenty hands on board, who, having 
entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited 
their lives to the law, would be hardened in it now by desperatitm; 
and would carry it on, knowing that if they were reduced, they shoidd 
be brought to the gaOows as soon as tiiey came to England or to any 

169 



Daniel Defoe 

of tho English colonies; and that therefore there would be no attack- 
ing them with so small a number as we were. 

I mused for some time upon what he said, and found it was a very 
rational condusion, and that therefore something was to be resolved 
on very speedily, as well to draw the men on board into some snare 
for their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and destroying 
us; upon this it presently occurred tor me that in a little wh^e the 
ship’s crew, wondering what was become of their comrades md of 
the boat, would certainly come on shore in their other boat ta seek 
for them, and that then perhaps they might come armed and be too 
strong for us; this he allowed was rational. \ 

Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to stave' the 
boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might not cany her 
off; and taking everything out of her, leave her so far useless as not 
to be fit to swim; accordingly we went on board, took the arms which 
were left on board out of her and whatever else we found there, 
which was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit 
cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar in a piecej of 
canvas; the sugar was five or six pounds; all which was very wel- 
come to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had had 
none left for many years. . . . 

While we were thus preparing our designs and had first by main 
strength heaved the boat up upon the beach so high that die tide 
would not float her off at high-water mark, and besides had broke 
a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped and sat down 
musing what we should do, we heard the ship fire a gun and saw 
her make a waft with her ancient as a signal for the boat to come on 
board; but no boat stirred; and they fired several times, making other 
signals for the boat. 

At last, when all their signals and firings proved fruitless, and they 
found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of my glasses, 
hoist another boat out, and row toward the shore; and we found, as 
they approached, that there were no less than ten men in her, and 
that they had firearms with them. 

As the ship lay almost two leagues from die ^cnre, we . . . had a 
ftffl view of them and the captain knew the perscms and duuucters 
(ff all the men in the boat, of whom he. said th^ there were three 
veary htmest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this consjuracy 
by fibe rest, being ovrapowered and frig^ited 

We set vigorously to our business. We had, uprni the first {q>pea]> 

170 



Robinson Crusoe 

ance of the boat’s coming from the ship, considered of separating oar 
prisoners, and had indeed secured them effectually. 

Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured than ordinary, 
I sent with Friday and one of the three delivered men to my cave. . . . 

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept pin- 
ioned indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them; but 
the other two were taken into my service upon their captain’s recom- 
mendation and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with us; 
so with them and the three honest men we were seven men, well 
armed; and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well enou^ 
with the ten that were a-coming, considering that the captain had 
said there were three or four honest men among them also. 

As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay, they 
ran their boat into the beach, and came all on shore, haulin g the 
boat up after them, which I was glad to see; for I was afraid they 
would rather have left the boat at an anchor, some distance from the 
shore, with some hands in her, to guard her; and so we should not 
be able to seize the boat. 

Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to their other 
boat; and it was easy to see that they were under a great surprise 
to find her stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a great hole 
in her bottom. 

After they had mused a while upon this, they set up two or three 
great shouts, hallooing with all their might, to try if they could make 
their companions hear; but all was to no purpose. Then they came 
all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their small arms, which in- 
deed we heard, and the echoes made the woods ring; but it was all 
one; those in the cave we were sure could not hear, and those in our 
keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no answer 
to them. 

They were so astonished at the surprise of this that, as they told 
us afterward, they resolved to go all on board again, to their ship, 
and let them know that the men were aQ murdered and the long- 
boat staved; accordingly, they immediately launched their boat a^iin, 
and got all of them on board. 

The captain was terribly amazed and even confounded at tht$, 
believmg ffiey would go on board the ship again and set sail, ^ving 
their comrades for lost, and so he should still lose the ^p, which he 
was in hopes we should have recovered; but he was quicUy.as mudi 
frighted the odier way. 


171 



Daniel Defoe 

They had not been long put off with the boat, but we perceived 
them all coming on shore again; but with this new measure in their 
conduct, which it seems they consulted together upon, viz., to leave 
three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into 
the country to look for their fellows. 

This was a great disappointment to us; for now we were at a loss 
what to do; for our seizing those seven men on shore would be no 
advantage to us, if we let the boat escape; because they womd then 
row away to the ship, and then the rest of them would be sure to 
weigh and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would be lo». 

However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what the\issue 
of things might present; the seven men came on shore, and the Wee 
who remained in the boat put her off to a good distance from the 
shore, and came to an ancWr to wait for them; so that it was im- 
possible for us to come at them in the boat. 

Those that came on shore kept close together, marching toward 
the top of the little hill under which my habitation lay; and we could 
see them plainly, though they coidd not perceive us. We would have 
been very glad had they come nearer to us, so that we might have 
fired at them, or had they gone farther off, that we might have come 
abroad. . . . 

We waited a great while, though very impatient for their remov- 
ing; and were very uneasy, when, after long consultations, we saw 
them start all up and march down toward the sea. . . . 

I presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and 
which answered my end to a tittle. 

I ordered Friday and the captain’s mate to go over the little creek 
westward, toward the place where the savages came on shore when 
Friday was rescued; and as soon as they came to a little rising ground, 
at about half a mile distance, I bade them halloo as loud as they 
could and wait till they found the seamen heard them; that as soon 
as ever they heard the seamen answer them, they should return it 
again, and then keeping out of sight, take a round, always answering 
when the other hallooed, to draw them as far into the- island and 
among the woods as possible and then wheel about again to me, by 
such ways as I directed them. 

They were just going into the boat, when Friday and the mate 
hallooed; and they presently heard them, and answering, ran along 
tiie shore westward toward the voices they heard, whoi they were 
presently stopped by the creek, where, the water being up, they could 

172 



Robinson Crusoe 

not get over, and called for the boat to come up and set them over, 
as indeed I expected. 

When they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat being 
gone up a good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a harbor 
within the land, they took one of the three men out of her to go 
along with them, and left only two in the boat, having fastened her 
to the stump of a little tree on the shore. 

This was what I wished for, and immediately leaving Friday and 
the captain’s mate to their business, I took the rest with me, and 
crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men before 
they were aware; one of them lying on shore, and the other being 
in the boat; the fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking 
and going to start up; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon 
him, and knocked him down, and then caUed out to him in the boat 
to yield, or he was a dead man. 

There needed very few arguments to persuade a single man to 
yield, when he saw five men upon him and his comrade knocked 
down; besides, this was, it seems, one of the three who were not 
so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was 
easily persuaded not only to yield but afterward to join very sincere 
with us. 

In the meantime, Friday and the captain’s mate so well managed 
their business with the rest that they drew them by hallooing and 
answering from one hill to another, and from one wood to another, 
till they not only heartily tired them but left them, where they were 
very sure they could not reach back to the boat before it was dark; 
and indeed they were heartily tired themselves also by the time they 
came back to us. 

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark and 
to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them. . . . 

At length they came up to the boat; but ’tis impossible to express 
their confusion, when they found the boat fast aground in the creek, 
the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. We could hear them 
call to one another in a most lamentable manner, telling one another 
they were gotten into an enchanted island; that either there were in> 
habitants in it, and they should all be murdered, or else there were 
devils and spirits in it, and they should be all carried away and 
devoured. . . . 

I residved to wait to see if they did not separate; and th^fore to 
tnake sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer and ordered Frir 

173 



' Daniel Defoe 

day and the captain to creep upon their hands and feet, as close to 
the ground as they could, that they might not be discovered, and get 
as near them as they could possibly before they offered to fire. 

Th^ had not been long in that posture, but that the boatswain, 
«^o was the principal ringleader of the mutiny and had now shown 
himself the most dejected and dispirited of all the rest, came walk- 
ing toward them, with two more of their crew; the captain jmas so 
eager, as having this principal rogue so much in his power, ^t he 
could hardly have patience to let him come so near as to be sure of 
him; for they only heard his tongue before. But when they\came 
nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up on their feet, let m at 
diem. \ 

The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next man was shot 
into the body, and fell just by him, though he did not die till an hour or 
two after; and the third ran for it 

At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced with my whole 
army, which was now eight men, viz., myself, generalissimo, Friday, 
my lieutenant-general, the captain and his two men, and the fhree 
prisoners of war, whom we had trusted with arms. 

We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that they could not 
see our number; and I made the man they had left in the boat, who 
was now one of us, call to them by name, to try if I could bring them 
to a parley and so might perhaps reduce them to terms, which fell 
out just as we desired. . . . 

In a word, they all laid down their arms and begged their lives; 
and 1 sent the man that had parleyed with them and two more, who 
bound diem all; and then my great army which, particularly with 
those three, were all but eight, came up and seized upon them all 
and upon their boat; only I kept myself and one more out of sig^t, 
for reasons of state. . . . 

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was come, 
and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these fellows in to be 
hear^ in getting possession of the ship; so I retired in the dark from 
them, that they might not see what kind of a governor they had, 
and called the captain to me; when I called, as at a ^eat (fistance, 
one of the men was ordered to speak again and say to the captain, 
“Captain, the commander calls for you”; and presently the c^tain 
rq>lied, “Tell his excellency, 1 am just a-coming.” This more per- 
fectly amused them, and th^ all believed that the commander was 
just by with fifty men. 

174 



Deliverance Put in My Hands 

U PON THE captain’s COMING TO ME, I told him my project for 
semng the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and resolved 
to put in execution the next morning. 

But in order to execute it with more art, and secure of success, I 
told him we must divide the prisoners, and that he should go and 
take the worst of them, and send them pinioned to the cave where 
the others lay. This was committed to Friday and the two men who 
came on shore with the captain. 

They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison; and it was indeed 
a dismal place, especially to men in their condition. 

The other I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I have 
given a full description; and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, 
the place was secure enough, considering they were upon their be- 
havior. 

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter into 
a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and tell me, whether he 
thought they migiht be trusted or no, to go on board and surprise the 
ship. He talked to them of the injury done him, of the ccmdition they 
were brought to; and that though the governor had ^ven them 
quarter for their lives, as to the present action, yet that if they were 
sent to England, they would all be hanged in chains, to be sure; but 
that if they would join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship, 
he would have the governor’s engagement for their pardon. 

Anyone may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted 
by men in their condition; they fell down on their knees to the cap- 
tain and promised with the deepest imprecations that they would be 
faithful to him to the last drop, and that they should owe their lives 
to him and would go with him all over the world; that they would 
own him for a father to them as long as they lived. 

“Well,” says the captain, “I must go and tell the governor what 
you say, and see what I can do to bring him to consent to it.” So he 
brought me an account of the temper he found them in; and that he 
verily believed they would be faithful. 

HowevR, tiiat we mi^t be very secure, I told him he should go 
back again and ihoose out five of them, and tell them th^ might 
see that he did not want tiiem, tiiat he would take out those five to 
be ha that the governor would keep the other two 

175 



Daniel Defoe 

and the three that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave) as 
hostages, for the fidelity of those five; and that if they proved un- 
faithful in the execution, the five hostages should be hanged in chains 
alive upon the shore. . . . 

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition. 1. The cap- 
tain, his mate, and passenger. 2. Then the two prisoners of t|ie first 
gang, to whom, having their characters from the captain, I had given 
their liberty, and trusted them with arms. 3. The other two whom I 
had kept till now in my apartment, pinioned; but upon the captain’s 
motion, had now released. 4. The single man taken in the bqat. 5. 
These five released at last. So that they were thirteen in all, besides 
five we kept prisoners in the cave, and the two hostages. ' 

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these hands 
on board the ship; for as for me and my man Friday, I did not think 
it was proper for us to stir, having seven men left behind, and it was 
employment enough for us to keep them asunder, and supply them 
widi victuals. 

As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast; but Friday 
went in twice a day to them, to supply them with necessaries; and 
I made the other two carry provisions to a certain distance, where 
Friday was to take them. 

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the cap- 
tain, who told them I was the person the governor had ordered to 
look after them, and that it was the governor’s pleasure they should 
not stir anywhere but by my direction; that if they did, they should 
be fetched into the castle, and be laid in irons; so that as we never 
suffered them to see me as governor, so I now appeared as another 
person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, &e castle, and the 
like, upon all occasions. 

The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish his 
two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made his pas- 
senger captain of one, with four other men; and himself and his mate 
and six more went in the other. And they contrived their business 
very well; for they came up to the ship about midnight. As soon as 
ffiey came within call of the ship, he made one of the men hail them 
and ten them they had brought off the men and the boat, but that 
it was a long time before they had found them, and the like; holding 
them in a chat tiU they came to the ship’s side; when the captain and 
the mate entering first with their arms, immediately knocked down 
the second mate and carpenter with the butt-end of their muskets. 

176 



Robinson Crusoe 

Being very faithfully seconded by their men, they secured all the 
rest that were upon die main and quarter decks and began to fasten 
the hatches to keep them down who were below, when the other boat 
and their men entering at the fore chains, secured the fotecasde of 
the ship and the scutUe which went down into the cook room, mak- 
ing three men they found there prisoners. 

When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the captain ordered 
the mate with three men to break into the roundhouse, where the 
new rebel captain lay, and having taken the alarm, was gotten up, 
and with two men and a boy had gotten firearms in their hands; and 
when the mate with a crow split open the door, the new captain and 
his men fired boldly among them and wounded the mate with a mus- 
ket ball, which broke his arm and wounded two more of the men, 
but killed nobody. 

Hie mate, calling for help, rushed however into the roundhouse, 
wounded as he was, and wi& his pistol shot the new captain through 
the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and came out again be- 
hind one of his ears, so that he never spoke a word; upon which the 
rest yielded, and the ship was taken effectually, without any more 
lives lost. 

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven 
guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me, to give 
me notice of his success, which you may be sure I was very glad to 
hear, having sat watching upon the shore for it till near two of the 
clock in the morning. 

Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down; and it hav- 
ing been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, fill I was 
something surprised with the noise of a gun; and presently starting 
up, I heard a man caU me by the name of “Governor, Governor,” 
and presently I knew the captain’s voice; when, climbing up to the 
top of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he embraced 
me in his arms. “My dear friend and deliverer,” says he, “there’s 
your ship, for she is all yours, and so are we and all that belong to 
her.” I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode within little 
more than half a mile of the shore; for they had weighed her anchor 
as socm as they were masters of her; and the weather being fair, had 
brou^t her to an anchor just against the mouth of the little creek; 
and the tide being up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near 
the place where I at first landed my rafts, and so landed just at my 
door. 


177 



Daniel Defoe 

I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise. For I saw my 
deliverance indeed visibly put into my hands, all things easy, and a 
large ship just ready to carry me away whither I pleased to go. At 
first, for some time, I was not able to answer him one word; but as 
he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him or I should have 
fallen to the ground. 

He perceived the surprise, and hnlnediately pulls a bottle out of 
his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial, which he had brought on 
purpose for me; after I had drunk it, 1 sat down upon the nound; 
and though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good while rofore I 
could speak a word to him. \ 

All this while the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as ^ only 
not under any surprise, as I was; and he said a thousand kind tender 
things to me, to compose me and bring me to myself; but such was 
the flood of joy in my breast that it put all my spirits into confusion; 
at last it broke out into tears, and in a little while after I recovered 
my speech. 

Then I took my turn and embraced him as my deliverer, and we 
rejoiced together. I told him I looked upon him as a man sent from 
Heaven to deliver me, and that the whole transaction seemed to be a 
chain of wonders; that such things as these were the testimonies we 
had of a secret hand of Providence governing the world, and an evi- 
dence that the eyes of an infinite Power could search into the re- 
motest comer of the world, and send help to the miserable when- 
ever He {deased. 

I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to Heaven; and 
what heart could forbear to bless Him, who had not only in a mirac- 
ulous manner provided for one in such a wilderness and in such a 
desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance must always 
be acknowledged to proceed. 

When we had tall^ a while, the captain told me he had brought 
me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded, and such as 
the wretches that had been so long his masters had not plundered 
him of. Upon this he called aloud to the boat, and bid his men 
bring the things ashore that were for . the g^emor; and indeed it 
was a present, as if I had been oiw, not that was to carried away 
along with them, but as if I had bWn to dwell upon the Mand still 
and they were to go without me. 

First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial 

178 



Robinson Crusoe 

waters, ^ large bottles of madeira wine (the bottles held two quarts 
apiece), two pound of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of 
the ship’s beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about 
a hundredweight of biscuit. 

He brought me also a box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag full 
lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and abundance of other things. 
But besides these, and what was a thousand times more useful to 
me, he brought me six clean new shirts, six very good neckcloths, 
two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stock- 
ings, and a very good suit of clothes of his own, which had been worn 
but very little. In a word, he clothed me from head to foot. 

It was a very kind and a^eeable present, as anyone may ima gine. , 
to one in my circumstances. But never was anything in the world of 
that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy as it was to me to 
wear such clothes at tlicir first putting on. 

After these ceremonies passed, and after all his good things were 
brought into my little apartment, we began to consult what was to 
be done with Ae prisoners we had; for it was worth considering 
whether we might venture to take them away with us or no, espe- 
cially two of them, who we knew to be incorrigible and refractory 
to the last degree; and the captain said, he knew they were such 
rogues that there was no obliging them, and if he did carry them 
away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered over to 
justice at the first English colony he could come at; and I found that 
the captain himself was very anxious about it. 

Upon this, I told him, that if he desired it, I dared undertake to 
bring the two men he spoke of to make it their own request that he 
should leave them upon the island. “I should be very glad of that,” 
says the captain, “with all my heart.” 

“Well,” says I, “I will send for them up, and talk with them for 
you”; so I caused Friday and tlw two hostages, for they were now 
discharged, their comrades having performed their promise; I say, I 
caused them to go to the cave and bring up the five men, pinimied 
as they were, to the bower, and keep them there till I came. 

After some time I came thither dressed in my new habit, and now 
1 was called governor again; being all met, and the captain with me, 
1 caused the men to be brought before me, and I told them, I had 
had a full account of their villainous behavior to the captain, and 
how they had run away with the ship and were preparing to commit 

179 



Daniel Defoe 

further robberies, but that Providence had ensnared them in their 
own ways and that they were fallen into the pit which they had dug 
for others. 

I let them know diat by my direction the ship had been seized, 
that she lay now in the road; and they might see by and by that 
their new captain had received the reward of his villainy; fpr that 
they might see him hanging at the yardarm. 

That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to say,\ why 1 
should not execute them as pirates taken in the fact, as by my com- 
mission they could not doubt I had authority to do. \ 

One of them answered in the name of the rest that they had noth- 
ing to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain promised 
them their lives, and they humbly implored my mercy. But I told 
them, I knew not what mercy to show them; for as for myself, I had 
resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had taken passage 
with the captain to go for England. And as for the captain, he could 
not carry them to England other than as prisoners in irons, to be 
tried for mutiny and running away with the ship; the consequence 
of which, they must needs know, would be the gallows; so that I 
could not tell which was best for them, unless they had a mind to 
take their fate in the island; if they desired that, I did not care, as I 
had liberty to leave it; I had some inclination to give them their 
lives, if they thought they could shift on shore. 

They seemed very thankful for it, said they would much rather 
venture to stay there than to be carried to England to be hanged; 
so I left it on that issue. 

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, as if 
he dared not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little angry 
with the captain, and told him that they were my prisoners, not his; 
and that seeing I had offered them so much favor, I would be as 
good as my word; and that if he did not diink fit to consent to it, I 
would set them at liberty, as I found them; and if he did not like it, 
he might take them again if he could catch them. 

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set them 
at liber^, and bade them retire into the woods to the place whence 
they came, and I would leave them some firearms, some anununi- 
tion, and some directions’ how they should live very well, if they 
thought fit. 

Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship, but told the captain 

180 



Robinson Crusoe 

that I would stay that night to prepare my things, and desired him 
to go on board in the meantime, and keep all right in the ship, and 
send the boat on shore the next day for me; ordering Mm in the 
meantime to cause the new captain who was killed to be hanged at 
the yardarm, that these men mi^t see him. 

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me to my 
apartment and entered seriously into discourse with them of their 
circumstances. I told them I thought they had made a right choice; 
that if the captain carried them away, they would certainly be hanged. 
I showed them the new captain hanging at the yardarm of the ship, 
and told them they had nothing less to expect. 

When they had all declared their willingness to stay ... I gave 
them every part of my own story; and I told them I would prevail 
with the captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder more and 
some garden seeds, which I told them I would have been very glad of; 
also I gave them the bag of peas which the captain had brought me 
to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and increase them. 

Having done all this, I left them the next day and went on board 
the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not weigh that 
night. The next morning early, two of the five men came swimming 
to the ship’s side, and making a most lamentable complaint of the 
other three, begged to be taken into the ship, for God’s sake, for they 
should be murdered and begged the captain to take them on board, 
though he hanged them immediately. 

Upon this the captain pretended to have no power without me; 
but after some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of amend- 
ment, they were taken on board, and were some time after soundly 
whipped and pickled; • after which, they proved very honest and 
quiet fellows. 

Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide being 
up, with the things promised to the men, to which the captain, at my 
intercession, caused their chests and clothes to be added, which they 
took and were very thankful for; I also encouraged them by telling 
them that if it lay in my way to send any vessel to take them in, I 
would not forget them. 

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board for relics, the 
great goatskin cap I had made, my umbrella, and my parrot; also I 
forgot not to take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain 
* Immersed in salt water 


181 



Daniel Defoe 

by me so long useless that it was grown rusty, or tanushed, and could 
hardly pass for silver, till it had been a little rubbed and handled; 
as also the money I found in the wreck of the Spanish ship. 

And thus 1 left the island, the 19th of December, as I foimd by 
the ship’s account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon it eig^t- 
and-twenty years, two months, and nineteen days; being delivered 
from this second captivity the sameMhy of the month that I Sijst made 
my escape in the barco-longo, from among the Moors oflSal6. 

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in Engfland, the U 1th of 
June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-and-five years absent. 

When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to W the 
world as if I had never been known there. My benefactor and'faith- 
ful steward, whom I had left in trust with my money, was alive; but 
had had great misfortunes in the world; was become a widow the 
second time, and very low in the world. I made her easy as to what 
she owed me, assuring her I would give her no trouble; but on the 
contrary, in gratitude to her former care and faithfulness to me, I 
relieved her as my little stock would afford, which, at that time, y/ould 
indeed allow me to do but little for her; but I assured her, I would 
never forget her former kindness to me nor did 1 forget her, when I 
had sufficient to help her, as shall be observed in its place. 

I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father was dead, 
and my mother and all the family extinct, except that I found two 
sisters, and two of the children of one of my brothers; and as I had 
been long ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made 
for me; so that in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist me; and 
that little money 1 had would not do much for me as to settling in 
the world. 

I met with one {uece of gratitude indeed, which I did not expect; 
and this was that the master of the ship, whom I had so happily de- 
livered, and by the same means saved the ship and cargo, having 
given a very handsome account to the owners of the manner how I 
had saved the lives of the men and the ship, they invited me to meet 
them, and some other merduints ctmcemed, and all together made 
me a very handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present of 
almost two hundred pounds sterling. 

But after making several reflections upcm the circumstances of 
my life, and how little way this would go toward settling me in die 
wodd, I resolved to go to Lisbon and see if 1 might not come by some 
information (rf the state of my plantation in the Brazils. . . . 

182 



Robinson Crusoe 

With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April 
following; my man Friday accompanying me very honestly in all 
these ramblings and proving a most faithful servant upon all occa- 
sions. 

[The Portuguese captain welcomed Crusoe and helped him to re- 
gain his Bravlian plantation, which had been confiscated on his 
supposed death. Crusoe promptly sold it to build up his fortune.} 


Over the Mountains 

[Returning to England through France, Crusoe and Friday were 

attacked by mountain wolves and bears, but luckily escaped. 

Back in England, Crusoe kept pining for Brazil and his island.} 

In the meantime, I in part settled myself here; for first of all I mar- 
ried, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction, and 
had three children, two sons and one daughter. But my wife dying, 
and my nephew coming home with good success from a voyage to 
Spain, my inclination to go abroad and his importunity prevailed and 
engaged me to go in his ship, as a private trader to Ae East Indies. 
This was in the year 1694. 

In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island, saw my suc- 
cessors the Spaniards, had the whole story of their lives, and of the 
villains I left there; how at first they insulted the poor Spaniards, 
how they afterward agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how at 
last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence with them, how they 
were subjected to the Spaniards, how honestly the Spaniards used 
them; a history, if it were entered into, as full of variety and wonder- 
ful accidents as my own part; particularly also as to their battles with 
the Caribbeans, who landed several times upon the island, and as 
to the improvement they made upon the island itself, and how five 
of them made an attempt upon the mainland, and brought away 
eleven men and five wommi prisoners, by which, at my coming, I 
foimd about twenty young children on the island. 

Here I stayed about twenty days, left them supplies of all neces- 
sary things, and {orticularly of arms, powder, shot, clothes, tools, and 
two workmen, which I brou^t from ^^and with me, viz;, a carpen- 
ter and a smi&. 


183 



Daniel Defoe 

Besides this, I shared the island into parts with ’em, reserved to 
myself the property of the whole, but gave them such parts respec- 
tively as they agreed on; and having settled all things with them, 
and engaged them not to leave the place, I left them there. 

From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence I sent a bark, 
which I bought there, with more people to the island; and in it, 
besides other supplies, I sent seven women, being such as I found 
proper for service, or for wives to such as^wQuld take them. As to the 
Englishm en, I promised them to send them some women from Eng- 
land, with a good cargo of necessaries, if they would apply them- 
selves to planting, which I afterwards performed. And the fellovs 
proved very honest and diligent after they were mastered and had 
their properties set apart for them. I sent them also from the Brazils 
five cows, three of them being big with calf, some sheep, and some 
hogs, which, when I came again, were considerably increased. 

But all these things, with an account how 300 Caribbees came 
and invaded them, and ruined their plantations, and how they fought 
with that whole number twice, and were at first defeated, and three 
of them killed; but at last, a storm destroying their enemies* canoes, 
they famished or destroyed almost aU the rest, and renewed and' 
recovered the possession of their plantation, and still lived upon 
the island. 

All these things, with some very surprising incidents in some new 
adventures of my own, for ten years more, I may perhaps give a 
farther account of hereafter. 


184 







HOME COURSE APPRECIATION 


W HEN A FAMOUS NEW YORK HOSTESS discovered that her new 
ballroom would accommodate no more than four hundred 
people. Ward McAllister, the arbiter of New York and 
Newport socie^, reduced her guest list to that number. From that 
time on, the name “the four hundred” has been used to designate a 
social elite. When O. Henry was looking for a title for a book of 
his short stories about life in New York, he made use of the snob- 
bish phrase as a convenient means of describing his own interests. 
Defiantly, he titled his book The Four Million, because he was con- 
cerned with everyone but the pampered few. 

O. Henry was a melancholy man who lived a life that was as 
whimsical and ironic as any of which he wrote. He was bom Wil- 
liam Sidney Porter in Greensboro, North Carolina, in 1862, and 
during his childhood he shared the humiliation of the South’s defeat 
in the Civil War. Wandering through the West as a casual jack-of- 
all-trades, he became a bank clerk in Texas, was prosecuted for 
forgery, ran away to Central America, returned and served three 
years in the penitentiary — an experience that enriched his compas- 
sion for the unfortunate. While in prison he began to write; and 
after his release, he moved to New York and wrote short stories at 
a furious rate for weekly newspapers and magazines until his death 
in 1910. 

These stories mostly follow the old-fashioned pattern of a narra- 
tive told in the third person, ending with a surprise twist. In “The 
Gift of the Magi,” for example, Ddla sells her magnificent hair to 
buy a watch fob for her husband, Jim, only to leam that he has sold 
his watch to buy combs for her hair. In “The Fumidied Room,” 
diis sur^se twist is provided by Mrs. Purdy’s conversation with 
Mrs. McCooL The pattern is ingenious, but like all fixed patterns, it 
eventually becomes predictable and, thereafter, monotonous. O. 
Henry wrote more than two hundred and fifty short stories. It finally 

187 





Portrait of William Sydney Porter, known as O. Henry. 

becomes impossible for the most innocent reader to be surprised 
that many times by the same device. 

Yet O. Henry is not read exclusively for plots. He is read for his 
warmth and geniality, for his wit and for the subtle touches of 
sympathy which caused him, for example, to emphasize the dis- 
tinction between a “shopgirl” and a girl who works in a shop. He 
is one of the gentlest and friendliest of guides to the metropolis. 
After fifty years, the metropolis is still pretty much as O. Henry 
delineated it — ^the focus of a mechanized society, where one’s iden- 
tity is dung to, even among the furnished rooms let by the week to 
transients. As a period writer, O. Henry has fixed the gaslight era 
in America as wdl as any of his contemporaries. His slang has lost 
its savor, and his sense of detail, once celebrated for its “realism,” is 

188 



now merely picturesque, but such changes in taste have not di- 
minished his readability. 

“The Furnished Room,” aiming at an effect that is essentially 
pathetic, might well be merely depressing. But there are sardonic, 
humorous touches that prevent the story from becoming maudlin. 
On the whole, O. Henry paid no very great attention to the cre- 
ation of character. So far as we see the two lovers, they are inno- 
cents with indistinct personalities; even the two landladies are quite 
identical. Any serious study of character is sacrificed to the almost 
poetic contrast between the brutal city and the hapless souls who 
inhabit it. The effect achieved by this contrast is mixed; we are 
almost amused by the irony of circumstance, but its pathetic conse- 
quences turn our smiles to melancholy musing. 


189 






R estless, shifting, fugacious as time is a certain vast bulk of 
. the population of the red brick district of the lower West Side. 
Homeless, ttey have a hundred homes. They flit from furnished room 
to furnished room, transients forever — transients in abode, transients 
in heart and mind. They sing Home, Sweet Home in ragtime; they 
carry their lares et penates in a bandbox; their vine is entwined about 
a picture bat; a rubber plant is their fig tree. 

Hence the houses of this district, having had a thousand dwellers, 
should have a thousand tales to tell, mostly dull ones, no doubt; but 
it would be strange if there could not be found a ghost or two in 
the wake of all these vagrant guests. 

One evening after dark a young man prowled among these crum- 
bling red mansions, ringing their bells. At the twelfth he rested his 
lean hand baggage upon the step and wiped the dust from his hat- 
band and forehead. The bell sounded faint and far away in some 
remote, hollow depths. 

To the door of this, the twelfth house whose bell he had rung, 
came a housekeeper who made him think of an unwholesome, sur- 
feited worm that had eaten its nut to a hoUow shell and now sought 
to fill the vacancy with edible lodgers. 

He asked if there was a room to let. 

“Come in,” said the housekeeper. Her vcnce came from her throat; 
h»^ throat seemed lined with fur. “I have the fiiird-floor-back, vacant 
since a week back. Shoidd you wish to look at it?” 

191 


O. Henry 

The young man followed her up the stairs. A fmnt light from no 
particular source mitigated the shadows of the halls. They trod noise- 
lessly upon a stair carpet that its own loom would have forsworn. 
It seemed to have become vegetable; to have degenerated in that 
rank, sunless air to lush lichen or spreading moss that grew in 
patches to the staircase and was viscid under the foot like organic 
matter. At each turn of the stairs were vacant niches in the wall. 
Perhaps plants had once been set within .ihem. If so they had dnd 
in that foul and tainted air. It may be that statues of the saints Had 
stood there, but it was not difficult to conceive that imps and dews 
had dragged them forth in the darkness and down to the unholy 
depths of some furnished pit below. \ 

“This is the room,” said the housekeeper, from her furry throai 
“It’s a nice room. It ain’t often vacant. I had some most elegant 
people in it last summer — no trouble at all, and paid in advance to 
the minute. The water’s at the end of the hall. Sprowls and Mooney 
kept it three months. They done a vaudeville sketch. Miss B’retta 
Sprowls — ^you may have heard of her — Oh, that was just the stage 
names — ^right there over the dresser is where the marriage certifi- 
cate hung, framed. The gas is here, and you see there is plenty of 
closet room. It’s a room everybody likes. It never stays idle long.” 

“Do you have many theatrical people rooming here?” asked the 
young man. 

“They comes and goes. A good proportion of my lodgers is con- 
nected with the theaters. Yes, sir, this is the theatrical district. Actor 
people never stays long anywhere. I get my share. Yes, they comes 
and they goes.” 

He engaged the room, paying for a week in advance. He was 
tired, he said, and would take possession at once. He counted out 
the money. The room had been made ready, she said, even to tow- 
els and water. As the housekeeper moved away he put, for die 
thousandth time, the question that he carried at the end of his 
tongue. 

“A young girl — Miss Vashner — ^Miss Eloise Vashner — do you 
remember such a one among your lodgers? She would be singing 
on the stage, most likely. A fair girl, of medium hei^t and slender, 
with reddish, gold hair and a dark mole near her left eyebrow.” 

“No, I don’t remember the name. Them stage people has names 
they change as often as their rooms. They comes and they goes. 
No, I don’t call that one to mind.” 

192 



The Furnished Room 

No. Always no. Five months of ceaseless interrogation and the 
inevitable negative. So much time spent by day in questioning man- 
agers, agents, schools and choruses; by night among the audiences 
of theaters from all-star casts down to music halls so low that he 
dreaded to find what he most hoped for. He who had loved her best 
had tried to find her. He was sure that since her disappearance from 
home this great, water-^ city held her somewhere, but it was like 
a monstrous quicksand, shifting its particles constantly, with no 
foundation, its upper granules of today buried tomorrow in ooze and 
slime. 

The furnished room received its latest guest with a first glow of 
pseudo-hospitality, a hectic, hazard, perfunctory welcome like the 
specious smile of a demirep. Ibe sophistical comfort came in re- 
fiected gleams from the decayed furniture, the ragged brocade up-^ 
holstery of a couch and two chairs, a foot-wide cheap pier g^ass 
between the two windows, from one or two gilt picture frames and 
a brass bedstead in a comer. 

The guest reclined, inert, upon a chair, while the room, confused 
in speech as thou^ it were an apartment in Babel, tried to dis- 
course to him of its divers tenantry. 

A polychromatic rug like some brilliant-fiowered, rectangular, 
tropical islet lay surrounded by a billowy sea of soiled matting. 
Upon the gay-papered wall were those pictures that pursue the 
homeless one from house to house — The Huguenot Lovers, The 
First Quarrel, The Wedding Breakfast, Psyche at the Fountain. The 
mantel’s chastely severe outline was ingloriously veiled behind some 
pert drapery drawn rakishly askew like the sashes of the Amazon- 
ian ballet. Upon it was some desolate fiotsam cast aside by the 
room’s marooned tenants when a lucky sail had borne them to a 
fresh port — a trifling vase or two, pictures of actresses, a medicine 
bottle, some stray cards out of a deck. 

One by one, as the characters of a cryptograph become explicit, 
the little signs left by the furnished room’s procession of guests de- 
veloped a significance. The threadbare space in the rug in front of 
the dresser told that lovely women had marched in the throng. The 
tiny fingerprints on the wall spoke of little prisoners trying to feel 
their way to sun and air. A splattered stain, raying like the shadow 
of a bursting bomb, witnessed where a hurled glass or bottle had 
splintered with its contents against the wall. Across the pier glass 
had been scrawled with a diamond in staggering letters the name 

193 



O. Henry 

“Marie.” It seemed that die succession of dweQers in the furnished 
room had turned in fury — ^perhaps tempted beyond forbearance by 
its garish coldness — and wreaked upon it their passions. The furni- 
ture was chipped and bruised; the couch, distorted by bursting 
springs, seemed a horrible monster that had been slain during the 
stress of some grotesque convulsion. Some more potent upheaval 
had doven a great slice from the marble mantel. Each plank in the 
floor owned its particular cant and shriek 9s from a separate and in- 
dividual agony. It seemed incredible that' all this malice and inj^ 
had been wrought upon the room by those who had called it foi a 
time their home; and yet it may have been the cheated home m- 
stinct surviving blindly, the resentful rage at false household goqs 
that had kindled their wrath. A hut that is our own we can swee^ 
and adorn and cherish. 

The young tenant in the chair allowed these thoughts to file, soft- 
shod, through his mind, while there drifted into the room furnished 
sounds and furnished scents. He heard in one room a tittering and 
incontinent, slack laughter; in others the monologue of a scold, the 
rattling of dice, a lullaby, and one crying dully; above him a banjo 
tinkled with spirit. Doors banged somewhere; the elevated trains 
roared intermittently; a cat yowled miserably upon a back fence. 
And he breathed the breath of the house — a dank savor rather than 
a smell — a cold, musty efSuviiun as from underground vaults min- 
gled with the reeking exhalations of linoleum and mildewed and 
rotten woodwork. 

Then suddenly, as he rested thm«, the room was filled with the 
strong, sweet odor of mignonette. It came as upon a single buffet 
of wind with such sureness and fragrance and emphasis Aat it al- 
most seemed a living visitant. And the man cried aloud: “What, 
dear?” as if he had been called, and sprang up and faced about. 
The rich odor clung to him and wrapped him around. He reached 
out his arms for it, all his senses for the time confused and conunin- 
^ed. How could one be peremptorily called by an odor? Surely it 
must have been a sound. But, was it not the sound that had toudied, 
that had caressed him? 

‘*She has been in this room,” he cried, and he sprang to wrest 
from it a token, for he knew he would recognize the anallest thing 
that had belonged to her or that she had toudied. Ibis envelof^ 
scent of migncmette, the odor that die had loved and made her own 
— whence came it? 


194 



The Furnished Room 

The room had been but carelessly set in order. Scattered upon 
the flimsy dresser scarf were half a dozen hairpins — ^those discreet, 
indistinguishable friends of womankind, feminine of gender, infini te 
mood and uncommunicative of tense. These he ignored, conscious 
of their triumphant lack of identity. Ransacking the drawers of the 
dresser he came upon a discarded, tiny, ragged handkerchief. He 
pressed it to his face. It was racy and insolent with heliotrope; he 
Wled it to the floor. In another drawer he found odd buttons, a 
theater programme, a pawnbroker’s card, two lost marshmallows, 
a book on the divination of dreams. In the last was a woman’s black 
satin hair bow, which halted him, poised between ice and fire. But 
the black satin hair bow also is femininity’s demure, impersonal com- 
mon ornament and tells no tales. 

And then he traversed the room like a hound on the scent, skim'^' 
ming the walls, considering the comers of the bul^ng matting on 
his hands and knees, rumma^g mantel and tables, the curtains and 
hangings, the drunken cabinet in the comer, for a visible sign, un- 
able to perceive that she was there beside, around, against, within, 
above him, clinging to him, wooing him, calling him so poignantly 
through the finer senses that even his grosser ones became cognizant 
of the call. Once again he answered loudly: “Yes, dear!’’ and 
turned, wild-eyed, to gaze on vacancy, for he could not yet discern 
form and color and love and outstretched arms in the odor of mi- 
gnonette. Oh, God! whence that odor, and since when have odors 
had a voice to call? Thus he groped. 

He burrowed in crevices and comers, and found corks and ciga- 
rettes. These he passed in passive contempt. But once he found in 
a fold of the matting a half-smoked cigar, and this he ground be- 
neath his heel with a green and trenchant oath. He ^ted the rocmi 
from end to end. He found dreary and ignoble small records of many 
a peripatetic tenant; but of her whom he sought, and who may have 
lodged there, and whose spirit seemed to hover there, he found 
no trace. 

And then he thought of the housekeeper. 

He ran from the haunted room downstairs and to a docnr that 
showed a crack of light. She came out to his knock. He smothered 
his exdtement as best he could. 

“Will you tell me, madam,” he besougjht her, “who occupied die 
room I have before I came?” 

“Yes, »r. I can tell you agmn. ’Twas Sprowls and Mooney, as I 

195 



O. Henry 

said. Miss B’retta Sprowls it was in the theaters, but Missis Mooney 
she was. My house is well known for respectability. The marriage 
certificate hung, framed, on a nail over ” 

“What kind of a lady was Miss Sprowls — ^in looks, I mean?” 

“Why, black-haired, sir, short, and stout, with a comical face. 
They left a week ago Tuesday.” 

“And before they occupied it?” 

“Why, there was a sin^e gentleman oohnected with the drayihg 
business. He left owing me a week. Before him was Missis Crowwr 
and her two children, that stayed four months; and back of them 
was old Mr. Doyle, whose sons paid for him. He kept the room sm 
months. That goes back a year, sir, and further I do not remember.” 

He thanked her and crept back to his room. The room was dead. 
The essence that had vivified it was gone. The perfume of mignon- 
ette had departed. In its place was the old, stale odor of moldy 
house furniture, of atmosphere in storage. 

The ebbing of his hope drained his faith. He sat staring at the 
yellow, swinging gaslight. Soon he walked to the bed and began to 
tear the sheets into strips. With the blade of his knife he drove them 
tightly into every crevice around windows and door. When all was 
snug and taut he turned out the light, turned the gas full on again 
and laid himself gratefully upon the bed. 

It was Mrs. McClool’s night to go with the can for beer. So she 
fetched it and sat with Mrs. Purdy in one of those subterranean re- 
treats where housekeepers foregather and the worm dieth seldom. 

“I rented out my third-floor-back this evening,” said Mrs. Purdy, 
across a fine circle of foam. “A young man took it. He went up to 
bed two hours ago.” 

“Now, did ye, Mrs. Purdy, ma’am?” said Mrs. McCool, with in- 
tense admiration. “You do be a wonder for rentin’ rooms of that 
kind. And did ye tell him, then?” she concluded in a husl^ whisper 
laden with mystery. 

“Rooms,” said Mrs. Purdy, in her furriest tones, “are furnished 
for to rent. I did not tell him, Mrs. McCool.” 

“ Tis right ye are, ma’am; ’tis by renting rooms we kape alive. Ye 
have the rale sense for business, ma’am. There be many people will 
rayjict the rentin’ of a room if they be tould a suicide has been after 
dyin’ in the bed of it.” 

196 



The Furnished Room 

“As you say, we has our living to be making,” remarked Mrs. 
Purdy. 

“Yis, ma’am; ’tis true. ’Tis just one wake ago this day I helped 
ye lay out the third-floor-back. A pretty slip of a colleen she was to 
be killin’ herself wid the gas — a swate Uttle face she had, Mrs. 
Purdy, ma’am.” 

“She’d a-been called handsome, as you say,” said Mrs. Purdy, 
assenting but critical, “but for that mole she had a-growin’ by her 
left eyebrow. Do fill up your g^ass again, Mrs. McCool.” 


197 




WALDEN 

by 

Henry David Thoreau 


A CONDENSATION 




HOME COURSE APPRECIATION 


W alden” is the record of an experiment in living. On 
July 4, 1845, Henry David Thoreau moved to the shores 
of Walden Pond, built himself a house and lived there in 
self-sufficient solitude for two years and two months. Then, having 
proved that a man could be independent of an increasingly indus- 
trialized society, he returned to Concord. 

Thoreau was not a reformer. He was a rebel. He did not expect, 
nor did he urge, others to take themselves to the woods as he had 
lived at Walden. In many ways his experiment was a demonstration 
against the factory system which he felt was destroying man and 
the countryside. New England, like old England, was becoming a 
land of factories, and the factory owners were little concerned if their 
enterprises blighted the landscape so long as they were profitable. 
“Nature” was oidy as beautiful as it was usable. But to Thoreau a 
stream was more than a source of power, a tree more than the raw 
material of the builder. 

Walden is far more than an account of two years of living close 
to nature. It is a sharp criticism of the blighting of man’s spirit by 
his preoccupation with material things; it is a criticism of society and 
a plea for individualism. Walden, which at first ^ance may seem 
parochial, has infiuenced social thinkers the world over. In the early 
days of the British Labour Party it was one of the handbooks of the 
par^ leaders. 


A VILLAGE OF PHILOSOPHERS 

During the middle years of the nineteenth century. Concord, 
Massachusetts, was indeed a remarkable place. A village oi about 
two thousand people, it was the home of some of the best-known 
writers and thinkers in the United States. Ralph Waldo Emerson* 
poet, sage and philosopher, lived there, as did Orestes Brownson, 

201 



the eccentric, hi^y origbnd political philosof^er. It was the home 
of the Alcotts — ^Bronson, a well-known educator and reformer, and 
his daughter Louisa May, soon to become famous as a writer of 
books for children. Nathaniel Hawthorne lived for a time jn Con- 
cord and Herman Melville was a frequent visitor there. 

Henry David Thoreau was bom in Uncord on July 12, 1817, the 
son of John Thoreau and Cynthia Dunbar. John Thoreau manu- 
factured lead pencils in a shed attached, to the Thoreau home and 
all the members of the family, at one time or another, helped in tae 
family business. Mrs. Thoreau supplemented their income by taki^ 
in boarders. Henry attended Concord Academy and entered Ha^ 
vard in 1833. He was a keen scholar who pursued his own . intel- 
lectual interests and who made no attempt to achieve standing in 
the conventional maimer. He was especially fond of the seventeenth- 
century metaphysical poets, Herbert, Donne, Crashaw and 
Vaughan, and of the prose works of Sir Thomas Browne. When he 
graduated in 1837 he was an unusually well-read young man, al- 
Aough he ranked somewhere in the middle of his class. At Harvard 
he showed his contempt for conformity by wearing a green coat to 
chapel “because the rules required black.” 

THE SCHOOLMASTER 

'COLLOWiNG HIS GRADUATION from College Thoreau taught school in 
-^Concord. The school board was disturbed, however, to learn that 
he did not whip the students. He disdained switches and kept order 
by persuasion and by the force of his personality. But it was an age 
of belief in axioms like “spare the rod and spoil the child.” When a 
member of the school board complained to Thoreau about his easy 
discipline, he reacted in a characteristic way. To show the complete 
absurdity of corporal punishment, he marched into the classroom 
the next morning, picked up a switch and whipped six children 
chosen at random. That night he resigned his position. With his 
brother John he opened a small private school in Concord. The 
brothers were just becoming successful when John’s illness, which 
was to prove fatal, forced them to abandon the project, for Henry 
did not want to carry on alone. 

He had in the meantime become acquainted with Emerson and 
riiortly after ceasing to keep schoiti he went to live in Emerson’s 
hmne. In May 1843, he journeyed to Staten Island, New Ymrk, 
where be worked as tutmr to the children of Emerson’s brother Wil- 

202 



Uam, and explored the New York literary market. But Hioreau was 
not happy away from Concord. He wrote to his mother, “Methinks 
I should be content to sit at the backdoor in Concord, under the 
poplar tree, henceforth forever.” His few months’ sojourn in New 
York was the longest period he ^er spent away from his home 
town. 


THE TRANSCENDENTALISTS 

A LTHOUGH THOREAU had no Steady occupation, he was by no means 
an idler. He helped his famQy make pencils, gardened, did 
considerable surveying and generally made himself useful. Indeed, 
he was almost the town “handyman.” His entire life was a pro> 
test against materialism. He was a member of the Transcendental 
Club, a group of intellectuals that included George Ripley, Theodore. 
Parker, both former Unitarian ministers, Bronson Alcott and Mar- 
garet Fuller, which met at Emerson’s house to discuss philosophy. 

All over New England, people were turning away from the stem 
tenets of Calvinism to the mil^r doctrine of Unitarianism, with its 
rediscovery of the principle of individual responsibility, and to Tran- 
scendentalism, a literary as well as a philosophic movement. Tran- 
scendentalism was a manifestation of the general humanitarian thought 
of the century. It was both a spirit of practical idealism and an 
eagerness to transcend the ordinary concerns and the accepted views 
of life. It turned away from the orthodoxy of the harsher Puritan 
divines, and it rejected equally the rationalism and skepticism of 
the ei^teenth century. It found its sources in many streams — ^the 
mysticism of Jonathan Edwards, the Puritan divine; the [Mosophy 
of Kant, with its insistence that man needed to know more Aan 
physical phenomena; the romanticism of Coleridge and Carlyle; the 
idealism of Plato and the {Mosophical concepts of the seventeenth- 
century metaphysical writers. 

In addition, Hindu mystidsm as expressed in the great Hindu 
epic, the Bhagavad Gita, particularly attracted Emerson and Tho- 
reau. For all his surface unworidliness, Thoreau was a practical 
Yankee and the Hindu epic seemed to him admirably to combine 
the life of action with that of conten^ladon. Emerson probably best 
summed up the beliefs of the Transcendentalists in his essay “The 
Ov»-SouL” Tbe Ovor-Soul, he wrote, is “that Um^ within which 
eveiyman’s particular being is contained and made one with all 
other.” God is one widi the world, tod “man is only a faece of the 

203 



universe made alive.” Each man has within himself, if he will only 
follow his bent, the seeds of divinity. Man can f ulfill himself by 
mystical contemplation, the complete fusion of the human and the 
divine, or by communion with Nature throu^ the agency of the 
Over-Soul. “Trust thyself’ might be called the motto of Transcen- 
dentalism. 


THE NATURALIST 

Henry David Thoreau was one of America’s best observers pf 
outdoor life. Quick, silent, clear of sight, sharp of ear and endlessW 
patient as he watched the wilderness creatures, he never tired of tnb 
forest. It was said that he could creep up to the nest of a wild duel! 
reach under the bird, take out an egg to examine it and then put 
it back without arousing a sound of protest. He loved the freedom 
and the simplicity of life in the woods, and, never guil^ of senti- 
mentali^, he wrote about nature with humor and with a unique 
blend of attachment and detachment. 

Not for him the well-ordered garden of the English eighteenth 
century. There was nothing pastoral about Thoreau’s view of na- 
ture. He was a poet of the woods rather than of the meadow and 
neat hedgerow. As he expressed it, nature was “a greater and more 
perfect art.” He thought that man should be interested in the ele- 
mental. Buildings should not have ornamentation for the sake of 
ornament, for in nature nothing was superfluous. Function dictated 
form and form beauty. What piece of sculpture was more graceful 
than a pine? As he watched Walden Pond he noted that in its 
crystalline purity “the body of the bather appears of an alabaster 
wUteness, still more unnatural, which as the lines are magnified and 
distorted withal, produces a monstrous effect, making it fit studies 
for a Michelangelo.” 

THE LIFE OF INDEPENDENCE 

T WENT TO THE WOODS because I wished to live deliberately, to 

front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn 
what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I 
had not lived.” So Thoreau explained his move to Walden. For 
two years he lived beside the pond, reflecting on nature, on life 
and on literature. When he returned to town he brought back with 
him several notebooks crammed with his observations and he had 
also fimshed the first draft of an account of a trip he and his 

204 



brother John had made some ei^t years earlier. His Mends were 
delighted with this manuscript which he called A Week on the 
Concord and Merrimack Rivers, but he was unable to find a pub- 
lisher willing to risk capital by brining out random observations on 
life and literature by an unlmown author. In 1849 Thoreau pub- 
lished the book at Us own expense and, to bis disappointment, it 
sold but two himdred copies. In 1854, Walden appeared. After 
that, although he wrote much, he published little. His journals com- 
prise thirty-two volumes, but only Walden and Week and a few 
essays were printed during his lifetime. Excursions (1863), The 
Maine Woods (1864), Cape Cod (1865) and A Yankee in Canada 
(1866) were edited posthumously from his papers and journals. 

In politics Thoreau wholeheartedly subscribed to the Jeffersonian 
ideas that “that government is best which governs least.” And Tho-' 
reau carried the dictum to its logical extreme in his essay, “Civil 
Disobedience,” in which he describes the night he spent in jail for 
non-payment of his poll tax. Thoreau had been jailed shortly before 
he set out for Walden. To his great disgust his aunt paid the fine, 
thus largely obscuring the point of his protest. For Thoreau was 
taking a stand against slavery. Like many northerners he viewed 
the Mexican War as a political maneuver designed to extend the 
slave-holding territory of the United States. In refusing to pay the 
tax he was also refusing to contribute to the support of die war. 
Years later, Mahatma Gandhi was to find in “Civil Disobedience” his 
method of protesting against British control of India; Gandhi’s 
passive-resistance movement was Thoreau’s civil disobedience in 
action. 


THOREAU DEFENDS JOHN BROWN 

Thoreau met John Brown when the firebrand abolitionist visited 
Concord. To Thoreau, who believed above all in the freedom of the 
individual, slavery was an indefensible institution. When John Brown 
was captured after his brave but ill-advised and ill-fated raid on 
Harpers Ferry, Thoreau was one of the first publicly to come to his 
defense. He scheduled a talk in the Concord Vestry, but the vestry- 
men were timorous about having their hall used for so controversial 
a speech. They were equally afraid not to allow him to speak, and 
they compromised by leaving the key to the building where he 
would certainly find it On Sunday night, October 30, 1859, Thoreau 
rang the bell to summon his audience, opened the hall, laid the fire 

205 




Hbniy David Th<»eau, who foug^it to fveserve nature 
frcHn tte ravages of man. 



and arranged the seats. Tiwn he delivered to a small and not overly 
enthusiastic audience “A nea for Captain John Brown.” In No- 
vembn he repeated the address in Boston before a larger crowd. 
Thoreau’s eloquence was not enou^ to save John Brown, who was 
hanged on Dewmber 2, 1859. 

Thoreau’s health then began to fail and he was stricken vnth 
tuberculosis when he was about forty. In 1861 he traveled to Miime- 
sota in a vain hope that the cooler dimate might effect a cure. He 
returned to Concord to face his death with characteristic calm. 
When his Aunt Maria asked, “Henry, have you made your peace 
with God?” He replied, “Why, Aunt, I didn’t know we had ever 
quarreled.” On May 6, 1862, he died. 

WALDEN: THE GREAT EXPERIMENT 

“I do not propose to write an ode to dejection, but to brag as 
lustily as Chanticleer in the morning, standing on his roost, if only 
to wake my neighbors up.” So Thoreau explained his purpose. 
Walden, or Life in the Woods, as he subtitled it, was designed to 
make men aware of the dangers of becoming needlessly absorbed 
in the complexities of the emerging industrial age. 

The important thing about Walden was not the forest or the 
crystalline pond, but the contemplative life Thoreau was able to 
enjoy there. And the pond, with its clear, cool, fresh water, be- 
comes a poetic symbol of that life. At Walden Thoreau recorded 
in his journals his thoughts on nature, reading, philosophy and re- 
ligion, and from those notes he compiled his book. Indeed one of the 
great charms of Walden is the deli^tfully unpredictable way in 
which Thoreau leaped from particular observation to a generaUred 
conc^t. One moment he is describing a red squirrd ot a piclmml so 
precisely that the reader can see the animal’s bushy tail and the 
fish’s shiny scales. The next moment the habits of the creatures have 
reminded him of some precept from Oriental {^osophy. As he 
watdied the exciting battle of the red and black ants, he thought 
men and their wars. “I felt for the rest of the day,” he wrote, “as 
if I had my feelings excited and harrowed by witnesidng the strug^, 
the ferodQr and carnage, of a human battle befme my door.” 

Wtdden begins widi Ihotteau’s arrival in the woods and cmidudes 
whmi he returns to Ccmcord. As the author relates hn adventures,' 
the reader learns how he Inifit his house, how he made bread, dug 
his garden, cherished sdhnde and ^oried in die arrival cff spring. 

207 



There are loving descriptions of the pond, amusing accounts of 
the hooting of the owl and of the antics of a woodcock and her 
brood. When, one winter day, men appeared at the pond to cut 
the ice for an ice company, Thoreau was at once reminded of the 
far-off places to which the ships would cany Walden ice. “Thus it 
appears,” he wrote, “that the inhabitants of Charleston and New 
C^leans; of Madras and Bombay and Calcutta, drink at my well.” 

THE EMPHASIS ON SIMPLICITY j 

It was Thoreau’s belief that men bother far too much with super- 
fluities. He had an immense scorn for sham and convention and ror 
emptiness. He insisted that the important thing for man was Aat he 
observe reality and ignore the trivial. Simplicity is the keynote 
Walden. Instead of worrying about the non-essential, man should 
develop his own potentialities. His disdain for material gadgets ex- 
tended to a disdain for mental clutter and pietistic moralizing. His 
scorn for philanthropy and do-gooders may at first seem harsh, but 
Thoreau made the distinction between true goodness and the h)^po- 
critical self-ri^teousness of so many of those who devoted themselves 
to “uplifting” the less fortunate. With all his soul he detested the 
pharisees of this world. “A man is not a good num to me because he 
will feed me if I should be starving or warm me if I should be 
freeang,” he declared. He had no desire to be either slave or master. 
He wanted to be independent, to go his own way and to tend to 
his own affairs. 

Thoreau’s business has been described as an attempt not “to change 
the world but to solve the problem of living in it.” With con- 
siderable humor he recorded his living expenses at Walden down to 
the last mill. But he also recorded his spiritual progress in meticulous 
detail. It is in almost businesslike terms that he described his re- 
lation to the forest and its creatures. They were his acres and his 
herds; by obsendng them carefully he was able to reap a good crop 
and show a profit. Thoreau brought to his moral and spiritual ac- 
counts the same indomitable energy and vaulting imagnation that 
many of his contemporaries devoted to the construction of railroads 
and the opening of the West. 

He saw no valid reason for men to be rushing off in all directiom, 
pursuing gain or fame. For Thoreau measured cost not by material 
standards but by the amount of the person’s life that went into an 
nfiiiMfaMfig “Men say,” he remarked, “tiiat a stitch in time saves 

208 



nine, and so they take a thousand stitches today to save nina to- 
morrow. As for work, we haven’t any of consequence. We have the 
Saint Vitus’ dance and cannot possibly keep our heads stOl.” 

THOREAU’S PROSE STYLE 

As a writer of English prose, Thoreau can hardly be overpraised. 
His writing is like New England speech at its best — ^tart, dry, hu- 
morous and exact. His is a lean, intelligent and pointed style, well- 
suited to what Thoreau called his “simple, cheap and homely themes.” 
At times it is almost a nervous style, but its tensions are always off- 
set by passages of calm, contemplative description. Thoreau was 
fond of peppering his writing with bits of verse, either of his own 
composition or selected from his favorite seventeenth-century Eng- 
lish poets. Thoreau himself was a far better poet in prose than hd' 
was in verse. His strong and subtle wit adds zest to his work. Al- 
though he is always in earnest, he never takes himself solemnly and 
he could not be pompous if he tried. 

Walden is laced with little jokes, figures of speech, conceits and 
plays on words. An example is the elaborate conceit he worked out 
around the word “sleepers” as used for railroad ties in the chapter 
“Where I Lived and >^at I Lived for.” Or again, there is the terse 
summation of his views on philanthropy, “Rescue the drowning 
and tie your shoestrings.” His aphorisms have a pungent flavor, as 
if the very essence of rural common sense were concentrated in 
them. 

Thoreau carried his immense learning lightly. Although he made 
frequent references to abstruse Oriental texts it was never as a mere 
parade of his erudition. His references point up his thought and are 
not display pieces. And it is indeed fitting that he who so loved the 
philosophy of India should have helped to influence the growth of 
that land into an independent nation. 


209 






Economy 

W HEN I WROTE the following pages, or rather the bulk of them, 
1 lived alone in the woods, a mile from any neighbor, in a 
house which I had built myself, on the shore of Walden Pond, in 
Concord, Massachusetts, and earned my living by the labor of my 
hands only. I lived there two years and two months. At present 1 
am a sojourner in civilized life again. 

I should not obtrude my affairs so much on the notice of my read- 
ers if very particular inquiries had not been made by my townsmen 
concerning my mode of life, whidi some. would call impertinent, 
though they do not appear to me at all impertinent, but, considering 
the circumstances, very natural and pertinent. Some have asked 
what I got to eat; if 1 did not feel lonesome; if I was not afraid and 
the like. Others have been curious to learn what portion of my in- 
come 1 devoted to charitable purposes and some, who have large 
families, how many poor children I maintained. I will therefore 
ask those of my readers who feel no particular interest in me to par- 
don me if I imdertake to answer some of these questions in this 
book. In most books, the I, or first person, is omitted; in this it will 
be retained; that, in respect to egotism, is the main difference. We 
commoody do not remember that it is, after dl, always die first per- 
scm that is speaking. I should not talk so much about mysdf if there 
were anybody dse whom I knew as wdl. Unfortunatefy, 1 am con- 
fined to this theme by the narrowness of my exper^ice. Moreover, 
I, <m my side, require of evoy writer, first or last, a ^ple and sin- 

211 


Henry David Thoreau 
cere account of his own life and not merely what he has heard of 
other men’s lives; some such account as he would send to his 
kindred from a distant land; for if he has lived sincerely, it most 
have been in a distant land to me. Perhaps these pages are more 
particularly addressed to poor students. As for the rest of my read- 
ers, they will accept such portions as apply to them. I trust that none 
will stretch the seams in putting on &e coat, for it may do good 
service to him whom it fits. . . • / 

I would fain say something, not so much concerning the Chimse 
and Sandwich Islanders as you who read these pages, who are said 
to live in New England; something about your condition, especiaUy 
your outward condition or circumstances in this world, in this towp, 
what it is, whether it is necessary that it be as bad as it is, whethdr 
it cannot be improved as well as not. I have traveled a good deal 
in Concord and everywhere, in shops and ofiices and fields, the in- 
habitants have appeared to me to be doing penance in a thousand 
remarkable ways. What I have heard of Brahmans sitting exposed 
to four fires and looking in the face of the sun; or hanging sus- 
pended, with their heads downward, over fiames; or looking at the 
heavens over their shoulders “until it becomes impossible for them 
to resume their natural position, while from the twist of the neck 
nothing but liquids can pass into the stomach”; or dwelling, chained 
for life, at the foot of a tree; or measuring with their bodies, like 
caterpillars, the breadth of vast empires; or standing on one leg on 
the tops of pillars — even these forms of conscious penance are 
hardly more incredible and astonishing than the scenes which I 
daily witness. The twelve labors of Hercules were trifling in com- 
parison with those which my neighbors have undertaken; for they 
were only twelve and had an end; but I could never see that these 
men slew or captured any monster or finished any labor. They have 
no friend lolaus to bum with a hot iron the root of the hydra’s 
head, but as soon as one head is crushed, two spring up. 

I see young men, my townsmen, whose misfortune it is to have 
inherited farms, houses, bams, cattle and farming tools; for these 
are more easily acquired than got rid of. Better if they had been 
bom in the open pasture and suckled by a wolf, that they might 
have seen with clearer eyes what field they were called to labor in. 
Who made them serfs of the soil? Why should they eat their sixty 
acres, when man is condemned to eat only his peck of dirt? Why 
* Friend of Hercules 

212 



Walden 

should they begin digg^g their graves as soon as they are bom? 
They have got to live a man’s life, pushing all these things before 
them, and get on as well as they can. How many a poor immortal 
soul have I met well-nigh crushed and smothered under its load, 
creeping down the road of life, pushing before it a bam seventy-five 
feet by forty, its Augean stables never cleansed, and one hundred 
acres of land, tillage, mowing, pasture and wood lot! The portion- 
less, who struggle with no such unnecessary inherited encum- 
brances, find it labor enough to subdue and cultivate a few cubic 
feet of flesh. . . . 

Most men, even in this comparatively free country, through 
mere ignorance and mistake, are so occupied with the factitious 
cares and superfluously coarse labors of life that its finer fruits can- 
not be plucked by them. Their fingers, from excessive toil, are too ‘ 
clumsy and tremble too much for that. Actually, the laboring man 
has not leisure for a true integrity day by day; he cannot afford to 
sustain the manliest relations to men; his labor would be depreciated 
in the market. He has no time to be anything but a machine. How 
can he remember well his ignorance — ^which his growth requires — 
who has so often to use his knowledge? We should feed and clothe 
him gratuitously sometimes, and recruit him with our cordials, be- 
fore we judge of him. The finest qualities of our nature, like the 
bloom on fruits, can be preserved only by the most delicate han- 
dling. Yet we do not treat ourselves nor one another thus tenderly. 

Some of you, we all know, are poor, find it hard to live, are some- 
times, as it were, gasping for breath. I have no doubt that some of 
you who read this book are unable to pay for all the dinners which 
you have actually eaten, or for the coats and shoes which are fast 
wearing or are already worn out, and have come to this page to 
spend borrowed or stolen time, robbing your creditors of an hour. 
It is very evident what mean and sneaking lives many of you live, 
for my sight has been whetted by experience; always on the limits, 
trying to get into business and trying to get out of debt, a very an- 
cient slough, called by the Latins aes alienum, another’s brass, for 
some of their coins were made of brass; still living and dying and 
buried by this other’s brass; always promising to pay, promising to 
pay, tomorrow, and dying today, insolvent; seeking to curry favor, 
to get custom, by how many modes, only not state-prison offenses; 
lying, flattering, voting, contracting yourselves into a nutshell of ci- 
t^ty, or dilating into an atmosphere of thin and vaporous generos- 

213 



Henry David Thoreau 
ity, that you may persuade your neighbor to let you make his shoes 
or his hat or his coat or his carriage, or import his groceries for him; 
making yourselves sick, that you may lay up something against a 
sick day, something to be tucked away in an old diest or in a stock- 
ing behind the plastering or, more safely, in the brick bank; no mat- 
ter where, no matter how much or how little. 

I sometimes wonder that we can be so frivolous, I may almost 
say, as to attend to the gross but somewhat foreign form of saM- 
tude called Negro slavery, there are so many keen and subtle nms- 
ters that enslave both North and South. It is hard to have a Soum- 
em overseer; it is worse to have a Northern one; but worst of ml 
when you are the slave driver of yourself. Talk of a divinity in m^! 
Look at the teamster on the highway, wending to market by day 
night; does any divinity stir wiAin him? His highest duty to fodder 
and water his horses! What is his destiny to him compared with the 
shipping interests? Does not he drive for Squire Make-a-stir? How 
go^ke, how immortal is he? See how he cowers and sneaks, how 
vaguely all the day he fears, not being immortal nor divine, but the 
slave and prisoner of his own opinion of himself, a fame won by his 
own deeds. Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own 
private opinion. What a man thinks of himself, that it is which de- 
termines, or rather indicates, his fate. Self-emancipation even 
in the West Indian provinces of the fancy and imagination — ^what 
Wilberforce is there to bring that about? Think, also, of the ladies 
of the land weaving toilet cushions against the last day, not to be- 
tray too green an interest in their fates! As if you could kill time 
wiAout injuring eternity. 

The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. What is called 
resignation is conjSrmed desperation. From the desperate city you go 
into the desperate country and have to console yourself with the 
bravery of minks and muskrats. A stereotyped but unconscious de- 
spair is concealed even under what are called the games and amuse- 
ments of mankind. There is no play in them, for this comes after 
work. But it is a characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate 
things. ... 

We mig^t try our lives by a thousand simple tests; as, for in- 
stance, that the same sun which ripens my beans illumines at once 
a Systran (rf earths like ours. If I had remranbered diis, it would 
have prevented some mistakes. This was not the li^t in which I 
* WlUam M^berforce, English abdittonist 

214 



Waldsn 

hoed them. The stars are the apexes of what wonderful triai^esl 
What distant and different beings in the various mansions of the 
universe are contemplating the same one at the same moment! Na- 
ture and human life are as various as our several constitutions. Who 
shall say what prospect life offers to another? Could a greater mir- 
acle take place than for us to look through each other’s eyes for an 
instant? We should live in all the ages of tiie world in an hour; aye, 
in all the woiids of the ages. History, poetry, mythology! I know 
of no reading of another’s experience so startling and informing as 
this would be. 

The greater part of what my nei^bors call good I believe in my 
soul to be bad, and if 1 repent of anything, it is very likely to be my 
good behavior. What demon possessed me that I behaved so well? 
You may say the wisest thing you can, old man — you who have " 
lived seventy years, not without honor of a kind — hear an irresist- 
ible voice which invites me away from all that. One generation aban- 
dons the enterprises of another like stranded vessels. 

I think that we may safely trust a good deal more than we do. 
We may waive just so much care of ourselves as we honestly be- 
stow elsewhere. Nature is as well adapted to our weakness as to our 
strength. The incessant anxiety and strain of some is a well-nigh in- 
curable form of disease. We are made to exaggerate the importance 
of what work we do; and yet how much is not done by us! or, what 
if we had been taken sick? How ^d^ant we are! determined not to 
live by faith if we can avoid it; all the day long on the alert, at 
niglit we unwillingly say our prayers and commit ourselves to un- 
certainties. So thorougiUy and sincerely are we compelled to live, 
reverencing our life and denying the possibility of change. This is the 
only way, we say; but there are as many ways as there can be drawn 
radii from one center. All change is a miracle to contemplate; but it 
is a mirade which is taking place every instant Confudus said, “To 
know that we know what we know, and that we do not know what 
we do not know, that is true knowledge.’’ When cme man has re- 
duced a fact of tite imagination to be a fact to his understanding, I 
foresee tiliat all men will at length establish their lives on that basis. 

Let us conskler for a moment what most oi tiie trouUe and anxiety 
which 1 have referred to is about, and how mudi it is necessary that 
we be timibled, or at least cardul. It would be some advantage to 
live a primitive and frontior life, thou^ in the midst ot an outward 
dvilizatitm, if only to team what are the ^oss necessaries of life and 

215 



Henry David Thoreau 
what methods have been taken to obtain them; or even to look over 
the old daybooks of the merchants, to see what it was that men most 
commonly bought at the stores, what they stored, that is, what are 
the grossest groceries. For the improvements of ages have had but 
little influence on the essential laws of man’s existence: as our skele- 
tons, probably, are not to be distinguished from those of our an- 
cestors. 

By the words, necessary of life. I mean whatever, of all that man 
obtains by his own exertions, has been from the first, or from long 
use has become, so important to human life that few, if any, whemer 
from savageness or poverty or philosophy, ever attempt to do wim- 
out it. To many creatures there is in this sense but one necessary W 
life, food. To the bison of the prairie it is a few inches of palataUe 
grass, with water to drink; unless he seeks the shelter of the forest or 
Ae mountain’s shadow. None of the brute creation requires more 
than food and shelter. The necessaries of life for man in this climate 
may, accurately enough, be distributed under the several heads of 
food, shelter, clothing, and fuel; for not till we have secured these 
are we prepared to entertain the true problems of life with freedom 
and a prospect of success. Man has invented not only houses, but 
clothes and cooked food; and possibly from the accidental discovery 
of the warmth of fire, and the consequent use of it, at first a luxury, 
arose the present necessity to sit by it. We observe cats and dogs ac- 
quiring the same second nature. By proper shelter and clothing we 
le^timately retain our own internal heat; but with an excess of 
these, or of fuel, that is, with an external heat greater than our own 
internal, may not cookery properly be said to begjin? Darwin, the 
naturalist, says of the inhabitants of Tierra del Fuego, that while his 
own party, who were well clothed and sitting close to a fire, were far 
from too warm, these naked savages, who were farther off, were ob- 
served, to his great surprise, “to be streaming with perspiration at 
undergoing such a roasting.” So, we are told, the New Hollander * 
goes naked with impunity, while the European shivers in his clothes. 
Is it impossible to combine the hardiness of these savages with the 
intellectualness of the civilized man? According to Liebig,t man’s 
body is a stove, and food the fuel which keeps up the internal com- 
bustion in the lungs. In cold weather we eat more, in warm less. The 
animal heat is the result of a slow combustion, and disease and death 

* Australian aborigine 
t Baron Justus von Li^ig, German chemist 

216 



Walden 

take place when this is too rapid; or for want of fuel, or from some de- 
fect in the draft, the fire goes out. Of course the vital heat is not to be 
confounded with fire; but so mudi for analogy. It appears, therefore, 
from the above list, that the expression, animal life, is nearly synony- 
mous with the expression, animal heat; for while food may be re- 
garded as the fuel which keeps up the fire within us — and fuel serves 
only to prepare that food or to increase the warmth of our bodies by 
addition from without — shelter and clothing also serve only to retain 
the heat thus generated and absorbed. 

The grand necessity, then, for our bodies, is to keep warm, to 
keep the vital heat in us. What pains we accordingly take, not only 
with our food and clothing and shelter, but with our beds, which are 
our nightclothes, robbing the nests and breasts of birds to prepare 
this shelter within a shelter, as the mole has its bed of grass and ' 
leaves at the end of its burrow! The poor man is wont to complain 
that this is a cold world; and to cold, no less physical than social, we 
refer directly a great part of our ailments. The summer, in some 
climates, makes possible to man a sort of Elysian life. Fuel, except 
to cook his food, is then unnecessary; the sun is his fire, and many 
of the fruits are sufficiently cooked by its rays; while food generally 
is more various, and more easOy obtained, and clothing and shelter 
are wholly or half unnecessary. At the present day and in this coun- 
try, as I &d by my own experience, a few implements, a knife, an 
ax, a spade, a wheelbarrow, etc., and for the studious, lamplight, 
stationery, and access to a few books rank next to necessaries, and 
can all be obtained at a trifiing cost. Yet some, not wise, go to the 
other side of the globe, to barbarous and unhealthy re^ons, and de- 
vote themselves to trade for ten or twenty years, in order that they 
may live — ^that is, keep comfortably warm — and die in New England 
at last. The luxuriously rich are not simply kept comfortably warm, 
but unnaturally hot; as I implied before, ffiey are cooked, of course 
d la mode. 

Most of the luxuries, and many of the so-called comforts of life, 
are not only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the eleva- 
tion of m ankin d. With respect to luxuries and comforts, the wisest 
have ever lived a more simple and meager life than the poor. The 
andent philosophers, Chinese, Hindu, Persian and Greek, were a 
dass than which none has been poorer in outward riches, none so 
rich in inward. We know not much about them. It is remarkable 
that we know so much of thmn as we do. The same is true of the mtne 



Henry David Thoreau 
modem refonners and benefactors of their race. None can be an im- 
partial or wise observer of human life but from the vantage ground 
of what we should call voluntary pover^. Of a life of luxury the fruit 
is luxury, whether in agriculture or commerce or literature or art 
There are nowadays professors of philosophy, but not philosophers. 
Yet it is admirable to profess because it was once admirable to live. 
To be a philosopher is not merely to have subtle thoughts, nor even 
to found a school, but so to love wisdom as to live accorthng td its 
dictates, a life of simplicity, independence, magnanimi^ and tmst. 
It is to solve some of the problems of life, not only theoretically, put 
practically. The success of great scholars and thinkers is commo^y 
a courtier-like success, not kingly, not manly. They make shift Ito 
live merely by conformity, practically as their fathers did, and are 
in no sense the progenitors of a nobler race of men. But why do 
men degenerate ever? What makes families run out? What is the 
nature of the luxury which enervates and destroys nations? Are we 
sure that there is none of it in our own lives? The philosopher is in 
advance of his age even in the outward form of his life. He is not 
fed, sheltered, clothed, warmed like his contemporaries. How can a 
man be a philosopher and not maintain his vital heat by better meth- 
ods than other men? 

When a man is warmed by the several modes which I have de- 
scribed, what does he want next? Surely not more warmth of the 
same kind, as more and richer food, larger and more splendid 
houses, finer and more abundant clothing, more numerous, incessant 
and hotter fires, and the like. When he has obtained those things 
which are necessary to life, there is another alternative than to ob- 
tain the superfluities; and that is, to adventure on life now, his va- 
cation from humbler toil having commenced. The soil, it appears, is 
suited to the seed, for it has sent its radicle downward, and it may 
now send its shoot upward also with confidence. Why has man rooted 
himsdf thus firmly in the earth, but that he may rise in the same 
proportion into the heavens above? For the nobler plants are valued 
for the fruit they bear at last in the mr and U^t, far from the ground, 
and are not treated like the humbler esculents, which, though they 
may be biennials, are cultivated only till they have pnfected their 
root, and often cut down at top for this purpose, so that most would 
not know them in their flowering season. 

I do not mean to presmbe rules to strong and valiant natures, 
who vdll mind thdr own affairs whether in heaven or hell, and p«- 

218 



Walden 

chance build more magnificently and spend more lavishly than the 
richest, without ever impoverishing themselves, not knowing how 
they live — ^if, indeed, there are any such, as has been dreamed; nor 
to those who find their encouragement and inspiration in precisely 
the present condition of things, and cherish it with the fondness and 
enthusiasm of lovers — ^and, to some extent, I reckon myself in this 
number; I do not speak to those who are well employed, in whatever 
circumstances, and they know whether they are well employed or 
not — but mainly to the mass of men who are discontented and idly 
complaining of the hardness of their lot or of the times, when they 
mi^t improve them. There are some who complain most energefi- 
caUy and inconsolably of any, because they are, as they say, doing 
their duty. I also have in my mind that seemingly wealthy, but most 
terribly impoverished class of all, who have accumulated dross, but 
know not how to use it or get rid of it, and thus have forged their 
own golden or silver fetters. 

If I should attempt to tell how I have desired to spend my life in 
years past, it would probably surprise those of my readers who are 
somewhat acquainted with its actual history; it would certainly as- 
tonish those who know nothing about it. 1 will only hint at some of 
the enterprises which I have cherished. 

In any weather, at any hour of the day or nig^t, I have been anx- 
ious to improve the nick of time, and notch it on my stick too; to 
stand on the meeting of two eternities, the past and future, which is 
precisely the present moment; to toe that line. You will pardon some 
obscurities, for there are more secrets in my trade than in most 
men’s, and yet not volimtarily kept, but inseparable from its very 
nature. I would ^adly tell all that I know about it, and never paint 
“No Admittance” on my gate. 

I long ago lost a hound, a bay horse and a turtledove, and am 
still on their trail. Many are the travelers I have spoken to concern- 
ing them, describing their tracks and what calls they answered to. I 
have met one or two who had heard the hound and the tramp of the 
horse, and even seen the dove disappear behind a cloud, and they 
seemed as anxious to recover them as if they had lost them them- 
selves. 

To anticipate not the sunrise and the dawn merely but, if possible, 
Nature herself! How many mornings, summer and winter, before 
yet any nei^bor was stirring about his business, have 1 been about 

219 



Henry David Thoreau 
mine! No doubt many of my townsmen have met me returning from 
this enterprise, farmers starting for Boston in the twilight or wood- 
choppers going to their work. It is true I never assisted the sim ma- 
terially in his rising but, doubt not, it was of the last importance only 
to be present at it. 

So many autumn, aye, and winter days, spent outside the town, 
trying to hear what was in the wind, to hear and carry it express! I 
well-nigh sunk all my capital in it, and lost my own breath in/the bar- 
gain, running in the face of it. If it had concerned either ofl the po- 
litical parties, depend upon it, it would have appeared in HieVrazette 
with the earliest intelligence. At other times watching from uie ob- 
servatory of some cliff or tree, to telegraph any new arrival; or wait- 
ing at evening on the hilltops for the sky to fall, that I might catch 
something, though 1 never caught much, and that, manna-wise, 
would dissolve again in the sun. 

For a long time I was reporter to a journal, of no very wide circu- 
lation, whose editor has never yet seen fit to print the bulk of my 
contributions, and, as is too common with writers, I got only my 
labor for my pains. However, in this case my pains were thw own 
reward. 

For many years I was self-appointed inspector of snowstorms and 
rainstorms and did my duty faithfully; surveyor, if not of highways, 
then of forest paths and all across-lot routes, keeping them open, and 
ravines bridged and passable at all seasons, where the public heel 
had testified to their utility. 

I have looked after the wild stock of the town, which give a faith- 
ful herdsman a good deal of trouble by leaping fences; and I have 
had an eye to the unfrequented nooks and comers of the farm; 
though I did not always know whether Jonas or Solomon worked in 
a particular field today; that was none of my business. I have wa- 
tered the red huckleberry, the sand cherry and the nettle tree, the 
red pine and the black ash, the white -grape and the yellow violet, 
which migiit have withered else in dry seasons. 

In short, I went on thus for a long time (I may say it without 
boasting), faithfully minding my business, till it became more and 
more evident that my townsmen would not after all admit me into 
the list of town officers, nor make my place a sinecure with a mod- 
erate allowance. My accounts, which I can swear to have kept faith- 
-I b j ayf,, indeed, never got audited, still less accepted, still less 
■ '' wpvcr, I have not set my heart on fliat. . . . 


220 






Walden 

Finding that my fellow citizens were not likely to offer me any 
room in Ae courthouse, or any curacy or living anywhere else, but 
I must shift for myself, I turned my face more exclusively than ever 
to the woods, where I was better known. I determined to go into 
business at once, and not wait to acquire the usual capital, using 
such slender means as I had already got. My purpose in going to 
Walden Pond was not to live cheaply nor to live dearly there, but to 
transact some private business with the fewest obstacles; to be hin- 
dered from accomplishing which for want of a little common sense, 
a little enterprise and business talent, appeared not so sad as foolish. 

I have always endeavored to acquire strict business habits; they 
are indispensable to every man. If your trade is with the Celestid 
Empire, then some small countinghouse on the coast, in some Salem 
harbor, will be fixture enough. You will export such articles as the* 
country affords, purely native products, much ice and pine timber 
and a little granite, always in native bottoms. These will be good ven- 
tures. To oversee all the details yourself in person; to be at once pilot 
and captain, and owner and underwriter; to buy and sell and keep 
the accounts; to read every letter received, and write or read every 
letter sent; to superintend ^e discharge of imports ni^t and day; to 
be upon many parts of the coast almost at the same time — often the 
richest freight will be discharged upon a Jersey shore; to be your 
own telegraph, unweariedly sweeping the horizon, speaking to all 
passing vessels bound coastwise; to keep up a steady dispatch of 
commodities, for the supply of such a distant and exorbitant market; 
to keep yourself informed of the state of the markets, prospects of 
war and peace everywhere, and anticipate the tendencies of trade 
and civilization — taking advantage of the results of all exploring ex- 
peditions, using new passages and all improvements in navigation; 
charts to be studied, the position of reefs and new lights and buoys 
to be ascertained, and ever and ever, the logarithmic tables to ^ 
corrected, for by the error of some calculator the vessel often splits 
upon a rock that should have reached a friendly pier — ^there is the 
untold fate of La P^rouse; * universal science to be kept pace with, 
studying the lives of all great discoverers and navigators, great ad- 
venturers and merchants, from Hanno t and the Phoenicians down to 
our day; in fine, account of stock to be taken from time to time, to 
know how you stand. It is a labor to task the faculties of a man — such 

* French expl(»«r lost in the Pacific 
t Carthaginian navigatw 

221 



Henry David Thoreau 
problems of profit and loss, of interest, of tare and tret, and ganging 
of all kinds in it, as demand a universal knowledge. 

I have thought that Walden Pond would be a good place for busi- 
ness, not solely on account of the railroad and the ice trade; it offers 
advants^s which it may not be good policy to divulge; it is a good 
port and a good foundation. No Neva marshes to be filled; thou^ 
you must everywhere build on piles of your own driving. It is said 
that a flood ti^, with a westerly wind-and ice in the Neva, Would 
sweep St. Petersburg from the face of the earth. 1 

As this business was to be entered into without the usual capital, 
it may not be easy to conjecture where those means, that will still be 
indispensable to every such undertaking, were to be obtained. \ As 
for clothing, to come at once to the practical part of the question, 
perhaps we are led oftener by the love of novelty and a regard for 
the opinions of men, in procuring it, than by a true utility. Let him 
who has work to do recollect that the object of clothing is, first, to re- 
tain the vital heat and, secondly, in this state of society, to cover 
nakedness, and he may judge how much of any necessary or impor- 
tant work may be accomplished without adding to his wardrobe. 
Kings and queens who wear a suit but once, though made by some 
tailor or dressmaker to their Majesties, cannot know the comfort of 
wearing a suit that fits. They are no better than wooden horses to 
hang the clean clothes on. Every day our garments become more as- 
similated to ourselves, receiving the impress of the wearer’s charac- 
ter, untfl we hesitate to lay them aside without such delay and medi- 
cal appliances and some such solemnity even as our bodies. No man 
ever stood the lower in my estimation for having a patch in his 
dothes; yet I am sure that there is greater anxie^, commonly, to 
have fasMonable, or at least clean and unpatched clothes, than to 
have a sound conscience. But even if the rent is not mended, periiaps 
the worst vice betrayed is improvidence. I sometimes try my ac- 
quaintances by such tests as this — ^Who could wear a patch, or two 
extra seams only, over the knee? Most behave as if they believed 
that their prospects for life woidd be ruined if they should do it. It 
would be easier for them to hobble to town with a broken leg than 
with a broken pantaloon. Often if an accident happens to a gentle- 
man’s legs, they can be mended; but if a similar accident happens to 
the legs of his pantaloons, there is no help for it; for he considers not 
what is truly respectable, but what is respected. We know but few 
men, a great many coats and breedies. Dress a sc^iecrow in your last 

222 



Walden 

shift, you standing shiftless by, who would not soonest salute the 
scarecrow? Passing a cornfield the other day, close by a hat and coat 
on a stake, 1 recognized die owner of the farm. He was only a little 
more weather-beaten than when I saw him last. I have heard of a 
dog that barked at every stranger who approached his master’s 
premises widi clothes on, but was easily quieted by a naked thief. 

It is an interesting question how far men would retain their rela- 
tive rank if they were ^vested of their clothes. Could you, in such a 
case, tell surely of any company of civilized men which belonged to 
the most respected class? l^en Madam Pfeiffer,* in her adventur- 
ous travels around the world, from east to west, had got so near 
home as Asiatic Russia, she says that she felt the necessity of wear- 
ing other than a traveling dress when she went to meet the authori- 
ties, for she “was now in a civilized country, where . . . people are' 
judged by their clothes.” Even in our democratic New En^and 
towns the accidental possession of wealth, and its manifestation in 
dress and equipage alone, obtain for the possessor almost universal 
respect. But they who yield such respect, numerous as they are, are 
so far heathen, and need to have a missionary sent to them. Besides, 
clothes introduced sewing, a kind of work which you may call end- 
less; a woman’s dress, at least, is never done. 

A man who has at length found something to do will not need to 
get a new suit to do it in; for him the old will do, that has lain dusty 
in the garret for an indeterminate period. Old shoes will serve a hero 
longer than they have served his valet — ^if a hero ever has a valet; 
bare feet are ol^r than shoes, and he can make them do. Only they 
who go to soirees and legislative halls must have new coats, coats to 
change as often as the man changes in them. But if my jacket and 
trousers, my hat and shoes are fit to worship God in, they will do; 
will they not? Who ever saw his old clothes, his old coat, actually 
worn out, resolved into its primitive elements so that it was not a 
deed of charity to bestow it on some poor boy, by him perchance to 
be bestowed on some poorer still, or shall we say richer, who could 
do with less? I say, beware of all enterprises that require new clothes, 
and not rather a new wearer of clothes. If there is not a new man, 
how can the new clothes be made to fit? If you have any enterprise 
before you, try it in your old clothes. All men want not something to 
do with, but something to do, or rather something to be. Perhaps we 
tiiould never procure a new suit, however ragged or dirty the old, 
* Ida Laura Pfeiffer twice traveled around the world. 


223 



Henry David Thoreau 
until we have so conducted, so enterprised or sailed in some way, 
that we feel like new men in the old, and that to retain it would be like 
keeping new wine in old bottles. Our moulting season, like that of 
the fowls, must be a crisis in our lives. The loon retires to solitary 
ponds to spend it. Thus also the snake casts its slou^, and the cater- 
pillar its wormy coat, by an internal industry and expansion; for 
clothes are but our outmost cuticle and mortal coil. Otherwise we 
shall be found sailing under false colors; 'and be inevitably cashibred 
at last by our own opinion, as well as that of mankind. I 

We don garment after garment, as if we grew like exogenous 
plants by addition without. Our outside and often thin and fano^ 
clothes are our epidermis, or false skin, which partakes not of 
life, and may be stripped off here and there without fatal injury; our 
thicker garments, constantly worn, are our cellular integument, or 
cortex; but our shirts are our liber, or true bark, which cannot be re- 
moved without girdling and so destroying the man. 1 believe that all 
races at some seasons wear something equivalent to the shirt. It is 
desirable that a man be clad so simply that he can lay his hands on 
himself in the dark, and that he live in all respects so compactly and 
preparedly that, if an enemy take the town, he can, like the old phi- 
losopher, walk out the gate empty-handed without anxiety. While 
one thick garment is, for most purposes, as good as three thin 
ones, and cheap clothing can be obtained at prices really to suit cus- 
tomers; while a thick coat can be bougjit for five dollars, which will 
last as many years, thick pantaloons for two dollars, cowhide boots 
for a dollar and a half a pair, a summer hat for a quarter of a dollar, 
and a winter cap for sixty-two and a half cents, or a better be made 
at home at a nominal cost, where is he so poor that, clad in such a 
suit, oj his own earning, there will not be found wise men to do him 
reverence? . . . 

As for a shelter, 1 will not deny that this is now a necessary of life, 
though there are instances of men having done without it for long 
periods in colder countries than this. Samuel Laing says that “the 
Laplander in his skin dress, and in a skin bag which he puts over his 
head and shoulders, will sleep night after night on the snow ... in 
a degree of cold which would extinguish the life of one exposed to it 
in any woolen clothing.” He had seen them asleep thus. Yet he adds, 
“They are not hardier than other people.” But, probably, man did 
not live long on the earth without discovering the convenience which 
there is in a house, the domestic comforts, which phrase may have 

224 



Walden 

originally signified the satisfactions of the house more than of the fam- 
ily; though these must be extremely partial and occasional in those 
climates where the house is associated in our thoughts with winter or 
the rainy season chiefly, and two thirds of the year, except for a para- 
sol, is unnecessary. In our climate, in the summer, it was formerly al- 
most solely a covering at night. In the Indian gazettes a wigwam was 
the symbol of a day’s march, and a row of them cut or painted on the 
bark of a tree signified that so many times they had camped. Man was 
not made so large-limbed and robust but that he must seek to narrow 
his world, and wall in a space such as fitted him. He was at first bare 
and out-of-doors; but though this was pleasant enoug|h in serene and 
warm weather, by daylight, the rainy season and the winter, to say 
nothing of the torrid sun, would perhaps have nipped his race in the 
bud if he had not made haste to clothe himself with the shelter of a' 
house. Adam and Eve, according to the fable, wore the bower before 
other clothes. Man wanted a home, a place of warmth or comfort, first 
of physical warmth, then the warmth of the affections. 

We may imagine a time when, in the infancy of the human race, 
some enterprising mortal crept into a hollow in a rock for shelter. 
Every child begins the world again, to some extent, and loves to stay 
outdoors, even in wet and cold. It plays house, as well as horse, hav- 
ing an instinct for it. Who does not remember the interest with which, 
when young, he looked at shelving rocks or any approach to a cave? 
It was the natural yearning of that portion of our most primitive an- 
cestor which still survived in us. From the cave we have advanced 
to roofs of palm leaves, of bark and boughs, of linen woven and 
stretched, of grass and straw, of boards and shingles, of stones and 
tiles. At last, we know not what it is to live in the open air, and our 
lives are domestic in more senses than we think. From the hearth 
the field is a great distance. It would be well, perhaps, if we were to 
spend more of our days and nights without any obstruction between 
us and the celestial bodies, if the poet did not speak so much from 
under a roof, or the saint dwell there so long. Birds do not sing in 
caves, nor do doves cherish their innocence in dovecots. 

However, if one designs to construct a dwelling house, it behooves 
him to exercise a little Yankee shrewdness, lest after all he find him- 
self in a workhouse, a labyrinth without a clue, a museum, an alms- 
house, a prison or a splendid mausoleum instead. Consider first 
how slight a shelter is absolutely necessary. 1 have seen Penobscot 
Indians in this town living in tents of thin cotton doth, while the snow 

225 



Henry David Thoreau 
was nearly a foot deep around them, and I thou^t that they would 
be glad to have it deeper to keep out the wind. Formerly, when how 
to get my living honestly, with freedom left for my proper pursuits, 
was a question which vexed me even more than it does now, for un- 
fortunately I am become somewhat callous, I used to see a large 
box by the railroad, six feet long by three wide, in which the laborers 
locked up their tools at night; and it suggested to me that every man 
who was hard pushed mi^t get such<a«one for a dollar, and, having 
bored a few auger holes in it to admit the air at least, get into it (when 
it rained and at night, and hook down the lid, and so have freedom in 
his love, and in his soul be free. This did not appear the worst! nor 
by any means a despicable alternative. You could sit up as latp as 
you pleased, and, whenever you got up, go abroad without any l^d- 
lord or houselord dogging you for rent. Many a man is harassed to 
death to pay the rent of a larger and more luxurious box who would 
not have frozen to death in such a box as this. I am far from jesting. 
Economy is a subject which admits of being treated with levity, but 
it catmot so be disposed of. A comfortable house for a rude and hardy 
race that lived mostly out of doors was once made here almost en- 
tirely of such materials as Nature furnished ready to their hands. 
Gookin, who was superintendent of the Indians subject to the Mas- 
sachusetts Colony, writing in 1674, says, “The best of their houses 
are covered very neatly, tight and warm, with barks of trees, slipped 
from their bodies at those seasons when the sap is up, and made into 
great flakes, with pressiure of weighty timber, when they are green. 
. . . The meaner sort are covered with mats which they make of a 
kind of bulrush, and are also indifferently tight and warm, but not so 
good as the former. . . . Some I have seen, sixty or a hundred feet 
long and thirty feet broad. ... I have often lodged in their wig- 
wams, and found them as warm as the best English houses.” He adds 
that they were commonly carpeted and lined within with well- 
wrought embroidered mats, and were furnished with various utensils. 
The Indians had advanced so far as to regulate the effect of the wind 
by a mat suspended over the hole in the roof and moved by a string. 
Such a lodge was in the flrst instance constructed in a day or two at 
most, and taken down and put up in a few hours; and ev^ family 
owned one, or its apartment in one. . . . 

When I consider my neighbors, the farmers of Concord, who are 
at least as well off as the other classes, I find that for the most part 
they have been toiling twenty, thirty or forty years, that th^ may 

226 



Walden 

become the real owners of their farms, which commonly they have 
inherited with encumbrances, or else bought with hired money — and 
we may regard one third of that toil as the cost of their houses — but 
commonly they have not paid for them yet. It is true, the encum- 
brances sometimes outweigh the value of the farm, so that the farm 
itself becomes one great encumbrance, and still a man is foimd to 
inherit it, being well acquainted with it, as he says. On applying to 
the assessors, I am surprised to learn that they cannot at once name 
a dozen in the town who own their farms &ee and clear. If you 
would know the history of these homesteads, inquire at the bank 
where they are mortgaged. The man who has actually paid for his 
farm with labor on it is so rare that every neighbor can point to him. 
I doubt if there are three such men in Concord. What has been said 
of the merchants, that a very large majority, even ninety-seven in a* 
hundred, are sure to fail, is equally true of the farmers. With regard 
to the merchants, however, one of them says pertinently that a great 
part of their failures are not genuine pecuniary failures, but merely 
failures to fulfill their engagements, because it is inconvenient; that 
is, it is the moral character that breaks down. But this puts an infi- 
nitely worse face on the matter, and suggests, besides, that probably 
not even the other three succeed in saving their souls, but are per- 
chance bankrupt in a worse sense than they who fail honestly. Bank- 
ruptcy and repudiation are the springboards from which much of our 
civilization vaults and turns its somersaults, but the savage stands on 
the unelastic plank of famine. Yet the Middlesex Cattle Show goes 
off here with iclat annually, as if all the joints of the agricultural ma- 
chine were suent.* 

The farmer is endeavoring to solve the problem of a livelihood by 
a formula more complicated than the problem itself. To get his shoe- 
strings he speculates in herds of cattle. With consummate skill he has 
set his trap with a hairspring to catch comfort and independence, 
and then, as he turned away, got his own leg into it. This is Ae reason 
he is poor; and for a similar reason we are all poor in respect to a 
thousand savage comforts, though surrounded by luxuries. As Chap- 
man sings, 


The false society of men — 
for earthly greatness — 

All heavenly comforts rarefies to air. 

'Smooth 


227 



Henry David Thoreau 

And when the fanner has got his house, he may not be the richer 
but the poorer for it, and it be the house that has got him. As I under- 
stand it, that was a valid objection urged by Momus against the 
house which Minerva made, that she “had not made it movable, by 
which means a bad neighborhood mi^t be avoided”; and it may still 
be urged, for our houses are such unwieldy property that we are often 
imprisoned rather than housed in them; and the bad neighborhood to 
be avoided is our own scurvy selves. I' know one or two famOie^, at 
least, in this town, who, for nearly a generation, have been wiming 
to sell their houses in the outskirts and move into the village, \but 
have not been able to accomplish it, and only death will set them 
free. \ 

. . . Why should not our furniture be as simple as the Arab’s W 
the Indian’s? When I think of the benefactors of the race, whom we 
have apotheosized as messengers from heaven, bearers of divine gifts 
to man, 1 do not see in my mind any retinue at their heels, any car- 
load of fashionable furniture. Or what if I were to allow — ^would it 
not be a singular allowance? — that our furniture should be more 
complex than the Arab’s, in proportion as we are morally and in- 
tellectually his superiors! At present our houses are cluttered and 
defiled with it, and a good housewife would sweep out the greater 
part into the dust hole, and not leave her morning’s work undone. 
Morning work! By the blushes of Aurora and the music of Memnon, 
what should be man’s morning work in this world? I had three pieces 
of limestone on my desk, but I was terrified to find that they required 
to be dusted daily, when the furniture of my mind was all undusted 
still, and I threw them out the window in disgust. How, then, could I 
have a furnished house? I would rather sit in the open air, for no dust 
gathers on the grass, unless where man has broken ground. 

It is the luxurious and dissipated who set the fashions which the 
herd so diligently follow. The traveler who stops at the best houses, 
so called, soon discovers this, for the publicans presume him to be a 
Sardanapalus,* and if he resided himself to their tender mercies he 
would soon be completely emasculated. I think that in the railroad 
car we are inclined to spend more on luxury than on safety and con- 
venience, and it threatens without attaining these to become no bet- 
ter than a modem drawing room, with its divans and ottomans and 
sunshades and a hundred other oriental things which we are taking 
west with us, invented for the ladies of the harem and the effeminate 
* Assyrian king fond of luxury 

228 



Walden 

natives of the Celestial Empire, which Jonathan * should be ashmned 
to know the names of. I would rather sit on a pumpkin and have it 
aU to myself than be crowded on a velvet cushion. I would rather 
ride on earth in an ox cart, with a free circulation, than go to heaven 
in the fancy car of an excursion train and breathe a malaria t all 
the way. 

The very simplicity and nakedness of man’s life in the primitive 
ages imply this advantage, at least, that they left him still but a so- 
journer in nature. When he was refreshed with food and sleep, he 
contemplated his journey again. He dwelt, as it were, in a tent in 
this world, and was either threading the valleys or crossing the plains 
or climbing the mountain tops. But lol men have become the tools of 
their tools. The man who independently plucked the fruits when he 
was hungry is become a farmer; and be who stood under a tree for 
shelter, a housekeeper. We now no longer camp as for a night, but 
have settled down on earth and forgotten heaven. We have adopted 
Christianity merely as an improved method of agn-culture. We have 
built for this world a family mansion, and for the next a family 
tomb. The best works of art are the expression of man’s struggle to 
free himself from this condition, but the effect of our art is merely to 
make this low state comfortable and that higher state to be forgot- 
ten. There is actually no place in this village for a work of fine art, if 
any had come down to us, to stand, for our lives, our houses and 
streets furnish no proper pedestal for it. There is not a nail to hang 
a picture on, nor a shelf to receive the bust of a hero or a saint. When 
I consider how our houses are built and paid for, or not paid for, and 
their internal economy managed and sustained, 1 wonder that the 
floor does not give way imder the visitor while he is admiring the 
gewgaws upon the mantelpiece, and let him through into the cellar, 
to some solid and honest though earthly foundation. I cannot but per- 
ceive that this so-called rich and refined life is a thing jumped at, and 
I do not get on in the enjoyment of the fine arts which adorn it, my 
attention being wholly occupied with the jump; for 1 remember that 
the greatest genuine leap, due to human muscles alone, on record, is 
that of certain wandering Arabs, who are said to have deared twen- 
ty-five feet on level ground. Without factitious support, man is sure to 
come to earth again beyond that distance. The first question which I 
am tempted to put to the proprietor of such great impropriety is, 

* Brother Jonathan, name signifying the United States 
t Bad air 


229 



Henry David Thoreau 
“Who bolstm you? Are you one of the ninety-seven u^o fail, or 
the three who succeed? Answer me these questions, and then per- 
haps I may look at your baubles and find them ornamental.” The 
cart before the horse is neither beautiful nor useful. Before we can 
adorn our houses with beautiful objects the walls must be stripped, 
and our lives must be stripped, and beautiful housekeeping and 
beautiful living be laid for a foundation; now, a taste for the beauti- 
ful is most cultivated out of doors, where there is no house and no 
housekeeper. ... 1 

Though we are not so degenerate but that we mi^t possibly uve 
in a cave or a wigwam or wear skins today, it certainly is betterUo 
accept the advantages, though so dearly bought, which the invention 
and industry of mankind offer. In such a neighborhood as thk, 
boards and shingles, lime and bricks are cheaper and more easily 
obtained than suitable caves, or whole logs or bark in sufficient 
quantities, or even well-tempered clay or fiat stones. I speak under- 
standingly on this subject, for I have made myself acquainted with it 
both theoretically and practically. With a little more wit we migiit 
use these materials so as to become richer than the richest now are, 
and make our civilization a blessing. The civilized man is a more 
experienced and wiser savage. But to make haste to my own experi- 
ment. 

Near the end of March, 1845, 1 borrowed an ax and went down to 
the woods by Walden Pond, nearest to where I intended to build my 
house, and tegan to cut down some tall, arrowy white pines, still in 
their youth, for timber. It is difficult to begin without borrowing, but 
perhaps it is the most generous course thus to permit your fellow men 
to have an interest in your enterprise. The owner of ffie ax, as he re- 
leased his hold on it, said that it was the apple of his eye; but I re- 
turned it sharper than I received it. It was a pleasant hillside where 1 
worked, covered with pine woods, through which I looked out on the 
pond and a small open field in the woo^ whore pines and hickories 
wore sprin^g up. The ice in the pond was not yet dissolved, though 
there were some open spaces, and it was all dark-colored and sat- 
urated with water. There were some slight flurries of snow during the 
days that I worked there; but for the most part when I came out onto 
the railroad on my way home, its yellow sand heap stretched away 
Reaming in the hazy atmosphere, and the rails shone in the spring 
sun, and I heard the lark and pewee and other birds already come to 
commence another year with us. They were pleasant spring days, in 

230 



Walden 

which the winter of man’s discontent was thawing as well as the 
earth, and the life that had lain torpid began to stretch itself. Chie 
day, when my ax had come off and I had cut a green hickory for a 
wedge, driving it with a stone, and had placed the whole to soak in 
a pond hole in order to swell the wood, I saw a striped snake run into 
the water, and he lay on the bottom, apparently without inconven- 
ience, as long as I stayed there, or more than a quarter of an hour; 
perhaps because he had not yet fairly come out of the torpid state. 
It appeared to me that for a ^e reason men remain in their present 
low and primitive condition; but if they should feel the influence of 
the spring of springs arousing them, they would of necessi^ rise to a 
higher and more ethereal life. I had previously seen the snakes on 
frosty mornings in my path with portions of their bodies still numb 
and inflexible, waiting for the sun to thaw them. On the 1st of Aprif 
it rained and melted the ice, and in the early part of the day, which 
was very foggy, I heard a stray goose groping about over the pond 
and cackling as if lost, or like the spirit of fte fog. 

So I went on for some days cutting and hewing timber, and also 
studs and rafters, all with my narrow ax, not having many commu- 
nicable or scholarlike thoughts, sin^ng to myself. 

Men say they know many things; 

But lo! they have taken wings — 

The arts and sciences. 

And a thousand appliances: 

The wind that blows 
Is aU that anybody knows. 

I hewed the main timbers six inches square, most of the studs on two 
sides only, and the rafters and floor timbers on one side, leaving the 
rest of the bark on, so that they were just as straight and much 
stronger than sawed ones. Each stick was carefully mortised or ten- 
oned by its stump, for I had borrowed other tools by this time. My 
days in the woods were not very long ones; yet I usually carried my 
Hinnftr of bread and butter, and read the newspaper in which it was 
wrapped, at noon, sitting amid the green pine boughs which I had 
cut off, and to my bread was imparted some of their fragrance, for 
my hands were covered with a thick coat of pitch. Before I was done, 
I was more the friend than the foe of the piM tree, thou^ I had cut 
down some of them, having become better acquainted with it. Some- 

231 



Henry David Thoreau 
times a rambler in the wood was attracted by die sound of my ax, 
and we chatted pleasantly over the chips which I had made. 

By the middle of April, for I made no haste in my work, but rather 
made the most of it, my house was framed and ready for the raising. 
I had already bought the shanty of James Collins, an Irishman who 
worked on the Fitchburg Railroad, for boards. James Collins’ shanty 
was considered an uncommonly fine one. When I called to see it he 
was not at home. I walked about the outside, at first unobserved f^om 
within, the window was so deep and high. It was of small dimensions, 
with a peaked cottage roof, and not much else to be seen, the dirt 
being raised five feet all around as if it were a compost heap. ']rae 
roof was the soundest part, though a good deal warped and made 
brittle by the sun. DoorsiU there was none, but a perennial passage 
for the hens under the door board. Mrs. C. came to the door and asked 
me to view it from the inside. The hens were driven in by my ap- 
proach. It was dark, and had a dirt floor for the most part, dank, 
clammy, and aguish, only here a board and there a board which 
would not bear removal. She lighted a lamp to show me the inside of 
the roof and the walls, and also that the board floor extended under 
the bed, warning me not to step into the cellar, a sort of dust hole two 
feet deep. In her own words, Aey were “good boards overhead, good 
boards all around, and a good window” — of two whole squares origi- 
nally, only the cat had passed out that way lately. There were a stove, 
a bed and a place to sit, an infant in the house where it was bom, a 
silk parasol, gilt-framed looking glass, and a patent new coffee mill 
nailed to an oak sapling, all told. The bargain was soon concluded, 
for James had in the meanwhile returned. I to pay four dollars and 
twen^-five cents tonight, he to vacate at five tomorrow morning, sell- 
ing to nobody else meanwhile; I to take possession at six. It were well, 
he said, to be there early, and anticipate certain indistinct but wholly 
unjust claims on the score of ground rent and fuel. This he assured 
me was the only encumbrance. At six I passed him and his family 
on the road. One large bundle held their all — bed, coffee mill, look- 
ing ^ass, hens — all but the cat; she took to the woods and became a 
wild cat and, as I learned afterward, trod in a trap set for wood- 
chucks, and so became a dead cat at last. 

I took down this dwelling the same morning, drawing the nails, 
and removed it to the pond-side by small cartloads, spreading the 
boards on the grass there to bleach and warp back again in the sun. 

232 



Walden 

One early thrush gave me a note or two as I drove along the wood- 
land path. I was informed treacherously by a young Patrick that 
neighbor Seeley, an Irishman, in the intervals of the carting, trans- 
ferred the still tolerable, straight and drivable nails, staples and 
spikes to his pocket, and then stood, when I came back to pass the 
time of day and look freshly up, unconcerned, with spring thou^ts, 
at the devastation; there being a dearth of work, as he said. He was 
there to represent spectatordom and help make this seemingly in- 
significant event one with the removal of the gods of Troy. 

I dug my cellar in the side of a hill sloping to the south, where a 
woodchuck had formerly dug his burrow, down through sumac and 
blackberry roots, and the lowest stain of vegetation, six feet square 
by seven deep, to a fine sand where potatoes would not freeze in 
any winter. The sides were left shelving, and not stoned; but the sun' 
having never shone on them, the sand still keeps its place. It was but 
two hours’ work. I took particular pleasure in this breaking of ground, 
for in almost all latitudes men dig into the earth for an equable tem- 
perature. Under the most splendid house in the city is sfill to be 
found the cellar where they store their roots as of old, and long after 
the superstructure has disappeared, posterity remarks its dent in the 
earth. The house is still but a sort of porch at the entrance of a bur- 
row. 

At length, in the beginning of May, with the help of some of my 
acquaintances, rather to improve so good an occasion for neighbor- 
liness than from any necessity, I set up the frame of my house. No 
man was ever more honored in the character of his rmsers than I. 
They are destined, I trust, to assist at the raising of loftier structures 
one day. I began to occupy my house on the 4th of July, as soon as it 
was boarded and roofed, for the boards were carefully feather-edged 
and lapped, so that it was perfectly impervious to rain, but before 
boarding I laid the foundation of a chimney at one end, brin^g 
two cartloads of stones op the hill from the pond in my arms. I built 
the chimney after my hoeing in the fall, before a fire became neces- 
sary for warmth, doing my cooking in the meanwhile out of doors on 
the ground, early in the morning; which mode I still think is in some 
respects more convenient and agreeable than the usual one. When it 
stormed before my bread was baked, I fixed a few boards over the 
fire and sat under them to watch my loaf, and passed some pleasant 
hours in that way. In those days, when my hands were mudi em- 

233 



Henry David Thoreau 
ployed, I read but little, but the least scraps of paper which lay on the 
ground, my holder, or tablecloth, afforded me as much entertainment, 
in fact answered the same purpose, as the Iliad. 

It would be worthwhile to build still more deliberately than I did, 
considering, for instance, what foundation a door, a window, a cel- 
lar, a garret have in the nature of man, and perchance never raising 
any superstructure until we found a better' reason for it than our ijbm- 
poral necessities even. There is some of the same fitness in a mim’s 
building his own house that there is in a bird’s building its own nW. 
Who knows but if men constructed their dwellings with their own 
hands, and provided food for themselves and families simply and 
honestly enough, the poetic faculty would be universally developed, 
as birds universally sing when they are so engaged? But alas! we do 
like cowbirds and cuckoos, which lay their eggs in nests which other 
birds have built, and cheer no traveler with their chattering and un- 
musical notes. Shall we forever resign the pleasure of construction to 
the carpenter? What does architecture amount to in the experience of 
the mass of men? I never in all my walks came across a man engaged 
in so simple and natural an occupation as building his house. We be- 
long to the community. It is not the tailor alone who is the ninth part 
of a man; it is as much the preacher and the merchant and the 
farmer. Where is this division of labor to end? And what object does 
it finally serve? No doubt another may also think for me; but it is not 
therefore desirable that he should do so to the exclusion of my think- 
ing for myself. . . . 

Before winter I built a clumney, and shingled the sides of my 
house, which were already impervious to rain, with imperfect and 
sappy shingiles made of the first slice of the log, whose edges I was 
obliged to straighten with a plane. 

I have thus a tight-shingled and plastered house, ten feet wide by 
fifteen long, and eight-feet posts, with a garret and a closet, a large 
window on each side, two trapdoors, one door at the end, and a brick 
fireplace opposite. The exact cost of my house, paying the usual 
price for such materials as I used, but not counting the work, all of 
which was done by myself, was as follows; and I ^ve the details be- 
cause very few are able to tell exactly what their house cost, and 
fewer still, if any, the separate cost of the various materials which 
compose them: 

234 



Walden 


Boards 

Refuse shingles for roof 

$ sm¥t 

Mostly shanty boards. 

and sides .... 

4.00 


Laths 

Two second-hand win- 

1.25 


dows with glass 

2.43 


One thousand old bricks . 

4.00 


Two casks of lime 

2.40 

That was high. 

Hair 

0.31 

More than I needed. 

Mantle-tree iron . 

0.15 


Nails ...... 

3.90 


Hinges and screws . 

0.14 


Latch 

0.10 


Chalk 

Transportation 

0.01 

1.40 

(1 carried a good part 
\ on my back. 

In all .... 

$28.12V4 


These are all the materials, excepting the timber, stones and sand, 
which I claimed by squatter’s right. 1 have also a small woodshed 
adjoining, made chiefly of the stuff which was left after building the 
house. 

I intend to build me a house which will surpass any on the main 
street in Concord in grandeur and luxury, as soon as it pleases me as 
much and will cost me no more than my present one. 

I thus found that the student who wishes for a shelter can obtain 
one for a lifetime at an expense not greater than the rent which he 
now pays annually. If I seem to boast more than is becoming, my 
excuse is that I brag for humanity rather than for myself; and my 
shortcomings and inconsistencies do not affect the truth of my state- 
ment. Notwithstanding much cant and hypocrisy— chaff which I 
find it diffcult to separate from my wheat, but for which I am as 
sorry as any man — I will breathe freely and stretch myself in this 
respect, it is such a relief to both the moral and physical system; and 
I am resolved that I will not through humility become the devil’s 
attorney. I will endeavor to speak a good word for the truth. 

At Cambridge College * the mere rent of a student’s room, which 
is only a little larger than my own, is thirty dollars each year, though 
the corporation had the advantage of building thir^-two side by side 
* Harvard College 


235 



Henry David Thoreau 
and under one roof, and the occupant suffers the inconvenience of 
many noisy neighbors, and perhaps a residence in the fourth story. 
I cannot but think that if we had more true wisdom in these respects, 
not only less education would be needed, because, forsooth, more 
would already have been acquired, but the pecuniary expense of 
getting an education would in a great measure vanish. Those con- 
veniences which the student requires at Cambridge or elsewhere cost 
him or somebody else ten times as gre'at'a sacrifice of life as they 
would with proper management on both sides. Those things ifor 
which the most money is demanded are never the things which me 
student most wants. Tuition, for instance, is an important item in me 
term bill, while for the far more valuable education which he gets by 
associating with the most cultivated of his contemporaries no charge 
is made. The mode of founding a college is, commonly, to get up a 
subscription of dollars and cents, and then, following blindly the 
principles of a division of labor to its extreme — a principle which 
should never be followed but with circumspection — ^to call in a con- 
tractor who makes this a subject of speculation, and he employs Irish- 
men or other operatives actually to lay the foundations, while the 
students, that are to be, are said to be fitting themselves for it; and for 
these oversi^ts successive generations have to pay. 

I think that it would be better than this, for the students, or those 
who desire to be benefited by it, even to lay the foundation them- 
selves. The student who secures his coveted leisure and retirement 
by systematically shirking any labor necessary to man obtains but an 
ignoble and unprofitable leisure, defrauding himself of the experi- 
ence which alone can make leisure fruitful. “But,” says one, “you 
do not mean that the students should go to work with their hands 
instead of their heads?” I do not mean that exactly, but I mean 
something which he might think a good deal like that; I mean that 
they should not play life, or study it merely, while the community 
supports them at this expensive game, but earnestly live it from be- 
ginning to end. How could youths better learn to live than by at once 
trying the experiment of Uving? I think this would exercise their 
minds as much as mathematics. If I wished a boy to know something 
about the arts and sciences, for instance, I would not pursue the 
common course, which is merely to send him into the neighborhood 
of some professor, where anything is professed and practiced but 
the art of life; to survey the world through a telescope or a micro- 
scope, and never with his natural eye; to study chemistry, and not 

236 



Walden 

learn how his bread is made, or mechanics, and not learn how it is 
earned; to discover new satellites to Neptune, and not detect the 
motes in his eyes, or to what vagabond he is a satellite himself; or to 
be devoured by the monsters diat swarm all around him, while con- 
templating the monsters in a drop of vinegar. Which wo^d have ad- 
vanced the most at the end of a month — ^the boy who had made his 
own jackknife from the ore which he had dug and smelted, reading 
as much as would be necessary for this — or the boy who had at- 
tended the lectures on metallurgy at the Institute in the meanwhile, 
and had received a Rodgers penknife from his father? Which would 
be most likely to cut his fingers? . . . 

To my astonishment I was informed on leaving college that I had 
studied navigation! Why, if I had taken one turn down the harbor I 
should have known more about it. Even the poor student studies and 
is taught only political economy, while that economy of living which 
is synonymous with philosophy is not even sincerely professed in our 
colleges. The consequence is that, while he is rea^g Adam Smith, 
Ricardo and Say,* he runs his father in debt irretrievably. 

As with our colleges, so with a hundred “modem improvements”; 
there is an illusion about them; there is not always a positive ad- 
vance. The devil goes on exacting compound interest to the last for 
his early share and numerous succeeding investments in them. Our 
inventions are wont to be pretty toys, which distract our attention 
from serious things. They are but improved means to an unimproved 
end, an end which it was already but too easy to arrive at; as rail- 
roads lead to Boston or New York. We are in great haste to construct 
a magnetic telegraph from Maine to Texas; but Maine and Texas, it 
may be, have nothing important to communicate. Either is in such a 
predicament as the man who was earnest to be introduced to a dis- 
tinguished deaf woman, but when he was presented, and one end of 
her ear trumpet was put into his hand, had nothing to say. As if the 
main object were to talk fast and not to talk sensibly. We are eager 
to tunnd under the Atlantic and bring the Old World some weeks 
nearer to the New; but perchance the first news that will leak through 
into the broad, flapping American ear will be that the Princess Ade- 
laide has the whooping cough. After all, the man whose horse trots a 
mile a minute does not carry the most important messages; he is not 
an evangelist, nor does he come aroxmd eating locusts and wild 

* Adam Smith, David Ricardo, British economists; Jean Baptiste Say, French 
economist 


237 



Henry David Thoreau 
honey. I doubt if Flying Childers * ever carried a peck of com to 
mOl. 

One sa3rs to me, “I wonder that you do not lay up money; you love 
to travel; you might take the cars and go to Fitchburg today and see 
the count^.” But I am wiser than that. I have learned that the swift- 
est traveler is he that goes afoot. I say to my friend, “Suppose we try 
who will get there first.” The distance is thirty miles; the fare nine^ 
cents. That is almost a day’s wages. I ‘remember when wages Were 
sixty cents a day for laborers on this very road. Well, I start now on 
foot, and get there before night; I have traveled at that rate by uie 
week together. You will in the meanwhile have earned your faire, 
and arrive there sometime tomorrow, or possibly this evening, if you 
are lucky enough to get a job in season. Instead of going to Fitchburg, 
you will be working here the greater part of the day. And so, if the 
railroad reached around the world, I think that I should keep ahead 
of you; and as for seeing the country and getting experience of that 
kind, I should have to cut your acquaintance altogether. 

Such is the universal law, which no man can ever outwit, and 
with regard to the railroad even we may say it is as broad as it is 
long. To make a railroad around the world available to aU mankind 
is equivalent to grading the whole surface of the planet. Men have 
an indistinct notion that if they keep up this activity of joint stocks 
and spades long enough all will at length ride somewhere, in next 
to no time, and for nothing; but though a crowd rushes to the depot, 
and the conductor shouts “All aboard!” when the smoke is blown 
away and the vapor condensed, it will be perceived that a few are 
riding, but the rest are run over — and it will be called, and will be, 
“a melancholy accident.” No doubt they can ride at last who shall 
have earned their fare, that is, if they survive so long, but they will 
probably have lost their elasticity and desire to travel by that time. 
This spending of the best part of one’s life earning money in order to 
enjoy a questionable liberty during the least valuable part of it re- 
minds me of the Englishman who went to India to make a fortune 
first, in order that he might return to England and live the life of a 
poet. He should have gone up to the garret at once. “What!”, exclaim 
a milli on Irishmen starting up from all the shanties in the land, “is 
not this railroad which we have built a good thing?” Yes, I answer, 
comparatively good; that is, you nug^t have done worse; but I wish, 
* Famous En^i^ racehorse 

238 



Walden 

as you are brothers of mine, that you could have spent your time 
better than digging in this dirt. 

Before I finished my house, wishing to earn ten or twelve dollars 
by some honest and agreeable method, in order to meet my unusual 
expenses, I planted about two acres and a half of light and sandy soil 
near it chiefly with beans, but also a small part with potatoes, com, 
peas and turnips. The whole lot contains eleven acres, mostly grow- 
ing up to pines and hickories, and was sold the preceding season for 
eight dollars and eight cents an acre. One farmer said that it was 
“good for nothing but to raise cheeping squirrels on.” I put no manure 
whatever on this land, not being the owner, but merely a squatter, 
and not expecting to cultivate so much again, and I did not quite hoe. 
it all once. I got out several cords of stumps in plowing, which sup- 
plied me with fuel for a long time, and left small circles of virgin mold, 
easily distinguishable through the summer by the greater luxuriance of 
the beans there. The dead and for the most part unmerchantable wood 
behind my house, and the driftwood from the pond, have supplied the 
remainder of my fuel. 1 was obliged to hire a team and a man for the 
plowing, though 1 held the plow myself. My farm outgoes for the first 
season were, for implements, seed, work, etc., $14.72Vi. The seed 
com was given to me. This never costs anything to speak of unless 
you plant more than enough. 1 got twelve bushels of beans, and eight- 
een bushels of potatoes, besides some peas and sweet com. The yellow 
com and turnips were too late to come to anything. My whole income 


from the farm was $23.44 

Deducting the outgoes \A.12Vi 

There are left $ 8.71V4, 


besides produce consumed and on band at the time, this estimate 
was made of the value of $4.50 — ^the amount on hand much 
more than balancing a little grass which I did not raise; All things 
considered, that is, considering the importance of a man’s sotil 
and of today, notwithstanding the short time occupied by my exper- 
iment, nay, partly even because of its transient character, I believe 
that that was doing better than any farmer in Concord did that 
year. 

The next year I did better still, for I spaded up aU the land which 
I required, about a third of an acre, and I learned from the experi- 
ence of both years, not being in the least awed by many celebrated 

239 



Henry David Thoreau 
works on husbandry, Arthur Young * among the rest, that if one 
would live simply and eat only the crop which he raised, and raise 
no more than he ate, and not exchange it for an insufficient quantity 
of more luxurious and expensive things, he would need to cultivate 
only a few rods of ground, and that it would be cheaper to spade up 
that than to use oxen to plow it, and to select a fresh spot from time 
to time than to manure the old, and he could do all his necessary farm 
work as it were with his left hand at odd hours in the summer; and 
thus he would not be tied to an ox or horse or cow or pig, as at {Res- 
ent. I desire to speak impartially on this point, and as one not inter- 
ested in the success or failure of the present economical and soqial 
arrangements. I was more independent than any farmer in Concord, 
for I was not anchored to a house or farm, but could follow the bent 
of my genius, which is a very crooked one, every moment. Besides 
being better off than they already, if my house had been burned or my 
crops had failed, I should have been nearly as well off as before. . . . 

By surveying, carpentry, and day labor of various other kinds in 
the village in the meanwhile, for I have as many trades as fingers, I 
had earned $13.34. The expense of food for eight months, namely, 
from July 4th to March 1st, the time when these estimates were 
made, though I lived there more than two years — ^not counting po- 
tatoes, a little green com and some peas, which I had raised, nor 
considering the value of what was on hand at the last date — ^was: 


Rice 

. . $1.73Vi 


Molasses • 

. . 1.73 

Cheapest form of the saccharine. 

Rye meal . 

. . 1.043A 


Indian meal 

. . 0.993/4 

Cheaper than rye. 

Pork . 

. . 0.22 




Costs more than Indian I ^ 

Flour . . . 

. . 0.88 •' 

meal, both money and „ 

Sugar . . . 

. . 0.80 

trouble. 

l^ard • » • 

. . 0.65 

1’ 

Apples . 

. . 0.25 

s 

Dried apple 

. , 0.22 


Sweet potatoes . 

. . 0.10 

1 

One pumpkin . 

. . 0.06 


One watermelon 

. . 0.02 


Salt . . . 

. . 0.03 

1 


* English agriculturist 


240 



Walden 

Yes, I did eat $8.74, all told; but I should not thus unblushingly pub- 
lish my guilt, if I did not know that most of my readers were equally 
guilty with myself, and that their deeds would look no better in print. 
The next year I sometimes cau^t a mess of fish for my dinner, and 
once I went so far as to slaughter a woodchuck which ravaged my 
bean field — effect his transmigration, as a Tartar would say — and 
devour him, partly for experiment’s sake; but though it afforded me 
a momentary enjoyment, notwithstanding a musky fiavor, I saw that 
the longest use would not make that a good practice, however it 
might seem to have your woodchucks ready-dressed by the village 
butcher. 

Clothing and some incidental expenses within the same dates, 
though little can be inferred from this item, amounted to . $8.40%. 

Oil and some household utensils 2.00 

So that all the pecuniary outgoes, except for washing and mending, 
which for the most part were done out of the house, and their bills 
have not yet been received — and these are all and more than all the 
ways by which money necessarily goes out in this part of the world — 
were: 


House $28. 12 Vi 

Farm one year 14.72Vi 

Food eight months 8.74 

Oothing, etc., eight months 8.40% 

Oil, etc., eight months 2.00 

InaU $61.99% 

I address myself now to those of my readers who have a living to get. 
And to meet this I have for farm produce sold .... $23.44 

Earned by day labor 13.34 

InaU $36.78, 


which, subtracted from the sum of the outgoes, leaves a balance of 
$25.21% on the one side — ^this being very nearly the means with 
which 1 started, and the measure of expenses to be incurred — and 
on the other, besides the leisure and independence and health thus 
secured, a comfortable house for me as long as I choose to occupy it. 

These statistics, however accidental and therefore uninstructive 
they may appear, as they have a certain completeness, have a cer- 
tain value also. Nothing was given me of which I have not rendered 

241 



Henry David Thoreau 
some account. It appears from the above estimate that my food alone 
cost me in money about twenty-seven cents a week. It was, for nearly 
two years after this, rye and Indian meal without yeast, potatoes, 
rice, a very little salt pork, molasses and salt; and my drink, water. It 
was fit that I should live on rice, mainly, who loved so well the phi- 
losophy of India. To meet the objections of some inveterate cavilers, 
I may as well state that if I dined out occasionally, as I always had 
done and I trust shall have opportunities to do again, it was 
quentiy to the detriment of my domestic arrangements. But the 
ing out, being, as I have stated, a constant element, does not in 
least affect a comparative statement like this. 

I learned from my two years’ experience that it would cost 
credibly little trouble to obtain one’s necessary food, even in tl^ 
latitude; that a man may use as simple a diet as the animals, and yet 
retain health and strength. I have made a satisfactory dinner, satis- 
factory on several accounts, simply off a dish of purslane {Portulaca 
oleracea) which I gathered in my cornfield, boiled and salted. I 
give the Latin on account of the savoriness of the trivial name. And 
pray what more can a reasonable man desire, in peaceful times, in 
ordinary noons, than a sufficient number of ears of green sweet com 
boiled, with the addition of salt? Even the little variety which I used 
was a yielding to the demands of appetite, and not of health. Yet men 
have come to such a pass that they frequently starve, not for want of 
necessaries, but for want of luxuries; and I know a good woman who 
thinks that her son lost his life because he took to drinking water only. 

The reader will perceive that I am treating the subject rather from 
an economic than a dietetic point of view, and he will not venture to 
put my abstemiousness to the test unless he has a well-stocked larder. 

Bread I at first made of pure Indian meal and salt, genuine hoe- 
cakes, which I baked before my fire out of doors on a shingle or the 
end of a stick of timber sawed off in building my house; but it was 
wont to get smoked and to have a piny flavor. I tried flour also; but 
have at last found a mixture of rye and Indian metd most convenient 
and agreeable. In cold weather it was no little amusement to bake 
several small loaves of this in succession, tending and turning them as 
carefully as an Egyptian his hatching eggs. They were a real cereal 
fruit which I ripened, and they had to my senses a fragrance like 
that of noble fruits, which I kept in as long as possible by wrapping 
them in cloths. I made a study of the ancient and indispensable art of 
breadmaking, consulting such authorities as offered, going back to the 

242 




Walden 

primitive days and first invention of the unleavened kind, when from 
the wildness of nuts and meats men first reached the mildness and 
refinement of this diet, and traveling gradually down in my studies 
throu^ that accidental souring of the dough which, it is supposed, 
taught the leavening process, and through the various fermentations 
thereafter, till I came to “good, sweet, wholesome bread,” the staff 
of life. Leaven, which some deem the soul of bread, the spiritus which 
fills its cellular tissue, which is religiously preserved like the vestal 
fire — some precious bottleful, I suppose, first brought over in the May- 
flower, did the business for America, and its influence is still rising, 
swelling, spreading, in cerealian billows over the land — ^this seed I 
regularly and faithfully procured from the village, till at length one 
morning I forgot the rules, and scalded my yeast; by which accident 
I discovered that even this was not indispensable — ^for my discov- 
eries were not by the synthetic but analytic process — and I have 
gladly omitted it since, though most housewives earnestly assured me 
that safe and wholesome bread without yeast might not be, and 
elderly people prophesied a speedy decay of the vital forces. Yet I 
find it not to be an essential ingredient, and after going without it for 
a year am still in the land of the living; and 1 am g|lad to escape the 
trivialness of carrying a bottleful in my pocket, which would some- 
times pop and discharge its contents to my discomfiture. It is simpler 
and more respectable to omit it. Man is an animal who more than 
any other can adapt himself to all climates and circumstances. Nei- 
ther did I put any sal soda or other acid or alkali into my bread. It 
would seem that I made it according to the recipe which Marcus 
Porcius Cato * gave about two centuries before Christ. "Panem 
depsticium sic facito. Manus mortariumque bene lavato. Farinam in 
mortarium indito, aquae paulatim addito, subigitoque pulchre. Ubi 
bene subegeris, defingito, coquitoque sub testu.” Which I take to 
mean, “Make kneaded bread thus. Wash your hands -and trough 
well. Put the meal into the trough, add water gradually, and knead it 
thoroughly. When you have kneaded it well, mold it and bake it un- 
der a cover,” that is, in a baking kettle. Not a word about leaven. 
But I did not always use this staff of life. At one time, owing to the 
emptiness of my purse, I saw none of it for more than a month. 

Every New Englander might easily raise all his own breadstuffs in 
this land of rye and Indian com, and not depend on distant and 
fluctuating markets for them. Yet so far are we from simplicity and 
* Cato the Elder, Rcsnan stateranan 


243 



Henry David Thoreau 
independence that, in Concord, fresh and sweet meal is rarely sold in 
the shops, and hominy and com in a still coarser form are hardly 
used by any. For the most part the farmer gives to his cattle and hogs 
the grain of his own producing, and buys flour, which is at least no 
more wholesome, at a greater cost, at the store. I saw that I could 
easily raise my bushel or two of rye and Indian com, for the former 
win grow on the poorest land, and the latter does not require the 
best, and grind them in a hand mill, and' so do without rice and p(irk; 
and if I must have some concentrated sweet, I found by experi- 
ment that I could make a very good molasses either of pumpkins\or 
beets, and I knew that I needed only to set out a few maples to obtain 
it more easily still, and while these were growing I could use variolas 
substitutes besides those which I have named. “For,” as the forefather 
sang: 

... we can make liquor to sweeten our lips 
Of pumpkins and parsnips and walnut-tree chips. 

Finally, as for salt, that grossest of groceries, to obtain this might be 
a fit occasion for a visit to the seashore or, if 1 did without it alto- 
gether, I should probably drink the less water. 1 do not learn that the 
Indians ever troubled themselves to go after it. 

Thus I could avoid all trade and barter, as far as my food was 
concerned, and having a shelter already, it would only remain to get 
clothing and fuel. The pantaloons which I now wear were woven in 
a farmer’s family — ^thank Heaven there is so much virtue still in 
man; for I think the fall from the farmer to the operative as great and 
memorable as that from the man to the farmer — and in a new coim- 
try, fuel is an encumbrance. As for a habitat, if I were not permitted 
still to squat, I might purchase one acre at the same price for which 
the land I cultivated was sold — ^namely, eight dollars and eight cents. 
But as it was, I considered that I enhanced the value of the land by 
squatting on it. 

There is a certain class of unbelievers who sometimes ask me such 
questions as, if 1 think that I can live on vegetable food alone; and to 
strike at the root of the matter at once — ^for the root is faith — ^I am 
accustomed to answer such that I can live on board nails. If they can- 
not understand that, they cannot understand much that I have to say. 
For my part, I am glad to hear of experiments of this kind being tried; 
as that a young man tried for a fortnight to live on hard, raw com on 
the ear, using his teeth for all mortar. The squirrel tribe tried the 
same and succeeded. The human race is interested in these expeii- 

244 



Walden 

meats, thou^ a few old women who are incapacitated for them, or 
who own their thirds in mills, may be alarmed. 

My furniture, part of which I made myself — and the rest cost me 
nothing of which 1 have not rendered an account— consisted of a bed, 
a table, a desk, three chairs, a looking gflass three inches in diameter, 
a pair of tongs and andirons, a kettle, a skillet and a frying pan, a 
dipper, a washbowl, two knives and forks, three plates, one cup, one 
spoon, a jug for oil, a jug for molasses and a japanned lamp. None 
is so poor that he need sit on a pumpkin. That is shiftlessness. There 
is a plenty of such chairs as I like best in the village garrets to be had 
for taking them away. Furniture! Thank God, I can sit and I can 
stand without the aid of a furniture warehouse. What man but a phi- 
losopher would not be ashamed to see his furniture packed in a cart 
and going upcountry exposed to the light of heaven and the eyes of 
men, a beggarly accotmt of empty boxes? That is Spaulding’s furni- 
ture. I could never tell from inspecting such a load whether it be- 
longed to a so-called rich man or a poor one; the owner always 
seemed poverty-stricken. Indeed, the more you have of such things 
the poorer you are. Each load looks as if it contained the contents of 
a dozen shanties; and if one shanty is poor, this is a dozen times as 
poor. Pray, for what do we move ever but to get rid of our furniture, 
our exuviae; at last to go from this world to another newly furnished, 
and leave this to be burned? It is the same as if all these traps were 
buckled to a man’s belt, and he could not move over the rou^ coun- 
try where our lines are cast without dragging them — dragging his trap. 
He was a lucky fox that left his tail in the trap. The musical will gnaw 
his third leg off to be free. No wonder man has lost his elasticity. 
How often he is at a dead set! “Sir, if I may be so bold, what do you 
mean by a dead set?” 

If you are a seer, whenever you meet a man you will see all that 
he owns, aye, and much that he pretends to chsown, behind him, 
even to his kitchen furniture and all the trumpery which he saves and 
will not bum, and he will appear to be harnessed to it and making 
what headway he can. I think Uiat the man is at a dead set who has got 
through a knothole or gateway where his dedgeload of furniture can- 
not follow him. I cannot but feel compassion when I hear some trig, 
compact-looking man, seemingly free, all gjrded and readty, speak 
of his “furniture,” as whether it is insured or not. “But what shall. I 
do with my furniture?” My gay butterfly is entan^ed in a spider’s 

245 



Henry David Thoreau 
web then. Even those who seem for a long while not to have any, if 
you inquire more narrowly you will find have some stored in some- 
body’s bam. I look upon En^and today as an old gentleman who is 
traveling with a great deal of baggage, trumpery which has accumu- 
lated from long housekeeping, which he has not the courage to bum; 
great tmnk, little trunk, bandbox and bundle. Throw away the first 
three at least. It would surpass the powers of a well man nowadays to 
take up his bed and walk, and I should certainly advise a sick one to 
lay down his bed and run. When I have met an immigrant tottering 
under a bundle which contained his all — ^looking like an enormous 
wen which had grown out of the nape of his neck — I have pitied him, 
not because that was his all, but because he had all that to carry. If I 
have got to drag my trap, I will take care that it be a light one and do 
not nip me in a vital part. But perchance it would be wisest never to 
put one’s paw into it. 

I would observe, by the way, that it costs me nothing for curtains, 
for I have no gazers to shut out but the sun and moon, and I am will- 
ing that they should look in. The moon will not sour milk nor taint 
meat of mine, nor will the sun injure my furniture or fade my carpet; 
and if he is sometimes too warm a friend, I find it still better economy 
to retreat behind some curtain which nature has provided, than to 
add a single item to the details of housekeeping. A lady once offered 
me a mat, but as I had no room to spare within the house, nor time 
to spare within or without to shake it, I declined it, preferring to wipe 
my feet on the sod before my door. It is best to avoid the beginnings 
of evil. . . . 

For more than five years I maintained myself thus solely by the 
labor of my hands, and I foimd that, by working about six weeks in 
a year, I could meet all the expenses of living. The whole of my win- 
ters, as well as most of my summers, 1 had free and clear for study. 
I have thoroughly tried schoolkeeping, and foimd that my expenses 
were in proportion, or rather out of proportion, to_my income, for I 
was obliged to dress and train, not to say, think and believe, accord- 
ingly, and I lost my time in the bargain. As I did not teach for the 
good of my fellow men, but simply for a Uvelihood, this was a fail- 
ure. I have tried trade; but I foimd that it would take ten years to 
get under way in that, and that then I should probably be on my way 
to the devil. I was actually afraid that I mig|ht by that time be doing 
what is called a good business. When formerly I was looking about 

246 



Walden 

to see what I could do for a living, some sad experience in conform- 
ing to the wishes of friends being fresh in my mind to tax my inge- 
nuity, I thought often and seriously of picking huckleberries; that 
surely I could do, and its small profits might sufiice — ^for my great- 
est skill has been to want but little — so little capital it required, so 
little distraction from my wonted moods, I foolishly thought. While 
my acquaintances went unhesitatingly into trade or the professions, 

I contemplated this occupation as most like theirs; ranging the hills 
all summer to pick the berries which came in my way, and there- 
after carelessly dispose of them; so, to keep the flocks of Admetus. I 
also dreamed that I might gather the wild herbs or carry evergreens 
to such villagers as loved to be reminded of the woods, even to the 
city, by haycart loads. But I have since learned that trade curses ev- 
erything it handles; and though you trade in messages from Heaven, 
the whole curse of trade attaches to the business. 

As I preferred some things to others, and especially valued my 
freedom, as I could fare hard and yet succeed well, 1 did not wish to 
spend my time in earning rich carpets or other fine furniture, or 
delicate cookery, or a house in the Grecian or the Gothic style just 
yet. If there are any to whom it is no interruption to acquire these 
things, and who know how to use them when acquired, I relinquish 
to them the pursuit. Some are “industrious,” and appear to love labor 
for its own sake, or perhaps because it keeps Aem out of worse 
mischief; to such I have at present nothing to say. Those who would 
not know what to do with more leisure than they now enjoy, I might 
advise to work twice as hard as they do — ^work till they pay for 
themselves, and get their free papers. For myself I found ^at the 
occupation of a day laborer was the most independent of any, espe- 
cially as it required only thirty or forty days in a year to support 
one. The laborer’s day ends with the going down of the sun, and he 
is then free to devote himself to his chosen pursuit, independent of 
his labor; but his employer, who speculates from month to mondi, 
has no respite from one end of the year to the other. 

In short, I am convinced, both by faith and experience, that to 
maintain one’s self on this earth is not a hardship but a pastime, if 
we will live simply and wisely; as the pursuits of the simpler natiomr 
are still the sports of the more artificial. It is not necessary that a 
man should earn Us living by the sweat of his brow, unless he sweats 
easier than I do. 

One young man of my acquaintance, who has inherited smne 

247 



Henry David Thoreau 
acres, told me that he thought he should live as I did, if he had the 
means. I would not have anyone adopt my mode of living on any 
account; for, besides that, before he has fairly learned it, I may have 
found out another for myself, I desire that there may be as many 
different persons in the world as possible; but I would have each 
one be very careful to find out and pursue his own way, and not his 
father’s or his mother’s or his neighbor’s instead. The youth may 
build or plant or sail, only let him not be hindered from doing that 
which he tells me he would like to do. It is by<a mathematical point 
only that we are wise, as the sailor or the fugitive slave keeps the 
polestar in his eye; but that is sufficient guidance for all our life. We 
‘may not arrive at our port within a calculable period, but we would 
preserve the true course. . . . 

But all this is very selfish, I have heard some of my townsmen 
say. I confess that I have hitherto indulged very little in philan- 
thropic enterprises. I have made some sacrifices to a sense of duty, 
and among others have sacrificed this pleasure also. There are those 
who have used all their arts to persuade me to undertake the sup- 
port of some poor family in the town; and if I had nothing to do — 
for the devil ^ds employment for the idle — might try my hand at 
some such pastime as that. However, when I have thought to in- 
dulge myseU in this respect, and lay their Heaven under an obliga- 
tion by maintaining certain poor persons in all respects as comfort- 
ably as I maintain myself, and have even ventured so far as to make 
them the offer, they have one and all unhesitatingly preferred to re- 
main poor. While my townsmen and women are devoted in so many 
ways to the good of their fellows, I trust that one at least may be 
spared to other and less humane pursuits. You must have a genius 
for charity as well as for anything else. As for doing-good, that is 
one of the professions which are full. Moreover, 1 have tried it fairly 
and, strange as it may seem, am satisfied that it does not agree with 
my constitution. Probably I should not consciously and deliberately 
forsake my particular calling to do the good which society demands 
of me, to save the universe from annihilation; and I believe that a 
like but infinitely greater steadfastness elsewhere is all that now pre- 
serves it. But I would not stand between any man and his genius; 
and to him who does this work, which I decline, with his whole heart 
and soul and life, I woidd say, “Persevere, even if the whole world 
call it doing evil, as it is most likely they 

248 



Walden 

There is no odor so bad as that which arises from goodness 
tainted. It is human, it is divine, carrion. If I knew for a certainty 
that a man was coming to my house with the conscious design of 
doing me good, I should run for my life, as from that dry and parch- 
ing wind of the African deserts called the simoom, which 611s the 
mouth and nose and ears and eyes with dust till you are suffocated, 
for fear that I should get some of his good done to me — some of its 
virus mingled with my blood. No, in this case I would rather suffer 
evil the natural way. A man is not a good man to me because he will 
feed me if I should be starving, or warm me if I should be freezing, 
or pull me out of a ditch if I should ever fall into one. I can 6nd you a 
Newfoundland dog that will do as much. Philanthropy is not love for 
one’s fellow man in the broadest sense. Howard * was no doubt an 
exceedingly kind and worthy man in his way, and has his reward; 
but, comparatively speaking, what are a hundred Howards to us, if 
their philanthropy do not help us in our best estate, when we are 
most worthy to be helped? I never heard of a philanthropic meeting 
n which it was sincerely proposed to do any good to me or the like 
of me. 

The Jesuits were quite balked by those Indians who, being burned 
at the stake, suggested new modes of torture to their tormentors. 
Being superior to physical suffering, it sometimes chanced that they 
were superior to any consolation which the missionaries could offer; 
and the law to do as you would be done by fell with less persuasive- 
ness on the ears of those who, for their part, did not care how they 
were done by, who loved their enemies after a new fashion, and 
came very near freely forgiving them all they did. 

Be sure that you give the poor the aid they most need, though it 
be your example which leaves them far behind. If you give money, 
spend yourself with it, and do not merely abandon it to them. We 
make curious mistakes sometimes. Often the poor man is not so cold 
and htmgry as he is dir^ and ragged and gross. It is partly his taste 
and not merely his misfortune. If you gve him money, he wfll per- 
haps buy more rags with it. I was wont to pity the clumsy Irish la- 
borers who cut ice on the pond in such mean and ragged clothes, 
while I shivered in my more tidy and somewhat mote fashionable 
garments, till, one bitter cold day, one who had slipped into the wa- 
ter came to my house to warm himself, and I saw him strip off three 
pairs of pants and two pairs of stockings ere he got down to the skin, 
* John Howard, English prison reformer 


249 



Henry David Thoreau 
though they were dirty and ragged enough, it is true, and that he 
could afford to refuse the extra garments which I offered him, he 
had so many intra ones. This ducking was the very thing he needed. 
Then I began to pity myself, and I saw that it would be a greater 
charity to bestow on me a flarmel shirt than a whole slop-shop on 
him. There are a thousand hacking at the branches of evil to one 
who is striking at the root, and it may be that he who bestows the 
largest amount of time and money on the needy is doing the most 
by his mode of life to produce that misery whiph he strives in vain to 
relieve. It is the pious slave breeder devoting the proceeds of every i 
tenth slave to buy a Sunday’s liberty for the rest. Some show their 
kindness to the poor by employing them in their kitchens. Would 
they not be kinder if they employed themselves there? You boast of 
spending a tenth part of your income in charity; maybe you should 
spend the nine tenths so, and be done with it. Society recovers only 
a tenth part of the property then. Is this owing to the generosity of 
him in whose possession it is found, or to the remissness of the offi- 
cers of justice? 

Philanthropy is almost the only virtue which is sufficiently appre- 
ciated by mankind. Nay, it is greatly overrated; and it is our selfish- 
ness which overrates it. A robust poor man, one sunny day here in 
Concord, praised a fellow townsman to me because, as he said, he 
was kind to the poor — ^meaning himself. The kind uncles and aunts 
of the race are more esteemed than its true spiritual fathers and 
mothers. . . . 

I believe that what so saddens the reformer is not his sympathy 
with his fellows in distress, but, though he be the holiest son of 
God, is his private ail. Let this be righted, let the spring come to him, 
the morning rise over his couch, and he will forsake his generous 
companions without apology. My excuse for not lecturing against the 
use of tobacco is that I never chewed it, that is a penalty which re- 
formed tobacco-chewers have to pay; though there are things 
enough I have chewed which I could lecture against. If you should 
ever be betrayed into any of these philanthropies, do not let your 
left hand know what your right hand does, for it is not worth know- 
ing. Rescue the drowning and tie your dioestrings. Take your time, 
and set about some free labor. . . . 

I read in the GuUstan, or Flower Garden, of Sheik Sadi of ffiiiraz, 
that “they asked a wise man, saying: ‘Of the many cdebrated trees 

250 



Walden 

whidi the Most God has created lofty and umbrageous, they 
call none azad, or free, excepting the cypress, which bears no fruit; 
what m}rstery is there in this?’ He replied: ‘Each has its appropriate 
produce and appointed season, during the continuance of which it 
is fresh and blooming, and during their absence dry and withered; 
to neither of which states is the cypress exposed, being always flour- 
ishing; and of this nature are the azads, or religious independents. 
Fix not thy heart on that which is transitory; for the Dijlah, or Ti- 
gris, will continue to flow through Baghdad after the race of caliphs 
is extinct; if thy hand has plenty, be liberal as the date tree; but if 
it affords nothing to give away, be an azad, or free man, like the cy- 
press.’ ” 

Where I Lived, and What I Lived For 

AT A CERTAIN SEASON of our life we are accustomed to consider 
jt\. every spot as the possible site of a house. I have thus surveyed 
the country on every side within a dozen miles of where I live. In 
imagination I have bought all the farms in succession, for all were 
to be bought, and I knew their price. I walked over each farmer’s 
premises, tasted his wild apples, discoursed on husbandry with him, 
took his farm at his price, at any price, mortgaging it to him in my 
mind; even put a higher price on it, took everything but a deed of it 
— ^took his word for his deed, for I dearly love to talk — cultivated it 
and him too to some extent, I trust, and withdrew when 1 had en- 
joyed it long enough, leaving him to carry it on. This experience 
entitled me to be regarded as a sort of real estate broker by my 
friends. Wherever I sat, there I might live, and the landscape radi- 
ated from me accordingly. What is a house but a sedes, a seat? — 
better if a country seat. I discovered many a site for a house not 
likely to be soon improved, which some might have thou^t too far 
from the village, but to my eyes the village was too far from it. Well, 
there I migjit live, I said; and there I did live, for an hour, a summer 
and a winter life; saw how I could let the years run off, buffet the 
winter through and see the spring come in. The future inhabitants 
of this region, wherever they may place their houses, may be sure 
that they have bemi anticipated. An afternoon sufficed to lay out 
the land into orchard, wood lot and pasture, and to decide what fine 

251 



Henry David Thoreau 
oaks or pines should be left to stand before the door, and whence 
each blasted tree could be seen to the best advantage; and then I 
let it lie, fallow perchance, for a man is rich in proportion to the 
number of things which he can afford to let alone. 

My imagination carried me so far that I even had the refusal of 
several farms — the refusal was all I wanted — ^but I never got my 
fingers burned by actual possession. The nearest that I came to ac- 
tual possession was when I bought the Hollowell place, and had be- 
gun to sort my seeds and collected materials^with which to make a 
wheelbarrow to carry it on or oil with; but before the owner gave me ' 
a deed of it, his wife — every man has such a wife — changed her 
mind and wished to keep it, and he offered me ten dollars to release 
him. Now, to speak the truth, I had but ten cents in the world, and 
it surpassed my arithmetic to tell if I was that man who had ten 
cents or who had a farm or ten dollars or all together. However, I 
let him keep the ten dollars and the farm too, for I had carried it far 
enough; or rather, to be generous, I sold him the farm for just what 
I gave for it, and, as he was not a rich man, made him a present of 
ten dollars, and still had my tei\ cents and seeds and materials for a 
wheelbarrow left. I found thus that I had been a rich man without 
any damage to my poverty. But I retained the landscape, and I have 
since annually carried off what it yielded without a wheelbarrow. 
With respect to landscapes, 

/ am monarch of all I survey. 

My right there is none to dispute. 

I have frequently seen a poet withdraw, having enjoyed the most 
valuable part of a farm, while the crusty farmer supposed that he 
had got a few wild apples only. Why, the owner does not know it 
for many years when a poet has put his farm into rhyme, the most 
admirable kind of invisible fence, has fairly impounded it, milked 
it, skimmed it and got all the cream, and left the farmer only the 
skimmed milk. . . . 

Old Cato, whose De Re Rustica is my Cultivator, says — and the 
only translation I have seen makes sheer nonsense of the passage 
— ^“When you think of getting a farm turn it thus in your mind, not 
to buy greedily; nor spare your pains to look at it, and do not think 
it enough to go around it once. The oftener you go there, the more 
it will please you, if it is good.” I think I shall not buy greedily, but 
go around and around it as long as I live, and be buried in it first, 
that it may please me the more at last 

252 



Walden 

The present was my next experiment of this kind, wUch I pro- 
posed to describe more at len^, for convenience putting the ex- 
perience of two years into one. As I have said, I do not propose to 
write an ode to dejection, but to brag as lustily as chanticleer in the 
morning, standing on his roost, if only to wake my neighbors up. 

When first I took up my abode in the woods, that is, began to 
spend my ni^ts as well as days there, which, by accident, was on 
Independence Day, or the Fourth of July, 1845, my house was not 
finished for winter, but was merely a defense against the rain, with- 
out plastering or chimney, the walls being of rough, weather-stained 
boards, with wide chinks, which made it cool at night. The upright 
white hewn studs and freshly planed door and window casings gave 
it a clean and airy look, especially in the mormng, when its timbers 
were saturated with dew, so that I fancied that by noon some sweet 
gum would exude from them. To my imagination it retained 
throughout the day more or less of this auroral character, remind- 
ing me of a certain house on a mountain which I had visited a year 
before. This was an airy and unplastered cabin, fit to entertain a 
traveling god, and where a goddess mig^t trail her garments. The 
winds which passed over my dwelling were such as sweep over the 
ridges of mountains, bearing the broken strains, or celestial parts 
only, of terrestrial music. The morning wind forever blows, the 
poem of creation is uninterrupted; but few are the ears that hear it. 
Olympus is but the outside of the earth everywhere. 

The only house I had been the owner of before, if I except a boat, 
was a tent, which I used occasionally when making excursions in 
the summer, and this is still rolled up in my garret; but the boat, 
after passing from hand to hand, has gone down the stream of time. 
With this more substantial shelter about me, I had made some prog- 
ress toward settling in the world. This frame, so slightly clad, was a 
sort of crystallization aroimd me and reacted on the builder. It was 
suggestive somewhat as a picture in outlines. I did not need to go 
outdoors to take the air, for the atmosphere within had lost hone of 
its freshness. It was not so much within-doors as behind a door 
where I sat, even in the rainiest weather. The Harivansha * says, 
“An abode without birds is like a meat without seasoning.” Sudi 
was not my abode, for I found myself suddenly neighbor to the 
birds; not by having imprisoned one, but having caged m 3 rself near 
them. I was not only nearer to some of those which commonly fre- 
* Appendix to the Hindu epic, the Mahabharata 


253 



Henry David Thoreau 
quent the garden and the orchard, but to those wilder and more 
thrilling songsters of the forest which never, or rarely, serenade a 
villager — the wood thrush, the veery, the scarlet tanager, the field 
sparrow, the whippoorwill and many others. 

I was seated by the shore of a small pond, about a mile and a half 
south of the village of Concord and somewhat higjher than it, in the 
midst of an extensive wood between that town and Lincoln, and 
about two miles south of that our only field ^own to fame. Con- 
cord Battleground; but I was so low in the wbods that the opposite 
shore, half a mile off, like the rest, covered with wood, was my most 
distant horizon. For the first week, whenever I looked out on the pond 
it impressed me like a tarn high up on the side of a mountain, its bot- 
tom far above the surface of other lakes, and, as the sun arose, I saw 
it throwing off its nightly clothing of mist, and here and there, by 
degrees, its soft ripples or its smooth refiecting surface was revealed, 
while the mists, like ghosts, were stealthily withdrawing in every di- 
rection into the woods, as at the breaking up of some nocturnal con- 
venticle. The very dew seemed to hang upon the trees later into the 
day than usual, as on the sides of mountains. 

This small lake was of most value as a neighbor in the intervals 
of a gentle rainstorm in August, when, both air and water being per- 
fectly still, but the sky overcast, midaftemoon had all the serenity of 
evening, and the wood thrush sang around, and was heard from 
shore to shore. A lake like this is never smoother than at such a time; 
and the clear portion of the air above it being shallow and darkened 
by clouds, the water, full of light and reflections, becomes a lower 
heaven itself so much the more important. From a hilltop near by, 
where the wood had been recently cut off, there was a pleasing vista 
southward across the pond, through a wide indentation in the hills 
which form the shore there, where their opposite sides sloping toward 
each other suggested a stream flowing out in that direction through a 
wooded valley, but stream there was none. That way I looked be- 
tween and over the near green hills to some distant and higher ones 
in the horizon, tinged with blue. Indeed, by standing on tiptoe I could 
catch a glimpse of some of the peaks of the still bluer and more dis- 
tant moimtain ranges in the northwest, those true-blue coins from 
heaven’s own mint, and also of some portion of the village. But in 
other directions, even from this point, I could not see over or beyond 
the woods which surrounded me. It is well to have some water in 
your neighborhood, to give buoyancy to and float the earth. One 

254 



Walden 

value even of the smallest well is that when you look into it you see 
that earth is not continent but insular. This is as important as that it 
keeps butter cool. When I looked across the pond from this peak to- 
ward the Sudbury meadows, which in time of flood I distinguished 
elevated perhaps by a mirage in their seething valley, like a coin in 
a basin, all the earth beyond the pond appeared like a thin crust in- 
sulated and floated even by this small sheet of intervening water, and 
I was reminded that this on which I dwelt was but dry land. 

Though the view from my door was still more contracted, I did not 
feel crowded or confined in the least. There was pasture enough for 
my imagination. The low shrub oak plateau to which the opposite 
shore arose stretched away toward the prairies of the West and the 
steppes of Tartary, affording ample room for all the roving families 
of men. “Tliere are none happy in the world but beings who enjoy 
freely a vast horizon,” said Damodara, when his herds required new 
and larger pastures. 

Both place and time were changed, and I dwelt nearer to those 
parts of the universe and to those eras in history which had most 
attracted me. Where I lived was as far off as many a region viewed 
nightly by astronomers. We are wont to imagine rare and delectable 
places in some remote and more celestial comer of the system, be- 
hind the constellation of Cassiopeia’s Chair, far from noise and dis- 
turbance. I discovered that my house actually had its site in such a 
withdrawn, but forever new and unprofaned part of the universe. 
If it were worthwhile to settle in those parts near the Pleiades or the 
Hyades, to Aldebaran or Altair, then I was really there, or at an 
equal remoteness from the life which I had left behind, dwindled and 
twinkling with as fine a ray to my nearest neighbor, and to be seen 
only in moonless nights by him. Such was that part of creation where 
I had squatted: 

There was a shepherd that did live, 

And held his thoughts as high 
As were the mounts whereon his flocks 
Did hourly feed him by. 

What should we think of the shepherd’s life if his flocks always wan- 
dered to hig^her pastures than his thoughts? 

Every morning was a cheerful invitation to make my life of equ^ 
simplicity, and I may say innocence, with Nature herself. I have 
been as sincere a worshiper of Aurora as the Greeks. I got up early 
and bathed in the pond; that was a religious exercise, and one of the 

255 



Henry David Thoreau 
best things which I did. They say that characters were engraven on 
the bathing tub of King Tching-thang to this effect: “Renew thyself 
completely each day; do it again and again and forever again.” I can 
understand that. Morning brings back Ae heroic ages. I was as much 
affected by the faint hum of a mosquito making its invisible and un- 
ima^able tour through my apartment at earliest dawn, when 1 was 
sitting with door and windows open, as I could be by any trumpet 
that ever sang of fame. It was Homer’s requiem; itself an Iliad and 
Odyssey in the air, singing its own wrath and wanderings. There was 
something cosmical about it; a standing advertisement, till forbidden, 
of the everlasting vigor and fertility of the world. The morning, which 
is the most memorable season of the day, is the awakening hour. 
Then there is least somnolence in us; and for an hour, at least, some 
part of us awakes which slumbers all the rest of the day and night. 
Little is to be expected of that day, if it can be called a day, to which 
we are not awakened by our Genius, but by the mechanical nudgings 
of some servitor, are not awakened by our own newly acquired force 
and aspirations from within, accompanied by the undulations of ce- 
lestial music, instead of factory beUs, and a fragrance filling the air — 
to a higher life than we fell asleep from; and thus the dar^ess bears 
its fruit, and proves itself to be good, no less than the light. 

That man who does not believe that each day contains an earlier, 
more sacred and auroral hour than he has yet profaned has despaired 
of life and is pursuing a descending and darkening way. After a par- 
tial cessation of his sensuous life, the soul of man, or its organs 
rather, are reinvigorated each day, and his Genius tries again what 
noble life it can make. All memorable events, I should say, transpire 
in morning time and in a morning atmosphere. The Vedas say, “All 
intelligences awake with the morning.” Poetry and art, and the fair- 
est and most memorable of the actions of men date from such an 
hour. All poets and heroes, like Memnon, are the children of Aurora 
and emit their music at sunrise. To him whose elastic and vigorous 
thought keeps pace with the sun, the day is a pe^tual morning. It 
matters not what the clocks say or the attitudes and labors of men. 
Morning is when I am awake and there is a dawn in me. Moral re- 
form is the effort to throw off sleep. Why is it that men give so poor 
an account of their day if they have not been slumbering? They are 
not such poor calculators. If they had not been overcome with drow- 
«ness, ffiey would have performed something. The millions are 
awake enough for physical labor; but only one in a million is awake 

256 



Walden 

enough for effective intellectual exertion, only one in a hundred 
millions to a poetic or divine life. To be avirake is to be alive. I have 
never yet met a man who was quite awake. How could I have looked 
him in the face? 

We must learn to reawaken and keep ourselves awake, not by 
mechanical aids, but by an infinite expectation of the dawn, which 
does not forsake us in our soundest sleep. I know of no more en- 
couraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his 
life by a conscious endeavor. It is something to be able to paint a par- 
ticular picture or to carve a statue, and so to make a few objects 
beautiful; but it is far more glorious to carve and paint the very at- 
mosphere and medium through which we look, which morally we 
can do. To affect the quality of the day, that is the highest of arts. 
Every man is tasked to make his life, even in its details, worthy of 
the contemplation of his most elevated and critical hour. If we re- 
fused, or rather used up, such paltry information as we get, the ora- 
cles would distinctly inform us how this might be done. 

I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front 
only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had 
to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived. 
I did not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear; nor did I 
wish to practice resignation, unless it was quite necessary. I wanted 
to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live as sturdily and 
Spartanlike as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath 
and shave close, to drive life into a comer and reduce it to its lowest 
terms and, if it proved to be mean, why then to get the whole and 
genuine meanness of it and publish its meanness to the world; or if 
it were sublime, to know it by experience and be able to give a true 
account of it in my next excursion. For most men, it appears to me, 
are in a strange uncertainty about it, whether it is of the devil or of 
God, and have somewhat hastily concluded that it is the chief end of 
man here to “glorify God and enjoy Him forever.” 

Still we live meanly, like ants; though the fable tells us that we 
were long ago changed into men; like pygmies we fig^t with cranes; 
it is error upon error and clout upon clout, and our best virtue has 
for its occasion a superfluous and evitable wretchedness. Our life is 
frittered away by detail. An honest man has hardly need to count 
more than his ten fingers, or in extreme cases he may add his ten 
toes and lump the rest. Simplicity, simplidty, sinqdidty! 1 say, let 
your affairs be as two or ffuee, and not a hundred or a thousand; 

257 



Henry David Thoreau 
instead of a million, count half a dozen, and keep your accounts on 
your thumbnail. In the midst of this chopping sea of civUized life, 
such are the clouds and' storms and quicksands and thousand-and- 
one items to be allowed for, that a man has to live, if he would not 
founder and go to the bottom and not make his port at all, by dead 
reckoning, and he must be a great calculator indeed who succeeds. 
Simplify, simplify. Instead of three meals a day, if it be necessary eat 
but one; instead of a himdred dishes, five; and reduce other t^gs 
in proportion. Our life is like a German coiifederacy, made up of 
petty states, with its boundary forever fluctuating, so that even a 
German cannot tell you how it is bounded at any moment. The na- 
tion itself, with all its so-called internal improvements, which, by the 
way, are ail external and superficial, is just such an unwieldy ^d 
overgrown establishment, cluttered with furniture and tripped up by 
its own traps, ruined by luxury and heedless expense, by want of cal- 
culation and a worthy aim, as the million households in the land; and 
the only cure for it, as for them, is in a rigid economy, a stem and 
more than Spartan simplicity of Ufe and elevation of purpose. It lives 
too fast. 

Men think that it is essential that the Nation have commerce and 
export ice and talk through a telegraph and ride thirty miles an hour, 
without a doubt, whether they do or not; but whether we should live 
like baboons or like men is a little uncertain. If we do not get out 
sleepers and forge rails and devote days and nights to the work, but 
go to tinkering upon our lives to improve them, who will build rail- 
roads? And if ra^oads are not built, how shall we get to Heaven in 
season? But if we stay at home and mind our business, who will want 
railroads? We do not ride on the railroad; it rides upon us. Did you 
ever think what those sleepers are that underlie the railroad? Each 
one is a man, an Irishman or a Yankee man. The rails are laid on 
them, and they are covered with sand, and the cars run smoothly 
over th^. They are sound sleepers, I assure you. And every few 
years a new lot is laid down and run over; so that if some have the 
pleasure of riding on a rail, others have the misfortune to be ridden 
upon. And when they run over a man that is walking in his sleep, a 
supernumerary deeper in the wrong position, and wake him up, they 
suddenly stop the' cars and make a hue and cry about it, as if this were 
an exception. I am g^ad to know that it takes a gang of men for every 
five miles to keep the deepers down and level in their beds as it is, for 
this is a si^ that they may sometime get up again. 

258 



Walden 

Why should we live with such hurry and waste of life? We are 
determined to be starved before we are hungry. Men say that a 
stitch in time saves nine, and so they take a thousand stitches today 
to save nine tomorrow. As for work, we haven’t any of any conse- 
quence. We have the Saint Vitus’ dance and cannot possibly ke^ 
our heads still. If I should only give a few pulls at the parish beU 
rope, as for a fire, that is, without setting the bell, there is hardly a 
man on his farm in the outskirts of Concord, notwithstanding that 
press of engagements which was his excuse so many times this morn- 
ing, nor a boy, nor a woman, I mi^t almost say, but would forsake 
all and follow that sound, not mainly to save property from the 
fiames, but, if we will confess the truth, much more to see it bum, 
since bum it must, and we, be it known, did not set it on fire — or 
to see it put out and have a hand in it, if that is done as handsomely; 
yes, even if it were the parish church itself. Hardly a man takes a 
half-hour’s nap after dinner, but when he wakes he holds up his head 
and asks, “What’s the news?” as if the rest of mankind had stood 
his sentinels. Some give directions to be waked every half-hour, 
doubtless for no other purpose; and then, to pay for it, they tell 
what they have dreamed. After a night’s sleep the news is as indis- 
pensable as the breakfast. “Pray tell me anything new that has hap- 
pened to a man anywhere on this globe” — and he reads over his 
coffee and rolls that a man has had his eyes gouged out this morn- 
ing on the Wachito River; never dreaming the while that he lives 
in the dark unfathomed mammoth cave of this world and has but 
the radiment of an eye himself. 

For my part, I could easily do without the post office. I think that 
there are very few important communications made through it. To 
speak critically, I never received more than one or two letters in my 
life — wrote this some years ago — ^that were worth the postage. The 
penny post is, commonly, an institution through which you seriously 
offer a man that penny for his thoughts which is so often safely of- 
fered in jest. And I am sure that I never read any memorable news 
in a newspaper. If we read of one man robbed or murdered or killed 
by accident, or one house burned, or one vessel wrecked, or one 
steamboat blown up, or one cow run over on the Western Railroad, 
or one mad dog kiUed, or one lot of grasshoppers in the winter, we 
never need read of another. One is enough. If you are acquainted 
with the principle, what do you care for a myriad instances and ap- 
plications? 


259 



Henry David Thoreau 

To a philosopher all news, as it is called, is gossip, and they who 
edit and read it are old women over their tea. Yet not a few are 
greedy after this gossip. There was such a rush, as I hear, the other 
day at one of the offices to learn the foreign news by the last arrival, 
that several large squares of plate glass belonging to the establish- 
ment were broken by the pressure — ^news which I seriously think a 
ready wit might write a twelvemonth or twelve years beforehand 
with sufficient accuracy. As for Spain, for instance, if you know how 
to throw in Don Carlos and the Infanta, and -Don Pedro and Seville 
and Granada, from time to time in the right proportions — ^they may 
have changed the names a little since I saw the papers — and serve 
up a bullfight when other entertainments fail, it will be true to the 
letter, and give us as good an idea of the exact state or ruin of 
things in Spain as the most succinct and lucid reports under this 
head in the newspapers; and as for England, almost the last signifi- 
cant scrap of news from that quarter was the revolution of 1649; 
and if you have learned the history of her crops for an average year, 
you never need attend to that thing again, unless your speculations 
are of a merely pecuniary character. If one may judge who rarely 
looks into the newspapers, nothing new does ever happen in foreign 
parts, a French revolution not excepted. 

What news! How much more important to know what that is 
which was never old! Kieou-he-yu (great dignitary of the state of 
Wei) sent a man to Confucius to know his news. Confucius 
caused the messenger to be seated near him and questioned him in 
these terms: “What is your master doing?” The messenger answered 
with respect: “My master desires to diminish the number of his 
faults, but he cannot come to the end of them.” The messenger be- 
ing gone, the philosopher remarked: “What a worthy messenger! 
What a worthy messenger!” The preacher, instead of vexing the ears 
of drowsy farmers on their day of rest at the end of the week — ^for 
Sunday is the fit conclusion of an ill-spent week, and not the fresh 
and brave beginning of a new one — ^with this one other draggjie-tail 
of a sermon, should shout with thundering voice, “Pause! Avast! 
Why so seeming fast, but deadly slow?” 

Shams and delusions are esteemed for soundest truths, while real- 
^ is fabulous. If men would steadily observe realties oiJv. ^d not 

allow '^miMlVes f6“be 'Sslud^jlife,' tb'iMmpare'it wllii' simli'ffiin^ 
as we know, would be like a fairy tale and the Arabian Nights En- 
tertainments. If we respected only what is inevitable and has a right 

260 


Walden 

to be, music and poetry would resound along the streets. When we 
are unhurried and wise, we perceive that only great and wmrthy 
things have any permanent and absolute existence, that petty fears 
and petty pleasures are but the shadow of the reality. This is always 
exhilarating and sublime. By closing the eyes and slumbering, and 
consenting to be deceived by shows, men establish and confirm 
their daily life of routine and habit everywhere, which still is built 
on purely illusory foundations. Children, who play life, discern its 
true law and relations more clearly than men, who fail to live it 
worthily, but who think that they are wiser by experience, that is, 
by failure. I have read in a Hindu book that “there was a king’s 
son, who, being expelled in infancy from his native city, was brought 
up by a forester and, growing up to maturity in that state, imaged 
himself to belong to the barbarous race with which he lived. One of 
his father’s ministers, having discovered him, revealed to him what 
he was, and the misconception of his character was removed, and 
he knew himself to be a prince. So soul,’’ continues the Hindu phi- 
losopher, “from the circumstances in which it is placed, mistakes its 
own character, until the truth is revealed to it by some holy teacher, 
and then it knows itself to be Brahma.” I perceive that we inhabit- 
ants of New England live this mean life that we do because our vi- 
sion does not penetrate the surface of things. We think that that is 
which appears to be. If a man should walk through this town and 
see only the reality, where, think you, worild the milldam go to? If 
he should give us an account of the realities he beheld Aere, we 
should not recognize the place in his description. Look at a meeting- 
house, or a courthouse, or a jail, or a shop, or a dwelling, and say 
what that thing really is before a true gaze, and they would all go 
to pieces in your accoimt of them. Men esteem truth remote, in the 
outskirts of the system, behind the farthest star, before Adam and 
after the last man. In eternity there is indeed something true and sub- 
lime. But all these times and places and occasions are now and 
here. God himself culminates in the present moment, and never 
be more divine in the lapse of all the ages. And we are enabled to 
apprehend all that is sublime and noble only by the perpetual in- 
stilling and drenching of the reality that surround us. The universe 
constantly and obediently answers to our conceptions; whether we 
travel fast or slow, the track is laid for us. Let us spend our lives in 
conceiving, then. The poet or the artist never yet had so fair and 
noble a design but some of his posterity at least could accomplish it. 

261 



Henry David Thoreau 

Let us spend one day as deliberately as Nature, and not be 
thrown off the track by every nutshell and mosquito’s wing that falls 
on the rails. Let us rise early and fast, or breakfast, gently and with- 
out perturbation; let company come and let company go, let the bells 
ring and the children cry — determined to make a day of it. Why 
should we knock under and go with the stream? Let us not be upset 
and overwhelmed in that terrible rapid and whirlpocd called a din- 
ner, situated in the meridian shallows. Weadier this danger and 
you are safe, for the rest of the way is dbvimhill. With unrelaxed 
nerves, with morning vigor, sail by it, looking another way, tied to 
the mast like Ulysses. If the engine whistles, let it whistle till it is 
hoarse for its pains. If the bell rings, why should we run? We will 
consider what kind of music they are like. Let us settle ourselves, 
and work and wedge our feet downward through the mud and slush 
of opinion and prejudice and tradition and delusion and appearance, 
that alluvion which covers the globe, through Paris and London, 
through New York and Boston and Concord, through Church and 
State, through poetry and philosophy and religion, till we come to 
a hard bottom and rocks in place, which we can call reality, and 
say, “This is, and no mistake”; and then be^, having a point 
d'appid, below freshet and frost and fire, a place where you might 
found a wall or a state, or set a lamp post safely, or perhaps a gauge, 
not a Nilometer, but a Realometer, that future ages mig^t know 
how deep a freshet of shams and appearances had gathered from 
time to time. If you stand right fronting and face to face to a fact, 
you will see the sun glimmer on both its surfaces, as if it were a 
scimitar, and feel its sweet ed^ dividing you through the heart and 
marrow, and so you will happily conclude your mortal career. Be it 
life or death, we crave only reality. If we are really dying, let us 
hear the rattle in our throats and feel cold in the extremities; if we 
are alive, let us go about our business. 

Time is but the stream I go fishing in. I drink at it; but while I 
drink, I see the sandy bottom and detect how shallow it is. Its thin 
current slides away, but etemi^ remains. I would drink deeper; fish 
in the sky, whose bottom is pebbly with stars. I cannot count one. 
1 know not the first letter of the alphabet. I have always been re- 
gretting that I was not as wise as the day I was bom. The intellect 
fe a dbaver; it discerns and rifts its way into the secret of things. 
1 do not wish to be any more busy with my hands than is iKcessary. 
My head is hands and feet. I feel all my best faculties concentrate 

262 



Walden 

in it. My instinct tells me that my head is an organ for burrowing, 
as some creatures use their snouts and forepaws, and with it 1 would 
mine and burrow my way through these hills. I think that the rich- 
est vein is somewhere hereabouts; so by the divining rod and thin 
rising vapors 1 judge; and here I will be^n to mine. . . . 


Sounds 

I DID NOT READ BOOKS the first summer; I hoed beans. Nay, I often 
did better than this. There were times when I could not afford 
to sacrifice the bloom of the present moment to any work, whether 
of the head or hands. I love a broad margin to my life. Sometimes, 
in a summer morning, having taken my accustomed bath, I sat in 
my suimy doorway from sumise till noon, rapt in a revery, amid 
the pines and hickories and sumacs, in undisturbed solitude and 
stillness, while the birds sang around or flitted noiseless through the 
house, until by the sun falling in at my west window, or the noise 
of some traveler’s wagon on the distant highway, I was reminded 
of the lapse of time. 1 grew in those seasons like com in the night, 
and they were far better than any work of the hands would have 
been. They were not time subtracted from my life, but so much over 
and above my usual allowance. I realized what the Orientals mean 
by contemplation and the forsaking of works. For the most part, 1 
minded not how the hours went. The day advanced as if to light 
some work of mine; it was morning, and lo! now it is evening, and 
nothing memorable is accomplished. Instead of singing like the 
birds, 1 silently smiled at my incessant good fortune. As the sparrow 
had its trill, sitting on the hickory before my door, so had I my 
chuckle or suppressed warble which he might hear out of my nest. 
My days were not days of the week, bearing the stamp of any 
heathen deity, nor were they minced into hours and fretted by the 
ticking of a clock; for I lived like the Puri * Indians, of whom it 
is said that “For yesterday, today and tomorrow they have only one 
word, and they express the variety of meaning by pointing bacl^ard 
for yesterday, forward for tomorrow, and overbad for the passing 
day.” This was sheer idleness to my fellow townsmen, no doubt; but 
if the birds and flowers had tried me by their standard, I should not 
have been found wanting. A man must find his occasions in him- 
* Town in Bengal, India, site of temple Jagannatfa (lord of the world) 

263 



Henry David Thoreau 
self, it is true. The natural day is very calm and will hardly reprove 
his indolence. 

I had this advantage, at least, in my mode of life, over those who 
were obliged to look abroad for amusement, to society and the the- 
ater, that my life itself was become my amusement and never ceased 
to be novel. It was a drama of many scenes and without an end. If 
we were always, indeed, getting our living and regulating our lives 
according to the last and best mode we had learned, we should 
never be troubled with ennui. Follow your genius closely enough, ., 
and it will not fail to show you a fresh prospect every hour. House- , 
work was a pleasant pastime. When my floor was dirty, I rose early, 
and, setting all my furniture out of doors on the grass, bed and bed- 
stead making but one budget, dashed water on ^e floor and sprin- 
kled white sand from the pond on it, and then with a broom 
scrubbed it clean and white; and by the time the villagers had 
broken their fast the morning sun had dried my house sufficiently to 
allow me to move in again, and my meditations were almost unin- 
terrupted. It was pleasant to see my whole household effects out on 
the grass, making a little pile like a gypsy’s pack, and my three- 
legged table, from which I did not remove the books and pen and 
ink, standing amid the pines and hickories. They seemed glad to get 
out themselves, and as if unwilling to be brought in. I was some- 
times tempted to stretch an awning over them and take my seat 
there. It was worthwhile to see the sun shine on these things and 
hear the free wind blow on them; so much more interesting most 
familiar objects look out of doors than in the house. A bird sits on 
the next bough, life everlasting grows under the table, and black- 
berry vines run around its legs; pine cones, chestnut burs, and straw- 
berry leaves are strewn about. It looked as if this was the way these 
forms came to be transferred to our furniture, to tables, chairs and 
bedsteads — ^because they once stood in their midst. . . . 

As I sit at my window this summer afternoon,, hawks are circling 
about my clearing; the tantivy of wild pigeons, flying by twos and 
threes athwart my view, or perching restless on the white pine 
boug^ behind my house, gives a voice to the air; a fi^ hawk dim- 
ples the glassy surface of the pond and brings up a fish; a mink 
steals out of the marsh before my door and seizes a frog by the 
shore; the sedge is bending under the weight of the reedbirds flit- 
ting hither and thither; and for the last half-hour I have heard the 

264 



Walden 

rattle of railroad cars, now dying away and then reviving like the 
beat of a partridge, conveying travelers from Boston to the country. 
For I did not live so out of the world as that boy who, as I hear, 
was put out to a farmer in the east part of the town, but ere long 
ran away and came home again, quite down at the heel and home- 
sick. He had never seen such a dull and out-of-the-way place; the 
folks were all gone off; why, you couldn’t even hear the whistle! I 
doubt if there is such a place in Massachusetts now: 

In truth, our village has become a butt 

For one of those fleet railroad shafts, and o’er 

Our peaceful plain its soothing sound is — Concord. 

The Fitchburg Railroad touches the pond about a hundred rods 
south of where I dwell. I usually go to the village along its cause- 
way, and am, as it were, related to society by this link. The men on 
the freight trains, who go over the whole length of the road, bow 
to me as to an old acquaintance, they pass me so often, and appar- 
ently they take me for an employee; and so I am. I too would fain 
be a track repairer somewhere in the orbit of the earth. 

The whistle of the locomotive penetrates my woods summer and 
winter, sounding like the scream of a hawk sailing over some farm- 
er’s yard, informing me that many restless city merchants are arriv- 
ing within the circle of the town, or adventurous country traders 
from the other side. As they come under one horizon, they shout 
their warning to get off the track to the other, heard sometimes 
through the circles of two towns. Here come your groceries, coun- 
try; your rations, countrymen! Nor is there any man so independent 
on his farm that he can say them nay. And here’s your pay for them! 
screams the countryman’s whistle; timber like long battering-rams 
going twenty miles an hour against the city’s walls, and chairs 
enough to seat all the weary and heavy-laden that dwell within them. 
With such huge and lumbering civility the country hands a chair to 
the city. All the Indian huckleberry hills are stripped, all the cran- 
berry meadows are raked into the city. Up comes the cotton, down 
goes the woven cloth; up comes the silk, down goes the woolen; up 
come the books, but down goes the wit that writes them. 

When I meet the engine with its train of cars moving off with 
planetary motion — or, rather, like a comet, for the beholder knows 
not if with that velocity and with that direction it will ever revisit 
this system, since its orbit does not look like a returning curve — 
with its steam cloud like a banner streaming behind in gcdden and 

265 



Henry David Thoreau 
^ver wreaths, like many a downy cloud which I have seen, high in 
the heavens, unfolding its masses to the light — as if this trav eling 
demigod, this cloud-compeller, would ere long take the sunset sky 
for the livery of his train; when I hear the iron horse make the hills 
echo with his snort like thunder, shaking die earth with his feet and 
breathing fire and smoke from his nostrils (what kind of winged 
horse or fiery dragon they will pot into the new mythology I don’t 
know), it seems as if the earth had got a r^pqjiow worthy to inhabit 
it. If all were as it seems, and men made the elements their serv-!; 
ants for noble ends! If the cloud that hangs over the engine were the 
perspiration of heroic deeds, or as beneficent as that which fioats . 
over the farmer’s fields, then the elements and Nature herself would 
cheerfully accompany men on their errands and be their escort. . . . 

Now that the cars are gone by and all the restless world with 
them, and the fishes in the pond no longer feel their rumbling, I 
am more alone than ever. For the rest of the long afternoon, per- 
haps, my meditations are interrupted only by the faint rattle of a car- 
riage or team along the distant hi^way. 

Sometimes, on Sundays, I heard the bells, the Lincoln, Acton, 
Bedford or Concord bell, when the wind was favorable, a faint, 
sweet and, as it were, natural melody, worth importing into the wil- 
derness. At a sufficient distance over the woods this sound acquires 
a certain vibratory hum, as if the pine needles in the horizon were 
the strings of a harp which it swept. All sound heard at the greatest 
possible distance produces one and the same effect, a vibration of 
the universal lyre, just as the intervening atmosphere makes a dis- 
tant ridge of earth interesting to our eyes by the azure tint it imparts 
to it. There came to me in this case a melody which the air had 
strained, and which had conversed with every leaf and needle of the 
wood, that portion of the sound which the elements had taken up 
and modulated and echoed firom vale to vale. The echo is, to some 
extent, an original sound, and therein is the ma^c and charm of it. 
It is not merely a repetition of what was worth repeating in the bell, 
but partty the voice of the wood; the same trivial words and notes 
sung by a wood nymph. 

At evening, the distant lowing of some cow in the horizon beyond 
the woods sounded sweet and melodious aiul at first I would mis- 
take it for the voices of certain minstrels by whom I was sometimes 
serenaded, who mig^t be straying over hill and dale; but socm 1 was 
not unpleasantly disappointed when it was prolonged into the cheap 

266 



Walden 

and natural music of the cow. I do not mean to be satirical, but to 
express my appreciation of those youths’ sinpng, when I state that 
I perceived clearly that it was akin to the music of the cow, and they 
were at length one articulation of Nature. 

Regularly at half past seven, in one part of the summer, after the 
evening train had gone by, the whippoorwills chanted their vespers 
for half an hour, sitting on a stump by my door, or upon the ridge- 
pole of the house. They would begin to sing almost with as much 
precision as a clock, within five minutes of a particular time, re- 
ferred to the setting of the sim, every evening. 1 had a rare oppor- 
tunity to become acquainted with their habits. Sometimes I heard 
four or five at once in different parts of the wood, by accident one 
a bar behind another, and so near me that 1 distinguished not only 
the cluck after each note, but often that singular buzzing sound like 
a fiy in a spider’s web, only proportionally louder. Sometimes one 
would circle around and around me in the woods a few feet distant 
as if tethered by a string, when probably I was near its eggs. They 
sang at intervals throughout the night, and were again as musical 
as ever just before and about dawn. 

When other birds are still, the screech owls take up the strmn, like 
mourning women their ancient u-lu-lu. Their dismal scream is truly 
Ben Jonsonian. Wise midnight hags! It is no honest and blunt tu- 
whit tu-who of the poets, but, without jesting, a most solemn grave- 
yard ditty, the mutual consolations of suicide lovers remembering 
the pangs and the delights of supernal love in the infernal groves- 
Yet I love to hear their wailing, their doleful responses, trilled along 
the woodside; reminding me sometimes of music and singing birds; 
as if it were the dark and tearful side of music, the regrets and sighs 
that would fain be sung. They are the spirits, the low spirits and 
melancholy forebodings, of fallen souls that once in human shape 
ni^twalked the earth and did the deeds of darkness, now expiating 
their «iw« with their wailing hymns or threnodies in the scenery of 
their transgressions. They ^ve me a new sense of the variety and 
capaci^ of that nature which is our common dwelling. Oh-o-o-o-o 
that I never had been bor-r-r-r-n! si^s one on this side of the pond, 
and circles with the restlessness of despair to some new perch on 
the gray oaks. Then — that I never had been bor-r-r-r-rU echoes an- 
other on the farther side with tremulous sincerity, and— bor-r-r-r-n! 
comes faintly from afar in the Lincoln woods. 

I was also sermiaded by a hooting owl. Near at hand you could 

267 



Henry David Thoreau 
fancy it the most melancholy sound in Nature, as if she meant by 
this to stereotype and make permanent in her choir the dying moans 
of a human being — some poor weak relic of mortality who has left 
hope behind and howls like an animal, yet with human sobs, on en- 
tering the dark vaUey, made more awful by a certain gurgling melo- 
diousness — find myself beginning with the letters gl when I try 
to imitate it — expressive of a mind which has reached the gelati- 
nous, mildewy stage in the mortification of aU healthy and courageous 
thought. It reminded me of ghouls and idiots and insane bowlings. . 
But now one answers from far woods in a strain made really melo- 
dious by distance — Hoo hoo hoo, hoorer hoo; and indeed for the ' 
most part are suggested only pleasing associations, whether heard 
by day or night, summer or winter. 

I rejoice that there are owls. Let them do the idiotic and mani- 
acal hooting for men. It is a sound admirably suited to swamps and 
twilight woods which no day illustrates, suggesting a vast and unde- 
veloped nature which men have not recognized. They represent the 
stark twilight and unsatisfied thoughts which all have. All day the 
sun has shone on the surface of some savage swamp, where the sin- 
gle spruce stands hung with usnea lichens, and small hawks circu- 
late above, and the chickadee lisps amid the evergreens, and the 
partridge and rabbit skulk beneath; but now a more dismal and 
fitting ^y dawns, and a different race of creatures awakes to express 
the meaning of Nature there. 

Late in the evening I heard the distant rumbling of wagons over 
bridges — a sound heard farther than almost any other at night — 
the baying of dogs, and sometimes again the lowing of some discon- 
solate cow in a distant barnyard. In the meanwhile all the shore 
rang with the trump of bullfrog, the sturdy spirits of ancient wine- 
bibbers and wassaUers, stiff unrepentant, trying to sing a catch in 
their Stygjian lake — ^if the Walden nymphs will pardon the compar- 
ison, for thougjh there are almost no weeds, there are frogs there — 
who would fain keep up the hilarious rules of their old festal tables, 
thougjbi their voices have waxed hoarse and solemnly grave, mock- 
ing at mirth, and the wine has lost its flavor, and become only liquor 
to distend their paunches, and sweet intoxication never comes to 
drown the memory of the past, but mere saturation and water- 
loggedness and distention. The most aldermanic, with his chin upon 
a heart-leaf, which serves for a napkin to his drooling chops, under 
this northern shore quaffs a deep draug|ht of the once scorned wa- 

268 



Walden 

ter, and passes arotmd the cup with the ejaculation tr-r-r-oonk, 
tr-r-r-oonk, tr-r-r-oonk! and strai^tway comes over the water from 
some distant cove the same password repeated, where the next in 
seniority and girth has gulped down to his mark; and when this ob- 
servance has made the circuit of the shores, then ejaculates the mas- 
ter of ceremonies, with satisfaction, tr-r-r-oonk! and each in his turn 
repeats the same down to the least distended, leakiest and flabbiest- 
paunched, that there be no mistake; and then the bowl goes around 
again and again, until the sun disperses the morning mist, and only 
the patriarch is not under the pond, but vainly bellowing troonk 
from time to time, and pausing for a reply. 

I am not sure that I ever heard the sound of cock-crowing from 
my clearing, and I thought that it might be worthwhile to keep a 
cockerel for his music merely, as a singing bird. The note of this 
once wild Indian pheasant is certainly the most remarkable of any 
bird’s, and if they could be naturalized without being domesticated, 
it would soon become the most famous sound in our woods, sur- 
passing the clangor of the goose and the hooting of the owl; and then 
imagjne the cackling of the hens to fill the pauses when their lords’ 
clarions rested! No wonder that man added this bird to his tame 
stock — ^to say nothing of the eggs and drumsticks. To walk in a win- 
ter morning in a wood where these birds abounded, their native 
woods, and hear the wild cockerels crow on the trees, clear and shrill 
for mUes over the resounding earth, drowning the feebler notes of 
other birds — ^think of it! It would put nations on the alert. Who would 
not be early to rise, and rise earlier and earlier every successive day 
of his life, till he became unspeakably healthy, wealthy and wise? 
This foreign bird’s note is celebrated by the poets of all countries 
along with the notes of their native songsters. All climates agree 
with brave chanticleer. He is more indigenous even than the natives. 
His health is ever good, his lungs are sound, his spirits never flag. 
Even the sailor on the Atlantic and Padfic is awakened by his 
voice; but its shrill sound never roused me from my slumbers. I kept 
neither dog, cat, cow, pig nor hens, so that you would have said there 
was a deficiency of domestic sounds; neither the chum nor the 
spinning whed nor even the singjng of the kettle nor the hissing of 
the um nor children crying to comfort one. An old-fashioned man 
would have lost his senses or died of ennui before this. Not even 
rats in the wall, for they were starved out, or rather were never 
baited inr— only squirrds on the roof and under the floor, a whip- 

269 



Henry David Thoreau 
poorwill on the ridgepole, a blue jay screaming beneath the win- 
dow, a hare or woodchuck under the house, a screech owl or a cat 
owl behind it, a flock of wild geese or a laughing loon on the pond, 
and a fox to bark in the night. Not even a lark or an oriole, those 
mild plantation birds, ever visited my clearing. No cockerels to crow 
nor hens to cackle in the yard. No yard! but unfenced nature readi- 
ing up to your very sills. A young forest growing up under your win- 
dows, and wild sumacs and blackberry vines breaking through into 
your cellar; sturdy pitch pines rubbing and creaking against th^ 
shingles for want of room, their roots reaching quite under the house] 
Instead of a scuttle or a blind blown off in the gale, a pine tre^l 
snapped off or tom up by the roots behind your house for fuel. In- 
stead of no path to the front-yard gate in the Great Snow, no gate, 
no front yard, and no path to the civilized world. 


Solitude 

T his is a delicious evening, when the whole body is one sense 
and imbibes delight through every pore. I go and come with a 
strange liberty in Nature, a part of herself. As I walk along the stony 
shore of the pond in my shirt sleeves, though it is cool as well as 
cloudy and windy, and I see nothing special to attract me, all the 
elements are unusually congenial to me. The bullfrogs trump to 
usher in the night, and the note of the whippoorwill is borne on the 
rippling wind from over the water. Sympathy with the fluttering al- 
der and poplar leaves almost takes away my breath; yet, like the 
lake, my serenity is rippled but not ruffled. These small waves raised 
by the evening wind are as remote from storm as the smooth reflect- 
ing surface. Though it is now dark, the wind still blows and roars in 
the wood, the waves still dash, and some creatures lull the rest with 
their notes. The repose is never complete. The wildest animals do 
not r^xjse, but seek their prey now; the fox mid skunk and rabbit 
now roam the fields and woods without fear. They are Nature’s 
watchmen — links which connect the days of animated life. 

When I return to my house I find that visitors have been there 
and 1^ their cards, either a bundi of flowers or a wreath of ever- 
green or a name in pencil on a yellow walnut leaf or a chip. They 
who come rarely to the woods take some little piece of the forest 
into thdr hands to play with by the way, vddch they leave, either 

270 



Walden 

iotentionally or acddentally. One has peeled a ^low wand, woven 
it into a ring and dropped it on my table. I could always tell if visi- 
tors had called in my absence, either by the bent twigs or grass, or 
the print of their shoes, and generally of what sex or age or quality 
they were by some slight trace left, as a flower dropped, or a bunch 
of grass plucked and thrown away, even as far off as the railroad, 
half a mile distant, or by the lingering odor of a cigar or pipe. Nay, 

I was frequently notifled of the passage of a traveler along the high- 
way sixty rods of! by the scent of his pipe. . . . 

I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time. To 
be in company, even with the best, is soon wearisome and dissipat- 
ing. I love to be alone. I never found the companion that was so 
companionable as solitude. We are for the most part more lonely 
when we go abroad among men than when we stay in our cham- 
bers. A man thinking or working is always alone, let him be where 
he will. Solitude is not measured by the miles of space that inter- 
vene between a man and his fellows. The really diligent student in 
one of the crowded hives of Cambridge College is as solitary as a 
dervish in the desert. The farmer can work alone in the field or the 
woods all day, hoeing or chopping, and not feel lonesome, because 
he is employed; but when he comes home at night, he cannot sit 
down in a room alone at the mercy of his thoughts, but must be 
where he can “see the folks,” and recreate and, as he thinks, re- 
munerate himself for his day’s solitude; and hence he wonders how 
the student can sit alone in the house all night and most of the day 
without ennui and “the blues”; but he does not realize that the stu- 
dent, though in the house, is still at work in his field and chopping 
in his woods, as the farmer in his, and in turn seeks the same rec- 
reation and socie^ that the latter does, thou^ it may be a more 
condensed form of it. 

Society is commonly too cheap. We meet at very short intervals, 
not having had time to acquire any new value for each other. We 
meet at meals three times a day and give each other a new taste of 
that old musty cheese that we are. We have had to agree on a cer- 
tain set of rules, called etiquette and politeness, to make this fre- 
quent meedng tolerable and that we need not come to open war. 
We meet at the post office and at the sociable amd about the fireside 
every nig^t; we live thick and are in each other’s way, and stumble 
over one another, and I think that we thus lose some respect for one 
another. Certaunly less frequency would suffice for all important and 

271 



Henry David Thoreau 
hearty communications. Consider the girls in a factory — ^never 
alone, hardly in their dreams. It would be better if there were but 
one inhabitant to a square mile, as where I live. The value of a man 
is not in his skin, that we should touch him. 

I have heard of a man lost in the woods and dying of famine and 
exhaustion at the foot of a tree, whose loneliness was relieved by 
the grotesque visions with which, owing to bodily weakness, his dis- 
eased imagination surrounded him, and which he believed to be 
real. So also, owing to bodily and mental health and strength, we! 
may be continually cheered by a like but more normal and natural \ 
society, and come to know that we are never alone. 

I have a great deal of company in my house; especially in the 
morning, when nobody calls. Let me suggest a few comparisons, that 
some one may convey an idea of my situation. I am no more lonely 
than the loon in the pond that laughs so loud, or than Walden Pond 
itself. What company has that lonely lake, I pray? And yet it has 
not the blue devils, but the blue angels in it, in the azure tint of its 
waters. The sun is alone, except in thick weather, when there some- 
times appear to be two, but one is a mock sun. God is alone, but 
the devil, he is far from being alone; he sees a great deal of com- 
pany; he is le^on. I am no more lonely than a single mullein or dan- 
delion in a pasture or a bean leaf or sorrel or a horsefly or a bumble- 
bee. I am no more lonely than the Mill Brook or a weathercock or 
the north star or the south wind or an April shower or a January 
thaw or the first spider in a new house. 

I have occasional visits in the long winter evenings, when the 
snow falls fast and the wind howls in Ae wood, from an old settler 
and ori^al proprietor, who is reported to have dug Walden Pond 
and stoned it and fringed it with pine woods; who tells me stories of 
old time and of new eternity; and between us we manage to pass 
a cheerful evening with social mirth and pleasant views of things, 
even without apples or cider — a most wise and humorous friend, 
whom I love much, who keeps himself more ^ret than ever did 
Goffe or Whalley *; and though he is thought to be dead, none can 
show where he is buried. An elderly dame, too, dwells in my neigih- 
borhood, invisible to most persons, in whose odorous herb garden 
I love to stroll sometimes, gathering simples and listening to her fa- 

* William Goffe and Edward Whalley, En^ish resides — the Restoration 
of Charles H they fled to the United l^tes and lived in hiding. 

272 



Walden 

bles; for she has a genius of unequaled fertility, and her memory 
runs back farther than mythology, and she can tell me the original 
of every fable, and on what fact every one is founded, for the in- 
cidents occurred when she was young. A ruddy and lusty old riamn, 
who delights in all weathers and seasons, and is likely to outlive all 
her children yet. 

The indescribable iimocence and beneficence of Nature — of sun 
and wind and rain, of summer and winter — such health, such cheer, 
they afford forever! And such sympathy have they ever with our 
race, that all Nature would be affected and the sun’s brightness fade, 
and the winds would sigh humanely, and the clouds rain tears, and 
the woods shed their leaves and put on mourning in midsummer if 
any man should ever for a just cause grieve. Shall I not have intel- 
ligence with the earth? Am I not partly leaves and vegetable mold 
myself? 

What is the pill which will keep us well, serene, contented? Not 
my or thy great-grandfather’s, but our great-grandmother Nature’s 
universal, vegetable, botanic medicines, by which she has kept her- 
self young always, outlived so many old Parrs f in her day, and 
fed her health with their decaying fatness. For my panacea, instead 
of one of those quack vials of a mixture dipped from Acheron and 
the Dead Sea, which come out of those long shallow black-schooner- 
looking wagons which we sometimes see made to carry bottles, let 
me have a draught of undiluted morning air. Morning air! If men 
will not drink of this at the fountainhead of the day, why, then, we 
must even bottle up some and sell it in the shops, for the benefit of 
those who have lost their subscription ticket to morning time in this 
world. But remember, it will keep quite till noonday even in the 
coolest cellar, but drive out the stopples long ere that and follow 
westward the steps of Aurora. I am no worshiper of Hy^ia, who 
was the daughter of that old herb doctor Aesculapius, and who is 
represented on monuments holding a serpent in one hand, and in 
the other a cup out of which the serpent sometimes drinks; but 
rather of Hebe, cupbearer to Jupiter, who was the daughter of Juno 
and wild lettuce, and who had the power of restoring gods and men 
to the vigor of youth. She was probably the only thoroughly sound- 
conditioned, healthy and robust young lady that evw walked the 
globe, and wherever she came it was spring, 
t Thomas (Old) Parr, En^ish centenarian 


273 



Visitors 


I THINK THAT 1 LOVE SOCIETY as much as most, and am ready 
enough to fasten myself like a bloodsucker for the time to any 
full-blooded man that comes in my way. I am naturally no hermit, 
but might possibly sit out the sturdiest frec^uenter of the barroom, 
if my business called me thither. ' ;; 

I had three chairs in my house; one for solitude, two for friendt 
ship, three for society. When visitors came in larger and unexpecteci\ 
numbers there was but the third chair for them all, but they generally 
economized the room by standing up. It is surprising how many great 
men and women a sm^ house wiU contain. I have had twenty-five 
or thirty souls, with their bodies, at once under my roof, and yet we 
often parted without being aware that we had come very near to one 
another. Many of our houses, both public and private, with their al- 
most innumerable apartments, their huge halls and their cellars for 
the storage of wines and other munitions of peace, appear to me ex- 
travagantly large for their inhabitants. They are so vast and magnifi- 
cent ^at the latter seem to be only vermin which infest them. I am 
surprised when the herald blows his summons before some Tremont 
or Astor or Middlesex House, to see come creeping out over the pi- 
azza for all inhabitants a ridiculous mouse, which soon again slinks 
into some hole in the pavement. . . . 

As for men, they will hardly fail one anywhere. I had more visitors 
while I lived in the woods than at any other period of my life; I 
mean that I had some. I met several there under more favorable cir- 
cumstances than I could anywhere else. But fewer came to see me 
on trivial business. In this respect, my company was winnowed by 
my mere distance &om town. I had withdrawn so far within the 
great ocean of solitude, into which the rivers of society empty, that 
for the most part, so far as my needs were concerned, only &e finest 
sediment was deposited around me. Besides, there were wafted to me 
evidences of unexplored and uncultivated continents on the other 
side. 

Who should come to my lodge this morning but a true Homeric or 
Paphlagonian * man — ^he had so suitable and poetic a name that I 
am sorry 1 cannot print it here — a Canadian, a wood-chopper and 
* N^ve of Paphlagonia, ancient kingdom in Asia Minor 



Walden 

post-maker, who can hole fifty posts in a day, who made his last sup- 
per on a woodchuck which his dog caught. He, too, has heard of 
Homer, and, “if it were not for books,” would “not know what to do 
rainy days,” though perhaps he has not read one wholly through for 
many rainy seasons. Some priest who could pronounce the Greek it- 
self taught him to read his verse in the Testament in his native par- 
ish far away; and now I must translate to him, while he holds the 
book, Achilles’ reproof to Patroclus for his sad countenance: 

Why are you in tears, Patroclus, like a young girl? 

Or have you alone heard some news from Phthia? 

They say that Menoetius lives yet, son of Actor, 

And Peleus lives, son of Aeacus, among the Myrmidons, 

Either of whom having died, we should greatly grieve. 

He says, “That’s good.” He has a great bundle of white oak bark un- 
der his arm for a sick man, gathered this Sunday morning. “I suppose 
there’s no harm in going after such a thing today,” says he. To him 
Homer was a great writer, though what his writing was about he did 
not know. A. more simple and natural man it would be hard to find. 
Vice and disease, which cast such a somber moral hue over the 
world, seemed to have hardly any existence for him. He was about 
twen^-eight years old and had left Canada and his father’s house a 
dozen years before to work in the States and earn money to buy a 
farm with at last, perhaps in his native country. He was cast in the 
coarsest mold: a stout but sluggish body, yet gracefully carried, with 
a thick simbumt neck, dark bushy hair and dull sleepy blue eyes, 
which were occasionally lit up with expression. He wore a fiat gray 
cloth cap, a dingy wool-colored greatcoat, and cowhide boots. He 
was a great consumer of meat, usually carrying bis dinner to his work 
a couple of miles past my house — ^for he chopped all summer — ^in a 
tin paQ; cold meats, often cold woodchucks and coffee in a stone bot- 
tle which danced by a string from his belt; and sometimes he offered 
me a drink. He came along early, crossing my bean field, .though 
without anxiety or haste to get to his work, such as Yankees exhibit. 
He wasn’t a-going to hurt himself. He didn’t care if he only earned 
his board. Frequently he would leave his dinner in the bushes, when 
his dog had caught a woodchuck by the way, and go back a mile and 
a half to dress it and leave it in the cellar of the house where he 
boarded, after deliberating first for half an hour whether he could 
not sink it in the pond safely till nightfall — Gloving to dwell long upon 
these themes. He would say, as he went by in the morning, “How 

275 



Henry David Thoreau 
thick the pigeons are! If working every day were not my trade, I 
could get all the meat I should want by hunting — ^pigeons, wo^- 
chucks, rabbits, partridges. By gosh! 1 could get all 1 should want for 
a week in one day. . . 

Many a traveler came out of his way to see me and the inside of my 
house, and, as an excuse for calling, asked for a glass of water. I told 
them that I drank at the pond, and pointed thither, offering to lend 
them a dipper. Far off as I lived, I was not exempted from that an- 
nual visitation which occurs, I think, about the first of April, wheh 
everybody is on the move; and I had my share of good luck, though 
there were some curious specimens among my visitors. Half-witted 
men from the almshouse and elsewhere came to see me; but I en- 
deavored to make them exercise all the wit they had and make their 
confessions to me; in such cases making wit the theme of our conver- 
sation; and so was compensated. Indeed, I found some of them to be 
wiser than the so-called overseers of the poor and selectmen of the 
town, and thought it was time that the tables were turned. With re- 
spect to wit, I learned that there was not much difference between 
the half and the whole. One day, in particular, an inoffensive, simple- 
minded pauper, whom with others I had often seen used as fencing 
stuff, standing or sitting on a bushel in the fields to keep cattle and 
himself from straying, visited me and expressed a wish to live as 1 
did. He told me, with the utmost simplicity and truth, quite superior, 
or rather inferior, to anything that is called humility, that he was “de- 
ficient in intellect.” These were his words. The Lord had made him 
so, yet he supposed the Lord cared as much for him as for another. 
“I have always been so,” said he, “from my childhood; I never had 
much mind; I was not like other children; I am weak in the head. It 
was the Lord’s will, I suppose.” And there he was to prove the truth 
of his words. He was a metaphysical puzzle to me. I have rarely met 
a fellow man on such promising ground — ^it was so simple and sin- 
cere and so true, all that he said. And, true enough, in proportion as 
he appeared to humble himself was he exalted. I did not know at first 
but it was the result of a wise policy. It seemed that from such a basis 
of truth and frankness as the poor weak-headed pauper had laid, our 
intercourse might go forward to something better than the intercourse 
of sages. 

I had some guests from those not reckoned commonly among the 
town’s poor, but who should be; who are among the world’s poor, at 
any rate; guests who appeal not to your hospitality^ but to yotir hos- 

276 



Walden 

pitaUdity; vrho earnestly wish to be helped and preface their appeal 
with the information that they are resolved, for one thing s never to 
help themselves. I require of a visitor that he be not actually starving, 
though he may have the very best appetite in the world, however he 
got it. Objects of charity are not guests. Men who did not know when 
their visit had terminated, though I went about my business a g ain . 
answering them from greater and greater remoteness. Men of almost 
every degree of wit called on me in the migrating season. Some who 
had more wits than they knew what to do with; runaway slaves with 
plantation manners, who listened from time to time, like the fox in 
the fable, as if they heard the hounds baying on their track, and 
looked at me beseechingly, as much as to say, 

“O Christian, will you send me back?” 

One real runaway slave, among the rest, whom I helped to forward 
toward the north star. Men of one idea, like a hen with one chicken, 
and that a duckling; men of a thousand ideas, and unkempt heads, 
like those hens which are made to take charge of a hundred chickens, 
all in pursuit of one bug, a score of them lost in every morning’s dew 
— and become frizzled and mangy in consequence; men of ideas in- 
stead of legs, a sort of intellectual centipede that made you crawl all 
over. One man proposed a book in which visitors should write their 
names, as at the White Mountains; but, alas! I have too good a mem- 
ory to make that necessary. 

I could not but notice some of the peculiarities of my visitors. 
Girls and boys and young women generally seemed glad to be in the 
woods. They looked in the pond and at the flowers and improved 
their time. Men of business, even farmers, thought only of solitude 
and employment, and of the great distance at which I dwelt from 
something or other; and though they said that they loved a ramble in 
the woods occasionally, it was obvious that they did not. Restless 
committed men, whose time was all taken up in getting a living or 
keeping it; ministers who spoke of God as if they enjoyed a monop- 
oly of the subject, who could not bear all kinds of opinions; doctors, 
lawyers, uneasy housekeepers who pried into my cupboard and bed 

when I was out — ^how came Mrs to know that my sheets 

were not as clean as hers? — ^young men who had ceased to be young 
and had concluded that it was safest to follow the beaten track of 
the professions — all these generally said that it was not possible to 
do so much good in my position. Aye! there was the rub. The cdd and 
ittfinn and the timid, of whatever age or sex, thought most of sickness 

277 



Henry David Thoreau 
and sudden accident and death; to them life seemed full of danger — 
what danger is there if you don’t think of any? — and they thought 
that a prudent man would carefully select the safest position, where 
Dr. B. might be on hand at a moment’s warning. To them the village 
was literally a com-munity, a league for mutual defense, and you 
would suppose that they would not go a-huckleberrying without a 
medicine chest. The amount of it is, if a man is alive, there is always 
danger that he may die, though the dangej.must be allowed to be ^ess 
in proportion as he is dead-and-alive to begin with. A man siti as 
many risks as he runs. Finally, there were the self-styled refomWs, 
the greatest bores of all, who thought that I was forever singing, \ 
This is the house that I built; \ 

This is the man that lives in the house that / built; \ 
but they did not know that the third line was. 

These are the folks that worry the man 
That lives in the house that / built. 

I did not fear the hen-harriers, for I kept no chickens; but I feared 
the men-harriers rather. 

I had more cheering visitors than the last. Children came a-berry- 
ing, railroad men taking a Sunday morning walk in clean shirts, fish- 
ermen and hunters, poets and philosophers; in short, all honest pil- 
grims, who came out to the woods for freedom’s sake and really left 
the vUlage behind, I was ready to greet with, “Welcome, English- 
men! welcome, E nglishm en!’’ for I bad had communication with that 
race. 


The Ponds 

S ometimes, having had a surfeit of human society and gossip 
and worn out all my village friends, I rambled stfll farther west- 
ward than I habitually dwell, into yet more unfrequented parts of the 
town, “to fresh woods and pastures new,” or, while the sun was set- 
ting, made my supper of huckleberries and blueberries tm Fair Ha- 
ven Infill, and laid up a store for several days. The fruits do not yield 
th^.^? flavor to the purchaser of them, nor to him who raises them 
for the mmkei..3%ere is but one way to obtain it, yet few take that 
way. K you would knoiSf^ the flavor of huckleberries, ask the cowboy 

278 



Walden 

or the partridge. It is a vulgar error to suppose that you have tasted 
huckleberries who never plucked them. A huckleberry never reaches 
Boston; they have not been known there since they grew on her 
three hills. The ambrosial and essential part of the fruit is lost with 
the bloom which is rubbed off in the market cart, and they become 
mere provender. As long as Eternal Justice reigns, not one innocent 
huckleberry can be transported thither from the country’s hills. 

Occasionally, after my hoeing was done for the day, I joined some 
impatient companion who had been fishing on the pond since morn- 
ing, as silent and motionless as a duck or a floating leaf, and, after 
practicing various kinds of philosophy, had concluded commonly, by 
the time I arrived, that he belonged to the ancient sect of cenobites. 
There was one older man, an excellent fisher and skilled in all kinds 
of woodcraft, who was pleased to look upon my house as a building 
erected for the convenience of fishermen; and I was equally pleased 
when he sat in my doorway to arrange his lines. Once in a while we 
sat together on the pond, he at one end of the boat and I at the other; 
but not many words passed between us, for he had grown deaf in his 
later years, but he occasionally hummed a psalm, which harmonized 
well enough with my philosophy. Our intercourse was thus alto- 
gether one of unbroken harmony, far more pleasing to remember 
than if it had been carried on by speech. When, as was commonly 
the case, I had none to commune with, I used to raise the echoes by 
striking with a paddle on the side of my boat, filling the surrounding 
woods with circling and dilating sound, stirring them up as the keeper 
of a menagerie his wild beasts, until I elicited a growl from every 
wooded vale and hillside. 

In warm evenings I frequently sat in the boat playing the flute and 
saw the perch, which 1 seem to have charmed, hovering around me, 
and the moon traveling over the ribbed bottom, which was strewed 
with the wrecks of the forest. Formerly I had come to this pond ad- 
venturously, from time to time, in dark summer nights, with -a com- 
panion, and making a fire close to the water’s edge, which we thought 
attracted the fishes, we caught pouts with a bunch of worms strung 
on a thread, and when we had done, far in the night, threw the burn- 
ing brands high into the air like skyrockets, which, coming down into 
the pond, were quenched with a loud hissing, and we were suddenly 
groping in total darkness. Through this, whistling a tune, we took our 
Way to the haunts of men again. But now I had made my home by 
the shore. 


279 



Henry David Tkoreau 

Sometimes, after staying in a village parlor till the family had all 
retired, I have returned to the woods and, partly with a view to the 
next day’s dinner, spent the hours of midnight fishing from a boat by 
moonli^t, serenaded by owls and foxes and hearing, from time to 
time, the creaking note of some unknown bird close at hand. These 
experiences were very memorable and valuable to me — anchored in 
forty feet of water and twenty or thirty rods from the shore, sur- 
rounded sometimes by thousands of>small perch and shiners,/ dim- 
pling the surface with their tails in the moonlight, and communirating 
by a long fiaxen line with mysterious nocturnal fishes which ham their 
dwelling forty feet below, or sometimes dragging sixty feet on line 
about the pond as I drifted in the gentle night breeze, now and pen 
feeling a slight vibration along it, indicative of some life pro^^pig 
about its extremity, of dull uncertain blundering purpose there, and 
slow to make up its mind. At length you slowly raise, pulling hand 
over hand, some homed pout squeaking and squirming to the upper 
air. It was very queer, especially in dark nights, when your thoughts 
had wandered to vast and cosmogonal themes in other spheres, to 
feel this faint jerk, which came to intermpt your dreams and link you 
to Nature again. It seemed as if I might next cast my line upward 
into the air, as well as downward into this element, which was 
scarcely more dense. Thus I caught two fishes as it were with one 
hook. 

The scenery of Walden is on a humble scale and, though very 
beautiful, does not approach grandeur, nor can it much concern one 
who has not long frequented it or lived by its shore; yet this pond is 
so remarkable for its depth and purity as to merit a particular de- 
scription. It is a clear and deep green well, half a mile long and a 
mile and three quarters in circumference, and contains about sixty- 
one and a half acres; a perennial spring in the midst of pine and oak 
woods, without any visible inlet or outlet except by the clouds and 
evaporation. Ibe surrounding hills rise abruptly from the water to 
the height of forty to eigh^ feet, though on the southeast and east 
they attain to about one hundred and one hundred and fifty feet re- 
spectively, within a quarter and a third of a mile. They are exclu- 
sively woodland. AH our Ck>ncord waters have two colors at least; 
one when viewed at a (hstance, and another, more proper, close at 
hand. The first depends more on the lig^t and follows the sky. lo 
dear weather, in summer, they appear blue at ^ little distance, espe- 

280 



Walden 

dally if agitated, and at a great distance all appear alike. In sttmny 
weather they are sometimes of a dark slate color. The sea, however, 
is said to be blue one day and green another without any perceptible 
change in the atmosphere. I have seen our river when, the lanrisrape- 
being covered with snow, both water and ice were almost as green 
as grass. Some consider blue “to be the color of pure water, whether 
liquid or solid.” But, looking directly down into our waters from a 
boat, they are seen to be of very different colors. Walden is blue 
at one time and green at another, even from the same point of 
view. Lying between the earth and the heavens, it partakes of the 
color of both. Viewed from a hilltop it reflects the color of the sky; 
but near at hand it is of a yellowi^ tint next the shore where you 
can see the sand, then a light green, which gradually deepens to a 
uniform dark green, in the body of the pond. In some lights, viewed 
even from a hilltop, it is of a vivid green next the shore. Some have 
referred this to the reflection of the verdure; but it is equally green 
there against the railroad sandbank, and in the spring, before the 
leaves are expanded, and it may be simply the result of the prevail- 
ing blue mixed with the yellow of the sand. Such is the color of its 
iris. This is that portion, also, where in the spring, the ice, being 
warmed by the heat of the sun reflected from the bottom and also 
transmitted through the earth, melts first and forms a narrow canal 
about the still frozen middle. Like the rest of our waters, when much 
agitated, in clear weather, so that the surface of the waves may re- 
flect the sky at the right angle, or because there is more light mixed 
with it, it appears at a little distance of a darker blue than the sky 
itself; and at such a time, being on its surface, and looking with di- 
vided vision, so as to see the reflection, I have discerned a matchless 
and indescribable light blue, such as watered or changeable silks and 
sword blades suggest, more cerulean than the sky itself, alternating 
with the original dark green on the opposite sides of the waves, which 
last appeared but muddy in comparison. It is a vitreous greenish 
blue, as I remember it, like those patches of the winter sky seen 
through cloud vistas in the west before sundown. Yet a single glass 
of its water held up to the light is as colorless as an equal quantity 
of air. It is well known that a large plate of glass will have a green 
tint, owing, as the makers say, to its “body,” but a small piece of the 
same will be colorless. How large a body of Walden watw would be 
required to reflect a green tint I have never proved. The water of 
our river is black or a very dark brown to one looking direcfly down 

2gl 



Henry David Thoreau 
on it and, like that of most ponds, imparts to the body of one bathing 
in it a yellowish tinge; but this water is of such crystalline purity that 
the body of the bather appears of an alabaster whiteness, still more 
unnatural, which, as the limbs are magnified and distorted, produces 
a monstrous effect, making fit studies for a Michelangelo. 

The water is so transparent that the bottom can easily be discerned 
at the depth of twenty-five feet or thirty feet. Paddling over it, you 
may see, many feet teneath the surface, the schools of perch and 
shiners, perhaps only an inch long, yet tiieYormer easily distinguisl^ 
by their transverse bars, and you think that they must be ascetic nsh 
that find a subsistence there. Once in the winter many years ago 
when I had been cutting holes through the ice in order to catch pick- 
erel, as I stepped ashore, I tossed my ax back onto the ice, but, as 
if some evil genius had directed it, it slid four or five rods directly 
into one of the holes, where the water was twen^-five feet deep. Out 
of curiosity, 1 lay down on the ice and looked through the hole, un- 
til I saw the ax a little on one side standing on its head, with its 
helve erect and gently swaying to and fro with the pulse of the pond; 
and there it mi^t have stood erect and swaying till in the course 
of time the handle rotted off, if I had not disturbed it. Making an- 
other hole directly over it with an ice chisel which 1 had, and cut- 
ting down the longest birch which I could find in the neighborhood 
wiA my knife, I made a slip noose, which I attached to its end and, 
letting it down carefully, passed it over the knob of the handle, and 
drew it by a line along the birch, and so pulled the ax out again. 

The shore is composed of a belt of smooth rounded white stones 
like paving stones, excepting one or two short sand beaches, and is 
so steep that in many places a single leap will carry you into water 
over your head; and were it not for its remarkable transparency, 
that would be the last to be seen of its bottom till it rose on the 
(^>posite side. Some think it is bottomless. It is nowhere muddy, and 
a casual observer would say that there were no weeds at all in it; 
and of noticeable plants, except in the little meadows recently over- 
flowed, which do not properly bdong to it, a closer scrutiny does not 
detect a flag n<» a bulrush, nor even a lily, yellow or white, but only 
a few small heart-leaves, and potamogetons, and perhaps, a water 
target or two; all which however a bather might not perceive; and 
these plants are clean and bright like the element they grow in. The 
stm^ extend a rod or two mto the water, and then the bottom is 
pine sand, except in the deepest parts, where there is usually a little 

282 



Walden 

sediment, probably from the decay of the leaves which have been 
wafted onto it so many successive falls, and a bri^t green weed is 
brought up on anchors even in midwinter. 

We have one other pond just like this. White Pond, in Nine Acre 
Comer, about two and a half miles westerly; but, though I am ac- 
quainted with most of the ponds within a dozen miles of this center, 

I do not know a third of this pure and well-like character. Successive 
nations perchance have drunk at, admired and fathomed it, and passed 
away, and still its water is green and pellucid as ever. Not an inter- 
mitting spring! Perhaps on Aat spring morning when Adam and Eve 
were driven out of Eden, Walden Pond was already in existence, and 
even then breaking up in a gentle spring rain accompanied with mist 
and a southerly wind, and covered with myriads of ducks and geese, 
which had not heard of the fall, when still such pure lakes sufficed 
them. Even then it had commenced to rise and fall, and had clarified 
its waters and colored them of the hue they now wear, and obtained 
a patent of Heaven to be the only Walden Pond in the world and 
distiller of celestial dews. Who knows in how many unremembered 
nations’ literatures this has been the Castalian Fountain? or what 
nymphs presided over it in the Golden Age? It is a gem of the first 
water which Concord wears in her coronet. 

Yet perchance the first who came to this well have left some trace 
of their footsteps. I have been surprised to detect encircling the pond, 
even where a thick wood has just been cut down on the shore, a 
narrow shelf-like path in the steep hillside, alternately rising and 
falling, approaching and receding from the water’s edge, as old prob- 
ably as the race of man here, worn by the feet of aboriginal hunters, 
and still from time to time unwittingfly trodden by the present occu- 
pants of the land. This is particularly distinct to one standing on the 
middle of the pond in winter, just after a light snow has fallen, ap- 
pearing as a clear undulating white line, unobscured by weeds and 
twigs, and very obvious a quarter of a mile off in many places where 
in summer it is hardly distinguishable close at hand. The snow re- 
prints it, as it were, in clear white type alto-relievo. The ornamented 
grounds of villas which will one day be built here may still preserve 
some trace of this. 

The pond rises and falls, but whether regularly or not, and within 
what period, nobody knows, though, as usual, many pretend to 
know. It is commonly higher in the winter and lower in the summo:, 
thou^ not corresponding to the general wet and dryness. I can re- 

283 . 



Henry David Thoreau 
member when it was a foot or two lower, and also when it was at 
least five feet higher, than when I lived by it. There is a narrow sand 
bar running into it, with very deep water on one side, on which I 
helped boil a kettle of chowder, some six rods from the main shore, 
about the year 1824, which it has not been possible to do for twenty- 
five years; and, on the other hand, my friends used to listen with in- 
credulity when I told them that a few years later I was accustomed 
to fish from a boat in a secluded cove in t)ie woods, fifteen rods from 
the only shore they knew, which place was long since converted |[nto 
a meadow. But the pond has risen steadily for two years, and now, 
in the summer of ’52, is just five feet higher than when I lived there, 
or as high as it was thirty years ago, and fishing goes on again in the 
meadow. This makes a difference of level, at the outside, of six or 
seven feet; and yet the water shed by the surrounding hills is in»g- 
nificant in amount, and this overflow must be referred to causes 
which affect the deep springs. This same summer the pond has begun 
to fall again. It is remarkable that this fluctuation, whether periodical 
or not, appears thus to require many years for its accomplishment. I 
have observed one rise and a part of two falls, and I expect that a 
dozen or fifteen years hence the water will again be as low as I have 
ever known it. Flint’s Pond, a mile eastward, allowing for the dis- 
turbance occasioned by its inlets and outlets and the smaller inter- 
mediate ponds also, sympathize with Walden, and recently attained 
their greatest height at ^e same time with the latter. The same is 
true, as far as my observation goes, of White Pond. 

This rise and fall of Walden at long intervals serves this use at 
least; the water standing at this great height for a year or more, 
though it makes it difficult to walk around it, kills the shrubs and 
trees which have sprung up about its edge since the last rise — ^pitch 
pines, birches, alders, aspens and others — and, falling again, leaves 
an unobstructed shore; for, unlike many ponds and all waters which 
are subject to a daily tide, its shore is cleanest when the water is low- 
est On the side of the pond next my house a row of pitch pines, 
fifteen feet higjh, has been killed and tipped over as if by a lever, 
and thus a stop put to their encroachments; and their size indicates 
how many years have elapsed since the last rise to this height. By 
this fluctuation the pond asserts its title to a shore, and thus the shore 
is shorn, and the trees cannot hold it by ri^t of possesion. These are 
the lips of the lake, <m which no beard grows. It licks its chops from 
time to time. When the water is at its heigiht, the alders, willows and 

284 



Walden 

maples send forth a mass of fibrous red roots several feet long from all 
sides of their stems in the water, and to the height of three or four 
feet from the ground, in the effort to maintain themselves; and I have 
known the higji blueberry bushes about the shore, which commonly 
produce no fruit, bear an abundant crop under these circum- 
st&iiccs* • • • 

There have been caught in Walden pickerel, one weighing seven 
pounds — to say nothing of another which carried off a reel with great 
velocity, which the fisherman safely set down at eight pounds because 
he did not see him — ^perch and pouts, some of each weigjhing over 
two pounds, shiners, chivins or roach {Leuciscus pulchellus), a very 
few breams and a couple of eels, one weighing four pounds — I am 
thus particular because the weight of a fish is commonly its only title 
to fame, and these are the only eels I have heard of here. Also, I 
have a faint recollection of a little fish some five inches long, with 
silvery sides and a greenish back, somewhat dace-like in its charac- 
ter, which I mention here chiefiy to link my facts to fable. Neverthe- 
less, this pond is not very fertile in fish. Its pickerel, though not abun- 
dant, are its chief boast. I have seen at one time, lying on the ice, 
pickerel of at least three different kinds: a long and shallow one, 
steel-colored, most like those caught in the river; a bright golden 
kind, with greenish refiections and remarkably deep, which is the 
most common here; and another, golden-colored and shaped like the 
last, but peppered on the sides with small dark brown or black spots, 
intermixed with a few faint blood-red ones, very much like a trout. 
The specific names reticulatus would not apply to this; it should be 
guttatus rather. These are all very firm fish, and weigh more than 
their size promises. The shiners, pouts and perch also, and indeed all 
the fishes which inhabit this pond, are much cleaner, handsomer and 
firmer-fleshed than those in the river and most other ponds, as the 
water is purer, and they can easily be distinguished from them. Prob- 
ably many ichthyologists would make new varieties of some of them. 
There are also a dean race of frogs and tortoises and a few mussels 
in it; muskrats and minks leave their traces about it, and occasionally 
a traveling mud turtle visits it. Sometimes, when I pushed off my 
boat in the morning, I disturbed a great mud turtle which had se- 
creted himself under the boat in the nig|ht. Ducks and geese frequent 
it in the spring and fall, the white-bellied swallows {Hirundo bicolor ) 
^Idm over it, and the peetweets (Totanus macularim) “teeter” along 
its stony shores all summer. I have sometimes disturbed a firii hawk 

2»5 



Henry David Thoreau 
sitting on a white pine over the water; but I doubt if it is ever pro- 
faned by the wing of a gull, like Fair Haven. At most, it tolerates 
one annual loon. These are all the animals of consequence which 
firequent it now. 

You may see from a boat, in calm weather, near the sandy east- 
ern shore, where the water is eight or ten feet deep, and also in some 
other parts of the pond, some circular heaps half a dozen feet in di- 
ameter by a foot in hei^t, consisting ot small stones less than d hen’s 
egg in size, where all around is bare sand. At first you wondeil if the 
Indians could have formed them on the ice for any purpose, and so, 
when the ice melted, they sank to the bottom; but they are toolregu- 
lar and some of them plainly too fresh for that. They are similar to 
those found in rivers; but as there are no suckers nor lampreys here, 
I know not by what fish they could be made. Perhaps they are the 
nests of the chivin. These lend a pleasing mystery to the bottom. 

The shore is irregular enough not to be monotonous. I have in my 
mind’s eye the western, indented with deep bays, the bolder northern 
and the beautifully scalloped southern shore, where successive capes 
overlap each other and suggest unexplored coves between. ; The 
forest has never so good a setting, nor is so distinctly beautiful as 
when seen from the middle of a small lake amid hills which rise from 
the water’s edge; for the water in which it is reflected not only makes 
the best foreground in such a case, but, with its winding shore, the 
most natural and agreeable boundary to it. There is no rawness nor 
imperfection in its edge there, as where the ax has cleared a part, or a 
cultivated field abuts on it. The trees have ample room to expand on 
the water side, and each sends forth its most vigorous branch in that 
direction. There Nature has woven a natural selvage, and the eye rises 
by just gradations from the low shrubs of the shore to the highest 
trees. There are few traces of man’s hand to be seen. The water laves 
the shore as it did a thousand years ago. 

A lake is the landscape’s most beautiful and expressive feature. It 
is earth’s eye; looking into which the beholder measures the depth of 
his own nature. The fluviatile trees next the shore are the slender 
eyelashes which fringe it, and die wooded hills and clifis around are 
its overhanpng brows. 

Standing on the smooth santty beach at the east end of the pond, 
in a calm September aftmmoon, yrhen a slight haze makeis the op- 
posite sh(«e line indistinct, I have seen whence came the e^nession, 
**tfae glassy surface a lake.” When you invert your head, it looks 

286 



Walden 

like a thread of finest gossamer stretched across the valley, and 
gleaming against the distant pine woods, separating one stratum of 
the atmosphere from another. You would think that you could walk 
dry under it to the opposite hills, and that the swallows which skim 
over might perch on it. Indeed, they sometimes dive below the lin^, 
as it were by mistake, and are undeceived. As you look over the 
pond westward, you are obiiged to employ both your hands to defend 
your eyes against the reflected as well as the true sun, for they are 
equally bright; and if, between the two, you survey its surface criti- 
c^y, it is literally as smooth as glass, except where the skater insects, 
at equal intervals scattered over its whole extent, by their motions in 
the sun produce the finest imaginable sparkle on it, or, perchance, a 
duck plumes itself, or, as I have said, a swallow skims so low as to 
touch it. It may be that in the distance a fish describes an arc of three 
or four feet in the air, and there is one bright flash where it emerges 
and another where it strikes the water; sometimes the whole silvery 
arc is revealed; or here and there, perhaps, is a thistledown floating 
on its surface, which the fishes dart at and so dimple it again. It is 
like molten glass cooled but not congealed, and the few motes in it 
are pure and beautiful like the imperfections in g^ass. You may often 
detect a yet smoother and darker water, separated from the rest as 
if by an invisible cobweb, boom of the water nymphs, resting on it. 
From a hilltop you can see a fish leap in almost any part; for not a 
pickerel or shiner picks an insect from this smooth surface but it 
manifestly disturbs the equilibrium of the whole lake. It is wonderful 
with what elaborateness this simple fact is advertised — ^this piscine 
murder will out — and from my distant perch I distinguish the circling 
undulations when they are half a dozen rods in diameter. You can 
even detect a water bug {Gyrinus) ceaselessly progressing over 
the smooth surface a quarter of a mUe off; for they furrow the 
water slightly, making a conspicuous ripple bounded by two di- 
verging lines, but the skaters glide over it without rippling it per- 
ceptibly. When the surface is considerably agitated, there are no 
skaters nor water bugs on it but apparently, in calm days, they leave 
their havens and adventurously ^ide forth from the shore by short 
impulses till they completely cover it. It is a soothing employment, on 
one of those fine days in the fall when all the warmth of the sun is 
fully appreciated, to at on a stump on such a height as this, overlook- 
ing the pond, and study the dimpling circles which are incessantly 
inscribed on its otherwise invisible surface amid the reflected skies 

287 



Henry David Thoreau 
and trees. Over this great expanse there is no disturbance but it is 
thus at once gently smoothed away and assuaged, as, when a vase of 
water is jarred, the trembling circles seek the shore and all is smooth 
again. Not a fish can leap or an insect fall on the pond but it is thus 
reported in circling dimples, in lines of beauty,- as it were the con- 
stant welling up of its fountain, the gentle pulsing of its life, the heav- 
ing of its breast. The thrills of joy and ^ills of pain are undistin- 
guishable. How peaceful the phenomena of the lake! Again the 
works of man shine as in the spring. Aye, every leaf and twig and 
stone and cobweb sparkles now at midaftemoon as when covered 
with dew in a spring morning. Every motion of an oar or an insect 
produces a flash of light; and if an oar falls, how sweet the echo! 

On such a day, in September or October, Walden is a perfect for- 
est mirror, set around with stones as precious to my eye as if fewer 
or rarer. Nothing so fair, so pure, and at the same time so large, as a 
lake, perchance, lies on the surface of the earth. Sky water. It needs 
no fence. Nations come and go without defiling it. It is a mirror 
which no stone can crack, whose quicksilver will never wear off, 
whose gilding Nature continually repairs; no storms, no dust can 
dim its surface ever fresh — a mirror in which all impurity presented 
to it sinks, swept and dusted by the sun's hazy brush (this the light 
dust-cloth) which retains no breath that is breathed on it, but sends 
its own to float as clouds high above its surface and be reflected in 
its bosom still. 

A field of water betrays the spirit that is in the air. It is continually 
receiving new life and motion from above. It is intermediate in its 
nature between land and sky. Cn land only the grass and trees 
wave, but the water itself is rippled by the wind. I see where the 
breeze dashes across it by the streaks or flakes of light. It is remark- 
able that we can look down on its surface. We shffl, perhaps, look 
down thus on the surface of air at length, and mark where a still 
subtler spirit sweeps over it. . . . 

White Pond and Walden are great crystals on the surface of the 
earth. Lakes of Light. If they were permanently con^aled and small 
enougb to be clutched, they would, perchance, be carried off by 
daves like precious stones to adorn the heads of emperors; but being 
liquid and ample and secured to us and iour successors' forever, we 
diaegard them and run after the (flamond'of Kohiitoor. They are too 
pure to have a market value; they ccmtain no muck. How mudi more 

288 



Walden 

beautiful than our lives, how much more transparent than our char- 
acters are they! We never learned meanness from them. How much 
fairer than the pool before the farmer’s door, in which his 
svinm! Hither the clean wild ducks come. Nature has no human in- 
habitant who appreciates her. The birds with their plumage and their 
notes are in harmony with the flowers, but what youth or maiHftii 
conspires with the wild luxuriant beauty of Nature? She flourishes 
most alone, far from the towns where they reside. Talk of heaven! ye 
disgrace earth. 


Higher Laws 

A s 1 CAME HOME througih the woods with my string of fish, trailing 
. my pole, it being now quite dark, I caught a glimpse of a wood- 
chuck stealing across my pa^, and felt a strange thrill of savage de- 
light, and was strongly tempted to seize and devour him raw; not 
that I was hungry then, except for that wildness which he repre- 
sented. Once or twice, however, while I lived at the pond, I found 
myself ran^g the woods, like a half-starved hound, with a strange 
abandonment, seeking some kind of venison which I might devour, 
and no morsel could have been too savage for me. The wildest scenes 
had become unaccountably familiar. I found in myself, and still find, 
an instinct toward a higher, or, as it is named, spiritual life, as do 
most men, and another toward a primitive, rank and savage one, and 
I reverence them both. I love the wild not less than the good. The 
wildness and adventure that are in fishing still recommended it to 
me. I like sometimes to take rank hold on life and spend my day 
more as the animals do. Perhaps I have owed to this employment 
and to hunting, when quite young, my closest acquaintance wi& Na- 
ture. They early introduce us to and detain us in scenery with which 
otherwise, at that age, we should have Uttle acquaintance. Fisher- 
men, hunters, wood-choppers and others, spending their lives in the 
fields and woods, in a pecuUar sense a part of Nature themselves, 
are often in a more favorable mood for observing her, in the intervals 
of their pursuits, than philosophers or poets even, who apjwo^i her 
with expectation. She is not afraid to exhibit hersdf to thein. Tbe 
traveler on the prairie is naturally a hunter, on the head waters of 

289 



Henry David Thoreau 
the Missouri and Columbia a trapper, and at the Falls of St. Mary a 
fisherman. He who is only a traveler learns things at second hand 
and by the halves, and is poor authority. We are most interested 
when science reports what those men already know practically or in- 
stinctively, for that alone is a true humanity, or account of human 
experience. 

They mistake who assert that the Yankee has few amusements, 
because he has not so many public holidays,* and men and boys do 
not play so many games as they do in Engfland, for here the more 
primitive but solitary amusements of hunting, fishing and the like 
have not yet given place to the former. Almost every New England 
boy among my contemporaries shouldered a fowling piece between 
the ages of ten and fourteen; and his hunting and fishing grounds 
were not limited, like the preserves of an English nobleman, but were 
more boundless even than those of a savage. No wonder, then, that 
he did not oftener stay to play on the common. But already a change 
is taking place, owing, not to an increased humanity, but to an in- 
creased scarcity of game, for perhaps the hunter is the greatest 
friend of the animals hunted, not excepting the Humane Society. 

Moreover, when at the pond, I wished sometimes to add fish to 
my fare for variety. I have actually fished from the same kind of 
necessity that the first fishers did. Whatever humanity I might con- 
jure up against it was all factitious and concerned my philosophy 
more than my feelings. I speak of fishing only now, for I had long 
felt differently about fowling and sold my gun before I went to the 
woods. Not that I am less humane than others, but I did not perceive 
that my feelings were much affected. 1 did not pity the fishes nor the 
worms. Ibis was habit. As for fowling, during the last years that I 
carried a gun, my excuse was that I was studying ornithology and 
sougfht only new or rare birds. But I confess that I am now inclined 
to think that there is a finer way of studying ornithology than this. 
It requires so much closer attention to the habits of the birds that, if 
for that reason only, I have been willing to omit the gun. Yet not- 
withstanding the objection on the score of humanity, I am compelled 
to doubt if equally valuable sports are ever substituted for these; 
and when some of my friends have asked me anxioudy about their 
boys, whether they should let them hunt, 1 have answered, yes — 
remembering that it was one of the best parts of my education — 
make them hunters, though sportsmen only at first, if possible, 

290 



Walden 

hunters at last, so that they shall not find game large enough 
for them in this or any vegetable wilderness — Shunters as well as 
fishers of men. Thus far I am of the opinion of Chaucer’s nnn^ who 
. . . gave not of the text a pulled hen 
That saith that hunters be not holy men. 

There is a period in the history of the individual, as of the race, 
when the hunters are the “best men,” as the Algonquins called 
them. We cannot but pity the boy who has never fired a gun; he is 
no more humane, while his education has been sadly neglected. 
This was my answer with respect to those youths who were bent on 
this pursuit, trusting that they would soon outgrow it. No humane 
being past the thoughtless age of boyhood will wantonly murder any 
creature which holds its life by the same tenure that he does. The 
hare in its extremity cries like a child. I warn you, mothers, that my 
sympathies do not always make the usual phil-anthropic distmctions. 

Such is oftenest the young man’s introduction to the forest and 
the most original part of himself. He goes thither at first as a hunter 
and fisher, until at last, if he has the seeds of a better life in him, he 
distinguishes his proper objects, as a poet or naturalist it may be, 
and leaves the gun and fish pole behind. The mass of men are still 
and always young in this respect. In some countries a hunting par- 
son is no uncommon sight. Such a one might make a good shep- 
herd’s dog, but is far from being the Good Shepherd. I have been 
surprised to consider that the only obvious employment, except 
wood-chopping, ice-cutting, or the like business, which ever to my 
knowledge detained at Walden Pond for a whole half-day any of my 
fellow citizens, whether fathers or children of the town, with just 
one exception, was fishing. Commonly they did not think that they 
were lucky or well paid for their time unless they got a long string of 
fish, though they had the opportunity of seeing the pond all the 
while. They mi^t go there a thousand times before the sediment 
of fishing would sink to the bottom and leave their purpose pure; 
but no doubt such a clarifying process would be going on all the 
while. The Governor and his Council faintly remember the pond, 
for they went fishing there when they were boys; but now they are 
too old and dignified to go fishing, and so they know it no more for- 
ever. Yet even they expect to go to heaven at last. If the legislature 
regards it, it is chiefly to regulate the number of books to be used 
there; but they know nothing about the hook of hooks with which to 

291 



Henry David Thoreau 
an^e for the pond itself, impaling the legislature for a bait. Thus, 
even in civilized communities, the embryo man passes through the 
hunter stage of development. 

I have found repeatedly, of late years, that I cannot fish without 
falling a little in self-respect. I have tried it again and again. I have 
skill at it and, like many of my fellows, a certain instinct for it which 
revives from time to time, but always when I am done, I feel that it 
would have been better if I had not fished. I thijik that I do not mis- 
take. It is a faint intimation, yet so are the first streaks of morning. 
There is unquestionably this instinct in me which belongs to the 
lower orders of creation; yet with every year I am less a fisherman, 
though without more humanity or even wisdom; at present I am no 
fisherman at all. But I see that if I were to live in a wilderness, I 
should again be tempted to become a fisher and hunter in earnest. 
Besides, there is something essentially imclean about this diet and 
all flesh, and I began to see where housework commences, and 
whence the endeavor, which costs so much, to wear a tidy and re- 
spectable appearance each day, to keep the house sweet and free 
from all ill odors and sights. Having been my own butcher and scul- 
lion and cook, as well as the gentleman for whom the dishes were 
served up, I can speak from an unusually complete experience. The 
practical objection to animal food in my case was its uncleanness; 
and besides, when I had caught and cleaned and cooked and eaten 
my fish, they seemed not to have fed me essentially. It was insignifi- 
cant and unnecessary and cost more than it came to. A little bread 
or a few potatoes would have done as well, with less trouble and 
filth. Like many of my contemporaries, I had rarely for many years 
used animal food or tea or coffee, etc.; not so much because of any 
ill effects which I had traced to them, as because they were not 
agreeable to my imagination. The repugnance to animal food is not 
the effect of experience, but is an instinct. It appeared more beauti- 
ful to live low and fare hard in many respects; and thou^ I never 
did so, I went far enough to please my imaginatiofT I believe that 
every man who has ever been earnest to preserve his higher or po- 
etic faculties in the best condition has been particularly inclined to 
abstain from animal food, and from much food of any kind. It is a 
significant fact, stated by entomologists — ^I find it in Kirby and 
Spence — that **some insects in their perfect state, thou^ furnished 
with organs of feeding, make no use of them”; and they lay it down 
as “a general rule, that almost all insects in this state eat much less 

292 



Walden 

than in that of larvae. The voracious caterpillar when transformed 
into a butterfly . . . and the gluttonous maggot when become a 
fly” content themselves with a drop or two of honey or some other 
sweet liquid. The abdomen under the wings of the butterfly still rep- 
resents the larva. This is the tidbit which tempts his insectivorous 
fate. The gross feeder is a man in the larva state; and there are 
whole nations in that condition, nations without fancy or imagina- 
tion, whose vast abdomens betray them. 

It is hard to provide and cook so simple and clean a diet as will 
not offend the imagination; but this, I think, is to be fed when we 
feed the body; they should both sit down at the same table. Yet 
perhaps this may be done. The fruits eaten temperately need not 
make us ashamed of our appetites, nor interrupt the worthiest pur- 
suits. But put an extra condiment into your dish, and it will poison 
you. It is not worthwhile to live by rich cookery. Most men would 
feel shame if caught preparing with their own hands precisely such 
a dinner, whether of animal or vegetable food, as is every day pre- 
pared for them by others. Yet till this is otherwise, we are not civi- 
lized, and, if gentlemen and ladies, are not true men and women. 
This certainly suggests what change is to be made. It may be vain to 
ask why the imagination will not be reconciled to flesh and fat. I am 
satisfied that it is not. Is it not a reproach that man is a carnivorous 
animal? True, he can and does live, in a great measure, by preying 
on other animals; but this is a miserable way — as anyone who will 
go to snaring rabbits or slaughtering lambs may learn — and he will 
be regarded as a benefactor of his race who shall teach man to con- 
fine himself to a more innocent and wholesome diet. Whatever my 
own practice may be, I have no doubt that it is a part of the destiny 
of the human race in its gradual improvement to leave off eating 
animals, as surely as the savage tribes have left off eating each other 
when they came in contact with the more civilized. . . . 

Who has not sometimes derived an inexpressible satisfaction from 
his food in which appetite had no share? I have been thrilled to think 
that I owed a mental perception to the commonly gross sense of taste, 
that I have been inspired througji the palate, that some berries which 
I had eaten on a hillside had fed my genius. “The soul not being mis- 
tress of herself,” says Thseng-tseu, “one looks and one does not see; 
one listens and one does not hear; one eats and one does not know 
the savor of food,” He who distinguishes the true savor of his food 
can never be a button; he who does not cannot be otherwise. A puri- 

293 



Henry David Thoreau 
tan may go to his brown-bread crust with as gross an appetite as 
ever an alderman to his turtle. Not that food which entereth into the 
mouth defileth a man, but the appetite with which it is eaten. It is 
neither the quality nor the quantity, but the devotion to sensual 
savors; when that which is eaten is not a viand to sustain our animal 
or inspire our spiritual life, but food for the worms that possess us. 
If the hunter has a taste for mud turtles, muskrats and other such 
savage tidbits, the fine lady indulges a taste for jelly made of a calf s 
foot or for sardines from over the sea, and they are even. He goes to 
the mill pond, she to her preserve pot. The wonder is how they, how 
you and I, can live this slimy, beastly life, eating and drinking. 

Our whole life is startlingly moral. There is never an instant’s 
truce between virtue and vice. Goodness is the only investment that 
never fails. In the music of the harp which trembles around the world, 
it is the insisting on this which thrills us. The harp is the traveling 
patterer for the Universe’s Insurance Company, recommending its 
laws, and our little goodness is all the assessment that we pay. Though 
the youth at last grows indifferent, the laws of the universe are not 
indifferent, but are forever on the side of the most sensitive. Listen 
to every zephyr for some reproof, for it is surely there, and he is un- 
fortunate who does not hear it. We cannot touch a string or move a 
stop but the charming moral transfixes us. Many an irksome noise, 
go a long way off, is heard as music, a proud, sweet satire on the 
meanness of our lives. 

We are conscious of an animal in us, which awakens in propor- 
tion as our higher nature slumbers. It is reptile and sensual and per- 
haps cannot be wholly expelled; like the worms which, even in life 
and health, occupy our bodies. Possibly we may withdraw from it, 
but never change its nature. I fear that it may enjoy a certain health 
of its own; that we may be well, yet not pure. The other day I picked 
up the lower jaw of a hog, with white and sound teeth and tusks, 
which suggested that there was an animal health and vigor distinct 
from the spiritual. This creature succeeded by other means than 
temperance and purity. “That in which men differ from brute 
beasts,” says Mencius,* “is a thing very inconsiderable; the com- 
mon herd lose it very soon; superior men preserve it carefully.” Who 
knows what sort of ^e would result if we had attained to purity? If I 
knew so wise a man as could teadi me puii^ I would go se^ him 
forthwith. A conunand over our passions and over the external 
* CSiinese pfaOosopher 

294 



Walden 

senses of the body and good acts is declared by the Veda to be in- 
dispensable in the mind’s approximation to God. Yet the spirit can 
for the time pervade and control every member and function of the 
body, and transmute what in form is the grossest sensuality into 
purity and devotion. The generative energy which, when we are 
loose, dissipates and makes us unclean, when we are continent, in- 
vigorates and inspires us. Chastity is the flowering of man; and what 
are called genius, heroism, holiness and the like are but various 
fruits which succeed it. Man flows at once to God when the channel 
of purity is open. By turns our purity inspires and our impurity casts 
us down. He is blessed who is assured that the animal is dying out in 
him day by day, and the divine being established. Perhaps there is 
none but has cause for shame on account of the inferior and brutish 
nature to which he is allied. I fear that we are such gods or demigods 
only as fauns and satyrs, the divine allied to beasts, the creatures of 
appetite, and that, to some extent, our very life is our disgrace. 

How happy’s he who hath due place assigned 
To his beasts and cUsafforested his mindl 
.*••••••• 

Can use his horse, goat, wolf and ev’ry beast. 

And is not ass himself to all the rest! 

Else man not only is the herd of swine, 

But he’s those devils too which did incline 
Them to a headlong rage, and made them worse. 

All sensuality is one, though it takes many forms; all purity is 
one. It is the same whether a man eat or drink or cohabit or sleep 
sensually. They are but one appetite, and we only need to see a per- 
son do any one of these things to know how great a sensualist he is. 
The impure can neither stand nor sit with purity. When the reptfle 
is attacked at one mouth of his burrow, he shows himself at another. 
If you would be chaste, you must be temperate. What is chastity? 
How shall a man know if he is chaste? He shall not know it. We have 
heard of this virtue, but we know not what it is. We speak conform- 
ably to the rumor which we have heard. From exertion come wis- 
dom and purity; from sloth ignorance and sensuality. In the student 
sensuality is a sluggish habit of mind. An unclean person is univer- 
sally a slothful one, one who sits by a stove, whom the sun shmes on 
prostrate, who reposes without being fatigued. If you would avmd 
and aU the sins, work earnestly, thougjh it be at cleaning 
a stable. Nature is hard to be overcome, but she must be overcome. 

295 



Henry David Thoreau 
What avails it that you are Christian, if you are not purer than the 
heathen, if you deny yourself no more, if you are not more religious? 
I know of many systems of religion esteemed heathenish whose pre- 
cepts fill the reader with shame and provoke him to new endeavors, 
though it be to the performance of rites merely. 

I hesitate to say these things, but it is not because of the subjects 
— care not how obscene my words are — ^but because I cannot 
speak of them without betraying my impuri^...We discourse freely 
without shame of one form of sensuality and are silent about an- 
other. We are so degraded that we cannot speak simply of the neces- 
sary functions of human nature. In earlier ages, in some countries, 
every function was reverently spoken of and regulated by law. Noth- 
ing was too trivial for the Hindu lawgiver, however offensive it may 
be to modem taste. He teaches how to eat, drink, cohabit, void ex- 
crement and urine and the like, elevating what is mean, and does 
not falsely excuse himself by calling these things trifles. 

Every man is the builder of a temple, called his body, to the god 
he worships, after a style purely his own, nor can he get off by ham- 
mering marble instead. We are all sculptors and painters, and our 
material is our own flesh and blood and bones. Any nobleness be- 
gins at once to refine a man’s featmes, any meanness or sensuality 
to imbrute them. 

John Farmer sat at his door one September evening after a hard 
day’s work, his mind still rurming on his labor more or less. Having 
bathed, he sat down to recreate his intellectual man. It was a rather 
cool evening, and some of his neighbors were apprehending a frost. 
He had not attended to the train of his thou^ts long when he heard 
someone playing on a flute, and that sound harmonized with his 
mood. Still he thought of his work; but the burden of his thought was 
that, though this kept running in his head and he found himself 
planning and contriving it against his will, yet it concerned him very 
little. It was no more than the scurf of his skin, which was constantly 
shufSed off. But the notes of the flute came home to his ears out of a 
different sphere from that he worked in, and suggested work for cer- 
tain faculties which slumbered in him. They gently did away with 
the street and the rillage and the state in which he lived. A voice said 
to him, “Why do you stay here and live this mean moiling life, when 
a gjlorious existence is possible for you? Those same stars twinkle 
over other fidds than these.’’ But how to come out of this condition 
and actually migrate thither? AU that he could think of was to prac- 

296 



Walden 

tice some new austerity, to let his mind descend into his body and 
redeem it, and treat himself with ever increasmg respect. . . . 


Brute Neighbors 

T he mice which haunted my house were not the common 
ones, which are said to have been introduced into the country, 
but a wild native kind not found in the village. I sent one to a distin- 
guished naturalist and it interested him much. When I was bmlding, 
one of these had its nest underneath the house, and before I had 
laid the second floor and swept out the shavings, would come out 
regularly at lunch time and pick up the crumbs at my feet. It prob- 
ably had never seen a man before; and it soon became quite famil- 
iar, and would run over my shoes and up my clothes. It could readily 
ascend the sides of the room by short impulses, like a squirrel, which 
it resembled in its morions. At length, as I leaned with my elbow on 
the bench one day, it ran up my clothes and along my sleeve and 
around and around the paper which held my dinner, while I kept the 
latter close, and dodged and played bopeep with it; and when at last 
I held still a piece of cheese between my thumb and finger, it came 
and nibbled it, sitting in my hand and afterward cleaned its face and 
paws, Uke a fly, and walked away. 

A phoebe soon built in my shed, and a robin for protection in a 
pine which grew against the house. In June the partridge {Tetrao 
umbellus), which is so shy a bird, led her brood past my windows, 
from the woods in the rear to the front of my house, clucking and 
calling to them like a hen, and in all her behavior proving herself 
the hen of the woods. The young suddenly disperse on your ap- 
proach, at a signal from the mother, as if a whirlwind had swept 
them away, and they so exactly resemble the dried kaves and 
twigs that many a traveler has placed his foot in the midst of a br^d 
and heard the whir of the old bird as she flew off, and her anxious 
calls and mewing, or seen her trail her wings to attract his attenrion, 
without suspecting their neighborhood. The parent will sometimes 
roll and spin around before you in such a dishabille, that you can- 
not, for a few moments, detect what kind of creature it is. The young 
squat still and flat, often running their heads imder a leaf, and mmd 
only their mother’s directions given from a distance, nor wiU your 
approach make them run again and betray themselves. You may 

297 



Henry David Thoreau 
even tread on them, or have your eyes on them for a minute, without 
discovering them. I have held them in my open hand at such a time, 
and still their only care, obedient to their mother and their instinct, 
was to squat there without fear or trembling. So perfect is this in- 
stinct, that once, when I had laid them on the leaves again, and one 
accidentally fell on its side, it was found with the rest in exactly the 
same position ten minutes afterward. They are not callow like the 
young of most birds, but more perfectly ^veloped and precocious 
even than chickens. The remarkably adult yet innocent expression 
of their open and serene eyes is very memorable. All intelligence 
seems reflected in them. They suggest not merely the purity of in- 
fancy, but a wisdom clarified by experience. Such an eye was not 
bom when the bird was, but is coeval with the sky it reflects. The 
woods do not yield another such a gem. The traveler does not often 
look into such a limpid well. The ignorant or reckless sportsman of- 
ten shoots the parent at such a time, and leaves these innocents to 
fall a prey to some prowling beast or bird, or gradually min^e with 
the decaying leaves which they so much resemble. It is said that 
when hatched by a hen they will directly disperse on some alarm, 
and so are lost, for they never hear the mother’s call which gathers 
them again. These were my hens and chickens. 

It is remarkable how many creatures live wild and free though 
secret in the woods, and still sustain themselves in the neighborhood 
of towns, suspected by hunters only. How retired the otter manages 
to live here! He grows to be four feet long, as big as a small boy, per- 
haps without any human being getting a glimpse of him. 1 formerly 
saw the raccoon in the woods behind where my house is built, and 
pirobably still heard their whinnering at night. Commonly I rested an 
hour or two in the shade at noon, after planting, and ate my lunch, 
and read a little by a spring which was the source of a swamp and of 
a brook, oozing from under Brister’s Hill, half a mile from my field. 
The approach to this was through a succession of descending grassy 
hollows, full of young pitch pines, into a larger wood about the 
swamp. There, in a very secluded and shaded spot, under a spread- 
ing white pine, there was yet a clean, firm sward to sit on. I had dug 
out the spring and made a well of clear gray water, where I could 
dip up a pailful without roiling it, and thither I went for this purpose 
almost every day in midsummer, when the pond was warmest. 
IMther, too, the woodcock led her brood, to probe the mud for 
worms, flying but a foot above them down the bank, wh^ they ran 

298 



Walden 

in a troop beneath; but at last, spying me, she would leave her young 
and circle around and around me, nearer and nearer till within four 
or five feet, pretending broken wings and legs to attract my attention 
and get off her young, who would already have taken up their march 
with faint, wiry peep, single file through the swamp, as she directed. 
Or I heard the peep of the young when I could not see the parent 
bird. There too the turtledoves sat over the spring, or fluttered from 
bough to boug^h of the soft white pines over my head; or the red 
squirrel, coursing down the nearest bough, was particularly f amiliar 
and inquisitive. You only need sit still long enou^ in some attractive 
spot in the woods that all its inhabitants may exhibit themselves to 
you by turns. 

I was witness to events of a less peaceful character. One day when 
I went out to my woodpile, or rather my pile of stumps, I observed 
two large ants, the one red, the other much larger, nearly half an 
inch long, and black, fiercely contending with one another. Ha^ong 
once got hold they never let go, but struggled and wrestled and rolled 
on the chips incessantly. Looking farther, I was surprised to find that 
the chips were covered with such combatants, that it was not a duel- 
lum but a bellum, a war between two races of ants, the red always 
pitted against the black, and frequently two red ones to one black. 
The legions of these Myrmidons covered all the hills and vales in my 
wood yard, and the ground was already strewn with the dead and 
dying, both red and black. It was the only battle which I have ever 
witnessed, the only battlefield I ever trod while the battle was rag> 
ing; internecine war; the red republicans on the one hand and the 
black imperialists on the other. On every side they were engaged in 
deadly combat, yet without any noise that I could hear, and human 
soldiers never fought so resolutely. I watched a couple that were fast 
locked in each other’s embraces, in a little sunny valley amid the 
chips, now at noonday prepared to fight till the sun went down, or 
life went out. The smaller red champion had fastened himself like a 
vise to his adversary’s front, and through all the tumblings on that 
field never for an instant ceased to gnaw at one of his feelers near 
tlie root, having already caused the other to go by the board; while 
the stroi^r black one dashed him from side to side and, as I saw on 
looking nearer, had already divested him of several of his members. 
They fought with more pertinacity than bulldogs. 

Neither manifested the least disposition to retreat. It was evident 
that th^ battle cry was “Conquer or die.” In the meanwhile there 

299 



Henry David Thoreau 
came along a single red ant on the hillside of this vall^, evidently 
full of excitement, who either had dispatched his foe, or had not yet 
taken part in the battle; probably the latter, for he had lost none of 
his limbs; whose mother had charged him to return with his shield or 
upon it. Or perchance he was some Achilles, who had nourished his 
wrath apart, and had now come to avenge or rescue his Patroclus. 
He saw this unequal combat from afar — ^for the blacks were nearly 
twice the size of the red; he drew near with rhpid pace till he stood 
on his guard within half an inch of the combatants; then, watching 
his opportunity, he sprang upon the black warrior and commenced 
his operations near the root of his right foreleg, leaving the foe to se- 
lect among his own members; and so there were three united for life, 
as if a new kind of attraction had been invented which put all other 
locks and cements to shame. I should not have wondered by this time 
to find that they had their respective musical bands stationed on 
some eminent chip, and playing their national airs the while, to ex- 
cite the slow and cheer the dying combatants. I was myself excited 
somewhat even as if they had been men. The more you think of it, 
the less the difference. And certainly there is not the fight recorded 
in Concord history, at least, if in the history of America, that will bear 
a moment’s comparison with this, whether for the numbers engaged 
in it or for the patriotism and heroism displayed. For numbers and 
for carnage it was an Austerlitz or Dresden. Concord Fight! Two 
killed on the patriots’ side, and Luther Blanchard wounded! Why 
here every ant was a Buttrick — ^“Fire! for God’s sake fire!” — and 
thousands shared the fate of Davis and Hosmer. There was not one 
hireling there. I have no doubt that it was a principle they fought for, 
as mudi as oiu: ancestors, and not to avoid a three-peimy tax on 
their tea; and the results of this battle will be as important and mem- 
orable to those whom it concerns as those of the Battle of Bunker 
Hill, at least. 

I took up the chip on which the three I have_ particularly de- 
scribed were struggling, carried it into my house and placed it under 
a tumbler on my window sill, in order to see the issue. Holding a 
microscope to the first-mentioned red ant, 1 saw that, though he was 
assiduously gnawing at the near foreleg of his enemy, having sev- 
ered his remaining feeler, his own breast was all tom away, expos- 
ing what vitals he had there to the jaws of the black warrior, whose 
breastplate was apparently too thick for him to pierce; and the dark 
carbuncles of the sufferer’s eyes shone with ferocity such as war only 

300 



Walden 

could excite. They stroked half an hour longer under the tumbler, 
and when I looked again the black soldier had severed the heads of 
his foes from their bodies, and the still living heads were hanging on 
either side of him like ghastly trophies at his saddle bow, still appar- 
ently as firmly fastened as ever, and he was endeavoring with feeble 
struggles, being without feelers and with only the remnant of a leg, 
and I know not how many other wounds, to divest himself of them; 
which at length, after half an hour more, he accomplished. I raised 
the glass, and he went oil over the window sill in that crippled state. 
Whether he finally survived that combat, and spent the remainder of 
his days in some Hdtel des Invalides, I do not know; but I thought 
that his industry would not be worth much thereafter. I never 
learned which party was victorious, nor the cause of the war; but I 
felt for the rest of that day as if I had had my feelings excited and 
harrowed by witnessing the struggle, the ferocity and carnage of a 
human battle before my door. . . . 


Housewarming 

I N OCTOBER I WENT A-GRAPiNG to the river meadows, and loaded 
myself with clusters more precious for their beauty and fragrance 
than for food. There, too, 1 admired, though I did not gather, the 
cranberries, small waxen gems, pendants of the meadow grass, 
pearly and red, which the farmer plucks with an u^y rake, leaving 
the smooth meadow in a snarl, heedlessly measuring them by the 
bushel and the dollar only, and sells the spoils of the meads to Boston 
and New York; destined to be jammed, to satisfy the tastes of lovers 
of Nature there. So butchers rake the tongues of bison out of the 
prairie grass, regardless of the tom and drooping plant. The bar- 
berry’s brilliant fruit was likewise food for my eyes merely; but I col- 
lected a small store of wild apples for coddling, which the proprietor 
and travelers had overlooked. When chestnuts were ripe, I laid up 
half a bushel for winter. It was very exciting at that season to roam 
the then boundless chestnut woods of Lincoln — ^they now sleep their 
long sleep under the railroad — with a bag on my shoulder and a stick 
to open burs with in my hand, for I did not always wait for the frost, 
anud the rustling of leaves and the loud reproofs of the red squirrels 
and the jays, whose half-consumed nuts I sometimes stole, for the 
burs which they had selected were sure to contain sound ones. Occa- 

301 



Henry David Thoreau 
sionally I climbed and shook the trees. They grew also behind my 
house, and one large tree, which almost overshadowed it, was, 
when in flower, a bouquet which scented the whole neighborhood, 
but the squirrels and the jays got most of its fruit; the last coming in 
flocks early in the morning and picking the nuts out of the burs be- 
fore they fell. I relinquished these trees to them and visited the more 
distant woods composed wholly of chestnut. These nuts, as far as 
they went, were a good substitute for bread.* . 

When I came to build my chimney I studied masonry. My bricks, 
being second-hand ones, required to be cleaned with a trowel, so that 
I learned more than usual of the qualities of bricks and trowels. The 
mortar on them was fifty years old, and was said to be still growing 
harder; but this is one of those sayings which men love to repeat 
whether they are true or not. Such sayings themselves grow harder 
and adhere more firmly with age, and it would take many blows 
with a trowel to clean an old wiseacre of them. Many of the villages 
of Mesopotamia are built of second-hand bricks of a very good 
quali^, obtained from the ruins of Babylon, and the cement on them 
is older and probably harder still. However that may be, I was struck 
by the peculiar toughness of the steel which bore so many violent 
blows without being worn out. As my bricks had been in a chimney 
before, though I did not read the name of Nebuchadnezzar on them, 
I picked out as many fireplace bricks as I could find, to save work 
and waste, and I filled the spaces between the bricks about the fire- 
place with stones from the pond shore, and also made my mortar 
with the white sand from the same place. I lingered most about the 
fireplace, as the most vital part of the house. Indeed, I worked so de- 
liberately, that though 1 commenced at the ground in the morning, 
a course of bricks raised a few inches above the floor served for my 
pillow at night; yet I did not get a stiff neck for it that 1 remember; my 
stiff neck is of older date. I took a poet to board for a fortnight about 
those times, which caused me to be put to it for room. He brought 
his own knife, though I had two, and we used to scour them by 
thrusting them into the earth. He shared with me the labors of cook- 
ii^. I was pleased to see my work rising so square and solid by de- 
grees and reflected that if it proceeded slowly, it was calculate to 
endure a long time. The chimney is to some extent an independent 
structure, standing on the ground and rising through the house to the 



Walden 

heavens; even after the house is burned it still stands snmBtitnfs, and 
its importance and independence are apparent. This was toward the 
end of summer. It was now November. 

The north wind had already begun to cool the pond, though it took 
many weeks of steady blowing to accomplish it, it is so deep. When 
I began to have a fire at evening, before I plastered my house, the 
chimney carried smoke particularly well, because of the numerous 
chinks between the boards. Yet I passed some cheerful evenings in 
that cool and airy apartment, surrounded by the rough brown boards 
full of knots, and rafters with the bark on high overhead. My house 
never pleased my eye so much after it was plastered, thou^ I was 
obliged to confess that it was more comfortable. . . . 

I did not plaster till it was freezing weather. I brought over some 
whiter and cleaner sand for this purpose from the opposite shore of 
the pond in a boat, a sort of conveyance which would have tempted 
me to go much farther if necessary. My house had in the meanwhile 
been shingled down to the ground on every side. In lathing I was 
pleased to be able to send home each nail with a single blow of the 
hammer, and it was my ambition to transfer the plaster from the 
board to the wall neatly and rapidly. I remembered the story of a 
conceited fellow, who, in fine clothes, was wont to lounge about the 
village once, giving advice to workmen. Venturing one day to sub- 
stitute deeds for words, he turned up his cuffs, seized a plasterer’s 
board and, having loaded his trowel without mishap, with a com- 
placent look toward the lathing overhead, made a bold gesture 
thitherward; and straig^htway, to his complete discomfiture, received 
the whole contents in his ruffled bosom. I admired anew the econ- 
omy and convenience of plastering, which so effectually shuts out 
the cold and takes a handsome finish, and I learned the various cas- 
ualties to which the plasterer is liable. I was surprised to see how 
thirsty the bricks were which drank up all the moisture in my plaster 
before I had smoothed it, and how many pailfuls of water it takes 
to christen a new hearth. I had the previous winter made a small 
quantity of lime by burning the shells of the Unio fluviatiUs,* which 
our river affords, for the sake of the experiment; so that I knew 
where my materials came from. 1 might have got good limestone 
within a mile or two and burned it myself, if I had cared to do so. 
* Fresh-water mussd 


303 



Henry David Thoreau 

The pond had in the meanwhile skimmed over in the shadiest and 
shallowest coves, some days or even weeks before the general 
freezing. The first ice is especially interesting and perfect, being 
hard, dark, and transparent, and affords the best opportunity that 
ever offers for examining the bottom where it is shallow; for you can 
lie at your length on ice only an inch thick, like a skater insect on 
die surface of the water, and study the bottom at your leisure, only 
two or three inches distant, like a picture bejiind a glass, and the 
water is necessarily always smooth then. There are many furrows 
in the sand where some creature has traveled about and doubled on 
its tracks; and, for wrecks, it is strewn with the cases of caddis 
worms, made of minute grains of white quartz. Perhaps these have 
creased it, for you find some of their cases in the furrows, though 
they are deep and broad for them to make. But the ice itself is the 
object of most interest, though you must improve the earliest oppor- 
tunity to study it. If you examine it closely the morning after it 
freezes, you find that the greater part of the bubbles, which at first 
appeared to be within it, are against its under surface, and that 
more are continually rising from the bottom; while the ice is as yet 
comparatively solid and dark, that is, you see the water through it. 
These bubbles are from an ei^tieth to an eighth of an inch in di- 
ameter, very clear and beautiful, and you see your face refiected in 
them through the ice. There may be thirty or forty of them to a 
square inch. There are also already within the ice narrow oblong 
perpendicular bubbles about half an inch long, sharp cones with 
the apex upward; or oftener, if the ice is quite fresh, minute spheri- 
cal bubbles, one directly above another like a string of beads. But 
these within the ice are not so numerous nor obvious as those be- 
neath. . . . 

At length the winter set in in good earnest, just as I had finished 
plastering, and the wind began to bowl around the house as if it 
had not had permission to do so tiU then. Night aft^ night the geese 
came lumbering in in the dark vtith a clangor and a whistling of 
wings, even after the ground was covered with snow, some to alight 
in Walden, and some flying low over the woods toward Fair Haven, 
bound for Mexico. Several times, when returning from the village at 
ten or eleven o’clock at night, I heard the tread of a flock of geese, 
or else ducks, on the dry leaves in the woods by a p(Hid hole behind 

304 



Walden 

my dwelling, where they had come up to feed, and the faint honk 
or quack of their leader as they hurried off. . . . 

The snow had already covered the ground since the 25th of No- 
vember and surrounded me suddenly with the scenery of winter. 1 
withdrew yet farther into my shell and endeavored to keep a bright 
fire both within my house and within my breast. My employment 
out of doors now was to collect the dead wood in the forest, bring- 
ing it in my hands or on my shoulders, or sometimes trailing a dead 
pine tree under each arm to my shed. An old forest fence which had 
seen its best days was a great haul for me. I sacrificed it to Vulcan, 
for it was past serving the god Terminus.* How much more interest- 
ing an event is that man’s supper who has just been forth in the 
snow to hunt, nay, you might say, steal, the fuel to cook it with! His 
bread and meat are sweet. There are enough fagots and waste wood 
of all ifinHs in the forests of most of our towns to support many fires, 
but which at present warm none and, some think, hinder the growth 
of the young wood. There was also the driftwood of the pond. In 
the course of the summer I had discovered a raft of pitch-pine logs 
with the bark on, pinned together by the Irish when the railroad 
was built. This I hauled up partly on the shore. After soaking two 
years and then lying high six months, it was perfectly sound, though 
waterlogged past drying. I amused myself one winter day with slid- 
ing this piecemeal across the pond, nearly half a mile, skating be- 
hind with one end of a log fifteen feet long on my shoulder and 
the other on the ice; or I tied several logs together with a birch withe, 
and then, with a longer birch or alder which had a hook at the end, 
dragged them across. Though completely waterlogged and almost as 
heavy as lead, they not only burned long, but made a very hot fire, 
nay, I thought that they burned better for the soaking, as if the pitch, 
being confined by the water, burned longer, as if in a lamp. • • • _ 
The next winter I used a small cooking-stove for economy, since 
I did not own the forest; but it did not keep fire so well as the open 
fireplace. Cooking was then, for the most part, no longer a poetic, 
but merely a chemic process. It wiU soon be forgotten, in these days 
of stoves, that we used to roast potatoes in the ashes, after the In- 
dian fashion. The stove not only took up room and scented the 
house, but it concealed the fire, and I felt as if I had lost a com- 
panion. You can always sec a face in the fire. The laborer, lookmg 
* Burned it because it could no longer be used as a boundary marker. 

305 



Henry David Thoreau 
into it at evening, purifies his thoughts of the dross and earthinu gg 
which they have accumulated during the day. But 1 could no longer 
sit and look into the fire, and the pertinent words of a poet recurred 
to me with new force: 

Never, bright flame, may be denied to me 
Thy dear, life imaging, close sympathy. 

What but my hopes shot upward e’er so bright? 

What but my fortunes sunk so low in night? 

Why art thou banished from our hearth and hall. 

Thou who art welcomed and beloved by all? 

Was thy existence then too fanciful 

For our life’s common Ugkt, who are so dull? 

Did thy bright gleam mysterious converse hold 
With our congenial souls? secrets too bold? 

Well, we are safe and strong, for now we sit 
Beside a hearth where no dim shadows fUt, 

Where nothing cheers nor saddens, but a fire 
Warms feet and hands — nor does to more aspire; 

By whose compact utilitarian heap 
The present may sit down and go to sleep. 

Nor fear the ghosts who from the dim past walked. 

And with us by the unequal light of the old wood fire talked. 


The Pond in Winter 

A fter a still wtnter night I awoke with the impression that 
. some question had been put to me which I had been endeav- 
oring in vain to answer in my sleep, as what — ^how — ^when — ^where? 
But there was dawning Nature, in whom all creatures live, looking 
in at my broad windows with serene and satisfied face, and no ques- 
tion on her lips. I awoke to an answered question, to Nature and 
daylight- The snow lying deep on the earth dotted with young pines, 
and the very slope of the hill on which my house is placed seemed 
to say, “Forward!” Nature puts no question and answers none which 
we mortals ask. She has long ago taken her resolution. “O Prince, 
our eyes contemplate with admiration and transmit to the soul the 

306 



Walden 

wonderful and varied spectacle of this universe. The night veils with- 
out doubt a part of this gforious creation; but day comes to reveal 
to us this great work, which extends from earth even into the pining 
of the ether.” 

Then to my morning work. First I take an ax and pail and go in 
search of water, if that be not a dream. After a cold and snowy night 
it needed a divining rod to find it. Every winter the liquid and trem- 
bling surface of the pond, which was so sensitive to every breath, 
and reflected every light and shadow, becomes solid to the depth 
of a foot or a foot and a half, so that it will support the heaviest 
teams, and perchance the snow covers it to an equal depth, and it 
is not to be distinguished from any level field. Like the marmots 
in the surrounding hills, it closes its eyelids and becomes dormant 
for three months or more. Standing on the snow-covered plain, as 
if in a pasture amid the hills, I cut my way first through a foot of 
snow and then a foot of ice, and open a window under my feet, 
where, kneeling to drink, I look down into the quiet parlor of the 
fishes, pervaded by a softened light as through a window of ground 
glass, with its bright sanded floor the same as in summer; there a 
perennial waveless serenity reigns as in the amber twilight sky, cor- 
responding to the cool and even temperament of the inhabitants. 
Heaven is under our feet as well as over our heads. 

Early in the morning, while all things are crisp with frost, men 
come with fishing reels and slender lunch, and let down their fine 
lines through the snowy field to take pickerel and perch; wild men, 
who instinctively follow other fashions and trust other authorities 
than their townsmen, and by their goings and comings stitch towns 
together in parts where else they would be ripped. They sit and eat 
their luncheon in stout fearnoughts on the dry oak leaves on the 
shore, as wise in natural lore as the citizen is in artificial. They 
never consulted with books, and know and can tell much less than 
they have done. The things which they practice are said not yet to 
be known. Here is one fishing for pickerel with grown perch for bait. 
You look into his pail with wonder as into a summer pond, as if 
he kept Summer locked up at home, or knew where she had re- 
treated. How, pray, did he get these in midwinter? CMi, he got 
worms out of rottra logs since the ground froze, and so he caught 
them. His life itself passes deeper in nature than the studies the 
naturalist peiwtrate; himself a subject for the naturalist. The latter 
raises tiie moss and bark gently with his knife in search of insects; 

307 



Henry David Thoreau 
the formar lays open logs to their core with his ax, and moss and 
bark fly far and wide. He ^ts his living by barking trees. Such a 
man has some right to fish, and I love to see nature carried out in 
him. The perch swallows the grub worm, the pickerel swallows the 
perdi, and the fisherman swallows the pickerel; and so all the 
chinks in die scale of being are filled. 

When I strolled around the pond in misty weather I was some- 
times amused by the primitive mode which ‘Some ruder fisherman 
had adopted. He would perhaps have placed alder branches over 
the narrow holes in the ice, which were four or five rods apart and 
an equal distance from the shore and, having fastened the end of 
the line to a stick to prevent its being pulled through, have passed 
the slack line over a twig of the alder, a foot or more above the ice, 
and ded a dry oak leaf to it, which, being pulled down, would show 
when he had a bite. These alders loomed through the mist at regu- 
lar intervals as you walked halfway around the pond. 

Ah, the pickerel of Walden! When I see them lying on the ice, or 
in the well which the fisherman cuts in the ice, making a little hole 
to admit the water, I am always surprised by their rare beauty, as 
if they were fabulous fishes, they are so foreign to streets, even to 
the woods, foreign as Arabia to our Concord life. They possess a 
quite dazzling and transcendent beauty which separates them by a 
wide interval from the cadaverous cod and haddock whose fame is 
trumpeted in our streets. They are not green like the pines, nor gray 
like Ae stones, nor blue like the sky; but they have, to my eyes, if 
possible, yet rarer colors, like flowers and precious stones, as U they 
were the pearls, the animalized nuclei or crystals of the Walden wa- 
ter. They, of course, are Walden all over and all through; are them- 
selves small Waldens in the animal kingdom, Waldenses. It is sur- 
prising that they are caught here — ^that in this deep and capacious 
spring, far beneath the rattling teams and chaises and tinkling 
sleighs that travel the Walden road, this great gold and emerald fish 
swims. I never chanced to see its kind in any market; it would be 
the cynosure of all eyes there. Easily, with a few convulsive quirks, 
diey gtve up thdr watery ghosts, like a mortal translated before his 
time to the thin air of heaven. . . . 

In the winter of ’46-7 a hundred men of Hyperborean extraction 
swo(^>ed down on to our pond one morning, with many carloads of 
tutgaholy-looking farming tools — sleds, plows, drill bmrows, turf 

308 



Walden 

knives, spades, saws, rakes, and each man was armed with a double- 
pointed pikestaff, such as is not described in the New England 
Farmer or the Cultivator. I did not know whether they had come 
to sow a crop of winter rye, or some other kind of grain recently 
introduced from Iceland. As I saw no manure, I judged that they 
meant to skim the land, as I had done, thinking the soil was deep 
and had lain fallow long enough. They said that a gentleman 
farmer, who was behind the scenes, wanted to double his money, 
which, as I understood, amounted to half a million already; but in 
order to cover each one of his dollars with another, he took off the 
only coat, aye, the skin itself, of Walden Pond in the midst of a 
hard winter. They went to work at once, plowing, harrowing, rolling, 
furrowing, in admirable order, as if they were bent on making this 
a model farm; but when I was looking sharp to see what kind of seed 
they dropped into the furrow, a gang of feUows by my side suddenly 
began to hook up the virgin mold itself, with a peculiar jerk, clean 
down to the sand, or rather the water — ^for it was a very springy soil, 
indeed all the terra firma there was — and haul it away on sleds, and 
then I guessed that they must be cutting peat in a bog. So they came 
and went every day, with a peculiar shriek from the locomotive, 
from and to some points of the polar regions, as it seemed to me, 
like a flock of arctic snowbirds. But sometimes Squaw Walden had 
her revenge, and a hired man, walking behind his team, slipped 
through a crack in the ground down toward Tartarus, and he who 
was so brave before suddenly became but the ninth part of a man, 
almost gave up his animal heat and was glad to take refuge in my 
house and acknowledged that there was some virtue in a stove; or 
sometimes the frossen soil took a piece of steel out of a plowshare, or 
a plow got set in the furrow and had to be cut out. 

To speak literally, a hundred Irishmen, with Yankee overseers, 
came from Cambridge every day to get out the ice. They divided 
it into cakes by methods too well-known to require description, and 
these, being sledded to the shore, were rapidly hauled off on to an 
ice platform, and raised by grappling irons and block and tackle, 
worked by horses, on to a stack, as surely as so many barrels of 
flour, and there placed evenly side by side and row upon row, as if 
they formed the solid base of an obelisk designed to pierce the 
clouds. They told me that in a good day they could get out a thou- 
sand tons, which was the yield of about one acre. Deep ruts and 
“cradle-holes” were worn in the ice, as on terra firma, by the pas- 

309 



Henry David Thoreau 
sage of the ^ds over the same track, and the horses invariably ate 
their oats out of cakes of ice hollowed out like buckets. They stacked 
up the cakes thus in the open air in a pile thirty-five feet high on 
one side and six or seven rods square, putting hay between die out- 
side layers to exclude the air; for when the wind, thou^ never so 
cold, finds a passage through, it will wear large cavities, leaving 
slight supports or studs only here and there, and finally topple it 
down. At first it looked like a vast blue fort Qt Valhalla; but when 
they began to tuck the coarse meadow hay into the crevices, and this 
became covered with rime and icicles, it looked like a venerable 
moss-grown and hoary ruin, built of azure-tinted marble, the abode 
of Winter, that old man we see in the almanac — ^his shanty, as. if 
he had a design to estivate with us. They calculated that not twenty- 
five per cent of this would reach its destination, and that two or 
three per cent would be wasted in the cars. However, a still greater 
part of this heap had a different destiny from what was intended; 
for, either because the ice was found not to keep so well as was ex- 
pected, containing more air than usual, or for some other reason, 
it never got to market. This heap, made in the winter of ’46-7 and 
estimated to contain ten thousand tons, was finally covered with 
hay and boards; and though it was unroofed the following July, and 
a part of it carried off, Ae rest remaining exposed to the sun, it 
stood over that summer and the next winter, and was not quite 
melted till September, 1848. Thus the pond recovered the greater 
part. 

Like the water, the Walden ice, seen near at hand, has a green 
tint, but at a distance is beautifully blue, and you can easily tell it 
from the white ice of the river, or the merely greenish ice of some 
ponds a quarter of a mile off. Sometimes one of those great cakes 
slips from the iceman’s sled into the village street and lies there for 
a week like a great emerald, an object of interest to all passers. I 
have noticed that a portion of Walden, which in the state of water 
was green, will often, when frozen, appear from the same point of 
view blue. So the hollows about this pond will sometimes in the win- 
ter be filled with a greenish water somewhat like its own, but the 
next day will have frozen blue. Perhaps the blue color of water and 
ice is due to the light and air they contain, and the most transparent 
is the bluest. Ice is an interesting subject for contemjdation. They 
tokl me that they had some in the icehouses at Fresh Pond five 
years old which was as good as ever. Why is it that a bucket of wa- 

310 



Walden 

ter soon becomes putrid, but frozen remains sweet forever? It is 
commonly said that this is the difference between the affections and 
the intellect. 

Thus for sixteen days I saw from my mndow a hundred men at 
work like busy husbandmen, with teams and horses and apparently 
all the implements of farming, such a picture as we see on the first 
page of the almanac; and as often as I looked out, I was reminded 
of the fable of the lark and the reapers, or the parable of the sower, 
and the like; and now they are all gone, and in thirty days more, 
probably, I shall look from the same window on the pure sea-green 
Walden water there, refiecting the clouds and the trees, and sending 
up its evaporations in solitude, and no traces will appear that a man 
has ever stood there. Perhaps I shall hear a solitary loon laugh as 
he dives and plumes himself, or shall see a lonely fisher in his boat, 
like a floating leaf, beholding his form reflected in the waves, where 
lately a hundred men securely labored. 

Thus it appears that the sweltering inhabitants of Charleston and 
New Orleans, of Madras and Bombay and Calcutta, drink at my 
well. In the morning I bathe my intellect in the stupendous and cos- 
mogonal philosophy of the Bhagavad-Gita, since whose composi- 
tion years of the gods have elapsed, and in comparison with which 
our modem world and its literature seem puny and trivial; and I 
doubt if that philosophy is not to be referred to a previous state of 
existence, so remote is its sublimity from our conceptions. I lay down 
the book and go to my well for water, and lo! there I meet the serv- 
ant of the Brahman, priest of Brahma and Vishnu and Indra, who 
still sits in his temple on the Ganges reading the Vedas, or dwells 
at the root of a tree with his crust and water jug. I meet his servant 
come to draw water for his master, and our buckets, as it were, grate 
together in the same weU. The pure Walden water is mingled with 
the sacred water of the Ganges. With favoring winds it -is w^ted 
past the site of the fabuloxis islands of Atlantis and the Hesperides, 
makes the periplus * of Hanno, and, floating by Temate and Tidore 
and the mouth of the Persian Gulf, melts in the tropic gales of the 
TtiHiati seas, and is landed in ports of which Alexander only heard 
the names. 

* Circunmavigation 


311 



Spring 


T he opening of large tracts by the ice-cutters commonly 
causes a pond to break up earlier; for the water, agitated by the 
wind, even in cold weather, wears away the surrounding ice. But 
such was not the effect on Walden that year, 'for she had soon got 
a thick new garment to take the place of the old. This pond never 
breaks up so soon as the others in this neighborhood, on account 
both of its greater depth and its having no stream passing through 
it to melt or wear away the ice. I never knew it to open in the course 
of a winter, not excepting that of ’52-3, which gave the ponds so 
severe a trial. It commoidy opens about the first of April, a week 
or ten days later than Flint’s Pond and Fair Haven, beginning to 
melt on the north side and in the shallower parts where it began to 
freeze. It indicates better than any water hereabout the absolute 
progress of the season, being least affected by transient changes of 
temperature. A severe cold of a few days’ duration in March may 
very much retard Ae opening of the former ponds, while the tem- 
perature of Walden increases almost uninterruptedly. A thermom- 
eter thrust into the middle of Walden on the 6th of March, 1847, 
stood at 32°, or freezing point; near the shore at 33°; in the mid- 
dle of Flint’s Pond, the same day, at 32Vi°; at a dozen rods from 
the shore, in shallow water, under ice a foot thick, at 36°. This dif- 
ference of three and a half degrees between the temperature of the 
deep water and the shallow in the latter pond, and the fact that a 
great proportion of it is comparatively sh^ow, show why it should 
break up so much sooner than Walden. The ice in the shallowest 
part was at this time several inches thinner than in the middle. In 
midwinter the middle had been the warmest and the ice thinnest 
there. So, also, everyone who has waded about the shores of a pond 
in summer must have perceived how much warmer the water is close 
to the shore, where ody three or four inches deep, than a little dis- 
tance out, and on the surface where it is deep, than near the bottom. 
In spring the sun not only exerts an influence througjh the increased 
temperature of the air and earth, but its heat passes througih ice a 
foot (X more thick, and is reflected from the bottom in shallow wa- 
ter, and so also warms die water and melts the underside of the ice, 
at the same time thid it is mdting it more directly above, making 

312 



Walden 

it uneven and causing the air bubbles which it contains to extend 
themselves upward and downward until it is completely honey- 
combed and at last disappears suddenly in a sin^e spring rain. Ice 
has its grain as well as wood, and when a cake be^s to rot or 
“comb,” that is, assume the appearance of honeycomb, whatever 
may be its position, the air cells are at right angles with what was 
the water surface. Where there is a rock or a log rising near the 
surface, the ice over it is much thinner and is frequently quite dis- 
solved by this reflected heat; and I have been told that in the ex- 
periment at Cambridge to freeze water in a shallow wooden pond, 
thou^ the cold air circulated underneath, and so had access to both 
sides, the reflection of the sun from the bottom more than counter- 
balanced this advantage. When a warm rain in the middle of the 
winter melts oil the snow ice from Walden, and leaves a hard dark 
or tr ans parent ice on the middle, there will be a strip of rotten 
though thicker white ice, a rod or more wide, about the shores, 
created by this reflected heat. Also, as I have said, the bubbles them- 
selves within the ice operate as burning glasses to melt the ice be- 
neath. 

The phenomena of the year take place every day in a pond on a 
small scale. Every morning, generally speaking, the shallow water 
is being warmed more rapidly than the deep, thou^ it may not be 
made so warm after all, and every evening it is being cooled more 
rapidly until the morning. The day is an epitome of the year. The 
nigh t is the winter, the morning and evening are the spring and f^, 
and the noon is the summer. The cracking and booming of the ice 
indicate a change of temperature. One pleasant morning after a 
cold ni^t, February 24th, 1850, having gone to Flint’s Pond to 
spend the day, I noticed with surprise that when I struck the ice 
with the head of my ax, it resounded like a gong for many rods 
around, or as if I had struck on a ti^t drumhead. The pond began 
to boom about an hour after sunrise, when it felt the influence of 
the sun’s rays slanted upon it from over the hills; it stretehed itself 
and yawned like a waking man with a gradually increasing tumult, 
which was kept up three or four hours. It took a short sieste at noon, 
and boomed once more toward night, as the sun was with*awmg 
his influence. In the right stage of the weather a pond firw it® eve- 
ning gun with great regularity. But in the middle of the day, bmg 
full of cracks, and the air also being less elastic, it had ^mptetdy 
lost its resonance, and probably Ashes and muskrats could not then 

313 



Henry David Thoreau 
have been stonned by a blow oa it. The fishermen say that the 
“thundering of the pond” scares the fishes and prevents their biting. 
The pond does not thunder every evening, and I cannot tell surely 
when to expect its thundering; but though I may perceive no dif- 
ference in the weather, it does. Who would have suspected so 
large and cold and thick-skinned a thing to be so sensitive? Yet it 
has its law to which it thunders obedience when it should as surely 
as the buds expand in the spring. The eaitfa^is all alive and covered/ 
with papillae. The largest pond is as sensitive to atmospherid 
changes as the globule of mercury in its tube. ... \ 

When the ground was partially bare of snow and a few warm' 
days had dried its surface somewhat, it was pleasant to compare the 
first tender signs of the infant year just peeping forth with the stately 
beauty of the withered vegetation which had withstood the winter — 
life everlasting, goldenrods, pinweeds and graceful wild grasses, 
more obvious and interesting frequently than in summer even, as 
if their beauty was not ripe till then; even cotton grass, cattails, 
mulleins, johnswort, hardback, meadowsweet, and other strong- 
stemmed plants, those unexhausted granaries which entertain the 
earliest birds — decent weeds, at least, which widowed Nature wears. 
I am particularly attracted by the arching and sheaflike top of the 
wool grass; it brings back the summer to our winter memories, and 
is among the forms which art loves to copy and which, in the vege- 
table kingdom, have the same relation to types already in the mind 
of man that astronomy has. It is an antique style, older than Greek 
or Egyptian. Many of the phenomena of Winter are suggestive of an 
inexpressible tenderness and fra^e delicacy. We are accustomed to 
hear .this king described as a rude and boisterous tyrant; but with 
the gentleness of a lover he adorns the tresses of Summer. 

At the approach of spring the red squirrels got under my house, 
two at a time, directly under my feet as I sat reading or writing, 
and kept up the queerest chuckling and chirruping and vocal pir- 
ouetting and gurgling sounds that ever were 'heard; and when I 
stamped, they only chirruped the louder, as if past all fear and re- 
spect in their mad pranks, defying humanity to stop them. No, you 
don’t — chickaree— chickaree. They were wholly deaf to my' argu- 
ments or failed to perceive their force, and fell into a strain of in- 
vective that was irresisfible. 

The first sparrow of spring! The year be^nning with younger 
hope than ever! The f^t silvery warblings heard oyer the partially 

314 



Walden 

bare and moist fields from the bluebird, the song sparrow, and die 
redwing, as if the last fliakes of mnter tinkled as they fell! What at 
sudi a time are histories, chronologies, traditions and aU writtm rev- 
elations? The brooks ^g carols and g^ees to the spring. The mardi 
hawk, sailing low over the meadow, is already seeking the first slimy 
life that awakes. The sinking sound of: melting snow is heard in all 
dells, and the ice dissolves apace in die ponds. The grass flames up 
on the hillsides like a spring fire, a^ if the earth sent forth an in- 
ward heat to greet the returning sun; not yellow but green is the 
color of its flame — ^the symbol of perpetual youth, the grass blade, 
like a long green ribbon, streams from the sod into the summer, 
checked ind^ by the frost, but anon pushing on again, lifting its 
spear of last year’s hay with the fresh fife below. It grows as steadily 
as the rill oozes out of the ground. It is almost identical with dia^ 
for in the growing days of June, when the rills ate dry, the grass 
blades are their channels, and from year to yev the herds drink at 
this perennial green stream and the mower draws from it betimes 
his winter supply. So our human life but dies down to its root, and 
still puts forth its green blade to eternity. 

Walden is melting apace. There is a canal two rods wide along 
the northerly and westerly sides, and wider still at the east end. A 
great field of ice has cracked off from the main body. I hear a scmg 
sparrow singing from the bushes on the shore — oUt, oUt, olit—chip, 
chip, cfup, che char — che wiss, wiss, wiss. He too is helping to cradc 
it. How handsome the great sweeping curves in the edge of the ice, 
answering somewhat to those of the shore, but more regular! It is 
unusually hard, owing to the recent severe but transient cold and 
all watered or waved like a palace floor. But the wind slides east- 
ward over its opaque surface in vain, till it reaches the living sur- 
face beyond. It is glorious to beholdithis ribbon water sparkling 
in the sun, the bare face of the pond full of gjee and youth, as if it 
spoke the joy of the fishes within it, and of the sands on its diore 
—a silvery sheen as from the scales of a leudscus, as it were, all 
one active fish. Such is the contrast between winter and spring. Wal- 
den was dead is alive again. But this spring it broke up mme 
steacfily, as I have said. 

Tint ehnng a from storm and winter to serene and mild weathw, 
from dark and sluggish hours to bri^t and elastic ones, is a vaxxor 
oraWe crisis wbk* all things prodaim. It is seemingly instantaneous 
at last. Suddenly an influx of li^t filled my house, though the eve- 

3i5 



Henry David Thoreau 
niiig was at hand, and the clouds of winter still overhung it, and the 
eaves were dripping with sleety rain. I looked out the window and 
lot where yesterday was cold gray ice, there lay the transparent 
pond already calm and full of hope as in a summer evening, reflect- 
ing a summer-evening sky in its bosom, thou^ none was visible 
overhead, as if it had intelligence with some remote horizon. I 
heard a robin in the distance, Ae first I had heard for many a thou- 
sand years, I thought, whose note I shall not forget for many a thouj 
sand more — ^the same sweet and powerful song as of yore. O the 
evening robin, at the end of a New England summer day! If I coula 
ever find the twig he sits upon! I mean he; I mean the twig. This! 
at least is not the Turdus migratorius. The pitch pines and shrub 
oaks about my house, which had so long drooped, suddenly resumed 
their several characters, looked brighter, greener and more erect 
and alive, as if effectually cleansed and restored by the rain. I knew 
that it would not rain any more. You may tell by looking at any 
twig of the forest, aye, at your very wood pile, whether its winter 
is past or not. As it grew darker, I was staged by the honking of 
geese flying low over the woods, like weary travelers getting in late 
from Southern lakes and indulging at last in unrestrained complaint 
and mutual consolation. Standing at my door, I could hear the rush 
of their wings; when, driving toward my house, they suddenly spied 
my light and with hushed clamor wheeled and setfled in the pond. 
So I came in and shot the door and passed my first spring night 
in the woods. 

In the morning I watched the geese from the door through the 
mist, sailing in the middle of the pond, fifty rods off, so large and 
tumultuous that Walden appeared like an artificial pond for their 
amusement But when I stood on the shore they at once rose up 
with a great flapping of wings at the signal of their commander, and 
when they had got into rank circled about over my head, twenty- 
nine of ttem, and then steered straight to Canada, with a regular 
honk from the leader at intervals, trusting to bre^ their fast in mud- 
dier pools. A “plump” of ducks rose at the same time and took the 
route to the north in the wake of their noisier cousins. 

For a week 1 heard the circling, groping clangor of some solitary 
goose in the fo ggy moimngs, seeldiig its compaiuon and stffl 
peopling the woods with the sound of a larger life thtm they could 
sustain. In April the pigeons were seen again flying express in small 
flocks, and in due time I heard the martins twittering, over my dess- 

316 



Walden 

ing, though it had not seemed that the township conudned so many 
that it could afford me any, and I fancied that they were peculiarly 
of the ancient race that dwelt in hollow trees ere white men came. 
In almost all climes the tortoise and the &og are among the pre- 
cursors and heralds of this season, and birds fly with song and 
glancing plumage, and plants spring and bloom, and winds blow, 
to correct this slight oscillation of the poles and preserve the equi- 
librium of nature. . . . 

A single gontle rain makes the grass many shades greener. So our 
prospects brighten on the influx of better thoughts. We should be 
blessed if we lived in the present always, and took advantage of 
every accident that befell us, like the grass which confesses the in- 
fluence of the slightest dew that falls on it; and did not spend our* 
time in atoning for the neglect of past opportunities, which we call 
doing our duty. We loiter in winter while it is already spring. In a 
pleasant spring morning all men’s sins are forgiven. Such a day is 
a truce to vice. While such a sun holds out to bum, the vilest sin- 
ner may return. Through our own recovered innocence we discern 
the innocence of our neighbors. You may have known your neigh- 
bor yesterday for a thief, a drunkard, or a sensualist, and merely 
pitied or despised him, and despaired of the world; but the sun 
shines bright and warm this first spring morning, recreating the 
world, and you meet him at some serene work, and see how his 
exhausted and debauched veins expand mth stiU joy and bless the 
new day, feel the spring influence with the innocence of infancy, 
and all his faults are forgotten. There is not only an atmosphere of 
good will about him, but even a savor of holiness groping for ex- 
pression, blindly and ineffectually perhaps, like a newborn instinct, 
and for a short hour the south beside echoes to no vulgar jest. You 
see some iimocent fair shoots preparing to burst from his gnarled 
rind and try another year’s life, tender and fresh as the youngest 
plant. Even he has entered into the joy of his Lord. Why the jailer 
does not leave open his prison doors — why the judga does not dis- 
miss his case — ^why the preachn: does not dismiss congregation! 
It is because they do not obey the hint wMch God ^ves them, nor 
accept the pardon which He &eely offers to aU. . , . 

Early in May, the oaks, Wckories, maples and trther trees, just 
putting out amid the pine woods around the pond, imparted a 

317 



Henry David Thoreau 
biiglitiiess Uke sunshine to the landscape, espedally on doudy days, 
as if the sun were breaking througjh mists and sluning faintly on 
the hillsides here and diere. On the third or fourth of May I saw 
a loon in the pond, and during the first week of the month 1 heard 
the whippoorwill, the brown thrasher, the veery, the wood pewee, 
the chewink and other birds. I had heard the wood thrush long be- 
fore. Tbe phoebe had already come once more and looked in at my 
door and window, to see if my house was n'avemlike enou^ for 
her, sustaining herself on humming wings with clinched talons, as 
if she held by the air, while she surveyed the premises. The sulphur- 
like pollen of the pitch pine soon covered the pond and the stones 
and rotten wood along tte shore, so that you could have collected a 
barrelful. This is the “sulphur shower” we hear of. Even in Kalida- 
sa’s * drama of ShakunttUa, we read of “rills dyed yellow with the 
golden dust of the lotus.” And so the seasons went rolling on into 
summer, as one rambles into higher and higher grass. 

Thus was my first year’s life in the woods completed; and the sec- 
ond year was similar to it. I finally left Walden September 6th, 1847. 

Conclusion 

T o THE SICK THE DOCTORS wisely recommended a change of air and 
scenery. Thank Heaven, here is not all the world! The buckeye 
does not grow in New England, and the mockingbird is rarely heard 
here. The wild goose is more of a cosmopolite than we; he breaks his 
fast in Canada, takes a luncheon in the Ohio and plumes himself for 
the nigiht in a southern bayou. Even the bison, to some extent, keeps 
pace with the seasons, cropping the pastures of the Colorado only till 
a greener and sweeter grass awaits him the Yellowstone. Yet we 
think diat if rail fences are pulled down and stone walls piled up on 
our farms, bounds are hmiceforA set to our lives and our fates de- 
cided. If you are chosen town clerk, forsooth, you c^ot go to Tierra 
dd Fuego this summer; but you may go to Ae land of infernal fire 
neverUieless. Tbe imiverse is widw than our views of it. 

Yet we should oftmier look over the tafirail of our craft, like curi- 
ous passengers, and not make the voyage like stupid sailors jncking 
oakim. The other side the g^obe is but the home of our corre- 
sptmdmit. Our voyagbig is only great-circle sdling, and the docUvs 
prescr^ for diseases ^ the skin merefy. One hastens to southon 
* Gnat Indian poet and dramatiit 

318 



Walden 

Africa to chase the ^afife; but surdy that is not the game he would 
be aftOT. How long, pray, would a man hunt guraffes if he could? 
&iipes and woodcocks also may afford rare sport; but I trust it 
would be nobler game to shoot one’s self. 

Direct your eye right inward, md you’ll find 
A thousand reports in your mind 
Yet undiscovered. Travel them, and be 
Expert in home-cosrru>graphy. 

What does Africa — ^what does the West stand for? Is not our own in- 
terior white on the chart? black though it may prove, like the coast, 
when discovered. Is it the source of the Nile or the Niger or the Mi»> 
sissippi or a Northwest Passage around this continent that we would 
find? Are these the problems which most concern mankind? Is Frank- 
lin * the only man who is lost, that his wife should be so earnest to 
find him? Does Mr. Orinnell t know where he himsdf is? Be rather 
the Mungo Park,$ the Lewis and Clark and Frobisher of your own 
streams and oceans; explore your own higher latitudes — ^with ship- 
loads of preserved meats to support you if they be necessary; and 
pile the empty cans sky hig^ for a sign. Were preserved meats in- 
vented to preserve meat merely? Nay, be a Columbus to whole new 
continents and worlds within you, opening new channels, not of trade 
but of thought. Every man is the lord of a realm beside which the 
earthly empire of the Czar is but a petty state, a hummock left by 
the ice. Yet some can be patriotic who have no self-respect, and sac- 
rifice the greater to the less. They love the soil which makes their 
graves, but have no sympathy with the spirit which may still ani- 
mate their clay. Patriotism is a maggot in Aeir heads. What was the 
meaning of that South Sea Ex{doring Expedition, with all its parade 
and expense, but an indirect reception of the fact that there are 
continents and seas in the moral world to which ev^ man is an isth- 
mus or an inlet, yet unexplored by him, but that it is earier to sail 
many thousand miles through cold and storm and cannibals in a gov- 
ernment ship with five hundred men and boys to assist one, than it is 
to eiqjlore the private sea, the Atlantic and Pacific Ocean of one's 
being alone. 

“Eiret, et extremes alter scrutetur Iberos. 

Plus habet hie vitae, |dus hab^ file viae.” 

* John Franklin, Arctic explorer 

t Henry Orinnell financed a rescue etpeditioa to find Franklin, 
t Scotrah expknw of Africa 


319 



Henry David Thoreau 

Let them wander and scrutinize the outlandish Australians. 

/ have more of Cod, they more of the road. 

It is not worthwhile to go around the world to count the cats in Zan- 
zibar. Yet do this even till you can do better, and you may perhaps 
find some “Symmes’ Hole” by which to get at the inside at last. Eng- 
land and France, Spain and Portugal, Gold Coast and Slave Coast, 
all front on this private sea; but no bark &om them has ventured out 
of sight of land, thou^ it is without doubt the direct way to India. 
If you would learn to speak all tongues and conform to the customs 
of all nations, if you would travel farther than all travelers, be nat- 
uralized in all climes, and cause the Sphinx to dash her head against 
a stone, even obey the precept of the old philosopher, and “explore 
thyself.” Herein are demanded the eye and the nerve. Only the de- 
feated and deserters go to the wars, cowards that run away and en- 
list. Start now on that farthest western way, which does not pause at 
the Mississippi or the Pacific, nor conducts toward a worn-out China 
or Japan, but leads on direct, a tangent to this sphere, summer and 
winter, day and night, sun down, moon down and at last earth down 
too. 

It is said that Mirabeau * took to highway robbery “to ascertain 
what degree of resolution was necessary in order to place one’s self 
in formal opposition to the most sacred laws of society.” He declared 
that “a solder who fights in the ranks does not require half so much 
courage as a footpad”; “that honor and religion have never stood in 
the way of a well-considered and a firm resolve.” This was manly, 
as the world goes; and yet it was idle, if not desperate. A saner man 
would have found himself often enough “in formal opposition” to 
what are deemed “the most sacred laws of society,” through obedi- 
ence to yet more sacred laws, and so have tested Us resolution with- 
out going out of his way. It is not for a man to put himself in such an 
attitude to socie^, but to maintain himself in whatever attitude he 
find himself through obedience to the laws of Us being, wUch will 
never be one of opposition to a just government, if he should chance 
to meet with such. 

I left the woods for as good a reason as I went there. Perhaps it 
seemed to me that I had several more lives to live and could not 
spare any more time for that one. It is remarkable how easily and 
insensibly we fall into a particular route and make a beaten track 
for ourselves. I had not lived there a week before my feet wore a 
* Comte de Mirabeau, French revdutionist t 

320 



Walden 

path from my door to the pondside; and though it is five or ^ years 
since I trod it, it is still quite distinct. It is true, I fear, that others 
may have fallen into it and so helped to keep it open. The surface of 
the earth is soft and impressible by the feet of men; and so with the 
paths which the mind travels. How worn and dusty, then, must be 
the highways of the world, how deep the ruts of tradition and con- 
formity! I did not wish to take a cabin passage, but rather to go be- 
fore the mast and on the deck of the world, for there I could best see 
the moonlight amid the mountains. I do not wish to go below now. 

I learned this, at least, by my experiment: that if one advances 
confidently in the direction of his dreams and endeavors to live the 
life which he has imaged, he will meet with a success unexpected 
in common hours. He will put some things behind, will pass an in- 
visible boundary; new, universal and more liberal laws will begin to 
establish themselves around and within him; or the old laws be ex- 
panded and interpreted in his favor in a more liberal sense, and he 
will live with the license of a higher order of beings. In proportion as 
he simplifies his life, the laws of the universe will appear less com- 
plex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor 
weakness weakness. If you have built castles in the air, your work 
need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the founda- 
tions under them. 

It is a ridiculous demand which England and America make, Aat 
you shall speak so that they can understand you. Neither men nor 
toadstools grow so. As if Aat were important, and there were not 
enough to understand you without them. As if Nature could support 
but one order of understanding, could not sustain birds as weQ as 
quadrupeds, flying as well as creeping things, and hush and whoa, 
which Bri^t can understand, were the best English. As if there were 
safety in stupidity alone. I fear chiefly lest my expression may not be 
extra-vagant enough, may not wander far enough beyond the nar- 
row limit of my daily experience, so as to be adequate to the truth of 
which I have been convinced. Extra-vagance! it depends on how you 
are yarded. The migrating buffalo, whidi seeks new pastures in an- 
other latitude, is not extravagant like the cow udiich kicks over the 
pail, leaps the cowyard fence and runs after her calf in milking time. 
I desire to speak somewhere without bounds; like a man in a waking 
moment, to men in their waking moments; for I am convinced that I 
cannot exaggerate enou^ even to lay the foundation of a true ex- 
pression. Who that has heard a strain of music feared then lest he 

321 



Henry David Thoreau 
should speak cjctravagantly any more forever? In view of die future 
or posable, we should live quite laxly and undefined in front, our 
outlines dim and misty on that side; as our shadows reveal an insen- 
sible persjHration toward the sun. The volatile truth of our words 
should continually betray the inadequacy of the residual statement. 
Their truth is instantly translated; its Uteral monument alone re- 
mains. The words which express our faith and piety are not definite; 
yet they are significant and fragrant like ^qnkincense to superior 
natures. 

Why level downward to our dullest perception always and praise 
that as common sense? The commonest sense is die sense of men 
asleep, which they express by snoring. Sometimes we are inclined to 
class those who are once-and-a-half-witted with the half-witted, be- 
cause we appreciate only a third part of their wit. Some would find 
fault with Ae morning red, if they ever got up early enough. “They 
pretend,” as I hear, “that the verses of Kabir * have four different 
senses: illusion, spirit, intellect and the exoteric doctrine of the Ke- 
da^'; but in this part of the world it is considered a ground for com- 
plaint if a man’s writings admit of more than one interpretation. 
While Eni^and endeavors to cure the potato rot, will not any en- 
deavor to cure the brain rot, which prevails so much more widely 
and fatally? 

I do not suppose that I have attained to obscurity, but I should be 
proud if no more fatal fault were found with my pages on this score 
than was found with the Walden ice. Southern customers objected to 
its blue color, which is the evidence of its purity, as if it were muddy, 
and preferred the Cambridge ice, which is white, but tastes of weeds. 
The puri^ men love is like the mists which envelop the earth, and 
not like the azure ether beyond. 

Some ate dinning in our ears that we Americans, and modems 
generally, are intellectual dwarfs compared with the ancients or even 
the Elizabethan men. But what is that to the purpose? A living dog 
is better than a dead lion. Shall a man go and hang himself because 
he belongs to the race of pygmies, and not be the biggest pygmy that 
he can? Let everycme mind his own business, and endeavor to be 
udiat he was made. 

Why should we be in such desperate haste to succeed ai^ in such 
desperate entmprises? If a man does not keep pace with his com- 
fmnions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummmr. Let him 
* Hindu mystic and poet ^ 

322 



Walden 

9tep to the music which he hears, however measured or far away. It is 
not important that he should mature as soon as an apple tree or an 
oak. Shall he turn his spring into summer? If the conditk>n of things 
which we were made for is not yet, what were any reality which we 
can substitute? We will not be shipwrecked on a vain reality. Shgll we 
with pains erect a heaven of blue g^ass over ourselves, though when it 
is done we shall be sure to gaze still at the true ethereal heaven far 
above, as if the former were not? 

There was an artist in the city of Kouroo who was disposed to 
strive after perfection. One day it came into his mind to make a 
staff. Having considered that in an imperfect work time is an ingre- 
dient, but into a perfect work time does not enter, he said to himself, 
“It shall be perfect in all respects, though I should do nothing else 
in my life.” He proceeded instantly to the forest for wood, being re- 
solved that it should not be made of unsuitable material; and as he 
searched for and rejected stick after stick, his friends gradually de- 
serted him, for they grew old in their works and died, but he grew 
not older by a moment. His singleness of purpose and resolution and 
his elevated piety endowed him, without his knowledge, uith peren- 
nial youth. As he made no compromise with Time, Time kept out of 
his way, and only signed at a distance because he could not over- 
come him. Before he had found a stick in all respects suitable, the 
city of Kouroo was a hoary ruin, and he sat on one of its mounds to 
peel the stick. Before he had given it the proper shape, the dynasty 
of the Kandahars was at an end, and with the point of the stick he 
wrote the name of the last of that race in the sand, and then resumed 
his work. By the time he had smoothed and polished the staff, Kalpa 
was no longer the polestar; and ere he had put on the ferule and tile 
head adorned with precious stones, Brahma had awakened and 
slumbered many times. But why do I stay to mention these things? 
When the finishing stroke was put to his work,. it suddenly.expanded 
before the ^es of the astonished artist into foe fairest of all foe crea- 
tions dt Brahma. He had made a new system in making a staff, a 
world with full and fair proportions; in which, though foe old cities 
and <tynasties had passed away, fairer and more glorious ones had 
takmi their [daces. And now he saw by the heap of shaidngs still 
fresh at his feet that, for turn and his work, the former lapse of time 
had been an illudmi, and that no more time had elapsed than is re- 
quired for a sing^ sdntfilation from the brain of Brahma to fall on 
ai^ inflame ffm tinder of a mental brain. The material was pure, and 

323 



Henry David Thoreau 

his art was pure; how could the result be other than wonderful? 

No face which we can give to a matter will stead us so well at last 
as the trudi. This alone wears well. For the most part, we are not 
where we are, but in a false position. Through an infimity of our 
natures, we suppose a case and put ourselves into it, and hence are 
in two cases at the same time, and it is doubly difficult to ^t out. In 
sane moments we regard only the facts, the case that is. Say what 
you have to say, not what you ought. Any truth is better than make- j 
believe. Tom Hyde, the tinker, standing on the gallows, was asked 
if he had anything to say. “Tell the tailors,” said he, “to remember 
to make a knot in their thread before they take the first stitch.” His 
companion’s prayer is forgotten. 

However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and 
call it hard names. It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when 
you are richest. The faultfinder will find faults even in paradise. 
Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, 
thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poorhouse. The setting sun is re- 
flected from the windows of the almshouse as brightly as from the 
rich man’s abode; the snow melts before its door as early in the 
spring. I do not see but a quiet mind may live as contenteffiy there 
and have as dieering thoughts as in a palace. The town’s poor seem 
to me often to live the most independent lives of any. Maybe they 
are simply great enough to receive without misgiving. Most think 
that they are above being supported by the town; but it oftener hap- 
pens that they are not above supporting themselves by dishonest 
means, which should be more disreputable. Cultivate poverty like a 
garden herb, like sage. Do not trouble yourself much to get new 
things, wheffier clothes or friends. Turn the old; return to them. 
Things do not change; we change. Sell your clothes and keep your 
thougjhts. God mil see that you do not want society. If I were con- 
fined to a comer of a garret all my days, like a spider, the world 
would be just as large to me while I had my thoughts about me. The 
philosopher said: “From an army of three divisiras one can take 
away its g^eral and put it in disorder; from the man, the most ab- 
ject and vulgar, one cannot take away his thought.” Do not seek so 
anxiously to be developed, to subject yourself to many influences to 
be played on; it is all dissipation. Humility, like darkness, reveals the 
heavenly lights. The shadows of poverty and meanness gather around 
us, “and lo! creation widens to our '^ew.” We are often reminded 
that if there were bestowed on us the wealth of Croesus, our aims 

324 



Walden 

must stni be the same and our means essentiaUy the same. More- 
over, if you are restricted in your ran^ by poverty, if you cannot 
buy boo^ and newspapers, for instance, you are but confined to the 
most sig^cant and vital experiences; you are compelled to deal 
with the material which yields the most sugar and the most starch. It 
is life near the bone where it is sweetest. You are defended from be- 
ing a trifler. No man loses ever on a lower levd by magnanimi ty on a 
higher. Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only. Money is not 
required to buy one necessary of the soul. . . . 

There is an incessant influx of novelty into the world and yet we 
tolerate incredible dullness. I need only suggest what kind of sermmis 
are still listened to in the most enli^tened countries. There are such 
words as joy and sorrow, but they are only the burden of a psalm, 
simg with a nasal twang, while we believe in the ordinary and mean. 
We think that we can change our clothes only. It is said that the 
British Empire is very large and respectable, and that the United 
States are a first-rate power. We do not believe that a tide rises and 
falls behind every man which can float the British Empire like a 
chip, if he should ever harbor it in his mind. Who knows what sort of 
seventeen-year locust will next come out of the ground? The govern- 
ment of the world I live in was not framed, like that of Britain, in 
after-dirmer conversations over the wine. 

The life in us is like the water in the river. It may rise this year 
higher than man has ever known it and flood the parched uplands; 
even this may be the eventful year, which will drown out all our 
muskrats. It was not always dry land where we dwell. I see far in- 
land the banks which the stream anciently washed, before science 
began to record its freshets. Everyone has heard the story which 
has gone the rounds of New England, of a strong and beautiful bug 
which came out of the dry leaf of an old table of apple-tree wood, 
which had stood in a farmer’s kitchen for sixty years, first in Con- 
necticut and afterward in Massachusetts — ^from an egg deposited in 
the living tree many years earlier still, as appeared by counting the 
annual layers beyond it; which was heard jawing out for several 
weeks, hatched pmrchance by the heat of an um. Who does not feel 
his faith in a resurrection and immortality strengthened by hearing 
tins? Who knows what beautiful and winged life, whose egg has 
been buried for ages under many concentric layers of woodenness in 
the dead dry life of society, deposited at first in the alburnum of the 
green and living tree, which has been gradually converted into the 



Henry David Thoreau 
BonUance of its wdl-seasoned tomb — ^heard perchance, gnawing out 
now fas years, by the astonished family of man, as they sat around 
the festive board — ^may unexpectedly come forth from amid society’s 
most tritdal and handseled furniture to enjoy its poiect summer life 
atlastl 

I do not say that John or Jonathan '* will realize all this; but such 
is die diaracter of that morrow which mere lapse of time can never 
maVft dawn. The lig|ht which puts out our eyes is darkness to us. Only 
that day dawns to which we are awake. There is more day to dawn. 
Hie sun is but a morning star. 

* John Bull or Brother Jonathan — ^England and America 


326 



“J’ACCUSE” 

by 

Emile Zola 


January 13, 18^8 





HOME COURSE APPRECIATION 


[ 


I N 1894 CAPTAIN ALFRED DREYFUS of the French Army was 
accused of selling military secrets to a foreign government, 
dismissed in dishonor from the service and sentenced to depor- 
tation for life to a fortified place. It was the heaviest sentence that 
could be ^ven and a calamitous finish to what had been a promis- 
ing military career. 

Throughout his trial Captain Dreyfus never ceased to protest 
his innocence and to hope that a new trial would some day vindi- 
cate him. Dreyfus believed his judges were honorable men who had 
made a mistake. Some were, but others, we know now, were both 
weak and blind. Dreyfus himself believed so implicitly in the recti- 
tude of his fellow officers and in the organization of the Army that, 
even in the darkest period of his nightmarish experience, he never 
became embittered. To win an honest hearing for Dreyfus and for 
justice, the publicity that could be gained by the pen and rhetoric 
of Emile Zola were required. 

Zola was already an established novelist when the Dreyfus case 
became a scandal. He was known everywhere for the vigor and 
sincerity of his novels in which he sought to represent the life of 
the industrial poor. Bitter, realistic, yet deeply humanitarian, they 
were the work of a generous and honorable spirit. When one of 
Dreyfus’ accusers. Major Esterha^gr, was perfunctorily exoittrated 
by a court-mardal which was pretending to investigate the truth of 
the Dreyfus matter, Zola sprang to the attack. He knew neither 
Major Esterhazy nor Captain Dreyfus, and he had no axes, either 
political or religjous, to grind. His interest was that of a crusader for 
the right, and he drove toward his goal with the energy of a man 
whose deepest moral instincts have bemi outraged. 

The object of Zola’s letter to Fflix Faure was simple. He vmted 
to force a lawsuit by uttering a deliberate libel. His object did 
free Zda from tte need to stq)ply proof of what he daimed; it did, 

329 




Emile Zola and Alfred Dreyfus. 


however, pomit him a greater liberty in composition than a lawyer 
would have had in preparing a brief. Zola’s letter, stem and sweep- 
ing, does not niggle over petty details or mince technical terms or 
shrink from naming names. Instead, it speaks directly to the con- 
science of the human race. 

Published on January 13, 1898, in an obscure liberal journal, 
L’Aurme {The Dawn), Zola’s letter bad a smashing effect on public 
opinion in France. It provcdced a lawsuit, as it had been designed 
to do, and, though Zola fought the case fiercely, he was convicted 
d crimmal libel, sentenced to a year’s imprisonment and fined. 
He {Homptly fled to England and prepared to continue the battle 
from that stronghold of free speech. 

But ^riiile he was in exile, the chief accusers oi. Dreyfus confessed, 
undo: pressure of public opinion, that diey had forged the docu- 
ments which had clinched the case against him. Dreyfus himsdf re- 

330 




turned from Devil’s Island and was pardoned, provisionally in 1899, 
fully in 1906. He resumed his career in the French Army, re- 
ceived the decoration of the Legion of Honor and served wtdi dis- 
tinctimi in World War I. He died in 1935. 

Zola, too, returned from En^and to a hero’s welcome. But he 
did not long survive to enjoy it. He died in 1902, leaving behind 
him a reputation as a heroic figure who dared to risk everything 
for the cause of justice. 


331 






To M. FELIX FAURE, President of the Republic 


Mr. President, 

Permit me, in return for the graciousness you once accorded me, 
to be concerned for your just glory and to teU you that your star, so 
brilliant until now, is threatened with the most shameful, the most 
indelible stain. 

You have emerged safe and sound from base calumnies, you haw 
conquered hearts. You appear radiant in the ^ory of this patriotic 
celebration that the Russian alliance has been for France, and you 
are preparing to preside over the solemn triumph of our Universal 
Exposition which is to crown our great century of work, truth and 
liberty. But what a blot of mud is cast upon your name — almost 
said your reign— by this abominable Dreyfus affair! A court-martial 
has just dared, on order, to acquit one Esterhazy — a supreme out- 
rage against all truth, all justice. And it is done; France bears this 
brand upon her face; history wUl record that it was under your presi- 
dency that such a social crime could be committed. 

Since they have dared, I too shall dare. I shall speak the truth be- 
cause I have promised to speak it if justice, regularly empowered, 
did not do so fully and completely. It is my duty to speak; I do not 
wish to be an accomplice. My ni^ts would be haunted by the spec- 
ter of the innocent man expiating out there, under the most fri^tful 
torture, a crime he has not committed. 

And it is to you, Mr. President, that I shall shout this truth, with 
aU tiie force <rf my revolt as an honest man. To your honor, I am 
convinced ffiat you are ignorant of the crime. And to whom, then, 
shall I denounce the malevolent mob of true culprits, if not to you, 
the highest ma^strate in the Imid? . . . 

333 


Emile Zola 

I suspect that you have no power in this affair, that you are the 
prisoi^ of the Constitution and of your circumstance. None the less, 
you have your duty as a nian, which you will consider and whidh 
you will fulfill. I do not despair in the least of ultimate triumph. I 
repeat even greater conviction: truth is on the march and noth- 
ing will stop it. It is only today that the affair is begmning, for it is 
only today that the positions are clear: on the one hand, the guilty 
ones who do not want the lig^t to emerge; on^e other, the lovers of 
justice who will give their lives to see that it does. I have said else- 
where, and I repeat it here, when the truth is buried underground, it 
grows, it accumulates such an explosive force that on the day it 
bursts, it blows up everything with it. We shall soon see whether we 
have not prepared the ground for the most resounding of disasters. 

But . . . Mr. President, it is time to conclude. 

I accuse Lieutenant Colonel du Paty de dam of having been the 
diabolical agent of the judicial error, unconsciously, I had rather be- 
lieve, and of having then defended his evil work for three years by 
the most absurd and most reprehensible machinations. 

I accuse General Mercier of having made himself an accomplice 
to one of the greatest iniquities of Ae century, at the very least, 
through weak-mindedness. 

I accuse General Billot of having had in his hands the definite 
proofs of the innocence of Dreyfus and of having suppressed them, 
and of ha^dng rendered himself guflty of the crime of treason to hu- 
mani^ and treason to justice for political motives and to protect the 
compromised General Staff. 

I accuse General de Boisdeffre and General Gonse of having made 
diemselves accomplices to the same crime, the former no doubt 
ffiroug^ religious passion, the latter perhaps from that esprit de corps 
that makes the War OfiGice the sacred and unassailable ark. 

1 accuse General de Pellieux and Major Ravary of having made 
a vilUunous inquest, I mean by that, an inquest of the most mon- 
strous partiali^, the report of which exhibits an imperishable monu- 
ment dt naive audacity. 

1 accuse the three handwriting exports, the Misters Bdhomim, 
Vaiinard, and Couard of having made lying and fraudulent reports, 
unless a medical examination should certify that they suffer from 
inquiited si^ and judgment 

I accuse tiie War Office of ha^ng conducted an abominable cam- 

334 



“J’Acjcuse” 

paign in the press, particularly in UEclair and UEcho de Paris, to 
mislead public opinion and to hide ihdr sin. 

I accuse, lastly, the first court-martial of having violated the law 
in condemning an accused person on evidence kept secret from him, 
and I accuse the second court-martial of having covered up this ille- 
gality, under orders, by committing in its turn the judidal crime of 
knowingly acquitting a guil^ person. 

In maldng these accusations, I do not ignore the fact that I am 
making myself liable to articles 30 and 31 of the Law of the Press of 
July 29, 1881, which punishes acts of defamaticm. I expose myself 
voluntarily. 

As to the men I accuse, I do not know them; I have never seen 
them; I bear neither resentment nor hatred against them. They are 
merely entities for me, symbols of sodal malevolence. My present 
action is only a revolutionary means of hastening the explosion of 
truth and justice. 

I have only one passion — light, in the name of humani^ wMdi 
has suffered so much and which has a ri^t to happiness. My pas- 
sionate protest is but the cry of my soul. Let them dare, then, to ar- 
raign me before the Assize Court, and let us have the inquest take 
place in the full light of day. 

I am waiting. 

I beg you, Mr. President, to accept the assurance of my deepest 
respect 

Emile Zola. 


335 




MEDITATIONS 

OF 

MARCUS 

AURELIUS 


TRANSLATED BY 

George Long 


A CONDENSATION 



Noto: The translator's notes appear 
in brackets throughout the text. 





F rom socrates, careless of money, through Spinoza, the lens 
grinder, down to the present generation of philosophical gar- 
deners like Wittgenstein or longshoremen like Hofer, lovers of 
wisdom have generally despised material goods. Generally, too, they 
have had little of them. Although it may seem easy for a man who 
never had riches to despise them, it is diverting to discover a man 
who shared this disdain, even though he had more wealth than any- 
one else of his day. Such a man was Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, 
the Roman emperor who transcended his temporal power through 
his wisdom and good works. In his Meditations we may still find, 
perfectly represented, the humane teachings of one of the wisest 
philosophic^ schools that the ancient world produced. There have 
certainly been more profound and ori^al thinkers than Marcus 
Aurelius, but of a common sense viewpoint uncluttered by visions, 
revelations or mysteries, the great Roman emperor is still one of the 
most reliable spokesmen. 

THE CAESARS AND DISASTER 

The Roman Republic was destroyed by the genius of Julius Cae- 
sar (100-44 B.C.), the brilliant and ambitious conqueror of (Jaul. 
The Roman Empire, which followed it, was firmly established by 
the shrewdness and vigor of Augustus Caesar, who ruled from 27 
B.C. to 14 A.D. but an empire, however solidly established, depends 
on the accidents of succession. Hie noblest and most virtuous em- 
pM'or has no real guarantee that he will not be followed by and his 
good works undone by some callow youngster, some ambhious up- 
stmt or sonm lavdess monster. The heirs of Augustus seemed almost 
Aftitignftd to illustrate the point. Hbeiius was a senile monster, Ca^ 
ligula a youthful one, Qandius a weakling, and Nero a combin^on 
of an the more extravagant forms of foUy, weakness and vice. Nero 
finaUy brouglit Augustus’ empire to disaster. When he was assas^ 

339 





Hated in 68 a.d., the line of Caesars became extinct and, in the year 
69, three men ruled as “kings for a day,” with all three dying vio- 
lently. Finally the Roman Army called the able general Vespasian 
to the command and thereby established the Flavian dynasty of 
honest, hardworking emperors. 

THE FLAVIANS AND PEACE 

•WESPASUN, Titus, Domitian and Nerva, whq between them reigned 
’ only twenty-ei^t years (70-98 a.d.), were all selected by the 
Army. None of them was a man of genius, yet each was a capable 
administrator. Titus and Nerva, each reigning only two years, had 
little opportunity to display their talents. But none of those emper- 
ors was a mere figurehead; they did not compromise the dignity of 
their office or weaken the powers of the empire. Even though Domi- 
tian was assassinated, nothing resembling civil war disturbed the 
empire at his death. And when the gentle, elderly Nerva died, there 
followed four distinguished emperors, each of whom selected and 
adopted his successor. These emperors brought to the civilized world 
one of the longest periods of prosperity that it had ever known. 

Trajan, Hadrian, Antoninus Pius and Marcus Aurelius inherited 
in turn a vast empire which stretched from the Atlantic Ocean to 
the Euphrates River, and a culture which had developed steadily 
over a thousand years. They did not initiate brilliant reforms, nor 
did they patronize great artistic movements, yet they ruled energet- 
ically and wisely. In them, the old Roman concept of civic virtue 
seemed reanimated. Trajan, a soldier of Spanish origin, extended 
the boundaries of the empire by a series of ceaseless border actions 
and advantageous treaties, untfi they reached the greatest scope in 
Roman history. He patched and repaired the fabric of his empire, 
built roads, revamped tax structures, and scurried up and down the 
length and breadth of the known world as if he were the devoted 
servant (rf the people instead of their master. 

Hadrian was intellectually a more interesting man than Trajan. 
He conquered no more territory, and indeed, he retracted the 
boundaries of the empire and concentrated on defensive positions. 
Hadrian’s Wall, in northern Eng|land, marked the limit beyond which 
it was thought unwise to pursue the blue-painted tribes of Scots and 
Piets. But at the same time that he maintained the empire with re- 
markable firmness, energy and foresight, Hadrian’s private studies 
were fan-reaching. He read deeply in the arts and scie^s, in liter- 

340 



ature and astronomy, in sculpture, music and philosophy. Althou^ 
he encouraged widespread building, his wmks, such as his tomb in 
Rome (now called Castle Saint Angelo), are more remarkable for 
their durability than for their beauty, 

DESTINED TO RULE 

■j^ ARCUS AxmELius was bom early in the reign of Hadrian, in the 
year 121 a.d. His father, who was of a distinguished patrician 
family, died when Marcus was an infant, and Marcus was adopted 
by his grandfather, Lucius Verus. When Veras died, the emperor 
adopted the unde of Marcus Aurelius, Titus Aurelius Antoninus, 
and made an explicit provision that Antoninus should adopt both 
Marcus and Lucius Veras the Younger as his first and second sons. 
The firmness with which these later emperors surrendered the idea 
of founding a personal dynasty, settling the succession on adopted 
children, seems remarkable. In 138 A.D., Emperor Hadrian ^ed, 
and Marcus’ uncle succeeded to the throne. He is known to history 
as Antoninus Pius or Antoninus the Good. 

The character of Antoninus Pius has nowhere been better sketched 
than by Marcus Aurelius in the first book of the Meditations; and 
the uitiversal testimony of antiquity supports the fond tribute of his 
adopted son that Antoninus was a ruler without a flaw. Truly, in 
the days of the Antonines, a prophecy of Plato was fulfilled: that 
things would go well only when kings were philosophers and philos- 
ophers kings. 

Marcus Aurelius was brought up to rule. From the first, his days 
were filled with official duties, administrative journeys and social ob- 
ligations. His friends were not the casual contemporaries of schools 
and universities, but serious-minded tutors and guardians. At first 
Marcus was taught literature by Pronto, but he soon became at- 
tracted to the Stoic teachings of Rusticus. Some of his youthful letters 
to and from these tutors survive; they show him as a friendly, play- 
ful young man already touched with gravity, but warm of heart and 
frank. If the Meditations sometimes sound austere, one reason may 
be that they are the work of an older and wearier man than the 
letters represent 

About the year 145 a.d. Marcus married his cousin Faustina, 
daug)itm: of Antoninus Pius. The marriage was a happy one. She 
bore him thirteen children, <rf whom, however, only five survived. 
One oi these was Cmnmodus, who was destined, unfortunatdiyi to 

341 



succeed Marcus Aurelius and to squan<ter his whole inheritance in 
one wild burst of half'insane extravagance. But all this lay in the 
future. For the moment, young Marcus lived the life of a prince and 
nobleman; as part of his education he held many subor(hnate offices 
in the government. Tben, in 161, at the age of seventy-four, Anto- 
ninus Pius died, and Marcus became Emperor of Rome. He was 
forty years old. 

THE TROUBLED SEAT OF GREATNESS 

■^HE FIRST OFFICIAL ACT of Marcus Aurelius was to allow bis adop- 
^ dve brother Lucius Verus to share the rule of the empire; and for 
the first five years of their joint reign, they managed affairs bril- 
liantly. The army of Verus won an important victory against the 
Parthians in the Near East; but even as the traditional Roman cere- 
mony of triumph was being celebrated, disaster fell. For on their re- 
turn from Syria, the army of Verus had contracted an Oriental dis- 
ease akin to typhus or cholera, against which the Roman civiliza- 
tion with its primitive knowledge of medicine was utterly helpless. 
Soldiers of the victorious army suffered worst from the plague, but 
thousands upon thousands of civilians died suddenly and horribly of 
the disease. In many areas half the population was wiped out in a 
matter of weeks, and whole villages were depopulated. Finally, 
when Rome had been brought low by the plague, when Verus him- 
self lay close to death, the barbarians of the Rhine and Danube 
valleys chose to wage war. They overran Gaul, pressed across the 
Alps and began to threaten Rome itself. 

bi this crisis Marcos Aurelius showed his true mettle. To raise 
money for the defense of the capital, he held a public auction at 
which the treasures of his own household, accumulated by Trajan, 
Hadrian and his father, were sold to the highest bidders. He re- 
cruited new armies by every means possible, hiring border tribes- 
men, freeing slaves and drafting even gladiators to defend the em- 
jkc. Then, heedless of his own ill health, his philosophical interests 
and his deep antipathy toward any violence, he set off at the head 
his new armies. For ten years he plunged himself into border war- 
bite under the cold fog ailtd snowy skies of norffiem Europe. 

Occasionally a reb^ous outbreak at home brought him hurrying 
back to the warm Mediterranean world, and on sudi occasions he 
bdhawed ndth a forbearance and tolerance sudi as the ancient world 
had rarely obs^ved in a king. Hrm and just in his mainteiUBice 

342 




Marcus Aurelius among his people, utter a r eli ef 
^ Arch of Marcus Aurelius, Rome. 


public order, he scorned vindictiveness even toward the worst male- 
factors. He persecuted Christians (or, at least, Christians suffered 
persecution during his reign) but more for being a source of political 
division than for professing a creed contrary to the state religion. 
Bloodshed was deeply abhorrent to him, yet it was his fate to be in- 
volved almost constantly in the most savago and relentless bloodlet- 
ting which the civilized world has ever known. Marcus Aurelius died 
in the year 180 a.d., of illness and exhaustibn. Although his days! 
were filled with coimtiess tasks, he seized a few spare moments here^ 
and there to jot down some thoughts on the basic principles of life. 
Transcribed from his imperial notebooks, these observations are 
known today as the Meditations of Marcus Aurelius. 

THE “meditations” AND STOIC PHILOSOPHY 

The Meditations of Marcus Aurelius have no real lo^cal develop- 
ment or structure. Books I and 11 are dated from different military 
camps along the Danube frontier; the other books are not dated at 
all. The Meditations were written ori^ally in Greek, a tongue in 
which Marcus Aurelius was fluent but not flawless. They survived 
into modem times in a single manuscript which disappeared almost 
at once after it had been published in 1550. But there is no doubt 
of the authenticity of the text, or of its authorship. Nor is there any 
doubt of the nature of the author’s thought. Though he draws freely 
from the whole range of ancient literature, Marcus Aurelius is one 
of the most profound of Roman Stoics. 

The Stoic school of philosophy was founded in Athens about the 
year 290 B.c. by a philosopher named Zeno, who was probably a 
Phoenician by origin. The name “Stoic” derives from the Stoa, or 
Painted Porch, the building in Athens where Zeno lectured and gave 
instruction. The Stoics were, in many ways, the most puritanical of 
the Greek philosophers. The core of Zeno’s teaching was that men 
must try to live according to nature. The essence of nature he found 
to reside in a universal quality of reason and the reasonable. Man 
behaves virtuously, Zeno taugjit, so far as he behaves reasonably; he 
is foolish so far as he expects more from nature than nature or the 
supreme reason has seen fit to provide. Since life inevitably conUuns 
a great many accidental calamities over whidi men have no con- 
tid, tile wise and virtuous man fixes his affections on only those 
things over whidi he does have contrd, the (fispositions of his own 
sooL « 


344 



It was indeed an austere life that the Stoics aspired to, a 
dispassionate existence raised by contemplation Hi^ above the 
chance govemings of passion and selfish interest. Within every man, 
the Stoics thought, is an image of his personal self which, universal 
reason teaches him to know, is himself. This inner self is the ulti- 
mate source of any man’s moral authority. It decides what desires 
and inclinations orig^ate in his animal nature and what in his in- 
tellectual nature. It leads him toward the cardinal virtues of pru- 
dence, temperance, justice and fortitude. The typical response of the 
Stoic to any misfortune is to accept it as part of the nature of thin g s ^ 
as a test for virtue. What else, the Stoic asks, is to be expected of 
this world? Universal reason cannot conceivably arrange the cosmos 
so that every particular individual in it is satisfied: grief, folly and 
misery are therefore inevitable. But if life should become unbear- 
able, the Stoic endorses the practice of suicide as the soul’s last de- 
fense against the world. “You may give life the slip,” says Marcus 
Aurelius (Book X), “but do this without anger. Walk simply, gravely 
and freely into the other world, and thus the last action of your life 
will be the only one worth the owning.” 

THE FAITH OF MARCUS AURELIUS 

1^ ARCUS AXJRELius inherited most of his ideas more directly from 
Zeno’s followers rather than from Zeno himself. In the 4S0 
years after the founding of the sect, these followers had time to work 
out the practical applications for the system which, in Zeno’s day, 
had been essentially religious and abstract. The lame Greek slave 
Epictetus, thou^ most of his work has not survived, dearly influ- 
enced Marcus in many respects. Qeantbes and Chrysippus, two other 
Greek philosophers, were also influential in forming his thought. The 
great Roman Stoic of Nero’s day, Seneca, is not mentioned by Mar- 
cus but certainly helped to shape his thinking; Seneca is ignored per- 
haps because he tutored a tyrant, pahaps because he used Stoidsm 
more as a theme for declamation than as a practical standard for 
living. 

In any event, when the Emperor sat down to write his Menta- 
tions, he was not concerned about writing with originality. The broad 
outlines of the Stoic position had been established centuries before; 
Aurelius was merely expressing, for bis own use, what was commonly 
understood. No doubt his character led him to a greater emphasis 
on the practical problems of a good life than had the best-known of 

34S 



previous Stoic philosophers. Zeno resemldes an Old Testament 
inrophet in his overwhelming concern with the relation between God 
and man. But Marcus is essentially a man of affairs who wants to 
get throu|^ life efficiently, sensibly and with self-respect. There is 
very Utde of the hero in his composition, nothing at all of the cosnuc 
questioner or the metaphysical poet. What makes the Meditations 
meaningful is not their intellectual force, but the profound integri^ 
with which they were written and by whicluthey were lived. 

TWO TESTS OF A STOIC CREED 

The code of Marcus Aurelius does not directly offer life after ^ 
death, nor reward and punishment. Though there is hope for the 
soul’s recognition in another sphere, Marcus is willing to leave the 
matter undetermined. What the Meditations seek is a dedication to 
those things, and only those things, which are within the soul’s actual 
power. In Book IX the distinction is made clear: 

Who told you that the gods do not assist us in things which we 
might possibly compass by ourselves? Begin, then, to pray for such 
things, and you will see. For instance, this man prays that he may 
gain such a woman, but do you rather pray that you may have no 
such inclination. Another invokes the gods to set him free from 
some trouble; but let it be your petition that your mind may never 
put you upon such a wish. A third is very devout to prevent loss of 
his son; but I would have you pray rather against the fear of losing 
him. . . . 

One of the most severe tests of any philosophy is its treatment of 
misfortune and the inevitable fact of death. This test the Stoic creed 
can easily pass. Stoicism does not console or comfort as a super- 
natund religion does; but it sees death as a reasonable and desirable 
Old of life, in full coifformi^ to nature. _ 

Another stringent test for a system of thought is its applicability 
to political and social life. Although it has frequently been said that 
Stoicism urgod its followers to shirk duty, it did precisely the oppo- 
idte; k urged them to recognize reason and to do everything possible 
to effect a reasonaMe course of events. We need only think of such 
figures as the Antoniae Emperors and Seneca to be reminded of 
the active part that the Stoic philosophers took in politicid affairs. 
True, wlMm all hope was gcme, the systmn advocated wiffidrawid; 

346 



so, when Nero went completely insane and ordered Seneca’s death, 
it was com{detely in keeping with the Stoic system that Seneca should 
take his own life. 

AN EVALUATION OF STOICISM 

pERHAPS THE MOST VALID OBJECTION tO StOicism is itS tOO COm- 
^ plete reliance on nature as a source of moral comprehension. 
Providence, as the Stoics used it (sometimes equated with the Chris- 
tian God), does exist, but is neither symbolued in a rdigious way 
nor comprehended as an ultimate, ruling source of order. In other 
words, by seeing human life in terms of natural or physical life. 
Stoicism never evolved a workable metaphysical system, as did neo- 
platonism. Hence it was eventually supplanted by more symbolic 
philosophies and by Christianity. The Quistians, however, later put 
many of the moral teachings expressed by the Stoics to good use. 

Stoicism also lacked a certain warmth and humor in its moral 
concepts. Often the Stoic strikes us as a basically selfish man, at 
times too indifiEerent and at times too calculating. The Meditations 
of Marcus Aurelius suffer in some measure from these failings and, 
as artistic utterances, from a basically unpoetk style. 

If the work seems at times tinged with despair, it might be well 
to remember that it was conceived by an incredibly overworked man 
who was not concerned about its publication. Yet the mellow spirit 
of an enlightened humanism does breathe through many pages, 
thus forming one of the most cirilized books ever written. In Ae re- 
flections a brave and sensitive sold confronts the universe and stands 
resolute before the suffering which it sees there. Of that acute moral 
consciousness which constantly strives for the good, there is no better 
teacher than Marcus Aurelius. He was Emperor of the Western 
world, yet his first concern was the governing of his soul. 


347 




I 

F rom my grandfather Verus I learned good morals and the 
government of my temper. 

From the reputation and remembrance of my father,* modesty 
and a manly character. 

From my mother, piety and beneficence, and abstinence, not 
only from evil deeds, but even from evil thoughts; and further sim- 
plicity in my way of living, far removed from the habits of the rich. 

From my great-grandfather, not to have frequented public 
schools, and to have had good teachers at home, and to know that on 
such things a man should spend liberally. 

From my governor, to be neither of the green nor of the blue 
party at the games in the Circus, nor a partisan either of the Parmu- 
larius or the Scutarius teams at the gladiators’ fights; from him too I 
learned endurance of labor, and to want little, and to work with my 
own hands, and not to meddle with other people’s affairs, anil not to 
be ready to listen to slander. 

From Dio^etus, not to busy myself about trifling things, and 
not to give credit to what was said by miracle-workers and jugglers 
about incantations and the driving away of demons and such things; 
and not to breed quails for fighting, nor to gjve myself up passionate^ 
U> such things; and to endure freedom of speech; and to have be- 
come intimate with philosophy; and to have been a hearer, first of 
Bacdiius, then of Tandasis and Matdanus; and to have written dia- 
* Annius Verus, who died when Aurelius was three nuHitht old 

349 


Marcus Aurelius 

logues in my youth; and to have desired a plank bed and skin, and 
whatever else of the kind belongs to the Grecian discipline. 

From Rusticus * I received the impression that my character 
required improvement and discipline; and from him I learned not to 
be led astray to sophisdc emulation, nor to writing on speculative mat- 
ters, nor to delivering little hortatory orations, nor to showing myself 
off as a man who practices much (tiscijdine, or does benevolent acts 
in order to make a display; and to abstain ‘ffom rhetoric and poetryi 
and fine writing; and not to walk about in the house in my outdoorl 
dress, nor to do other things of the kind; and to write my letters with! 
simplicity, like the letter which Rusticus wrote from Sinuessa to my 
moAer; and with respect to those who have offended me by words, 
or done me wrong, to be easily disposed to be pacified and recon- 
ciled, as soon as they have shown a readiness to be reconciled; and to 
read carefuUy, and not to be satisfied with a superficial understanding 
of a book; nor hastily to give my assent to those who talk overmuch; 
and I am indebted to him for being acquainted with the discourses of 
Epictetus, which he communicated to me out of his own collection. 

<«^From Apollonius I learned freedom of will and undeviating 
steadiness of purpose; and to look to nothing else, not even for a 
moment, exce]^ to reason; and to be always the same, in sharp pains, 
on the occasion of the loss of a child, and in long illness; and to see 
clearly in a living example tiiat the same man can be both most reso- 
lute and yielding, and not peevish in giving his Instruction; and to 
have had before my eyes a man who clearly considered his experi- 
ence and his skill in expounding philosophical principles as the small- 
est of his merits; and from him I learned how to receive from friends 
what are esteemed favors, without being eith^ bumbled by them or 
letting them pass unnoticed. 

<«§ From Sextus, a benevolent disposition, and the example of a 
family governed in a fatherly manner, and the idea of living con- 
fonnably to nature; and gravity without affectationrand to look care- 
fully aftn the intm«sts of friends, and to tolerate ignorant persons, 
and those who form opinions without ccmsideration. He had the 
power of readily accommodating himsdf to all, so that intercourse 
witir him was more agreeable than a^ flattery; and at the same time 
he was most hig^y venerated by those who associated with him; and 
he had the f acnl^ both <A discovering and ordering, in an inMligent 
nod UM^otflcal way, the principles necessary fen 1&; and he never 
* His great Stole tutor " 

. 350 



Meditations 

showed anger or any other passion, but was entirdy free from pas- 
don, and also most affectionate; and he could express approbation 
without noisy display, and he possessed much knowledge without os- 
tentation. 

From Alexander, the grammarian, to refrain from fault-finding, 
and not in a reproadiful way to chide those who uttered any bar- 
barous or solecisdc or strange-sounding expression; but dexterously 
to introduce the very expression which ought to have been used, and 
in the way of answer or ^ving conformation, or joining in an inquiry 
about the thing itself, not about the word, or by some other fit sug- 
gestion. 

From Fronto * I learned to observe what envy and duplicity 
and hypocrisy are in a tyrant, and that generally those among us who 
are c^ed patricians are rather defident in paternal affection. 

From Alexander the Platonic, not frequently nor without neces- 
sity to say to anyone, or to write in a letter, that I have no leisure; 
nor continually to excuse the neglect of duties required by our rela- 
tion to those with whom we live, by alleging urgent occupations. 

From Catullus, the poet, not to be indifferent when a friend 
finds fault, even if he should find fault without reason, but to try to 
restore him to his usual disposition; and to be ready to speak well of 
teachers; and to love my children truly. 

From my brother, Severus, to love my kin, and to love truth, 
and to love justice; and through him I learned to know Thrasea, 
Helvidius, Cato, Dion, Brutus;t and from him I received the idea of 
a polity in which there is the same law for all, a polity administered 
with regard to equal rights and equal freedom of speech, and the idea 
of a kin^y government which respects most of all the freedom of the 
goverited; I learned from him also consistency and undeviating 
steadiness in my regard for philosophy, and a disposition to do good, 
and to give to others readily, and to cherish good hopes, and to be- 
lieve that 1 am loved by my friends; and in him I observed no con- 
cealment of his opinions with respect to those whom he condemned, 
and that his friends had no need to conjecture what he wished or did 
not wish, but it was quite plain. 

Ftmn Maximus I learned self-government, and not to be led 
aside by anything; an<l cheerfulness in all circumstances, as well as 
in illness; and a just admixture in tiie moral draracter of sweetness 

* Early tutor, «4iom he abandoned 
t Patriots 


351 



Marcus Aurelius 

and dignity, and to do what was set before me without com plaining, 
I observed that everybody believed that he thought as he spoke, and 
that, in all that he did, he never had any bad intention; and he never 
showed amazement and surprise, and was never in a hurry, and 
never put off doing a thing, nor was perplexed nor dejected,, nor 
did he ever laugh to disguise his vexation, nor, on the other hand, was 
he ever passionate or suspicious. He was accustomed to do acts of 
beneficence, and was ready to forgive, and. was free from all false- 
hood; and he presented the appearance of a man who could not be 
diverted from right rather than of a man who had been improved. I 
observed, too, that no man could ever thi n k that he was despised by 
Maximus, or ever venture to think himself a better man. He had also 
the art of being humorous in an agreeable way. 

In my father * I observed mildness of temper, and unchange- 
able resolution in the things which he had determined after due de- 
liberation; and no vainglory in those things which men call honors; 
and a love of labor and perseverance; and a readiness to listen to 
those who had anything to propose for the commonweal; and unde- 
viating firmness in giving to every man according to his deserts; and 
a knowledge derived from experience of the occasions for vigorous 
action and for remission. And I observed that he had overcome all 
passion for joys; and he considered himself no more than any other 
citizen, and he released his friends from all obligation to sup with him 
or attend him of necessity when he went abroad, and those who had 
failed to accompany him, by reason of any urgent circumstances, al- 
ways found him the same. I observed, too, his habit of careful in- 
quiry in all matters of deliberation, and this persistency, and that he 
never stopped his investigation through being satisfied with appear- 
ances which first presented themselves; and ftat his disposition was 
to keep his friends, and not to be soon tired of them, nor yet to be 
extravagant in his affection; and to be satisfied on all occasions and 
cheerful; and to foresee;, things a long way off, and to provide for the 
smallest without display; and to check immediately~ popular applause 
and fiattery; and to be ever watchful over the things that were neces- 
sary for the administration of the empire, and to he a good manager 
of the expenditure, and patiently to endure the blame which he got 
for such conduct; and he was neither superstitious with respect to 
the gods, nor ^d he court men by gifts or by trying to please them, or 
by fiattering the populace; but he showed sobriety in all things and 
* Emperor Aotoninus Pius, who adopted Marcus when he was seventeen 

352 



Meditations 

flnnness, and never any mean thoughts or action, nor love of novel^. 

And the things which conduce in any way to the commodity of 
life, and of which fortune gives an abundant supply, he used without 
arrogance and without excusing himself; so that when he had diem, 
he enjoyed them widiout affectation, and when he had them not he 
did not want them. No one could ever say of him that he was either 
a sophist or a homebred flippant slave or a pedant; but everyone 
acknowledged him to be a man ripe, perfect, above flattery, able to 
manage his own and other men’s affairs. Besides this, he honored 
those who were true philosophers, and he did not reproach those 
who pretended to be philosophers, nor yet was he easily led by them. 
He was also easy in conversation, and he made himself agreeable 
without any offensive affectation. He took a reasonable care of his 
body’s health, not as one who was greatly attached to life, nor out of 
regard to personal appearance, nor yet in a careless way, but so that, 
through his own attention, he very seldom stood in need of the phy- 
sician’s art or of medicine or external applications. He was most 
ready to give way without envy to those who possessed any particu- 
lar facul^, such as that of eloquence or knowledge of the law or of 
morals, or of anything else; and he gave them his help, that each 
might enjoy reputation according to his deserts; and he always acted 
conformably to the institutions of his country, without showing any 
affectation of doing so. 

Further, he was not fond of change, nor unsteady, but he loved to 
stay in the same places, and to employ himself about the same things; 
and after his paroxysms of headache he came iimnediately fresh and 
vigorous to his usual occupations. His secrets were not many, but 
very few and very rare, and these only about public matters; and he 
showed prudence and economy in the exhibition of the public spec- 
tacles and the construction of public buildings, his donations to the 
people, and in such things, for he was a man who looked to what 
ought to be done, not to the reputation which is got by a man’s acts. 
He did not take the bath at unseasonable hours; he was not fcmd of 
building houses, nor curious about what he ate, nor about the tex- 
ture and color of his clothes, nor about the beauty ol his slaves. His 
dress came from Lorium, his villa on the coast, and from Lanuvium 
generally. We know how he behaved to the toll collector at Tuscu- 
lum who asked his pardon; and such was all lus behavior. There was 
in him nothing harsh, nor implacable, nor violent, nor, as one may 
say, anything carried to the sweating point: but he examined' afl 

353 



V Marcus Aurelius 

tbiogs severally, as if be had abundance of time, and widiout ccm- 
fuaon, in an wderly way, vigoroudy and consistently. And that 
mi^t be applied to him which is recorded of Socrates, that he was 
able both to abstain from, and to enjoy, those things which many 
are too weak to abstain from, and cannot enjoy without excess. But 
to be strong enou^ both to bear the one and to be sober in the other 
is the mark of a man who has a perfect and invincible soul. 

To the gods I am indebted for having gbdd grandfathers, good 
parents, a good sister, good teachers, good associates, good kinsmen 
and friends, nearly everything good. Further, I owe it to the gods 
that I was not hurried into any offense against any of them, though 
I had a disposition which, if opportunity had offered, might have 
led me to do something of this Idnd; but, through their favor, there 
never was such a concurrence of circumstances as put me to the 
trial. Further, I am thankful to the gods that I was not longer brought 
up with my grandfather’s concubine, and that I preserved the flower 
of my youth, and that I did not make proof of my virility before the 
proper season, but even deferred the time; that I was subjected to a 
ruler and a father who was able to take away all pride from me, and 
to bring me to the knowledge that it is possible for a man to live in a 
palace without wanting either guards or embroidered dresses, or 
torches and statues, and such show; but it is in such a man’s power 
to bring himself very near to the fashion of a private person, without 
being for this reason either meaner in thought, or more remiss in ac- 
tion, with respect to the things which must be done for the public 
interest in a manner that befits a ruler. 

I thank the gods for ^ving me such a brother, who was able by 
his moral character to rouse me to vigilance over myself, and who, 
at the same time, pleased me by his respect and affection; that my 
children have not been stupid nor defmmed in body; that I did not 
make mote proficiency in rhetoric, poetry and the other studies, in 
which I should perhaps have been completely engaged, if I had seen 
tihat I was maku^ progress in them; that I made haste to place those 
who brought me up in die station of honor, whidi they seemed to de- 
sire, without putting them off with hope of my doing it some time 
a^, because they were then still young; that I knew the philoso- 
phers Apollonius, Rusticus, Maximus; that I received dear and fre* 
(joent impressi<»is about li^dng accor^g to nature, and what kind 

a life Aat is, so that, as mudi as depended cm the gods, and their 
^fts and help and insfuirations, nodiii^ hindered me frcna forthvdth 

354 



Meditations 

living according to nature, though I stiU faU diort of it throu^ my 
own fault, and througih not observing the admonitions of the gods, 
and, I may almost say, their direct instructions; that my body has 
held out so long in such a kind of life; that I never touched either 
Benedicta or Theodotus, and that, after hawng fallen into amatory 
passions, I was cured; and, though I was often out of humor with 
Rusticus, I never did anything of which I had occasion to repent; 
that, though it was my mother’s fate to die young, she spent the last 
years of her life with me; that whenever I wished to help'any man in 
his need, or on any other occasion, I was never told that I had not the 
means of doing it; and that to myself the same necessity never hap- 
pened, to receive anything from another; that I have such a wife,* 
so obedient, and so affectionate, and so simple; that I had abun- 
dance of good masters for my children; and that remedies have been 
shown to me by dreams, [by] others, and against blood-spitting and 
pddiness; and that, when I had an inclination to philosophy I did 
not fall into the hands of any sophist, and that I did not waste my 
time on writers of histories, or in the resolution of syllogisms, or oc- 
cupy myself about the investigation of appearances in the heavens; 
for all Aese things require the help of the gods and fortune. 


n 

B egin the morning by saying to thyself, I shall meet with the 
busybody, the ungrateful, arrogant, deceitful, envious, unsocial. 
All these things happen to them by reason of their ignorance of what 
is good and evil. But I who have seen the nature of the good tiiat it 
is beautiful, and of the bad that it is ug^y, and the nature of him who 
does wrong, that it is akin to me, not oitiy of the same blood or seed, 
but that it participates in the same intelligence and the same, portion 
of the divinity, I can neither be injured by any of them, for no one 
can fix on me what is ugly, nor can I be migry with my kinsman, nor 
hate him. For we are made for co-operatimi, like feet, like hands, 
like eyelids, like the rows of the u[^>er and lower teeth. To act 
againM one another then is contrary to nature; and it is acting against 
one anotiier to be vexed and to nun away. 

Whatever this is that I am, it is a little and breath, and the 
ruling part. Ihrow away thy books; no longer distract tiiyself: it is 
* Panttiaa, dau^tter of Antonbius Pius 


355 



Marcus Aurelius 

not allowed; but as if thou wast now dying, despise the flesh; it is 
blood and bones and a network, a contexture of nerves, veins and 
arteries. See the breath also, what kind of a thing it is; air, and not 
always the same, but every moment sent out and again sucked in. 
The third then is the ruling part; consider thus: thou art an old man; 
no longer let this be a slave, no longer be pulled by the strings like 
a puppet to unsocial movements, no longer be either dissatisfied 
with thy present lot or shrink from the future. .• 

All that is from the gods is full of providence. That which is 
from fortune is not separated from nature or without an interweav- 
ing and involution with the things which are ordered by providence. 
From thence all things flow; and there is besides necessity, and that 
which is for the advantage of the whole universe, of which thou art 
a part. But that is good for every part of nature which the nature of 
the whole brings, and what serves to maintain this nature. Now the 
universe is preserved, as by the changes of the elements so by the 
changes of diings compounded of the elements. Let these principles 
be enough for thee; let them always be fixed opinions. But cast away 
the thirst after books, that thou mayest not die murmuring, but 
cheerfully, truly and from thy heart thankful to the gods. 

Remember how long thou hast been putting off these things, 
and how often thou hast received an opportunity from the gods, and 
yet dost not use it. Thou must now at last perceive of what universe 
thou art a part, and of what administrator of the universe thy exist- 
ence is an efflux, and that a limit of time is fixed for thee, which if 
thou dost not use for clearing away the clouds from thy mind, it will 
go and thou wilt go, and it will never return. 

■(«§ Every moment think steadily as a Roman and a man to do what 
thou hast in hand with perfect and simple dignity and feeling of af- 
fection and freedom and justice, and to ^ve thyself relief from all 
other thoughts. And thou wilt give thyself relief, if thou doest every 
act of thy life as if it were the last, laying aside all carelessness and 
passionate aversion from the commands of reason, and all hypocrisy, 
and sdf-love and discontent with the portion which has been given to 
thee. Thou seest how few the things are which, if a man lays hold of, 
he is able to live a life which flows in quiet, and is like the existence 
of the gods; for the gods on their part will require nothing from him 
who observes these things. 

%•§ Do wrong to thyself, do wrong to thyself, my soul; but thou 
w3t no longer have the opportuni^ of honoring thyself. Eyery man’s 

356 



Meditations 

life is sulficient. But tiiine is nearly finished, though thy soul rever- 
ences not itself, but places thy feHd^ in the souls of others. 

Do the filings external which fall upon thee distract thee? Give 
thyself time to learn something new and good, and cease to be 
whirled around. But then thou must also avoid being carried about 
the other way. For those too are triflers who have wearied them- 
selves in life by their activity, and yet have no object to which to di- 
rect every movement and, in a word, all their thoughts. . . . 

Theophrastus, in his comparison of bad acts — such a compari- 
son as one would make in accordance with the common notions of 
mankind — says, like a true philosopher, that the offenses which are 
committed through desire are more blameable than those which are 
committed through anger. For he who is excited by anger seems to 
turn away from reason with a certain pain and unconscious con- 
traction; but he who offends through desire, being overpowered by 
pleasure, seems to be in a manner more intemperate and more wom- 
anish in his offenses. Rightly then, and in a way worthy of philoso- 
phy, he said that the offense which is committed with pleasure is 
more blameable than that which is committed with pain; and on the 
whole the one is more like a person who has been first wronged and 
through pain is compelled to be angry; but the other is moved by his 
own impulse to do wrong, being carried toward doing something by 
desire. 

Since it is possible that thou mayest depart from life this very 
moment, regulate every act and thou^t accordingly. But to go away 
from among men, if there are gods, is not a thing to be afraid of, for 
the gods will not involve thee in evil; but if indeed they do not exist, 
or if they have no concern about human affairs, what is it to me to 
live in a universe devoid of gods or devoid of providence? But in 
truth they do exist, and they do care for human things, and they 
have put all the means in man’s power to enable him not to fall into 
real evils. And as to the rest, if there was anything evil, they would 
have provided for this also, that it should be altogether in a man’s 
power not to fall into it. Now, that whidi does not make a man 
worse, how can it make a man’s life worse? But neither throu^ ig- 
norance, nor having the knowledge, but not the power to ^ard 
against or correct these things, is it posable that the nature of the 
universe has overlooked them; nor is it posable that it has made so 
great a mistake, effher through want of pown: or want of skill, that 
good and evil ^lonld happen indiscriminately to the good and fiw 

357 



Marcus Aurelius 

bad. But death certainly, and life, honor and dishonor, pain and 
pteasuie, all these things equally happen to good men and bad, being 
things which make us neiAer better nor worse. Therefore they ate 
neither good nor evil. 

How quickly all these things disappear, in the universe the bod- 
ies foemselves, but in time the remembrance of them; what is the 
nature of all sensible things, and particularly foose vdiich attract 
with the bait of pleasure or terrify by pain, or are noised abroad by 
vapory fame; how worthless and contemptible and sordid and per- 
ishable and ^ad they are — all this it is the part of the intellectual 
faculty to observe. To observe too who these are whose opinions and 
voices give reputation; what death is, and the fact that, if a man 
looks at it in itself, and by the abstractive power of reflection resolves 
into their parts all the things which present themselves to the imagi- 
nation in it, he wiU then consider it to be nothing else than an opera- 
tion of nature; and if anyone is afraid of an operation of nature he is 
a child. This, however, is not only an operation of nature, but it is 
also a thing which conduces to the purposes of nature. 

Nofoing is more wretched than a man who traverses everything 
in a round, and pries into the things beneath the earth, as the poet 
says, and seeks by conjecture what is in the minds of his neighbors, 
without perceiving that it is sufficient to attend to the demon within 
him, and to reverence it sincerely. And reverence of the demon con- 
sists in keeping it pure from passion and thoughtlessness, and dis- 
satisfaction with what comes from gods and men. For the things 
from the gods merit veneration for their excellence; and the things 
from mm should be dear to us by reason of kinship; and some- 
times even, in a manner, they move our pity by reason of men’s igno- 
rance of good and bad; this defect being not less than that whub 
(feprives us of the power of distinguishing things that are white and 
black. 

Though thou shouldst live three thousand years^ and as many 
times ten thousand years, still remember that no man loses any other 
life than this which he now lives, nor lives any other than this which 
he now loses. The longest and shortest are thus brought to the smne. 
Fik the present is the same to all, though that which peristes is not 
tile same; and so that which is lost appears to be a mere moment 
Fto a man cannot lose dtfaer the past or the future: for vtiiat a man 
has not, how can anyone take from him? These two things time 
tiiou must bear in mind: the one, that all tilings from eternity ate ci 

358 



Meditations 

like forms and come round in a cirde, and that it makes no differ- 
ence whether a man shall see the same things during a hundred 
years or two hundred, or an infinite time; and the second, that the 
longest liver and he who will die soonest lose just the same. For the 
present is the only thing of which a man can be deprived, if this is 
the only thing which he has, and that a man cannot lose a thing if he 
has it not. . . . 

The soul of man does viotence to itself, first of all, when it be- 
comes an abscess and, as it were, a tumor on the universe, so far as 
it can. For to be vexed at anything which happens is a separation of 
ourselves from nature, in some part of which the natures of all other 
things are contained. In the next place, the soul does violence to it- 
self when it turns away from any man, or even moves toward him 
with the intention of injuring, such as are the souls of those who are 
angry. In the third place, the soul does violence to itself when it is 
overpowered by pleasure or by pain. Fourthly, when it plays a part, 
and does or says anything insincerely and untruly. Fif^y, when it 
allows any act of its own and any movement to without an aim, 
and does anything thoug|htlessly and without considering what it is, 
it being right that even the smallest things be done with reference to 
an end; and the end of rational animals is to follow the reason and 
the law of the most ancient city and polity. 

Of human life the time is a point, and the substance is in a flux, 
and the perception dull, and the composition of the whole body sub- 
ject to putrefaction, and the soul a whirl, and fortune hard to ^vine, 
and fame a thing devoid of judgment. And, to say all in a word, ev- 
erything which belrmgs to the body is a stream, and what bdongs to 
the soul is a dream and vapor, and life is a warfare and a stranger’s 
sojourn, and afterfame is r^livion. What, then, is that whidi is able 
to conduct a man? One thing, and only one — ^philosophy. But this 
consists in keeping the demon within a man free from violence and 
unharmed, superior to pains and pleasures, doing nothing without a 
purpose, nor yet falsdy and with hypocrisy, not feeling the need of 
another man’s doing or not doing anything; and besides, accepting 
aU that happens, and aU that is allotted, as coming from tiience, 
wherever it is, from whence he himself came; and, finally, waiting 
for death with a dieerful mind, as bdng nothing else than a dissolu- 
tion ot the dements of which every living bdng is compounded. But 
if there is no harm to the elmnents themselves in each continuafiy 
dianging into anoth^, why should a man have any aj^prehensicm 

359 



Marcus Aurelius 

about die diange and dissolution all the elements? For it is ac- 
cording to nature, and nothing is evil which is according to nature. 


m 

W E OUGHT TO CONSIDER not only that our life is daily wasting 
away and a smaller part of it is left, but another thing also must 
be taken into the account, that if a man should live longer it is quite 
uncertain whether the understanding will still continue sufficient 
for the comprehension of things, and retain the power of contem- 
plation which strives to acquire the knowledge of the divine and 
the human. For if he shall begin to fall into dotage, perspiration and 
nutrition and imagination and appetite and whatever else there is of 
the kind will not fail; but the power of making use of ourselves and 
filling up the measure of our duty and clearly separating all appear- 
ances and considering whether a man should now depart from life 
and whatever else of the kind absolutely requires a disciplined rea- 
son — all this is already extinguished. We must make haste then, not 
only because we are daily nearer to death, but also because the con- 
ception of things and the understanding of them cease first. 

We ought to observe also that even the things which follow 
after the things which are produced according to nature contain some- 
thing pleasing and attractive. For instance, when bread is baked some 
parts are split at the surface, and these parts which thus open and 
have a certain fashion contrary to the purpose of the baker’s art are 
beautiful in a manner, and in a peculiar way excite a desire for eating. 
And again, figs, when they are quite ripe, gape open, and in the ripe 
olives the very circumstance of their being near to rottenness adds a 
peculiar beauty to the fruit. And the ears of com bending down, and 
the lion’s eyebrows, and the foam which flows from the mouth of wild 
boars, and many other things — ^though they are far from being beauti- 
ful, if a man should examine them severally — still, because they are 
consequent upon the things which are formed by nature, help to adorn 
them, and they please the mind; so that if a man should have a feel- 
ing and deeper insight with respect to the things which are pro- 
(faiced in the universe, there is hardly one of those which follow by 
way of consequence which will not seem to him to be in a manner 
di^>osed so as to give pleasure. And so he will see even the real 
gaping jaws of wild beasts with no less pleasure ffian thqse which 

360 



Meditations 

painters and sculptors show by imitation; and in an old woman and 
an old man he will be able to see a certain maturity and comeliness; 
and the loveliness of young persons he will be able to look on with 
chaste eyes; and many such things will present themselves, not 
pleasing to every man, but to him only who has become truly famil- 
iar with nature and her works. 

Hippocrates, after curing many diseases, himself fell sick and 
died. The Chaldeans foretold the deaths of many, and then fate 
caught them too. Alexander and Pompey, and Julius Caesar, after 
so often completely destroying whole cities, and in battle cutting to 
pieces many ten thousands of cavalry and infantry, themselves too 
at last departed from life. Heraclitus, after so many speculations on 
the conflagration of the universe, was filled with water internally 
and died smeared all over with mud. And lice destroyed Democra- 
tus; and other lice killed Socrates. What means all this? Thou hast 
embarked, thou hast made the voyage, thou art come to shore; get 
out. If indeed to another life, there is no want of gods, not even 
there. But if to a state without sensation, thou wilt cease to be held 
by pains and pleasures, and to be a slave to the vessel, which is as 
much inferior as that which serves it is superior; for the one is in- 
telligence and deity; the other is earth and corruption. 

Do not waste the remainder of thy life in thoughts about others, 
when thou dost not refer thy thoughts to some object of common 
utility. For thou losest the opportunity of doing something dse when 
thou hast such thoughts as these. What is such a person doing, and 
why, and what is he saying, and what is he thinking of, and what 
is he contriving, and whatever else of the kind makes us wander 
away from the observation of our own ruling power. We ought then 
to check in the series of our thoughts everything that is without a 
purpose and useless, but most of all the overcurious feeling and file 
malignant; and a man should use himself to think of those things 
only about which if one should suddenly ask. What hast thou now 
in thy thoughts? with perfect openness thou mightest immediately 
answer: This or that, so that from thy words it should be plain that 
everything in thee is simple and benevolent, and such as befits a 
socM animal, and one that cares not for thoughts about pleasure or 
sensual enjoyments at all, nor has any rivalry ot envy and suspicion, 
or anything else for which fiiou wouldst blush if thou shouldst say 
that fiiou hadst it in thy mind. 

For the man who is such and no longer delays being amoi^-tbe 

361 



Marcus Aurelius 

number of the best is like a priest and mkuster of the gods, using too 
die deity which is planted within him, which makes the man uncon- 
taminat^ by pleasure, unharmed by any pain, untouched by any 
insult, feeling no wrong, a fighter in the noblest fight, one who can- 
not be overpowered by any passion, dyed deep with justice, accept- 
ing with all his soul everything which happens and is assigned to 
him as his portion; and not often, nor yet without great necessity 
and for the general interest, imagining what another says or does or 
thinks. For it is only what belongs to himself that he makes the mat- 
ter for his activity; and he constantly thinks of that which is allotted 
to himself out of the sum total of things, and he makes his own facts 
fair, and he is persuaded that his own portion is good. For the lot 
which is assigned to each man is carried along with him and car- 
ries him along with it. And he remembers also that every rational 
animal is his kinsman, and that to care for all men is according to 
man’s nature; and a man should hold on to the opinion not of all 
but of those only who confessedly live according to nature. But as to 
those who live not so, he always bears in mind what kind of men 
they are, both at home and from home, both by nigjht and by day, 
and what they are, and with what men they live an impure life. Ac- 
cordingly, he does not value at all the praise which comes from such 
men, since they are not even satisfied with themselves. 

Labor not unwillingly, nor without regard to the common in- 
terest, nor without due consideration, nor with distraction; nor let 
studied ornament set off thy thoughts, and be not either a man of 
many words, or busy about too many things. And further, let the 
deity which is in tiiee be the guardian of a living being, manly and of 
ripe age, and engaged in matter political, and a Roman, and a ruler, 
who has taken his post like a man waiting for the signal which sum- 
mons him from life, and ready to go, having need neither of oath nor 
of any man’s testimony. Be cheerful also, and seek not external help 
nor the tranquilfity which others give. A man then mu^ stand erect, 
m>t be kept erect by others. . 

If ^u findest in human life anything better than justice, truth, 
temp^ance, fortitude and, in a word, anyAing better than thy own 
mind’s sdf-satisfaction in the things whi(^ it enables thee to do ac- 
cording to rig^t reason, and in the condition that is assisted to thee 
without thy own choice; if, I say, thou seest anything bettm: than 
this, tiim to it with all thy soul, and enjoy that vdiich thou hast found 
to be die b«tt. But if nothing appears to be better than the deity 

362 



Meditations 

which is planted in diee, whidi has subjected to itself all thy appe> 
tites, and carefully examines all the impressicms, and, as So(a'ates 
said, has detached itself from the persuasions of. sense, and has sub- 
mitted itself to the gods, and cares for mankind; if thou findest ev- 
erything else smaller and of less value than this, ^ve place to noth- 
ing else, for if thou dost once diverge and incline to it, thou wilt no 
longer without distraction be able to ^ve the preference to that good 
thing which is thy proper possession and thy own; for it is not right 
that anything of any other kind, such as praise from the many or 
power or enjoyment of pleasure, should come into competition with 
that which is rationally and politically or practically good. All these 
things, even though they may seem to adapt themselves to the bett« 
things in a small de^^, obtain the superiority all at once and carry 
us away. But do thou, I say, simply and freely choose the better, and 
hold to it. But that which is useful is the better. Well then, if it is only 
useful to thee as a rational being, keep to it; but if it is only useful to 
thee as an animal, say so, and maintain thy judgment without ar- 
rogance; only take care that thou makest the inquiry by a sure 
method. 

Never value anything as profitable to tiiyself which shall com- 
pel thee to break thy promise, to lose thy self-respect, to hate any 
man, to suspect, to curse, to act the hypocrite, to desire anything 
which needs walls and curtains; for he who has preferred to every- 
thing else his own intelligence and demon and the worship of its ex- 
cellence, acts no tragic part, does not groan, will not need either soli- 
tude or much company; and, what is chief of all, he will live without 
either pursuing or flying from death; but whether for a longpr ot a 
Sorter time he shall have the soul enclosed in the body, he cates 
not at all; for even if he must depart immediately, he will go as 
readily as if he were going to do anything else which can be done 
with decency and order; taking care of this only, all throu^ life, 
that his thouglhts turn not away from anything which belongs to an 
intelli^t anim al and a member of a civil community. 

In the mind of one who is (hastened and purified thou wilt find 
no ccnmipt matter, nor uiq>urity, nor any sore sidnned over. Nor is 
his life incomplete udimi fate ovmtakes him, as one may say of an 
actcnr who leaves the stage before ending and fini^ing the play. Be- 
sides, there is in him nothing servile, nor affected, nor too closely 
botmd to other things, nor yet detached bom other things, nothing 
wortiiy of blame, notiiing which seeks a hicfing-jdace. 


363 



Marcus Aurelius 

Reverence the faculty which produces opinion. On this faculty 
it entirely depends whether there shall exist in thy ruling part any 
opinion inconsistent with nature and the constitution of the ratiomd 
animal. And this faculty promises freedom from hasty judgment and 
friendship toward men and obedience to the gods. 

Throwing away, then, all things, hold to these only, which are 
few; and besides bear in mind that every man lives only this present 
time, which is an indivisible point, and that all'die rest of his life is 
either past or it is uncertain. Short then is the time which every man 
lives, and small the nook of the earth where he lives; and short too 
the longest posthumous fame, and even this only continued by a 
succession of poor human beings, who will very soon die, and who 
know not even themselves, much less him who died long ago. 

To the aids which have been mentioned let this one still be 
added: make for thyself a definition or description of the thing which 
is presented to thee, so as to see distinctly what kind of a thing it is 
in its substance, in its nudity, in its complete entirety, and tell thy- 
self its proper name and the names of the things of which it has been 
compounded and into which it will be resolved. For nothing is so 
productive of elevation of mind as to be able to examine methodi- 
cally and truly every object which is presented to thee in life, and al- 
ways to look at things so as to see at the same time what kind of uni- 
verse this is, and what kind of use everything performs in it, and 
what value everything has with reference to the whole, and what 
with reference to man, who is a citizen of the highest city, of which 
all other cities are like families; what each thing is, and of what it is 
composed, and how long it is the nature of this thing to endure which 
now makes an impression on me, and what virtue I have need of 
with respect to it, such as gentleness, manliness, truth, fidelity, sim- 
plicity, contentment, and the rest. 

Wherefore, on every occasion a man should say: This comes from 
God; and this is according to the apportionment and spinning of the 
thread of destiny, and such coincidence and chance; and this is from 
one of die same stock, and a kinsman and partner, one who knows 
not, however, what is according to his nature. But I know; for this 
teascm I behave toward him according to the natural law of fellow- 
ship with benevolence and justice. At the same time, however, in 
things indifferent I attempt to ascertain the value of each. 

If thou woricest at that which is before thee, following rig^t rea- 
son seriously, vigorously, calmly, without allowing anything else to 
distract thee, but keeping thy (Uvinc part pure, as if diou shouldest 

364 



Meditations 

be bound to ^ve it back immediately; if thou boldest to this, expect- 
ing nothing, fearing nothing, but satisfied with thy present activity 
according to nature, and with heroic truth in every word and sound 
which thou utterest, thou wilt live happy. And there is no man who 
is able to prevent this. 

As physicians have always their instruments and knives ready 
for cases which suddenly require their skill, so do thou have princi- 
ples ready for the understanding of things divine and human, and 
for doing everything, even the smallest, with a recollection of the 
bond which unites the divine and human to one another. For neither 
wilt thou do anything well which pertains to man without at the 
same time having a reference to things divine; nor the contrary. . . . 

Body, soul, intelligence; to the body belong sensations, to the 
soul appetites, to the intelligence principles. To receive the impres- 
sions of forms by means of appearances belongs even to animals; 
to be pulled by the strings of desire belongs both to wild beasts and 
to men who have made themselves into women, and to a Phalaris 
and a Nero; *’ and to have the intelligence that guides to the things 
which appear suitable belongs also to those who do not believe in 
the gods, and who betray their country, and do their impure deeds 
when they have shut the doors. If then everything else is common to 
all that I have mentioned, there remains that which is peculiar to 
the good man, to be pleased and content with what happens, and 
with the thread which is spun for him; and not to defile the divinity 
which is planted in his breast, nor disturb it by a crowd of images, 
but to preserve it tranquil, following it obediently as a god, nei&er 
saying anything contrary to the truth, nor doing anything contrary 
to justice. And if all men refuse to believe that he lives a simple, 
modest and contented life, he is neither angry with any of them, nor 
does he deviate the way which leads to the end of life, to which a 
man ought to come pure, tranquil, ready to depart and without any 
compulsion, perfectly reconciled to bis lot. 


IV 

M en seek retreats for themselves, houses in the country, sea- 
shores and mountains; and thou too art wcmt to desire such 
things very much. But this is altogether a mark of the most common 
sort of men, for it is in thy power whenever thou shalt choose to n»- 
* lyrants 


365 



Marcus Aurelius 

tire into tbysdf. For nowhere, eifter with mote quiet or more free- 
dom from trouble, does a man retire than into his own soul, par- 
ticularly when he has within him such thoughts that, by looking into 
them, he is immediately in perfect tranquillity; and I afBrm that 
tranquillity is nothing else than the good ordering of the mind. Con- 
stantly then give to thyself this retreat, and renew thyself; and let 
thy principles be brief and fundamental, which, as soon as thou shalt 
recur to them, will be sufficient to cleanse the soul completely, and j 
to send thee back free from all discontent with the things to which ' 
thou retumest. For with what art thou discontented? With the bad- 
ness of men? Recall to thy mind this conclusion: that rational ani- 
mals exist for one another, and that to endure is a part of jiistice, 
and that men do wrong involuntarily; and consider how many, after 
mutual enmity, suspicion, hatred and fighting, have been stretched 
dead, reduced to ashes; and be quiet at last. But perhaps thou art 
dissatisfied with that which is assigned to thee out of the universe. 
Recall to thy recollection this alternative; either there is providence 
or atoms [fortuitous concurrence of things]; or remember the argu- 
ments by which it has been proved that the world is a kind of politi- 
cal community, and be quiet at last. But perhaps corporeal things 
will still fasten upon thee. 

Consider then further that the mind mingles not with the breath, 
whether moving gently or violently, when it has once drawn itself 
apart and discovered its own power, and think also of all that thou 
hast heard and assented to about pain and pleasure and be quiet at 
last. But perhaps the desire of the thing called fame will torment 
diee. See how soon everything is forgotten, and look at the chaos of 
infinite time on each side of the present, and the emptiness of ap- 
plause and the changeableness and want of judgment in those who 
pretend to give praise, and the narrowness of the space wiffiin which 
it is circumscribed, and be quiet at last. For the whole earth is a 
p(Hifi;, ‘ffiad jiow small a nook in it is this thy dwelling, and how few 
are there in it, and what kind of people are they who will praise thee. 
Hiis then remahis: remember to retire into this litde territory of thy 
own, and, above all, do not distract or strain thyself, but be free, 
and kxdc at things as a man, as a human being, as a cituen, as a mor- 
taL But anitnig the thin^ readiest to thy hand to which thou shalt 
tom, hA ttere be these, wMch are two. Chie is that things do not touch 
the soul, for they are external and remain immovable; but our per- 
tmbations con^ osly^-from tht^ q[nnion whidt is withlm The othn is 

366 



Meditations 

that an these things, which thou seest, change immediately and win 
no longer be; and constantly bear in mind how many of the% 
changes thou hast already witnessed. The universe is transforma- 
tion; life is opinion. 

If our intellectual part is common, the reason also, in respect of 
which we are rational beings, is common; if this is so, common also 
is the reason which commands us what to do and what not to do; if 
this is so, there is a common law also; if this is so, we are fellow dti- 
zens; if this is so, we are members of some political community; if 
this is so, the world is in a manner a state. For of what other com- 
mon political community will anyone say diat the whole human 
race are members? And from thence, from this common political 
community comes also our very intellectual faculty and reasoning 
faculty and our capacity for law; or whence do they come? For as 
my earthly part is a portion given to me from certain earth, and 
that which is watery from another element, and that which is hot and 
fiery from some peculiar source (for nothing comes out of that which 
is nothing, as nothing also returns to non-existence), so also the in- 
tellectual part comes from some source. 

Death is such as generation is, a mystery of nature; a composi- 
tion out of the same elements, and a decomposition into the same; 
and altogether not a thing of which any man should be ashamed, for 
it is not contrary to the nature of a reasonable animal, and not con- 
trary to the reason of our constitution. 

It is natural that these things should be done by such persons; 
it is a matter of necessi^; and if a man will not have it so, he wiU not 
allow the fig tree to have juice. But by all means bear this in mind, 
that within a very short time both thou and he will be dead; and 
soon not even your names will be left behind. . . . 

Consider that everything which happens, happens justly, and 
if thou observes! carefully, thou wilt find it to be so. I do not say only 
with respect to the continuity of the series of things, but with respect 
to what is just, and as if it were done by one who assigns to eadi thing 
its value. Observe then as thou hast begun; and whatever thou 
doest, do it in conjunction with this, the being good, and in the sense 
in which a man is properly untterstood to be good. Keep to this in 
every actimi. 

^ Do not have such an (pinion of things as he has who does 
Aee wr ong , <nr sudi as he wishes dree to have, but look at them as 
th^ are in truth. 


367 



Marcus Aurelius 

A man should always have these two rules in readiness: the 
one, to do only whatever the reason of the ruling and legislating 
faculty may suggest for the use of men; the other, to change thy opin- 
ion, if there is anyone at hand who sets thee right and moves thee 
from any opinion. But this change of opinion must proceed only 
from a certain persuasion, as of what is just or of common advan- 
tage, and the like, not because it appears pleasant or brings repu- 
tation. ... ' 

How much trouble he avoids who does not look to see what his 
neighbor says or does or thinks, but only to what he does himself, 
that it may be just and pure; or as Agafton says, look not around 
at the depraved morals of others, but run straight along the line with- 
out deviating from it. 

He who has a vehement desire for posthumous fame does not 
consider that every one of those who remember him will also die 
very soon; then again also they who have succeeded them, until the 
whole remembrance shall have been extinguished as it is transmitted 
through men who foolishly admire and perish. But suppose that those 
who will remember are even immortal, and that the remembrance 
will be immortal, what then is this to thee? And I say not what is it 
to the dead, but what is it to the living? What is praise, except indeed 
so far as it has a certain utility? For thou now rejectest unseasonably 
the gift of nature, clinging to something else. . . . 

Everything which is in any way beautiful is beautiful in itself, 
and terminates in itself, not having praise as part of itself. Neither 
worse then nor better is a thing made by being praised. I affirm this 
also of the things which are called beautiful by the vulgar; for exam- 
ple, material things and works of art. That which is really beautiful 
has no need of anything; not more than law, not more than truth, 
not more than benevolence or modesty. Which of these things is 
beautiful because it is praised, or spoiled by being blamed? Is such 
a thing as an emerald made worse than it was, if it is-not praised? or 
gold, ivory, purple, a lyre, a little knife, a flower, a shrub? 

If souls continue to exist, how does the air contain them from 
eternity? But how does the earth contain the bodies of those who 
have bem buried from time so remote? For as here the mutation of 
these bodies after a certain continuance, whatever it may be, and 
tiiw dissolution make room for other dead bodies; so the souls which 
are removed into the air after subsisting for some time are trans- 
muted and diffused, and assume a fiery nature by being received 

368 



Mentations 

into the seminal intelligence of the universe, and in this way make 
room for the fresh souls which come to dwell there. And this is the 
answer which a man might g^ve on the hypothesis of the soul’s con- 
tinuing to exist. But we must not only think of the number of bodies 
which are thus buried, but also of the number of animals which are 
daily eaten by us and the other animals. For what number is con- 
sumed, and thus in a manner buried in the bodies of those who feed 
on them? And nevertheless this earth receives them by reason of 
the changes of these bodies into blood, and the transformations into 
the aerial, or the fiery element. What is the investigation into the 
truth in this matter? The division into the material and the formal. 

Do not be whirled about, but in every movement have respect 
for justice, and on the occasion of every impression maintain the 
faculty of comprehension or understanding. 

Everything harmonizes with me, which is harmonious to thee, 
O Universe. Nothing for me is too early nor too late, which is the due 
time for thee. Everything is fruit to me which thy seasons bring, O 
Nature; from thee are all things, in thee are all things, to thee all 
things return. The poet says. Dear City of Cecrops; and wilt not 
thou say. Dear City of Zeus! 

Occupy thyself with few things, says the philosopher, if thou 
wouldst be tranquil. But consider if it would not be better to say. Do 
what is necessary, and whatever the reason of the animal which is 
naturally social requires, and as it requires. For this brings not only 
the tranquillity which comes from doing well, but also that which 
comes from doing few things. For the greatest part of what we say 
and do being unnecessary, if a man takes this away, he will have 
more leisure and less uneasiness. Accordingly on every occasion a 
man should ask himself. Is this one of the unnecessary things? Now 
a man should take away not only unnecessary acts, but also unneces- 
sary thoughts, for thus superfluous acts will not follow after. . 

«•§ Try how the life of the good man suits thee, the life of him who 
is satisfied with his portion out of the whole, and satisfied with his 
own just acts and benevolent disporition. 

Hast thou seen those things? Look also at these. Do not dis- 
turb thyself. Make thyself all simplicity. Does anyone do wrong? 
It is to himself that he does the wrong. Has anything hap- 
pened to thee? Well, out of the universe from the begnning every- 
thing which happens has been apportioned and spun out to thee. 
In a word, tiiy life is short Thou must turn to profit the pnss- 

369 



Marcus Aurelius 

ent by the aid of reason and justice. Be sober in thy relaxation. 

Either it is a well-arranged universe or a chaos huddled to- 
gether, but still a universe. But can a certain order subsist in thee, 
and disorder in the All? And this, too, when all things are so sepa- 
rated and diffused and sympathetic. . . . 

If he is a stranger to the universe who does not know what is in 
it, no less is he a stranger who does not know what is doing on it. He 
is a runaway, who flies from social reason; he -is blind, who shuts 
the eyes of the understanding; he is poor, who has need of another 
and has not from himself all things which are useful for life. He is 
an abscess on the universe who withdraws and separates himself 
from the reason of our common nature through being displeased 
with the things which happen, for the same nature produces this and 
has produced thee too; he is a piece rent asunder from the state, who 
tears his own soul from that of reasonable animals, which is 
one. . . . 

Love the art, poor as it may be, which thou hast learned, and 
be content with it; and pass through the rest of life like one who has 
entrusted to the gods with his whole soul all that he has, making 
thyself neither the tyrant nor the slave of any man. 

Consider, for example, the times of Vespasian.* Thou wilt see 
all these things, people marrying, bringing up children, sick, dying, 
warring, feasting, trafficking, cultivating the ground, flattering, ob- 
stinately arrogant, suspecting, plotting, wishing for some to die, 
grumbling about the present, loving, heaping up treasure, desiring 
consulship, kingly power. Well, then, that life of these people no 
longer exists at Again, remove to the times of Trajan.* Again, 
all is the same. Their life, too, is gone. In like maimer view also the 
other epochs of time and of whole nations, and see how many after 
great efforts soon fell and were resolved into the elements. But chiefly 
thou shouldst think of those whom thou hast thyself known distract- 
ing themselves about idle things, ne^ecting to do what was in accord- 
ance with their proper constitution, and to hold firmly to this and to 
be conti^t with it. And herein it is necessary to remember that the at- 
tention given to everything has its proper value and proportion. For 
thus thou wilt not be dissatisfied, if thou appliest tiiyself to smaller 
matters no further than is fit. 

«•§ The words which were formerly familiar are now antiquated; so 
also the names of those who were famed of old asc now in a manner 
* before the time of Marcus Aurdhis 

370 



Meditations 

antiquated: Camillus, Caeso, Volesus, Leonnatus, and a little aftw 
also Scipio and Cato, then Augustus, dien also Hadrian and Anto- 
ninus. For all things soon' pass away and become a mere tale, and 
complete oblivion soon buries them. And I say this of those who 
have shone in a wondrous way. For the rest, as soon as they have 
breathed out dieir breath, they are gone, and no man speaks of 
them. And, to conclude the matter, what is even an eternal remem- 
brance? A mere nothing. What, then, is that about which we ou^t 
to employ our serious pains? These things: thou^ts just, and acts 
social, and words which never lie, and a disposition which gladly 
accepts all that happens as necessary, as usual, as flowing from 
a principle and source of the same kind. . . . 

Observe constantly that all things take place by change, and 
accustom thyself to consider that the nature of the universe loves 
nothing so much as to change the things which are, to make new 
things like them. For everything that exists is in a manner the seed 
of that which will be. Thou art thinking only of seeds which are cast 
into the earth or into a womb; but this is a very vulgar notion. . . . 

What is evil to thee does not subsist in the ruling principle of 
another; nor yet in any turning and mutation of thy corporeal cover- 
ing. Where is it then? It is in that part of thee in which subsists the 
power of forming opinions about e^s. Let this power dien not form 
such opinions, and all is well. And if that which is nearest to it, the 
poor body, is cut, burned, filled with matter and rottenness, never- 
theless let the part which forms opinions about these things be quiet, 
that is, let it judge that nothing is either bad or good which can hap- 
pen equally to the bad man and the good. For that which happens 
equally to him who lives contrary to natiure and to him who lives 
accor^ng to nature is neither according to nature nor contrary to 
nature. 

Constantly regard the universe as one living being having one 
substance and one soul; and observe how all things have reference 
to one perception, the perception oi this one living being; and how 
all things act with one movement; and how all things are the co- 
operating causes oi all dungs which exist; observe too die continuous 
spinning of the thread and die contexdue of the web. 

Thou art a litde soul bearing idiout a corpse, as Epictetus used 

to say. 

It is no evil for things to undergo change, and no good to 
things to subsist in consequence of diange. 


371 



Marcus Aurelius 

Time is like a river made up of the events which happen, and a 
violent stream; for as soon as a thing has been seen, it is carried 
away, and another comes in its place, and this will be carried away 
too. 

Everything which happens is as familiar and well-known as the 
rose in spring and the fruit in summer; for such are disease and death 
and calumny and treachery and whatever else delights fools or vexes 
them. 

In the series of things, those which follow are always aptly 
fitted to those which have gone before; for this series is not like a 
mere enumeration of disjointed things, which has only a necessary 
sequence, but it is a rational connection; and as all existing things 
are arranged together harmoniously, so the things which come into 
existence exhibit no mere succession, but a certain wonderful rela- 
tionship. 

Always remember the saying of Heraclitus: that the death of 
earth is to become water, and the death of water is to become air, 
and the death of air is to become fire, and reversely. And think too 
of him who forgets where the way leads, and that men quarrel with 
that with which they are most constantly in communion, the reason 
which governs the universe; and the things which they daily meet 
with seem to them strange; and consider that we ought not to act and 
speak as if we were asleep, for even in sleep we seem to act and 
speak; and that we ought not, like children who learn from their 
parents, simply to act and speak as we have been taught. 

* 0 % If any god told thee that thou shalt die tomorrow, or certainly 
on the day after tomorrow, thou wouldst not care much whether it 
was on the third day or on the morrow, unless thou wast in the high- 
est degree mean-spirited — ^for how small is the difference — so 
think it no great thing to die after as many years as thou canst name 
rather than tomorrow. 

* 0 ^ Think continually how many physicians are dead after often 
ccmtracting their eyebrows over the sick; and how many astrologers 
after predicting with great pretensions the deaths of others; and how 
many {diilosophers after endless discourses on death or immortality; 
how many heroes after killing thousands; and how many tyrants who 
have used their power over men’s lives with terrible insolmice as if 
they were immorial; and how many cities are entirely dead, so to 
speak, Helice and Pompeii and Herculaneum, and others innumer- 
able. Add to the reckoning all whom thou hast known, 009 after an- 

372 



Meditations 

other. One man after burying another has been laid out dead, and an> 
other buries him; and all this in a short time. To conclude, always 
observe how ephemeral and worthless human things are, and what 
was yesterday a little mucus, tomorrow will be a mummy or ashes. 
Pass then through this little space of time conformably to nature, and 
end thy journey in content, just as an olive falls off when it is ripe, 
blessing nature who produced it, and thanking the tree on which it 
grew. 

Be like the promontory against which the waves continually 
break, but it stands firm and tames the fury of the water around it. 
Unhappy am I, because this has happened to me? — ^Not so, but 
Happy am I, though this has happened to me, because I continue 
free from pain, neither crushed by the present nor fearing the future. 
For such a thing as this might have happened to every man; but ev- 
ery man would not have continued free from pain on such an occa- 
sion. Why, then, is that rather a misfortune than this a good fortune? 
And dost thou in all cases call that a man’s misfortune, which is not 
a deviation from man’s nature? And does a thing seem to thee to be 
a deviation from man’s nature, when it is not contrary to the will of 
man’s nature? Well, thou knowest the will of nature. Will then this 
which has happened prevent thee from being just, magnanimous, 
temperate, prudent, secure against inconsiderate opinions and false- 
hood; will it prevent thee from having modesty, freedom, and every- 
thing else, by the presence of which man’s nature obtains all that is 
its own? Remember, too, on every occasion which leads thee to 
vexation to apply this principle; not that this is a misfortune, but 
that to bear it nobly is good fortune. 

It is a vulgar but still a useful help toward contempt of death 
to pass in review those who have tenaciously stuck to life. What 
more then have they gained than those who have died early? Cer- 
tainly they lie in their tombs somewhere at last, Cadidanus, Fabius, 
Julianus, Lepidus, or anyone else like them, who have carried out 
many to be buried, and then were carried out themselves. Alto- 
gether the interval is small betwemi birth and deadi; and considn 
with how much trouble, and in company with what sort of people, 
and in what a feeble body this interval is labmiously passed. Do not 
then consider life a thing of any value. For look to die immensiy of 
time behind thee, and to die time which is before thee, another 
boundless space. In dfis infinity then what is the difference between 
him who lives three days and him who lives three generations? 

' 373 



Marcus Aurelius 

««$ Always run to the short way; and the short way is the natural; 
accordingly say and do everything in conformity with the soundest 
reason. For such a purpose frees a man from trouble and warfare, 
and all artifice and ostentatious display. 


V 

I N THE MORNING when thou risest unwillin^y, let this thought be 
present: I am rising to the work of a human being. Why then am 
I dissatisfied if I am going to do the things for which I exist and for 
which I was brought into the world? Or have I been made for this, 
to lie in the bedclothes and keep myself warm? But this is more 
pleasant. Dost thou exist then to take thy pleasure, and not at all for 
action or exertion? Dost thou not see the little plants, the little birds, 
the ants, the spiders, the bees working together to put in order their 
several parts of the universe? And art thou unwilling to do the work 
of a human being, and dost thou not make haste to do that which is 
according to thy nature? But it is necessary to take rest also. It is 
necessary; however, nature has fixed bounds to this too; she has fixed 
boimds both to eating and drinking, and yet thou goest beyond these 
bounds, beyond what is sufficient; yet in thy acts it is not so, but 
thou stoppest short of what thou canst do. So thou lovest not thyself, 
for if thou didst, thou wouldst love thy nature and her will. But those 
who love their several arts exhaust themselves in working at them 
unwaslied and without food; but thou valuest thy own nature less 
than the turner values the turning art, or the dancer the dancing art, 
or the lover of money values his money, or the vainglorious man his 
little gilory. And such men, when they have a violent affection to a 
thing, choose neither to eat nor to sleep rather than to perfect the 
things which they cate for. But are the acts which concern society 
more >ffie in thy eyes and less worthy of thy labor? _ 

itf^How easy it is to repel and to wipe away every impression 
whidi is troublesome or unsuitable, and inunediately to be in all tran- 
quiUity. 

Judge every word and deed which are according to nature to be 
fit for fitee; and be not diverted by the blame which follows from 
any peopte, nor by that words, but if a dung is good to be done 
said, do not consider it imworthy of thee. For those persons have 
thdr peculiar leading prindple and follow their peculiar movonait; 

374 



Meditations 

which things do not thou regard, but go straigjht on, following diy 
own nature and the conunon nature; and the way of both is one. 

I go through the things which happen according to nattire until 
I shaU f^ and rest, breathing out my breath into that dement out 
of which I daily draw it in, and falling upon that earth out of wtuch 
my father collected the seed, and my mother the blood, and my 
nurse the milk; out of which during so many years I have been sup- 
plied with food and drink; which bears me when I tread on it and 
abuse it for so many purposes. 

Thou sayest men cannot admire die sharpness of thy wits. Be 
it so; but there are many other things of which thou canst not say, I 
am not formed for them by nature. Show those qualities then wUch 
are altogether in thy power: sincerity, gravity, endurance of labor, 
aversion to pleasure, contentment with thy pcntion and with few 
things, benevolence, frankness, no love of superfluity, freedom from 
trifling magnanimity. Dost thou not see bow many qualities thou art 
immediately able to exhibit, in which there is no excuse of natural 
incapacity and unfltness, and yet thou still remainest voluntarily be- 
low the mark? Or art thou compelled through being defectively fur- 
nished by nature to murmur and to be stingy and to flatter and to 
And fault with thy poor body and to try to please men and to make 
great display and to be so restless in thy mind? No, by the gods; but 
thou mightest have been delivered from these things long ago. Only 
if in truth thou canst be charged with being rather dow and dull of 
comprehension, thou must exert thyself about this also, not ne^ect- 
ing it nor yet taking pleasure in thy dullness. 

One man, when he has done a service to another, is ready to set 
it down to his account as a favor conferred. Another is not ready 
to do this, but still in his own mind he thinks of the man as his delHor, 
and he knows what he has done. A third in a manner does ncA even 
know what he has done, but be is like a vine whidi has produced 
grapes, and seeks for nothing more after it has cmce produced its 
proper fruit. As a horse when he has run, a dog when he has tracked 
the game, a bee when it has made tiie honey, so a man when he has 
done a good act, does not caO out for others to come and see, but 
he goes on to another act, as a vine goes on to produce i^;ain the 
grapes in season. Must a man timn be one of these who act thus 
vdihout observing it? Yes. But tiiis very tiiihg is necessary, the 
semtion of what a man is doing; £(», it may tw Mid it is charadn^. 
ibtic of tile social animsi to pec^ve that lis is working In a social 

375 



Marcus Aurelius 

maoiMsr, and indeed to wish that his social partner also should per- 
cdve it It is true what thou sayest, but thou dost not rightly under- 
stand what is now said; and for this reason thou wilt become one of 
those of whom I spoke before, for even they are misled by a cer tain 
show of reason. But if thou wilt choose to understand the meaning 
of what is said, do not fear that for this reason thou wilt omit any 
social act. . . . 

* 0 ^ Just as we must understand when it is said that Aesculapius 
prescribed to this man horse-exercise or bathing in cold water or 
going without shoes, so we must understand it when it is said that 
the nature of the universe prescribed to this man disease or mutila- 
tion or loss or anything else of the kind. For in the first case “pre- 
scribed” means something like this: he prescribed this for this man 
as a thing adapted to procure health; and in the second case it means 
that that which happens to or suits every man is fixed in a manner 
suitable to his destiny. For this is what we mean when we say that 
things are suitable to us, as the workmen say of squared stones in 
walls or the pyramids that they are suitable when they fit them to 
one another in some kind of connection. For there is altogether one 
fitness piarmony]. And as the universe is made up out of all bodies 
to be such a body as it is, so out of all existing causes necessity [des- 
tiny] is made up to be such a cause as it is. And even those who are 
completely ignorant understand what I mean, for they say. It [ne- 
cessity, destiny] brought this to such a person. This, then, was brought 
and tiiis was prescribed to him. Let us then receive these things, as 
well as those which Aesculapius prescribes. Many, as a matter of 
course, even among his prescriptions, are disagreeable, but we ac- 
cept them in the hope of health. Let the perfecting and accomplish- 
ment of the things, which the common nature judges to be good, be 
judged by thee to be of the same kind as thy health. And so accept 
everything which happens, even if it seems disagreeable, because it 
leads to this, to the health of the universe and to the -prosperity and 
felicity of Zeus [the universe]. For he would not have brougjit on 
any man what he has brought, if it were not useful for the whole. 
Ndther does the nature of anything, whatever it may be, cause any- 
thing whidi is not suitable to that which is directed by it. For two 
reasons, then, it is right to be content with that which happens to 
thee; the one, because it was done for thee and prescribed for thee, 
and in a manner had reference to thee, ori^ally from the most 
andent causes spun with tiiy destiny; and the other, because even 

376 



Meditations 

that which comes severally to every man is to the power which ad* 
ministers the universe a cause of felicity and perfection, nay even of 
its very continuance. For the integrity of the whole is mutilated if 
thou cuttest of! anything whatever from the conjunction and the con- 
tinuity either of the parts or of the causes. And thou dost cut off, as 
far as it is in tiiy power, when thou art dissatisfied, and in a manner 
triest to put anything out of the way. 

Be not disgusted, nor discouraged, nor dissatisfied if thou dost 
not succeed in doing everything according to rigiht principles; but 
when thou hast failed, return back again, and be content if the 
greater part of what thou doest is consistent with man’s nature, and 
love this to which thou retumest; and do not return to philosophy as 
if she were a master, but act like those who have sore eyes and apply 
a bit of sponge and egg, or as another applies a plaster or drenching 
with water. For thus thou wilt not fail to obey reason and thou wilt 
repose in it. And remember that phUosophy requires only the things 
which thy nature requires; but thou wouldst have something dse 
which is not according to nature. It may be objected. Why, what is 
more agreeable than this which I am doing? But is not this the very 
reason why pleasure deceives us? And consider if magnanimity, 
freedom, simplicity, equanimity, piety are not more agreeable. For 
what is more agreeable than wisdom itself, when thou thinkest of 
the security and the happy course of all things which depend oil 
the faculty of understanding and knowledge? 

Things are in such a kind of envelopment that they have 
seemed to philosophers, not a few nor those common philosophers, 
altogether unintelligible; nay even to the Stoics themselves they 
seem difficult to understand. And all our assent is changeable; for 
where is the man who never changes? Carry thy thou^ts then to 
the objects themselves, and consider how short-lived they are and 
worthless, and that they may be in the possession of a filthy wretch 
or a whore or a robber. Then turn to the morals of those who live 
with thee, and it is hardly possible to endure evoa the most agree- 
able of them, to say nothing of a man being hardly able to endure 
himself. In such darkness then, and dirt, and in so ctmstmit a flux, 
both of substance and of time, and of motion, and of things moved, 
what there is worth being hi^y prized, or even an object of serious 
pursuit, I cannot ima^e. But on the contrary it is a msm’s duty 
to comfort himself and to wait for the natural dissolutimi and n^ 
to be vexed at the delay, but to test in these princi|des only: tiie one, 

377 



Marcus Aurelius 

that nothing will happen to him which is not confonnable to the na- 
ture of the universe; and the other, that it is in his power never to 
act contrary to his god and demon, for there is no man who will com- 
pel him to this. . . . 

What kind of things those are which appear good to the man, 
we may learn even from this. For if any man should conceive cer- 
tain things as being really good, such as prudence, temperance, jus- 
tice, fortitude, he would not, after having ^first conceived these, 
endure to listen to anything which should not be in harmony with 
what is really good. But if a man has first conceived as go^ the 
things which appear to the many to be good, he will listen and read- 
ily receive as very applicable that which was said by the comic 
writer. Thus even the many perceive the difference. For were it not 
so, this saying woidd not offend and would not be rejected in the 
first case, while we receive it when it is said of wealth, and of the 
means which further luxury and fame, as said fitly and wittily. Go 
on then and ask if we should value and think those things to be 
good to which, after their first conception in the mind, the words of 
^e comic writer might be aptly applied — ^that he who has them, 
through pure abundance, has not a place to ease himself in. 

am composed of the formal and the material; and neither of 
them will perish into non-existence, as neither of them came into 
existence out of non-existence. Every part of me then will be reduced 
by change into some part of the universe, and that again will change 
into another part of die universe, and so on forever. And by conse- 
quence of such a change I too exist, and those who begot me, and so 
oin forever in the other direction. For nothing hinders us from say- 
ing so, even if the universe is administered according to definite 
periods of revolution. . . . 

None of these things ought to be called a man’s which do not 
bdbng to a man as a man. They are not required Of a man, nor 
does man’s nature promise them, nor are Ibey the iroans of man’s 
nature attaining its end. Neither then does ^ end of man lie in 
dwse things, nor yet that which aids to the accomplidiment of this 
end, and that which aids toward this end is that ^hidi is good. Be- 
aidc^ if any of diese things did belong to mtm, it would not be ri^t 
:for a man to despise them and to set himseU agamst them; nm would 
a man be worthy of praise who showed that he did not want these 
things, nor woidd he who stinted himsdf in any of them be good, 

ind^ these things vme good. But now die mme of thisse thisigs 

378 



Meditations 

a man deprives himself of, or of other tlungs like than, or even 
when he is deprived of any of them, the more patiently he endures 
the loss, just in the same degree he is a better man. 

Such as are thy habitual thoughts, such also will be the char- 
acters of thy mind; for the soul is dyed by the thoughts. Dye it then 
with a continuous series of such thoughts as these: for instance, that 
where a man can live, there he can also live well. But he must live 
in a palace — ^well then, he can also live well in a palace. And again, 
consider that for whatever purpose each thing has been constituted, 
for this it has been constituted, and toward Uiis it is carried; and its 
end is in that toward which it is carried; and where the end is, there 
also is the advantage and the good of each thing. Now the good for 
the reasonable animal is society; for that we are made for society has 
been shown above. Is it not plain that the inferior exist for the sake 
of the superior? But the things which have life are superior to those 
which have not life, and of those which have life, the superior are 
those which have reason. 

To seek what is impossible is madness; and it is impossible that 
the bad should not do something of this kind. 

Nothing happens to any man which he is not formed by nature 
to bear. The same things happen to another, and either because he 
does not see that they have happened or because he would riiow a 
great spirit, he is firm and remains unharmed. It is a shame then 
Aat ignorance and conceit should be stronger than wisdom. 

Things themselves touch not the soul, not in the least degree; 
nor have they admission to the soul, nor can they turn or move the 
soul; but the soul turns and moves itself alone, and whatever judg- 
ments it may think proper to mal», such it makes for itself die dungs 
which present themselves to it. 

In one respect man is the nearest thing to me, so far as I must 
do good to men and endure them. But so far as some men make 
themselves obstacles to my proper acts, man becomes to me one of 
the things which are indifferent, no less than the sun or wind or a 
wild beast. Now it is true that these may impede my acdon, but they 
are no impediments to my affects and disporidon, which have the 
power of acting condhionally and chan^g; for the mind converts 
and changes every hindrance to its acdvi^ into an aid; and so that 
which is a hmdrance is made a furtherance to an act; and that which 
is an obstade on die road helps us on this road. 

Reverence that which is best in the universe and this b- that 

379 



Marcus Aurelius 

which makes use of all things and directs all things. And in like man- 
ner also levorence that which is best in thyself; and tins is of the 
same kind as that. For in thyself also, that which makes use of every- 
thing else is this, and thy life is directed by this. 

That which does no harm to the state does no harm to the citi- 
zen. In the case of every appearance of harm apply this rule: if the 
state is not harmed by ^s, neither am I harmed. But if the state is 
harmed, thou must not be angry with him who dd'es harm to the state. 
Show him where his error is. 

Often think of the rapidity with which things pass by and dis- 
appear, both the things which are and the things which are produced. 
For substance is like a river in a continual flow, and the activities 
of things are in constant change, and the causes work in infinite va- 
rieties; and there is hardly anything which stands still. And consider 
this which is near to thee, this boundless abyss of the past and of 
the future in which all things disappear. How then is he not a fool 
who is puffed up with such things or plagued about them and makes 
hims elf miserable? For they vex him only for a time, and a short 
time. 

Think of the universal substance, of which thou hast a very 
small portion; and of universal time, of which a short and indivisible 
interval has been assigned to thee; and of that which is fixed by des- 
tiny, and how small a part of it thou art. 

Does another do me wrong? Let him look to it. He has his own 
disposition, his own activity. I now have what the universal nature 
wills me to have; and I do what my nature now wills me to do. 

Let the part of thy soul which leads and governs be undisturbed 
by the movements in the fiesh, whether of pleasure or of pain; and 
let it not unite with them, but let it circumscribe itself and limit those 
affects to their parts. But when these affects rise up to the mind by 
virtue of that other sympathy that naturally exists in a body which 
is all one, then thou must not strive to resist the sensation, for it is 
natural, but let not the ruling part add to the sensation the opinion 
that it is either good or bad. 

Live with the gods. And he does live with the gods who con- 
stantly shows to them that his own soul is satisfied with that which 
is asrigned to him, and that it does all that the demon wishes, whidi 
Zois hath ^ven to every man for his guardian and guide, a portion 
of himsdf. And thk is every man’s understanding and reason. 

Art thou angry with him whose armpits stink? Art thou mgry 

380 



Meditations 

with him whose mouth smells foul? What good will this an yif do 
thee? He has such a mouth, he has such annpits; it is necessary that 
such an emanation must come from such things — but the twan has 
reason, it will be said, and he is able, if he takes pains, to discover 
wherein he offends. I wish thee well for thy discovery. Well, then, 
thou hast reason; by thy rational faculty stir up his rational faculty; 
show him his error, admonish him. For if he listens, thou wilt cure 
him, and there is no need of anger. 

As thou intendest to live when thou art gone out ... so it is 
in thy power to live here. But if men do not permit thee, then get 
away out of life, as if thou wert suffering no harm. The house is 
smoky, and I quit it. Why dost thou think that this is any trouble? 
But so long as nothing of the kind drives me out, I remain, am free, 
and no man shall hinder me from doing what I choose; and I choose 
to do what is according to the nature of the rational and social ani- 
mal. 

*0^ The intelligence of the universe is social. Accordingly it has 
made the inferior things for the sake of the superior, and it has fitted 
the superior to one another. Thou seest how it has subordinated, 
co-ordinated and assigned to everything its proper portion, and 
brought into concord with one another the things which are the best. 

How hast thou behaved hitherto to the gods, thy parents, breth- 
ren, children, teachers, to those who looked after thy infancy, to thy 
friends, kinsfolk, to thy slaves? Consider if thou hast hitherto behaved 
to all in such a way that this may be said of thee: 

Never has wronged a man in deed or word. 

And call to recollection both how many things thou hast passed 
throu^, and how many things thou hast been able to endure; and 
that the history of thy life is now complete, and thy service is ended; 
and how many beau^ul things thou hast seen; and how many pleas- 
ures and pains thou hast despised; and how many things called hon- 
orable thou hast spumed; and to how many ill-minded folks thou 
hast shown a kind disposition. . . . 

Soon, very soon, thou \^t be ashes or a skeleton, and either a 
name ot not even a name; but name is soimd and echo. And the 
things which are much valued in life are empty and rotten and tri- 
fling, and like little dogs biting one another, and little children quar- 
reling, laughing and then straigihtway weepii^. But fideliQr and 
modes^ and justice and truth are fled 


381 



Marcus Aurelius 

Vp to Olympus from the widespread earth 

— ^Heuod. 

What then is there which still detdns diee here? if the objects of 
sense are easily changed and never stand still, and the organs of per- 
ception are dull and easily receive false impressions; and the poor 
soul itself is an exhalation from blood. But to have good repute 
amid such a world as this is an empty thing., ^jVhy then dost thou 
not wait in tranquillity for thy end, whether it is extinction or re- 
moval to another state? And until that time comes, what is suffi- 
cient? Why, what else than to venerate the gods and bless them, and 
to do good to men, and to practice tolerance and self-restraint; but 
as to everything which is beyond the limits of the poor flesh and 
breath, to remember that this is neither thine nor in ffiy power. 

Thou canst pass thy life in an equable flow of happiness, if thou 
canst go by the ri^t way, and think and act in the right way. These 
two things are common both to the soul of God and to the soul of 
man, and to the soul of every rational being, not to be hindered by 
another; and to hold good to consist in the disposition to justice and 
the practice of it, and in this to let thy desire find its termination. 

If this is neither my own badness, nor an effect of my own bad- 
ness, and the commonweal is not injured, why am I troubled about 
it? And what is the harm to the commonweal? 

Do not be carried along inconsiderately by the appearance of 
things, but give help to all according to thy ability and ffieir fitness; 
and if they should have sustained loss in matters which are indiffer- 
ent, do not ima^ne this to be a damage. For it is a bad habit. But 
as the old man, when he went away, asked back his foster child’s 
top, remembering that it was a top, so do thou in this case also. 
When thou art calling out on the Rostra, hast thou forgotten, man, 
what these things are? Yes; but they are objects of great concern to 
these people. Wilt thou too then be made a fool for these things? 
I was once a fortunate man, but I lost it, I know not Sow. But “for- 
tunate” means that a man has assigned to himself a good fortune; 
and a good fortune is good disposition of the soul, good emotions, 
good actions. 


38:2 



VI 


T he substance of the universe is obedient and compliant; and 
the reason which governs it has in itself no cause for doing evil, 
for it has no malice, nor does it do evil to anything, nor is anything 
harmed by it. But all things are made and perfected according to 
this reason. 

Let it make no difference to thee whether thou art cold or 
warm, if thou art doing thy duty; and whether thou art drowsy or sat- 
isfied with sleep; and whether ill-spoken of or praised; and whether 
dying or doing something else. For it is one of the acts of life, this act 
by which we die; it is sufficient then in this act also to do well what we 
have in hand. . . . 

The reason which governs knows its own disposition and what 
it does and on what material it works. 

<«^The best way of avenging thyself is not to become like the 
wrongdoer. 

<«§ Take pleasure in one thing and rest in it, in passing from one 
social act to another social act, ffiinking of God. 

The ruling principle is that which rouses and turns itself, and 
while it makes itself such as it is and such as it ivills to be, it also 
makes everything which happens appear to itself to be such as it 
wills. 

In conformity to the nature of the universe every single thing 
is accomplished, for certainly it is not in conformity to any other 
nature that each thing is accomplished, either in a nature which ex- 
ternally comprehends this, or a nature which is comprehended within 
Uiis nature, or a nature external and independent of this. 

The universe is either a confusion and a mutual involution of 
things and a dispersion; or it is unity and order and providence. If 
then it is the former, why do I desire to tarry in a fortuitous com- 
bination of things and such a disorder? And why do I care aboiH 
anything else than how I shall at last become earth? And why am 
1 disturbed? For die dispersion of my elements will happen what- 
ever I do. But if die other suppoadon is true, I vcmerate and I am 
firm and I trust in him who governs. 

When thou hast been compelled by drcuimtances to be dis- 
torbed in a manner, quickly return to thjrself and do not condmie 

3&3 



Marcus Aurelius 

out of tune longer than the compulsion lasts! For thou wilt have 
more mastery over the harmony by continually recurring to it. 

If thou hadst a stepmother and a mother at the same time, thou 
wouldst be dutiful to thy stepmother, but still thou wouldst constantly 
return to thy mother. Let the court and philosophy now be to thee 
stepmother and mother; return to philosophy frequently and repose 
in her, through whom what thou meetest with in the court appears 
to thee tolerable, and thou appearest tolerable in' the court. 

When we have meat ^fore us and such eatables, we receive 
the impression that this is the dead body of a fish and this is the 
dead body of a bird or a pig; and again, that this Falemian wine is 
only a litUe grape juice, and this purple robe some sheep’s wool dyed 
with the blood of a shellfish; such then are these impressions, and 
they reach the things themselves and penetrate them, and so we see 
what kind of things they are. Just in the same way ought we to act 
all through life, and where there are things which appear most 
worthy of our approbation, we ought to lay them bare and look at 
their worthlessness and strip them of all Ae words by which they 
are exalted. For outward show is a wonderful perverter of the rea- 
son, and when thou art most sure that thou art employed about 
things worth thy pains, it is then that it cheats thee most. 

Most of the things which the multitude admire are referred to 
objects of the most general kind, those which are held together by 
cohesion or natural organization, such as stones, wood, fig trees, 
vines, olives. But those which are admired by men who are a little 
more reasonable are referred to the things which are held together 
by a living principle, as flocks, herds. Those which are admired by 
men who are still more instructed are the things which are held to- 
gether by a rational soul, not however a universal soul, but rational 
so far as it is a soul skilled in some art, or expert in some other way, 
or simply rational so far as it possesses a number of slaves. But he 
who values a rational soul, a soul universal and fitted, for political 
life, regards nothing else except this; and above all filings he keeps 
his soul in a condition and in an activity conformable to reason and 
social life, and he co-operates to this end with those who are of the 
same kind as himself. 

Some things are hurrying into existence, and others are hurry- 
ing out of it; and of that which is coming into existence part is al- 
ready extinguifiied. Motions and changes are continually renewing 
the world, just as the uninterrupted course of time is always renew- 

3$4 



Meditations 

ing the infinite duration of ages. In this flowing stream then, on 
which there is no abiding, what is there of the things which hurry 
by on which a man would set a high price? It would be just as if a 
man should fall in love with one of the sparrows which fly by, but 
it has already passed out of sight. Something of this kind is the very 
life of every man, like the exhalation of the blood and die respira- 
tion of the air. For such as it is to have once drawn in the air and 
to have given it back, which we do every moment, just the same it 
is with the whole respiratory power, which thou didst receive at thy 
birth yesterday and the day before, to give it back to the element 
from which thou didst first draw it. 

«•§ Neither is transpiration, as in plants, a thing to be valued, nor 
respiration, as in domesticated animals and wild beasts, nor the re- 
ceiving of impressions by the appearances of things, nor being 
moved by desires as puppets by strings, nor assembling in herds, nor 
being nourished by food; for this is just like the act of separating 
and parting with the useless part of our food. What then is worth 
being valued? To be received with clapping of hands? No. Neither 
must we value the clapping of tongues for the praise which comes 
from the many is a clapping of tongues. Suppose then that thou hast 
given up this worthless thing called fame, what remains that is worth 
valuing? This, in my opinion, is to move thyself and to restrain thy- 
self in conformity to thy proper constitution, to which end both kn 
employments and arts lead. For every art aims at this, that the thing 
which has been made should be adapted to the work for which it 
has been made; and both the vine planter who looks after the vine, 
and the horsebreaker, and he who trains the dog, seek this end. But 
the education and the teaching of youth aim at something. In this 
then is the value of the education and the teaching. And if thh is 
well, thou wilt not seek anything else. Wilt thou not cease to value 
many other things too? Then thou wilt be neither free, nor sufficient 
for thy own happiness, nor without passion. For of necessity thou 
must be envious, jealous and suspicious of those who can take away 
those things, and plot against those who have that which is valued 
by tiiee. Of necessity a man must be altogether in a state of pertur- 
bation who wants any of these things; and beades, he must often 
find fault with the gods. But to reverence and honor thy own mind 
will make thee content with tiiyseU and in harmony with society 
and in agreement with the gods, that is, praising all that they give 
and have ordered. 


385 



Marcus Aurelius 

<•$ Above, below, all around are the movements of the elements. 
But Ae motion of virtue is in none of these; it is something more 
divine; and, advancing by a way hardly observed, it goes happily 
on its road. 

How strangely men act! They will not praise those who are liv- 
ing at the same time and living with themselves; but to be them- 
selves praised by posterity, by those whom they have never seen or 
never will see, this they set much value on. But this is very much 
the same as if thou shouldst be grieved because those who have 
lived before thee did not praise thee. 

If a thing is difficult to be accomplished by thyself, do not think 
that it is impossible for man; but if anything is possible for man and 
conformable to his nature, think that this can be attained by thy- 
self too. 

In the gymnastic exercises suppose that a man has tom thee 
with his muls, and by dashing against thy head has inflicted a wound. 
Well, we neither show any signs of vexation, nor are we offended, 
nor do we suspect him afterward as a treacherous fellow; and yet 
we are on our guard against him, not, however, as an enemy, nor 
yet With suspicion, but we quietly get out of his way. Something 
like this let thy behavior be in all the other parts of life; let us over- 
look many things in those who are like antagonists in the gymna- 
siiun. For it is in our power, as I said, to get out of the way, and to 
have no suspicion nor hatred. 

If any man is able to convince me and show me that I do not 
flunk or act right, I will gladly change; for I seek the truth by which 
no man was ever injured. But he is injiued who abides in his error 
and ignorance. 

do my du^: other things trouble me not; for they are either 
fljings without life, or things without reason, or things that have ram- 
tded and know not the way. 

As to the animals which have no reason, and generally all things 
and objects, do thou, since thou hast reason and fliey have none, 
make use tff them with a generous and liberal spirit. But toward hu- 
man bdngs, as they have reason, behave in a social sfMt. And on 
aH occasimis call on the gods, and do not perplex thyself about the 
kmgfli Ol flme in which thou shalt do this; for even three hours so 
sport ate suffident 

Alexandor the Great and his grotnn were brought by death to 
flie same state; for either they were recdved among the same som- 

386 



Meditations 

nal principles of the universe, or they were alike <hspersed among 
the atoms. 

Consider how many things in the same indivisible time take 
place in each of us, things which concern the body and things which 
concern the soul; and so thou wilt not wonder if any more things, 
or rather all things which come into existence in that which is die 
one and all, which we call Cosmos, exist in it at the same time. 

If any man should propose to thee the question how the name 
Antoninus is written, wouldst thou with a straining of the voice utter 
each letter? If he grows angry, wilt thou be angry too? Wilt thou not 
go on with composure and number every letter? Just so then in this 
life, also remember that every duty is made up of certain parts. 
These it is thy duty to observe and without being disturbed or show- 
ing anger toward those who are angry with thee to go on thy way 
and finish that which is set before thee. 

How cruel it is not to allow men to strive after the things which 
appear to them to be suitable to their nature and profitable! And 
yet in a manner thou dost not allow them to do this, when thou art 
vexed because they do wrong. For they are certainly moved toward 
things because they suppose them to be suitable to their nature and 
profitable to them. But it is not so. Teach them then, and show them 
without being angry. 

Death is a cessation of the impressions through the senses, and 
of the pulling of the strings which move the appetites, and of the 
discursive movements of the thoughts, and of the service to the flesh. 

It is a shame for the soul to be first to give way in this life, when 
thy body does not give way. 

Take care that thou art not made into a Caesar, that thou art 
not dyed with this dye; for such things happen. Keep thyself then 
simple, good, pure, serious, free from affectation, a friend of justice, 
a worshiper of the gods, kind, affectionate, strenuous in all propw 
acts. Strive to continue to be such as philosophy wished to make 
thee. Reverence die gods, and help men. Short is life. There is only 
oim fruit of this terrene life, a pious disporidon and social acts. Do 
everything as a disciple of Antoninus. Remember his constancy in 
every act which was conformable to reason, and bis evenness in all 
things, and his piety, and the serenity of bis countenance, and his 
sweetness, and his disregard of empty fame, and his efforts to unc^- 
stand diings; and how he would never let anything pass , without- 
having, fir^ most carefully ex amine d it and dearly understood it; and 

3S7 



Marcus Aurelius 

how he b(»re with those who blamed him unjustly without Uaming 
them in return; how he did nothing in a hurry; and how he listened 
not to calumnies, and how exact an examiner of manners and ac- 
tioos he was; and not given to reproach people, nor timid, nor sus- 
picious, nor a sophist; and with how little he was satisfied, such as 
lodging, bed, dress, food, servants; and how laborious and patient; 
and how he was able on account of his sparing diet to hold out to 
the evening, not even requiring to relieve hhii%lf by any evacua- 
tions except at the usual hour; and his firmness and uniformity in 
his friendships; and how he tolerated freedom of speech in those 
who opposed his opinions; and the pleasure that he had when any 
man showed him anything better; and how religious he was without 
superstition. Imitate all this that thou mayest have as good a con- 
science when thy last hour comes as he had 

Return to thy sober senses and call thyself back; and when thou 
hast roused thyself from sleep and hast perceived that they were 
only dreams which troubled thee, now in thy waking hours look at 
these, the things about thee, as thou didst look at those, the dreams. 

I consist of a little body and a soul. Now to this little body all 
things are indifferent, for it is not able to perceive differences. But 
to the understanding those things only are indifferent which are not 
the works of its own activity. But whatever things are the works of 
its own activity, all these are in its power. And of these, however, 
only those which are done with reference to the present; for as to 
the future and the past activities of the mind, even these are for 
the present indifferent. 

Neither the labor which the hand does nor that of the foot is 
contrary to nature, so long as the foot does the foot’s work and 
the hand the hand’s. So then neither to a man as a man is his labor 
contrary to nature, so long as it does the things of a man. But 
if the labor is not contrary to his nature, neither is it an evil to 
him. ... 

<«^Asia and Europe are comers of the universe; all the sea, a 
drop in the universe; Athos, a little clod of the universe; all the pres- 
ent time is a point in eternity. All things are little, changeable, per- 
ishable. AU things come from thence, from that universal ruling 
power either directly proceeding or by way of sequence. And ac- 
cordiogpiy the lion’s gaping jaws, and that which is poisonous, and 
evmy harmful thing, as a thorn, as mud, are after-prodw^ of the 
grand and beautfful. Do not then ima^ne that they are another 

388 



Meditations 

kind from that which thou dost venerate, but £rom a just oj^on 
of the source of all. 

He who has seen present things has seen all, both everything 
which has taken place from all eternity and everything which will 
be for time without end; for all things are of one kin and of one 
form. 

<«§ Frequently consider the connection of all things in the uni- 
verse and their relation to one another. For in a manner all things 
are implicated with one another, and all in this way are friendly to 
one another; for one thing comes in order after another, and this is 
by virtue of the active movement and mutual conspiration and the 
unity of the substance. 

Adapt thyself to the things with which thy lot has been cast, 
and the men among whom thou hast received thy portion; love 
them, but do it sincerely. 

Every instrument, tool, vessel, if it does that for which it has 
been made, is well, and yet he who made it is not there. But in the 
things which are held together by nature there is within and there 
abides in them the power which made them; wherefore the more is 
it fit to reverence this power, and to think that, if thou dost live and 
act according to its will, everything in thee is in conformity to intel- 
ligence. And thus also in the universe the things which belong to it 
are in conformity to intelligence. 

Whatever of the things which are not within thy power thou 
shall suppose to be good for thee or evil, it must of necessity be that, 
if such a bad thing befall thee or the loss of such a good thing, thou 
wilt blame the gods and hate men too, those who are the cause of 
the misfortune or the loss, or those who are suspected of being likely 
to be the cause; and indeed we do much injustice, because we make 
a difference between these things, because we do not regard these 
things as indifferent. But if we judge only those things whidr are in 
our power to be good or bad, there remains no reason either for find- 
ing fault with God or standing in a hostile attitude to man. 

We are all working together to one end, some with knowl- 
edge and (tesign, and others without knowing what they do; as men 
also when they are asleep, of whom it is Heraclitus, I think, who 
says that they ate laborers and co-operators in ttm things which take 
place in the universe. But men co-operate after different fashions: 
and evmi those co-operate abundantly, who find fault with udiat 
happens and those who try to oppose it and to hindm: it; fm the uni- 

389 ^ 



Marcus Aurelius 

verse has need even of such men as these. It remains dien for thee 
to understand among what kind of workmen thou placest thyself; 
for he vdio rules all things will certainly make a right use of thee, 
and he will receive tiiee among some part of the co-operators and 
of those whose labors conduce to one end. . . . 

If the gods have determined about me and about the things 
which must happen to me, they have determined well, for it is not 
easy even to imagine a deity without forethdu^t; and as to doing 
me harm, why should they have any desire toward that? For what 
advantage would result to them from this or to the whole, which is 
the special object of their providence? But if they have not deter- 
mined about me individually, they have certainly determined about 
the whole at least, and the things which happen by way of se- 
quence in this general arrangement I ought to accept with pleasure 
and to be content with them. But if they determine about nothing 
— ^which it is wicked to believe; or if we do believe it, let us neither 
sacrifice nor pray nor swear by them, nor do anything else which 
we do as if the gods were present and lived with us; but if, however, 
the gods determine about none of the things which concern os, I am 
able to determine about myself, and 1 can inquire about that which 
is useful; and that is useful to every man which is conformable to 
his own constitution and nature. But my nature is rational and so- 
cial; and my city and country, so far as I am Antoninus,* is Rome, 
but so far as I am a man, it is the world. The things then which are 
useful to these cities are alone useful to me. 

Whatever happens to every man, this is for the interest of 
the universal; this might be sufficient. But further thou wilt observe 
this also as a general truth, if thou dost observe, that whatever is 
profitable to any man is profitable also to other men. But let the word 
“profit^le” be taken here in the common sense as said of things of 
the middle kind [nmther good nor bad]. 

* 0 ^ As it happens to thee in the amphitheater and such places, 
that ^ continue sig^t of the same things and the uniformity make 
die spectade wearisome, so it is in the whole of life; for all filings 
above, below, are the same and from the same. How long fiien? 

* 0 ^ Tffink continually that all kinds of men of all l^ds of por> 
sifits and ctf all nations are dead, so fiiat thy thoughts come down 
even to Riilistion and Phoebus and Origanion. Now turn thy 
thoi^ts to fim ofiier kinds of men. To that place then we must re- 
* Marcus Aurelias' adopted name * 

390 



Meditations 

move where there are so many great orators and so many notte 
philosof^rs: Heraclitus, Pythagoras, Socrates; so many heroes of 
former days, and so many generals after them, and tyrants; besides 
these, Eudoxus, Hipparchus, Archimedes, and other men of acute 
natural talents, great minds, lovers of labor, versatile, confident, 
mockers even of the perishable and ephemeral life of man, as Menip- 
pus and such as are like him. As to all these, consider that they have 
long been in the dust. What harm then is this to them, and what 
to ^ose whose names are altogether unknown? One thing here is 
worth a great deal, to pass thy life in truth and justice, with a benev- 
olent disposition even to liars and unjust men. 

When thou wishest to delight thyself, think of the virtues of 
those who live with thee; for instance, the activity of one and the 
modesty of another and the liberality of a third and some other good 
quality of a fourth. For nothing delights so much as the examples of 
^e virtues when they are exhibited in the morals of those who Uve 
with us and present themselves in abundance, as far as is possiUe. 
Wherefore we must keep them before us. 

Thou art not dissatisfied, I suppose, because thou weighest 
only so many pounds and not three hundred. Be not dissatisfied 
then that thou must live only so many years and not more; for as 
thou art satisfied with the amount of substance which has been as- 
signed to thee, so be content with the time. 

Let us try to persuade them [men]. But act even against thdr 
will, when the principles of justice lead that way. If, however, any 
man by using force stands in thy way, betake thyself to contentment 
and tranquillity, and at the same time employ the hindTan(% toward 
the exercise of some other virtue; and remember that thy attempt 
was with a reservation, that thou didst not desire to do impossi- 
bilities. What then didst thou desire? Some such effort as this. But 
thou attdnest thy object, if the things to which thou wast moved are 
not accmnplished. . . . 

That which is not good for the swarm, neither is it good for 
the bee. 

if sailors abused the helmsman or the sick the doctor, would 
they listm to anybody else; or how could the helmsman secure the 
safety of those in the ship or the doctor the healffi of diose whom he 
attends? 

<«§How many together with whom 1 came into the world are 
alrea^ ^ne out of it! 


391 



Marcus Aurelius 

To the jaundiced honey tastes bitter, and to those bitten by 
mad dogs water causes fear; and to little children the ball is a fine 
filing. Why then am 1 angry? Dost thou think that a false opinion 
has less power than the bile in the jaundiced or the poison in him 
who is bitten by a mad dog? 

No man will hinder thee from living according to the reason 
of thy own nature; nothing will happen to thee contrary to the rea- 
son of the universal nature. * '* 

««$What kind of people are those whom men wish to please, 
and for what objects, and by what kind of acts? How soon will time 
cover all things, and how many it has covered already! 


VII 

W HAT IS BADNESS? It is that which thou hast often seen. And 
on the occasion of everything which happens, keep this in 
mind, that it is that which thou hast often seen. Everywhere up and 
down thou wilt find the same things, with which the old histories 
are filled, those of the past ages and those of our own day; with 
which cities and houses are Med now. There is nothing new; all 
things are both familiar and short-lived. 

How can our principles become dead, unless the impressions 
[thou^ts] which correspond to them are extinguished? But it is in 
thy power continuously to fan these thoughts into a flame. I can 
have that opinion about anything, which I ought to have. If I can, 
why am I disturbed? The things which are external to my mind have 
no relation at all to my mind. Let this be the state of thy affects, and 
thou standest erect. To recover thy life is in thy power. Look at 
things again as thou didst use to look at them; for in this consist the 
recovery of thy life. 

The idle business of show, plays on the stage, .flocks of sheep, 
herds, exercises with spears, a bone cast to little dogs, a bit of bread 
into fish ponds, laborings of ants and burden-carrying, runnings 
about of frightened little mice, puppets pulled by strings — all are 
alike. It is thy duty then in the midst of such things to show good 
humor and not a proud air; to understand, however, that every man 
is worth just so much as the things are worth about which he busies 
himself. . . . 

<•$ Is my understanding sufficient for this or not? I& it is suffi- 

392 



Meditations 

deat, I use it for the work as an instrument ^ven by the universal 
nature. But if it is not sufGident, then either I retire from the work 
and ^ve way to him who is d}le to do it better, unless there be some 
reason why I ou^t not to do so; or I do it as well as I can, taking 
to help me the man who, with the aid of my ruling principle, can 
do what is now fit and useful for the general good. For whatsoever 
either by myself or with another I can do, ought to be directed to 
this only, to that which is useful and well-suited to society. 

<«^How many after being celebrated by fame have been given 
up to oblivion; and how many who have celebrated the fame of 
others have long been dead! 

Be not ashamed to be helped; for it is thy business to do thy 
duty like a soldier in the assault on a town. How then is it possible, 
if being lame, thou canst not mount up on the battlements alone, 
but with the help of another? 

Let not the future things disturb thee, for thou wilt come to 
them, if it shall be necessary, having with thee the same reason which 
now thou usest for present things. 

All things are implicated with one another, and the bond is 
holy; and there is hardly anything unconnected with any other thing. 
For things have been co-ordinated, and they combine to form the 
same universe [order]. For there is one universe made up of all 
things, and one god who pervades all things, and one substance, 
and one law, one common reason in all intelligent animals and one 
truth; if indeed there is also one perfection for all animals which 
are of the same stock and participate in the same reason. 

Everything material soon disappears in the substance of the 
whole; and everting formal [causal] is very soon taken back into 
the universal reason; and the memory of everydiing is very soon 
overwhelmed in time. . . . 

Just as it is with the members in these bodies which are united 
in one, so it is with rational beings which exist separately, for they 
have been constituted for one co-operation. And the perception of 
this will be more apparent to thee if thou often sayest to thyself that 
I am a member of fte system of raticmal beings. But if diou sayest 
that thou art a part, thou dost not yet love men from thy heart; be- 
neficence does not yet delight thee for its own sake; diou still doest 
it barely as a thing of propriety, and not yet as ddng good to thysdf . 

* 0 ^ Let there fall externally what will on the parts which can fed 
the effects of thk fall. For those parts vdiich have fdt wiff complain, 

393 



Mwtcus Aurelius 

if tbey choose. But I, unless 1 think that what has happened is an 
evil, am not injured. And it is in my power not to think so. 

Whatever anyone does or says, I must be good; just as if the 
gcdd, or the emerald or the purple were always saying this. Whatever 
anyone does or says, I must be emerald and keep my color. 

• 0 % The ruling faculty does not disturb itself; I mean, does not 
frighten itsdf or cause itself pain. But if anyone else can frighten or 
pain it, let him do so. For the faculty itself will not by its own opinion 
txim itself into such ways. Let the body itself ‘take care, if it can, 
that it suffer nothing, and let it speak if it suffers. But the soul itself, 
that which is subject to fear, to pain, which has completely the power 
of forming an opinion about these things, will suffer nothing, for it 
will never deviate into such a judgment. The leading principle in it- 
self wants nothing, unless it makes a want for itself; and therefore it 
is both free from perturbation and unimpeded, if it does not disturb 
and impede itself. 

Eudaemonia [happiness] is a good demon, or a good thing. 
What then art thou doing here, O Imagination? Go away, I entreat 
thee by the gods, as thou didst come, for I want thee not. But thou 
art come according to thy old fashion. I am not angry with thee; 
only go away. 

* 0 ^ Is any man afraid of change? Why, what can take place with- 
out change? What then is more pleasing or more suitable to the uni- 
versal nature? And canst thou take a bath unless the wood under- 
goes a change? And canst thou be nourished, unless the food under- 
goes a change? And can anything else that is useful be accomplished 
without change? Dost thou not see then that for thyself also to change 
is just the same, and equally necessary for the universal nature? 

Through the universal substance as through a furious torrent 
all bodies are carried, being by their nature united with and co- 
oporating with the whole, as the parts of our body with one anodier. 
How many a Chrysippus, how many a Socrates, how many an 
Epictetus has time already swallowed up? And let the same thought 
occur to thee wiffi reference to evny man and thing. 

One thing only troubles me, lest I should do something whidi 
die constitution of man does not allow, or in the way which it does 
not allow, or what it does not allow now. . . . 

t 0 ^ It is peculiar to man to love even those who do wrong. And 
this happens, if, when they do wrong, it occurs to thee that they are 
Idmanen, and diat they ^ wrong through ignorance and uninten- 

394 



Meditations 

tionally, and that soon both of you will die; and above aU, that the 
wrongdoer has done thee no harm, for he has not made thy ruling 
faculty worse than it was before. 

The universal nature out of the universal substance, as if it 
were wax, now molds a horse, and when it has broken this up, it uses 
the material for a tree, then for a man, then for something else; and 
each of these diings subsists for a very short time. But it is no hard* 
ship for the vessel to be broken up, just as there was none in its bemg 
fastened together. 

A scowling look is altogether unnatural; when it is often as- 
sumed, the result is that all comeliness dies away, and at last is so 
completely extinguished that it cannot be again lifted op at all. Try 
to conclu^ from this very fact that it is contrary to reason. For if 
even the perception of doing wrong shall depart, what reason is there 
for living any longer? 

Nature which governs the whole will soon change all things 
thou seest, and out of their substance will make other things, and 
again other things from the substance of them, in order that the world 
may be ever new. 

MS^When a man has done thee any wrong, immediately con- 
sider with what opinion about good or evil he has done wrong. For 
when thou hast seen this, thou wilt pity him, and wilt neither wonder 
nor be angry. For either thou thyself thinkest the same thing to be 
good that he does, or another thing of the same kind. It is thy duty 
then to pardon him. But if thou dost not think such things to be good 
or evfl, thou wilt more readily be well disposed to him who is in 
error. 

Think not so much of what thou hast not as of what thou hast; 
but, of the things which thou hast, select the best, and then reflect 
how eagerly they would have been sought if thou hadst them not. At 
the same time, however, take care that thou dost not, through being 
so fdeased with them, accustom thyself to overvalue them, so as to be 
disturbed if ever thou shouldst not have them. 

Retire into thyself. The rational principle which rules has this 
nature, that it is omtent with itself ^en it does what is just, and so 
secures tranquilli^. 

Wipe out the imagination. Stop the pulling of the strings. Cmi- 
fiae thys^ to tiie present. Understand w^ what happens either to 
thee or to another. IHvi^ and distribute every object into the causal 
[fcmnal] and the material. Hunk dt thy last hour. Let the wrong 

395 



Marcus Aurelius 

wfaidi is done a man stay there where the wrong was done. . . . 

About pain: the pain which is intolerable carries us off; but 
that which lasts a long time is tolerable; and the mind maintains its 
own tranquillity by retiring into itself, and the ruling faculty is not 
made worse. But the parts which are harmed by pain, let them, if 
diey can, give their opinion about it. 

About fame: look at the minds [of those who seek -fame], 
observe what they are, and what kind of things they avoid, and what 
kind of things they pursue. And consider that^-as the heaps of sand 
piled on one another hide the former sands, so in life the events 
which go before are soon covered by those which come after. 

From Plato: the man who has an elevated mind and takes a 
view of all time and of all substance, dost thou suppose it possible 
for him to think that human life is anything great? It is not possible, 
he said. Such a man then will think that death also is no e-vil. Cer- 
tainly not. . . . 

Look around at the courses of the stars, as if thou wert going 
along with them; and constantly consider the changes of the elements 
into one another; for such thoughts purge away the filth of the earthly 
life. 

This is a fine saying of Plato: that he who is discoursing about 
men should look also at earthly things as if he -viewed them from 
some higher place; should look at them in their assemblies, armies, 
agricultural labors, marriages, treaties, births, deaths, noise of the 
courts of justice, desert places, various nations of barbarians, feasts, 
lamentations, markets, a mixture of all things and an orderly combi- 
nation of contraries. 

Consider the past — such great changes of political suprema- 
cies. Thou mayest foresee also the things which will be. For they will 
certainly be of like form, and it is not possible that they should de- 
viate from the order of the things which take place now; accordingly, 
to have contemplated human life for forty years is the same as to 
have contemplated it iot ten thousand years. For^what more wilt 
thou see? 

That which has grown from the earth returns to the earth, but 
that which has sprung from heavenly seed, back to the heavenly 
realms returns. 

This is eith^ a dissolution of the mutual involution of the atoms, 
or a dmilar dispersion of the unsentient elements. 

With food and drinks and cunning magic arts 

396 



Meditations 

Turning the charmeVs course to 'scape from death; 

The breeze which heaven has sent 

We must endure, and toil without complaining. 

Another may be more expert in casting his opponent; but he 
is not more social, nor more modest, nor better disciplined to meet 
all that happens, nor more considerate with respect to the faults of 
his neiglhbors. 

Where any work can be done conformably to the reason which 
is common to gods and men, there we have nothing to fear; for 
where we are able to get profit by means of the activity which is suc- 
cessful and proceeds according to our constitution, there no harm is 
to be suspected. 

Everywhere and at all times it is in thy power piously to ac- 
quiesce in diy present condition, and to behave justly to those who 
are about thee, and to exert thy skill upon thy present thoughts, that 
nothing shall steal into them without being well examined. 

£)o not look around thee to discover other men's ruling prin- 
ciples, but look straight to this, to what nature leads thee, both the 
universal nature through the things which happen to thee, and thy 
own nature through the acts which must be done by thee. But every 
being ought to do that which is according to its constitution; and all 
other things have been constituted for the sake of rational beings, 
just as among irrational things the inferior for the sake of the supe- 
rior, but the rational for the sake of one another. 

The prime principle then in man’s constitution is the social. And 
the second is not to yield to the persuasions of the body, for it is the 
peculiar office of the rational and intelligent motion to circumscribe 
itself, and never to be overpowered either by the motion of the senses 
or of the appetites, for both are animal; but the intelligent motion 
claims superiority and does not permit itself to be overpowered by 
the offiers. And with good reason, for it is formed by nature to use 
all of them. The third thing in the rational constitution is freedom 
from error and from deception. Let then the ruling principle holding 
fast to these things go straight on, and it has what is its own. . . . 

In everything which happens, keep before thy eyes those to 
whom the same things happened, and how ffiey were vexed, and 
treated them as strange things, and found fault with them; and now 
whem are ffiey? Nowhere. Why then dost ffiou too choose to act in 
the same way? And why dost thou not leave these agitations whkffi 
are foreign to nature, to those who cause them and those who ate 

397 



Marcus Aurelius 

moved by them? And why art thou not altogether intent upon die 
rig^t way of maldng use of the things which happen to thee? For 
then thou wilt use them well, and they will be a material for thee [to 
work on]. Only attend to thyself and resolve to be a good man in 
every act udiich thou doest; and remember. 

Look within. Within is the fountain of good, and it will ever 
bubble up, if thou wilt ever dig. 

The body ought to be compact and to show no irregularity 
either in motion or attitude. For what the mind shows in the face by 
maintaining in it the expression of intelligence and proprie^, that 
oug^t to be required also in the whole body. But all diese things 
should be observed without affectation. 

<«§ The art of life is more like the wresder’s art than the dancer’s, 
in respect to this, that it should stand ready and firm to meet onsets 
which are sudden and unexpected. 

««^Constandy obs^e who those are whose approbation thou 
wishest to have and what ruling principles they possess. For then 
thou wilt neither blame those who offend involuntarily, nor wilt thou 
want their approbation, if thou lookest to the sources of their opin- 
ions and appetites. 

Every soul, the philosopher says, is involuntarily deprived of 
truth; consequendy in the same way it is deprived of justice and tem- 
perance and benevolence and everything of the kind. It is most nec- 
essary to bear this constantly in mind, for thus thou wilt be more 
gentle toward all. 

ve^ In every pain let this thoug]it be present, that there is no dis- 
honor in it, nor does it make the governing intelligence worse, for it 
does not damage the intelligence either so far as the intelligence is 
rational or so far as it is social. Indeed in the case of most pains let 
this remark of Epicurus aid thee: that pain is neither intolerable nor 
everlasting, if thou bearest in mind that it has its limits and if thou 
addest nothing to it in imag^tion: and remember this» too, that we 
do not perceive that many things which are disagreeable to us are 
the same as pain, such as excessive drowsiness and being scorched 
by heat and having no appetite. When then thou art discontented 
about any of these things, say to thyself that thou art yielding to pain. 

<«$Tidre care not to feel toward the inhuman, as they feel to- 
ward men. 

<«f;How do we know if Telauges was not superior in diaracter 
to Socrates? For it is not enougii that Socrates died a more noble 



Meditations 

death, and disputed more sldllfdOy with the Sophists, and passed die 
ni^t in the cold with more endurance, and that, when he was bid 
to arrest Leon of Salamis, he considered it more noble to rdfuse, and 
that he walked in a swaggering way in the streets — though as to this 
fact one may have great doubts if it was true. But we ought to inquire 
what kind of soul it was that Socrates possessed and if he was able 
to be content with being just toward men and pious toward the gods, 
neither idly vexed on account of men’s villainy, nor making himself 
a slave to any man’s ignorance, nor receiving as strange anything 
that fell to his share out of the universal; nor enduring it as intoler- 
able, nor allowing his understanding to sympathize with the affects 
of the miserable flesh. . . . 

It is in thy power to live free from all compulsion in the great- 
est tranquillity of mind, even if all the world cry out against thee as 
much as they choose, and even if wild beasts tear into pieces the 
members of this kneaded matter which has grown around thee. For 
what hinders the mind in the midst of all this from maintaining itself 
in tranquillity, and in a just judgment of all surrounding things, and 
in a ready use of the objects which are presented to it, so that the 
judgment may say to the thing which falls under its observation: 
this thou art in substance [reedity], though in men’s opinion thou 
mayest appear to be of a different kind. And the use shall say to that 
which fails under the hand: thou art the thing that 1 was seeking, for 
to me that which presents itself is always a material for virtue, both 
rational and political, and, in a word, for the exercise of art, which 
belongs to man or God. For everything which happens has a rela- 
tionship either to God or man, and is neither new nor difficult to 
handle, but usual and apt matter to work on. 

The perfection of moral character consists in this: in passing 
every day as the last, and in being neither violentiy excited, nor tor- 
pid, nor playing the hypocrite. 

^ The gods who are immortal are not vexed because during so 
long a time they must tolerate continually men such as th^ are and 
so many of thmn bad; mid besides this, they also take care of them 
in all ways. But thou, who art destined to end so soon, art thou 
wearied of enduring ffie bad, and tiiis too when tiiou art one of 
thmn? 

It is a ridiculous tiling for a man not to fly frtnn his own bad- 
ness, which is indeed possible, but to §y from other men’s badness, 
whidi is impossible. ... 


399 



Marcus Aurelius 

The nature of the All moved to make the universe. But now 
either everything that takes place comes by way of consequence or 
continuity; or even the chief things toward which the ruling power 
of the universe directs its own movement are governed by no rational 
principle. If this is remembered, it will make thee more tranquil in 
many things. 


vin 

T his reflection also tends to the removal of the desire of empty 
fame: that it is no longer in thy power to have lived the whole of 
thy life, or at least thy life from thy youth upward, like a philosopher; 
but both to many oAers and to thyself it is plain that thou art far 
from philosophy. Thou hast fallen into disorder then, so that it is no 
longer easy for thee to get the reputation of a philosopher; and thy 
plan of life also opposes it. If then thou hast truly seen where the 
matter lies, throw away the thought how thou shalt seem to others, 
and be content if thou shalt live the rest of thy life in such a way as 
thy nature wills. Observe then what it wills, and let nothing else dis- 
tract thee; for thou hast had experience of many wanderings without 
having found happiness anywhere, not in syllogisms, nor in wealth, 
nor in reputation, nor in enjoyment, nor anywhere. Where is it then? 
In doing what man’s nature requires. How then shall a man do this? 
If he has principles from which come his affects and his acts. What 
principles? Those which relate to good and bad: the belief that there 
is nothing good for man which does not make him just, temperate, 
manly, free; and that there is nothing bad which does not do the 
contrary to what has been mentioned. 

On the occasion of every act ask thyself. How is this with 
respect to me? Shall I repent of it? A little time and I am dead, and 
all is gone. What more do I seek if what I am now doing is the work 
of an intelligent living being, and a social being and one who is un- 
der the same law with God? ... 

Consider that men will do the same things nevertheless, even 
fluragh thou shouldst burst. 

This is the chief thing: be not perturbed, for all things are ac- 
cording to the nature of the universal; and in a little time thou wilt 
be nobody and nowhere, like Hadrian and Augustus. In the next 
{dace, having fixed thy eyes steadily on thy business, look at it; and 
at the same time remembering that it is thy duty to be a good man, 

400 



Meditations 

and wfaat man’s nature demands, do that without turning aside; and 
speak as it seems to thee most just; only let it be with a good disposi- 
tion and with modesty and wi^out hypocrisy. . . . 

<«§ Every nature is contented with itself when it goes on its way 
well; and a rational nature goes on its way well, when in its thoughts 
it assents to nothing false or uncertain, and when it directs its move- 
ments to social acts only, and when it confines its desires and aver- 
sions to the things which are in its power, and when it is satisfied with 
everything that is assigned to it by the common nature. For of this 
common nature every particular nature is a part, as the nature of 
the leaf is a part of Ae nature of the plant; except that in the plant 
the nature of the leaf is part of a nature which has not perception or 
reason, and is subject to be impeded; but the nature of man is part 
of a nature which is not subject to impediments, and is intelligent 
and just, since it gives to everything in equal portions and according 
to its worth, times, substance, cause, form, activity and incident. But 
examine, not to discover that any one thing compared with any other 
single thing is equal in all respects, but by taking all the parts together 
of one thing and comparing them with all the parts together of an- 
other. 

Thou hast not leisure or ability to read. But thou hast leisure 
or ability to check arrogance; thou hast leisure to be superior to 
pleasure and pain; thou hast leisure to be superior to love of fame, 
and not to be vexed at stupid and ungrateful people, nay even to 
care for them. . . . 

When thou risest from thy sleep with reluctance, remember 
that it is according to thy constitution and according to human nature 
to perform social acts, but sleeping is common also to irrational ani- 
mals. But that which is according to each individual’s nature is also 
more peculiarly its own, and more suitable to its nature, and indeed, 
also more agreeable. 

Constantly and, if it be possible, on the occasion of every im- 
pression on the soul, apply to it the principles of Physics, of Ethics, 
and of Dialectics. 

Whatever man thou meetest with, immediately say to thysdf: 
What opinions has this man about good and bad? For if with respect 
to pleasure and pain and the causes of each, and with respect to 
fame and ignominy, death and life, he has sudh and such opinions, 
it will seem nothing strange to me if he does such and such things; 
and I shaU bear in mind that he is compdled to do so. 


40t 



Marcus Aurelius 

Remember that as it is a shame to be surprised if the fig tree 
produces figs, so it is to be surprised if the woiid produces such and 
such thin^ of which it is productive; and for the physician and the 
helmsman it is a shame to be surprised if a man has a fever or if the 
wind b unfavorable. 

Remember that to change thy opinion and to follow him who 
corrects thy error is as consistent with freedom as it is to persist in 
fiiy error. For it is thy own, the activity which is exerted according 
to thy own movement and judgment, and inlieed according to thy 
own understanding too. 

«•§ If a thing is in thy own power, why dost thou do it? But if it is 
in the power of another, whom dost thou blame— the atoms [chance] 
or the gods? Both are foolish. Thou must blame nobody. For if thou 
canst, correct that which is the cause; but if thou canst not do this, 
correct at least the thing itself; but if thou canst not do even this, of 
what use is it to thee to find fault? For nothing should be done with- 
out a purpose. 

That which has died falls not out of the universe. If it stays 
here, it also changes here and is dissolved into its proper parts, which 
are elements of the universe and of thyself. And these too must 
change, and they murmur not. 

Everything exists for some end, even a horse, a vine. Why 
dost thou wonder? Even the sun will say, I am for some purpose, and 
the rest of the gods will say the same. For what purpose then art 
thou? To enjoy pleasure? See if common sense allows this. 

Nature has had regard in everything no less to the end than to 
the beginning and die continuance, just like the man who throws up 
a ball. What good is it then for the ball to be thrown up, or harm for 
it to come down, or even to have fallen? And what good is it to the 
bubble while it holds together, or what harm when it is burst? The 
same may be said of a light also. 

Turn it [the body] inside out, and see what kind of thing it 
b; and u^en it has grown dd, what kind of diing4t becomes, and 
when it is dbeased. 

Short-lived are both the praiser and the praised, and the remem- 
berer and the remembered, and all thb in a nook of thb part of the 
wodd; and not even here do all agree, no, not anyone with himsdf; 
and the whole eardi too b a pdnt 

Attend to the matter which b before thee, whether it b an 
opinion an act or a word. 

402 



Meditations 

Thou sufferest this justly, for thou choosest rather to become good 
tomorrow than to be good today. 

Am I doing anything? I do it with reference to the good of 
mankind. Does anything happen to me? I receive it and refer it to 
the gods and the source of ^ things, from which all that happens is 
derived. 

Such as bathing appears to thee— oil, sweat, dirt, filthy water, 
all things disgusting — so is every part of life and everything. 

<«^Lucilla saw Verus die, and then Lucilla died. Secunda saw 
Maximus die, and then Secunda died. Epitynchanus saw Diotimus 
die, and then Epitynchanus died. Antoninus saw Faustina die, and 
then Antoninus died. Such is everything. Celer saw Hadrian die, and 
then Celer died. And those sharp-witted men, either seers or men in- 
flated with pride, where are they? for instance, the shai^-witted 
men, Charak and Demetrius the Platonist and Eudaemon, and any- 
one else like them. All ephemeral, dead long ago. Some indeed have 
not been remembered even for a short time, and others have become 
the heroes of fables, and again others have disappeared even from 
fables. Remember this, then: that this little compound, thyself, must 
either be dissolved, or thy poor breath must be extinguished or be 
removed and placed elsewhere. 

It is satisfaction to a man to do the proper works of a man. 
Now it is a proper work of a man to be benevolent to his own kind, to 
despise the movements of the senses, to form a just judgment of 
plausible appearances and to take a survey of the nature of the uni- 
verse and of the things which happen in it. 

There are three rdations between thee and other things: the 
one to the body which surrotmds thee; the second to the divine cause 
from which all things come to all; and the third to those who live 
with thee. 

«•§ Pain is either an evil to the body — ^then let the body say wdiat 
it thinks of it — or to the soul; but it is in the power of the soul to main- 
tain its own sereni^ and tranquillity, and not to think that pain is 
an evfl. For every judgment and UKivement and desire and aversion 
is within,, and no evil ascends so high. 

«•$ Wipe out thy ima^afions by often saying to thyself: now it 
is in my power to let no badhiess be in this soul, nor desire, nor any 
perturbation at all; but looking at all things I see what is their nature, 
and I use each according to its value. Remember this power whidb 
thou hast from nature. 


403 



Marcia Aurelius 

Speak both in the senate and to every man, whoever he may 
be, appropriately, not with any afEectation; use plain discourse. 

Augustus* court — wife, daughter, descendants, ancestors, sis- 
ter, friend Agrippa, kinsmen, intimates, friends Areius and Maece- 
nas, physicians and sacrificing priests — the whole court is dead. Then 
turn to the rest, not considering the death of a single man, but of a 
whole race, as that of Pompeii; and that which is inscribed on tombs 
— “the last of his race.” Then consider what trouble those before 
them have had that they might leave a sucdbSsor; and then that, of 
necessity, someone must be the last. Again here consider the death 
of a whole race. 

It is thy duty to order thy life well in every single act; and if 
every act does its duty, as far as is possible, be content; and no one 
is able to hinder thee so that each act shall not do its duty — ^but 
something external will stand in the way. Nothing will stand in the 
way of thy acting justly and soberly and considerately, but perhaps 
some other active power will then be hindered. WeU, but by acqui- 
escing in the hindrance and by being content to transfer thy efforts 
to that which is allowed, another opportunity of action is immedi- 
ately put before thee in place of that which was hindered, and one 
which will adapt itself to this ordering of which we are speaking. 

Receive wealth or prosperity without arrogance; and be ready 
to let it go. 

<«§ If thou didst ever see a hand cut off, or a foot, or a head lying 
anywhere apart from the rest of the body, such does a man make 
himself, as far as he can, who is not content with what happens, and 
separates himself from others, or does anything unsocial. Suppose 
that thou hast detached thyself from the natural unity — ^for thou wast 
made by nature a part, but now thou hast cut thyself off — ^yet here 
there is this beautiful provision, that it is in thy power again to unite 
thyself. God has allowed this to no other part, after it has been sepa- 
rated and cut asunder, to come together again. But consider the kind- 
ness by which he has distinguished man, for he has put it in his 
power not to be separated at all from the universal; and when he 
has bera separated, he has allowed him to return and to be united 
and to resume his place as a part. 

•«§ As the nature of the universal has gjven to every rational be- 
ing all the other powm that it has, so we have received from it this 
power also. For as the universal nature converts and fixes in its pre- 
destined place everything which stands in the way and opposes it, 

404 



MEtHTATIONS 

and makes such things a part of itself, so also the rational animal is 
able to make every hindrance its own material, and to use it for 
such purposes as it may have designed. 

Do not disturb thyself by thinking of the whole of thy life. Let 
not thy thoughts at once embrace all the various troubles which 
thou mayest expect to befall thee; but on every occasion ask thyself. 
What is there in this which is intolerable and past bearing? For thou 
wilt be ashamed to confess. In the next place remember that neither 
the future nor the past pains thee, but only the present. But this is 
reduced to a very little, if thou only circumscribest it and chidest thy 
mind, if it is unable to hold out against even this. 

Does Panthea or Pergamus now sit by the tomb of Verus? 
Does Chaurias or Diotimus sit by the tomb of Hadrian? That would 
be ridiculous. Well, suppose they did sit there, would the dead be 
conscious of it? And if the dead were conscious, would they be 
pleased? And if they were pleased, would that make them immor- 
tal? Was it not in the order of destiny that these persons too should 
first become old women and old men and then die? What then would 
those do after these were dead? All this is foul smell and blood in a 
bag. . . . 

In the constitution of the rational aitimal I see no virtue which 
is opposed to justice; but I see a virtue which is opposed to love of 
pleasure, and that is temperance. 

If thou takest away thy opinion about that which appears to 
give thee pain, thou thyself standest in perfect security. Who is this 
self? The reason. But I am not reason. Be it so. Let then the reason 
itself not trouble itself. But if any other part of thee suffers, let it 
have its own opinion about itself. 

Hindrance to the perceptions of sense is an evil to the animal 
nature. Hindrance to the movements [desires] is equally an evil to 
the animal nature. And something else also is equally an impediment 
mid an evil to the constitution of plants. So then that which is a hin- 
drance to the intelligence is an evil to the intdligent nature. Apply 
all these things then to thysdf . Does pam Or sensuous pleasure affect 
thee? The senses will look to that. Has any obstacle opposed thee in 
thy efforts toward an object? If indeed thou wast ma^g this effort 
abscdutely tmconditionally, or without any reservation, certainly this 
obstacle is an evil to thee considered as a rational animal. But if fhou 
takest into consideration the usual course of things, thou hast not 
yet been injured nor even impeded. The things, however, iitduch m 

405 



Marcus Aurelius 

proper to the understanding no other man is used to impede, for 
neiAer fire, nor iron, nor tyrant, nor abuse touches it in any way. 
When it has been made a sphere, it continues a sphere. 

It is not fit that I should give myself pain, for I have never in- 
tentionally ^ven pain even to another. 

Different things delight different people. But it is my delight 
to keep the ruling faculty sound without turning away either from 
any man or from any of ^e things which happen to me, but looking 
at and receiving all with welcome eyes and ti&ing everything accord- 
ing to its value. 

See that thou secure this present time to thyself; for those who 
rather pursue posthumous fame do not consider that the men of later 
times will be exactly such as these whom they cannot bear now; and 
both are mortal. And what is it in any way to Aee if these men of later 
times utter this or that sound, or have this or that opinion about thee? 

Take me and cast me where thou wilt; for there I shall keep 
my divine part tranquil, that is, content, if it can feel and act con- 
formably to its proper constitution. Is this change of place sufficient 
reason why my soiti should be unhappy and worse than it was, de- 
pressed, expanded, shrinking, affrighted? And what wilt thou find 
which is sufficient reason for this? 

Nothing can happen to any man which is not a human acci- 
dent, nor to an ox which is not according to the nature of an ox, nor 
to a vine which is not according to the nature of a vine, nor to a stone 
which is not proper to a stone. If then there happens to each thing 
both what is usual and natural, why shouldst thou ounplain? For the 
common nature brings nothing which may not be borne by thee. 

If tiiou art pained by any external thing, it is not this thing 
that disturbs thee, but thy own judgment about it. And it is in thy 
power to wipe out this jui^mmit now. But if anything in thy own 
dispotition gives thee pain, who hinders thee from correcting thy 
ojMnkm? And even if thou art pained because thou art not doing 
Kmae particular tlung udiich semns to thee to be right, why dost thou 
not rather act than coniq>lain? But some insuperable obstacle is in 
the way? Do not be grieved tiien, for the cause of its not being done 
dq)em]s not on thee. But it is not worthwhile to live, if this cannot 
be done. Take thy departure then from life contentedly, just as he 
dies who is in full acting, and wdl {deased too with the things which 
are obstacles. 

Renurnffier that the ruling faculty is invinciUe, uffien sdf-col- 

406 



Mbditations 

lected it is satisfied with itself, if it does nothing which it does not 
choose to do, even if it resists from mere obstinacy. What then will it 
be when it fonns a judgment about anything aided by reason and 
deliberately? Ther^ore the mind which is free from passions is a 
citadel, for man has notiiing more secure to which he can fly for 
refuge and for the future be inexpugnable. He then who has not seen 
this is an ignorant man; but he who has seen it and does not fly to 
this refuge is unhappy. 

Say nothing more to thyself than what the first appearances 
report. Suppose that it has been reported to thee that a certain person 
speaks ill of thee. This has been reported; but that thou hast been 
injured, that has not been reported. I see that my child is sick. I do 
see; but that he is in danger, I do not see. Thus then always abide 
by the first appearances, and add nothing thyself from within, and 
then nothing happens to thee. Or rather add something, like a man 
who knows ever^hing that happens in the world. 

A cucumber is bitter. Throw it away. There are briars in the 
road. Turn aside from them. This is enough. Do not add. And why 
were such things made in the world? For thou wilt be ridiculed by a 
man who is acquainted with nature, as thou wouldst be ridiculed by 
a carpenter and shoemaker if thou didst find fault because tiiou 
seest in their workshop shavings and cuttings from the things which 
they make. And yet they have places into which they can throw these 
shavings and cuttings, and the universal nature has no external space; 
but the wondrous part of her art is that, though she has circumscribed 
herself, everything within her which appears to decay and to grow old 
and to be useless she changes into herself, and again makes other new 
things from these very same, so that she requires neither substance 
from without nor wants a place into which she may cast that which 
decays. She is content then with her own space, and her own matter 
and her own art. 

Neither in thy actions be sluggi^, nor in thy conversation 
witiiout method, nor wandering in tity thoughts, nor let there be in 
thy soul inward contention nor external effusion, nor in life be so 
busy as n? have no Idsure. Snj^se that men kill thee, cut thee into 
pieces, curse thee. What then can these things do to prevent thy 
mind from remaining pure, wise, sober, just? For instance, if a man 
^ould stand by a limpid pure spring and curse it, the spring never 
ceases sending up pcUable water; and he should cast clay into it 
or filth, it will qwedily disperse tiiem and wash tiwm out, and 



Marcus Aurelius 

not be at all polluted. How then shalt thou possess a perpetual foun- 
tain and not a mere well? By forming thyself hourly to freedom 
conjoined with contentment, simplicity and modesty. 

ve^He who does not know what the world is, does not know 
where he is. And he who does not know for what purpose the world 
exists, does not know who he is nor what the world is. But he who 
has failed in any one of these things could not even say for what 
purpose he exists himself. What then dost thou think of him who 
avoids or seeks the praise of those who applafid, of men who know | 
not either where they are or who they are? ^ 

Dost thou wish to be praised by a man who curses himself 
three times every hour? Wouldst thou wish to please a man who does 
not please himself? Does a man please himself who repents of nearly 
ever3rthing that he does? 

No longer let thy breathing only act in concert with the air 
which surrounds thee, but let thy intelligence also now be in har- 
mony with the intelligence which embraces all things. For the in- 
telligent power is no less diffused in aU parts and pervades all things 
for him who is willing to draw it to him than the aerial power for 
him who is able to respire it. 

Generally, wickedness does no harm at all to the universe; 
and particularly, the wickedness of one man does no harm to another. 
It is only harmful to him, who has it in his power to be released from 
it as soon as he shall choose. . . . 

<«^He who fears death either fears the loss of sensation or a 
different kind of sensation. But if thou shalt have no sensation, 
neither wilt thou feel any harm; and if thou shalt acquire another 
kind of sensation, thou ^t be a different kind of living being, and 
thou wilt not cease to live. 

Men exist for the sake of one another. Teach them then or 
bear with them. 

In one way an arrow moves, in another way the mind. The 
nnnd, indeed, both when it exercises caution and whm it is employed 
about inquiry, moves strai^t onward to its object. 

Enter into every man’s ruling faculty; and also let every other 
man enter into thine. 


408 



DC 


H e who acts unjustly acts impiously. For since universal na- 
ture has made rational animals for the sake of one another 
to help one another according to their deserts, but in no way to in- 
jure one another, he who transgresses her will is clearly guilty of 
impiety toward the highest divinity. And he too who lies is guilty of 
impiety to the same divinity; for the universal nature is the nature 
of things that are; and things that are have a relation to all things 
that come into existence. And further, this universal nature is named 
truth and is the prime cause of all things that are true. He then who 
lies intentionally is guilty of impiety inasmuch as he acts unjustly by 
deceiving; and he also who dies unintentionally, inasmuch as he is 
at variance with the universal nature, and inasmuch as he disturbs 
the order by fighting against the nature of the world; for he fights 
against it who is moved of himself to that which is contrary to truth, 
for he had received powers from nature through the neglect of which 
he is not able now to distinguish falsehood from truth. And, indeed, 
he who pursues pleasure as good and avoids pain as evil is guilty of 
impiety. For of necessity such a man must often find fault with the 
universal nature, alle^ng that it assigns things to the bad and the 
good contrary to their deserts, because frequently the bad are in the 
enjoyment of pleasure and possess the things which procure pleas- 
ure, but the good have pain for their share and the things which 
cause pain. And further, he who is afraid of pain will sometimes 
also be afraid of some of the things which will happen in the world, 
and even this is impiety. And he who pursues pleasure will not ab- 
stain from injustice, and this is plainly impiety. Now, with respect 
to the things toward which the universal nature is equally affected — 
for it would not have made both unless it was equally affected to- 
ward both — toward these they who wish to follow nature should be 
of the same mind with it, and equally affected. With respect to pain, 
then, and pleasure, or death and life, or honor and dishonor, which 
the universal nature employs equally, whoever is not equally affected 
is manifestly acting impiously. And I say that the universal nature 
emplttys them equally, instead of saying that they happen alike to 
those who are produced in continuous series and to those who come 
after them by virtue of a certain ori^nal movement of providmice, 

409 



Marcus Aurelius 

according to which it moved from a certain beginning to this order- 
ing of things, having concdved certain principles of the things whidh 
were to be, and having determined powers productive of beings 
mid of changes and of such successions. 

It would be a man’s happiest lot to depart from mankind with- 
out having had any taste of lying and hypocrisy and luxury and 
pride. However, to breathe out one’s life when a man has had enough 
of these things is the next best voyage, as the saying is. Hast thou 
determined to abide with vice, and has not Experience yet induced | 
thee to fly from this pestilence? For the destruction of the under- 
standing is a pestilence, much more, indeed, than any such corrup- 
tion and change of this atmosphere which surrounds us. For this 
corruption is a pestilence of animals insofar as they are animals; 
but the other is a pestilence of men insofar as they are men. 

Do not despise death, but be well content with it, since this 
too is one of those things which nature wills. For such as it is to be 
young and to grow old, and to increase and to reach maturity, and 
to have teeth and beard and gray hairs, and to beget, and to be 
pregnant, and to bring forth, and all the other natural operations 
which the seasons of thy life bring, such also is dissolution. This, 
then, is consistent with the character of a reflecting man, to be neither 
careless nor impatient nor contemptuous with respect to death, but 
to wait for it as one of the operations of nature. As thou now waitest 
for the time when the child shall come out of thy wife’s womb, so 
be ready for the time when thy soul shall fall out of this envelope. 
But if thou requirest also a vulgar kind of comfort which shall reach 
thy heart, thou wilt be made best reconciled to death by observing 
the objects from which thou art going to be removed, and the morals 
of those with whom thy soul will no longer be mingled. For it is no 
way right to be offended with men, but it is thy duty to care for 
them and to bear with them gently; and yet to remember that thy 
dt^uuture will be not from men who have Ae same princijfles as thy- 
seiff. For this is the only thing, if there be any, whudi could draw us 
tlw contrary way and attadi us to life, to be pmmitted to live witii 
those who have the same prind^fles as oursdves. But now thou seest 
how great is the tirouble arising from the discordance of those who 
five togetiier, so that thou mayest say, Come quick, O Death, lest 
perchance I, too, should forget myself. 

He who does wroi^ does wrong a^inst himself. He who acts 
mijtistiy KJts unjustly to himself, because he makes himsdf bad. . . . 

410 



Meditations 

Wipe out imagination; check desire; extingoish af^tite; ke^ 
the ruling facul^ in its own power. 

««$ Among the animals which have not reason one life is distrib- 
uted; but among reasonable animals one intelligent soul is distrib- 
uted — just as there is one earth of all things which are of an earthly 
nature, and we see by one light and breathe one air, aU of us that 
have the faculty of vision and all that have life. 

All things which participate in anything which is common to 
them all move toward that which is of the same kind with themselves. 
Everything which is earthly turns toward the earth, everything which 
is liquid flows together, and everything which is of an aerial HnH 
does the same, so that they require something to keep them asunder, 
and the application of force. Fire indeed moves upward on account 
of the elemental fire, but it is so ready to be kinged together with 
all the fire which is here, that even every substance which is some- 
what dry is easily ignited, because there is less mingled with it of 
that which is a hindrance to ignition. Accordingly, Aen everything 
also which participates in the common intelligent nature moves in 
like maimer toward that which is of the same kind with itself, or 
moves even more. For so much as it is superior in comparison with 
all other things, in the same degree also is it more ready to mingle 
with and to be fused with that which is akin to it. Accordingly 
among animals devoid of reason we find swarms of bees and herds 
of cattle and the nurture of young birds and, in a way, loves; for 
even in animals there are souls, and that power which brings them 
together is seen to exert itself in the superior degree, and in such a 
way as never has been observed in plants nor in stones nor in trees. 
But in rational anim als there are political communities and &iend- 
ships, and families and meetings of people; and in wars, treaties and 
armistices. But in the things which are still superior, even though 
they are separated from one another, unity exists, as in the stars. 
Thus the ascent to the higher degree is able to produce a sympafiiy 
even in things which are separated. See, then, what now takes place. 
For only in te lligent animab have now forgotten this mutual desire 
and inclination, and in them alone the property of flowing together 
is not seen. But still, thou^ men strive to avoid this union, they are 
caught and held by it, for their nature is too str<mg for fiiem; and 
thou witt see what I say, if thou oifly observest. Sooner, then, will 
one find anything earthly ndiich comes in omtfact with no earthly 
thing, than a man altogefiier separated from other men. 


411 



Marcus Aurelius 

««^Both man and God and the universe produce fruit; at the 
proper seasons each produces it. But if usage has especially fixed 
these terms to the vine and like things, this is nothing. Reason pro- 
duces fruit both for all and for itself, and there are produced from 
it other things of the same kind as reason itself. 

<«^If thou art able, correct by teaching those who do wrong; 
but if thou canst not, remember that indulgence is given to thee for 
this purpose. And the gods, too, are indulgent to such persons; and 
for some purposes they even help them to get 'health, wealth, reputa-| 
tions; so kind they are. And it is in thy power also; or say, who* 
hinders thee? 

Labor not as one who is wretched, nor yet as one who would 
be pitied or admired; but direct thy will to one thing only, to put 
thyself in motion and to check thyself, as social reason requires. 

Today I have got out of all trouble, or rather I have cast 
out aU trouble, for it was not outside, but within and in my opinions. 

All things are the same, familiar in experience, and ephemeral 
in time and worthless in matter. Everything now is just as it was in 
the time of those whom we have buried. 

Things stand outside of us, themselves by themselves, neither 
knowing aught of themselves, nor expressing any judgment. What is 
it, then, which does judge about them? The ruling faculty. . . . 

Termination of activity, cessation from movement and opin- 
ion, and death are not evil. Turn thy thoughts now to the considera- 
tion of thy life, thy life as a chOd, as a youth, thy manhood, thy old 
age, for in these ^so every change was a death. Is this anything to 
fear? Turn thy thoughts now to thy life under thy grandfather, then 
to thy life under thy mother, then to thy life under thy father; and 
as thou findest many other differences and changes and terminations, 
ask thyself, is this anything to fear? In like manner, then, neither 
are the termination and cessation and change of thy whole life things 
to be afraid of. 

Hasten to examine thy own ruling faculty _and that of the 
univmrse and that of thy neighbor; thy own, that Aou mayest make 
it just; and that of the universe, that thou mayest remember of what 
thou art a part; and that of thy neigjibor, that thou mayest know 
whether he has acted ignorantly or with knowled^, and that thou 
mayest also consider that his ruling faculty is akin to thine. 

^As thou thysdf art a component part of a social system, so 

every act of thine be a component part of social life. Whatever 

412 



Meditations 

act of thine then has no reference, either inunediately or remotely, 
to a social end, this tears asunder thy life and does not allow it to 
be one, and it is of the nature of a mutiny, just as when in a popular 
assembly a man acting by himself stands apart from the general 
agreement. . . . 

When another blames thee or hates thee, or when men say 
about thee anything injurious, approach their poor souls, penetrate 
within and see what kind of men they are. Thou wilt discover that 
there is no reason to take any trouble that these men may have this 
or that opinion about thee. However, thou must be well-disposed 
toward them, for by nature they are friends. And the gods too aid 
them in all ways, by dreams, by signs, toward the attainment of those 
things on which they set a value. 

The periodic movements of the universe are the same, up and 
down from age to age. And either the universal intelligence puts it- 
self in motion for every separate effect, and if this is so, be thou con- 
tent with that which is the result of its activity; or it puts itself in 
motion once, and everything else comes by way of sequence; or 
indivisible elements are the origin of all things. In a word, if there 
is a God, all is weU; and if chance rules, do not thou also be gov- 
erned by it. 

Soon will the earth cover us all; then the earth, too, will change, 
and the things also which result from change will continue to change 
forever, and these again forever. For if a man reflects on the changes 
and transformations which follow one another like wave after wave 
and their rapidity, he will despise everything which is perishable. 

<•§ The universal cause is like a winter torrent: it carries every- 
thing along with it. But how worthless are all these poor people who 
are engaged in matters political, and, as they suppose, are playing 
the philosopher! All drivelers. Well then, man, do what nature now 
requires. Set thyself in motion, if it is in thy power, and do not look 
about thee to see if anyone will observe it; nor yet expect Plato’s Re- 
public; but be content if the smallest thing goes on weU, and consider 
such an event to be no small matter. For who can change men’s opin- 
ions? And without a change of opinions what else is there than the 
slavery of men who groan while they pretend to obey? Come now and 
tell me of Alexander and Philip and Demetrius of Phalerum. Th^ 
themselves shall judge whether they discovered whi^ the common 
nature required, and trained themselves accordin^y. But if they acted 
like tragic heroes, no (me has condemned me to imUate them. Sim^e 

413 



Mcarcm Aurelius 

and modest is the work of philosojphy. Draw me not aside to insolence 
and pride. 

Look down from above on the countless herds of men and their 
coundess solemnities, and the infinitely varied voyagings in storms 
and calms,, and the differences among those who are bom, who live 
together and (fie. And consider, too, the life lived by others in olden 
time, and the life of those who will live after thee, and the life now 
among barbarous nations, and bow many know not even thy 
name, and how many will soon forget it, anjl^bow they who, perhaps,/ 
now are praising thee will very soon blame thee, and that neither at 
posthumous name is of any value, nor reputation, nor anythingl 
else. ... \ 

Thou canst remove out of the way many useless things among \ 
those which (fisturb thee, for they lie entirely in thy opinion; and \ 
thou wilt then gain for thyself ample space by comprehending the 
whole universe in thy mind, and by contemplating the eternity of 
time, and observing the rapid change of everything, how short is the 
time from birth to dissolution, and the illimitable time before birth 
as well as the equally boundless time after (fissolution. 

All that thou seest will quickly perish, and those who have 
been spectators of its dissolution wifi very soon perish too. And he 
who dies at the extremest old age will be brou^t into the same 
condition with him who died prematurely. 

* 0 % What are these men’s leading principles, and about what kind 
of things are they busy, and for what kind of reasons do they love 
and honor? Imag^e that thou seest their poor souls laid bare. When 
they think that they do harm by their blame or good by their praise, 
what an ideal 

Loss is nothing else than change. But the universal nature 
delights in (diange, and in obedience to her all things are now done 
well, and from eternity have been done in like form, and will be 
such to time without end. What, then, dost thou say? That all things 
have been and all thi^ always will be bad, and that no power has 
ever been found in so many gods to rectify thrae things, but the 
world has been condemned to be bound in never-ceaang evil? 

The rottenness of the matter which is the foundation of evmy- 
thing— watm:, dust, Ixmes, filth; or again, marble rocks, the' cal- 
h>sides of the earth; and gcdd and silver, die sediments; and garments, 
cndy bits of hair; and pur^ dye, blood; and everything else is of the 

414 



Meditations 

same kind. And that which is of the nature of breath is also 
thing of the same kind, chan^g from this to that. 

Enough of this wretched life and murmuring and apish tricks. 
Why ait thou disturbed? What is there new in this? What unsettles 
thee? Is it the form of the thing? Look at it. Or is it the matter? Look 
at it But besides these, there is nothing. Toward the gods, then, now 
become at last more simple and better. It is the same whether we 
examine these things for a hundred years or three. . . . 

Either the gods have no power or they have power. If, then, 
they have no power, why dost thou pray to them? But if they have 
power, why dost thou not pray for diem to ^ve thee the faculty of 
not fearing any of the things which thou fearest, or of not desiring 
any of the things which thou desirest, or not being pained at any- 
thing, rather than pray that any of these things should not happen 
or happen? For certaiky if they can co-operate with men, they can 
co-operate for these purposes. But perhaps thou wilt say the gods 
have placed them in thy power. Well, then, is it not better to use what 
is in ^y power like a free man than to desire in a slavish and abject 
way what is not in thy power? And who has told thee that the gods 
do not aid us even in the things which are in our power? Begin, 
then, to pray for such things, and thou wilt see. One man prays thus: 
How sha^ I be able to lie with that woman? Do thou pray thus: How 
shall I not desire to lie with her? Another prays thus: How shall I be 
released from this? Do thou pray: How shall I not desire to be re- 
leased? Another thus: How shall I not lose my litde son? Thou thus: 
How shall I not be afraid to lose him? In fine, turn thy prayers this 
way, and see what comes. 

Epicurus says. In my sickness my conversation was not about 
my bodily sufferings, nor, says he, did I talk on such subjects to 
those who visited me; but I continued to discourse on the nature of 
things as before, keeping to this main point: how the mind, while 
participating in such movements as go on in the poor flesh, shall be 
free from perturbation and maintain its proper good. Nor did I, he 
says, 0ve the physicians an opportunity of putting on solemn looks, 
as if they were doing something great, but my life went on well and 
happily. 

tSo, tihen, the same tirnt he (fid both in nckness, if thou art sick, 
and in ai^ (^w ciicomstances; for never to desert philosophy in 
any events that may befall us, inm to hdd trifling talk either with an 

415 



Marcus Aurelius 

ignorant man or wi^ one unacquainted with nature is a principle of 
all schools of philosophy; but to be intent only on that which diou 
art now doing and on the instrument by which thou doest it 

(«§When thou art offended with any man’s shameless conduct, 
immediately ask thyself, Is it possible, then, that shameless men 
should not be in the world? It is not possible. Do not, then, require 
what is impossible. For this man also is one of those shameless men 
who must of necessity be in the world. Let the same considerations 
be present to thy mind in the case of the knave, and the faithless 
man, and of every man who does wrong ’ih" any way. For, at the| 
same time, that thou dost remind thyself that it is impossible thatl 
such kind of men should not exist, thou wilt become more kindly dis-\ 
posed toward every one individually. It is useful to perceive this, too, 
immediately when the occasion arises, what virtue nature has given 
to man to oppose to every wrongful act. For she has given to man, 
as an antidote against the stupid man, mildness, and against another 
kind of man some other power. And in all cases it is possible for thee 
to correct by teaching the man who is gone astray; for every man who 
errs misses his object and is gone astray. Besides, wherein hast thou 
been injured? For thou wilt find that no one among those against 
whom thou art irritated has done anything by which thy mind could 
be made worse; but that which is evil to thee and harmful has its 
foundation only in the mind. And what harm is done or what is there 
strange if the man who has not been instructed does the acts of an 
uninstructed man? 

Consider whether thou shouldst not rather blame thyself, because 
thou didst not expect such a man to err in such a way. For thou 
hadst means given thee by thy reason to suppose that it was likely 
that he would commit this error, and yet thou hast forgotten and art 
amazed that he has erred. But most of all when thou blamest a man 
as faithless or ungrateful, turn to thyself. For the fault is manifestly 
thy own, whether thou didst trust that a man who had such a disposi- 
tion would keep his promise, or when conferring thy kindness thou 
didst not confer it absolutely, nor yet in such a way as to have re- 
ceived from thy very act all &e profit. For what more dost thou want 
when thou hast done a man a service? Art thou not content that thou 
hast done so methin g conformable to thy nature, and dost thou seek 
to be paid for it? Just as if the eye demanded a recompense for seeing, 
or die feet fmr walking. For as these members are formed for a 
particular purpose, and by working accortfing to their several con- 

416 



Meditations 

stitations obtain what is their own; so also as man is formed by 
nature to acts of benevolence, when he has done any thing benevo- 
lent or in any other way conducive to the common int»est, he has 
acted conformably to his constitution, and he gets what is Us own. 


X 

W ILT THOU, THEN, my soul, never be good and simple and one 
and naked, more manifest than the body which surrounds thee? 
Wilt thou never enjoy an affectionate and contented disposition? Wilt 
thou never be full and without a want of any kind, longing for nothing 
more, nor desiring anything, either animate or inanimate, for the 
enjoyment of pleasures? Nor yet desiring time wherein thou shalt 
have longer enjoyment, or place, or pleasant climate, or society of 
men with whom thou mayest live in harmony? But wilt thou be sat- 
isfied with thy present condition, and pleased with all that is about 
thee, and wilt thou convince thyself that thou hast everything and 
that it comes from the gods, that everything is well for thee, and 
will be well whatever shall please them, and whatever they shall ^ve 
for the conservation of the perfect living being, the good and just and 
beautiful, which generates and holds together all things, and contains 
and embraces all things which are dissolved for the production of 
other like things? Wilt thou never be such that thou shUt so dwell in 
community with gods and men as neither to find fault with them at 
all, nor to be condemned by them? 

Observe what thy nature requires, insofar as thou art govoned 
by nature only; then do it and accept it, if thy nature, insofar as thou 
art a living being, shall not be made worse by it. And next thou must 
observe what thy nature requires insofar as thou art a living bmng. 
And all this thou mayest allow thyself, if thy nature, insofar as thou 
art a rational animal, shall not be made worse by it. But the rational 
animal is consequently also a political [social] animal. Use these 
rules, then, and trouble thyself about nothing else. 

Everything which happens either happens in such a way as 
thou art formed by nature to bear it, or as thou art not formed by 
nature to bear it. If, then, it happens to thee in such a way as thou 
art formed by nature to bear it, do not complain, but bear it as thou 
art formed by nature. But if it happens m such a way as thou art 
not formed by nature to bear it, do not complain, for it will perish 

417 



Marcus Aurelius 

after it has consumed thee. Remember, however, that thou art formed 
by nature to bear everything, with respect to which it depends on 
thy own opinion to make it endurable and tolerable, by thinking 
that it is either thy interest or thy duty to do this. 

If a man is mistaken, instruct him kindly and show him his 
error. But if thou art not able, blame thyself, or blame not even 
thyself. 

Whatever may happen to thee, it was prepared for thee from 
all eternity; and the implication of causes was from eternity spinning 
the thread of thy being, and of that whicfi Is incident to it. (i 

Whether the universe is a concourse of atoms, or nature is ai\ 
system, let this first be established, that 1 am a part of the wholeH 
which is governed by nature; next, I am in a manner intimately re- 
lated to the parts which are of the same kind as myself. For remem- 
bering this, inasmuch as I am a part, I shall be discontented with 
none of the things which are assigned to me out of the whole; for 
nothing is injurious to the part if it is for the advantage of the whole. 
For the whole contains nothing which is not for its advantage; and all 
natures indeed have this common principle, but the nature of the 
universe has this principle besides, Aat it cannot be compelled even 
by miy external cause to generate anything harmful to itself. By 
remembering, then, that I am a part of such a whole, I shall be 
content with everything that happens. And inasmuch as I am in 
a manner intimately related to the parts which are of the same kind 
with myself, I shall do nothing unsocial, but I shall rather direct 
myself to the things which are of the same kind with myself, and I 
shall turn all my efforts to the common interest and divert them from 
the contrary. Now, if these things are done so, life must flow on hap- 
l^y, just as thou mayest observe that the life of a citizen is happy 
w1k> ccmtinues a course of action which is advantageous to his feUow 
dtizens, and is content with whatever the state may assign to 
him. . . . 

««§When thou bast assumed these names, good, modest, true, 
ratioiial, a man of equanimi^, and magnanimous, take care thou 
dost not diange these names; and if thou shouldst lose them, qiuckly 
return to them. And remember that the term “rational” was intended 
to signify a discriminating attention to every several thing and freedom 
from neg^^nce; and that “equanimify” is the voluntary acceptance 
of flie things wUch are assigned to thee ly the common nature; and 
that “mt^animify” is the elevation of the intelligent part above die 

418 



Meditations 

pleasurable or painful sensations of the flesh, and above that poor 
thing called fame, and death and all such things. If, than, thou main- 
tainest thyself in tiie possession of these names, without rfftsiring to 
be called by these names by others, thou wilt be ano th e r person and 
wilt enter on another life. For to continue to be such as thou hast 
hitherto been and to be tom into pieces and defiled in such a life 
is the character of a very stupid man and one overfond of his life, 
and like those half-devoured fighters with wild beasts, who, thnngh 
covered with wounds and gore, still entreat to be kept to the follow- 
ing day, though they will be exposed in the same state to the same 
claws and bites. 

Therefore fix thyself in the possession of these few names; and if 
thou art able to abide in them, abide as if thou wast removed to 
certain Islands of the Blessed. But if thou shalt perceive that thou 
fullest out of them and dost not maintain thy hold, go courageootiy 
into some nook where thou shalt maintain them, or even depart at 
once from life, not in passion, but with simplicity and freedom and 
modesty, after doing this one laudable thing at least in thy life, to 
have gone out of it thus. In order, however, to the remembrance of 
these names, it will greatly help thee, if thou rememberest the gods, 
and that they wish not to be flattered, but wish aU reasonable beings 
to be made like themselves; and if thou rememberest that what does 
the work of a fig tree is a fig tree, and that what does the work of 
a bee is a bee, and that what does the work of a man is a man. 

Mimicry, war, astonishment, torpor, slavery will daily wipe 
out those holy principles of thine. How many things without studyii^ 
nature dost thou imagine, and how many dost thou neglect? But it is 
thy duty so to look on and so to do everything, that at the same time 
the power of dealing with circumstances is perfected, and the con- 
templative faculty is exerdsed, and the confidence which comes 
from the knowledge of eadi thing is maintained without showing it, 
but yet not concealed. For when wilt thou enjoy simplicity, when 
gravity, and when the knowledge of everything, both what it is in 
substance, and what place it has in the universe, and how long it is 
formed to exist, and of \diat things it is compounded, and to whom 
it can belong, and who are alfie both to give it and take it away? 

spider is proud when it has caugj^t a fly, and one man 
when he has caught a poor hare, and another vdien he has taken a 
littte fish in a net, and anr^ier when he has taken wild boars, and 
anotiMtf whm he has taken bears, and another when be has taken 

419 



Marcus Aurelius 

barbarians. Are not these robbers, if thou examinest their opinions? 

Acquire the contemplative way of seeing how all things change 
into one another, and constandy attend to it, and exercise thyself 
about this part of philosophy. For nothing is so much adapted to 
produce magnanimity. Such a man has put off the body, and, as he 
sees that he must (no one knows how soon) go away from among 
men and leave everything here, he ^ves himself up entirely to just 
doing in all his actions, and in everything else that happens, he re* 
signs himself to the universal nature. But as to what any man shall 
say or think about him or do against him? he never even thinks o^ 
it, being hims elf contented with these two things, with acting justlyl 
in what he now does, and being satisfied with what is now assi^edl 
to him; and he lays aside all distracting and busy pursuits, and desires 
nothing else than to accomplish the straight course through the law, 
and by accomplishing the straight course to follow God. 

What need is there of suspicious fear, since it is in thy power 
to inquire what ought to be done? And if thou seest clear, go by 
this way content, without turning back; but if thou dost not see clear, 
stop and take the best advisers. But if any other things oppose thee, 
go on according to thy powers with due consideration, keeping to 
that which appears to be just. For it is best to reach this object, and 
if thou dost fail, let thy failure be in attempting this. He who follows 
reason in all things is both tranquil and active at the same time, and 
also cheerful and collected. 

Inquire of thyself as soon as thou wakest from sleep whether 
it will make any difference to thee, if another does what is just and 
rij^t. It will make no difference. 

Thou hast not forgotten, I suppose, that those who assume ar- 
rogant airs in bestowing their praise or blame on others are such as 
they are at bed and at board, and thou hast not forgotten what they 
do, and what they avoid and what they pursue, and how they steal 
and how they rob, not with hands and feet, but with their most valu- 
able part, by means of which there is produced, when a man chooses, 
fidelity, modes^, trudi, law, happiness? 

To her who gives and takes back all, to nature, the man who 
is instructed and modest says, Give what thou wilt; take back what 
thou wilt. And he says this not proudly, but obedientfy and well 
pleased with her. . . . 

Look at everything that exists, and observe that it is already 

420 



Meditations 

in dissolution and in change, and, as it were, putrefaction or disper- 
sion, or that everything is so constituted by nature as to die. 

Consider what men are when they are eating, sleeping, generat- 
ing, easing themselves and so forth. Then what kind of men they 
are when they are imperious and arrogant, or an^ and scolding 
from their elevated place. But a short time ago to how many they 
were slaves and for what things; and after a little time consider in 
what a condition they will be. 

What is for the good of each thing, the universal nature brings 
to each. And it is for its good at the time when nature brings it. 

<•§ “The earth loves the shower” and “the solemn ether loves”; 
and the universe loves to make whatever is about to be. I say then 
to the universe, that I love as thou lovest. And is not this too said, 
that “this or that loves to be produced”? 

Either thou livest here and hast already accustomed thyself 
to it, or thou art going away, and this was thy own will; or thou art 
dying and hast discharged thy duty. But besides these things there 
is nothing. Be of good cheer, then. 

<«^Let this always be plain to thee, that this piece of land is 
like any other; and that all things here are the same with things on 
the top of a mountain or on the seashore or wherever thou choosest 
to be. For thou wilt find just what Plato says, dwelling within the 
walls of a city as in a shepherd’s fold on a mountain. 

What is my ruling faculty now to me? And of what nature am 
I now making it? And for what purpose am I now using it? Is it void 
of understanding? Is it loosed and rent asunder from social life? Is it 
melted into and mixed with the poor flesh so as to move together with 
it? 

<«^He who flies from his master is a runaway; but the law is 
master, and he who breaks the law is a runaway. And he also who 
is grieved or angry or afraid is dissatisfied because something has 
been or is or shall be of the things which are appointed by Him 
who rules all things, and He is Law, and assigns to every mw what 
is fit. He then who fears or is grieved or is angry is a runaway. 

man deposits seed in a womb and goes away, and then an- 
other cause takes it, and labors on it and makes a child. What a thing 
from such a material! Again, the child passes food down through the 
throat, and then another cause takes it and makes perception and 
motion, and in fine life and strength and other things; how many 

421 



Mdrcus AureUus 

and bow strange! Observe then the things whidi are larodnced in sodi 
a hidden way, and see the power just as we see the pow» which 
carries things downward and upward, not with the eyes, but still no 
less plainly. 

Constantly consider how all things such as they now are, in 
time past also were; and consider that they will be the same again. 
And place before thy eyes entire dramas and stages of the same 
form, whatever thou hast learned from thy experience or from older 
history; for example, the whole court of HadFipn, and the whole court , 
cl Antoninus, and the whole court of Philip, Alexander, Croesus; for f 
aH those were such dramas as we see now, only with different actors. 

Imagine every man who is grieved at anything or discontented ) 
to be like a pig which is sacrificed and kicks and screams. 

Like this pig also is he who on his bed in silence laments the 
bonds in which we are held. And consider that only to the rational 
animal is it given to follow voluntarily what happens; but simply to 
follow is a necessity imposed on all. 

Severally on the occasion of everything that thou doest, pause 
and ask thyself if death is a dreadful thing because it deprives thee of 
this. 

When thou art offended at any man’s fault, forthwith turn to 
thyself and reflect in what like manner thou dost err thyself; for ex- 
ample, in thinking that money is a good thing, or pleasure, or a bit 
of reputation, and the like, for by attending to this thou wilt quickly 
forget thy anger, if this consideration also is added, that the man is 
compell^; for what else could he do? or, if thou art able, take away 
from him the compulsion. 

When thou hast seen Satyron the Socratic, think of either Eu- 
i^ches or Hymen; and when thou hast seen Euphrates, think of Eu- 
tychion or Silvanus; and when thou hast seen Alciphron, think of 
Tropaeophorus; and when thou hast seen Xenophon, think of Crito 
or Iteverus; and when thou hast looked on thyself, think of any other 
Caesar, and, in the case of everyone, do in like manner. Then let 
tins thought be in thy mind: where Aen are those men? Nowhere, 
or nobody knows where. For thus continuously thou wilt look at 
human ti^gs as smoke and nothing at all; especially if thmi re* 
fleetest at the same time that what has once changed will never exist 
again in tiie infinite duration of time. But thou, in what a brief ^ace 
of time is thy existence? And why art thou not crmtmit to pass through 
tins iriKMt time in an orderly way? What matter and ojqxntuni^ for 

422 



Meditations 

thy activity art thou avoiding? For what dse are all diese things, 
except ecercises for the reason, whra it has viewed car^ully and by 
exanunation into their nature the things which happen in life? 
Persev»e then until thou shalt have made these things thy own, as 
the stomadi which is strengthened makes all things its own, as the 
Mazing fire makes fiame and brightness out of everything that is 
thrown into it. 

Let it not be in any man’s power to say truly of thee that 
thou art not simple, or that thou art not good; but let him be a liar 
whoever shall think anything of this kind about thee; and this is 
altogether in thy power. For who is he that shall hinder thee from 
being good and simple? Do thou only determine to live no longer, 
unless thou shalt be such. For neither does reason allow thee to live, 
if thou art not such. 

<«^What is that which, as to this material [our life], can be 
done or smd in the way most conformable to reason? For whatever 
this may be, it is in thy power to do it or to say it, and do not make 
excuses that thou art hindered. Thou wilt not cease to lament till thy 
tnitid is in such a condition that, what luxury is to those who enjoy 
pleasure, such shall be to thee, in the matter which is subjected and 
presented to thee, the doing of the things which ate conformable to 
man’s constitution; for a man ought to consider as an enjoyment 
everything which it is in his power to do according to his own nature. 
And it is in his power everywhere. Now, it is not gjven to a cylinder 
to move everywhere by its own motion, not yet to water nor to fire, 
nor to any thing else wWch is governed by nature or an irrational 
soul, for the things which check them and stand in the way are many. 
But intelligence and reason are able to go through everything that 
opposes them, and in such maim»' as they are formed by nature 
and as they choose. Place before thy eyes this facility, with which the 
reason will be carried through all things, as fire upward, as a stone 
downward, as a cylinder down an inclined surface, and seek for 
nothing further. For all other obstacles either affect the body only, 
whidi is a dead thing; or, except flurou^ opnion and tiie 3deltog 
of tlw reason itself, they do not crush nor do any harm of any kind; 
for if th^ did, he who felt it would immediately become bad. Now, 
in the case of all things which have a certain constitution, whatevw 
harm may haj^ to any of them, tiiat which is so affected becomes 
consequmitly worse; but in the like case, a man becomes both better, 
if cme may say so, and more worthy <rf praise by makin g a rigjht use 

423 . 



Marcus Aurelius 

of these accidents. And iSnally remember that nothing harms him 
who is really a citizen, which does not harm the state; nor yet does 
anything harm the state which does not harm the law [order]; and 
of these things which are called misfortunes not one harms law. What 
then does not harm law does not harm either state or citizen. 

To him who is penetrated by true principles, even the briefest 
precept is sufficient, and any common precept, to remind him that 
he should be free from grief and fear. For example: 

Leaves, some the wind scatters .on the ground-^ 

So is the race of men. 

Leaves, also, are thy children; and leaves, too, are they who cry oui 
as if they were worthy of credit and bestow their praise, or, on thel 
contrary, curse or secretly blame and sneer; and leaves, in like tnan- > 
ner, are those who shall receive and transmit a man’s fame to later < 
times. For all such things as these “are produced in the season of 
spring,” as the poet says; then the wind casts them down; then the 
forest produces other leaves in their places. But a brief existence is 
common to all things, and yet thou avoidest and pursuest all things 
as if they would be eternal. A little time, and thou shalt close thy 
eyes; and him who has attended thee to thy grave another soon wiU | 
lament. 

The healthy eye ought to see all visible things and not to say, 

I wish for green things; for this is the condition of a diseased eye. 
And the healthy hearing and smelling ought to be ready to perceive 
all that can be heard and smelled. And the healthy stomach ought 
to be with respect to all food just as the mill with respect to all things 
vffiich it is formed to grind. And accordingly the healthy understand- 
ing ought to be prepared for everything which happens; but that 
whidh says. Let my dear children live, and let all men praise what- 
ever 1 may do, is an eye which seeks for green things, or teeth which 
seek for soft things. 

There is no man so fortunate that there shall not be by him, 
when he is dying, soffie who are pleased with whst is going to happen. 
Suppose that he was a good and wise man, will there not be at last 
someone to say to himself. Let us at last breathe freely being re- 
lieved from this schoolmaster? It is true that he was harsh tp none 
us, but I perceived that he tacitly condemned us. This is what 
said of a good man. 

But in our own case, how many other things are there for whidi 

424 



Meditations 

there are many who wish to get rid of us? Thou wilt conader this 
then when thou art dying, and thou wilt depart more contentedly by 
reflecting thus: I am going away from such a life, in which even my 
associates in behalf of whom I have striven so much, prayed and 
cared, themselves wish me to depart, hoping perchance to get some 
little advantage by it. Why then should a man cling to a longer stay 
here? Do not, however, for this reason go away less kindly disposed 
to them, but preserving thy own character, be friendly and benevolent 
and mild; and on the other hand, not as if thou wast tom away, 
but as when a man dies a quiet death, and the poor soul is easily 
separated from the body, such also ought thy departure from men 
to be, for nature united thee to them and associated thee. But does 
she now dissolve the union? Well, I am separated as from kinsmen, 
not however dragged resisting, but without compulsion; for this too 
is one of the things according to nature. 

Accustom thyself as much as possible on the occasion of any> 
thing being done by any person to inquire of thyself. For what object 
is this man doing this? But begin with thyself, and examine thyself 
first. 

^ Remember that this which pulls the strings is the thing which 
is hidden within; this is the power of persuasion, this is life; this, if 
one may so say, is man. In contemplating thyself never include 
the vessel which surrounds thee, and these instruments which are 
attached about it. For they are like an ax, differing only in that they 
grow to the body. For indeed there is no more use in these parts with- 
out the cause which moves and checks them than in the weaver’s 
shuttle, and the writer’s pen and the driver’s whip. 


XI 

T hese are the properties of the rational soul: it sees iteelf, 
analyzes itself and makes itself such as it chooses; the fruit which 
it bears itself enjoys— for the fruits of plants, and that in anim^ 
which corresponds to fruits, others enjoy; it obtains its own end, 
wherever the limit of life may be fixed. Not as in a dance and in a 
play and in such things, where the whole action is incomplete, if 
anything cuts it short; but in every part and wherever it may be 
stopped, it malms what has been set before it full and complete, so 
that it can say, I have what is my own. And further it traverses the 

425 



Marcus Aurelius 

whole universe, and the suiroimding vacuum, and surveys its form, 
and it extends itsdf into the infini^ of time, and embraces and com- 
prehends the periodical renovation of all things, and it comprehends 
that those who come after us will see nothing new, nor have those 
before us seen anything more; but in a manner be who is forty years 
old, if he has any understanding at ah, has seen, by virtue of the 
uniformity that prevails, all things which have been and all that will 
be. This, too, is a proper^ of the rational soul, love dt one’s neigiibor, 
and truth and modesty, and to value nothii^^more than itself, which ; 
is also the property of law. Thus, then, right reason differs not at allj 
from the reason of justice. 

Thou wilt set little value on pleasing song and dancing if thou 
wilt distribute the melody of the voice into its several sounds, and 
ask thyself as to each, if thou art pleased by this, for thou wilt be 
prevented by shame from confessing it; and in the matter of dancing, 
if at each movement and attitude thou wilt do the same. In all things, 
then, except virtue and the acts of virtue, remember to apply thyself 
to their several parts, and by this division to come to value ftem 
little; and apply this rule also to thy whole life. 

What a soul that is which is ready, if at any moment it must 
be separated from the body, and ready either to Ik extinguished or 
dispersed or continue to exist; but this readiness comes from a man’s 
own judgment, not from mere obstinacy, as with the Christians, but 
considerately and with dignity and in a way to persuade another, 
without tra^c show. 

t«$Have I done something for the general interest? Well then, 
I have had my reward. Let this always be present to my mind, and 
iKver stop doing such good. 

. What is thy art? To be good. And bow is this accomplished 
well except by general prindples, some about the nature of tte uni- 
verse, and others about the proper constitution of man? 

i«^At first tragedies were brought on the stage as means of re- 
minding men of the t^gs which happen to them, and that it is 
according to nature for things to happen so, and that, if you are 
ddig^ted with what is shown on the stage, you shoidd not be troubled 
with that wbidi takes j^ace on the larger stage. For you see that 
tiiese thii^is must be accmniriidied thus, and that evea th^ bear them 
who ay out, “O Othaeron.” * And, indeed, s(Mne things are said 
wen by the ^rmnatic writers, of which kind is tiie following especially: 
* From Oedipus the JOug 

426 



Meditations 

Me and my children if the gods neglect. 

This has its reason too. 

And again: 

We must not chafe and fret at that which happens. 

And: 


Life’s harvest reap like the wheafs fruitful ear. 

And other things of the same kind. 

After tragedy the old comedy was introduced, which had a mag- 
isterial freedom of speech, and by its very plainness of speaking was 
useful in reminding men to beware of insolence; and for this purpose 
too Diogenes used to take from these writers. 

But as to the middle comedy which came next, observe what it 
was, and again, for what object the new comedy was introduced, 
which gradually sank down into a mere mimic artifice. That some 
good things are said even by these writers, everybody knows; but 
the whole plan of such poetry and dramaturgy, to what end does it 
look! 

How plain does it appear that there is not another condition 
of life so well suited for philosophizing as this in which thou now 
happenest to be. 

branch cut off from the adjacent branch must of necessity 
be cut off from the whole tree also. So too a man when he is separated 
from another man has fallen off from the whole social community. 
Now as to a branch, another cuts it off, but a man by his own act 
separates himself from his neighbor when he hates him and turns 
away from him, and he does not know that he has at the same time 
cut himself off firom the whole social system. Yet he has this privilege 
certainly from Zeus, who framed society, for it is in our power to 
grow again to that which is near to us, and again to become, a part 
which helps to make up the whole. However, if it often happens, 
this kind of separation makes it difficult for that which detaches 
itself to be brou^t to unity and to be restored to its former condition. 
Finally, the branch, which from the first grew together witii the tree, 
and has continued to have one life with it, is not like that which 
after bdng cut off is then ingrafted, for this is something like what 
the gardram memi when they say that it grows with the rest of the 
tree, but tiiat h has not the same mind with it. 


427 



Marcus Aurelius 

As those who try to stand in thy way when thou art proceed- 
ing according to right reason will not be able to turn thee aside from 
thy proper action, so neither let them drive thee from thy benevolent 
feelings toward them, but be on thy guard equally in both matters, 
not only in the matter of steady judgment and action, but also in the 
matter of gentleness toward those who try to hinder or otherwise 
trouble thee. For this also is a weakness, to be vexed at them, as 
well as to be diverted from thy course of action and to ^ve way 
through fear; for both are equally deserters ,f|^om their post, the man 
who does it through fear, and Ae man who is alienated from him 
who is by nature a kinsman and a friend. 

There is no nature which is inferior to art, for the arts imitate 
the natures of things. But if this is so, that nature which is the 
most perfect and the most comprehensive of all natures cannot fall 
short of the skill of art. Now all arts do the inferior things for the 
sake of the superior; therefore the universal nature does so too. And, 
indeed, hence is the ori^n of justice, and in justice the other virtues 
have their foundation; for justice will not be observed, if we either 
care for middle things, things indifferent, or are easily deceived and 
careless and changeable. 

If the things do not come to thee, the pursuits and avoidances 
of which disturb thee, still in a manner thou goest to them. Let then 
thy judgment about them be at rest, and they will remain quiet, and 
thou wUt not be seen either pursuing or avoiding. . . . 

Suppose any man shall despise me. Let him look to that him- 
self. But I will look to this, that I be not discovered doing or saying 
anything deserving of contempt. Shall any man hate me? Let him 
look to it. But I will be mild and benevolent toward every man, and 
jready to show even him his mistake, not reproachfully, nor yet as 
making a display of my endurance, but nobly and honestly, like the 
great Phodion, unless indeed he only assumed it. For the interior 
parts ought to be such, and a man ought to be seen by the gods 
neither dissatisfied with anything nor complaining. For what evil is 
it to thee if thou art now doing what is agreeable-to thy own nature 
and art satisfied with that which at this moment is suitable to the 
nature of the universe, since thou art a human being placed at thy 
post in order that what is for the common advantage may be done 
in some way? . . . 

How unsound and insincere is he who says, I have determined 

428 



Meditations 

to deal with thee in a fair way. What art thou doing, man? There 
is no occasion to ^ve tlus notice. It will soon show itself by acts. The 
voice ought to be plainly written on the forehead. Such as a man’s 
character is, he immediately shows it in his eyes, just as he who 
is beloved forthwith reads everything in the eyes of lovers. The 
who is honest and good ought to be exactly like a man who smells 
strong, so that the bystander as soon as he comes near him must 
smell, whether he chooses to or not. But the affectation of 
simplicity is like a crooked stick. Nothing is more disgraceful than 
a wolfish friendship [false friendship]. Avoid this most of all. The 
good and simple and benevolent show all these things in the eyes, 
and there is no mistaking. 

As to living in the best way, this power is in the soul, if it be 
indifferent to things which are in^fferent. And it will be indifferent 
if it looks on each of these things separately and all together, and if 
it remembers that not one of them produces in us an opinion about 
itself, nor comes to us; but these things remain immovable, and it is 
we ourselves who produce the judgments about them, and, as we 
may say, write them in ourselves, it being in our power not to write 
them, and it being in our power, if perchance these judgments have 
imperceptibly got admission to our minds, to wipe them out; and 
if we remember also that such attention will only be for a short time, 
and then life will be at an end. Besides, what trouble is there at all 
in doing this? For if these things are according to nature, rejoice in 
them, and they will be easy to thee; but if contrary to nature, seek 
what is conformable to thy own nature, and strive toward this, even 
if it brings no reputation; for every man is allowed to seek his own 
good. 

< 0 ^ Consider whence each thing has come, and of what it consists, 
and into what it changes, and what kind of a thing it will be when it 
has changed, and that it will sustain no harm. 

[If any have offended against thee, consider first]: What is 
my relation to men, and that we are made for one another; and in an- 
other respect, I was made to be set over them, as a ram over the flock 
or a bull over the herd. But examine the matter from first principles, 
from this: If all things are not mere atoms, it is nature which orders 
all things ; if this is so, the inferior things exist for the sake of the 
superior, and these for the sake of one another. 

Second, consider what kind of men they are at table, in bed, and 

429 



Marcus Aurelius • 

so forth, and particularly, under what compulsions in req>ect of 
opinions th^ are; and as to their acts, consider with what pride they 
do what diey do. 

Third, that if men do rightly what they do, we oug^t not to be dis- 
fdeased; but if they do not right, it is plain that they do. so involun- 
tarily and in ignorance. For as every soul is unwillin^y deprived of 
the truth, so also is it unwillingly deprived of the power of behaving 
to each man according to his deserts. Accordingly men are pained 
when they are called unjust, imgrateful and greedy, and, in a word,, 
wrong-doers to their nei^bors. ' '' 

Fourth, consider that thou also doest many things wrong, and\ 
that thou art a man like others; and even if thou dost abstain from) 
certain faults, still thou hast the disposition to commit them, thougjh 
either through cowardice or concern about reputation or some such 
mean motive thou dost abstain from such faults. 

Fifth, consider that thou dost not even understand whether men 
are doing wrong or not, for many things are done with a certain 
reference to circumstances. And, in short, a man must learn a great 
deal to enable him to pass a correct judgment on another man’s acts. 

Sixth, consider when thou art much vexed or grieved that man’s 
life is only a moment imd, after a short time, we are all laid out 
dead. 

Seventh, that it is not men’s acts which disturb us, for those acts 
have their foundation in men’s ruling principles, but it is our own 
opinions which disturb us. Take away those opinions, then, and re- 
solve to dismiss thy judgment about an act as if it were something 
grmvous, and thy anger is gone. How, then, shall I take away these 
o|^ons? By reflecting that no wrongful act of another brings shame 
on thee; for unless that which is shameful is alone bad, thou also must 
of necessity do many things wrong, and become a robber and every- 
thing else. 

Pighth, consider how much more pain is brou^t on us by the 
anger and vexation caused by such acts than by the acts thmnselvra 
at which we are angry" and vexed. 

Ninth, consider that a good disposition is intincible, if it be gmu- 
ine, and not an affected smile and acting a part. For what will the 
most violent man do to tihee, if thou condnuest to be of a kind-dis- 
posMion toward him, and if, as (^>portunity offers, thou gently ad- 
monishest him and calmly correctest his errem at the very time when 
he is tiyif^ to do ffiee harm, saying. Not so, my dflld; we are ctm- 

430 



Mei»tations 

stituted 1^ nature for something else; I shall certainly not be injured, 
but thou art injuring thyself, my child. Show him with gmde tact ainl 
by general principles that diis is so, and that even bees do not do 
as he does, nor any animals whidi are formed by nature to be gre- 
garious. And thou must do this neither with any double meaning nor 
in the way of reproach, but affectionately and without any rancor in 
thy soul; and not as if thou wert lecturing him, nor yet that any 
bystander may admire, but either when he is alone or if others are 
present. . . . 

Remember these nine rules as if thou hadst received them as a 
^ firom the Muses, and begin at last to be a man while thou 
livest. But thou must equally avoid flattering men and being vexed 
at them, for both are unsocial and lead to harm. And let this truth 
be present to thee in the excitement of anger: that to be moved by 
passion is not manly, but that mildness and gentleness, as they are 
more agreeable to human nature, so also are they more manly; 
and he who possesses these qualities possesses strength, nerves and 
courage, and not the man who is sulqect to fits of passion and dis- 
content. For in the same degree in which a man’s mind is nearer to 
freedom from all passion, in the same degree also is it nearer to 
strength; and as the sense of pain is a characteristic of weakness, so 
also is anger. For he who yields to pain and he who yields to anger, 
both are wounded and boA submit. 

But if thou wilt, receive also a tenth present from the leader of 
the Moses, Apollo, and it is this: that to expect bad men not to do 
wrong is madaess, for he who expects this desires an impossibility. 
But to allow men to behave so to others and to expect them not to 
do thee any wrong is irrational and tyrannical. 

There are four principal aberrations of the superior faculty 
against which thou shouldst be constantly on thy guard, and when 
thou hast detected them, thou shouldst wipe them out and say on 
each occasion thus: this thought is not necessary; this tends to- destroy 
social union; this which thou art going to say comes not from the 
real flioug^ts, for thou shouldst consider it among file most absurd at 
things for man not to speak from his real thoughts. But the fourth 
is when thou shalt reproach thyself for anything, for this is an evi- 
dence df the diviner part within thee being overpowered and yield- 
ing to the less htmoral^ and to the perishaUe part, the bocty, and to 
its gross pleasures. 

^ Thy aerial part and all the fiery parts which are min^ in 

431 



Marcus Aurelius 

ihee, thou^ by nature they have an upward tendency, still in obecti* 
ence to the disposition of the universe they are overpowered here 
in the compound mass the body. And also the whole of the earthly 
part in thee and the watery, though their tendency is downward, 
still are raised up and occupy a position which is not their natural 
one. In this manner then the elemental parts obey the universal, 
for when they have been fixed in any place natur^y they remain 
there until again the universal shall sound the signal for dissolu- 
tion. Is it not then strange that thy intelligept part only should be/ 
disobedient and discontented with its own place? And yet no force is I 
imposed on it, but only those things which are conformable to its 
nature; still it does not submit, but is carried in the opposite direc- 
tion. For the movement toward injustice and intemperance, and to 
anger and grief and fear is nothing else than the act of one who 
deviates from nature. And also when the ruling faculty is discontented 
with anything that happens, then too it deserts its post, for it is con- 
stituted for piety and reverence toward the gods no less than for 
justice. For these qualities also are comprehended under the ge- 
neric term of contentment with the constitution of things, and in- 
deed they are prior to acts of justice. 

He who has not one and always the same object in life cannot 
be one and the same all through his life. But what 1 have said is not 
enough, unless this also is added: what this object ought to be. For 
as there is not the same opinion about all the things which in some 
way or other are considered by the majority to be good, but only about 
some certain things, that is, things which concern the common in- 
terest; so also oug^t we to propose to ourselves an object which shall 
be of a common kind, social and political. For he who directs all 
bis own efforts to this object will make all his acts alike and thus 
will always be the same. 

Think of the country mouse and of the town mouse, and of 
the alarm and trepidation of the town mouse. . . . 

Tbe Pythagoreans bid us in the morning look to the heavens 
that we may be reminded of those bodies which Continu^y do the 
same things and in the same manner perform their work, and also 
be reminded of their purity and nudi^. For there is no veil over a 
star. ... 

Mi^Neitiier in writing nor in reading wilt thou be able to lay 
down rules fcr others before thou shalt have first learned to obey 
rules thyself. Much more is this so in life. . . . 

432 



Meditations 

To look for the fig in winter is a madman’s act; such is he who 
looks for his child when it is no longer allowed. 

When a man kisses his diild, said Epictetus, he should whisper 
to himself, “Tomorrow perchance thou wilt die.” But those are words 
of bad omen. “No word is a word of bad omen,” said Epictetus, 
“which expresses any work of nature; or if it is so, it is also a word 
of bad omen to speak of the ears of com being reaped.” 

The unripe grape, the ripe bunch, the dried grape — all are 
changes, not into nothing, but into something which exists not yet. 

No man can rob us of our free will. 

Epictetus also said, a man must discover an art or rules with 
respect to ^ving his assent; and in respect to his movements he 
must be careful that they be made with regard to circumstances, that 
they be consistent with social interests, that they have regard to the 
value of the object; and as to sensual desire, he should altogether 
keep away from it; and as to avoidance [aversion] he should not 
show it with respect to any of the things which are not in our 
power. 

The dispute then, he said, is not about any common matter, 
but about being mad or not. 

Socrates used to say. What do you want: souls of rational 
men or irrational? Souls of rational men. Of what rational men: 
sound or unsound? Sound. Why then do you not seek for them? 
Because we have them. Why then do you fight and quarrel? 


XII 

A LL THOSE THINGS at whlch thou wishest to arrive by a circuitous 
J\, road thou canst have now if thou dost not refuse them to thy- 
self. And this means, if thou wilt take no notice of all the past, and 
trust the future to providence, and direct the present only conform- 
ably to piety and justice. Conformably to piety, that thou mayest be 
content with the lot which b assigned to thee, for nature designed it 
for thee and thee for it. Conformably to justice, that thou mayest 
always speak the truth freely and without disguise, and do the 
things which are agreeable to law and according to the worth of 
each. And let neither another man’s wickedness hinder th«, nor 
opinion, nor voice, nor yet the sensations of the poor fledi which has 
grown about thee; for the passive part will look to this. If then, what- 

433 



Marcus AureUus 

ever the tune may be when thou shalt be near to thy departure, 
neglecting everything else, thou shalt respect only diy rulhig faculty 
and the divinity within thee, and if thou shalt be afraid not because 
thou must some time cease to live, but if thou shalt fear never to 
have begun to live according to nature, then thou wilt be a man 
worthy of the universe which has produced thee, and thou wilt 
cease to be a stranger in Ay native land, and to wonder at things 
which happen daily as if they were someAing unexpected, and to be 
dependent on Ais or Aat. 

<«§God sees Ae minds [ruling principfed] of all men bared of 
Ae material vesture and rind and impurities. For wiA his intellec- 
Aal part alone he touches Ae intelligence only which has flowed and 
been derived from himself into Aese bodies. And if Aou also usest 
Ayself to do Ais, Aou wilt rid Ayself of much trouble. For he who 
regards not Ae poor fleA which envelops him surely will not trouble 
himself by looking after raiment and dwelling and fame and such 
externals and show. 

<«§The Aings are Aree of which Aou art composed, a little 
body, a little breaA [life], intelligence. Of Aese Ae first two are 
thine, so far as it is Ay duty to take care of Aem; but Ae third 
alone is properly Aine. Therefore, if Aon Aalt separate from Ayself, 
Aat is, from Ay understanding, whatever oAers do or say, and 
whatever Aou hast done or said Ayself, and whatever future things 
trouble Aee because Aey may happen, and whatever in Ae body 
which envelops Aee, or in Ae breaA [life], which is by nature 
associated wiA Ae body, is attached to Aee independent of Ay 
will, and whatever Ae external circumfluent vortex whirls round, so 
that, the intellectual power exempt from Ae things of fate can live 
pure and free by itself, doing what is just and accepting what hap- 
pens and saying Ae truA: if Aou wilt separate, I say, from Ais 
ruling faculty Ae Aings which are attached to it by Ae impressions 
of sense, and Ae things of Ane to come and of time Aat is past, 
and wilt make Ayself like Empedocles* sfAere: 

All round, cand in its joyous rest reposing; 

and if Aou Aalt strive to live only what is really Ay life, Aat is, 
Ae presmit, Aen thou wilt be able to pass Aat portion of life whiA 
fwmatnit for Aee up to the Ane of Ay deaA, free from perturba- 
tiftfiB, nobly, and obedient to Ay own spirit that is wiflmi thee. 

I have often wondered how it is Aat every man loves himself 



Meditations 

more &an all the rest of men, but yet sets less value on Ms own 
opinion of himself than on the opinion of others. If then a god ot a 
wise teacher should present himself to a man and bid him to thinlc 
of nothing and to design nothing wMch he would not express as soon 
as he conceived H, he could not endure it even for a single day. 
So much more respect have we to what our neighbors shall think 
of us than to what we shall think of ourselves. 

How can it be that the gods, after having arranged all tMngs 
well and benevolently for mankind, have overlooked tMs alone: 
that some men and very good men, and men who, as we may say, 
have had most communion with the divinity, and through pious acts 
and religious observances have been most intimate with the divinity, 
when they have once died should never exist again, but should 
completely extinguished? 

But if this is so, be assured that if it ou^t to have been otherwise, 
the gods would have done it. For if it were just, it would also be 
possible; and if it were according to nature, nature would have had 
it so. But because it is not so, if in fact it is not so, be thou convinced 
that it ought not to have been so; for thou seest even of thyself that 
in this inquiry thou art disputing with the deity; and we should 
not thus dispute with the gods, unless they were most excellent and 
most just, but if this is so, they would not have allowed anything 
in the ordering of the universe to be neglected unjustly and irration- 
ally. 

Practice thyself even in the things wMch thou despairest of 
accomplishing. For even the left hand, wMch is ineffectual for all 
other thin gs for want of practice, holds the bridle more vigoroudy 
tile right hand; for it has been practiced in this. . . . 

With respect to that which happens conformably to nature, we 
ought to blame neither gods, for they do nothing wrong either vol- 
untarily or unvoluntarily, nor men, for they do nothing wrong ex- 
cept involuntarily. Consequently we should blame nobody. 

How ridiculous and what a stranger he is who is surprised at 
anything which happens in life! 

Either there is a fatal necessity and invincible order, or a kind 
providenpe, or a confusion without a purpose and without a director. 
If then there is an invincible necesa^, why dost thou resist? But 
if there is a providence wMch allows itself to be propitiated, make 
thyself worthy of the help the diidnity. But if thwe is a confusum 
without a governor, be content tiiat in such a tempest thou hast in 

435 . 



Marcus Aurelius 

thyself a cert^ ruling intelligence. And even if the tempest carry 
thee away, let it carry away the poor flesh, the poor breath, every* 
thing else; for the intelligence at least it will not carry away. 

Does the light of the lamp shine without losing its splendor 
until it is extinguished; and shall the truth which is in thee and jus- 
tice and temperance be extinguished before thy death? 

When a man has presented the appearance of having done 
wrong, say. How then do I know if this is a wrongful act? And 
even ft he has done wrong, how do I knq^.that he has not con- 
demned himself? And so this is like tearing his own face. Consider f 
that he who woidd not have the bad man do wrong is like the man 
who would not have the fig tree bear juice in the figs, and infants cry, \ 
and horses neig^, and whatever else must of necessity be. For what 
must a man do who has such a character? If then thou art irritable, 
cure this man’s disposition. 

If it is not right, do not do it; if it is not true, do not say it. 

<«^In everything always observe what the thing is which pro- 
duces for thee an appearance, and resolve it by dividing it into the 
formal, the material, the purpose and the time within which it must 
end. 

Perceive at last that thou hast in thee something better and 
more divine than the things which cause the various effects, and, as 
it were, pull thee by the strings. What is there now in my mind? Is it 
fear, or suspicion, or desire, or anything of the kind? 

First, do nothing inconsiderately, nor without a purpose. Sec- 
ond, make thy acts refer to nothing else than to a social end. 

Consider that before long thou wilt be nobody and nowhere, 
nor will any of the things exist which thou now seest, nor any of 
those who are now living. For all things are formed by nature to 
change and be turned and to perish in order that other things in 
continuous succession may exist. 

Consider that everything is opinion, and opinion is in thy 
power. Take away then, when thou choosest, thy opinion, and like 
a mariner who has doubled the promontory, thou wilt find calm, 
everything stable and a waveless bay. 

Any one activity, whatever it may be, when it has ceased at 
its pn^r time, suffers no evil because it has ceased; nor he who 
has done this act, does he suffer any evil for this reason that the act 
has cea^. In like manner then the whole which consists of all the 
acts, vdiwh is our life, if it cease at its proper time, suffers no evil 

436 



Meditations 

for the reason that it has ceased; nor he who has terminated this se- 
ries at the proper time, has he been ill dealt with. But nature fixes 
the proper time and the limit, sometimes as in old age the peculiar 
nature of man, but always the universal nature, by the change of 
whose parts the whole universe continues ever young and perfect. 
And everything which is useful to the universal is always good and 
in season. Therefore the terminafion of life for every man is no 
evil, because neither is it shameful, since it is both independent of 
the will and not opposed to the general interest, but it is good, 
since it is seasonable and profitable to and congruent with the uni- 
versal. For thus too he is moved by the deity who is moved in the 
same manner with the deity and moved toward the same things in 
his mind. 

These three principles thou must have in readiness. In the 
things which thou doest, do nothing either inconsiderately or other- 
wise than as justice herself would act; but with respect to what may 
happen to thee from without, consider that it happens either by 
chance or according to pro^ddence, and thou must neither blame 
chance nor accuse providence. Second, consider what every being 
is from the seed to the time of its receiving a soul, and from the 
reception of a soul to the giving back of the same, and of what 

solved. Third, if Aou shouldst suddenly be raised up above the 
earth, and shouldst look down on human beings, and observe how 
great the variety of them is, and at the same time also shouldst see 
at a glance how great is the number of beings who dwell all around 
in the air and the ether, consider that as often as thou shouldst be 
raised up, thou wouldst see the same things, sameness of form and 
shortness of duration. Are these things to be proud of? 

<«^Cast away opinion; thou art saved. Who then hinders thee 
from casting it away? 

When thou art troubled about anything, thou hast forgotten 
this: that all things happen according to the universal naturd; and 
forgotten this: that a man’s wrongful act is nothing to thee; and fur- 
ther thou hast forgotten this: that everything which happens, al- 
ways happened so and will happen so, and now happens so every- 
where; for^tten this, too: how close is the kinship between a 
and the whote human race, for it is a community, not of a Uttle 
blood or seed, but of intelligence. And thou hast forgotten 
that every man’s intelligence is a god, and is an efflux of the deity; and 

437 



Marcus Aurelms 

forgotten ttus: tbat nothing is a man’s own, but that his chSd and 
his body and his vaj soul came from the deity; forgotten this: that 
everything is ojmon; and lastly thou hast forgotten that every man 
lives the present time only, and loses only this. 

Constantly bring to thy recollection those who have com- 
plained greatly about anything, those who have been most con- 
spicuous by the greatest fame or misfortunes or enmities or fortunes 
of aay kind; then think where are they all now? Smoke and ash 
and a tale, or not even a tale. And let there present to thy mind 
also everything of this sort how Fabius CatiHinus lived in the coim-f 
try, and Lucius Luprus in his gardens, and Stertinius at Baiae,^ 
and Uberius at Capri, and Velius Rufus at Velia; and think of the ‘i 
eager pursmt of anything jomed with pride; and how worthless every- '• 
thing is after which men violently strain; and how much more philo- . 
sophical it is for a man in the opportunities presented to him to 
show himself just, temperate, obedient to the gods, rmd to do this 
with all simplicity; for the pride which is proud of its want of pride 
is the most intolerable of all. 

To those who ask. Where hast thou seen the gods, or how 
dost thou comprehend that they exist and so worshipest them? I 
answer, in the first place, they may be seen even with the eyes; in 
the second place, ndther have I seen even my own soul and yet I 
honor it. Thus then with respect to the gods, from what I constantly 
experience of their power, from this I comprehended that they exist 
and I venerate them. 

<«^The safety of life is this: to examine everything all through, 
what it is itself, what is its material, what the formal part; with all 
thy soul to do justice and to say the truth. What remains except to 
mijoy life by joining one good thing to another so as not to leave 
even the smallest intervals between? 

There is one li^t of the sun, though it is interrupted by walls, 
moimtains and other thmgs infini te. There is one common substance, 
tiiough it is distributed among countless bodies which have their 
several qualities. There is one soul, though it is tiistributed among 
infinite natures and individual circumscriptions or individuals. There 
is one intelligmit soul, though it seems to be divided. Now, in fire 
titinga vriiich have been mentioned, all the other parts, such as those 
vriiich are air and matter, are without sensation and have no fdlow- 
ship, and yet even these parts the intelligmit {vindple hdds together, 
and tile gravitation toward tiie same. But int^ect in a pecufiar man- 

438 



Meditations 

ner tends to fliat wMdi is of the same Idnd and combines nridi it, 
and the feeling for communion is not interrupted. 

^ What dost thou wish? To continue to exist? Well, dost thou 
wish to have sensadm? movements? growth? And then a gain to 
cease to grow? to use thy speech? to think? What is there of all 
these things which seem to thee worth desiring? But if it is easy to 
set little value on all these things, turn to that which remains, which 
is to follow reason and God. But it is inconsistent with hnnnrin g 
reason and God to be troubled, because by death a man will be 
deprived of the other things. 

<41^ How small a part of the boundless and unfathomable time 
is assigned to every man! For it is very soon swallowed up in the 
eternal. And how small a part of the whole substance! And how 
small a part of the universal soul! And on what a small clod of the 
whole earth thou creepest! Reflecting on all this consider nothing to 
be great, except to act as thy nature leads thee, and to endure that 
which the common nature brings. 

How does the ruling facul^ make use of itself? For all lies 
in this. Everything else, whether it is in the power of thy will or not, 
is only lifeless ashes and smoke. 

««^This reflection is most adapted to move us to contempt of 
death: that even those who think pleasure to be a good and pain 
an evil still have despised it. 

The man to whom that only is good which comes in due sea- 
son, and to whom it is the same thing whether he has done more or 
fewer acts conformable to right reason, and to whom it makes no 
difference whether he contemplates the world for a longer or a shortm 
time — ^for this man neither is death a terrible thing. 

<•1 Man, thou hast been a citizen in this great state, the world; 
what difference does it make to thee whether for five years or three? 
For that which is conformable to the laws is just for all. Where is 
the hardship then, if no tyrant nor yet an unjust judge sends thee 
aWay from the state, but nature who brought thee into it? The same 
as if an official who has employed an actor dismisses him from tiie 
stage. “But I have not finished the five acts, (mly three of them.” 
Thou sayest well, but in life the three acts are the whole drama; for 
what ifliall be a complete drama is determined by IBm who was 
once tile cause of its cmnposition, and now of its dissolution; but 
thou art the cause of neitiim. Depart thmi satisfied, for He also who 
relmums thee is satisfied. 


439 








W HEN DOCTOR DONNE began his Ash Wednesday sennon in 
Whitehall in 1631, King Charles I remarked that the dean 
of St. Paul’s was so haggard that he looked as if he were 
preaching his own funeral sermon. Actually, Donne, who had risen 
from a sick-bed to preach before the coint, had only a little more 
than a month to live. Yet on that day in February, he enthralled his 
audience as he had always done before, preacl^g eloquently his 
last sermon, entitled “Death’s Duel.” Donne’s theme of victory over 
death was thus dramatically demonstrated, as he employed the power 
and richness of speech that have made him famous the world over 
as the poet John Donne. 

When we think of Donne, we must remind ourselves of two quite 
distinct personalities: of the witty young poet of the years 1590- 
1600, who was known to the gay London court of Queen Elizabeth 
as Jack Donne; and of the sober, eloquent preacher, who was known 
to his parishioners as Doctor Donne of St. Paul’s. 

Actually, these two sides of his personality blended in his poetry 
and sermons. It is curious to discover, for instance, the theme of 
death and decay in a passionate love lyric; yet in poems like “The 
Relic” and “The Funeral,” young Donne wooed his lady, as it were, 
with a skull in his hand and a reminder of the vanity of earthly 
beauty on his lips. His sermons, likewise, ccmtain colorful poe^ 
symbols and intricate rhythmic patterns that help to embelli^ his 
recurrent theme of the inevitability of death and the possibility of 
salvation. 

“Death’s Duel” was heard by an audience that was well versed m 
sermons. They were sophisticated members of the court, who de- 
listed in fdlowing the threads of Donne’s ingenious ars®e»t. We 
are told that, as they heard the words of their dying mimster, they 
thouSt erf him as actually living out his message of Christian victory 
over death. 


443 




John Donne, after a painting by Marcus Gheeraerts. 

Yet althou^ the sermon was highly dramatic, a casual readmr 
mi^t never realize, from tiie text itself, that it was preached by a 
man who knew that he was dying. John Donne was not one to ro- 
manticize or even emphasize his position. When we become aware 
of the actual drcumstances, however, we see the sermon as more 
than a supreme work of art; we see it as an inspiring example of 
Ouistian living and dying. 

Donne’s last sermon is but one proof of his courage in the face of 
The dean also had his statue made brfore he di^; he posed 
for it in his study, wraped in a winding sheet, with his feet on a 
funeral um. This strange statue was placed, after his deatii, in St. 
Paul’s* 

AB Ms life, Jdm Donne both feared and was fasdn^ by death. 
He gave utterance to poems on tiiis theme that were hig^y comi^ 

444 


and remarkable for their primitive, yet eloquent phrasing. The world 
has never forgotten such lines as “Death, be not proud . . or “Go 
and catch a falling star. . . .** When his own death came, Donne 
had tile courage to meet it directly, exerting himself to the last to 
show how faith can conquer the last fear. 


445 






Psalm Lxvra: 20 

And unto God the Lord, belong the issues of death {from death). 

B uildings stand by the benefit of their foundations that sustain 
' them, support them; and of their buttresses that comprehend 
them, embrace them; and of their contignations * that knit and unite 
them. The foundation suffers them not to sink; the buttresses suffer 
them not to swerve; the contignation and knitting suffer them not to 
cleave. The body of our building is in the former part of this verse; 
it is this; He that is our God is the God of salvation; ad salutes, of 
salvations in the plural, so it is in the original; the God that ^ves us 
spiritual and temporal salvation too. But of this building, the founda- 
tion, the buttresses, the contignation are in this part of the verse, 
which constitutes our text, and in the three diverse acceptations of 
the words amongst our expositors. Unto God the Lord belong the 
issues of death. 

For, first, the foundation of this building (that our God is the God 
of all salvation) is laid in this. That unto this God the Lord belong 
the issues of death; that is, it is His power to give us an issue and 
deliverance, even then when we are brought to the jaws and teeth 
of death, and to the lips of that whirlpool, the grave. And so in this 
acceptation, this exitus mortis, this issue of death is liberatio & morte, 
a deliverance from death; and this is the most obvious and most 
ordinary acceptation of these words, and that uptm which our trans- 
lation lays hold, the issues from death. 

And then, secondly, the buttresses that comprehend and settle this 
building (that He that is our God is the God of salvation) are thus 
raised; Unto God the Lord belong the issues of de^, that is, the 
disposition and manner of OUT death, what kind of issue and trans- 
migration we shall have out of this world, whether prepared os sud- 
den, wh^her tdolent or natural, whether m our perfect senses, or 
* Frameworks of beams 


447 



John Donne 

shaked and disordered by sickness. Th^’e is no condemnation to be 
argued out of diat, no judgment to be made upon that, for howsoever 
they die, precious in His sight is the death of His saints, and with 
Him are the issues of death, the ways of our departing out of this life 
are in His hands. And so, in this sense of the words, this exitus mortis, 
die issue of death, is liberatio in morte, a deliverance in death; not 
that God will deliver us from dying, but that He will have a care of 
us in the hour of death, of what kind soever our passage be; and in 
this sense and acceptation of the words, the natural frame and con- 
texture doth well and pregnantly administer unto us. I 

And then, lastly, the contignation and knitting of this building 
(that He that is our God is the God of all salvation) consists in thisl 
Unto this God the Lord belong the issues of death, that is, that this\ 
God the Lord, having united and knit both natures in one, and being \ 
God, having also come into this world, in our flesh. He could have 
no other means to save us. He could have no other issue out of this 
world, nor return to His former gjory, but by death. And so in 
this sense, this exitus mortis, the issue of death, is Uberatio per mor- 
tem, a deliverance by death, by the death of this God our Lord, 
Christ Jesus. And this is Saint Augustine’s acceptation of the words, 
and that of those many and great persons that have adhered to him. 
In all these three lines then, we shall look upon these words: first, 
as the God of power, the Almighty Father rescues His servants from 
the jaws of death; and then, as the God of mercy, the glorious Son 
rescued us, by taking upon Himself the issue of death; and then 
(between these two), as the God of comfort, the Holy Ghost rescues 
us from all discomfort by His blessed impressions beforehand, that 
what manner of death soever be ordained for us, yet this exitus mortis 
shkil be introitus in vitam (our issue in death shall be an entrance 
into everlasting life). And these three considerations, our deliver- 
ance d morte, in morte, per mortem (from death, in death and by 
death) will abundantly do all the offices of the foundation, of the 
buttresses, of the contignation of this our building, that He that is 
our God, is the God of all salvation, because Unto this God the 
Lord belong the issues of death. 

Fhist, then, we consider this exitus mortis to be liberatio d morte; 
that with God the Lord care the issues of death, and therefore in all 
our deatlffi and deadly calamities of this life we may justly hope 
of a good issue from Him; and all our periods and transitions in this 
life me so many passages from death to death. Our very birth and 

448 



Last Sermon 

entrance into this life is exitus i morte, an issue from death; for in 
our mother’s womb we are dead so, that we do not know we live — 
not so mudi as we do in our sleep; neither is there any grave so close, 
or so putrid a prison, as the womb would be to us if we stayed in it 
beyond our time, or died there, before our time. In the grave the 
worms do not kill us: we breed and feed, and then kill those worms 
which we ourselves produced. ... Of our making in the womb 
David says, 7 am wonderfully and fearfully made, and Such knowl- 
edge is too excellent for me; for. Even that is the Lord’s doing, and 
it is wonderful in our eyes. Ipse fecit nos. It is He that hath made us, 
and not we ourselves, no, nor our parents either. Thy hands have 
made me and fashioned me round about, says Job; and (as the 
original word is) Thou hast taken pains about me; and yet says he. 
Thou dost destroy trie. Though I be the masterpiece of the greatest 
Master (man is so), yet if Thou do no more for me, if Thou leave 
me where Thou madest me, destruction will follow. The womb, which 
should be the house of life, becomes death itself if God leave us 
there. . . . 

But then this exitus d morte is but introitus in mortem; this issue, 
this deliverance from that death, the death of the womb, is an 
entrance, a delivering over to another death, the manifold deaths of 
this world. We have a winding sheet in our mother’s womb, that 
grows with us from our conception, and we come into the world 
wound up in that winding sheet; for we come to seek a grave. And 
as prisoners discharged of actions may lie for fees, so when the 
womb hath discharged us, yet we are bound to it by cords of flesh, 
by such a string that we caimot go thence, nor stay there. We cde- 
brate our own funeral with cries, even at our birfo, as though our 
threescore and ten years of life were spent in our mother’s labor, and 
our circle made up in the first point thereof. We beg one baptism 
with another, a sacrament of tears; and we come into a world that 
lasts many ages, but we last not. 

In domo Patris (says our blessed Saviour, speaking of heaven), 
multae mansiones. There are many mansions, divers and durable; so 
that if a man cannot possess a martyr’s house (he hath shed no 
blood for Christ), yet he may have a confessor’s; he hath been 
ready to j^orify God in the shedding of his blood. And if a woman 
cannot possess a vir^’s house (she hadi embraced the holy state of 
marriage), she may have a matron’s house; she hath broug^ 
forth and brought up childrmi in the fear of God. In domo Patris, in 

449 



John Donne 

my Father’s house, in heaven, there are many mansio ns, but here 
upcm earth the son of man hath not where to lay his head, says He 
Himself. . . . How then hath God given this earth to the sons of 
men? He hath g^ven them earth for their materials, to be made of 
earth; and he hath given them earth for their grave and sepulture, to 
return and resolve to earth; but not for their possession. Here we have 
no continuing city; nay, no cottage that continues; nay, no persons, 
no bodies that continue. Whatsoever moved Saint Jerome to call the 
journeys of the Israelites in the wilderness, mansions; the word (the 
word is nastmg) signifies but a journey, but » peregrination. Even th* 
Israel of God hath no mansions, but journeys, pilgrimages in this lifeL 
By that measure did Jacob measure his life to Pharaoh, the days m 
the years of my pilgrimage. \ 

And thou^ the apostle would not say Morimur, that whilst we are\ 
in the body we are dead, yet he says Peregnnamur, whilst we are in \ 
the body we are but in a pilgrimage and we are absent from the 
Lord. 

He might have said dead, for this whole world is but a universal 
churchyard, but one common grave; and the life and motion that the 
greatest persons have in it are but as the shaking of buried bodies in 
their graves by an earthquake. That which we call life is but heb- 
domada mortium, a week of deaths, seven days, seven periods of our 
life spent in dying; a dying seven times over, and there is an end. Our 
birth dies in infancy, and our infancy dies in youth, and youth and 
the rest die in age; and age also dies and determines all. Nor do all 
these, youth out of infancy or age out of youth, arise as a phoenix 
out of the ashes of another phoenix formerly dead, but as a wasp or 
a serpent out of carrion, or as a snake out of dung; our youth is worse 
than our infancy, and our age worse than our youth; our youth is 
hungry and thirsty after those sins which our infancy knew not, and 
our a^ is sorry and angry that it cannot pursue those sins which 
our youth did. And besides, all the way, so many deaths — ^that is, 
so many deadly calamities — accompany every condition and every 
period of this life that death itself would be an ease to them that 
suffer ffiem. Upon this sense does Job wish that "God had not given 
him an issue from the first death, from the womb: Wherefwe hast 
Thou brought me forth out of the womb? O that I had given up the 
ghost, and no eye had seen me; I should have been as though t had 
not been. . . . 

ifow much worse a death ffian death is this life, which good men 

450 



Last Sermon 

would so often change for death. But if my case be -Saint Paul’s 
case, QuotieUe morior (I die daily), that something heavier than 
death falls upon me every day; if my case be David’s case, Tota die 
mortificamur (all the day long we are lolled), that not only every 
day but every hour of the day something heavier than death faiu 
upon me; though that be true of me, Conceptus in peccatis (I was 
shapen in iniqui^) and in sin did my mother conceive me (there I 
died one death), though that be true of me, Ncaus filius ira, I was 
bom, not only the child of sin, but the child of the wrath of God for 
sin, which is a heavier death; yet Domini Domini sunt exitus mortis, 
with God the Lord are the issues of death. And after a Job and a 
Joseph and a Jeremy and a Daniel, I cannot doubt of a deliverance. 
And if no other deliverance conduce more to His glory and my good, 
yet. He hath the keys of death, and He can let me out at that door, 
that is, deliver me from the manifold deaths of this world, the omni 
die and the tota die, the every day’s death and every hour’s death, by 
that one death, the final dissolution of body and soul, the end of 
an. 

But then, is that the end of aU? Is that dissolution of body and 
soul the last death that the body shaU suffer? — ^for of spiritual ^aths 
we speak not now. It is not. Though this be exitus d morte, it is 
introitus in mortem; though it be an issue from the manifold deaths 
of this world, yet it is an entrance into the death of corruption and 
putrefaction and vermiculation and incineration and dispersion, in 
and from the grave, in which every dead man dies over again. It was 
a prerogative peculiar to Christ not to die this death, not to see cor- 
ruption. What gave Him this privilege? Not Joseph’s great proportions 
of gums and spices that might have preserved His body from cor- 
ruption and incineration longer than He needed it, longer than three 
days; but yet would not have done it forever. What preserved Him 
then? Did His exemption and freedom from orig^al sin preserve Him 
from this corruption and incineration? It is true that original sin hath 
induced this corruption and incineration upon us. If we had not sinned 
in Adam, mortality had not put on immortality (as the apostle 
speaks), nor corroption put on incorruption, but we had had our 
transmigration from this to the other world without any mortality, any 
corruption at all. But since Christ took sin upon Him, so far as made 
Him mortal. He had it so far too, as mi^t have made Him see this 
corruption and incineration, though He had no original sin in Him- 
self. What preserved Him then? 


451 



John Donne 

Did the hypostatical union of both natures, God and man, preserve 
His flesh from this corruption, this incineration? It is true that this 
was a most powerful embalming; to be embalmed with the divine 
nature itself, to be embalmed with eternity was able to preserve Him 
&om corruption and incineration forever. And He was embalmed so, 
embalmed with the divine nature, even in His body, as well as in 
His soul; for the Godhead, the divine nature, did not depart, but 
remained still united to His dead body in the grave. But yet for all 
this powerful embalming, this hypostatical union of both natures,, 
we see Christ did die; and for all this union which made Him God 
and man. He became no man, for the union of body and soul makesl. 
the man, and He, whose soul and body are separated by death, as\ 
long as that state lasts is (properly) no man. And therefore as in ^ 
Him the dissolution of body and soul was no dissolution of the hypo- \ 
statical union, so is there nothing that constrains us to say that 
though the flesh of Christ had seen corruption and incineration in 
the grave, this had been any dissolving of the hypostatical union; 
for the divine nature, the Godhead, might have remained with all 
the elements and principles of Christ’s body, as well as it did with 
tl» two constitutive parts of His person: His body and soul. This 
incorruption then was not in Joseph’s gums and spices; nor was it 
in Christ’s iimocency and exemption from original sin; nor was it 
(that is, it is not necessary to say it was) in the hypostatical union. 
But this incorruptibleness of His flesh is most conveniently placed in 
that Non dabis, Thou wilt not suffer Thy Holy One to see corrup- 
tion. We look no further for causes or reasons in the mysteries of 
our rdi^on, but to the will and pleasure of God. Christ Himself 
linnted His inquisition in that: Ita est. Even so, Father, for so it 
seemed good in Thy sight. Christ’s body did not see corruption, there- 
fore, because God had decreed that it should not. The humble soul 
(and only the humble soul is the religious soul) rests himself upon 
God’s purposes and his decrees. . . . 

Now this which is so singularly peculiar to Him, that His flesh 
should not see corruptkm, at His second comkig. His coming to 
judgment, shall be extraded to all that are then alive. Their flesh 
shall not see corruption; because, as the apostle says (and says as 
a seoret, as a mystery). Behold I show you a mystery; we shcdl not 
dJ sleep — that is, not cemtinue in the state of the dead in the grave-^ 
but we shall all be changed. In an indant we shall have a dis- 
sdutkm, and in the same instant a redintegration, a recompacting 



Last Sermon 

of t^y and soul; and that shall be tndy a death and truly a resur- 
rection, but no sleeping, no corruption. But for us, who die now and 
sleep in the state of the dead, we must all pass this posdiume Hea th, 
this death after death, nay, this death after burial, this Ht(8«tr>h it jon 
after dissolution, this dea& of corruption and putrefaction, of ver- 
miculation and incineration, of dissolution and dispersion m and from 
the grave. One dieth at his full strength, being wholly at case, and in 
quiet, and another dies in the bitterness of his soul, and never eats 
with pleasure; but they lie down alike in the dust, and the worm 
covers them. The worm covers them in Job, and in Tsaiah it covers 
them, and is spread under them {the wwm is spread under thee, 
and the worm covers thee). There are the mats and the carpet that 
lie under; and there are the state and the canopy that hang over the 
greatest of the sons of men. Even those bodies that were the temples 
of the Holy Ghost come to this dilapidation, to ruin, to rubbish, to 
dust; even the Israel of the Lord and Jacob himself had no other 
specification, no other denomination but that: Vermis Jacob, Thou 
worm, Jacob. . . . Truly, the consideration of this posthume death, 
this death after burial, that after God, with whom are the issues of 
death, hath delivered me from the death of the womb by bringing me 
into the world, and from the manifold deaths of the world by laying 
me in the grave, I must die again, in an incineration of this flesh and 
in a dispersion of that dust; that all that monarch that spread over 
many nations alive must in his dust lie in a comer of that sheet of 
lead, and there but so long as the lead will last; and that private and 
retired man, who thought himself his own forever, and never came 
forth, must in his dust of the grave be published and (such are the 
revolutions of graves) be mingled in his dust with the dust of every 
hi^way and of every dunghill, and swallowed in every puddle and 
pond; this is the most inglorious wd contemptible vilificafion, the 
most deadly and peremptory nullification of man that we can con- 
sider. ... If we say. Can this dust live? perchance it cannot. It may 
be the mere dust of the earth which never did live, nor shall; it may 
be the dust of that man’s worms which did live, but shall no more; 
it may be the dust of another man that concerns not him of whom it 
is asked. This death of incineration, and dispersion is to natural 
reason the most irrecoverable death of all; and yet Domini Donurd 
sunt exitus mortis, Unto God the Lm^d belong the issues of death, 
and by recompacting this dust into the same body, and re-animating 
the same body with the same soul. He shall in a blessed and g^rious 

453 



John Donne 

resunrecdon ffve me such an issue from this death as shall never pass 
into any other death, but establish me in a life that shall last as long 
as the Lord of life Himself. And so have you that which belongs to 
the first acceptation of these words (Un/o God the Lord belong the 
issues of death), that though from the womb to the grave, and in the 
grave itself, we pass from death to death, yet, as Daniel speaks: The 
Lord our God is able to deliver us, and He will deliver us. 

And so we pass to our second accommodation of these words 
(Unto God the Lord belong the issues of death) that it belongs to 
God, and not to man, to pass a judgment upon us at oiur death, or to 
conclude a dereliction on God’s part, upon the manner thereof. . . I 

We comfort ourselves in the death of a friend, if it be testified; 
that he went away Uke a lamb — that is, not with any reluctation; . 
but God knows, that may have been accompanied with a dangerous 
damp and stupefaction and insensibility of his present state. Our 
blessed Saviour admitted colluctations with death, and a sadness even 
in His soul to death, and an agony even to a bloody sweat in His 
body, and expostulations with God, and exclamations upon the cross. 
He was a devout man * who, upon his deathbed, said, Septuaginta 
annis Domino servivisti, et mori times? Hast thou served a good 
Master threescore and ten years, and now art thou loath to go into 
His presence? Yet Hilarion was loath. He was a devout man (a 
hermit t) who said the day that he died. Cogitate hodie coepisse 
servire Domino, et hodie finiturum; Consider this to be the first 
day’s service that ever thou didst thy Master, to glorify Him in a 
Christianly and constant death; and, if thy first day be thy last day 
too, how soon dost thou come to receive thy wages. . . . Make no 
ill conclusion upon any man’s loathness to die. And then, upon vio* 
lent deaths inflicted, as upon malefactors, Christ Himseti hath for- 
bidden us by His own death to make any ill conclusion; for His 
own death had those impressions in it; He was reputed. He was 
executed as a malefactor, and no doubt many of them who concurred 
to His death did believe Him to be so. Of sudden deaths there are 
scarce examples, to be found in the Scriptiures, upon gpod men; for 
death in battle cannot be called sudden death. But God governs not 
by examples, but by rules; and therefore make no ill conclusions 
upon sudden death; nor upon distempers eitiier, though perchance 
accompanied with some words of <^dence and distrust in the 

*HUaikm 
t Bariaam 


454 



Last Sermon 

mercies of God. Hie tree lies as it falls, it is true; but yet it is not 
the last stroke that fells the tree; nor the last word, nor last g«»p 
that qualifies the soul. . . . Our critical day is not the very day of 
our death, but the whole course of our life. I thanir him who prays 
for me when my bell tolls; but I thank him much more who 
me or preaches to me or instructs me how to live; fac hoc et vives, 
there is my security; the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it, Do this 
and thou shalt live. But though 1 do it yet I shall die too, die a 
bodily, a natural death; but God never mentions, never seems to 
consider that death, the bodily, the natural death. God doth not say: 
Live well, and thou shalt die well; well — ^that means an easy, a quiet 
death. But live well here, and thou shalt live well forever. As the 
first part of a sentence pieces well with the last, and never respects, 
never hearkens after the parenthesis that comes between, so doth a 
good life here flow into an eternal hfe, without any consideration 
what manner of death we die. But whether the gate of my prison be 
opened with an oiled key (by a gentle and preparing siclmess) or 
the gate be hewed down by a violent death, or the gate be burnt 
down by a raging and frantic fever, a gate into heaven I shall have; for, 
from the Lord is the course of my life, and with God the Lord are 
the issues of death; and further we carry not this second acceptation 
of the words, as this issue of death is Uberatio in morte, God’s care 
that the soul be safe, what agony soever the body suffer in the hour 
of death; but pass to our third and last part; as this issue of death is 
Uberatio per mortem, a deliverance by the death of another, by the 
death of Christ. . . . 

. . . More cannot be said, than Christ Himself saith of Himself: 
These things Christ ought to suffer; He had no other way but by 
death. So then, this part of our sermon must necessarily be a passion 
sermon, since all His life was a continual passion, all our Lent may 
well be a continual Good Friday; Christ’s painful life took off none 
of the p ains of His death; He felt not the less th«i, for having felt 
so much before; nor will anything that shall be said beforp lessen, 
but rather enlarge your devotion to that which shall be said of His 
passion, at the time of the doe solemnization thereof. Christ bled not 
a drop the less at last, for having bled at HBs circumcision before, 
nor will you shed a tear the less then, if you shed some now. And 
thmefore be now content to consider with me how to this God the 
Lord belonged the issues of death. 

Thta God the Lord, the Lord of life, could die, is a strange ccm- 

455 



John Donne 

templadon; that the Red Sea could be dry; that the sun could stand 
still; that an oven could be seven times heated and not bum; that 
lions could be hungry and not bite, is strange, miraculously strange; 
but super-miraculous, that God could die! but that God would die 
is an exaltation of that; but, even of that also, it is a super-exaltation 
that God should die, must die; and nan exitus (saith Saint Augus- 
tine), God the Lord had no issue but by death, and oportuit pati 
(saith Christ Himself) all this Christ ought to suffer, was bound to 
suffer. . . . Dilectio fortis ut mors. Love is as strong as death; 
stronger; it drew in death, that naturally was not welcome. Si possibilei 
(saith Christ), If it be possible let this cup pass, when His love, ex4 
pressed in a former decree with His Father, had made it impossible.! 
Many waters quench not love; Christ tried many; He was baptized^ 
out of His love, and His love determined not there; He wept over 
Jerusalem out of His love, and His love determined not there; He 
mingled blood with water in His agony, and that determined not His 
love; He wept pure blood, all His blood, at all His eyes, at all His 
pores; in His flagellations and thorns; to the Lord our God belonged 
the issues of blood; and these expressed, but these did not quench 
His love. 

He would not spare, nay. He would not spare Himself; there was 
nothing more free, more voluntary, more spontaneous than the death 
of Christ; it is true, libere egit. He died voluntarily; but yet, when 
we consider the contract that had passed between His Father and 
Him, there was an oportuit, a kind of necessity upon Him; all this 
Christ ought to suffer. And when shall we date this obligation, 
this oportuit, this necessity, when shall we say it began? Certainly 
this decree by which Christ was to suffer all this was an eternal 
decree; and was there anything before that that was eternal? Infinite 
love, eternal love; be pleased to follow this home, and to consider 
it seriously, that whatever liberty we can conceive in Christ to die, 
or not to die, this necessity of dying, this decree is as eternal as 
that liberty; and yet how small a matter made He of this necessity 
and ^diis dying? Ffls Father calls it but a bruise, and but a bruising of 
His heel iThe serpent shall bruise his heel) and yet that was that the 
serpent i^uld practice and compass His death. Himself calls it but 
a baptism, as thou^ He were to be the better for it: I have a bap- 
tism to baptized with; and He was in pain till it was accom- 
plished; and yet this baptism was His death. The Holy Ghost calls it 
joy; (For the joy which wds set before Him He endured the cross) 

456 



Last Sermon 

was not a joy of Ifis reward after His passion, but a joy that 
filled Him even in the midst of those torments, and arose from them . 
When Christ calls His passion cdUcem, a cop, and no worse (Con ye 
drink of my cup), he speaks not odiously, not with detestation of it; 
indeed it was a cup; solus mundo, a health to all the world; and quid 
retribuem, says David, Whta shall I render unto the Lord? An- 
swer you with David, AccipUm ceUicem, I will take the cup of sal- 
vation. Take that, that cup of salvation his passion, if not into your 
present imitation, yet into your present contemplation, and behold 
how that Lord who was God yet could die, wotdd die, must die for 
your salvation. . . . Our meditation of His death should be more 
visceral, and affect us more, because it is of a thing already done. 
The ancient Romans had a certain tenderness and detestation of 
the name of death; they would not name death, no, not in their 
wills; there they would not say. Si mem contingat, but Si quid hu- 
manitus contingat, not of or when I die, but when the course of 
nature is accomplished upon me. To us, that speak daily of the death 
of Christ (He was crucified, dead and buried), can the memory or 
the mention of our death be irksome or bitter? There are in Aese 
latter times, amongst us, that name death freely enough, and the 
death of God, but in blasphemous oaths and execrations. Miserable 
men, who shall therefore be said never to have named Jesus, be- 
cause ffiey have named Him too often; and therefore hear Jesus say, 
Nescivi vos, I never knew you; because they made themselves too 
familiar with Him. . . . 

And we are afraid to speak to the great men of this world of their 
death, but nourish in them a vain imaginadon of immortality and 
immutabili^. But Bonum est nobis esse Me (as Saint Peter said 
there): It is good to dwell here, in this consideration of His death, 
and therefore transfer we our tabernacle, our devotion, throu^ some 
of these steps whfeh God the Lord made to His issue of death, that 
day. 

Take in His whole day, from the hour that Christ ate the pass- 
over upon Thursday, to the hour in which He died the next day. 
Make this present day, that day in thy devotion, and consider what 
He did, and ranember what you have done. Before He instituted 
aiul celeterated the sacrament (which was after the eating of the 
passovw). He proceeded to die act of humility, to wash His dis- 
ciples* feet; evwi Peter’s, who for a while resisted Him. In thy prepa- 
ration to die btdy and blessed sacrameift. hast thou with a sincere hu- 

457 



John Donne 

mility sou^t a reconciliation with all the world, even with those who 
have been avose from it, and refused that reconciliation from thee? 
If so (and not else), thou hast spent that first part of this His 
last day, in a conformity with Him. After the sacrament. He spent 
the time till night in prayer, in preaching, in psalms. Hast thou con- 
sidered that a worthy receiving of the sacrament consists in a con- 
tinuation of holiness after, as well as in preparation before? If so, 
thou hast therein also conformed thyself to Him; so Christ spent 
His time till night. At night He went into the garden to pray, and 
He prayed prolixius; He spent much time iii |>rayer. How much? be- 1 
cause it is literally expressed that He prayed there three several I 
times, and that returning to His disciples after His first prayer, and \ 
finding them asleep, said. Could ye not watch with me one hour? It ' 
is collected that He spent three hours in prayer. 

I dare scarce ask thee whither thou wentest, or how thou dis- 
posedst of thyself, when it grew dark and after, last night. If that 
time were spent in a holy recommendation of thyself to God, and a 
submission of thy will to His; then it was spent in a conformity to 
Him. In that time, and in those prayers were His agony and bloody 
sweat. I will hope that thou didst pray; but not every ordinary and 
customary prayer, but prayer actually accompanied with shedding of 
tears, and ^positively, in a readiness to shed blood for His glory in 
necessary cases, puts thee into a conformity with Him. About mid- 
night He was taken and bound with a kiss. Art thou not too con- 
formable to Him in that? Is not that too literally, too exactly thy case? 
At midnight to have been taken, and bound with a kiss? From thence 
he was carried back to Jerusalem; first to Annas, then to Caiaphas, 
and (as late as it was) there He was examined, and buffeted, and 
delivered over to the custody of those officers, from whom He re- 
ceived all those irrisions and violences, the covering of His face, 
the s[Htting upon His face, the blasphemies of words and the smartness 
of blows which that gospel mentions. In which compass fell that 
galUdmum, that crowing of the cock, which called up Peter to his re- 
pentance. How thou passedst all that time last night, thou knowest. If 
thou didst anything then that needed Peter’s tears, and hast not shed 
them, let me be thy cock: do it now; now thy Master (in the un- 
worthmst oi His servants) looks back upon thee, do it now. Betimes 
in the morning, as soon as it was day, ^ Jews held a council in the 
lu^ priest’s house, and agreed upon their evidence against Him, and 
them carried Him to Pilate, who was to be His judge. Didst thou accuse 

458 



Last Sermon 

thyself when wakedst this morning, and wast thou ccmtent to 
admit even false accusations, that is, raUim: to suspect actions to 
have been sin which were not, than to smother and justify sudi as 
were truly sins? Then thou spentest that hour in confomuty to Him. 
Pilate found no evidence against Him; and therefore to ease himself, 
and to pass a compliment upon Herod, tetrarch of Galilee, who was 
at that time at Jerusalem (because Christ, being a Galilean, was of 
Herod’s jurisdiction), Pilate sent Him to Herod; and rather as a mad- 
man than a malefactor, Herod remanded Him with scorns to Pilate 
to proceed against Him; and this was about eight of the clock. Hast 
thou been content to come to this inquisition, this examination, this 
agitation, this cribration, this pursuit of thy conscience, to sift it, to 
follow it from the sins of thy youth to thy present sins, from the sins 
of thy bed to the sins of thy board, and from the substance to the 
circumstance of thy sins? 

That is time spent like thy Saviour’s. Pilate would have saved 
Christ by using the privilege of the day in His behalf, because that 
day one prisoner was to be delivered; but they chose Barabbas. He 
would have saved Him from death, by satisfying their fury, with 
infli rting other torments upon Him, scourging, and crowning with 
thorns, and loading Him with many scornful and ignominious con- 
tumelies; but this redeemed Him not; they pressed a crucifying. Hast 
thou gone about to redeem thy sin by fasting, by alms, by disciplines 
and mortifications, in the way of satisfaction to the justice of God? 
That will not serve, that is not the right way. We press an utter 
crucifying of that sin that governs thee, and that conforms thee to 
Christ. Toward noon Pilate gave judgment; and they made such 
haste to execution, as that by noon He was upon the cross. There 
now hangs that sacred body upon the cross, re-baptized in His own 
tears and sweat, and embalmed in His own blood alive. There are 
those bowels of compassion, which are so conspicuous, so manifested 
that you may see diem through His wounds. There those ^rious 
eyes grew faint in their fight, so the sun, ashamed to survive them, 
departed with his fight too. And there that Son of God, who was 
never from us, and yet had now come a new way unto us, in a^ 
suming our nature, delivers that soul which was never out of His 
Father’s into His Father’s hands, by a new way, a volimtary 

emission thereof; for though to this God our Lord belong these issues 
of death, so that, considered in His own contract. He must neces- 
sarily die; yet at no breach nor battery which they had made upon 

450 



John Donne 

His sacied body issues NSs soul, but emislt. He gave up the ^ost; 
and as Ood breathed a soul into the first Adam, so diis second Adam 
breadied His soul into God, into the hands of God. Ibere we leave 
you, in that Uessed dq)endency, to hang upon Him, that hangs upon 
die cross. Tbere bathe in His teats, there suck at His wounds, and 
lie down in peace in His grave, till He vouchsafe you a resurrection, 
and rm ascension into that kingdom which He hath purchased for 
yoa, with die inestimable price of His incorruptible blood. Amen. 


460 



OEDIPUS 
THE KING 

Sophocles 



Cast of Characters 

ft i • 


Oedipus, King of Thebes. 

Priest of Zeus. 

Creon, brother-4n-law of Oedipus. 

Chorus of Theban Elders. 

Leader of the Chorus. 

Tiresias, the blind prophet. 

JoCASTA, wife of Oedipus. 

Messenger, a shepherd from Corinth. 

Herdsman. 

Second Messenger. 

Antigone and Ismene, daughters of Oedipus and Jocasta. 
Attendants. 



HOME COURSE APPRECIATION 


E very spring, during the peacetime years of Athens’ greatest 
^ory, the city and its surrounding state of Attica celebrated 
the Feast of Dionysus by holding a great dramatic spectacle, 
rhe festival, which lasted five days, was both a reli^ous and an 
artistic event. It had its roots in the earliest ceremonies of Dionysus, 
who was a god of many moods. He is most familiar to us by his 
Latin name of Bacchus, god of wine and merriment; but in his larger 
character, he was god of all vegetation. It was natural that in fte 
spring the Greeks honored Dionysus as the divine promise of ever- 
lasting life. In some ways, his festival at the end of March was like 
the Christian festival of Easter, since the whole world mourned his 
death in autumn, but it was more closely bound to the ritual of spring 
sowing. The festival was a time of rejoicing in the god’s rebirth, and 
it was also a time for contemplating the perennial mysteries of life 
and death, and for symbolizing throu^ drama the universal order 
which surpasses human understanding. 

On the first day of the festival, an image of Dionysus was taken 
from the god’s temple, situated near the theater, to the god’s tradi- 
tional birthplace, not far from the city. Then, as the procession grew, 
it returned to Athens and replaced the image in the shrine. On the 
second day, a crowd of about 15,000 Athenians and visitors (mosfly 
mra) crowded into the Theater of Dionysus to see a group of plays 
based on some theme from the Greek religjon, whidi we refer to 
loosely as Clascal mythology. Three plays, called trilopes, were 
pven on each of tiie three succeeding days. Each trilogy was usually 
the work of a single writer. The trilogies were usually related to a 
central theme that was developed in an orderly way, and they were 
always tragic in nature. Fdlowing each trilogy, a fourth play was 
pvai to relieve the audience’s mind after the hours of contempl^ion 
induced by the tragedies. This fourth play, called a “sa^” {day, was 

463 




JH roUicldBig buiiesqae, usually quUe lewd, which parodied the themes 
of birth and regeneration developed in the tragedies. 

On the third and fourth days, odier trilogies or j^oups of plays 
were presmited, and on the fifA day, three or four comedies 1^ dif- 
ferent writers were enacted. After the last day of competition, prizes 
were awarded in the various categories to tiie best sing^ {days, and 
tile winning dramatists were honored even more highly than the 
diampion athletes at the Olympic Games. We do not know if Soph- 
odes won a prize with Oedipus the King, and indeed we can only 
guess the year 430 b.c. as Ae date of its presentation, but we do i 
know from classical criticism that this play was considered one of | 
the best products of those extraordinary Greek festivals. Aristotle, \ 
the great philosopher, chose Oedipus the King as the masterpiece of . 
Greek tragedy when he wrote his definitive treatise, the Poetics, to ex- 
plain the nature of dramatic art. 

WHAT IS TRAGEDY? 

ARISTOTLE HAS BROUGHT US close to an understanding of the term 
^ “tragedy,” though no man has yet satisfactorily defined it. The 
Greek philosopher gave us certain rules of thumb which help us to 
discuss the form of tragic plays in a meaningful way. 

Aristotle tells us that a tra^c hero must have the elements of 
ri^tful pride {hubris), which raise him above the common station 
of men. The tragic hero, then, is not “everyman”; he is a man who 
can arouse a certain awe in us. Oedipus is not a typical Athenian or 
Theban: he is a king, a ^eat prophet, the father of his people, a 
man who freed his ci^, Thebes, from the Sphinx by answering her 
“daiic riddles.” Yet pride can also be destructive. Tragedy, in defin- 
ing the grandeur of Ae hero, must also show the limits to which any 
man can go in confronting the gods. When Oedipus dares too much, 
he finds that even he — ^wise and strong as he is — ^is not the measure 
0 $ the universe; but because he did dare to exploit his power and 
wisdom to the full, his fall assumes profound meaning. 

The purpose of tiagedy, says Aristotle, is to create a purging (or 
catharsis) of the emotions, to allow us to perceive things in their 
natural order. To do this, the dramatist must arouse in us concomi- 
taot feelings of “fear and pi^.” Our fear wffl measure the heiglti of 
Oedipus’ heroic stature, because we will realize that be is stroi^r 
than we are. Our ^y will measure his fall, because we will realize, 
by the time tim drama is ended, that he is far wetdmr tiian we ever 



dieamed of being. It is impcntant that we feel this “fear uid fdty** 
at the same time; together they present the range of human great- 
ness ami misery. 

The philosopher also tells us that tragedy is an attempt to ^imitate 
an action,” which in tom follows the dictates of nature; hence, it is 
not open to question and doubt. What we see we accept as fact; we 
do not argue that things could have happened in any other way. In 
Sophocles’ play, we may think of the action as an attempt to answer 
a nddle or to solve a mystery; that mystery, though it proves com- 
plex, is interpreted first quite simjdy as: who killed Laius? In an- 
other sense, we can conceive of the action as an attempt to rid the 
city of the plague that has beset it. The play begns with the city in 
a woeful pUght; when it ends, the cause of that suffering is known 
and is driven out of the city gates. 

RELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY 

W E MUST REMEMBER that the ancient Greek religon had priests, 
but not preachers, in our sense of the word. It had temples, but 
not churches where men could discuss the ethics of the community. 
Religous worship was largely R matter of sacrifice and the placation 
of the gods; moral decisions and moral inquiries were left to phi- 
losophers and artists. The great spring festival shows the narrow 
range in which Greek religon and art operated. Primitive rites to 
Dionysos mtailed hymns sung by a chorus to the god; with time, a 
sin gle rhnrflcter was added, who conversed with the chorus; and 
finally, a whole cast of characters acted and spoke with the chram. 
The purpose of the plays was clearly to fulfill the need for brii^ng 
moral inquiiy directly to the people, in a form that they could under- 
stand and indeed participate in. 

Naturally, the audience was well awme of the themes of all tite 
plays that were presented, since these themes were drawn from my- 
cology. The Story of Oedipus, king of a city not far away from 
Athens, held nothing msw tor them. Greek tragedy did not dqjend 
on suMiense and j^t-unfoltfing for its effect, the way modem |uo- 
(rf the imag^natimi do. But what the {dot lacked by being 
compleMy known beforehand, it gained in its capacity to be relived 
by the wectators who had heard it told over and over again. 

was even more dynamic in tiie swtse that many ot- 
took part tat the chorus, and certainly titose who merdy watdied 
tat the great open-air amphitheater, with its backdrop rf the heavens 

465 



and die Grecian hills, fdte that the play was spealdng directly to them 
(Aout something that mattmed. Knowing beforehand that Oedipus 
had married his mother and killed his father just as the oracle of 
Apollo had predicted, they could fully appreciate the irony of Oedi- 
pus’ self-confidence, of his aloofness, of his over-protectiveness and 
later vindictiveness toward the citizens; they co^d appreciate Jo- 
casta’s attempts to thwart the inevitable and the Chorus’ platitudi- 
nous wavering between moments of hope and despair. 

Because the audience felt itself close to subject matter of the ^ 
plays, and indeed often participated in them, the drama assumed f 
the nature of a true ritual; it was not simply an intellectual enter- I 
tainment, and can be likened only to such C^stian productions as ! 
the morality plays or the passion plays. 

THE TRAGIC RHYTHM 

A RiSTOTLE HAS ALSO TOLD US that tragedy moves throu^ a pattern 
of enli^tenment which we can call “the tragic rhythm.” This 
rhythm consists of three phases: purpose, passion and perception. 

It is called a rhythm because it has an almost musical ordering, as 
opposed to a strictly lo^cal one. “Rhythm” is especially appropriate 
in discussing Greek tragedy, which itself depended so much on sing- 
ing and on masks and dancelike movements. 

In terms of the Aristotelean formula, what is Oedipus’ “purpose”? 
This purpose coincides with the theme of the play: to find the killer 
of Laius. It is during the formulation of this purpose that we begin 
to perceive the strength of Oedipus’ character. He says that he will 
not rest until Laius’ murderer is prosecuted, and so he sets out on his 
unguessed mission: to find himself. 

During Oedipus’ “passion,” we learn the other side of his char- 
acter. He loses his patience with Tiresias, the great blind prophet, 
and casts him out of the city, even though Tiresias has told him the 
truth. Oedipus further accuses his brother-in-law, Creon, of conspir- 
ing against him to seize power (even though Creon is far too cra% 
to act as radily as this). Fmally, he re^es the people of Thebes for 
being remiss in their duties and allowing the murderer of Laius to 
go n^unished. The grim humor of Oedipus’ pli^t works steadily 
toward resolution — and disaster. 

Oetfipus’ “perception” comes when the Hwdsman tdls him who 
be letfly is. He is not, as he had supposed, the stm of King Polybus 
of Cormtb; Pdybus had taken Ooiipus as his son when the Herds- 

466 




inan fouml him exposed on Mount (3dia(»x». Finalfy the trudi comes 
out: OecUpus was die son of King Laius, whcNoa he dew, and ol 
locasta, whom he married. Laius had eiqiosed him as an infant be* 
cause an mrade had warned Laius that own son would liM him. 
And so die orade was right after all, and die power of the gods is 
shown to be superior to man’s designing. 

■ .The force of Oedipus’ percepdon drives him to blind himself — an 
home act when one considers that he had previously blamed llresias 
for his “blindness.” This act brings one set of the symbols of the play 
to a dramatic condusion: the recurrent images of light and darkness, 

virion and failure of sight. Just as Oechpus was strong enough to 
call down the most dire curse on Laius’ killer, he is strong enough to 
bear it himsdf, once he learns that the killer is he. 

THE OTHER CHARACTERS 

A STRIKING FACET of Sophodes’ art is his amazing abihty to create 
^ realistic characters who constandy participate in Oedipus’ ac- 
tion, furthering its development. Tirerias, the prophet, is old and 
wise, yet he loses his patience with Oedipus when die king tries to 
mcert his will over the seer’s knowledge. His dialogue is filled with 
puns on the name Oedipus, which means in Greek “swollen foot” 
or “swellfoot.” Hence the many ironic allusions to “running away” 
from destiny. 

Hie Messenger is a comic figure, as he is in many Greek tragedies. 
He thinks he is bringing Oedipus good news when he tells him that 
Fofybiis is dead and Oedipus has been named King of Corindi, whidi 
Ik ctm' add to bis kingdom of Thebes. Yet this news also has an 
ireoK outoHne. 

, Jocasta is exceptionally well drawn. S3ie is the last great barrier 
. to Oeidpus’ understanding of himself. She tries every feminine device 
to turn lum aside from his pursuit of the murderer, and when the 
tndh is finally learned, she ruriies to her doom. The troth destroys 
Jocasta, who is not strong enou^ to bear the sin riie has unknow- 
ingly ctmunitted. AU her fenrmer mockery of oracles and her mote 
sid^ dirii^ef in the gods are turned back upon her. 

Qeon too is magni&»ntly portrayed. He is shrewd and calculat- 
yet he has Mormems rraources d pa^ue. When Oec^s 
libe#ei» him foolishly, he answers caln% and ratiriaa%, evmituaQy 
fapiq; back en his rister, Jocaria, for protection. In aao^ of So^- 

468 



0(^’ Antigone, this rational man, ne^ says what he 
isn’t sure of, fsdls into trouble himself when he tries to punish Oed> 
i^’ dau^ter, Antigone, for burying her brother. 

THE ROLE OF THE CHORUS 

The Chtmis is perhaps the hardest “character” to be griped by 
the modem sensibility. We are not used to the concept of many 
peofde speaking at the same time in a play. Yet the Chorus has an 
important function in Greek drama, aside from the fact that its per- 
fcnmance marked the very beginning of tiie theater. For the Chorus 
is used to register the responses of the normal thinking citizen — ^in 
fact, of the audience itself. 

At times, the Chorus asserts itself only through intuitive means, 
through platitudes and predictable reactions. At times, it provides 
an almost comic effect, when it weighs the words of the speakers 
and wavers between them. The Choms decides, for instance, that 
both Creon and Oedipus are wrong in their quarrel, though it has 
trusted Oedipus implicitly up to that point in the play. Yet because 
the QiOras possesses only human knowledge and Aat only in a col- 
lective way, it is sometimes wrong; the Chorus rejoices, for instance, 
when it hears the news of Polybus’ death and the coming of the 
Herdsman— events which actually prefigure Oedipus’ doom. 

TRAGEDY AND PATHOS 

P erhaps the best definition of what tragedy is, can be derived 
from a definition of what it is not. In English there are two words 
to describe a great misfortune. We say that an act is “pathetic” if it 
has resulted in a bad end, without any sense of the consequences on 
the part oi tiie actor. Hence, automobile accidents, deaths from 
lingering diseases or suicides are pathetic. In Oedipus the King, tiie 
death of Jocasta is pathetic because she has no knowledge of what 
she has dared, by which she can realize what she has lost; lacldng 
rerilience, die is furthermore incapable of suffering. 

Oedipus, cm the other hand, is great because he dared to say that 
he knew the will of the gods, that he knew who he was and that he 
would drive tiie plague from the taty. The riddle which he had an- 
swered to win the kingship <rf Thebra was this: “What goes on four 
legs m the momii^ on two at noon and on three in tiie evening?” 
Oed^s* answw was; “Man,” since he understood that the times 

469 





‘Do not try to be master in all things; for the maste^ 
whidi you won has not followed you through life. 


ai day were nwts^Km for childhood, maturity aud dd age. In a 
sense, Oe^os is the measure of the full man; thm is why his fall 
is “trajfo.** 

THE NATURE OF SOPHOCLES’ ART 

Sophodes, it must follow naturally, was a pious man. He believed 
in man’s adlity to perfect himself, to establish order and to rule 
wisely, but he also believed that the ultimate shape of things lay in 
the hands of the gods. In one sense, coidd i^alize Oedipus as 
a wise ruler and loving father; yet in ahbtter; he saw the Idng’^ 
limitations. 1 

The art of Sophocles and his predecessor, Aeschylus, is a basicallyi 
religious art. Ihese two poets attempted to answer, or to broaden, \ 
the concept of man’s power embodied in the two Homeric poems, ' 
the Iliad and the Odyssey. In these poems, Achilles and Odysseus, 
the heroes, constandy use themselves as the most reliable sources of 
knowledge in a basically hostile world. Order in them came from 
within. Not that Homer ignored the role of the gods; far from it. Yet 
the Greeks had come, by Sophocles’ time, to interpret sacrifice and 
worship as minimum essentials, as double-safety checks to one’s own 
reason. It was to combat this irreli^ous spirit and to imbue the 
people with an ideal of man (however restricted his knowledge) that 
Sophocles wrote his great dramas., 

THE LIFE OF SOPHOCLES 

S ophocles wrote many plays (some scholars say as many as 
130), and was very successful in the dramatic competitions, win- 
ning at least twenty times. Aside from these plays, we know little 
about him, except that he was “wise and beautiful” (which, inci- 
dentally, is vidiat the name Sophocles means in Greek), and also 
that he was ridi. Bom about 497 b.c. at Colonus, near Athens, a 
town which he was to immortalize in his last great play, Oedipus at 
Cohmts, Sophodes lived for the most part in the Attic capital, where 
he studied and engaged in sports. Legend says.that he celebrated 
the Greek victory over the Persians at Salamis in 480 b.c. with dance 
and choral song. 

When he was thirty, Sophocles took his first prize in dramatic 
compotitimi, winning out over the earlier perennial champimi, Aes- 
chylus. We do not know which play of his won. Later in his life, he 
also competed successfully against the youthful and rdteDious Eurip- 

472 



ides. We know too that he served In die Athenian army and rose 
to the ra^ at general. He appears to have been happily married, 
and of his many children, one became a dramatist tmd 
against him. He lived to a great age, dying in his nineties in 405 b.c. 

Sophocles lived during the peak of Athens’ greatness, after the 
victories against the Persians, and he died during the Peloponnesian 
War, just one year before Adiens surrendered to Sparta. In fart, the 
Spartans were besieging the city at the time erf Ms death, and when 
they heard that Sophex;les had died, they lifted the siege to allow 
the grand old poet to be buried in the sacred ground of his native 
village. 


THE FLOWER OF SOPHOCLES’ ART 

T TNFORTUNATELY, Only seven plays of Sophocles have survived 
in full. Others are known merely by report or by scattered frag- 
ments or quotations. His other works include two plays wMch carry 
on various members of the cast of Oedipus the King: they are Oed- 
ipus at Colonus and Antigone. His other four plays are: Ajax, The 
Traefuniae, Electra and Philoctetes. 

Of these plays, Oedipus at Colonus is perhaps the most interesting 
in connection with Oedipus the King. Written many years later, this 
play tells as a sequel how Oedipus, blind and cared for only by his 
two daughters, Antigone and Ismene, has wandered many years after 
leaving Thebes and has finally come to Colonus, where he is received 
with hospitality. Though still bitter, Oedipus has gained a kind of 
wisdom reminiscent of Ilresias. While at Colonus, Oedipus is visited 
by one of Ms sons, Polyneices, who seeks his father’s blessing upon 
a war he has undertaken against his own brother, Eteocles. Oedipus 
rebuffs him with a long tirade against war-makers. Then, saying that 
each man must make Ms own peace with the universe, he leaves 
the crowd gathered around him and, in the midst of a storm, vanishes 
in a burst of lig^t. Oedipus has made Ms own peace and has been 
reedved by the gods. On tMs note of affirmation, Sophocles ended 
his career. 

Both plays, in one sense, tend toward a definition of man. Oed- 
ipus tried to be a god in Oedipus the King, and was thrust down 
anumg the lowest of the low. Only after suffering and contempla- 
tion was he fit to transcend the eartMy estate and be raised among 
the blessed of Olympus. In Oedipus at Colonus, we see a parallel 
between Oedipus and St^hocles himself: the poet dying old and 

473 



wise, leavii^ his people with last words against strife, seeing Athens 
fighting Sparta just as Polyneices meant to fight Eteoctes. Sophodes, 
like Oedipus, had perfect^ his vidon. In the purity of his expres- 
sion and the breadth of this vision, he is unsurpassed by any poet, 
Greek or modem. 


474 



SCENE: Before the royal palace of Oedipus at Thebes. In front of 
the large central doors there is an altar; a smaller altar stands also 
near each of the two side doors. Suppliants — old men, youths and 
young children — are seated on the steps of the altars. They are 
dressed in white tunics and cloaks, their hair bound with white fillets. 
On the altars they have laid down olive branches wreathed with 
fillets of wool The Priest of Zeus, a venerable man, is alone stand- 
ing, facing the central doors of the palace. These are now thrown 
open. Followed by two attendants, who place themselves on either 
side of the doors, Oedipus enters, in the robes of a king. For a mo- 
ment he gazes silently on the groups at the altars, and then speaks. 

Oedipus 

M y children, latest born to Cadmus ♦ who was of old, why are 
you set before me thus with wreathed branches of suppliants, 
while the city reeks with incense and rings with prayers for health 
and cries of woe? I deemed it unbecoming, my children, to hear these 
things from the mouth of others, and have come here myself, I, 
Oedipus renowned of all. 

TeU me, then, you venerable man — since it is your natural part 
to speak for these — in what mood are you placed here, with what 
dread or what desire? Be sure that I would gladly give all aid; hard 
of heart were I, if I did not pity such suppliants as these. 

* Mythical founder of Thebes 


475 


Sophocles 


Priest of Zeus 

Oedipus, ruler of my land, you see of what years we are who 
surround your altars — ^some, nestlings still too tender for far flights 
— some, bowed with age, priests, as I of Zeus — and these, the 
chosen youth; while the rest of the folk sit with wreathed branches 
in the market place and before the two shrines of Athena. 

For the city, as you yourself see, is now too sorely vexed, and 
can no more lift her head from beneath the angry waves of death; 
a blight is on her in the fruitful blossoms^ of the land, in the herds 
among the pastures, in the barren pangs of women; and despite the 
flaming god, the malign plague has swooped on us and ravages tha 
town; by which the house of Cadmus is made waste, but dark Hades\ 
is made rich in groans and tears. \ 

It is not deeming you ranked with gods that I and these children \ 
are suppliants at your hearth, but deeming you first of men, both 
in life’s common chances and when mortals have to do with more 
than man; seeing that you came to the town of Cadmus and quit 
us of the tax that we paid to the hard songstress,* though you 
knew nothing from us that could help you, nor had been schooled; 
no, by a god’s aid (it is said and believed) you uplifted our lives. 

And now, Oedipus, king glorious in all eyes, we beg you, all we 
suppliants, to find for us some aid, whether by the whisper of a god 
or ^ough the powers of men; for I see that when men have been 
proved wise by past deeds, their words of counsel, too, most often 
have effect. 

Best of mortals, again uplift our state! Guard, guard your fame, 
since now this land calls you savior for your former zeal; and 
never let it be the memory of your reign that we were first restored 
and then destroyed; no, ikt up this state in such a way that it will 
never fall again! 

You gave us that past happiness with good omen; now do the 
same again. For if you are to rule this land even as you are now 
its lord, it’s better to be lord of men than of a waste: since neither 
walled town nor ship is anything if it is void'Rnd no men dwell 
therein. 

Oedipus 

Oh, my piteous children, known, well known to me are the de- 
wes with which you come; I know well that you suffer all; yet, 

* A sphinx which had plagued Thebes. Oedipus answered her riddles, she 
killed herself and he was crowned king. 

476 



Oedipus the King 

sufferers as you are, there is not one of you whose suffering is like 
mine. Your pain comes on each one of you for himself alone and 
for no other; but my soul mourns at once for the city and for myself 
and for all of you. 

You do not rouse me, truly, as one sunken in sleep; no, be sure 
that I have wept many, many tears, gone many ways in wanderings 
of thought. And the sole remedy which, well pondering, I could 
find, I have put into action. I have sent Creon, my wife’s brother, to 
the oracle of Apollo to learn by what deed or word I might deliver 
this town. And already, when the lapse of days is counted, it troubles 
me what he does; for he lingers strangely, beyond the fitting time. 
But when he comes, then I shall be no true man if I do not do all 
that the god commands me. 

Priest 

You have spoken well. At this moment Creon draws near. 

Oedipus 

O king Apollo, may he come to us in the brightness of saving 
fortune, even as his face is bright! 

Priest 

Yes, it seems he brings comfort; otherwise he would not be com- 
ing crowned so thickly with berry-laden bay. 

Oedipus 

We shall know soon. He is at range to hear. — ^Prince, my kins- 
man, son of Menoeceus, what news have you brought us from the 
god? 

Creon 

Good news! I tell you even such troubles as ours — ^if all goes well 
— ^will end in perfect peace. 

Oedipus 

But what is the oracle? So far, your words make me neither bold 
nor afraid. 

Creon 

If you want to hear while these men are near, I’m ready to 
speak. Otherwise, let’s go inside. 


477 



Sophocles 


Oedipus 

No, speak before alii The sorrow which I bear pertains more to 
them thra to my own life. 

Creon 

With your permission then, I will tell what I heard firom the god. 
Apollo, our lord, bids us dearly to drive out a defiling thing which, 
he says, has been harbored in our land; and tells us that our har- 
boring prevents a cure. 

Oedipus 

How shall we cleanse ourselves? What kind of misfortune is it? 

Creon 

We must banish a man, or by bloodshed end bloodshed, since it 
is one man’s blood which brings this tempest on our city. 

Oedipus 

And who is this man whose fate the god reveals? 

Creon 

Laius,* O King, was lord of our land before you became the pilot 
of this state. 

Oedipus 

I know him well — ^by hearsay — ^for I never saw him. 

Creon 

He was slain t; and the god now bids us plainly to bring venge- 
ance on his murderers — ^whoever they be. 

Oedipus 

And where are they upon the earth? Where shall the dim track 
of this old crime be found? 

Creon “ 

In this land, said the god. What is watched for can be caught; 
only that which is not watched escapes. 

* Oedipus’ father, who e3q>osed him as a child because an oracle had said 
that his son would kill him 

t Oedimis killed Laius, not knowing who he was, enraged after the oracle of 
had tdd him that he would kill his father and many his mother. 

478 



Oedipus the King 


Oedipus 

And was it in tbe house, or in the field, or on strange soil that 
Laius met his bloody end? 

Creon 

It was on a visit to Delphi that he had left our land; and he 
never came home after he had once set out. 

Oedipus 

And was there no one to tell? Was there no friend who saw the 
deed, from whom news might have been gained and used? 

Creon 

All perished, except one who fled in fear, and could tell for certain 
only one thing that he saw. 

Oedipus 

And what was that? One thing might show the clue to many, if 
we could get a small beginning for hope. 

Creon 

He said that robbers met and fell on them, not with one man’s 
hands, but with many. 

Oedipus 

How, then, unless there was a bribe from here, should the robber 
have dared to be so bold? 

Creon 

Such things were guessed; but, once Laius was slain, no avenger 
arose. 

Oedipus 

But, when your king had fallen thus, what trouble could have 
hindered a full search? 

Creon 

Ihe riddling Sphinx made us let dark things go. and was inviting 
us to think of what lay at our doors. 


479 



Sophocles 


Obdipus 

Hien I’ll begin the search again and make these dark things clear. 
Apollo has rightly, and so have you, invoked the rights of the dead; 
and so, it is right for me to join with you and seek out vengeance for 
this land and for the god besides. Not for some distant friend — ^no, for 
myself I will try to wash away this stain. For whoever killed Laius 
might lay his vengeful hands on me. By serving Laius, I serve my- 
self. 

Come, quickly, my children, rise from 'the altar steps and lift 
these prayer boughs; summon all the people of Thebes, warning 
them ^at I will leave nothing untried; for our health (the god will- 
ing) will be made sure— or our ruin. 

Priest 

My children, let us rise; we came to beg what this man now 
promises. May Apollo, who sent this message, come to us as savior 
and deliverer from this plague. 

{Exeunt Oedipus and Priest. Enter Chorus of Theban Elders.) 

Chorus 

1st strophe 

O sweetly speaking message of Zeus, in what spirit have you come 
from golden Apollo to glorious Thebes? I am on the rack; terror 
shakes my soul, O Delian Healer to whom wild cries rise, in holy 
fear of thee, what things you will do for me, perhaps unfelt before, 
perhaps returning in the swift-revolving years; tell me, O immortal 
Voice, bom of golden hope. 

1st antistrophe 

First 1 call on you, daughter of Zeus, divine Athena, and on your 
sister, guardian of our land, Artemis, who in the center of our market 
holds her throne of fame, and on Apollo the far-darter: O shine forth 
on me, my threefold help against death! If ever before, to stop a ruin 
hurrying on the city, you drove a fiery plague beyond our borders, 
come also now! 

2nd strophe 

Woe is me, countless are the sorrows that I bear; a plague is on all 
our host, and thou^t can find no weapon for defense. The fruits of 
the glorious earth grow not; by no birth of children do women sur* 

480 



Oedipus the King 

mount the pangs in which they shriek; and life on life you may see 
sped like bird on nimble wing, yes, swifter than resistless fire, to tiiie 
shore of the western god. 

2nd antistrophe 

By such deaths, past numbering, the city perishes: unpitied, her 
children lie on the ground, spreading pestilence, with none to mourn; 
and meanwhile young wives, and gray-haired mothers with them, 
lift a wail at the steps of the altars, some here, some there, beg- 
png help for their weary woes. The prayer to the Healer rings clear, 
and blended with it, the voice of lamentation; for these things, golden 
daughter of Zeus, send us the bright face of comfort. 

3rd strophe 

And grant that the fierce god of death, who now with no brazen 
shields, yet amid cries as of battle, wraps me in the flame of his on- 
set, may turn his back in speedy flight from our land, borne by a 
fair wind to the great ocean deeps, or to those waters in which none 
find haven; for if night leaves anything undone, day follows to ac- 
complish this. O you who wield the powers of the fiery lightning, O 
Zeus our father, slay him with your thunderbolt! 

3rd antistrophe 

Lord Apollo, send, send your arrows from your bent bow’s string 
of woven gold; strike, strike with your might from afar the face of 
our enemy; yes, and brandish the flashing torch of Artemis wherever 
she giances as she romps through woods and hills. And you whose 
hair is bound with gold, O rosy Bacchus, to whom wild drinkers cry, 
come, come with the blaze of your merry fires and help us fight that 
gray god who goes unhonored among the gods. 

(Oedipus re-enters in time to hear the closing strains of the prayer.) 

Oedipus 

You pray — and in answer to your prayers, if you will welcome my 
words and minister your disease, you may have hope of freedom 
&om these pains. I say this publicly, for I am a stranger to this 
grief and to that deed. I could never have found it out myself with- 
out a clue, for it happened before I numbered myself with you of 
Thebes. Now, Thebans, I tell you this: 

Whoever of you knows by whom Laius was killed, I ask him to 
tdfl me all. And if he is afraid, I ask him to remove the danger of 
the charge from his path, for he shall suffer nothing else unkind, but 

481 



Sophocles 

leave our land unhurt Or if anyone knows a foreigner as the assas- 
sin, let him not keep silent; for I will pay his reward, and my thanlrs 
will rest with him besides. 

But if you keep silent — ^if anyone, throu^ fear, shall seek to 
screen himself or a friend — listen to what I’ll do. I command that 
no one in this land, of which I hold the empire and the throne, will 
give shelter or speak a word to that murderer, whoever he is; that 
no one will make him partner of sacrifice or prayer, or ever purify 
him; but that all will ban him from their homes, knowing that tfus 
is our defiling thing, as the oracle of ApoU'o^has shown me. I am a 
friend of the god and of the murdered. And I pray solemnly that 
the slayer, whoever he is, whether his hidden guilt is lonely or has 
partners, evilly — as he is evil — will wear out his unblessed life. 
And for myself I pray that if, with my knowledge, he should be- 
come a guest in my house, I may suffer the same things which even 
now I call down upon others. And I depend on you to make all 
these words good, for my sake and for the sake of the god, and for 
our land, blasted so with barrenness by angry heaven. 

For even if the matter had not been urged on us by a god, it 
would not have been right for you to let the guilt go unpurged, when 
one so noble — and your king besides! — ^had perished. Instead, you 
should have searched it out. And now since it is I who hold the 
powers which once he held, who possess his bed and the wife who 
bore seed to him; and since, if his hope of children had not been in 
vain, children bom of one mother would have made ties between 
him and me — ^but as it was, fate swooped upon his head — ^because 
of these things, I will uphold this-cause as if it were the cause of 'my 
own father, and I will leave nothing untried in seeking to find him 
■whose hand shed that blood, for the honor of Cadmus and the The- 
bans of old. 

And for those who do not obey me, I pray that the gods send 
them neither harvest of the earth nor frait of the womb, but that 
they be wasted by their lot that now is, or by one yet more dire. 
But for all you, the loyal people of Thebes to whom these things 
seem good, may Justice, our ally, and all the gods be with you 
graciously forever. 

Chorus 

As you have put me on my oath, on my oath, O king, I wll 
speak. I am not the slay^, nor can I point to him who slew. As 

482 " 



Oedipus the King 

for the question, it was for Apollo, who sent it, to tell us this thing 
— who can have done the deed. 

Oedipus 

Justly said; but no man on the earth can force the gods to do what 
they will not do. 

Chorus 

I would like to say what seems to me next best. 

Oedipus 

If there is a third course, do not hesitate to show it. 

Chorus 

I know that Tiresias is the seer most like our lord Apollo; from 
whom, O king, a searcher of these things might learn them most 
clearly. 

Oedipus 

Not even this have I left out of my cares. On the hint of Creon, 
I have twice sent a man to bring him; and all this time I wonder 
why he is not here. 

Chorus • 

Indeed (his skill apart) the rumors are faint and old. 

Oedipus 

What rumors are they? I listen to every story. 

Chorus 

Certain wayfarers were said to have killed him. 

Oedipus 

I, too, have heard it, but no one has seen anyone who saw it. 

Chorus 

Well, if he knows what fear is, he will not stay when he hears 
your curses, dire as they are. 


483 



Sophocles 


Oedipus 

When a man does not shrink from a deed, he is not scared by a 
word. 


Chorus 

But here comes a man to convict him. Here at last comes the 
godlike prophet, a man in whom the truth lives. 

{Enter Tiresias, led by a boy .) 

•* S* 

Oedipus 

Tiresias, whose soul grasps all things, the lore that may be told 
and the unspeakable, the secrets of heaven and the low things of 
earth — ^you who feel, though you cannot see — ^what a plague haunts 
our state! From this, great prophet, we find in you our protector and 
only savior. Now, Apollo — ^if indeed you know it not from the mes- 
sengers — sent answer to our question that the only riddance from 
this pest could come if we should learn the killers of Laius, and kill 
them or send them into exile from our land. Neglect neither your 
speech with birds nor any other way of prophecy you have, but 
rescue yourself and the state, rescue me, rescue all that is defiled 
by the dead. For we are in your hands; and man’s noblest task is 
to help others with all his means and powers. 

Tiresias 

Ah, how dreadful it is to have wisdom where it has no profits for 
the wise! Yes, I knew all this very well, but let it slip out of mind; 
otherwise 1 would never have come here. 

Oedipus 

What now? How sad you are! 

Tiresias 

Let me go home. It’s best that you bear your own burden to the 
Old and I mine. 


Oedipus 

Your words are strange, and not kindly to this state which has 
nourished you, if you withhold this answer. 

484 



Oedipus the King 


Tiresias 

I see that you speak out of turn, and so FU keep sflent, for fear 
that 1 may do the same. 

Oedipus 

For the love of the gods, don’t turn away if you have some knowl- 
edge. All we suppliants beg you on our knees. 

Tiresus 

Yes, for you are aU without knowledge; but I will never reveal 
my griefs for fear of telling yours. 

Oedipus 

What do you say? You know the secret and won’t tell it, but are 
determined to betray us and to destroy the state? 

Tiresias 

I will pain neither myself nor you. Why ask these things in vain? 
You will not learn them from me. 

Oedipus 

What, lowest of the low? Oh, you’d anger a stone itself! Won’t 
you speak out? Can nothing move you? Won’t you ever stop this 
silence? 

Tiresias 

You blame my temper, but you do not see to what evils you your- 
self are wedded; no, you find fault with me instead. 

Oedipus 

And who wouldn’t be angry to hear the words with which you 
now slight this city? 

Tiresias 

The future will come by itself, thou^ I shroud it now in silence. 

Oedipus 

Then, since it must come, you should tell me about it. 


48S 



Sophocles 


TnEsus 

111 say nothing more. Rage, then, if you want to, with the fiercest 
wrath your heart knows. 


Oedipus 

Indeed, I won’t hesitate— so angry am I — ^to speak all my 
thoughts. You seem to me even to have helped to plot the deed, 
and to have done it, short of slaying with ^pur hands. If you had 
eyesight, I would have said that the doing, also, of this thing was/ 
yours alone. ' 

Tiresias 

Really? I advise you to obey the order that came from your own 
mouth, and from this day to speak neither to these men nor to me; 
you are the cursed defiler of this land. 

Oedipus 

Are you so brazen with your blustering taunts? And how do you 
expect to escape what you deserve? 

Tiresus 

I have escaped already. My strength is in my truth. 

Oedipus 

Who taught you this? It was not, at least, your own art. 

Tiresus 

You! for you spurred me into speech against my will. 

Oedipus 

What speech? Speak again so that I can learn if better. 

Tiresus 

Didn’t you get my meaning before? Or are you just tempting me 
to talk? 


Oedipus 


No, I can’t say I Imow it. Speak again. 

486 



Oedipus the King 


Tiresias 

I say that you are the slayer of the man whose slayer you are 
seeking. 

Oedipus 

Now you’ll regret you’ve twice said words so bitter! 

Tiresus 

Would you have me say more, so you can get more angry? 

Oedipus 

Say what you want! It wiU all be said in vain. 

Tiresias 

I say that you’ve been living in unguessed shame with your near- 
est kin, and do not see to what evil you have come. 

Oedipus 

Do you think, indeed, that you’ll always speak like this without 
suffering for it? 

Tiresias 

Yes, if there’s any strength in truth. 

Oedipus 

Indeed, there is — ^for everyone except you; for you, that strength 
is lacking, since you’re maimed in ear and mind and eye. 

Tiresias 

You’re a poor fool to utter taunts which everyone here will soon 
be hurling at you! 

Oedipus 

Night, endless night has you in her keeping, so that you can never 
hurt me— nor any other man who sees the sim. 

Tiresias 

No, your doom won’t fall from mel Apollo is enough! It’s his task 
to work that out. 


487 



Sophocles 


Oedipus 

Are these Creon’s tricks or your own? 

Tiresias 

No, Creon’s no plague for you; you’re your own plague. 

Oedipus 

O wealth and empire and skill surpassing skill in life’s keen ri- 
valries, how great is the envy that clings to you, if, for the sake o^ 
this power which the city has put into my hands, a gift unsought,! 
Creon the trusty, Creon my old friend, has crept up on me by stealth, 
hoping to thrust me out of it, and has hired such a scheming juggler 
as this — a tricky quack who has eyes only for his own gains, but in 
his art is blind! 

Come now, tell me: where have you proved yourself a seer? Why, 
when the Riddler who wove the dark song was here, why didn’t you 
say something to free these people? Yet the riddle, at least, was not 
for the first comer to read; it needed a seer’s skill; and you were 
found to have none, neither by help of birds nor from any god. No, 
/ came, I, Oedipus the ignorant, and made her mute when I seized 
the answer by my wit, untaught by birds. And it’s I whom you’re 
trying to oust now, scheming to stand close to Creon’s throne. 1 think 
you and the plotter of these things will rue your zeal to purge the 
land. If you didn’t seem to be an old man, you should have learned 
already to your pain how bold you are. 

Chorus 

To our way of thinking, both this man’s words and yours, Oedipus, 
have been said in anger. Not for such words is our need; but to seek 
how we shall best discharge the orders of the god. 

Tiresus 

King though you are, the ri^t of reply, at least, must be con- 
sidered the same for both; of that I too am lord. Not to you am I a 
servant, but to Loxias; and so I shall not stand enrolled under Creon 
for my patron. And I tell you — since you have taunted me even 
with blindness — ^that you have sigjht, yet see not in u^at misery you 
are, nor where you dwell, nor with whom. Do you know of what stock 
you are? And you have been an tmwitting foe to your own kin, in the 

488 



Oedipus the King 

shades, and on the earth above; and the double lash of your mother’s 
and your father’s curse shall one day drive you from this land in dread- 
ful haste, with darkness then on the eyes that now see true. 

And what place shall not be harbor to your shriek, what p l a ce 
shall not ring with it soon, when you have caught the meaning of 
the marriage song with which you were borne to your fatal haven 
after a voyage that was fair? And a throng of other ills you guess 
not, which shall make you level with your true self and with your 
own brood. 

And so, heap scorn on Creon and on my message, for no mail 
shall ever be crushed more miserably than you. 

Oedipus 

Are these taunts to be indeed borne from him? Out of here, ruin 
take you! Out of here, this instant! Back! away! go away from these 
doors! 

Tiresias 

I would never have come, if you had not called me. 

Oedipus 

If I had known you would speak words of folly. I’d have never 
asked you to my house. 

Tiresias 

So you think I’m a fool? And are your parents sane? 

Oedipus 

What parents? Wait a moment . . . and who is my father? 

Tiresus 

This day will show your birth, and your ruin too. 

Oedipus 

What riddles, what dark words you always speak! 

Tiresias 

Ha! Aren’t you the man who can best throw light on dark speech? 

Oedipus 

Go ahead! Taunt me for what others praise me! 


489 



Sophocles 


Tiresias 

That praise and that fortune undid you! 

Oedipus 

I don’t care — since I saved this town. 


Tiresus 

Then if you don’t care. I’ll go. Boy, take me out of here. 

Oedipus 


Yes, let him take you. Here, you’re a hindrance, a trouble. Once 
you’ve vanished, you won’t vex me any more. 

Tiresus 

I’ll go when I’ve done my errand, never afraid of your frown. 
For you can’t destroy me. And I tell you this; the man whom you’ve 
been looking for all this time, uttering threats and proclaiming a 
search into the murder of Laius — ^that man is here — seemingly an 
alien, but soon he shall be found to be a native Theban, and shall 
not be glad of his fortune. A blind man he will be who now has 
sig^t; a beggar, he who now is rich; he shall make his way to a 
strange land, feeling the ground before him with his staff. And he 
shall be found at once brother and father of the children with whom 
he consorts; son and husband of the woman who bore him; heir to 
his father’s bed, shedder of his father’s blood. 

So go in and think of that; and if you find that I have been at 
fault, say that I have no wit in prophecy. 

(Exit Tiresus, led by a boy.) 


Chorus 

1st strophe 

Who is he of whom the divine voice from the Delphian rock has 
spoken, as having done with red hands horrors that no tongue can 
tell? 

It is time that he ply in fli^t a foot stronger lhan the feet of 
storm-swift steeds: for the son of Zeus is springmg on him, all armed 
with fiery lightnings, and with him come the dread, unerring Fates. 

1st anUstrophe 

Yes, neudy sent from snowy Parnassus, the message has flawed 
forth to make all search for the unknown man. Into the wild wood’s 


490 



Oedipus the King 

covert, among caves and rocks he is roaming, fierce as a bull, 
wretched and forlorn on his joyless path, still seeking to put from 
him the doom spoken at Earth’s central shrine; but that doom ever 
lives, ever fiits around him. 


2nd strophe 

Dreadly, in truth, dreadly does the wise augur move me, who ap- 
prove not, nor am able to deny. I don’t know how to speak; I am 
fluttered with forebodings; neither of the present have I clear vision, 
nor of the future. Never in past days, nor in these, have I heard how 
the son of Polybus * had any grief that I could bring as proof in as- 
sailing the public fame of Oedipus, and seeking to avenge the line 
of Laius for the undiscovered murder. 


2nd antistrophe 

No, Zeus indeed and Apollo are keen of thought, and know the 
things of earth; but that human prophet wins knowledge above mine, 
of this there can be no sure test; though man may surpass man in 
lore. Yet, until I see the word made good, never will 1 assent when 
men blame Oedipus. Before all eyes, the winged maiden came 
against him of old, and he was seen to be wise; he bore the test, in 
welcome service to our state; never, therefore, by the verdict of my 
heart shall he be judged guilty of crime. 

Creon {stepping fon\>ard) 

Fellow citizens, having learned that Oedipus the king lays dire 
charges against me, I am here, indignant. If, in the present troubles, 
he thinks that he has suffered from me, by word or deed, anything 
that leads to harm, in truth I do not crave my full term of years, 
when I must bear such blame as this. The wrong of this rumor 
touches me not in one point alone, but has the largest scope, if I 
am to be called a traitor in the city, a traitor too by you and by my 
friends. 

Chorus 

No, this taunt came under stress, perhaps, of an^r, rather than 
from a purpose of the heart 

Creon 

And why did he say that my plans made the seer tell his lies? 
• King of Corinth, who rescued the exposed Oedipus, and whom Oedipus 
believes to be his true father 


491 



Sophocles 


Chorus 

Such things were said — don’t know what they mean. 

Creon 

And was this charge laid against me with steady eyes and steady 
mind? 


Chorus 

I don’t know; I don’t see what my masten^ do; but here comes 
our lord from the house. 


Oedipus 

Sir, why have you come here? Are you so bold that you have 
come to my house, who are the proved assassin of its master — ^the 
robber of my crown? Come, tell me, in the name of the gods, was 
it cowardice or folly that you saw in me, that made you plot this 
thing? Did you think that I would not see this deed creeping on me 
by stealth, or would not ward it off? Now isn’t your attempt foolish 
— ^to seek, without followers or friends, a throne, a prize which fol- 
lowers and wealth must win? 


Creon 

Mark me now — in answer to your words; hear a fair reply, and 
then jud^ for yourself on knowledge. 

Oedipus 

You are apt in speech, but I have a poor mind for your lessons, 
since I have found you my malignant foe. 

Creon 

Now first hear how I will explain this thing— 

Oedipus 

Explain away everything but one — ^that you are not false. 

Creon 

U you think that stubbornness without sense is a good gfft, you 
are not wise. 


492 



Oedipus the King 


Oedipus 

If you think that you can wrong a kinsman and escape the pentdty, 
you are not sane. 

Creon 

Justly said, I grant you; but tell me: what is the wrong that you 
say you have suffered from me? 

Oedipus 

Did you advise, or did you not, that I should send for that rev- 
erend seer? 

Creok 

I am still of the same opinion. 

Oedipus 

How long is it, then, since Laius— 

Creon 

Since Laius? I don’t get your drift . . . 

Oedipus 

—was swept from men’s sight by a deadly violence? 

Creon 

The count of years would run far into the past. 

Oedipus 

Was this seer, then, of the craft in those days? 

Creon 

Yes, sldlled as now, and in equal honor. 

Oedipus 

Did he make any mention of me at that time? 

Creon 

Never, certainly, when I was within hearing. 


493 



Sophocles 


Oedipus 

But didn’t you search for the murderer? 

Creon 

Due search we made, of course — and learned nothing. 

Oedipus 

And how was it that this sage did not tell his story then? 

* 

Creon 

I don’t know; where I lack light, it’s my habit to be silent. 

Oedipus 

This much, at least, you know, and could declare with light 
enough. 

Creon 

What is that? If I know it, I will not deny it. 

Oedipus 

That if he had not conferred with you, he would never have 
named my slaying of Laius. 

Creon 

If he speaks so, you know best; but I claim to learn from you as 
much as you have now from me. 

Oedipus 

Learn your fill: I shall never be found guilty of the blood. 

Creon 

Tell me, then — ^you have married my sister? 

Oedipus 

The question allows no denial. 

Creon 

And you rule tiie land as she does, witii equal power? 

494 



Oedipus the Kino 


Oedipus 

She obtains from me all her desire. 

Creon 

And don’t I rank as a third equal of you two?* 

Oedipus 

Yes, and it’s just in this that you’ve proved a false friend. 

Creon 

Not so, if you would reason with your own heart as I have with 
mine. And first weigh this: whether you think that anyone would 
choose to rule amid terrors rather than in unruffled peace — ^granting 
that he is to have the same powers. Now I, for one, have no desire 
to be a king, other than doing kingly deeds; no, nor has any man 
who knows how to keep a sober mind. For now I win all honors 
from you without fear; but if I were ruler myself, I should be doing 
much even against my own pleasure. 

How, then, could royalty be sweeter for me to have than painless 
rule and influence? I am not yet so misguided as to desire other 
honors than those which bring me profit. Now everyone wishes me 
joy; now everyone greets me well; now those who have a suit with 
you crave speech with me, since in me lies their hope of success. 
Then why should I resign these things and take those? No mind will 
become false as long as it is wise. No, I’m no lover of such policy, 
and if another man put it into action, I could never bear to act with 
him. 

And in proof of this, first go to the priestess of Apollo and ask 
her if I brou^t you her true words; then next, if you find that I’ve 
plaimed anything with the prophet, take me and kill me, by the 
sentence not of one mouth but of two. But don’t make me guilty in 
a comer, on unproved guesses. It’s not right to judge bad men good 
at random, or good men bad. It’s as bad for a man to cast off a true 
friend as it is to cast away the life in his own breast, wWch he loves 
most of all. Indeed, you’ll leam these things for sure with time, for 
time alone proves a man just, even though you could tell an evil 
man in just one day. 


495 



Sophocles 


Chorus 

He has spoken well, O king, for one who does not wish to fall. 
The quick in coxinsel are never certain. 

Oedipus 

While the stealthy plotter moves in upon me, I too must be quick 
with my counterplot. If I wait for him asleep, his ends will be gained 
and mine missed. 

Creon 

What would you do, then? Would you cast me out of the land? 

Oedipus 

No, no, I want your death — ^not your banishment — ^so that you 
may show what kind of thing envy is. 

Creon 

You speak as if resolved neither to yield nor to believe me? 

Oedipus 

No! For you convince me that you’re not worthy of belief. 

Creon 

I thin k you’re insane! 

Oedipus 

I am sane — at least in my own interest! 

Creon 

Indeed! You should be the same in mine too! 

Oedipus 

No, for you’re false! 

Creon 

And what if you understand nothing? 

Oedipus 

Still, I must rule. 

496 



Oedipus the King 


Not if you rule badly! 


Listen to him, Thebes! 


Creon 


Oedipus 


Creon 


Thebes is mine too — ^not yours alone! 

{Enter Jocasta.) 

Chorus 

Stop, princes! In good time, too, for I see Jocasta coming from the 
house, who can help you quiet your feud. 


Jocasta 

Misguided men, why have you raised such a foolish strife of 
tongues? Aren’t you ashamed, while the land is sick, to stir up trou- 
bles of your own? Come, go into the house, Oedipus — and you, 
Creon, go to yours. Stop making so much over petty griefs. 


Creon 

Kinswoman, your husband Oedipus says he’ll do terrible things 
to me — ^that he’ll cast me out of the land of my fathers or kill me 
outright. 

Oedipus 

Yes, for I’ve caught him, lady, working evil with evil arts against 
me. 

Creon 

I pray I may never see good again but may die damned if Tve 
ever done anydiing against you such as you charge me with! 

Jocasta 

O, for the gods’ love, believe him, Oedipus — ^first, for the awful 
sake of his oath; and then for my sake and for those who stand out 
there before, you! 

Chorus 

Ist strophe 


Consent, reflect, listen, O my king, I pray you! 


497 



Sophocles 


Oedipus 

What grace, then, would you have me grant you? 

Chorus 

Respect him who in time past was not foolish, and who now is 
strong in his oath. 


Oedipus 

Do you know what you’re asking? 


Yes. 


Chorus 


Oedipus 

Tell me, then, what you mean. 

Chorus 

That you should never use an unproved rumor to cast a dishonor- 
ing charge on a friend who has bound himself with a curse. 

Oedipus 

Then be sure that, when you ask this, for me you are asking de- 
struction or exile from this land. 

Chorus 

2nd strophe 

No, by him who stands in the front of all the heavenly host, no, 
by the Sun! Unblessed, unfriended, may I die by the utmost doom, 
if i have that thought! But my unhappy soul is worn by the wither- 
ing of the land, and again by ^ thought that our old sorrows should 
be crowned by sorrows springing from you two. 

Oedipus 

Then let him go, though I am surely doomed to "death or to be 
thrust dishonored from the land. Your lips, not his, move my com- 
passion by their plaint; but he, wherever he is, shall be hated. 

Creon 

You are sullen in yielding, just as you are vehement in die ex- 

498 



Oedipus the King 

cesses of your wrath; but such natures are justly sorest for themselves 
to bear. 

Oedipus 

Then won’t you leave me in peace and go away? 

Creon 

I’D go my way; I’ve found you undisceming, but in the sight of 
these men, I am just. 

{Exit Creon) 


Chorus 

1st antistrophe 

Lady, why do you delay taking this man into the house? 

JOCASTA 

I’D do so, when I’ve learned what has happened. 


Chorus 


BUnd suspicion, bred of talk, arose; and, on the other part, in- 
justice wounds. 


JOCASTA 


It was on both sides? 


Chorus 


Yes. 


JoCASTA 


And what was the story? 

Chorus 

Enou^, I think, enough— when our land is already vexedr-4hat 
the matter should rest where it is. 


Oedipus 

Do you see to what you have come, for aU your honest purpose, 
in seeking to slacken and blunt my zeal? 


Chorus 


Kin g, I have said it not once 
been shown a madman, bankrupt 


2nd antistropke 
alone— be sure diat I should have 
in sane counsel, if I put you away 


499 



Sophocles 

— ^you, who gave a true course to my beloved country when dis- 
traught by troubles — ^you, who now also are likely to prove our pros- 
pering guide. 


JOCASTA 

In the name of the gods, tell me also, O King, why you have con- 
ceived this steadfast wrath. 

Oedipus 

I will; for I honor you, lady, above these men: the cause is Creon, 
and the plots that he has laid against me. 

JoCASTA 

Speak on — if you can tell clearly how the feud began. 

Oedipus 

He says that I am guilty of the blood of Laius. 

JoCASTA 

On his own knowledge? Or on hearsay from another? 

Oedipus 

He has made a rascal seer his mouthpiece; as for himself, he keeps 
his lips wholly pure. 


JOCASTA 

Then absolve yourself of these things of which you speak. Listen 
to me and learn for your comfort that no one of mortal birth is a 
sharer in the science of the seer. I wQl give you quick proof of that. 

An orade came to Laius once — I will not say from Apollo him- 
self, but from one of his ministers — that the doom would overtake 
him to die by the hand of his child, who would spring from him ,and 
me. 

Now Laius — or at least, the rumor has it so — was murdered one 
day by foreign robbers at a place where three highways meet. And 
the child’s birth was not three days past when Laius pinned its 
ankles together and had it thrown by others’ hands on a pat^ess 
mountain. 

So, in that one case, Apollo did not allow the baby to become his 
father’s IdDer, nor Laius — as he deeply feared — ^to die by his child’s 

500 



Oedipus the King 

hand. This is the way the words of prophets map out the future! 
Don’t listen to another word! Whatever things the god wants, he 
himself will easily bring to Ught. 

Oedipus 

What restlessness of soul, lady, what tumult of mind have just 
come upon me since I heard you speak! 

JOCASTA 

■What anxiety has startled you to make you say this? 

Oedipus 

I thought I heard this from you: that Laius was killed where three 
highways meet. 

JOCASTA 

Yes, that was the story; and it hasn’t died out yet. 

Oedipus 

And where is the place where this happened? 

JOCASTA 

The land is called Phocis; and branching roads lead to the same 
spot from Delphi and from Daulia. 

Oedipus 

And how much time has passed since these things happened? 

JOCASTA 

The news was published to the town shortly before you were first 
seen in power over this land. 

Oedipus 

O Zieus, what have you decreed to do to me? 

JOCASTA 

And why, Oedipus, does this thing weigh upon your soul? 

Oedipus 

Don’t ask me yet; but teU me what the stature of Laius was, and 
how ripe his maiAood. 


501 



Sophocles 


JOCASTA 

He was tall — ^the silver just lightly strewn among his hair; and his 
form was not greatly unlike yours. 

Oedipus 

Unhappy me! I think I have been laying myself imder a dread 
curse, and did not know it. 

JoCASTA 

What do you say? I tremble when I look at you, my king. 

Oedipus 

I have dread mis^vings that the seer can see. But you will help 
me if you will tell me one thing more. 

JOCASTA 

Indeed — ^though I tremble — I will answer all you ask, when I 
hear it. 

Oedipus 

Did he go in a small force, or with many armed followers, like a 
chieftain? 

JOCASTA 

They were five in all — a herald one of them; and there was one 
carriage, which bore Laius. 

Oedipus 

' Alas! It is now clear indeed. Who was he who gave you these 
tidings, lady? 

JOCASTA 

A servant — the sole survivor who came home. 

Oedipus 

Is he by chance at hand in the house now? 

JOCASTA 

No, truly; as soon as he found you reigning in the place d Lahis, 
he supplicated me, with hand laid on mine, that I would send him 

502 



Obdipus the Kino 

to the fields, to the pastures of the flocks, that he might be far from 
toe right of this town. And I sent him; he was worthy, for a slave 
to win even a larger gift than that, ^ ’ 

Oedipus 

I desire his return to us without delay! 

JOCASTA 

It’s easy; but why do you ask tius? 

Oedipus 

I fear, lady, that my own lips have lately uttered too many words, 
and therefore I would like to see him. ’ 

JOCASTA 

Indeed, he shall come. But I think that I too have a claim to leam 
what lies heavy on your heart, my king. 

Oedipus 

Yes, and it shall not be kept from you, now that my forebodings 
have advanced so far. Who, indeed, is more to me than you, to whom 
I should speak in passing through such a fortune as this? 

My father was Polybus of Corinth — ^my mother, the Dorian 
Merope; and I was the first of all the people in that town, until some- 
thing happened to me, worthy of wonder, though not worthy of my 
own heat concerning it. At a banquet, a man full of wine said that 
1 was not the true son of my father. And I, vexed, restrained my- 
self for that day as best I might; but on the next 1 went to my mother 
and father, and questioned them; and they were angry at the man 
who had let those words fly. So from them I had comfort; yet this 
thing was always rankling in my heart; for it still crept abroad with 
strong rumor. And, unknown to my mother and father, I went to 
Delphi, and Apollo sent me out without that knowledge for wjbidi 
I had come, but answered me other things full or sorrow and terror 
and woe; he even told me I would defile my mother’s bed; and that 
1 would show men a brood of children that they could not endure 
to look at; and that I would be my father’s killer. 

And I, when I had listened to this, turned to flight from the land 
of Corinth, after that knowing its region by the stars alone; and I 
went toward some spot where I would never see fulfillment of the 

503 



Sophocles 

infamies foretold in my evil doom. And on my way I came to the 
regions in which you say this prints perished. Now, lady, I will tell 
you the truth. When, on my journey, I drew near those three roads, 

I met a herald and a man seated in a carriage drawn by colts, just 
as you have described; and he who was in front, and die old man 
himself, wanted to push me rudely from the path. Then, in anger, 

1 struck the one who pushed me aside — ^the driver; and the old man, 
seeing it, watched for the moment when I was passing, and, from 
the carriage, brought his goad with two teeth down upon my head. 
Yet he was paid with interest; by one swift blow from the staff in j 
this hand he was rolled right out of the carriage, on his back; and \ 
I killed every man of them. 

But if this stranger had any tie with Laius, who is now more 
wretched than the man before you? What mortal could prove more 
hated of heaven? Whom no stranger, no citizen is allowed to receive 
in his house; whom it is unlawful for anyone to accost; whom all 
must repel from their homes! And this — ^this curse — ^was laid on me 
by no mouth but my own! And I pollute the bed of the slain man 
with the hands by which he perished. Tell me, am I vile? Oh, am 
I not utterly unclean — seeing that I must be banished, and in ban- 
ishment never see my own people, nor set foot in my own land, or 
else be joined in wedlock to my mother, and kill my father, even 
Polybus, who reared me? 

Then would not he speak rightly of Oedipus, who judged these 
things sent by some cruel power above man? Forbid, forbid, you 
pure and awful gods, that I should see that day! No, may I be swept 
from among men, before I see myself visited with the brand of such 
a doom! 


Chorus 

To us, indeed, these things, O King, are filled with fear; yet have 
hope, until at last you have gained full knowledge from him who 
saw the deed. 


Oedipus 

Hope, in truth, rests with me so far alone; I can wait for the man 
summoned from the pastures. 

JOCASTA 

And when he has appeared — what wonld you have him do? 

504 



Oedipus the King 


Oedipus 

I’ll tell you. If his story is found to tally with yours, I, at least, 
will stand dear of disaster. 


JOCASTA 

Yes, but how will you know from what I said? 


Oedipus 

You said that he told you Laius had been killed by robbers. If he 
speaks, as before, of many men, then I wasn’t the slayer; a lone 
man is not the same as many. But if he names one lonely wayfarer, 
then doubtlessly this guilt leans toward me. 

JoCASTA 

No, rest assured! At least, he first told the tale like that. He 
couldn’t change it now, for the whole city heard it, not just I. But 
even if he should wander a bit from his former story, never, my 
king, can he show that the murder of Laius fits the prophecy; for 
Loxias p lainly said that he must die by the hand of my child. Never- 
theless, that poor innocent never killed him, but perished first itself. 
And after all that, when it came to prophecies, I could never look 
right nor left. 

Oedipus 

You judge well. But still, send someone to bring the peasant; 
don’t leave this matter hanging. 

JoCASTA 

m send right away. But let’s go into the house. I’ll do nothing 

except for your good pleasure. \ 

^ {Exeunt Oedipus and Jocasta.) 


Chorus 

1st strophe 

May destiny still find me winning the praise of reverent purity in 
all words and deeds sanctioned by those laws of r^e s«btoe, 
called into life throughout the high clear heaven, whose fa*®' “ 
Olympus alone; their parent was no race of mortal m®«- “ 

shaU obUvion ever lay them to sleep; the god is nughty m them, and 

he never grows old. 


505 



Sophocles 

1st antistrophe 

Insolence breeds the tyrant; insolence, once vainly surfeited on 
wealth that is not just or good, when it has scaled the crowning 
height, leaps to the abyss of doom, where no running with the feet 
can bring escape. But I pray that the god may never quell such 
rivalry as benefits the state; the god I will always honor as my pro- 
tector. 

2nd strophe 

But if any man walks haughtily in deed or ^ord, with no fear of 
justice, no reverence for the images of gods, may an evil doom seize 
him for his ill-starred pride, if he will not win fairly, nor keep him- 
self from unholy deeds, but must lay profaning hands on sanctities. 

Where such things are, what mortal shall boast any more that he 
can ward oil the arrows of the gods from his life? No, if such deeds 
are honored, why should we join in the sacred dance? 

2nd antistrophe 

No more will I go reverently to earth’s central and inviolate shrine, 
no more to Olympia, if these oracles do not say what will truly 
happen, so that all men will point at them with mocking fingers. No, 
King — ^if you’re rightly called our king — ^Zeus, all-ruling, may it not 
escape your ever-deathless power! 

The old prophecies concerning Laius are fading; already men are 
disobeying them, and nowhere is Apollo Notified with honors; the 
worship of the gods is dying. 

(JocASTA comes out, bearing a branch, wreathed with festoons of 
wool, which, as a suppliant, she is about to lay on the altar of the 
household god, Apollo, in front of the palace.) 

JoCASTA 

Princes of the land, the thought has come to me to visit the shrines 
of the gods, with this wreathed branch in my hands, and these gifts 
of incense. For Oedipus excites his soul too much with all kinds of 
alarms, nor, like a man -of sense, judges the new tl^gs by the old, 
but is at the will of the speaker, if he speaks terrorsr 

Since, then, by counsel I can do no good, to you, Apollo, for you 
are nearest, I have come, a suppliant with these symbols of prayer, 
that you may find us some riddance from uncleanness. For now we 
ate all afraid, seeing him afraid, like those who see fear in the helms- 
man of their ship. 

506 



Oedipus the King 

{While JocASTA offers her prayers to the god, a Messenger arrives.) 

Messenger 

Mig^t I learn from you, strangers, where is the house of the king, 
Oedipus? Or, better sM, tell me where he himself is — if you know. 

Chorus 

This is his dwelling, and he himself, stranger, is within; and this 
lady is the mother of his children. 

Messenger 

ITien may she be forever happy in a happy home, since she is 
his heaven-blessed queen. 

JOCASTA 

Happiness to you also, stranger! You deserve it for your fait 
greeting. But tell me what you have come to ask or say. 

Messenger 

Good news, lady, for your house and for your husband. 

JOCASTA 

What is it? And from whom have you come? 

Messenger 

From Corinth, and you’ll rejoice at the message I’ll soon speak 
though also, perhaps, you’ll grieve. 

JOCASTA 

Tell me then, what is it? How can it have a double power? 

Messenger 

The people of Corinth want to make your husband their king! 

JOCASTA 

What are you saying? Has old Polybus been put out of power? 

Messenger 

No indeed! Death holds him in the tomb. 


507 



Sophocles 


JOCASTA 

What are you saying? Is Polybus dead, old man? 

Messenger 

If I don’t speak the truth, then let me die! 

JOCASTA 

O Handmaid, run quickly and tell this to your master! O you 
oracles of the gods, where do you stand now? This is the man whom . 
Oedipus long feared and shunned, afraid he might kill him — and| 
now this man has died by the course of destiny and not by his son’s \ 
hand! 

{Enter Oedipus.) 

Oedipus 

Jocasta, dearest wife, why have you called me? 

JOCASTA 

Listen to this man, and judge, as you listen, to what the awful 
oracles of the gods have come. 

Oedipus 

And he — ^who is he, and what news has he for me? 

Jocasta 

He is from Corinth, to tell you that your father Polybus lives no 
longer, but has died. 

Oedipus 

What, stranger? Let me have it from your own mouth. 

Messenger 

If I must first roake these things plain, I will simply say that he 
is dead and gone. 

Oedipus 

By treachery, or by cfisease? 

Messenger 

A li ght thing in the scale brings the aged to their rest 

508 



Oedipus the King 


Oedipus 

Ah, he died, it seems, of sickness? 


Messenger 

Yes, and of the long years that he had journeyed. 

Oedipus 

Alas, alas! Why, indeed, my wife, should one believe in the hearth 
of the prophet, or in the birds that scream above our heads, who 
said I was doomed to kill my father? He is dead, and hid already 
beneath the earth; and here am I, who have not put my hand to 
my spear. Unless, perhaps, he was killed by longing for me; that 
way, indeed, I should be the cause of his death. But the oracles as 
they stand, at least. Polybus has swept with him to his rest in Hades; 
they are worth nothing. 

JOCASTA 

Yes, did I not tell you so long ago? 

Oedipus 

You did, but I was misled by my fear. 


JoCASTA 

Do not ponder those things in your heart any more. 


Oedipus 

But surely I must still fear my mother’s bed? 


JOCASTA 

No, what should a mortal fear, for whom the d^rees of Fortune 
are supreme, and who has clear foresight of nothing? It is best to 
Uve at random, as one may. But do not fear marriage with your 
mother. Many men have done so in dreams: but he to whom these 
things mean nothing bears his life most easily. 


Oedipus 

All these bold words of yours would have been well, 
were not living; but since she lives, I must fear ^thoug y p® 
well. 


509 



Sophocles 


JOCASTA 

Still, your fair’s deadi is a great sign to cheer us. 

Oedipus 

Great, I know; but 1 still fear the one who lives. 

Messenger 

And who is the woman you fear? 

Oedipus 

Merope, old man, the wife of Polybus. 

Messenger 

And what is it in her that causes your fear? 

Oedipus 

A heaven-sent oracle of dread import, stranger. 

Messenger 

Lawful or unlawful for another to know? 

Oedipus 

Lawful, surely. Loxias once said that I was doomed to wed my 
own mother, and to shed with my own hands my father’s blood. 
For this reason I kept my home in Corinth long far from me; with 
happy outcome, indeed — ^yet still it is sweet to see the face of parents. 

Messenger 

. Was it indeed for fear of this that you were an exile from that 
dty? 

Oedipus 

And because I did not wish, old man, to be the killer of my father. 

Messenger 

Then why have I not freed you, king, from this fear, dnce I came 
with friendly purpose? 

Oedipus 

Luteed you should have had a reward from me. 

510 



Oedipus the King 


Messenger 

Indeed it was chiefly for this that I came— so that, on your return 
home, I might reap some good. 

Oedipus 

No, I will never go near my parents. 

Messenger 

Ah my son, it’s plain enough that you do not know what you are 
doing. 

Oedipus 

How, old man? For the gods’ love, tell me. 


Messenger 

If for these reasons you shrink from going home. 

Oedipus 

Indeed, I’m afraid that Apollo may prove himself true for me. 

Messenger 

You are afrmd to be stained with guilt through your parents? 

Oedipus 

That is true, old man — ^that is what always frightens me. 

Messenger 

Do you know, then, that your fears are wholly in vain? 

Oedipus 

How so, if I was bom of those parents? 


Messenger 

Because Polybus was nothing to you in blood. 

Oedipus 

What are you saying? Polybus was not my father? 

Messenger 


No more than I am. 


511 



Oedipus 

How could you be? 

Messenger 

I am not, but neither is he. 


Sophocles 


Oedipus 

Why, then, did he call me his son? 

Messenger 

He got you as a gift from my hands long ago. 


Oedipus 

And yet he loved me so dearly, even though I came from an- 
other’s hands? 


Messenger 

Yes, his childlessness won him over. 


Oedipus 

And you — ^had you bought me or found me when you gave me to 
him? 


Messenger 

Found you in Citbaeron’s winding glens. 


Oedipus 

And why were you roaming those regions? 


Messenger 

I was there in charge of mountain flocks. 


Oedipus 

What? You were a shepherd — a wandering peasant? 

Messenger 

Yes, but your savior, my son — at that time. 


Oedipus 

What pain did I suffer when you took me in your arms? 


512 



Oedipus the King 


Messenger 

The ankles of your feet know. 

Oedipus 

Ah me, why do you speak of that old trouble? 

Messenger 

I freed you when you had your ankles pinned together. 

Oedipus 

Yes, it was a shameful affliction that I had from my cradle up. 

Messenger 

So bad, that from that bad fortune you were called by the name 
which still is yours,* 

Oedipus 

Oh, for the gods’ love — ^was the crime my mother’s or father’s? 
Speak! 

Messenger 

I do not know; the man who gave you to me knows that better 
than I. 

Oedipus 

What? You got me from another? You did not light on me your- 
self? 

Messenger 

No; another shepherd gave you to me, 

Oedipus 

Who was he? Can you tell me for certdn? 

Messenger 

I think he was one of the household of Laius. 

Oedipus 

The king who ruled this country long ago? 

• Oedipus means “swollen foot” in Greek. Note the persistent puns on feet, 
running and walking. 

513 



Sophocles 


Messenger 

The same; it was in his service that the man was a herdsman. 

Oedipus 

Is he still alive, so that I might see him? 

Messenger 

Hie people of your country should know better than I. 

Oedipus 

Is there any of you here that knows the herdsman of whom he 
speaks — ^that has seen him in the pastures or the town? Answer! 
The hour has come that these things should be finally revealed. 

Leader of the Chorus 

I think he speaks of the peasant whom you already wished to see; 
but our lady Jocasta mig^t best tell that. 

Oedipus 

Lady, do you know the man whom we lately summoned? Is it of 
him that this man speaks? 

Jocasta 

Why ask of whom he spoke? Pay no attention to it ... do not 
waste a thought on what he said ... it is idle. 

Oedipus 

It must not be that, with such clues in my grasp, I should fail to 
bring my birth to light. 

Jocasta 

For the gods’ sake, if you have any care for your own life, stop 
this search! I have enough anguish already. 

Oedipus 

Have courage; thougii I am the son of a slave mother — ^yes, a 
dave by three generations — ^you will not be basebom. 

Jocasta 

Yet listen to me, I beg you: do not do this. 

514 



Oedipus the King 


Oedipus 

I must not think of not discovering the whole truth. 

JOCASTA 

Then I wish you well — advise you for the best. 

Oedipus 

This best advice, then, vexes my patience. 

JOCASTA 

Ill-fated man! May you never come to know who you are! 

Oedipus 

Go, someone, bring me the herdsman — and leave this woman to 
glory in her princely stock. 

JOCASTA 

Alas, alas, miserable! — ^that word alone can I call you, and no 
other word forever after. 

iShe rushes into the palace.) 

Chorus 

Why hath the lady gone, Oedipus, in a transport of wild grief? 
I do not doubt a storm of sorrow will break forth from this silence. 

Oedipus 

Break forth what will! Even if my race is lowly, I must learn 
it. That woman, perhaps — ^for she has a woman’s pride — ^is ashamed 
of my base roots. But I, who hold myself son of Fortune that gives 
good, will not be dishonored. Fortune is the mother from whom I 
spring; and the months, my kinsmen, have marked me sometimes 
lowly, sometimes great. Such being my lineage, never again can I 
prove false to it or fail to search out the secret of my birth. 

Chorus 

strophe 

If I am a seer or wise of heart, O Cithaeron, you shall not fail 
—by heaven, you shall not! — ^to know in the coming season of full 
moon that Oedipus honors you as native to him, as his nurse and 
his mother, and that you are celebrated in our dance and song, be- 

515 



Sophocles 

cause you are well pleasing to our prince. O Apollo to whom we 
cry, may these things find favor in your sig^t! 

antistrophe 

Who was it, my son, who of the race whose years are many bore 
you in wedlock with Pan, the mountain-roaming father? Or was 
Loxias your sire? For dear to him are all the upland pastures. Or 
perhaps it was the Bacchants’ god, dweller on hilltops, that received 
you, a newborn joy, from one of the nymphs of Helicon, with whom 
he often sports. 

Oedipus ’ ^ 

Elders, if it is for me to guess, I, who have never met with him, 
I think I see the herdsman of whom we have long been in quest; 
for in his venerable age he tallies with this stranger’s years, and I 
know all those who bring him, 1 think, as servants of my own. But 
perhaps you have the advantage of me in knowledge, if you have 
seen the herdsman before. 

Chorus 

Yes, I know him, for sure; he was in the service of Laius— trusty 
as any man, in his shepherd’s place. 

{The Herdsman is brought in.) 

Oedipus 

I ask you first, Corinthian stranger, is this the man you mean? 

Messenger 

This man you’re looking at. 

Oedipus 

- Ho, old man — look this way and answer all that I ask you. You 
were once in the service of Laius? 

Herdsman 

I ^as a slave not bought, but reared in his house. 

Oedipus 

Employed in what labor, or what way of life? 

Herdsman 

For the best part of my life I tended flocks. 

516 



Oedipus the King 


Oedipus 

And what regions did you haunt? 

Herdsman 

Sometimes it was Cithaeron, sometimes the neighboring ground. 

Oedipus 

Then have you seen this man in those parts — 

Herdsman 

Doing what? . . . What man do you mean? . . . 

Oedipus 

This man here — or have you ever met him before? 

Herdsman 

Not that I could say so at once from memory. 

Messenger 

And no wonder, master. But I will bring clear recollection to his 
ignorance. I am sure that he well remembers the time when we 
lived in the region of Cithaeron — ^he with two flocks; I, his comrade, 
with one — ^three full half-years, from spring to fall; and then for the 
winter I used to drive my flock to my own fold, and he took his to 
the fold of Laius. Did any of this happen as I tell it, or did it not? 

Herdsman 

You speak the truth — ^though it is long ago. 

Messenger 

Come, tell me now — can you remember having given me a boy in 
those days, to be reared as my foster son? 

Herdsman 

What now? Why do you ask the question? 

Messenger 

That man, my friend, is he who was that child. 


517 



Sophocles 


Hbrdsman 

Plague seize you— be rilent once tor alll 

Oedipus 

Hal do not chide him, old man — your words need chiding more 
than his. 


Herdsman 

And how, most noble master, do I offend yo)i? 

Oedipus 

In not telling about the boy of whom he asks. 

Herdsman 

He speaks without knowledge — ^he is busy to no good end. 

Oedipus 

You will not speak with a good grace, but you will on pain. 

Herdsman 

No, for the gods’ love, do not abuse an old man! 

Oedipus 

Ho, someone — opinion him this instant! 

Herdsman 

Why? why? what more do you want to learn? 

Oedipus 

Did you give this man the child of whom he asks? 

Herdsman 

I did — and I wish I had perished that day! 

Oedipus 

Well, you will come to that, unless you tell the honest truth. 

Herdsman 

No, I lose more if I speak. 

518 



Oedipus the King 


Oedipus 

The fellow is bent, I think, on more delays. . . 

Herdsman 

No, no! I said before that I gave it to him 

Oedipus 

Where did you get it? In your own house, or from another? 

Herdsman 

Not my own — got it from a man. 

Oedipus 

From whom of the citizens here? from what home? 

Herdsman 

Stop, for the gods’ love, master; do not ask any more! 

Oedipus 

You are lost if I have to question you again. 

Herdsman 

It was a child, then, of the house of Laius. 

Oedipus 

A slave? or one bom of his own blood? 

Herdsman 

Ah me! I am on the dreaded brink of speech. 

Oedipus 

And I of hearing ... yet I must hear. 

Herdsman 

You must know, then, that it was said to be his own child — but 
your lady inside could best say how these things are. 

Oedipus 


What? She gave it to you? 


519 



Herdsman 


Sophocles 


Yes, O King, 
For what end? 


Oedipus 


Herdsman 

That 1 should do away with it. 

Oedipus 


Her own child, the wretch? 

Herdsman 

Yes, from fear of evil prophecies. 

Oedipus 


What were they? 


Herdsman 

The tale ran that he must kill his father. 


Oedipus 

Why, then, did you give him up to this old man? 

Herdsman 

Through pity, master, thinking he would take him away to an- 
other land, from which he himself came; but he saved him for the 
direst woe. For if you are what this man says, then you were bom 
to misery. 

Oedipus 

Oh, oh! All proven — all true! You light, may I now look my last 
on you — who have been found cursed in birth, cursed in wedlock, 
cursed in the shedding of blood! 

{He rushes into the palace.) 


Chorus 

1st strophe 

Alas, you generations of men, how mere a shadow do I count 
your life! Where, where is the mortal who wins more of happiness 


520 



Oedipus the King 

than what seems such, and, after the semblance, a falling away? 
Yours is a fate that warns me— yours, yours, unhappy Oedipus— to 
call no earthly creature blessed. 

1st antistrophe 

For he, O Zeus, sped his shaft with peerless skill, and won the 
prize of an all-prosperous fortune; he killed the maiden with crooked 
talons who sang darkly; he arose for our land as a tower a gainst 
death. 

2nd strophe 

But now whose story is more grievous in men’s ears? Who is a 
more wretched captive to fierce plagues and troubles, with all his 
life reversed? 

Alas, renowned Oedipus! The same bounteous place of rest suf- 
ficed you, as child and as father also, that you should make on it 
your nuptial couch. Oh, how can the soil in which thy father sowed, 
unhappy one, have suffered thee in silence so long? 

2nd antistrophe 

Time the all-seeing has found you out despite yourself; he judges 
the monstrous marriage by which begetter and begotten have long 
been one. 

Alas, child of Laius, would that I had never seen you! I wail as 
one who pours a dirge from his lips; truly, it was you who gave me 
new life, and througli you darkness has fallen on my eyes. 

Second Messenger {from the palace) 

You who are always most honored in this land, what deeds shall 
you hear, what deeds behold, what burden of sorrow shall be yours, 
if, true to your race, you still care for the house of Laius? For I 
believe that neither the Danube nor Phasis could wash this house 
clean, so many are the ills that it shrouds, or will soon bring to light 
— ^ills done not unknowingly, but purposely. Those griefs smart most 
which are of our own choice. 

Chorus 

Indeed those which we knew before do not fall short of lamenta- 
tion; besides them, what do you announce? 

Second Messenger 

This is the shortest tale to tell and hear: our royal lady Jocasta is 
dead. 


521 



Sophocles 


Chorus 

Poor unlucky one! How, how? 

Second Messenger 

By her own hand. The worse pain in what has passed is not for 
you, for it is not your place to see it. Nevertheless, so far as my own 
memory serves, you shall learn that unhappy woman’s fate. 

When, frantic, she had passed within the vestibule, she rushed 
straight to her marriage bed, clutching her hair with the fingers of 
both hands; once within the chamber, she dashed the doors together 
at her back; then called the name of Laius, long since a corpse, 
mindful of that son, bom long ago, by whom the father was slain, 
leaving the mother to breed cursed offspring with his own. 

And she wailed the marriage by which, miserably, she had borne 
a twofold brood, husband by husband, children by her child. And 
how thereafter she perished is more than I know. For with a shriek 
Oedipus burst in and would not allow us to watch her to the end; 
on him, as he mshed around, our eyes were set. To and fro he went, 
asking us to give him a sword — asking where he should find the 
wife who was no wife, but a mother whose womb had borne both 
himself and his children. And, in his frenzy, a power above man 
was his guide; for it was none of us mortals who were near. And 
with a s^iek, as though someone beckoned him on, he sprang at 
the double doors, and from their sockets forced the bending bolts, 
and rushed into the room. 

There we beheld the woman han^g by the neck in a twisted 
noose of swinging cords. But he, when he saw her, with a dread, 
deep cry of misery, loosed the halter by which she hung. And when 
the woman was stretched upon the ground, then the sequel was ter- 
rible to see. For he tore from her clothes the golden brooches with 
which she was decked, and lifted them, and struck out his eyeballs, 
uttering words like these: “No more shall you look upon such hor- 
rors as I was suffering and working! long enough have you looked 
on those whom you ou^t never to have seen, failed in knowledge 
of those whom I yearned to know — from now on you shall be dark!” 

To such a terrible refrain, not once, but often he struck his eyes; 
and at eadi Mow the bloody eyeballs sprinkled his beard, not with 
slu ggi sh drops of gore, but all at once a dark shower of blood came 
down like hail. 


522 



Oedipus the King 

From the deeds of two such ffls have broken forth, not on one 
alone, but with mingled woe for man and wife. The old happiness 
of their ancestral fortune was once happiness indeed; but ^ay 
lamentation, ruin, death, shame, all earthly ills that can be named- 
all, all are theirs. 

Chorus 

And has the sufferer now any respite from p ain ? 

Second Messenger 

He cries for someone to unbar the gates and show to all the 
Thebans his father’s slayer, his mother’s — ^the unholy word must not 
pass my lips — ^proposing to cast himself out of the land, and no 
longer make the house cursed by his own curse. However, he lacks 
strength, and someone to guide his steps; for the anguish is more 
than man may bear. And he will show you this also; for look, the 
bars of the gates are withdrawn, and soon you shall behold a sight 
which even he who abhors it must pity. 

{The central door of the palace is now opened. Oedipus comes out, 
leaning on attendants; bloody stains are still upon his face.) 


Chorus 

O awful fate for men to see, O most dreadful of all that have 
met my eyes! Unhappy one, what madness has come on you? Who 
is the unearthly foe that, with a bound of more than mortal range, 
has made your ill-starred life his prey? 

Oh, O you unlucky one! No, 1 cannot even look at you, though 
there is much that I would ask and learn, much that draws my wist- 
ful gaze — with such a shuddering do you fill me! 

Oedipus 

Oh, Oh, miserable man that I am! Where, where am I carried in 
my misery? How is my voice swept abroad on the wings of the air? 
O my Fate, how far have you sprung! 

Chorus 

To a dreadful place, awful in men’s ears, awful in their sight. 


Oedipus 


1st strophe 


O you horror of darkness that enfolds me, unspeakable visitant, 
resistless, sped by a wind too fair! 


523 



Sophocles 


Ah me! and once again, ah me! 

How my soul is pierced by the stab of these goads, and by the 
memory of sorrows! 

Chorus 

Yes, amid sorrows so many a twofold pain may well be yours to 
mourn and to bear. 


Oedipus 

, 1st antistrophe 

Ah, friend, you still are steadfast in your care of me — ^you still 
have patience to care for the blind man! Your presence is not hid 
from me — ^no, dark though I am, yet I know your voice full well. 

Chorus 

Man of dreadful deeds, how could you quench your vision like 
this? What more than human power urged you? 


Oedipus 

2nd strophe 

Apollo, friends, Apollo was he who brought these sorrows to pass, 
my 3headful, dreadful sorrows; but the hand that struck the eyes 
was mine, miserable man that I am! Why should I see, when sight 
can show me nothing sweet? 

Chorus 


You speak rightly. 

Oedipus 

Tell me, friends, what can I look at now, what can I love, what 
greeting can touch my ear with joy? Hurry, lead me out of the land, 
friends, lead me away, me the utterly lost, the three times cursed, 
the mortal most abhorred by heaven! 

Chorus 

Miserable both for your fortune and for your knowledge; I wish 
I had never known you! 

Oedipus 


2nd antistrophe 

May that man die — ^whoever he was — ^who freed me in the mead- 
ows from the cruel chains that bound my feet, who saved me from 


524 



Oedipus the King 

death and gave me back to life — what a thankless deed! If I had 
died then, I would not now be so deep a grief to my friends— and 
to my soul. 

Chorus 

I would have preferred this too. 

/■ 

Oedipus 

I would not have come to shed my father’s blood, nor been called 
among men the husband of her from whom I sprang; but now am I 
forsaken by the gods, son of a defiled mother, successor to his bed 
who gave me my own miserable being; and if there is still a grief 
surpassing griefs, it has become the lot of Oedipus. 

Chorus 

I do not know how I can say that you have counseled well; for 
you would be better dead than living and blind. 

Oedipus 

Do not tell me I have not acted wisely; do not even advise me 
any more. For, if I had sights I do not know how I could ever look 
on my father, when I come to the place of the dead, or on my 
miserable mother, since against both I have sinned such sins that 
strangling cannot punish. But do you think that the sight of children 
born as mine were bom was lovely for me to look upon? No, no, 
not lovely to my eyes ever! No, nor was this town wiA its towered 
walls, nor the sacred statues of the gods, since I, three times cursed 
— I, noblest of the sons of Thebes — have doomed myself to know 
these no longer, by my own command that all should thrust away 
the impious one — even him whom gods have shown to be unholy — 
and of the race of Laius! 

After bearing such a stain upon me, was I to look with steady 
eyes upon these people? No, no; if there were a way to choke the 
fountain of hearing, I would not have hesitated to make a dark, 
still prison of this body, so I would not have to know either sight 
or sound; for it is sweet that our thoughts should dwell b^ond the 
sphere of griefs. 

O Cithaeron, why did you shelter me? When I was given to you, 
why did you not kill me outright, so that I would never have had to 
reveal my birth to men? O Polybus — O Corinth, and you that I 

525 



Sophocles 

called the ancient house of my fathers, what a fair child 1 was when 
you held me; yet what ills were festering beneath! For now I am 
evil and of evil birth. O you three roads and you secret j^en! you 
forest and narrow way wWe three paths meet! all you who drank 
from my hands the blood of that fa&er who was my own! Do you 
recall what crimes I committed for you to see? And then when I 
came here, what fresher crimes I went on to? 

0 you, that in marriage gave me birth, and when you had brought 
me into the world, again bore children to your child; you made an 
incest of fathers, brothers, sons — ^brides, wives,* iliothers — ^yes, all the 
foulest shame that men are capable of! No, but it is not ri^t to 
talk about what it is not right to do! Quick, quick, for the love of 
the gods; hide me somewhere beyond this land! Kill me! Throw me 
into the sea, where you will never have to look at me again! Come! 
Suffer yourselves to touch my awful body! Listen, do not be afraid! 
My plague is not catching; it contaminates no one but me! 

Chorus 

No, no, here is Creon in time to hear you and decide if he should 
do what you ask; for he is the only one left to guard our land in 
your place. 

Oedipus 

Ah me! how can I face him? What claim to grace can be shown 
on my part? For in the past I have been wholly false to him. 

Creon 

1 have not come in mockery, Oedipus, nor to reproach you with 
any bygone fault. (To the attendants) But you, if you respect the 
d^dren of men no more, revere at least the all-nurturing flame of 
our lord the Sun, do not show so nakedly a pollution as he is — one 
vdiich ndther earth can welcome, nor hdy rain, nor light. No, take 
him into the house as quickly as you can; for it is best that relatives 
alcme diould see and hear a relative’s sorrow. 

Oedipus 

For the gods’ love — since you have done a ‘gentle violence to my 
prophecy about you, since you have come in a spirit so noble to me, 
who mn a man most vile — ^grant me one honor, for I will speak 
for your good, not my own. 

526 



Oedipus the Kino 


Creon 

And what wish do you want from me? 

Oedipus 

Cast me out of this land at once, to a place where no mortal shall 
be foimd to greet me again. 


Creon 

This I would have done, be sure, but I wanted first to learn my 
duty from the god. 


Oedipus 

No, his will has been shown in full — to let me die, the parricide, 
the unholy one, that I am. 

Creon 

Such was his meaning; yet, seeing what has happened, it is better 
to learn clearly what should be done. 

Oedipus 

Will you, then, ask the god about such a poor fool as I am? 

Creon 

Yes, for you yourself will now surely put faith in the god. 

Oedipus 

Yes; and on you I lay this charge, to you I will make this en- 
treaty: give her who is within such burial as you yourself would 
want; for you will rightly render the last rites to your own. But for 
me — ^never let this city of my father be condemned to have me 
living in it, while I live: no, allow me to live in the hills, wh^ 
Cithaeron is, famed as mine — ^which my mother and father, .while 
they lived, set for my appointed tomb— so that 1 may die by their 
decree who sought to slay me. Of this much I am sure — ^that neither 
sickness nor anything else can destroy me; for I was snatched from 
death, in reserve for some strange doom. 

No, let my fate go where it will: but about my children pray 
3N>u, Creon, take no care about my sons; they are men, so that they 
can never lack the means to Uve. But my two girls, poor unlucky ones 

527 



Sophocles 

— who never knew my table spread away from them or lacked their 
father’s presence, but ever in all things shared my daily bread — 
pray you, care for them; and — ^if you can — allow me to touch 
them with my hands and to indulge my grief. Grant it, prince, grant 
it, noble heart! Ah, if I could once touch them with my hands, I would 
think that they were with me, even as when I had sight. 

(Creon’s attendcmts lead in the children, Antigone and Ismene.) 

Ha? O gods, can it be my loved ones that I hear sobbing? Can 
Creon have taken pity on me and sent me my children, my darlings? 
Am I right? • 


Creon 

Yes, it is my contriving, for I knew your former joy in them — 
the joy that now is yours. 


Oedipus 

Then you are blessed and, as a reward for this, may heaven prove 
to you a kinder guardian than it has to me! My children, where 
are you? Come here — ^here to the hands of him whose mother was 
your own, the hands whose acts have made your father’s once bright 
eyes orbs like these — ^his, who seeing nothing, knowing nothing, be- 
came your father by her from whom he sprang! For you also do I 
weep — I cannot look upon you — when I think of the bitter life 
in days to come which men will make you live. To what company 
of the citizens will you come, to what festival, from which you will 
not go bathed in tears, instead of sharing in the holiday? But when 
you are ripe for marriage, who shall he be, who shall be the man, 
my daughters, that will risk taking such reproaches which will hurt 
both my offspring and yours? What misery is lacking? Your father 
killed his father; he had seed from her who bore him, and begot 
you at the sources of his own being! Such are the taunts that will 
be cast upon you; and who then wiU wed you? No such man lives, 
no, it cannot be, my children; you must wither in barren maidenhood. 

Ah, Creon, hear me— since you are the only father left to them, 
for we, their parents, are lost, both of us. Do not allow them to 
wander poor and unwed, who are your kinswomen; do not lower 
them to the level of my woes. No, pity them, when you see them 
at this tender age so utterly forlorn, except for you. Signify your 
promise, generous man, by the touch of your hand! To you, my 
children, I would have given much counsel, if your minds w^e 

528 



Oedipus the King 

mature; but now I would have this be your prayer ^that you live 

where occasion allows, and that the life which is your portion may be 
happier than your father’s. 

Creon 

Your grief has had large enough scope. Pass into the house. 

Oedipus 

I must obey, though it is not at all sweet. 

Creon 

Yes, for it is time that all things are good. 

Oedipus 

Do you know, then, on what conditions I will go? 

Creon 

Name them, so I shall know them. 

Oedipus 

Send me to live beyond this land. 

Creon 

You ask me for what the gods must give. 

Oedipus 

They will grant that; for I have become most hateful to the gods. 

Creon 

Then you will have your wish soon. 

Oedipus 

Do you consent? 

Creon 

It is not my habit to speak when I lack knowledge. 

Oedipus 

Then it’s time to lead me away. 


529 



Sophocles 


^ Creon 

'' Come, then — but let your children go. 

Oedipus 

No, do not take them from me! 


Creon 


Do not try to be master in all things, for the mastery which you 
won has not followed you through life. 


C!horus 


Dwellers in our native Thebes, look, look, this is Oedipus, who 
knew the famed riddle, and was a most mighty man; who did not 
gaze on his fortune with envy? Look into what a stormy sea of 
trouble he has come! 

Therefore, while our eyes wait to see the destined final day, we 
must call no one happy who is of the human race, until he has 
crossed life’s border, free from pain. 


530 



Further Reading 

Robinson Crusoe by Daniel Defoe 


Minto, W. Daniel Defoe, (English Men of Letters.) New York: the 
MACMILLAN CO., 1885. 

Trent, W. P. Daniel Defoe, How to Know Him, Indianapolis: the bobbs- 

MERRILL COMPANY, 1916. 


Walden by Henry David Thoreau 


Krutch, J. W. Henry David Thoreau. New York: william sloane 
ASSOCUTES, 1948. 

Sanbwrn, F. B. The Life of Henry David Thoreau. Boston: houohton 
MIFFLIN COMPANY, 1917. 


Van Doken, M. Henry David Thoreau: A Critical Study. Boston: 

HOUOHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY, 1916. 


The Meditations of Marcus Aurelius 

Arnold, M. Essays in Criticism. Oxford: oxford university press, 
1918. 

Bussell, F. W. Marcus Aurelius and the Later Stoics. New Yoric: 
C. SCRIBNER’S SONS, 1910. 


531 



