









THE 

LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

OK 


ROBINSON CRUSOE. 





THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

OF 

ROBINSON CRUSOE, Etc. 


1868. 


SlLLi^JO A:SD sons, printers, GUILIJFORD. 



THE PREFACE 

TO THE ORIGINAL EDITION, 1719. 

TF ever the story of any private man’s adventures in the world 
were worth making public, and were acceptable when 
published, the editor of this account thinks this will be so. 

The wonders of this man’s life exceed all that (he thinks) is to 
be found extant ; the life of one man being scarce capable of a 
greater variety. 

The story is told with modesty, with seriousness, and with a 
religious application of events to the uses to which wise men always 
apply them, viz,, to the instruction of others by this example, 
and to justify and honour the wisdom of Providence in all the 
variety of our circumstances, let them happen how they will. 

The editor believes the thing to be a just history of fact ; 
neither is there any appearance of fiction it it: and however 
thinks, -because all such things are despatched, that the improve- 
ment of it,>s well to the diversion as to the instruction of the 
reader, will be the same ; and as such, he thinks, without farther 
compliment to the world, he does them a great service in the 
publication. 





iNTjJli^pUCTION TO THE PRESENT 
EDITION. 

— * v -*- " 

TO GIRLS AND BOYS—YOUNG AND OLD—EVERYVVHERE. 

O N this twenty-fifth day of April, in the year one thousand eight 
hundred and sixty nine, which is exactly a century and a half 
since his first appearance in the world, it does seem like an act of 
presumptuous supererogation to say, — * Allow me to introduce to you 
Mr. Robinson Crusoe, and his strange surprising adventures!' Jiideed. 
I can almost hear a reply, in a million voices — of many languages, 
from all points of the compass — ' Why, we have known him ever 
since we can remember !' 

That may be; yet, without presumption, I think I shall be able to 
tell some, at least, of my readers more than they already know. 
This, then, must bo my apology. Those who know * all about it,’ and 
need no ‘ Introduction,^ may turn over a few leaves, and take their 
old acquaintance by the hand, without further ceremony. 

The historic original of Robinson Crusoe was Alexander Selcraig, 
the seventh son of John Selcraig and Euphan Mackie, He was born 
at Largo in the county of Fife, in Scotland, a.d. 1676 ; and went to 
sea in 1695, changing his name to Selkirk. He was not again heard 
of until 1701, when he returned to his native place. On the 18th 
May, 1703, he sailed from the Downs in the Cinque Forts galley, 
96 tons^ 18 guns, and 63 men, Charles Pickering, captain ; Thomas 
Stradling, lieutenant ; and himself, Selkirk, sailing-master. On the 
24th NoveHhber, the same year, they anchored at La Granda, Brazil, 
where Capt. Pickering died, and the command devolved upon Strad- 
ling. They left on the 8th December, and on the 10th February, 
the following year, cast anchor at the Island of Juan Fernandez. 
After taking in wood and water they sailed on the 29th February in 



X 


INTRODUCTION. 


pursuit of a French ship, but returned in the month of September. 
In consequence of frequent quarrels between himself and Stradling, 
and a fear that the ship was not seaworthy, Selkirk determined to 
leave the vessel ; and when she departed at the end of the month, 
all his effects, with additional necessaries, were taken on shore, and 
he remained alone on the island. 

On the 2nd February, 1709, the privateer ships Duke and Duchci>s, 
commanded by Captain Woodes Eogers, anchored at Juan Fernandez, 
and found Selkirk there. He engaged in the capacity of mate on 
board the Duke, and they sailed on the 12th of the same month, 
arriving at Erith, on the Thames, the 14th October, 1711. 

In the following year, Capt. Woodes Eogers published an account 
of his voyages, in which he relates the finding of Selkirk, and how 
he had lived alone on the island * four years and four months.' 
Another officer of the same expedition, Capt . Edward Cooke, pub- 
lished a similar volume during the same year, and states on the title- 
page : — ‘ Wherein an account is given of Mr. Alexander Selkirk, his 
manner of living and taming some wild beasts during the four yeais 
and four months he lived upon the uninhabited Island of Juan 
Fernandez.* Sir Eichard Steele appears to have had an interview 
with Selkirk soon after the arrival of the latter in England, and made 
his adventures the subject of No. 26 of The Efiglishman, published 
in December, 1713. 

These are all the historical resources known to have been available 
for the'production of ‘ Eobinson Crusoe.* 

I may, however, add a few particulars at to the subsequent career 
of Selkirk. His share of prize money, while on board the ship Duke, 
amounted to £800; which having received, he set out for his native 
place, and arrived there early in 1712. After investing his money he 
appears to have remained in Largo until 1717, when he again went to 
sea, leaving his property in charge of his relations. He never returned, 
though he was heard of at times from Bristol, Liverpool, and London ; 
but he became a lieutenant in the Eoyal Navy, and died in that 
capacity on board his Majesty’s ship Weymouth, in the year 1723. 

The first attempt to collect all the facts that could be ascertained 
about Selkirk was by Isaac James, of Bristol, who, in 1800, published 
a small volume, entitled ‘ Providence Displayed ; or, The Eemark- 
able Adventures of Alexander Selkirk,* etc., etc. A few additional 
^rticulars are contained in ‘ The Life of Alexander Selkirk,* by John 
Howell, London, 1829. The most recent work, I believe, on the sub- 
ject is entitled, * Crusoniana ; or. Truth versus Fiction, elucidated in 
a History of the Islands of Juan Fernandez, by a Eetired Governor 
of that Colony. Manchester. Published by the author. 1843.* 
The author was Lieut.-Col. Thomas Sutcliffe, and his account of 
Selkirk forms the second chapter of his work, pp. 14-52. 



INTRODUCTION. 


xi 


I have yet to state one interesting fact, on the authority of the 
Panama Star and Deraid of 6th October, 1868 ; namely, that a 
monument had been executed by Messrs. J. Child and Son, Val- 
paraiso, for erection on the island of Juan Fernandez. Its inscrip- 
tion will tell its own tale : 

In Mbmoby of 
ALBXANDEE SBLKIBK, 
makineb, 

A native of Largo, in the County of Fife, Scotland, 

Who lived on this Island, in complete Solitude, 

For four years and four months. 


He was landed from the Cinque Ports galley, 96 tons, 
18 guns, A.D. 1704, and was taken off in the 
Duke^ privateer, 12th February, 1709. 


He died Lieutenant of H.M.S. Weymouth, 
A.D. 1723, aged 47 years. 


This Tablet is erected near Selkirk’s look-out, 

By Commodore Powell and the Officers 
of H.M.S. Topaze, A.D. 1868. 

The above, erected in a desolate island on the opposite side of the 
globe, after the lapse of a hundred and fifty years, is evidence of the 
force of intellectual genius exerted by the writer who first made 
Selkirk famous. This brings us back to the author of * Bobinson 
Crusoe,* whose imperishable work will still exist, in all its freshness, 
when the most endurable monument of marble shall have been re- 
solved into its original dust. 

The great reputation of * Bobinson Crusoe * has attached a degree 
of interest to every fact connected with its history. As to the 
authorship of the work. Nearly fifty years after its first publication 
a iiimour was alluded to, in the ‘ Biographia Britannica,’ that Dr. 
Arbuthnot was the writer ; but no reason was given, and the account 
concludes with stating : * It was the delectable offspring of the 
teeming brain of Daniel Defoe, a writer famous in his generation for 
politics and poetry.* 

A more circumstantial tissue of hearsay appeared about eight years 
later, when Mr. T. Warton gravely stated that the Eev. Benjamin 
HoUowiiy, of Middleton Stony, told him that Lord Sunderland 
assured him that the first volume of * Bobinson Crusoe * was written 
by the Earl of Oxford, while a prisoner in the Tower, ‘ as an amuse- 
ment under confinement,’ and was given to Defoe, who visited him 
there ; and that Defoe printed it as his own, with his lordship’s ap- 
probation, adding the second volume, * the inferiority of which is 



xii 


INTRODUCTION. 


generally acknowledged.* Now, 1st — Lord Oxford was so prostrated 
by illness during the greater part of his imprisonment, that it was 
matter of speculation whether or not he would live to be tried. He 
was incapable of preparing his defence, and on that account the 
House of Lords, from time to time, granted his petitions for post- 
ponement of his trial. He was, therefore, in no capacity to write a 
romance ‘ as an amusement under confinement.* 2nd — He was 
discharged from his impeachment by the House of Lords two years 
before ‘ Eobinson Crusoe * was heard of. 3rd — Only the Earl of 
Oxford and Defoe could have originally known if there had been any 
foundation of truth in the matter, and there is not a tittle of evidence 
that either ever uttered a word thereon. 4th — Lord Sunderland 
would have been one of the last to whom they would have communi- 
cated the secret, because : 5th — During the whole of the impeach- 
ment against Lord Oxford, Lord Sunderland spoke and voted against 
him. There could be no intercourse between the prisoner and the 
man who believed him a traitor, and sought to bring his head to the 
block. 6th — Defoe was in the service of the Government, and under 
Lord Sunderland’s power during Lord Oxford’s imprisonment, and 
he so continued when ^ Eobinson Crusoe * was published. Self-in- 
terest would make him reticent. 7th — The smallest share of critical 
acumen is sufficient to decide not only that the second volume of 
‘Eobinson Crusoe* is not inferior to the first, but that the two 
volumes are equally the offspring of the same parent. 

It seems the singular fate of human greatness to be misunderstood, 
disparaged, and comparatively forgotten by the generations imme- 
diately succeeding. Shakespeare, Milton, Queen Anne, the Duke of 
Marlborough, Daniel Defoe, and many others might be mentioned as 
instances of this neglect of posterity. Great men ultimately, however, 
become incorporated with the history of their country ; and some 
later literary research brings to light much that had been obscured, 
and enables after-ages to form more accurate judgment of their 
■characters and genius. Defoe is now much better known than he 
was a hundred years ago. Going back to the pamphlets and news- 
papers of the period, it becomes obvious that no doubt whatever 
existed at the time as to the authorship of ‘ Eobinson Crusoe.* In 
the year of its first appearance, and even before the second volume 
was published, a mutilated abridgment of the first was clandestinely 
printed for T. Cox, of the Amsterdam Coffee-House, in London. 
When remonstrated with and threatened, he only replied by an 
advertisement in Tlfie Flying Post, in which he abused and 4nsulted 
Defoe ; proving that, although the work was published aijonymously, 
there was, even then, no doubt as to the authorship. In the preface 
to the first edition of the second volume Defoe alludes to this trans- 
action. In the same year also, Charles Gildon published a satirical 
pamphlet, entitled ‘ The life and Strange Surprizing Adventures of 



INTRODUCTION, 


xiii 


Mr. D De F , of London, Hosier, who has lived above fifty 

Years by himself in the Kingdoms of North and South Britain. 
The various Shapes he has appeared in, and the Discoveries he has 
made for the Benefit of his Country. In a Dialogue between Him,, 
Bobinson Crusoe, and his Man Friday. With Bemarks Serious ana 

Comical upon the Life of Crusoe.* In * An Epistle to D 

D’l^— e, the reputed author of Bobinson Crusoe,* the writer con-| 
fesses that 'Crusoe* was already 'famed from Tuttle Street to 
Limehouse-hole. There is not an old woman,* says he, * that can 
go to the price of it, but buys thy " Life and Adventures,’* and 
leaves it as a Legacy, with the " Pilgrim’s Progress,” the " Practice 
of Pioity,” and " God’s Bevenge against Murther,” to her Posterity.’ 

Defoe does not seem to have replied to the above ; but when, a 
few years later, Bishop Benjamin Hoadley inserted some strictures 
in the London Journal about ' Bobinson Crusoe * filling his pockets 
with biscuit, after having previously divested himself of his clothes, 
Defoe replied very warmly in Applebee^s Journal, In like manner he 
was highly incensed at one of the pirates, who then infested the 
coasts of Carolina and Virginia, for having named his ship Bobinson 
Crusoe^ and calls him ' a most bloody-minded murdering rogue.* A 
collateral and inferential bearing on the fact of Defoe’s authorship 
may be found in the chagrin of the booksellers against Mr. William 
Taylor, for his having secured to himself the great profits arising 
from the publication of ' Bobinson Crusoe,’ and that seven or more 
of them shortly afterwards entered into a confederacy for the joint 
j)ublication of such works of fiction as Defoe might write. 

Another unfounded rumour of the generation after Defoe’s decease 
was, that Selkirk had written some memoir or journal, which he 
placed in Defoe’s hands in order that he might digest it for publica- 
tion, but that the latter used the documents for his own purpose to 
the damage of their author — and then returned the papers to Selkirk, 
telling him his history would not sell. The answer is simple and 
complete. I have stated that Selkirk returned to England in 1711 — 
that the volume of Captain Woodes Bogers, and that of Captain 
Edward Cooke, were both published in 1712 ; followed by Sir Eichard 
Steele’s paper in 1713. These three accounts contained what Selkirk 
had to say of himself, and being printed, they became public property. 
Yet they remained otherwise entirely unappropriated until Defoe’s 
work appeared in 1719 ; and, in ‘ Bobinson Crusoe,’ nothing has been 
discovered to be historic fact except what he gathered from those 
previously published works. I have mentioned the titles of sub- 
sequent accounts of Selkirk, containing many additional particulars 
of his adventures, but none of these are to be found in ' Bobinson 
Crusoe.* Mr. James and others, to whom we are indebted for in- 
vestigating the history of Selkirk, tell us that ' John Selkirk, a weaver 
at Largo, in 1794, was in possession of the gun and chest which his 



XIV 


INTRODUCTION, 


great-uncle brought from Juan Fernandez; and they also had a 
drinking cup of cocoa-nut shell, tipped with silver, which had been 
his property.' These treasures are known to be still in existence ; 
but of those who had carefully preserved such relics, Mr. James 
states (in 1800) : * Even Selkirk’s relations do not know that he left 
any journals behind him.* The conclusion is evident that Defoe 
fairly acquired, from published accounts, some of the fundamental 
incidents of * Eobinsou Crusoe's * life ; but the ever-varying events 
that fill up the historic monotony, — the useful and improving 
moralities, — and the fascinating style, — are all his own. 

It may add to the interest of * Eobinson Crusoe,* with young readers, 
to know something of the circumstances under which it was written. 
There is every reason to believe that Defoe was then quite easy as to 
his pecuniary circumstances ; yet there is perhaps no parallel in the 
world’s history to his marvellous literary industry. The following is 
an epitome of his known labours, from the appearance of the first 
volume of ‘ Eobinson Crusoe,’ on the Jlfith of. April, 1719 (pp. 366), to 
the publication, on the 6th “Sf "’Au^st, 1720, of the' third volume 
(now never reprinted), entitled * Serious Eeflections during the Life 
and Surprizing Adventures of Eobinson Crusoe. With his Vision of 
the Angelick World,* etc. 

Besides holding a very responsible though objectionable office of 

* Censor of Public Journals,* under the government of George I., he 
edited, at the same time, a monthly publication called Mercurius 
PoUficus, each number containing not less than 64 pages ; a Weekly 
Journal; — occasionally The Whitehall Evening Post, published thrice 
weekly and part of the time a paper called The Daily Post, In 
addition to these, the first volume of Crusoe was immediately followed 
by * Some Account of the Life, etc., of Henry Baron Goertz ’ (pp. 46). 

* A Letter to the Dissenters * (pp. 27). ‘ The Anatomy of Exchange 

Alley * (pp. 64). Then appeared the second volume of * Eobinson 
Crusoe,* published on the 20th of August, 1719 (pp. 380). This was 
succeeded by ‘ Dickory Cronke * (pp. 64). ‘ Charity still a Christian 
Virtue* (pp. 72). ‘The King of Pirates, Captain Avery ’ (pp. 100). 
‘ The Chimera* (pp. 76). ‘ The life and Adventures of Mr. Duncan 
Campbell* (pp. 344). Campbell's ‘Pacquet, an Apparition* (pp. 14). 
^Memoirs of a Cavalier* (pp. 350). ‘The life. Adventures, and 
Piracies of Captain Singleton ’ (pp. 344). After which appeared the 
third volume of ‘ Eobinson Crusoe,* published on the 6th August, 
1720 (pp. 370). ^ 

The aggregate of Defoe's literary labours, during about a year and 
a half, including * Eobinson Crusoe,' exceeds four thousand octavo 
printed pages. 

I must mention another fact connected with the history of * Eobin- 
son Crusoe,' and its great popularity. Even so minute a circum- 



INTRODUCTION. 


XV 


stance as the place where it was written has not escaped controversy, 
and the claims of different localities have been numerous. Most of 
these claims rest upon an erroneous supposition that Defoe was, at 
that time, under the frowns of Government, and obliged to conceal 
himself. A house in Halifax, Yorkshire, is pointed out in the 
history of that town. Gateshead, in the county of Durham, has 
claimed the honour. A house in Harrow Alley, Whitechapel Market, 
has been said to be the birthplace of both ‘ Bobinson Crusoe * and 
the ' Journal of the Plague,* although three years intervened between 
their publication. A correspondent assured one of Defoe’s biographers 
that ‘ Bobinson Crusoe ’ was written in the back chamber over the 



defob’s UOUSB at stoke KKWINOTON. 


washhouse of a cottage in the little village of Hartley, in Kent. It 
might be deemed conclusive that Gildon, writing at the time, lays 
the scene of the scurrilous dialogue already alluded to, in a field at 
Stoke Newington, where Defoe would be close to his home. We now 
know from more recent researches, that he was in London, where his 
duties under the Government imperatively required his presence, — 
that he was under no necessity of concealment : — and that * Eobin- 
son Crusoe * could only have been written in his own house at 
Stoke Newington. 

But I must now acquaint such readers of * Bobinson Crusoe * as 
are not already aware of the fact, that besides having Alexander 
Selkirk as an * historical original,’ there is enclosed, in an occult 



xvi 


INTRODUCTION. 


manner, throughout its pages, an * emblematic original,* namely, that 
* Crusoe * contains the principal events of Defoe’s own life. 

The first and second volumes contain all the narrative and romantic 
part of ' Eobinson Crusoe but I have stated that there is a third 
volume, now never reprinted, and little known, entitled * Serious Be- 
flections,* etc. It is filled with metaphysical disquisitions on morals 
and religion, divided into chapters and sections : ‘ On Solitude,*-* On 
Honesty,* * On Immorality of Conversation,’ * On the Present State 
of Eeligion in the World,* * On Divine Providence,* * On the Propor- 
tion between the Numbers of Christians and Pagans,’ and * A Vision 
of the Angelic World.’ From this brief enumeration of principal 
topics it will be obvious that, however interesting these c^ressive 
‘ Eeflections * may be to the Christian philosopher, this third volume 
is not adapted to the same class of readers as the two narrative 
volumes. It wants that simple naturalness, the charm of reality — 
which, in them, is spread over the commonest incidents ; and yet — 
all concentrating in one sohtary man — combine to perfect the 
fascination of the story. 

The above may be sufficient to serve two purposes : first, why the 
volume of ‘ Serious Eeflections * has rarely been reprinted with tlie 
narrative, and is also omitted in the present edition ; and secondly, 
why I have thus mentioned it in this Introduction, namely, that the 
preface to the third volume discloses the fact that the vicissitudes of 
Defoe’s own life are parabolically related in the narrative volumes 
of the work. 

Ih this preface he aflSrms that * the story, though allegorical, is a^"ja 
historical. Further, that there is a man alive, and well known too, 
the actions of whose life are the just subject of these volumes, and 
to whom all or most part of the story most directly alludes ; this may 
be depended upon for truth. Without letting the reader into a 
nearer explication of the matter, I proceed to let him know, that the 
happy deductions I have employed myself to make from all the cir- 
cumstances of my story, will abundantly make him amends for his 
not having them explained by the original. In a word, there's not 
a circumstance in the imaginary story, but has its just allusion to a 
real story, and chimes part for part, and step for step, with the in- 
imitable “ Life of Eobinson Crusoe.” * With respect to the fictitious 
representation of Crusoe’s forced confinement in an island, he says, 
‘ ’Tis as reasonable to represent one kind of imprisonment by another, 
as it is to represent anything that really exists by that which exists 
not. Had the common way of writing a man’s private history been 
taken, and I had given you the conduct or life of a man you knew, 
and whose misfortunes and infirmities perhaps you had sometimes 
unjustly triumphed over; all I could have said would have yielded 
no diversion, and perhaps have scarce obtained a reading, or at best 
no attention. The teacher, like a greater, having no honour in his 
own country.’ 



INTRODUCTION. 


xvii 


From this it is quite clear that Defoe had seriously considered the 
propriety, or otherwise, of writing his autobiography ; but having in 
his surprising adventures, as he goes on to say, ‘ suffered all manner 
of violences and oppressions, injurious reproaches, contempt of men, 
attacks of devils, corrections from heaven, and oppositions on earth, 
and had innumerable ups and downs in matters of fortune,' he was 
convinced that the clearing up of his own character and conduct, in 
plain words, would be an indictment against the age in which he had 
lived. That his contemporaries would either refuse to read, or would 
resent it. He therefore gave to the world the eventful story of his 
own life, and the lessons contained therein, under the ‘ emblem ' of 
‘ Eobinsdn Crusoe,* ‘without letting the reader into a nearer explica- 
tion of the matter.* 

If we could now lay open ‘The Life and Strange Surprizing 
Adventures of Eobinson Crusoe,' side by side with ‘ Memoirs of the 
Life of Daniel Defoe,' and trace throughout the parallels between 
what he calls the ‘ emblem ' and the * original,’ the results would be 
as valuable as interesting ; but the attempt would, we fear, be com- 
paratively in vain. What the author intended to be only veiled, time 
has rendered obscure, if not consigned to entire oblivion. 

Having already given the exact dates when the first editions of the 
respective volumes of Crusoe were published, I must add a few words 
as to the success of the work. The first volume was so immediately 
sold that a "second edition was published on the 12th May, only 
seventeen days after the first ; a third on the 6th June; a spurious 
edition on the 7th August ; and, on the following day, the fourth 
edition appeared. Meanwhile, the author had been busy on the 
second volume ; and there is reason to believe that its first edition, 
on the 20th August, was a very large issue. During the same year 
the two volumes were translated into German and French. From 
the 7th October, 1719, to the 19th October, 1720, the first and 
second volumes were reprinted in weekly portions, in a newspaper 
called the Original London Post, or Heathcote's Intelligencer, The 
fifth edition was an abridgment, in one volume, on the 19th November, 
1720 ; the sixth, in two volumes, 28th October, 1721 ; the seventh, 
on the 28th February, 1722 ; and the eighth, in two volumes, with 
fourteen copper-plates (called the sixth edition), on the 6th June, in 
the same year. Since then it has been translated and printed in 
Italian, Spanish, Eussian, Arabic, and almost every living language 
that has become subjected to grammar and the press. Even Latin 
and Greek are not without their translations of this immortal work. 
In English, the editions have been, and continue to be, innumerable 
— from the elegantly illustrated, gilt-leaved, and morocco-bound 
costly edition, for the aristocratic drawing-room, down, down through 
all sizes, abridgments, and prices, suited to every grade of society 



xviii INTRO D UCTION 

and every class of readers, to tlie penny, and even farthing books, 
vended only from the basket of the itinerant village hawker. 

It has been truly said that Defoe took no more of * Eobinson 
Crusoe* from the accounts of Selkirk than Shakespeare did of 
Macbeth and Hamlet from the old Scotch and Danish chronicles ; 
yet we have seen that all the materials available to Defoe had been 
published, and were therefore at the service of any other writer -from 
six to seven years, though none had made use of them before the 
genius of our author gave to the world his celebrated romance. No 
sooner, however, had the work appeared than its popularity called 
forth many imitations, some of them short-lived, but several still 
known and read. 

IMr. Wilson is mistaken in saying that the first rival of ' Crusoe * was 
‘ Philip QuarlL* The following work was published on the 3rd 
October, 1719, and it will be at once seen that the name ‘Vend- 
church * is a travestied synonym of Selkirk : * The Adventures and 
Surprizing Deliverances of James Dubourdieu and his Wife, from the 
uninhabited Part of the Island of Paradise, etc. Also the Adven- 
tures of Alexander Vendchurch, set on Shore on an Island in the 
South Sea,’ etc. The next was, ‘ The Life and Strange Surprizing 
Adventures of Major Alexander Eamkins,* etc., published the 3rd 
December, 1719. Two days afterwards appeared, * The Voyages, 
Travels, and dangerous Adventures of Captain Eichard Falconet,* 
etc. Defoe himself further contributed to the love of maritime 
adventure by writing * The King of Pirates ; Being an Account 
of the Famous Enterprizes of Captain Avery, the Mock King 
Madagascar,' etc., published on the 10th December, 1719. And 
again, on the dth of June, in the following year, appeared his ‘ Life, 
Adventures, and Piracies of the Famous Captain Singleton,* etc. 
Many of the imitations of * Crusoe * are now almost forgotten ; but I 
may mention ‘The Voyages and Adventures of Miles Phillips, a 
West Country Sailor, etc., written by Himself,* etc., published the 
26th February, 1724. The colonies of North America must also 
liave their ‘ Crusoe,’ and in December, 1725, a book was published at 
Boston, New England, entitled ‘ The Strange Adventures and 
Signal Deliverances of Mr. Philip Ashton, Jun., etc., who lived alone 
upon a Desolate Island in the Gulph of Honduras for about Sixteen 
Months.' I may also notice, in order of date, while passing, that on 
the 20th of January, 1726, was published, * A Voyage Bound the 
World by Way of the Great South Sea, etc. By Captain George 
Shelvocke.* From this book it appears that Shelvocke's ship was 
cast away, the 25th of May, 1720, on the island of Juan Fernandez, 
and that he and his crew remained there until the 6th of October in 
the same year. He fully describes the island, but mentions no 
relics of Selkirk, or of any previous human inhabitant ; and he 
appears to have been, by long absence from England, ignorant of the 
existence of ‘Eobinson Crusoe.* On the 10th of March, 1726, 



INTRODUCTION. 


XIX 


appeared, ‘ The Voyages and Adventures of Captain Bober fc Boyle,* 
etc. And in October of the same year, Dean Swift’s celebrated 
‘Travels into several Bemote Nations of the World, by Lemuc! 
Gulliver,’ etc. The longest-lived, among the strict imitations of 

* Crusoe,’ was published on the 15th of April, 1727, and is entitled, 

* The Hermit ; or. The Unparalleled Sufferings and Surprizing 
Adventures of Mr. Philip Quarll, an Englishman. Who was dis- 
covered by Mr. Dorrington, a Bristol Merchant, upon an uninhabited 
Island in the South Sea ; where he has lived above Fifty. XjgliSa'S, with- 
out any human Assistance, still continues to reside, and will not come 
away,’ This, though very inferior to * Crusoe,* is still reprinted in 
abridged form, and in numerous editions. I might go on to mention, 

‘ A Voyage to Cacklogallinia, by Captain S. Brunt,’ published the 
15th of July, 1727^ J&id ‘The Pleasant and Surprizing Adventures 
of Mr. Bobert Drury, during his Fifteen Years’ Captivity on the 
Island of Madagascar,* etc., which first appeared on the 24th of May, 
1729 ; and in which the hero is almost as perfectly isolated inland, 
among the barbarous natives, as Crusoe was on his desolate island. 
I might enumerate others that appeared between 1730 and 1750, 
when ‘ The Life and Adventures of Peter Wilkins, a Cornish Mai^ 

' Taken from his own Mouth in his Passage to England from off Cape 
Horn in America, in the Ship Hector/ was published. These, how- 
, ever, will suffice to show how large a fleet of smaller craft followed 
in the wake of that which, in 1719, began its course along the stream 
of time, having on board ^Eobinson Crusoe, of York, Mariner.’ 

\ j Thus, to recapitulate, I have given a brief account of the ‘ his- 
^ torical original ’ of this celebrated work, of its authorship, the 
^ circumstances under which it was composed, the place where it was 
written, its ‘ emblematical original,’ as enclosing an autobiography 
- of Defoe, the author, how it was received by the world, its imme- 
; diate and lasting popularity, the numerous rivals and imitations that 
' followed it. 

Shall I still keep my readers from the rich intellectual repast before 
them, by lengthening out this * grace before meat’ with any feeble 
observations and encomiums of my own ? As to the naturalness, 
the truth and simplicity, the fine sentiments, the delicate wit, the 
pure morality, the instructive vindication of the ways of Providence, 
to be found everywhere in the following pages ; all of which, and 
other unmentioned beauties, make it greatly superior to any other 
work of its kind ? lam convinced that I should not deserve thanks 
for so doing, nor even if I were to greatly extend this Introduction 
by quoting the criticisms and eloquent things said of it by a host of 
writers and men of genius. 


WiiiLiAM Lee, 





THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

OF 

ROBINSON CRUSOE, Etc. 


— 

WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a 
good family, though not of that country, my father 
being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at 
Hull : he got a good estate by merchandise/ and 
leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York, from 
whence he had married my mother, whose relations 
were named Bobinson, a very good family in that 
country, and from whom I was called Bobinson Kreutznaer ; but by 
the usual corruption of words in England, we are now called, nay we 
call ourselves, and write our name Crusoe, and so my companions 
always called me. 

I had two elder brothers, one of which was lieutenant-colonel 
to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly commanded by the 
famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk 
against the Spaniards ; what became of my second brother I never 
knew, any more than my father or mother did know what was become 
of me. 

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, my 
head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts : my father, 
who was very ancient, had given me a competent share of learning, 
as far as house education and a country frce-school generally goes, 
and designed me for the law ; but I would be satisfied with nothing 
but going to sea, and my inclination to this led me so strongly against 
the will, nay the commands of my father, and against all the en- 
treaties and persuasions of my mother and other friends, that there 






2 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


seemed to be something fatal in that propeiision of nature tendiug 
directly to the life of misery which, was to befall me. 

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent 
counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He called me one 
morning into his chamber, where ho was conhiied by the gout, and 
expostulated very warmly with me upon this subject : he asked me 



CliUbOt's i’ATHEK ENXKEATB HIM TO STAY AT HOME. 


wnat reasons more than a mere wandering inclination I had for 
leaving my father’s house and my native country, where I might be 
well introduced, and had a prospect of raising my fortunes by appli- 
cation and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. . He told me 
it was for men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring, 
superior fortunes on the other, who went abroad upon adventures, to 
rise by enterprise, and make themselves famous in undertakings of a 
nature out of the common road ; that these things were all either too 


THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


far above me, or too far below mo ; that mine was the middle state, 
or what might be called the upper station of low life, which he had 
found by long experience was the best state in the world, the most 
suited to human happiness, not exposed to the miseries and hard- 
ships, the labour and sufferings of the mechanic part of mankind, 
and not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition and envy of 
t]ie»uppor part of mankind. Ho told mo I might judge of the happi- 
ness of this state, by this one thing, viz., that this was the state of 
life which all other people envied, that kings have frequently 
lamented the miserable consequences of being born to great things, 
and wished they had been placed in the middle of the two extremes, 
between tlic mean and the great ; that the wise man gave his testi- 
mony to this as the ju&t standard of true felicity, when he prayed to 
have neither poverty or riches. 

Ho bid me observe it, and I should always find, that the calamities 
of life were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind, but 
that the middle station had the fewest disasters, and was not exposed 
to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of mankind; nay, 
they w^ere not subjected to so many distempers and uneasinesses 
either of body or mind, as those were who, by vicious living, luxury 
and extravagances on one hand, or by hard labour, want of neces- 
saries, and mean or insufficient diet on the other hand, bring dis- 
tempers upon themselves by the natural consequences of their way 
of living ; that the middle station of life was calculated for all 
kinds of virtues and all kinds of enjoyments ; that peace and 
plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune ; that temperance, 
umderation, quietness, health, society, all agreeable diversions, and 
all desirable pleasures, w^ere the blessings attending the middle 
station of life ; that this way men went silently and smoothly 
through the world, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with 
the labours of the hands or of the head, not sold to the life of 
slavery for daily bread, or harassed with perplexed circumstances, 
which rob the soul of peace, and the body of rest ; not enraged with 
the passion of envy, or secret burning lust of ambition for great 
things; but in easy circumstances sliding gently through the world, 
and sensibly tasting the sweets of living, without the bitter, feeling 
that they are happy, and learning by every day*s experience to know 
it more sensibly. 

After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate 
manner, not to play the young man, not to precipitate myself into 
miseries which nature and the station of life I was born in seemed 
to have provided against ; that I was under no necessity of seeking 
my bread ; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter me 
fairly into the station of life which he had been just recommending 
to me ; and that if I was not very easy and happy in the world, it 
must be my mere fate or fault that must hinder it, and that he 
should have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty in 




4 THE LIFE A HD ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


warning me against measures which he knew would bo to my hurt : 
in a word, that as he would do very kind things for me if I would 
stay and settle at home as he directed ; so he would not have so 
much hand in my misfortunes, as to give me any encouragement to 
go away : and to close all, he told me I had my elder brother for an 
example, to whom he had used the same earnest persuasions to keep 
him from going into the Low Country wars, but could not prevail, 
his young desires prompting him to run into the army, where he 
was killed; and though he said be would not cease to pray for me, yet 
he would venture to say to me, that if I did take this foolish step, 
God would not bless me, and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect 
upon having neglected his counsel when there might be none to assist 
in my recovery. 

I observed in this last part of his discourse, which w^as truly pro- 
.phetic, though I supxoose my father did not know it to bo so himself ; 
I say, I observed the tears run down his face very plentifully, and 
'^specially when he spoke of my brother who was killed] and that 
when he spoke of my having leisure to repent, and none t6 assist me, 
he was so moved, that he broke off the discourse, and told me, his 
heart was so full he could say no more to me. 

I w^as sincerely affected with this discourse, as indeed who could 
be otherwise ; and I resolved not to think of going abroad any more, 
but to settle at home according to my father’s desire. But alas ! a 
few days wore it all off; and in short, to prevent any of iny father's 
fartlrer importunities, in a few weeks after, I resolved to run quite 
away from him. However, I did not act so hastily neither as mv 
first heat of resolution prompted, but I took my mother, at a time 
when I thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and told her, 
that my thoughts vrere so entirely bent upon seeing the world, that 
I should never settle to anything with resolution enough to go 
through with it, and my father had better give me his consent than 
force me to go without it ; that I was now eighteen years old, which 
was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney ; 
that I was sure if I did, I should never serve out my time, and I 
should certainly run away from my master before my time was out, 
and go to sea ; and if she would speak to my father to let me go but 
one voyage abroad, if I came home again and did not like it, I would 
go no more, and I would promise by a double diligence to recover 
that time I had lost. 

This put my mother into a great passion : she told me, she knew 
it would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon any such 
subject ; that he knew too well what was my interest to give his 
consent to anything so much for my hurt, and that she wondered 
how I could' think of any such thing after such a discourse as I had 
had with my father, and such kind and tender impressions as she 
knew my father had used to me ; and that, in short, if I would ruin 
myself there was no help for me ; but I might depend I should 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 5 


never have their consent to it : that for her part she would not have 
so much hand in my destruction ; and I should never have to say, 
that my mother was willing when my father was not. 

Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet, as I have 
heard afterwards, she reported all the discourse to him, and that my 
father, after showing a great concern at it, said to her with a sigh, 
Thaf boy might he happy if he would stay at home, but if he goes 
abroad he will be the iniscrablest wretch that was ever born : I can 
give no consent to it. 

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose, though 
in the^mcan time I continued obstinately deaf to all proposals of 
settling to business, and frequently expostulating with my father and 
mother about their being so positively determined against what they 
knew my inclinations prompted me to. * But being one day at Hull, 
where I went casually, and without any purpose of making an elope- 
ment that time ; but I say, being there, and one of my companions 
being going by sea to London, in his father’s ship, and prompting 
me to go wdth him, with the common allurement of seafaring men, 
viz., that it should cost me nothing for my passage, I consulted 
neither father or mother any more, nor so much as sent them word 
of it ; but leaving them to hear of it as they might, without asking 
God’s blessing, or my father’s, without any consideration of circum- 
stances or consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows. On the 
first of September, 1G51, 1 went on board a ship bound for London : 
never any young adventurer’s misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, 
or continued longer than mine. The ship was no sooner gotten out 
of the Humber, but the wind began to blow, and the waves to rise 
in a most frightful manner ; and as I had never been at sea before, I 
was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified in my mind: I 
began now seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and how justly 
I was overtaken by the judgment of Heaven for my wicked leaving,' 
my father’s house, and abandoning my duty ; all the good counsel o^ 
my parents, my father’s tears and my mother’s entreaties came now; 
fresh into my mind, and my conscience, which was not yet come to' 
the pitch of hardness to which it has been since, reproached mo with^ 
the contempt of advice, and the breach of my duty to God and my. 
father. 

All this wdiile the storm increased, and the sea, which 1 had never 
been upon before, went very high, though nothing like vrhat I have 
seen many times since ; no, nor like what I saw a few days after : 
but it w’^as enough to affect me then, who was but a young sailor, and 
had never known anything of the matter. I expected every wave 
?v^ould have swallowed us up, and that every time the ship fell down, 
as I thought, in the trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise 
more ; and in this agony of mind, I made many vows and resolutions, 
that if it would please God here to spare my life this one voyage, if 
ever I got once my foot upon dry land again, I would go directly 




6 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


home to my father, and never set it into a ship again wliile I lived ; 
that I would take his advice, and never run myself into such miseries 
as these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness of his observa- 
tions about the middle station of life, how easy, how comfortably ho 
had lived all his days, and never had been exposed to tempests at 
sea, or troubles on shore ; and I resolved that I would, like a true 
repenting prodigal, go home to my fatlier. ’ 

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the storm 
continued, and indeed some time after ; but the next day tire wind 
was abated and the sea calmer, and I began to be a little inured to 
it : however, I was very grave for all that day, being also a little sea- 
sick still ; but towards night the weather cleared up, the wind was 
quite over, and a charming fine evening followed; the sun went down 
perfectly clear and rose so the next morning ; and having little or no 
wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I 
thought, the most delightful that ever I saw. 

i I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick, but 
very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the soa that was so rough 
and terrible the day before, and could be so cahn and so pleasant in 
so little time after. And now lest my good resolutions sliould con- 
tinue, my companion, who had indeed enticed me away, comes tome, 

* Well, Bob,’ says ho, clapping me on the shoulder, ‘ how do you uo 
after it? I warrant you w^ere frighted, wan’t you, last night, when 
it blew but a capfull of wind?’ ‘A capfull do you call it,’ said I, 

‘ ’twa§ a terrible storm.' ‘ A storm, you fool you,’ replies ho, ‘ do you 
call that a storm? why it was nothing at all ; give us but a good sliip 
and sea room, and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as tliat ; 
but you’re but a fresh-water sailor, Bob ; come, let us make a bowl of 
punch and we’ll forget all that, d’ye see what charming weather ’tis 
now.’ To make short this sad part of my story, wo went tlio old 
way of all sailors, the punch was made, and I was made drunk with 
it, and in that one night’s wickedness I drowned all my repentance, 
all my reflections upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions for 
my future. In a word, as the sea \vas returned to its smoothness of 
surface and settled calmness by the abatement of that storm, so tlie 
hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions of 
being swallowed up by the sea being forgotten, and the current of my 
former desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises 
that I made in my distress. I found indeed some intervals of re- 
flection, and the serious thoughts did, as it wore, endeavour to return 
again sometimes, but I shook them off, and roused myself from them 
as it were from a distemper, and applying myself to drink and 
company, soon mastered the return of those fits, for so I called them, 
and I had in five or six days got as complete a victory over con- 
science as any young fellow that resolved not to be troubled with it, 
could desire. But I was to have another trial for it still ; and Provi- 
dence, as in such cases generally it does, resolved to leave me entirely 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 7 


without excuse. For if I would not take this for a deliverance, the 
next was to be such a one as the worst and most hardened wretch 
among us would confess botli the danger and the mercy. 

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth roads ; 
the wind having been contrary, and the weather calm, we had made 
but little way since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to an 
anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz., at south- 
west, for seven or eight days, during which time a great many ships 
from Newcastle came into the same roads, as the common harbour 
where the ships might wait for a wind for the river. 

We had not however rid here so long, but should have tided it up 
the river, but tliat the wind blew too fresh ; and after we had lain 
four or five days, blew very hard. However, the roads being 
reckoned as good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground- 
tackle very strong, our men were unconcerned, and not in the least 
apprehensive of danger, but spent tlie time in rest and mirth, after 
the manner of the sea ; but the eighth day in the morning, the wind 
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our topmasts, and 
make everything snug and close, that the ship might ride as easy as 
possible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship rid .. 
forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or twice our 
anchor had come home ; upon which our master ordered out tlie 
sheet anchor ; so that we rode with two anchors a-head, and the 
cables veered out to the better end. 

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed, and now T began to 
see terror and amazement in the faces even of the seamen them- 
selves. The master, though vigilant in the business of preserving the 
ship, yet as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear 
him softly to himself say several times, * Lord bo merciful to us, we 
shall be all lost, we shall be all undone and the like. During these 
first hurries I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in the 
steerage, and cannot describe my temper : I could ill re-assume the 
first penitence, which I had so apparently trampled upon, and 
hardened myself against : I thought the bitterness of death had been 
past, and that this would be nothing like the first. But when the 
master himself came by me, as I said just now, and said we should 
bo all lost, I was dreadfully frighted : I got up out oi my cabin, and 
looked out; but such a dismal sight I never saw. The sea went 
mountains high, and broke upon us every three or four minutes. 
When I could look about, I could see nothing but distress round us. 
The ships that rid near us wo found had cut their masts by the board, 
being deep laden ; and our men cried out, that a ship which rid about 
a mile a-head of us was foundered. Two more ships being driven 
from their anchors were run out of the roads to sea at all adventures, 
and that with not a mast standing. The light ships fared the best, 
as not so much labouring in the sea ; but two or three of them drove, 
and came close by us, running away with only their sprit-sail out 
before the wind. 



8 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the master of 
our ship to let them cut away the foremast, which he was very 
unwilling to. But the boatswain protesting to him, that if he did 
not the ship would founder, he consented ; and when they had cut 
away the foremast, the mainmast stood so loose, and shook the 
ship so much, they w^ere obliged to cut her away also, and make a 
clear deck. ^ ^ ' 

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at all this, who 
was but a youi.g sailor, and who had been in such a fright before at 
but a little. But if I can express at this distance the thoughts I 
had about me at that time, I was in terjold more horror of mind 
upon account of my former convictions, and the having returned from 
them to the resolutions I had wickedly taken at first, than I was 
at death itself ; and these added to the terror of the storm, put me 
into such a condition, that I can by no words describe it. But 
the worst was not come yet, the storm continued with such fury 
that the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never known 
a worse. We had a good ship, but she was deep laden, and 
wallowed in the sea, that the seamen every now and then cried out 
she would founder. It was my advantage in one respect, that I did 
not know what they meant by founder, till I inquired. However, 
the storm was so violent that I saw what is not often seen, the 
master, the boatswain, and some others more sensible than the rest, 
at their prayers, and expecting every moment when the ship would 
go to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under all the 
rest of our distresses, one of the men that had been down on 
purpose to see, cried out we had sprung a leak ; another said there 
was four foot water in the hold. Then all hands were called to the 
pump. At that very word my heart, as I thought, died within me, 
and I fell backwards upon the side of my bed where I sat, into the 
cabin. However, the men roused me, and told me that I, that was 
able to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as another ; at 
which I stirred up, and went to the pump and worked very heartily. 
While this was doing, the master, seeing some light colliers who, not 
able to ride out the storm, were obliged to shp and run away to sea, 
and would not come near us, ordered to fire a gun as a signal of distress, 
I who knew nothing what that meant, was so surprised that I thought 
the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing had happened. In a word, 
I was so surprised that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a time 
when everybody had his own life to think of, nobody minded me, or 
what was become of me ; but another man stepped up to the pump, 
and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking I had been 
dead ; and it was a great while before I came to myself. 

We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold, it was appa- 
rent that the ship would founder, and though the storm began to 
abate a little, yet as it was not possible she could swim till we might 
run into a port, so the master continued firing guns for help ; and a 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9 

light ship who had rid it out just a-head of us ventured a boat out 
to help us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near us, 
but it was impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie 
near the ship side, till at last the men rowing very heartily, and ven- 
turing their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the 
stern with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a great length, which 
they 'after great labour and hazard took hold of, and we hauled them 
close under our stern, and got all into their boat. It was to no 
purpose for them or us after we were in the boat to think of reaching 
to their own ship, so all agreed to let her drive and only to pull her 
in towards shore as much as we could, and our master promised them, 
that if the boat was staved upon shore he would make it good to 
their master, so partly rowing and partly driving, our boat went 
away to the northward, sloj)ing towards the shore almost as far as 
Winterton Ness. 

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship 
before we saw her sink, and then I understood for the first time what 
was meant by a ship foundering in the sea ; I must acknowledge I 
had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told me she was sink- 
ing ; for from that moment they rather put me into the boat than 
that I might be said to go in, my heart was as it were dead within 
me, partly with fright, partly with horror of mind and the thoughts 
of what was yet before me. 

While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring at the oar 
to bring the boat near the shore, we could see, when our boat mpunt- 
iiig the waves, we were able to sec the shore, a great many people 
running along the shore to assist us when we should come near, but 
we made but slow way towards the shore, nor were we able to reach 
the shore, till being past the lighthouse at Winterton, the shore falls 
off to the westward towards Cromer, and so the land broke off a little 
the violence of the wind : here we got in, and though not without 
much difficulty got all safe on shore and walked afterwards on foot 
to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were used with great 
humanity as well by the magistrates of the town, who assigned us 
good quarters, as by particular merchants and owners of ships, and 
bad money given us sufficient to carry us either to London or back to 
Hull, as we thought fit. 

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have 
gone home, I had been happy, and my father, an emblem of oulr 
blessed Saviour's parable, had even killed the fatted calf for me ; for 
hearing the ship I went away in was cast away in Yannouth Eoad, it 
was a great while before he had any assurance that I was not drowned. 

But my ill-fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that nothing 
could resist ; and though I had several times loud calls from my reason 
and my more composed judgment to go home, yet I had no power to 
do it. I know not what to call this, nor will I urge, that it is a secret 
over-ruling decree that hurries us on to be the instruments of our 



»o THE LTFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


own destruction, even though it be before us, and that wc rush upofi it 
with our eyes open. Certainly notliing but some such decreed una- 
voidable misery attending, and which it w^as impossible for me to 
escape, could have pushed me forward against the calm reasonings 
and perwsuasions of my most retired thoughts, and against two such 
visible instructions as I had met with in my first attempt. 

My comrade, who liad iielped to harden me before, and who was 
the master’s son, was now less forward than I ; the first time he 
spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or 
three days, for we were separated in the town to several quarters ; 
I say, the first time he saw^ me, it appeared his tone was altered, 
and looking very melancholy and shaking his licad, asked me how I 
did, and telling his father who I was, and how 1 had come this 
voyage only for a trial in oi'dcr to go farther Jibroad ; his father 
turning to me with a very grave and concerned tone, ‘ Young man,’ 
says he, ‘ you ought never to go to sea any more, you ought to take 
this for a plain and visible token that you are not to be a seafaring 
man.’ Why, sir, said I, will you go to sea no more ? ‘ That is another 
case,’ said he ; ^ it is my calling, and therefore my duty ; but as you 
made this voyage for a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has given 
you of what you are to expect if you persist ; perhaps this is all be- 
fallen us on your account, like Jonah in the ship o[ Tarshish. Tray,’ 
continued he, ‘ wliat are you? and on what account did you go to sea?’ 
Upon that 1 told him some of my story ; at the end of which he 
burst out witli a strange kind of passion, what had I done, says he, 
that such an unhappy wretch sliould come into my ship ? I would 
not set my foot in tlie same ship with thee again for a thousand 
pounds. This indeed was, as I said, an excursion of his spirits which 
were yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was farther than ho 
could have authority to go. Ho^vever, ho afterwards talked very 
gravely to me, exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt 
Providence to my ruin ; told me 1 might see a visible hand of Heaven 
against me. * And, young man,’ said he, * depend upon it, if you do 
not go back, wherever you go, you wdll meet with nothing but disas- 
ters and disappointments, till your father’s w^ords are fulfilled upon 
you.' 

\Ve parted soon after; fori made him little answ’cr, and I saw 
him no more ; which way he went, I know not. As for me, having 
some money in my pocket, I travelled to London by land ; and 
there, as well as on tlie road, had many struggles with myself, what 
course of life I should take, and whether I should go home, or go 
to sea. 

As to goin^homo, shame opposed the best motions that offered 
to my thoughts ; and it immediately occurred to mo how I should be 
laughed at among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not 
my father and mother only, but even everybody else ; from whence 
I have since often observed, how incongruous and irrational the com- 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF RODINSON CRUSOE, ii 


}iiou temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason 
which ought to guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not 
ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent ; not ashamed of the 
action for which they ought justly to ho esteemed fools, hut are 
ashamed of the returning, which only can make them he esteemed 
wise men. 

In®this state of life, however, I remained some time, uncertain 
what measures to take, and wliat course of life to lead. An irresis- 
tible reluctance continued to going home ; and as I stayed a while, 
the rcmemhranco of the distress I had been in wore off ; and as 
that abated, tlie little motion I had in my desires to a return wore 
off with it, till at last I quite laid aside the thoughts of it, and looked 
out for a voyage, ' 

That evil inducnce which carried me first away from my father’s 
1 louse, that hurried me into the wild and indigested notion of raising 
my fortune ; and that impressed those conceits so forcibly upon me, 
as to make mo deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties and 
even command of my father ; I say the same infiuence, whatever it 
was, presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to my view ; 
and I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa ; or, as our 
sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea. 

It was my great misfortune that in all these adventures, I did not 
ship myself as a sailor ; whereby, thougli I might indeed have worked 
a little harder than ordinary, yet at the same time T liad learned the 
duty and office of a foremast man ; and in time might have quajified 
itiyself for a mate or lieutenant, if not for a master : but as it was 
always my fate to choose for the worst, so I did here ; for having 
money in ray pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I would always 
go on board in the habit of a gentleman ; and so I neither had any 
business in the ship, or learned to do any. 

It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good company in 
London, which does not always happen to such loose and uiiguided 
young fellows as I then was ; the devil generally not omitting to lay 
some snare for them very early : but it was not so with me ; I first 
fell acquainted with the master of a ship who had been on the coast 
of Guinea; and who having had very good success there, was resolved 
to go again ; and who taking a fancy to my conversation, which was 
not at all disagreeable at that time, hearing me say I had a mind to 
see the world, told me if I would go the voyage with him I sliould be 
at no expense ; I should bo his messmate and his companion, and if 
I could carry anything with me, I should have all the ‘advantage c f 
it that the trade would admit ; and perhaps I might meet with some 
encouragement. 

I embraced the offer, and entering into a strict friendship with this 
captain, who was an honest and plain-dealing man, I went the voyage 
with him, and carried a small adventure with me, which by the dis- 
interested honesty of my friend the captain, I increased very con- 



12 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


siderably ; for I carried about £40 in such toys and trifles as the 
captain directed me to buy. ^Tliis £4.0 I had mustered together by 
the assistance of some of my relations whom I corresponded with, 
and who, I believe, got my father, or at least my mother, to contri- 
bute so much as that to my first adventure. 

This was the only voyage, which I may say was successful in all 
my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and honesty o^ my 
friend the captain, under whom also I got a competent knowledge of 
the mathematics and the rules of navigation, learned how to keep an 
account of the ship’s course, take an observation ; and in short, to 
understand some things that \vere needful to be understood by a 
sailor : for, as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to 
learn ; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a 
merchant : for T brought home 5 ]30unds 9 ounces of gold dust for my 
adventure, wliich yielded me in Ixindon at my return almost £300, 
and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have since so 
comx^leted my ruin. 

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too ; particularly, 
that I was continually sick, being thrown into a violent calenture by 
the excessive heat of the climate ; our principal trading being upon 
the coast, from the latitude of 15 degrees north even to the Line 
itself. 

I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to my 
great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the 
same, voyage again, and I embarked in the same vessel with one who 
was his mate in the former voyage, and had now got the command 
of the ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made ; 
for though I did not carry quite £100 of my new gained wealth, so that 
I had 200 left, and which I lodged with my friend’s widow, who was 
very just to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voyage ; 
and the first was this, viz., our ship making her course towards the 
Canary Islands, or rather between those islands and the African 
shore, was surprised in the grey of the morning, by a Turkish rover 
of Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail she could make. We 
crowded also as much canvas as our yards would spread, or our 
masts carry, to have got clear ; but finding the pirate gained upon us, 
and would certainly come up with us in a few hours, wo prepared to 
fight ; our ship having 12 guns, and the rogue 18. About three in 
the afternoon he came up with us, and bringing to by mistake, just 
athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we 
brought 8 of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in a broadside 
upon him, which made him sheer off again, after returning our fire, 
and pouring in also his small shot from near 200 men which he had 
on board. However, we had not a man touched, all our men keeping 
close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to defend ourselves ; 
but laying us on board the next time upon our other quarter, ho 
entered 60 men upon our decks, who immediately fell to cutting and 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 13 


hacking the docks and rigging. We plied them with small-shot, half- 
pikes, powder-chests, and such like, and cleared our deck of them 
twice. However, to cut short this melancholy part of our story, our 
ship being disabled, and three of our men killed, and eight wounded, 
we were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a 
port belonging to the Moors. 

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I apprehended, 
nor was I carried up the country to the emperor’s court, as the rest 
of our men were, but was kept by the captain of the rover, as his 
proper prize, and made his slave, being young and nimble, and fit for 
his business. At this surprising change of my circumstances from a 
merchant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed ; and 
now I looked back upon my father’s prophetic discourse to me, that 
I should be miserable, and have none to relieve me, which I thought 
was now so effectually brought to pass, that I could not be 
worse ; that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and I was 
undone without redemption. But alas ! this was but a taste of the 
misery I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of this 
story. 

As my new patron or master had taken me home to his house, so 
I was in hopes that he would take me wuth him when he went to sea 
again, believing that it would some time or other be his fate to be 
taken by a Spanish or Portugal man of war ; and then that I should 
be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken away ; for 
when he went to sea, he left me on shore to look after his little 
garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house ; and 
when he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie in the 
cabin to look after the ship. 

Here I meditated nothing but my escape ; and what method I 
might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least proba- 
bility in it : nothing presented to make the supposition of it rational ; 
for I had nobody to communicate it to, that would embark with me ; 
no fellow -slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotsman there but 
myself ; so that for two years, though I often pleased myself with the 
imagination, yet I never had the least encouraging prospect of putting 
it in practice. 

After about two years an odd circumstance presented itself, w’^hich 
put the old thought of making some attempt for my liberty, again in 
my head : my patron lying at home longer than usual, without fitting 
out kis ship, which, as I heard, was for want of money ; he used 
constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftener, if the weather 
was fair, to take the ship’s pinnace, and go out into the road a fish- 
ing ; and as he always took me and a young Maresco with him to 
pw the boat, we made him very merry, and I proved very dexterous 
in catching fish ; insomuch that sometimes he would send me with a 
Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth the Maresco, as they called 
him, to catch a dish of fish for him. 



f4 TIIK LIFE AjYD AD VENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

It hapxjened one iinie, that ^^oing a fishing in a stark calm morning^ 
a fog rose so thick, that though we were not half a league from tl o 
shore we lost sight of it ; and rowing we knew not whither or whicli 
way, wo Jaboured all day and all the next night, and when the morn- 
ing came wo found wo had x^ullcd off to sea instead of pulling in for 
the shore ; and that wo were at least two leagues from the shore : 
however, we got well in again, though with a groat deal of labour, and 
some danger ; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morn- 
ing ; but particularly we were all very hungry. 

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more carc^ 
of himself for the future ; and having lying by him the long-boat of 
our EnglisI) ship we had taken, he resolved he would not go a fishing 
any more witliout a compass and some provision ; so he ordered tlie 
carpenter of his ship, who also Avas an English slave, to build a little 
state-room or cabin in the middle of the long boat, like that of a 
barge, with a place to stand behind it to steer and hale homo the 
main-sheet; and room before for a hand or two to stand and work 
the sails ; slio sailed with what we call a shoulder of mutton sail ; and 
the boom gibbed over the top of the cabin, which lay very snug and 
low, and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table 
to cat on, with some small lockci’s to put in some bottles of such licpior 
as he thougVit fit to drink ; particularly his bread, rice, and coiTec. 

\Yo went frequently out with this boat a fishing, and as I was most 
dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went without me : it 
happcjied that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either for 
pleasure or for fish, with two or three Moors of some distinction in 
that x^lacc, and for whom he had xirovided extraordinarily ; and h^d 
therefore sent on board tlie boat over night, a larger store of 
visions than ordinary ; and had ordered me to get ready three fuzees 
with powder and shot, which were on board his ship ; for that they 
designed some sport of fowling as well as fishing. 

I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited the next morn- 
ing with the boat, washed clean, her ancient and xiendants out, and 
everything to accommodate his guests ; when by-and-by my iiatrou 
came on board alone, and told me his guests had put off going, upon 
some business that fell out, and ordered me with the man and boy, as 
usual, to go out with the boat and catch them some fish, for that his 
friends were to sup at his house ; and commanded that as soon as I 
had got some fish I should bring it home to his house ; all which I 
prepared to do. 

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my 
thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship at my com- 
mand ; and my master being gone, I prepared to furnish myself, not 
for a fishing business, but for a voyage ; though I knew not, neither 
did I so much as consider, whither I should steer ; for anywhere to 
get out of that place was my way. 

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this Moor, 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 15 


to get Boiiietliiug for ouv subsistence on board ; for I told him wo 
must not presume to oat of our patron’s bread : lie said, that was 
true; so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit of their Mud, 
and three jars with fresh w^ater into the boat. I knew where my 
patron’s case of bottles stood, which it was evident by the make 
w^ere taken out of some English prize; and I conveyed them into tlie 
boat' wdiile the Moor w'as on sliore, as if they had been there before, 
for our master ; I convoyed also a gi-eat lumj) of boes’-w^ax into the 
boat, wdiich w'eighed above half a hundred w^eight, wdth a parcel of 
twine or tliread, a liatclxct, a saw, and a hammer, all wiiich w^ere of 
great use to us afterwaixE ; es^xeeially the wax to make candles. 
Anothdr trick I tried upon him, wdiich he innocently came into also ; 
his name was Ismael, who they called Muly, or Moley, so I called to 
him, Moley, said I, our jiatroii’s guns are on board the boat, can you 
not get a little pow?^der and shot, it may be w’o may kill some 
Alcainies (a fowd like our curlews) for ourselves, for I know he keeps 
the gunner’s stores in the ship? Yes, says he. I’ll bring some; and 
accordingly he brought a great leather poucli w’hich held about a 
pound and half of powuler, or rather more ; and another with shot, 
that had live or six pounds, wdth some bullets, and put all into the 
boat : at the same time I had found some pow'der of my master’s in 
the great cabin, with wdiich I filled one of the large bottles in the 
case, which w^as almost empty ; pouring w^hat was in it into another : 
and thus furnished with everything needful, we sailed out of the port 
to fish. The castle wdiich is at the entrance of the port knew who 
^we w^ere, and took Iio notice of us ; and we were not above a niile out 
of the port before w^e hauled in our sail, and set us clown to fish : 
the wind blew from the N.N.E. which was contrary to my desire; 
for had it blown southerly I had been sure to have made the coast of 
Spain, and at least reached to the Bay of Cadiz ; but my resolutions 
were, blow wdiich way it would, I would be gone from that horrid 
place where I was and leave the rest to fate. 

After w^e had fished some time and catched nothing, for when I had 
fish on my hook, I would not pull them* up, that he might not see 
them ; I said to the Moor, this will not do, our master will not be 
thus served, we must stand farther off : he, thinking no harm, agreed; 
and being in the head of the boat set the sails ; and as 1 had the 
helm I run the boat out near a league farther, and then brought her 
to as if I would fish; when giving the boy the helm, I stepped 
forward to where the Moor was, and making as if I stooped for some- 
thing behind him, I took him by surprise wuth my arm under his 
twist, and tossed him clear overboard into the sea. He rose imme- 
diately, for he swam like a cork, and called to me, begged to bo taken 
in, told me he would go all over the world with me ; he swam so 
strong after the boat that he would have reached me very quickly, 
there being but little wind ; upon which I stopped into the cabin, and 
fetching one of the fowling-pieces, I presented it at him, and told 



i6 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


him, I had done him no hurt, and if he would he quiet I would do 
him none ; but, said I, you swim well enough to reach the shore, and 
the sea is calm, make the best of ‘your way to shore, and I will do you 
no harm, but if you come near the boat 111 shoot you through the head ; 
for I am resolved to have my liberty ; so he turned himself about and 
swam for the shoi-e, and I make no doubt but ho reached it with ease, 
for he was an c:vcellGut swimmer. , 

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me, and 
have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust liim. 
When lie was gone I turned to the boy, who they called Xury, and 
said to him, Xary, if you will be faithful to me 111 make you a great 
man, but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me, 'that is, 
swear by Mahomet and his father's beard, I must throw you into the 
sea ; the boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently that I could 
not mistrust him ; and swore to be faitliful to me, and go ail over the 
world with me. 

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I stood out 
directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to windw^anl, that 
they might think me gone towards the Straits mouth (as indeed 
anyone that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do) 
for who w^ould have supposed we were sailed on to the southward 
to the truly barbarian coast, where whole nations of negroes w'ere 
sure to surround us with their canoes, and destroy us ; where we 
could never once go on shore but we should be devoured by savage 
beasts, or more merciless savages of human kind. 

Eitt as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my coursOj 
and steered directly south and by cast, bending my course a little 
toward the east, that I might keep in with the shore ; and having a 
fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I made such sail 
that I believe by the next day at three o’clock in the afternoon, 
when I first made the land, I could not be less than 150 miles south 
of Sallee; quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco’s dominions, or 
indeed of any other king thereabouts, for we saw no people. 

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the dreadful 
apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that I would not 
stop, or go on shore, or come to an anchor ; the wind continuing 
fair, until I had sailed in that manner five day^s : and then the wind 
shifting to the southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels 
were in chase of me, they also would now give over; so I ventured to 
make to the coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little 
river, I knew not what, or where; neither what latitude, what 
country, what nation, or what river : I neither saw, or desired to see 
any people, the principal thing I wanted was fresh water : we came 
into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as 
it was dark, and discover the country ; but as soon as it was quite 
dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, and 
howling of wild creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that the poor 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 17 

boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of me not to go on shore 
till day. Well, Xury, said I, then I won’t, but it may be we may see 
men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions. Then we give 
them the shoot gun, says Xury, laughing ; make them run wey. Such 
English Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves ; however, 1 was 
glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him a dram (out of our 
patron’s case of bottles) to cheer him up : after all, Xury’s advice 
w^as good, and I took it ; we dropped our little anchor and lay still all 
night ; I say still, for we slept none I for in two or three hours we 
saw vast great creatures (w^e knew not what to call them) of many 
sorts, come down to the sea-shore and run into the water, wallowing 
and washing themselves for the pleasure of cooling themselves ; and 
they made such hideous bowlings and yellings, that I never indeed 
heard the like. 

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too ; but we 
wore both more frighted 'when we heard one of these mighty creatures 
come swimming towards our boat ; we could not see him, but wc 
might hear him by his blowing to be a monstrous, huge and furious 
beast. Xury said it was a lion, and it might be so for aught I know; 
but Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away. No, says 
I, Xury, we can slip our cable with the buoj^ to it and go off to sea, 
they cannot follow us far. I had no sooner said so, but I perceived 
the creature (wliatever it was) within two orrs’ length, which some- 
thing surprised me ; however, I inimediatciy stepped to the cabin 
door, and taking up my gun fired at him, upon which he immediately 
turned about and swam towards the shore again. 

' T5ut it is impossible to describe the horrible noises, and hideous 
cries and bowlings, that were raised as well upon the edge of the 
shore, as higher within the country, upon the noise or report of the 
gun ; a thing I have some reason to believe those creatures had never 
heard before. This convinced me that there was no going on shore 
for us in the night upon that coast, and liow to venture on shore in 
tile day was another question too ; for to have fallen into the hands 
of any of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into the 
hands of lions and tigers ; at least, we were equally apprehensive of 
the danger of it. 

Be that as it would, we 'were obliged to go on shore somewhere or 
other for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat ; when or 
where to get to it was the point. Xury said, if I would let him go 
on shore with one of the jars, he would find if there was any water 
and bring some to me. I asked him why he would go? why I should 
not go and he stay in the boat ? The boy answered with so much 
affection that made me love him ever after. Says he, If wild mans 
come, they eat me, you go wey. Well, Xury, said I, we will both go, 
and if the wild mans come, we will kill them, they shall eat neither 
of us ; so I gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a dram out 
of our patron’s case of bottles which I mentioned before ; and we 



i8 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


hauled the boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper, and 
so waded on shore, carrying nothing but our arms and two jars for 
water. 

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the coming of 
canoes with savages down the river ; but the boy seeing a low place 
about a mile up the country rambled to it ; and by-and-by I saw 
him come running towards me. I thought he was pui‘sued by some 
savage, or frighted wdth some wild beast, and I run forward towards 
him to help him, but wdien I came nearer to him, I saw something 
hanging over his shoulders which was a creature that he had shot, 
like a hare, but different in colour, and longer legs ; however we were 
very glad of it, and it ’svas very good meat ; but the great joy that 
poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good water and 
seen no wild mans. 

But we found afterwards that w^e need not take such pains for 
water, for a little higher up the creek where we w^ere, we found the 
water fresh when the tide was out, which flowed but a little way up ; 
so we filled our jars and feasted on the hare we had killed, and 
prepared to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of any human 
creature in that part of the country. 

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very weJl 
that the islands of the Canaries, and the Capo de Verd islands also, 
lay not far off from the coast. But as I liad no instruments to take 
an observation to know what latitude we were in, and did not exactly 
know, or at least remember what latitude they were in ; I knew 
not where to look for them, or when to stand off to sea towavds 
them ; otherwise I might now easily have found some of these 
islands. But my hope was, that if I stood along this coast till I 
came to that part where the English traded, I should find some of 
their vessels upon their usual design of trade, that w^ould relieve and 
take us in. 

By the best of my calculation, that place where I now was, must 
be that country, which lying between the Emperor of Morocco's 
dominions and the negroes, lies waste and uninhabited, except by 
wild beasts ; the negroes having abandoned it and gone farther south 
for fear of the Moors ; and the Moors not thinking it worth inhabit- 
ing, by reason of its barrenness ; and indeed both forsaking it because 
of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, leopards and other 
furious creatures which harbour there ; so that the Moors use it for 
their hunting only, where they go like an army, two or three thou- 
sand men at a time ; and indeed for near an hundred miles together 
upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste uninhabited country, by 
day ; and heard nothing but howhngs and roaring of wild beasts* by 
night. 

Once or twice in the daytime, I thought I saw the Pico of Teneriffe, 
being the high top of the Mountain Teneriffe in the Canaries ; and had 
a great mind to venture out in hopes of reaching thither ; but having 



ROBINSOW CRUSOE DISCOVtKg A DREADFUL MONSTER.- 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF RODINSON CRUSOE, 21 

tried twice I was forced in again l>y contrary wiiids, the sea also going 
too high for my little vessel, so I resolved to pursue my first design 
and keep along the shore. 

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after we had 
left this place ; and once in particular, being early in the morning, 
we came to an anchor under a little point of land which was pretty 
high, and the tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go farther in ; 
"Xury, whoso eyes were more about him than it seems mine were, 
calls softly to me, and tells me that we had best go farther off the 
shore ; for, says he, look yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side 
of that hillock fast asleep : I looked where he pointed, and saw a 
dreadful monster indeed, for it was a terrible great lion that lay on 
the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the hiU that hung 
as it were a little over him. Xury, says I, "you shall go on shore and 
kill him ; Xury looked frighted, and said. Me kill 1 he eat me at one 
mouth ; one mouthful he meant. However, I said no more to the 
boy, but bad him lie still, and I took our biggest gun, which was 
almost musket-boro, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and 
with two slugs, and laid it down ; then I loaded another gun with 
two bullets, and the third, for we had three pieces, I loaded with five 
smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could \vith the first piece to 
have shot him into the head, but ho lay so with his leg raised a little 
above his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee, and broke 
the bone. He started up growling at first, but finding his leg broke 
fell down again, and then got up upon three legs and gave the most 
hideous roar that over I heard ; I was a little surprised that I had 
not hit him on the head ; however, I took up the second piece imme- 
diately, and though he began to move off fired again, and shot him 
into the head, and had the pleasure to see him di*op, and make but 
little noise, but lay struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and 
would have me let him go on shore : Well, go, said I ; so the boy 
jumped into the water, and taking a little gun in one hand, swam to 
shore with the other hand, and coming close to the creature, put the 
muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him into the head again, which 
despatched him quite. ^ 

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food, and I was very 
sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot upon a creature that 
was good for nothing to us. However, Xury said he would have some 
of him ; so he comes on board, and asked me to give him the hatchet. 
For what, Xury, said I ? Me cut off his head, said he. However, 
Xury could not cut off his head, but he cut off a foot and brought it 
with him, and it was a monstrous great one. 

I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of him might 
one way or other be of some value to us ; and I resolved to take off 
his skin if I could. So Xury and I went to work with him, but Xury 
was much the better workman at it, for I knew very ill how to do 
it. Indeed, it took us up both the whole day, but at last we got off 



22 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


t’le hide of him, and 
erfectiially dried it in 
lie upon. 

After this stop we made on to the southward continually for ten or 
twelve days, living very sparingly on our provisions, which Began to 
"ahato very much, and going no oftener into the shore than wo were 
obliged to for fresh water ; my design in this was to make the Kiver 
Gambia or Senegall, that is to say, anywhere about the Cape de Verd, 
where I was in hopes to meet with some European ship, and if I did 
not, I knew not what course I had to take, but to seek out for the 
islands, or perish there among the negroes. I knew that all the 
ships from Europe, which sailed either to the coast of Guinea, or to 
Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this cape, or those islands ; and 
in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this single point, either 
that I must meet with some ship, or must perish. 

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as I have 
said, I began to see that the land was inhabited, and in two or three 
places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to look 
at us; we could also perceive they were quite black and stark naked. 
I was once inclined to have gone on shore to them; but Xury wasmy 
better counsellor, and said to me, No go, no go ; however, I hauled 
in nearer the shore, that I might talk to them, and I found they ran 
along the shore by me a good way ; I observed they had no weapons 
in their hands, except one who had a long slender stick, which Xury 
said was a lance, and that they would throw them a great way with 
good aim ; so I kept at a distance, but talked with them by signs ar 
well as I could ; and particularly made signs for something to eat ; 
they beckoned to me to stop my boat, and that they would fetch mo 
some meat ; upon this I lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and 
two of them run up into the country, and in less than half an hour 
came back and brought with them two pieces of dry flesh and some 
corn, such as is the produce of their country, but we neither knew 
what the one or the other was ; however, wo were willing to accep.t 
it, but how to come at it was our next dispute, for I was not for ven- 
turing on shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us ; but 
they took a safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore and 
laid it down, and went and stood a great way off till we fetched it on 
board, and then came close to us again. 

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make 
them amends ; but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige 
them wonderfully, for while we were lying by the shore, came two 
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took it), with great 
fury, from the mountains towards the sea ; whether it was the male 
pursuing the female, or whether they were in sport or in rage, we 
could not tell, any more than wo could tell whether it was usual or 
strange; but I believe it was the latter; because in the first place, 
those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the night ; and in the 


spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun 
two days^ time, and it afterwards served me to 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 23 

Becond place, we found the people terribly frighted, especially the 
women. The man that had the lance or dart did not fiy from 
them, but the rest did ; however, as the two creatures ran directly 
into the water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon any of the 
negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea and swam about as 
if they had come for their diversion ; at last one of them began to 
come nearer our boat than at first I expected, but I lay ready for him, 
for I had loaded my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury 
load both the others ; as soon as he came fairly within my reach, I 
fired, and shot him directly into the head ; immediately he sunk down 
into the water, but rose instantly and plunged up and down as if he 
was struggling for life ; and so indeed he was ; he immediately made 
to the shore, but between the wouna which was his mortal hurt, 
and the strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the 
shore. 

It is impossible to express the astonishment of the poor creatures 
at the noise and the fire of my gun ; some of them were even ready to 
die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very terror. But when 
they saw the creature dead and sunk in the water, and that I made 
signs to them to come to the shore ; they took heart and came to the 
shore and began to search for the creature ; I found him by his blood 
staining the water, and by the help of a rope which I slung round 
him and gave the negroes to haul, they dragged him on shore, and 
found that it was a most curious leopard, spotted and fine to an 
admirable degree, and the negroes held up their hands with admira- 
tion to think what it was I had killed him with. 

tThe other creature, frighted with the flash of fire and the noise of 
the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the mountains from 
whence they came, nor could I at that distance know what it was. 
I found quickly the negroes were for eating the flesh of this creature, 
so I was willing to have them take it as a favour from me, which 
when I made signs to them that they might take it, they were very 
thankful for ; immediately they fell to ^vork with him, and though they 
had no knife, yet with a sharpened piece of wood they took off his 
skin as readily, and much more readily than we could have done with 
a knife ; they offered me some of the flesh, which I declined, making 
as if I would give it them, but made signs for the skin, which they 
gave me very freely, and brought me a great deal more of their pro- 
vision, which though I did not understand, yet I accepted ; then I made 
signs to them for some water, and held out one of my jars to them, 
turning it bottom upward, to show that it was empty, and that I wanted 
to have it filled. They called immediately to some of their friends, 
and there came two women and brought a great vessel made of 
earth, and burnt as I suppose in the sun ; this they set down for me, 
as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them all 
three. 

I was now furnished with roots and com, such as it was, and water, 


24 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

and leaving my friendly negroes, I made forward for aboMt eleven 
days more without offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land 
run but a great length iiito the sea, at about the distance of four or 
five leagues before me, and the sea being very calm I kept a large 
offing to make this point ; at length, doubling the point at about two 
leagues from the land, I saw plainly land on the other side to sea- 
ward ; then I concluded, as it was more certain indeed, that this was 
the Cape de Verd, and those the islands, called from thence Cape de 
Verd islands. However, they were at a great distance, and I could 
not well tell what I had best to do, for if I should be taken with a 
fresh of wind I might neither reach one or other. 

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the cabin and 
sat me down, Xury having the helm, when on a sudden, the boy cried 
out. Master, Master, a ship with a sail ! and the foolish boy was 
frighted out of his wits, thinking it must needs be some of his 
master’s ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were gotten far 
enough out of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin, and imme- 
diately saw not only the ship, but what she was, (viz.) that it was a 
Portuguese ship, and as I thought was bound to the coast of Guinea 
for negroes. But when I observed the course she steered, I was soon 
convinced they were bound some other way, and did not design to 
come any nearer to the shore ; upon which I stretched out to sea as 
much as I could, resolving to speak with them if possible. 

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to 
come in their way, but that they would be gone by, before I could 
make any signal to them ; but after I had crowded to the utmost 
and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help of their per- 
spective-glasses, and that it was some European boat, which as they 
supposed must belong to some ship that was lost, so they shortened 
sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with this, and as I had my 
patron’s ancient on board, I made a waft of it to them for a signal 
of distress, and fired a gun, both which they saw, for they told me 
they saw the smoke, though they did not hear the gun ; upon these 
signals they very kindly brought to, and lay by for mo, and in about 
three hours* time I came up with them. 

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish, aaid in 
IVench, but I understood none of them ; but at last a Scotch sailor 
who was on board, called to me, and I answered him, and told him I 
was an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of slavery from 
the Moors at Sallee ; then they bade me come on board, and very 
kindly took me in and all my goods. 

It was an inexpressible joy to me, that any one will believe, that I 
was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable and 
almost hopeless condition as I was in, and I immediately offered all 
I had to the captain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance ; but 
he generously told me, he would take nothing from me, but that all I 
had should be delivered safe to me when I came to the Brazils, for 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 25 


says lie, I have saved your life on no other terms than I would be 
glad to be saved and it may one time or other be my lot to bo 

taken up in the same condition ; besides, said he, when I carry you 
to the Brazils, so great a way from your own country, if I should 
take from you what you have, you will be starved there, and then I 
only take away the life I have given. No, no, Seignor Inglese, says ho, 
Mr. Englishman, I will carry you thither in charity, and those things 
will help you to buy your subsistence there and your passage homo 
again. 

As he was charitable in his proposal, so ho was just in the per- 
formance to the tittle, for he ordered the seamen that none should 
offer to*touch anything I had ; then he took everything into his own 
possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I 
might have them, oven so much as my three earthen jars. 

As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he saw, and told 
me he would buy it of me for the ship’s use, and asked mo what I 
would have for it ? I told him he had been so generous to me in 
everything, that I could not offer to make any price of the boat, but 
left it entirely to him, upon which he told mo he would give me a 
note of his hand to pay me 80 pieces of eight for it at Brazil, and 
vdien it came there, if any one offered to give more he would make 
it up ; he offered me also 60 pieces of eight more for my boy Xury, 
which I was loth to take, not that I was not willing to let the captain 
have him, but I was very loth to sell the poor boy’s liberty, who had 
assisted me so faithfully in procuring my own. However, when I let 
him know my reason, ho owned it to be just, and offered me this 
medium, that he would give the boy an obligation to set him free in 
ten years, if he turned Christian ; upon this, and Xury saying he was 
willing to go to him, I let the captain have him. 

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived in the Bay 
de Todos los Santos, or All Saints* Bay, in about twenty-two days 
after. And now I was once more delivered from the most miserable 
of all conditions of life, and what to do next with myself I was now 
to consider. 

The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never enough 
remember ; he would take nothing of me for my passage, gave me 
twenty ducats for the leopard’s skin, and forty for the lion’s skin 
which I had in nay boat, and caused everything I had in my ship to 
be punctually delivered me, and what I was willing to sell he bought, 
such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump 
ot bees- wax, for I had made candles of the rest ; in a word, I made 
about 220 pieces of eight of all my cargo, and with this stock I went 
on shore in the Brazils. 

been long here, but being recommended to the house of a 
fu f • himself, who had an Ingeino as they call it; 

hat IS, a plantation and a sugar-house, I lived with him some time, 
and acquainted myself by that means with the manner of their 



26 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


planting and making of sugar; and seeing how well the planters 
lived, and how they grew rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get 
licence to settle there, 1 would turn planter among them, resolving 
in the meantime to find out some way to get my money which I had 
left in London remitted to me. To this purpose getting a kind of a 
letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land that was uncured, 
as my money would reach, and formed a plan for my plantation and 
settlement, and such a one as might be suitable to the stock which I 
proposed to myself to receive from England. 

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of English 
parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such circumstances as 
I was, I call him my neighbour, because his plantation lay*'next to 
mine, and we went on very sociably together. My stock was but low 
as well as his ; and we rather planted for food, than anything else, 
for about two years. However, wo began to increase, and our land 
began to come into order ; so that the third year wo planted 
some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground ready 
for planting canes in the year to come ; but wo both wanted help ; 
and now I found more than before, I had done wrong in parting 
with my boy Xnry. 

But alas ! for me to do WTong, that never did right, was no great 
wonder : I had no remedy but to go on ; I was gotten into an em- 
. ploynient quite remote to my genius, and directly contrary to the 
life I deliglited in, and for which I forsook my father's house, and 
broke through all his good advice ; nay, I was coining into the very 
middle station, or upper degree of low life, which my father ad- 
vised me to before ; and which if I resolved to go on with, I might 
as well have stayed at home, and never have fatigued myself in the 

orld as I had done ; and I used often to say to myself, 1 could have 
done this as well in England among my friends, as have gone five 
tliousand miles off to do it among strangers and savages in a 
wilderness, and at such a distance, as never to hear from any part of 
the world that had the least knowledge of mo. 

In this manner I used to look upon my condition with the utmost 
regret. I had nobody to converse with but now and then this 
neighbour ; no work to be done, but by the labour of my hands ; 
and I used to say, I lived just like a man cast away upon some desolate 
island, that had nobody there but himself. But how just has it been, 
and how should all men reflect, that when they compare their present 
conditions with others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them to 
make the exchange, and be convinced of their former felicity by their 
experience : I say, how just has it been, that the truly solitary life 
I reflected on in an island of mere desolation should be my lot, who 
had so often unjustly compared it with the life which I then led, in 
which had I continued, I had in all probability been exceeding pros- 
perous and rich. 

I was in some degree settled in my measures for carrying on the 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 27 


plantation, before my kind friend the captain of the ship tliat took 
me up at sea, went back ; for the ship remained there in providing 
his loading, and preparing for his voyage, near three months, when 
telling him what little stock I had left behind me in Iioudon, he gave 
me this friendly and sincere advice : Seignbr Inglese, says he, for so he 
always callod me, if you will give ifie letters, and a procuration here 
in form to me, with orders to the person who has your money in 
London, to send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall 
direct, and in such goods as are proper for this country, I will bring 
you the produce of them, God willing, at my return ; but since human 
affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I would have you 
give orders but for one hundred pounds sterling, which you say is half 
your stock, and let the hazard be run for the first ; so that if it come 
safe, you may order the rest the same way ; and if it miscarry, you 
may have the other half to have recourse to for your supply. 

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that I could 
not but be convinced it was the best course I could take ; so I ac- 
cordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman with whom I had 
left my money, and a procuration to the Portuguese captain, as he 
desired. 

I wrote the English captain’s widow a full account of all my ad- 
ventures, my slavery, escape, and how I had met with the Portugal 
captain at sea, the humanity of his behaviour, and in what condition 
I was now in, with all other necessary directions for my supply; and 
when this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found means by some of 
thew English merchants there, to send over not the order only, but a 
full account of my story to a merchant at London, who represented 
it effectually to her ; whereupon, she not only delivered the money, 
but ouo of her own pocket sent the Portugal captain a very handsome 
present for his humanity and charity to me. 

The merchant in London vesting this hundred pounds in English 
goods, such as the captain had writ for, sent them directly to him at 
Lisbon, and ho brought them all safe to me to the Brazils, among 
which, without my direction (for I was too young in my business to 
think of them) he had taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron- 
work, and utensils necessary for my plantation, and which were of 
great use to me. 

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortunes made, for I was 
surprised with joy of it ; and my good steward and captain had laid 
out the five pounds which my friend had sent him for a present for 
himself, to purchase, and bring me over a servant under bond for six 
years’ service, and would not accept of any consideration, except a 
little tobacco, which I would have him accept, being of my own 
produce. 

Neither was this all ; but my goods being all English manufactures, 
such as cloths, stuffs, bays, and things particularly valuable and de- 
sirable in the country, I found means to sell them to a very great 




28 THE LIFE AND ADXENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


advantage ; so tliat I might say, I had more than four times the value 
of my first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour, 
I mean in the advancement of my plantation ; for the first thing I 
did, I bought mo a negro slave, and an European servant also ; I 
mean another besides that which the captain brought me from 
Lisbon. 

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means of our 
greatest adversity, so was it with me. I went on the next year with 
great success in my plantation : I raised fifty groat rolls of tobacco 
on my own ground, more than I had disposed of for necessaries 
among my neighbours ; and these fifty rolls being each of above a 
hundredweight, were well cured and laid by against the return of 
the fleet from Lisbon : and now increasing in business and in 
wealth, my head began to be fiill of projects and undertakings 
beyond my reach ; such as are indeed often the ruin of the best 
heads in business. 

Had I continued in the station I w^as now in, I had room for all 
the happy things to have yet befallen mo, for which my father so 
earnestly recommended a quiet retired life, and of which he had so 
sensibly described the middle station of life to be full of ; but other 
things attended me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of all my 
own miseries ; and particularly to increase my fault and double the 
reflections upon myself, which in my future sorrows I should have 
leisure to make ; all these miscarriages were procured by my apparent 
obstinate adhering to my foolish inclination of wandering abroad, 
and pursuing that inclination, in contradiction to the clearest vmws 
of doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit of those prospects 
and those measures of life, which nature and providence concurred 
to present me with, and to make my duty. 

As I had once done thus in my breaking away from my parents, so 
I could not be content now, but I must go and leave the happy view 
I had of being a rich and thriving man in my new plantation, only 
to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising faster than the 
nature of the thing admitted ; and thus I cast myself down again 
into the deepest gulf of human misery that ever man fell into, or 
perhaps could be consistent with life and a state of health in the 
world. 

To come then by the just degrees to the particulars of this part 
of my story; you may suppose, that having now lived almost four 
years in the Brazils, and beginning to thrive and prosper very well 
upon my plantation, I had not only learned the language, but had 
contracted acquaintance and friendship among my fellow-planters, 
as well as among the merchants at St. Salvadore, which was our 
port ; and that in my discourses among them, I had frequently given 
them an account of my two voyages to the epast of Guinea, the 
manner of trading with the negroes there, and liow easy it was to 
purchase upon the coast, for trifles, such as beads, toys, knives. 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 29 


scissors, hatchets, bits of glass, and the like ; not only gold dust, 
Guinea grains, elephants’ teeth, etc., but negroes for the service of 
the Brazils, in great numbers. 

They listened always very attentively to my discourses on these 
heads, hut especially to that part which related to the buying 
negroes, which was a trade at that time not only not far entered 
into, but, as far as it was, had been carried on by the Assiento, or 
permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in 
the public, so that few negroes were bought, and those excessive 
dear. 

It happened, being in company with some merchants and planters 
of my acq(1iaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly, 
three of them came to me the next morning, and told me they had 
been musing very much upon wliat I had discoursed with them of, 
the last night, and they came to make a secret proposal to me ; and 
after enjoining mo secrecy, they told me, that they had a mind to fit 
out a ship to go to Guinea, that they had all plantations as \vell as I, 
and were straitened for nothing so much as servants ; that as it w^as 
a trade that could not bo carried on, because they could not publicly 
sell the negroes when they came home, so they desired to iriake but 
one voyage, to bring the negroes on shore privately, and divide them 
among their own plantations; and in a word, the question was, 
whether I would go their supercargo in the shij;) to manage the 
trading part upon the coast of Guinea ? And they offered me that I 
sliould have my equal share of the negroes without providing any 
part of the stock. 

•fliis was a fair proposal it must be confessed, had it been made 
to any one that had not had a settlement and plantation of his own 
to look after, which was in a fair way of coming to bo very consider- 
able, and with a good stock upon it. But for me that was thus 
entered and established, and had nothing to do but go on as I had 
begun for three or four years more, and to have sent for the other 
hundred pounds from England, and who in that time, and with that 
little addition, could scarce have failed of being worth three or four 
thousand pounds sterling, and that increasing too ; for me to think 
of such a voyage, was the most preposterous thing that ever man in 
such circumstances could be guilty of. 

But I that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more resist 
tljo offer than I could restrain my ’first rambling designs, when my 
father’s good counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I told them I 
would go with all my heart, if they would undertako^to look after my 
plantation in iny absence, and would dispose of it to such as I should 
direct if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and entered into 
writings or covenants to do so ; and I made a formal will, disposing 
of my plantation and effects, in case of my death, making the captain 
of the ship that had saved my life, as before, my universal heir, but 
obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had directed in my will, 



30 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


one half of the produce being to himself, and the other to be shipped 
to England. 

In short, I took all possible caution to f'eserve my effects, and 
keep up my plantation ; had I used half as much prudence to have 
looked into my own interest, and have made a judgment of what I 
ought to have done, and not to have done, I had certainly never gone 
away from so prosperous an undertaking, leaving all the probable 
views of a thriving circumstance, and gone upon a voyage to sea, 
attended with all its common hazards; to say nothing of the reasons 
I had to expect particular misfortunes to myself. 

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of my fancy 
rather than my reason ; and accordingly the ship being fitted out, 
and the cargo furnished, and all things done as by agreement, by my 
partners in the voyage, I went on board in an evil hour, the first of 
September, 1659, being the same day eight years that I went from my 
father and mother at Hull, in order to act the rebel to their authority, 
and the fool to my own interest. 

Our ship was about 120 ton burthen, carried 6 guns, and 14 men, 
besides the master, his boy, and myself ; we had on board no lai’ge 
cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit for our trade with 
the negroes, such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles, 
especially little looking-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like. 

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away to the 
northward upon our own coast, with design to stretch over for the 
African coast, when they came about 10 or 12 degrees of northern 
latitude, which it seems was the manner of their course in those days. 
We had very good weather, only excessive hot, all the way upon 5ur 
own coast, till we came to the height of Cape St. Augustino, b’om 
whence keeping farther off at sea we lost sight of land, and steered 
as if we were bound for the Isle Fernand de Noronha, holding our 
course N.E. by N. and leaving those isles on the east ; in this 
course we passed the line in about 12 days’ time, and were by our 
last observation in 7 degrees 22 min. northern latitude, when a violent 
tornado or hurricane took us quite out of our knowledge ; it began 
from the south-east, came about to the north-west, and then settled 
into the north-ea^t, from whence it blew in such a terrible manner, 
that for 12 days together we could do nothing but drive, and scudding 
away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and the fury of the 
winds directed ; and during these 12 days, I need not say, that I 
expected every day to bo swallowed up, nor indeed did any in the 
ship expect to save their lives. 

In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the storm, one of 
our men died of the calenture, and one man and the boy washed 
overboard ; about the 12th day, the weather abating a little, the 
master made an observation as well as he could, and found that he 
was in about 11 degrees north latitude, but that he was 22 degrees 
of longitude difference west from Cape St. Augustino ; so that he 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


found he was gotten upon the coast of Guinea, or the north part of 
Brazil, beyond the river Amazones, toward that of the river Oronoque, 
commonly called the Great Eiver, and began to consult with me what 
course he should take, for the ship was leaky and very much disabled, 
and he was going directly back to the coast of Brazil. 

I was positively against, that, and looking over charts of the sea- 
coast of America with him, we concluded there was no inhabited 



CRUSOE AND THE CAPTAIN CONSULTING THE MAPS. 


country for us to have recourse to, till we came within the circle of 
the Caribbee Islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for Barba- 
does, which by keeping off at sea, to avoid the indraft of the Bay or 
Gulf of Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped, in about 
fifteen days' sail ; whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to 
the coast of Africa without some assistance, both to our ship and to 
ourselves. 


32 


THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


With this design we changed our course and steered away N.W. 
by W. in order to reach some of our English islands, whore I hoped 
for relief ; but our voyage was otherwise determined, for being in 
the latitude of 12 deg. 18 min. a second storm came upon us, which 
carried us away with the same impetuosity westward, and drove us 
so out of the very way of all human commerce, that had all our lives 
been saved, as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being devoured 
by savages than ever returning to our own country. 

In this distress, the wind blowing very hard, one of our men early 
in the morning, cried out, Land 1 and we had no sooner run out of the 
cabin to look out in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we 
were, but the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment hot motion 
being so stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner, that we 
expected we should all have perished immediately, and we were 
immediately driven into our close quarters to shelter us from the very 
foam and spray of the sea. 

It is not easy for anyone, who has not been in the like condition, to 
describe or conceive the consternation of men in such circumstances ; 
we knew nothing where we were, or upon what land it was wo were 
driven, whether an island or the main, w^hether inhabited or not in- 
habited; and as the rage of the wind was still great, though rather 
less than at first, we could not so much as hope to have tlio sliip hold 
many minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the winds by a kind 
ol miracle should turn immediately about. In a word, wo sat looking 
one upon another, and expecting death every moment, and every man 
acting accordingly, as preparing for another world, for there w^as littjo 
or nothing more for us to do in this ; that which w^as our present 
comfort, and all the comfort wq- had, was, tliat contrary to our 
expectation the ship did not break yet, and that the master said the 
wind began to abate. 

Now though we thought that the wind did a little abate, yet the 
ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too fast for us to 
expect her getting off, we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and 
had nothing to do but to think of saving our lives as w^ell as we could ; 
we had a boat at our stern just before the storm, hut she was first 
staved by dashing against the ship’s rudder, and in the next place she 
broke away, and either sunk or was driven off to sea, so there was no*" 
hope from her ; we had another boat on board, but how to get her off 
into the sea, was a doubtful thing ; however, there was no room to 
debate, for we fancied the ship w’-ould break in pieces every minute, 
and some told us she was actually broken already. 

In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of tho boat, and 
with the help of the rest of the men, they got her slung over the 
ship’s side, and getting ail into her, let go, and committed ourselves, 
being eleven in number, to God’s mercy, and the wild sea; for though 
the storm was abated considerably, yet the sea went dreadful high 
upon the shore, and might well be called * den wild zee,’ as tho Dutch 
call the sea in a storm. 






THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 35 

And now onr case was very dismal indeed ; for we all saw plainly 
that the sea went so high, that the boat could not live, and that we 
should be inevitably drowned. As to making sail, we had none, nor, 
if we had, could we have done anything with it; so we worked at the 
oar towards the land, though with heavy hearts, hke men gomg to 
execution ; for we all knew, that when the boat came nearer the 
shore, she would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the 
sea. However, we committed our souls to God in the most earnest 
manner, and the wind driving us towards the shore, we hastened our 
destruction with our own hands, pulling as well as we could towards 
land. 

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether steep or shoal, 
W'e knew not ; the only hope that could rationally give us the least 
shadow of expectation, was, if we might hajjpen into some bay or 
gulf, or the mouth of some river, wliere by great chance we might 
have run our boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps 
made smooth w^ater. But there was nothing of this appeared ; but as 
we made nearer and nearer the shore, the land looked more frightful 
than the sea. 

After we had rowed, or rather driven about a league and a half, 
as w^e reckoned it, a raging w^ave, mountain-like, came rolling a-stern 
of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup-de-grace. In a word, it 
took us with such a fury, that it overset the boat at once ; and sepa- 
rating us as well from the boat, as from one another, gave us not 
time hardly to say, 0 God 1 for we were all swallowed up in a 
moment. 

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt when I 
sunk into the water ; for though I swam very w^ell, yet I could not 
deliver myself from the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave 
having driven me, or rather carried me a vast way on towards the 
shore, and having spent itself, w*ent back, and left me upon the land 
almost dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I bad so much 
presence of mind as well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer the 
mainland than I expected, I got upon my feet, and endeavoured to 
make on towards the land as fast as I could, before another wave 
should return, and take me up again. But I soon found it w^as im- 
possible to avoid it ; for I saw the sea come after me as high as a 
great hill, and as furious as an enemy which I had no means or 
strength to contend with ; my business was to hold my breath, and 
raise myself upon the water, if I could ; and so by swimming to pre- 
serve my breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if possible ; 
my greatest concern now being, that the sea, as it would carry me a 
great way towards the shore when it came on, might not carry me 
back again with it when it gave back towards the sea. 

The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once 20 or 30 
foot deep in its own body ; and T could feel myself carried with a 
mighty force and swiftness towards the shore a very great w^ay ; but 

3-2 



36 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim forward with all my 
might. I was ready to burst with holding my breath, when, as I felt 
myself rising up, so, to niy immediate relief, I found my head and 
hands shoot out above the surface of the water ; and though it was 
not two seconds of time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved 
me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. 1 was covered again 
with water a good while, but not so long but I held it out ; and find- 
ing the water had spent itself, and began to return, I struck forward 
against the return of the waves, and felt ground again witli my feet. 

I stood still a few moments to recover breath, and till the water went 
from me, and then took to my heels, and run with what strength I 
had farther towards the shore. But neither would this deliver me 
from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me again, and 
twice more I was lifted up by the waves, and carried forwards as 
before, the shore being very flat. 

The last time of these two had well near been fatal to me ; for the 
sea having hurried me along as before, landed me, or rather dashed 
me against a piece of rock, and that with such force, as it left me 
senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance ; for the 
blow taking my side and breast, beat the breath as it were quite out 
of my body ; and had it returned again immediately, I must have 
been strangled in the w^ater ; but I recovered a little before the 
return of the waves, and seeing I should bo covered again with the 
water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so to hold 
my breath, if possible, till the wave went back ; now as the waves 
were not so high as at first, being nearer land, I held my hold till the^ 
wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me so 
near the shore, that the next wave, though it went over me, yet did 
not so swallow me up as to carry me away^ and the next run I took, 
1 got to the main land, where, to my great comfort, I clambered up 
the cliffs of the shore, and sat me down upon the grass, free from 
danger, and quite out of the reach of the water. 

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look up and 
thank God that my life was saved in a case wherein there was some 
minutes before scarce any room to hope. I believe it is impossible to 
express to the life what the ecstasies and transports of the soul are, 
when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the very grave ; and I do not 
wonder now at that custom, viz., that when a malefactor, who has 
the halter about his neck, is tied up, and just going to be turned off, 
and has a reprieve brought to him : I say, I do not wonder that they 
bring a surgeon with it, to let him blood that very moment they 
tell him of it, that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits from 
the heart, and overwhelm him : 

‘For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first/ 

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and my whole* 
being, as I may say, wrapt up in the contemplation of my deliverance,. 




R0BIX30S CRUSOE IN AS L SCOMKORTABL.E CO.NLUTIOS, 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 39 

making a thousand gestures and motions which I cannot describe, 
rc'ulectiiig upon all my comrades that were drowned, and that there 
should not be one soul saved but myself ; for, as for them, I never 
saw them afterwards, oi* any sign of them, except three of their hats, 
one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows. 

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach and froth 
of the sea being so big, T could hardly see it, it lay so far off, and 
considered, Lord ! how was it possible I could get on shore ? 

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my con- 
dition, I began to look round me to see what kind of place I was in, 
and wliat was next to be done, and I soon found my comforts abate, 
and thai in a word I had a dreadful deliverance : for I was wet, had 
no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink to comfort 
me, neither did I see any prospect before me, but that of perishing 
with Imnger, or btnng devoure<l by wild beasts ; and that which was 
particularly afflicting to me, was, tliat I had no weapon either to hunt 
and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend myself against 
any other creature tluit might desire to kill me for theirs : in a word, 
I had notliing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little 
tobacco in a box, tliis was all my provision, and this threw me into 
terrible agonies of mind, that for a while I ran about like a madman ; 
night coming upon me, I began with a heavy heart to consider what 
would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that country^ 
seeing at niglit they always come abroad for their prey. 

All tlie remedy tliat offered to my thoughts at that time, was, to 
^t up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, but thorny, which grew 
near me, and where I resolved to sit all night, and consider the next 
day what death I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life ; I 
walked about a furlong from the shore, to see if I could find any 
freshwater to drink, which I did, to my great joy ; and having drunk 
and put a little tobacco in iny mouth to prevent hunger, I went to 
the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to place myself so, as 
that if i should sleep I might not fall ; and having cut me a short 
stick, like a truncheon, for my defence, I took up my lodging, and 
having been excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as com- 
fortably as, I believe, few could have done in my condition, and 
found myself the most refreshed with it, that I think I ever was on 
such an occasion. 

When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and tlie storm 
abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before : but that 
which surprised me most, was, that the ship was lifted off in the 
night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of tide, and was 
driven up almost as far as the rock which I first mentioned, where I 
had been so bruised by the dashing me against it ; this being within 
about a mile from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to 
stand xipright still, I wished myself on board, that, at least, I might 
have some necessary things for my use. 



40 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


When I came down from my. apartment in the tree, I looked about 
me again, and the first thing I found was a boat, which lay as the 
wind and the sea had tossed her up upon the land, about two miles 
on my right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore to have 
got to her, but found a neck or inlet of water between me and tlie 
boat, which was about half a mile broad, so I came back for the 
present, being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped 
to find something for my present subsistence. 

A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and the tide ebbed 
so far out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the sliip ; 
and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief, for I saw evidently, 
that if we had kept on board, w'e had all been safe, that is to say, 
w’c had all got safe on shore, and I had not been so miserable as to 
be left entirely destitute of all comfort and company, as I now was ; 
this forced tears from my eyes again, but as there was little relief in 
that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship, so I pulled off my 
clothes, for the weather was hot to the extremity, and took the water,; 
but when I came to the ship, my difficulty was still greater to know 
bow to get on board, for as she lay a-ground, and high out of the 
water, there was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I swam 
round her twice, and the second time I spied a small piece of a rope, 
which I wondered I did not see at first, hang down by the hn-e- 
chains so low, as that with great difficulty I got hold of it, and by 
the hel23 of that rope, got uj) into the forecastle of the ship ; here I 
found that the ship was bulged, and had a great deal of water in her 
hold, but that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, pr 
rather earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and licr head 
low almost to the w^ater ; by this means all her quarter was free, and 
all that was in that part was dry ; for you may be sure my first work 
was to search and to see what w’^as spoiled and what was free ; and 
first I foxmd that all the ship’s provisions were dry and untouched 
by the water, and being very well disposed to eat, I went to the 
bread-room and filled my pockets witli biscuit, and eat it as I went 
about other things, for 1 had no time to lose ; I also found some rum 
in the great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which I had 
indeed need enough of to spirit me for what was before me. Now I 
wanted nothing but a boat to furnish myself with many things which 
I foresaw would be very necessary to me. 

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had, and 
this extremity roused my application ; we had several spare yards, 
and two or three large spars of wood, and a spare topmast or two 
in the ship. I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung as many 
of them overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying every 
one with a rope that they might not drive away ; when this was 
done I went down the ship’s side, and pulling them to me, I tied 
four of them fast together at both ends as well as I could, in the 
form of a raft, and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 41 


them crossways, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it 
was not able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too light ; 
so I went to work, and with the carpenter’s saw I cut a spare top- 
mast into three lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great 
deal of labour and pains, but hope of furnishing myself With neces- 
saries encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able to 
have done upon another occasion. 



C'UtbOK ON 'lUE eait: 

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight ; 
my next care was what to load it with, and how to preserve what I 
laid upon it from the surf of the sea. But I was not long considering 
this ; I first laid all the plank or boards upon it that 1 could get, and 
having considered well what I most wanted, I first got three of the 
seamen*B chests, which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered 
them down upon my raft ; the first of these I filled with provisions, 


42 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


viz. : bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's 
flesh, which we lived much upon, and a little remainder of European 
corn which had been laid by for some fowls which we brought to sea 
with us, but the fowls were killed ; there had been some barley and 
wlieat together, but, to my great disaj)pointment, I found afterwards 
that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all ; as for liquors, I found 
several cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were some 
cordial waters, and in all about five or six gallons of rack : these I 
stowed by themselves, there being no need to put them into the 
chest, nor no room for them. While I was doing this, I found the 
tide began to flow, though very calm, and I had the mortification to 
see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore* upon the 
s_ind, swim away ; as for my breeches, which were only linen and 
open-kneed, I swam on board in them and my stockings. However, 
this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough, 
but took no more than I wanted for present use,^or I had other 
things which my eye was more upon, as first tools to work with on 
shore, and it was after long searching that I found out the carpenter’s 
chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and much more 
valuable than a ship-loading of gold would have been at that time. 
I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing time 
to look into it, for I knew in general what it contained. 

My next care was for some ammunition, and arms : there were 
two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and two pistols ; 
these I secured first, with some powder-horns, and a small bag of 
shot, and two old rusty swords : I knew there were three barrels of 
powder in the ship, but know not where our gunner had stowed 
them, but with much search I found them, two of them dry and 
good, the third had taken water ; those two I got to my raft, with 
the arms, and now I thought myself pretty well freighted, and began 
to think how I should get to shore with them, having neither sail, 
oar, or rudder, and the least capfull of wind would have overset all 
my navigation. 

I had three encouragements, 1. A smooth calm sea, 2. The tide 
rising and setting in to the shore, 3. What little wind there was 
blew me towards the land ; and thus, having found two or three 
broken oars belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which were 
in the chest, I found two saws, an axe, and a hammer, and with this 
cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very 
well, only that I found it drive a httle distant from the place where 
I had landed before, by which I perceived that there was some 
indraft of the water, and consequently I hoped to find some creek or 
river there, which I might make use of as a port to get to land with 
my cargo. 

As I imagined, so it was, there appeared before me a little opening 
of the land, and I found a strong current of the tide set into it, so 
I guided my raft as well as I could to keep in the middle of the 




THE LIFE AND ADVENT URES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 43 

stream : but bere I had like to have suffered a second shipwreck, 
which, if I had, I think verily would have broke my heart, for know- 
ing nothing of the coast, my raft run a-grouiid at one end of it upon 
a shoal, and not being a-ground at the other end, it wanted but a 
little that all my cargo had slipped off towards that end that was 
afloat, and so fallen into the water. I did my utmost by setting my 
back against the chests, to keep them in their places, but could not 
tlirust off the raft with all my strength, neither durst I stir from 
the posture I was in, but holding up the chests with all my might, 
stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time the rising of 





- 


'•mi 

Mm 



' y'm 












LANDING THS RAFr. 

the water brought me a little more upon a level, and a little after, the 
water still rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust her off with the 
oar I had, into the channel, and then driving up higher, I at length 
found myself in the mouth of a little river, with land on both sides, 
and a strong current or tide running up. I looked on both sides for 
a proper place to get to shore, for I was not willing to be driven too 
high up the river, hoping in time to see some ship at sea, and there- 
fore resolved to place myself as near the coast as I could. 

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, to 
which with great pain and difficulty I guided my raft, and at last got 
so near, as that, reaching ground with my oar, I could thrust her 
directly in, but here I had liked to have dipped all my cargo into the 







44 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


bea again ; for that sliore lying pretty steep, that is to say sloping, 
there was no place to land, but where one end of my float, if it run 
on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink low^er as before, that it 
would endanger my cargo again : all that I could do was to wait till 
the tide was at highest, keeping the raft with my oar like an anchor 
to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece of ground, 
which I expected the water would flow over ; and so it did : as soon 
as I found water enough, for my raft drew about a foot of water, I 
thrust her on upon that flat piece of ground, and there fastened or 
moored her by sticking my two broken oars into the ground ; one on 
one side near one end, and one on the other side near tlie other end ; 
and thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all my 
cargo safe on shore. 

My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper place for 
my habitation, and where to stow my goods to secure them from 
whatever might happen ; where I was I yet knew not, whether on the 
continent or on an island, whether inhabited or not inhabited, whether 
in danger of wild beasts or not : there was a hill not above a mile 
from me, which rose up very steep and high, and which seemed to 
over-top some other hills which lay as in a ridge from it northward ; 
I took out one of the fowling-pieces, and one of the pistols, and an 
horn of powder, and thus armed I travelled for discovery up to the 
top of that hill, where, after I had with gi-eat labour and difiiculty got 
to tlie top, I saw my fate to my great affliction, (viz.) that I was in 
an island environed every way with the sea, no land to be seen, except 
some rocks which lay a great way off, and two small islands less than 
this, which lay about three leagues to the west. 

I found also that the island 1 was in was barren, and, as I saw good 
reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of whom how- 
ever I saw none, yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not their 
kinds, neither when I killed them could I tell what was fit for food, 
and what not ; at my coming back, I shot at a great bird which I saw 
sitting upon a tree on the side of a ^eat wood : I believe it was the 
first gun that had been fired there since the creation of the world ; I 
had no sooner fired, but from all the parts of the wood there arose an 
innumerable number of fowls of many sorts, making a confused 
screaming, and crying every one according to his usual note ; but not 
one of them of any kind that I knew : as for the creature I killed, I 
took it to be a kind of a hawk, its colour and beak resembling it, but 
had no talons or claws more than common : its flesh was carrion, and 
fit for nothing. 

Contented with tliis discovery, I came back to my raft, and fell to 
work to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up the rest of that 
day, and what to do with myself at night I knew not, nor indeed 
-where to rest ; for I was afraid to lie down on the ground, not know- 
,ing but some wild boast might devour me, though, as I afterwards 
found, there was really no need for those fears. 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 45 


However, as well as I could, I barricadoed myself round with the 
chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and made a kind of 
a hut for that night's lodging ; as for food, I yet saw not which way 
to supply myself, except that I had seen two or three creatures like 
hares run out of the wood where I shot the fowl. 

I now began to consider, that I might yet get a great many things 
out of the ship, which would be useful to me, and particularly some 
of the rigging, and sails, and such other things as might come to land, 
and I resolved to make another voyage on board the vessel, if pos- 
sible ; and as I knew that the first storm that blew must necessarily 
break her all in j)ieces, I resolved to set all other things apart, until I 
got everything out of the ship that I could get ; then I called a 
council, that is to say, in my thoughts, whether I should take back 
the raft, but this appeared im])racticable ; so I resolved to go as before, 
when the tide was down, and I did so, only that I stripped before I 
went from my hut, having nothing on but a chequered shirt, and a 
pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet. 

I got on board the ship, as before, and prepared a second raft, and 
having had experience of the first, I neither made this so unwieldy, 
nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought away several things very 
useful to me ; as first, in the carpenter's stores I found two or three 
bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two or 
hatchets, and above all, that most useful thing called a grindstone ; 
all those I secured together, with several things belonging to the 
gunner, particularly two or three iron crows, and two barrels of 
mu«ket-bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling-piece, with some 
small quantity of powder more ; a large bag full of sn^all shot, and a 
great roll of sheet-lead : but this last was so heavy, I could not hoist 
it up to get it over the ship’s side. 

Besides these things, I took all the men’s clothes that I could find, 
and a spare fore-topsail, a hammock, and some bedding ; and with 
this I loaded my second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to 
my very great comfort. 

I was under some apprehensions during my absence from the land, 
that at least my provisions might be devoured on shore ; but when I 
came back, I found no sign of any visitor, only there sat a creature 
like a wild cat upon one of the chests, which when I came towards it, 
ran away a little distance, and then stood still ; she sat very com- 
posed, and unconcerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had a 
mind to be acquainted with me ; I presented my gun at her, but as 
she did not understand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor 
did she offer to stir away ; upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, 
though by the way I was not very free of it, for my store was not 
great : however, I spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled 
of it, and ate it, and looked (as pleased) for more, but I thanked her, 
and could spare no more ; so she marched off. 

Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was fain to open 



46 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels, for they were too 
heavy, being large casks, I went to work to make me a little tent 
with the sail and some poles which I cut for that purpose, and into 
this tent I brought everything that I knew would spoil, either with 
rain or sun, and I piled all the empty chests and casks up in a circle 
round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from man 
or beast. 

When I had done this I blocked up the door of the tent with some 
boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without, and spread- 
ing one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my 
head, and my gun at length by me, I went to bed for the first time, 
and slept very quietly all night, for I was very weary and heavy, for 
the night before I had slept little, and had laboured very hard all day, 
as well as to fetch all those things from the ship, as to get them on 
shore. 

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever were laid 
up, I believe, for one man, but I was not satisfied still; for while 
the ship sat upright in that posture, I thouglit I ought to got every- 
thing out of her that I could ; so every day at low water I went on 
board, and brought away something or other : but particularly the 
third time I went, I brought away as much of the rigging as I could, 
as also all the small ro^Des and rope-twine I could get, with a piece 
of spare canvas, which was to mend the sails upon occasion, the 
barrel of wet gunpowder : in a word, I brought away all the sails first 
and last, only that I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring as much 
at a time as I could ; for they were no more useful to be sails, buf as 
mere canvas only. 

But that which comforted me more still, was, that at last of all, 
after I had made five or six such voyages as these, and thought I 
had nothing more to expect from the ship that was worth my 
meddling with, I say, after all this, I found a great hogshead of 
bread, and three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar, 
and a barrel of fine flour ; this was surprising to me, because I had 
given over expecting any more provisions, except what was spoiled 
by the water ; I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapt 
it up parcel by parcel in pieces of the sails, which I cut out ; and in 
a word, I got all this safe on shore also. 

The next day I made another voyage ; and now having plundered 
the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out, I began with the 
cables ; and cutting the great cable into pieces, such as I could 
move, I got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the ironwork 
I could get ; and having cut down the spritsail-yard, and the 
mizzen-yard, and everything I could to make a large raft, I loaded 
it with all those heavy goods, and came away : But my good luck 
began now to leave me ; for this raft was so unwieldy, and so over- 
laden, that after I was entered the little cove, where I had landed 
the rest of my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 47 


the other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the water ; 
as for myself it was no gi'eat harm, for I was near the si lore ; but as 
to my cargo, it was great part of it lost, especially the iron, which I 
expected would have been of groat use to me : however, when the 
tide was out, I got most of the pieces of cables ashore, and some of 
the iron, though with infinite labour ; for I was fain* to dip for it 
into the water, a work which fatigued me very mucli. After this I 
went every day on board, and brought away what I could get, 

I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven times 
on board the shipTTn'S^fich timer had brought away all that one 
pair of hands could well be supposed capable to bring, though I 
believe verily, had the calm weather held, I should have brought 
away the whole ship piece by piece : but preparing the 12th time 
to go on board, I found the wind begin to rise ; however, at low 
water I went on board, and though I thought I had rummaged the 
cabin so effectually, as that nothing more could bo found, yet I dis- 
covered a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or 
three razors, and one pair of large scissors, with some ton or a 
dozen of good knives and forks ; in another I found about thirty-six 
pounds value in money, some European coin, some Brazil, some 
pieces of eight, some gold, some silver. 

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. O Drug I said I 
aloud, what art thou good for ? thou art not worth fo me, no not the 
taking off of the ground r one of those knives is worth all this heap : 
I have no manner of use for thee, e'en remain where thou art, and 
go to the bottom as a creature whose life is not worth saving. How- 
ever, upon second thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all this in 
a piece of canvas, I began to think of making another raft, but 
while I was preparing this, I found the sky overcast, and the wind 
began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blow a fresh gale from 
the shore ; it presently occurred to me, that it was in vain to pretend 
to make a raft with the wind off shore, and that it was my business 
to be gone l;>efore the tide of flood began, otherwise I might not be 
able to r^ch the shore at all. Accordingly I let myself down into 
the w^er, and swam cross the channel, which lay between the ship 
and^e sands, and even that with difficulty enough, partly with the 
wpight of the things I had about me, and partly the roughness of 
^e water, for the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite 
liigh water, it blew a storm. 

^ But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay with all my 
wealth about me very secure. It blew very hard all the night, and in 
the morrdng when I looked out, behold no more ship was to be seen ; 
I was a little surprised, but recovered myseff with this satisfactory re- 
flection, viz. : that I had lost no time, nor abated no diligence to get 
everything out of her that could be useful to me, and that indeed there 
was little left in her that I was able to bring away if I had had more 
time. 




48 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of anything out 
of her, except what might drive on store from her wreck, as indeed 
divers pieces of her afterwards did ; but those things were of small 
use to me. 

My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself 
against either savages, if any should appear^, or wild beasts, if any 
were in the island ; and I had many thoughts of the method how to 
do this, and what land of dwelUng to make, whether I should make 
me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth : and, in short, I 
resolved upon both, the manner and description of which, it may not 
be improper to give an account of. 

I soon found the place I was in was not for my settlement, parti- 
cularly because it was upon a low moorish ground near the sea, and 
I believed would not be wholesome, and more particularly because 
there was no fresh water near it, so I resolved to find a more healthy 
and more convenient spot of ground. 

I consulted several tilings in my situation which I found would 
be proper for mo. 1st, health, and fresh water I just now mentioned. 
2dly, shelter from the heat of the sun. 3dly, security from ravenous 
creatures, whether men or beasts. 4thly, a view to the sea, that if 
God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any advantage for my 
deliverance, of which I was not willing to banish all my expectation 
yet. 

In search of a place proper for this, I found a little plain on the 
side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little plain was steep as 
a house-side, so that nothing could come down upon me from the 
top ; on the side of this rock there was a hollow place worn a little 
way in like the entrance or door of a cave, but there was not really 
any cave or way into the rock at all. 

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I resolved 
to pitch my tent ; this plain was not above an hundred yards broad 
and about twice as long, and lay like a green before my door, and at 
the end of it descended irregularly every way down into the low- 
grounds by the sea-side. It was on the N.N.W. side of the hill, 
so that I was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a W. 
and by S. sun, or thereabouts, which in those countries is near the 
setting. 

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before the hollow 
place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from the 
rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning and 
ending. 

In this half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving them 
into the ground till they stood very firm like piles, the biggest 
end being out of the ground about five foot and a half, and sharpened 
on the top : the two rows did not stand above six inches from one 
another. 

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship, and 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 49 


I laid them in rows one upon another, within the circle, between 
these two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in the 
inside, leaning against them, about two foot and a half high, like a 
spur to a post, and this fence was so strong, that neither man or 
beast could get into it or over it. This cost me a great deal of time 
and labour, especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to 
the place, and drive them into the earth. 

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door, but 
by a short ladder to go over the top, which ladder, when I was in, 
I lifted over after me, and so I was completely fenced in, and forti- 
fied, as I thought, from all the world, and consequently slept secure 
in the night, which otherwise I could not have done, though as it 
appeared afterward, there was no need of all this caution from the 
enemies that I apprehended danger from. 

Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all my 
riches, all my provisions, ammunition and stores, of which you 
have the account above, and I made me a large tent, which, to pre- 
serve me from the rains that in one part of the year are very violent 
there, I made double, viz., one smaller tent within, and one large 
tent above it, and covered the uppermost with a largo tarpaulin 
which I had saved among the sails. 

And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought 
on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very good one, and 
belonged to the mate of the ship. 

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything that 
would spoil by the wet, and having thus enclosed all my goods, I 
made up the entrance, which till now I had left open, and so passed 
and repas^ed, as I said, by a short ladder. 

When I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock, and 
bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down out through my tent, I 
laid them up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, that so it raised 
the ground within about a foot and a half ; and thus I made me a 
cave just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar to my house. 

It cost me much labour, and many days, before all these things 
were brought to perfection, and therefore I must go back to some 
other things which took up some of my thoughts. At the same 
time it happened after I had laid my scheme for the setting up my 
tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick 
dark cloud, a sudden fiasb of lightning happened, and after that a 
great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of it ; I was not 
so much surprised with the lightning as I was with a thought which 
darted into my mind as swift as the lightning itself. O my powder ! 
My very heart sunk within me, when I thought, that at one blast all 
my powder might be destroyed, on which, not my defence only, but 
ihe providing me food, as I thought, entirely depended ; I was 
nothing near so anxious about my own danger, though had the 
powder took fire, I had never known who had hurt me. 


4 



50 THE LIFE AND ADVENTUFES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


Such impression did this make upon me, that after the storm was 
over, I laid aside all my works, my building, and fortifying, and 
applied myself to make bags and boxes to separate the powder, and 
keep it a little and a little in a parcel, dn hope that whatever might 
come, it might not all take fire at once, and to keep it so apart that 
it should not be possible to make one part fire another. I finislied this 
work in about a fortnight, and I think my powder, which in all was 
about 240 lb. weight, was divided in not less than a hundred parcels ; 
as to the barrel that had been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from 
that, so I placed it in my new cave, which in my fancy I called my 
kitchen, and the rest I hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so 
that no wet might come to it, marking very carefully where 1 laid it. 

In the interval of time while this was doing I went out once at 
least every day with my gun, as well to divert myself, as to see if I 
could kill anything fit for food, and as near as I could to acquaint 
myself with wdiat the island produced. The first time I went out 1 
presently discovered that there were goats in the island, wliich w^as 
a great satisfaction to me ; but then it was attended with this 
misfortune to me, viz. : that they were so shy, so subtile, and so 
swift of foot, that it w^as the difiicultcst thing in the world to come 
at them. But I was not discouraged at this, not doubting but I 
might now and then shoot one, as it soon happened, for after I had 
found their haunts a little, 1 laid vv^ait in this manner for them : 1 
observed if they saw me in the valleys, though they were upon the 
rocks, they would run away as in a terrible fright ; but if tliey were 
feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took no notice 
of me, from whence I concluded, that by the position of tiieir optihs, 
their sight was so directed downward, that they did not readily see 
objects that were above them ; so afterward I took this method, 1 
always climbed the rocks first to get above them, and then had 
frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made among these creatures, 
I killed a she-goat which had a little kid by her which she gave suck 
to, which grieved me heartily ; but 'when the old one fell, the kid 
stood stock still by her till I came and took her up : and not only so, 
but when I carried the old one with me upon my shoulders, the kid 
followed me quite to my enclosure, upon which I laid down the dam, 
and took the kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes 
to have bred it up tame ; but it would not eat, so I was forced to kill 
it and eat it myself : these two supplied me with flesh a great while, 
for I eat sparingly, and saved my provisions (my bread especially) 
as much as possibly I could. 

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely necessary 
to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to burn ; and what I 
did for that, as also how I enlarged my cave, and what conveniences 
I made, I shall give a full account of in its place. But I must first 
give some little account of myself, and of my thoughts about living, 
which it may well be supposed were not a few. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 51 


I had a dismal prospect of my condition, for as I was not cast 
away upon that island without being driven, as is said, by a violent 
storm quite out of the course of our intended voyage, and a great 
way, viz. some hundreds of leagues, out of the ordinary course of 
the trade of mankind, I had great reason to consider it as a deter- 
mination of Heaven, that in this desolate place, and in this desolate 
manner, I should end my life; the tears would run plentifully down 
my face when I made these reflections, and sometimes I would 
expostulate with myself, why Providence should thus completely 
ruin its creatures, and render them so absolutely miserable, so with- 
out help abandoned, so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be 
rational to be thankful for sucli a life. 

But something always returned swift upon me to check these 
thoughts, and to reprove me ,* and particularly one day walking with 
my gun in my hand by the seaside, I was very pensive upon the 
subject of my j)resent condition, when reason as it were expostulated 
with me the other way, thus : Well, you are in a desolate condition 
it is true, but pray remember, where are the rest of you? Did not 
you come eleven of you into the boat ? where are the ten ? Why 
were not they saved and you lost ? Why were you singled out ? Is 
it better to be here or them? and then I j)oiuted to the sea. All 
evils are to bo considered with the good that is in them, and witli 
what worse attends them. 

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for my 
subsistence, and what would have been my case if it had not hap- 
pcyred, which was an hundred thousand to one, that the ship floated 
from the place where she first struck and was driven so near the 
shore that I had time to get all these things out of her. What would 
have been my case, if I had been to have lived in the condition in 
which I at first came on shore, without necessaries of life, or neces- 
saries to supply and xirocure them? Particularly, said I aloud 
(though to myself), what should I have done without a gun, without 
ammunition, without any tools to make anything, or to work with, 
without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any manner of covering ? and 
that now I had all these to a sufficient quantity, and was in a fair 
way to provide myself in such a manner as to live without my gun 
when my ammunition was spent ; so that I had a tolerable view of 
subsisting without any want as long as I lived ; for I considered from 
the beginning how I would provide for the accidents that might 
happen, and for the time that was to come, even not only after my 
ammunition should be spent, but even after my health or strengtn 
should decay. 

I confess I had not entertained any notion of my ammunition 
being destroyed at one blast, I mean my powder being blown up by 
lightning, and this made the thoughts of it so surprising to me when 
it lightened and thundered, as I observed just now. 

And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene of 



52 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


silent life, such perhaps as was never heard of in the world before, I 
shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in its order. It was, 
by my account, the 30th of Sept, when, in the manner as above 
said, I first set foot upon this hotrid island, when the sun being, to 
us, in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over my head, for I 
reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of 9 degrees 22 
minutes north of the line. 

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my 
thoughts, that T should lose my reckoning of time for want of books 
and pen and ink, and should even forget the Sabbath days from the 
working days ; but to prevent this I cut it with my knife upon a 
large post, in capital letters, and making it into a great cross I set it 
up on the shore where I first landed, viz., I came on shore here on 
the 30th Sept., 1659. Upon the sides of this square post, I cut 
every day a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch was as 
long again as the rest, and every first day of the month as long again 
as that long one, and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, 
and yearly reckoning of time. 

In the next place we are to observe, that among the many things 
which I brought out of the ship in the several voyages which, as 
above mentioned, I made to it, I got several things of less value, but 
not all less useful to me, which I omitted setting down before ; as in 
particular, pens, ink, and paper, several parcels in the captain’s, 
mate’s, gunner’s, and carpenter’s keeping, tliree or four compasses, 
some mathematical instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and 
books of navigation, all which I huddled together, whether I might 
want them or no ; also I found three very good Bibles which came 
to me in my cargo from England, and which I had packed up among 
my things ; some Portuguese books also, and among them two or 
three Popish prayer-books, and several other books, all which I care- 
fully secured. Aijd I must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog 
and two cats, of whose eminent history I may have occasion to say 
something in its place ; for I carried both the cats with mo ; and as 
for the dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself and swam on shore 
to me the day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and was a 
trusty servant to me many years ; I wanted nothing that he could 
fetch me, nor any company that he could make up to me ; I only 
wanted to have him talk to me, but that would not do : as I observed 
before, I found pen, ink, and paper ; and I husbanded them to the 
utmost, and I shall show, that while my ink lasted, I kept things 
very exact ; but after that was gone, I could not, for I could not make 
any ink by any means that I could devise. 

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, notwith- 
standing all that I had amassed together, and of these, this of ink 
was one, as also spade, pick-axe and shovel, to dig or remove the 
earth ; needles, pins, and thread ; as for linen, I soon learned to want 
that without much difficulty. 




HOBTKSOK CKUSOE'S CALENDAR.- 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 55 

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily, and it was 
near a whole year before I had entirely finished my little pale or sur- 
rounded habitation : the piles or stakes, which were as heavy as I 
could well lift,- were a long timo in cutting and preparing in the 
woods, and more by far in bringing home, so that I spent sometimes 
two days in. cutting and bringing home one of those posts, and a 
third day in driving it into the ground ; for which purpose I got a 
heavy piece of wood at first, but at last bethought myself of one of 
the iron crows, which however, though I found it, yet it made driving 
those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. 

But what need I have been concerned at the tediousness of any- 
thing I had to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in, nor had I 
any other employment if that had been over, at least, that I could 
foresee, except the ranging the island to seek for food, which I did 
more or less every day. 

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the circum- 
stance I was reduced to, and I drew up the state of my affairs in 
writing ; not so much to leave them to any that were to come after me, 
for I was like to have but few heirs, as to deliver my thoughts from 
daily poring upon them, and afflicting my mind ; and as my reason 
began now to master my despondency, I began to comfort myself as 
well as I could, and to set the good against the evil, that I might 
have something to distinguish my case from worse ; and I stated it 
very impartially, like debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed, 
against the miseries I suffered, thus ; 


’ Eviii. 

I am cast u'pon a horrible deso- 
late island, void of all hope of 
recovery, 

I am singled out and- separated, 
as it were, from all the world to 
be miserable. 


I am divided from mankind, a 
solitaire, one banished from human 
society, 

I have 710 clothes to cover me. 


I am without any defefice or 
means to resist any violence of 
man or beasU 


Good. 

But I am alive, and not drowned 
as all my ship*s company was. 

But I am singled oxit too from 
all the ship's crew to he spared 
from death ; aTid He that miracu- 
lously saved me from death, can 
deliver me from this condition. 

But I am not starved and per- 
ishing 071 a barren place, affordiTig 
no sustenance. 

But I am in a hot climate, 
where if I had clothes I could 
hardly wear them. 

But I am cast on an isla7id, 
where I see no wild beasts to hurt 
me, as I saw 07i the coast of 
Africa : and what if I had been 
shipwrecked there ? 



56 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


I hwve no soul to si)cah to, or Bui God wondcrfidly sent the 
relieve me. ship in near enough to the shore, 

that I have gotten out so many 
necessary things as will either 
supply my icants, or enable me to 
supply myself even as long as I 
live. 

Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that there was 
scarce any condition in the world so miserable, but there was some- 
thing negative or something positive to be thankful for in it ; and let 
this stand as a direction from the experience of the most miserable 
of all conditions in this world, that we may always find in it some- 
thing to comfort ourselves from, and to set in the description of good 
and evil, on the credit side of the account. 

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condition, and 
given over looking out to sea to see if [ could s])y a ship ; I say, 
giving over these things, 1 began to apply myself to ac*x*ommodate my 
way of living, and to make things as easy to me as 1 could. 

I have already described my habitation, which was a tent under 
the side of a rock, surrounded by a strong pale of posts and cables, 
but I might now rather call it a wall, for I raised a kind of wall up 
against it of turfs, about two foot thick on the outside, and after some 
time, I think it was a year and half, I raised rafters from it leaning 
to the rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees, and 
such things as I could get to keep out the rain, which I found at some 
times of the year very violent. 

I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this pale, 
and into the cave which I had made behind me : but I inust observe 
too, that at first this w^as a confused heap of goods, wdiich as tliey 
lay in no order, so they took up all my place, 1 had no room to turn 
myself : so I set myself to enlarge my cave and w^orks farther into 
the earth, for it w^as a loose sandy rock, which yielded easily to the 
labour I bestow^ed on it : and so when I fomid I \vas pretty safe as 
to beasts of prey, I worked sideways to the rigljt hand into the rock, 
and then turning to the right again, worked quite out and made me 
a door to come out, on the outside of my pale or fortification. 

This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were a back-way 
to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to stow my goods. 

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things 
as I found I most wanted, as particularly a chair and a table, for 
without these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the 
world ; I could not write, or eat, or do several things wuth so much 
pleasure without a table. 

So I went to work ; and here I must needs observe, that as reason 
is the Bubstance^and original of the mathematics, so by stating and 
squaring everything by reason, and by making the most rational judg- 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 57 


meiit of tliiiigs, every man may be in time master of every mechanic 
art. I had liever handled a tool in my life, and yet in time by 
labour, application, and contrivance, I found at last that I wanted 
nothing but 1 could have made it, especially if I had had tools ; how- 
ever I made abundance of things, oven without tools, and some with 
no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, whicli perhaps were never 
made that way before, and that wuth infinite labour : for example, if 
I wanted a board, I had no other way but to ent dowm a tree, set it 
on an edge befoi'c me, and hew it flat on eitlier side with my axe, till 
I had brought it to be thin as a plank, and then dub it smooth with 
my adze. It is true, by this method I could make but one board out 
of a wliole tree, but this I had no remedy for but patience, any more 
than I had for the prodigious deal of time and labour wliich it took 
me up to make a plank or board ; but my time or labour was little 
worth, and so it was as well employed one way as a ]i other. 

However, I made mo a table and a chair, as T observed above, in 
the first place, and this 1 did out of the short pieces of boards that I 
brought on my i-aft from the ship : but when 1 had wrought out some 
boards, as above, I made large shelves of the breadth of a foot and 
half one over another, all along one side of my cave, to lay all my 
tools, nails, and ironwork, and in a word, to separate everything at 
large iji their places, that 1 might come easily at them ; I knocked 
pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my guns and all things that 
would hang up. 

So that had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a general 
niftgaziiic of all necessary things, and I liad overytliing so ready at 
my hand, that it was a great pleasure to mo to see ail my goods in 
such order, and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so great. 

j\nd uow^ it was when I began to keep a journal of every day’s 
cmplb^micnt, for indeed at first I was in too much hurry, and not 
only hurry as to labour, but in too much discomposure of mind, and 
my journal would have been full of many dull things : for example, 
I must have said thus : Hept. the 30th. After I got to shore and had 
escaped drowning, instead of being thankful to God for my deliver- 
ance, having first vomited with the great quantity of salt water 
whicli was gotten into my stomach, and recovering myself a little, I 
ran about the shore, wringing my bauds and beating my head and 
face, exclaiming at my misery, and crying out, I was undone, undone ; 
till, tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on the ground to repose, 
but durst not sleep for fear of being devoured. 

Some days after this, and after I had been on board the sliij), and 
got all that I could out of her, yet I could not forbear getting up to 
tlie top of a little mountain and looking out to sea in liopcs of seeing 
a ship ; then fancy at a vast distance I spied a sail, please myself with 
the hopes of it, and then after looking steadily till I w^as almost blind, 
lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus increase 
my misery by my folly* 



58 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


But having gotten over these things in some measure, and having 
settled my household stuff and habitation, made me a table and a 
chair, and all as handsome about me as I could, 1 began to keep my 
journal, of which I shall here give you the copy (though in it will be 
told all these particulars over again) as long as it lasted, for having 
no more ink I was forced to leave it off. 

THE JOUKNAL. 

September 30, 1659. I, poor miserable Eobinson Crusoe, being ship- 
wrecked, during a dreadful storm, in the offing, came on shore on this 
dismal unfortunate island, which I called the Island of Despair, all 
the rest of the ship’s company being di-owned", and myself almost 
dead. 

All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself at the dismal 
circumstances J was brought to, viz., I had neither food, house, 
clothes, weapon, or place to ffy to, and in despair of any relief, saw 
nothing but death before me, either that I should be devoured by 
wild beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death for want of 
food. At the approach of night, I slept in a tree for fear of wild 
creatures, but slept soundly though it rained all night. 

October 1. In the morning I saw to my great surprise the ship had 
floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore again much nearer 
the island, which as it was some comfort on one hand, for seeing her 
sit upright, and not broken to pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I 
might get on board, and get some food and necessaries out of her -for 
my relief; so, on the other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my 
comrades, who I imagined if we had all stayed on board might have 
saved the ship, or at least that they would not have been all drowned 
as they were ; and that had the men been saved, we might perhaps 
have built us a boat out of the ruins of the ship, to have carried us to 
some other part of the world. I spent great part of this day in 
perplexing myself on these things ; but at length, seeing the ship 
almost dry, I went upon the sand as near as I could, and then swam 
on board ; this day also it continued raining, though with no wind 
at all. 

From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days entirely spent 
in many several voyages to get all I could out of the ship, which I 
brought on shore, every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain 
also in these days, though with some intervals of fair weather : but, 
it seems, this was the rainy season. 

Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got upon it, 
but being in shoal water, and the things being chiefly heavy, I re- 
covered many of them when the tide was out. 

Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some gusts of wind, 
during which time the ship broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little 
harder than before, and was no more to be seen, except the wreck of 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 59 

her, and that only at low water. I spent this day in covering and 
securing the goods which I had saved, that the rain might not spoil 
them. 

Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day to find out a 
place to fix my habitation, greatly concerned to secure myself from 
an attack in the night, cither from wild beasts or men. Towards 
night I fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and marked out a 
semicircle for my encampment, which I resolved to strengthen with 
a work, wall, or fortification made of double piles, lined within with 
cables, and without with turfs. 

From the 26 th to the 30th I worked very hard in carrying all my 
goods to my new habitation, though some part of the time it rained 
exceeding hard. 

The 31st in the morning I went out into the island with my gun 
to seek for some food, and discover the country, when I killed a she- 
goat, and her kid followed me home, which I afterwards killed also, 
because it would not feed. 

November 1. I set up my tent upon a i-ock, and lay there for 
the first night, making it as large as I could with stakes driven in to 
swing my hammock upon. 

Nov, 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the pieces of 
timber which made my rafts, and with them formed a fence round 
me, a little within the place I had marked out for my fortification. 

Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls like ducks, 
which were very good food. In the afternoon went to work to make 
m« a table. 

Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of work, of 
going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion, viz. : 
Every morning I walked out with my gun for two or three hours 
if it did not rain, then employed myself to work till about eleven 
o'clock, then eat what I had to live on, and from twelve to two 
I lay down to sleep, the weather being excessive hot, and then in 
the evening to work again : the working part of this day and of 
the next were wholly employed in making my table, for I was yet 
but a very sorry workman, though time and necessity made me a 
complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe it would do any- 
one else. 

Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and my dog, and 
killed a wild cat, her skin pretty soft, but hor flesh good for nothing : 
every creature I killed, I took off the skins and preserved them : 
coming back by the sea-shore, I saw many sorts of sea-fowls, which 
I did not understand ; but was surprised and almost frightened with 
two or three seals, which, while I was gazing at, not well knowing 
what they were, got into the sea, and escaped me for that time. 

Nov, 6. After my morning walk T went to work with my table 
again, and finished it, though not to my liking ; nor was it long before 
I learnt to mend it. 



6o THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 7th, 8th, 
9th, 10th, and part of the 12th, (for tlie 11th was Sunday) I took 
wholly up to make me a chy;ir, and with much ado brought it to a 
tolerable shape, but never to please me ; and even in the making I 
pulled it in pieces several times. Note, I soon neglected my keeping 
Sundays, for omitting my mark for them on my post, I forgot whicJi 
was which. 

Nov. 13. This day it rained, which refreshed me exceedingly, and 
cooled the earth, but it was accompanied with terrible thundei’ and 
liglitning, w'hich frightened me dreadfully for fear of my powder ; as 
soon as it was over, I resolved to separate my stock of powder into 
as many little parcels as possible, that it might not be in danger. 

Nov. 14, 15, IG. These three days I spent in making little square 
chests or boxes, wdiich might hold about a pound, or two pound, at 
most, of powder ; and so putting the powder in, I stowed it in 
places as secure and remote from one another as possible. On cue 
of these three days I killed a large bird that was good to eat, but 1 
know not what to call it. 

No. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent into the rock to 
make room for my farther conveniency. Note, two things 1 w' an ted 
exceedingly for this w^ork, viz., a pick-axe, a shovel, and a wheel- 
barrow or basket, so I desisted fi*om my work, and began to consider 
how to supply that want and make me some tools ; as for a })ick-axe-, 
I made use of the iron crows, wdiich wxn-e proper enough, though 
heav}^ ; but the next thing was a shovel or spade ; this w^as so 
absolutely necessary, tliat indeed I could do nothing eflectualiy 
without it, but what kind of one to make I know not. 

Nov. 18. The next day in searching the woods I found a tree of 
that wood, or like it, which in the Brazils they call the Iron tree, 
for its exceeding hardness ; of this, with great labour and almost 
spoiling my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home too with dilhculty 
enough, for it was exceeding heavy. 

The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no other way, 
made me a long while upon this machine, for I worked it effectually 
by little and little into the form of a shovel or spade, the handle 
exactly shaped like ours in England, only that the broad part 
having no iron sliod upon it at bottom, it would not last me so long ; 
however it served well enough for the uses which I had occasion to 
pnt it to ; but never was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, 
or so long a making. 

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a wlieehbarrow ; a 
basket I could not make by any means, having no such things as 
twigs that would bend to make wicker ware, at least n -uie yet found 
out ; and as to a wheel-barrow, I fancied I could make all but the 
wheel, but that I had no notion of, neither did I know how to go 
about it ; besides I had no possible way to make the iron gudgeons 
for the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave it over, and 



HIE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 6i 


so for carrying away the earth which I dug out of the cave, I made 
me a thing like a hod, which the labourers carry mortar in, when 
they serve the bricklayers. 

This was not so dilhcult to me as the making the shovel ; and yet 
this, and the shovel, and the attempt which I made in vain to make 
a wheehbarrow, took mo up no less than four days, I mean always 
excepting my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom failed, and 
very seldom failed also bi'inging home something lit to eat. 

Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still, because of my 
making these tools, wlien they were finished I went on, and work- 
ing every day, as my strength and time allo^ved, I spent eighteen 
days entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it might hold 
my goods commodiously. 

Note, During all this time, I worked to make this room or cave 
spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse or magazine, a 
kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar; as for my lodging, I kept to 
the tent, except that sometimes in the wet season of the year, it 
rained so hard that I could not keep myself dry, which caused me 
afterwards to cover all my place within my pale with long poles in 
the form of rafters leaning against the rock, and load them with 
flags and large leaves of trees like a thatch. ‘ 

December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault finished, 
when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a great quantity 
of earth fell down from the top and one side, so much, that in short 
it frighted me, and not without reason too ; for if I had been under 
it I had never wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster I had a 
great deal of work to do over again ; for I had the loose earth to 
carry out, and, which was of more im^Dortance, I had the ceiling to 
prop up, so that I might be sure no more would come down. 

Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly, and got 
two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of 
boards across over each post ; this I finished the next day ; and 
setting more posts up with boards, in about a week more I had the 
roof secured ; and the posts standing in rows, served me for par- 
titions to part ofi* my house. 

Dec. 17. F]'om this day to the twentieth I placed shelves, and 
knocked up nails on the posts to hang everything up that could be 
hung up ; and now I began to be in some order within doors. 

Dec. 20. Now I carried everything into the cave, and began to 
furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards, like a dresser, 
to order my victuals upon, but boards began to be very scarce with 
me ; also 1 made me another table. 

Dec, 24. Much rain all night and all day : no stirring out. 

Dec. 25. Eain all day. 

Dec. 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler than before, and 
pleasanter. 

Dec, 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed another so that I caught 



62 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


it and led it home in a string ; when I had it home I bound and 
splintered up its leg which was broke. N.B. I took such care of it, 
that it lived, and the leg grew well and as strong as ever ; but by my 
nursing it so long it grew tame, and fed upon the little green at my 
door, and would not go away : this was the first time that I enter- 
tained a thought of breeding up some tame creatures, that I might 
have food when my powder and shot was all spent. 

Dec. 28, 29, 30. Great heats and no breeze ; so that there was no 
stirring abroad, except in the evening for food ; this time 1 spent in 
putting all my things in order within doors. 

January 1. Very hot still, but I went abroad early and late with 
my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day ; this evening going 
farther into the valleys which lay towards the centre of the island, I 
found there was plenty of goats, though exceeding shy and hard to 
come at ; however I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt 
them down. 

Jan. 2. Accordingly, the next day, I went out with my dog, and 
set him upon the goats ; but I was mistaken, for they all faced i bout 
upon the dog, and he knew his danger too well, for he would not come 
near them, 

Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall ; which, being still jealous of my 
being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very thick and 
strong. 

N.B. This wall being described before, I purposely ^omit wdiat 
was said in the journal ; it is suliicient to observe, that I was 
no less time than from the 3rd of January to the i4tlTt of 
April, working, finishing and perfecting this wall, though it 
was no more than about 24 yards in length, being a half- 
circle from one place in the rock to another place about 
eight yards from it, the door of the cave being iii the centre 
behind it. 

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me many 
days, nay sometimes w^eks together; but I thought I should never 
be perfectly secure till tliis wall was finished ; and it is scarce credible 
what inexpressible labour everything was done with, especially the 
bringing piles out of the woods, and driving them into the ground, for 
I made them much bigger than I need to have done. 

When this wall was finished, and the outside double fenced with a 
turf-wall raised up to close it, I persuaded myself that if any people 
were to come on shore there, they would not perceive anything like 
a habitation ; and it was very well I did so, as may be observed 
hereafter upon a very remarkable occasion. 

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for game every 
day, when the rain admitted me, and made frequent discoveries in 
these walks of something or other to my advantage ; particularly I 
found a kind of wild pigeons, who built not as wood pigeons, in a tree, 





THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 65 


but rather as house pigeons, in the lioles of the rocks ; and taking 
some young ones, T endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did so ; 
but when they grew older they flew all away, which perhaps was at 
-first for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them ; how- 
ever I frequently found tlieir nests, and got their young ones, which 
were very good meat. 

And now, in the managing my household affairs, I found myself 
wanting in many things, which I thought at first it was impossible 
for me to makeg as indeed as to some of them it was ; for instance, I 
could never make a cask to be hooped. I had a small runlet or two, 
as I observed before, but I could never arrive to the capacity of making 
one by them, though 1 spent many weeks about it; I could neither 
put in the hcurds, or joint the staves so true to one another, as to make 
them hold water, so i gave that also over. 

In the next place, I wns at a great loss for candle ; so that as soon 
as over it was dai-k, wliicli was generally by seven o'clock, I was 
obliged to go to bed ; I rcmiembcred the lump of beeswax with which 
I made candles in niy Alrican adventure, but I had none of that 
now ; the only remedy I had was, that when I had killed a goat, I 
saved the tallow, and with a little disli made of clay, which I baked 
in the sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum, I made mo a 
lamp ; and this gave me light, though not a clear steady light like a 
candle. In the middle of all my labours it ha])j)ened, that rummaging 
my things, I found a little bag, which, as I hinted before, bad been 
filled witli corn for the feeding of poultry, not for this voyage, but 
befoico, as I suppose, when tlic ship came from Lisbon; what little 
remainder of corn had been in the bag was all devoured with the 
rats, and 1 saw nothing in the bag but husks aud dust ; and being 
willing to have the bag for some other use, I think it was to put 
powdci’ in, when 1 divided it for fear of the lightning, or some such 
use, I shook the husks of corn out of it on one side of my fortification 
under the i*ock. 

It was a little before the great rains, just now mentioned, that I 
threw tliis stuil away, taking no notice of anything, and not so much 
as remembering that I had thrown anything there; when about a 
month after, or thereabout, I saw some few stalks of something 
green shooting out of the ground, which I fancietl might be some 
plant I had not seen ; but 1 was surprised and perfectly astonished, 
when, after a little longer time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come 
out, which were perfectly green barley of the same kind as our 
Luropean, nay, as our English barley. 

, impossible to express the astonishment and confusion of my 
thoughts on this occasion ; I had hitherto acted upon no religious 
loundation at all, indeed I had very few notions of religion in my 
h^d, or had entertained any sense of anything that had befallen me, 
otherwise than as a chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases God ; 
without so much as inquiring into the end of Providence in these 

5 



60 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


things, or His order in governing events in the world. But after I 
saw barley grow there, in a climate which I knew was not proper for 
corn, and especially that I knew not how it came there, it startled 
me strangely, and I began to suggest that God had miraculously 
caused this grain to grow without any help of seed sown, and that it 
was so directed purely for my sustenance, on that wild miserable 
place. 

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my eyes, 
and I began to bless myself, that such a prodigy of nature should 
happen upon my account ; and this was the more strange to me, 
because I saw near it still, all along by tlie side of tlie rock, sojuo 
other straggling stalks, which proved to ht^ stalks of rice, and which 
I knew, because I had seen it grow in Alrica, when 1 was ashore 
there. 

I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence for 
my support, but not doubting but that there was more in the ]>lace, 
I wert ail over that x^art of the island, where I had been before, 
peering in every corner, and under every rock, to see for ]uore of it, 
blit 1 could not find any; at last it occurred to my thoughts, that I 
had shook a bag of cliickens’ meat out in that pia-ce, and tlien the 
wonder began to cease ; and 1 must confess, my religious thankful- 
ness to God’s Providence began to abate, too, upon the discoviTing 
that all this was nothing butw hat was common ; though 1 ongVit to have 
been as thankful for so strange and unforesecu a Providence as if it had 
been miraculous ; for it was really the work of Providence as to me, 
that should order or apiioiut that 10 or 12 grains of corn sh’ould 
remain unspoiled (when the rats had destroyed all the rest), as if it 
had been dropped from heaven ; as also, that I should tlirowit outiu 
that particular place, where it being in the shade of a high rock, it 
sprang \xp immediately ; whereas, if I had thrown it anywhere else, at 
that time, it had been burnt up and destroyed. 

I carefully saved the ears of this corn you may be sure in their 
season, which was about the end of June ; and laying up every corn, 
I resolved to bow them all again, hoping in time to have some 
quantity sufficient to supply me with bread ; but it was not till the 
4th year that I could allow myself the least grain of this corn to 
eat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall say afterwards in its 
order ; for I lost all that I sowed the first season, by not observing 
the proper time ; for I sowed it just before the dry season, so that it 
never came up at all, at least, not as it would have done : of which in 
its place. 

Besides this barley, there was, as above, 20 or 30 stalks of rice, 
which I preserved with the same care, and whose use was of the 
same kind or to the same purpose, viz., to make me bread, or rather 
food ; for I found ways to cook it up without baking, though I did 
that also after some time. But to return to my journal. 

I worked excessive hard these three or four months to get my wall 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 67 


done ; and tho 14th of April I closed it up, contriving to go into it, 
not by a door, but over the wall by a ladder, that there might be no 
sign ill the outside of my habitation. 

April 16. I finished the ladder, so I went up with the ladder to 
the top, and then pullcKl it up after me, and let it down in the inside: 
This was a complete enclosure to mo ; for within I had room enough, 
and nothing could come at me from without, unless it could first 
mount my wall. 

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost had 
all my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed; the case was 
thus : As I was busy in tho inside of it, behind niy tent, just in the 
entrance into my cave, I was terribly frightened with a most dreadful 
surprising thing indeed ; for all on a sudden I found the earth come 
crumbling down from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of the 
hill over my head, and two of the posts I had set up in tiie cave 
cracked in a frightful manner: I was heartily scared, but thought 
iiothing of what was really the cause, only thinking that the top of 
iny cave vas falling in, as some of it had done beWo ; and for fear 
1 should bo buried in it, Iran fon\anI to iny ladder, and not thinking 
myself safe there neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces 
of the hill which I expected might roll down n])on me ; 1 v\is 
no sooner stepped down upon the linn ground, but I plainly saw it 
\yas a terrible eariliquako, for tlic groimd 1 stood on shook three 
times at about eight minutes distance, with three such shocks as 
would have overturned tiic strongest building that could be supposed 
to fiave stood on tlie earth, and a great piece of tlie top of a rock, 
which stood about half a mile from me next the sea, fell down with 
such a torriblo noise as I never heard in all my life: I perceived also 
tho very sea wars put into violent motion by it; and I believe the 
sJ locks were stronger under the water than on the island. 

1 was so amazed Avitli the thing itself, having never felt the like, 
or discoursed with any one that had, that I was like one dead or 
stupf3fiod ; and tho motion of the earth mmic my stomach sick like 
one that wars tossed at sea ; but the noise of tho falling of the rock 
awaked me as it were, and rousing me from the stupefied conditiou J 
was in, filled me with horror, and I thought of nothing then but the 
hill failing upon my tent and all my household goods, and burying all 
at once ; and this sunk my very soul within me a second time. 

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time, 
i began to take courage, and yet I had not heart enough to go over 
niy wall again, for fear of being buried alive, but sat still upon the 
giound, greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do : 
K + while I had not the least serious religious thought, nothing 
u the common. Lord have mercy upon me ; and when it was over, 
that went away too. 

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy, as ii 
t would rain ; soon after that the wind rose, by little and littlOi so 

5-2 



68 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


that, in less than half an hour, it blew a most dreadful hurricane : 
the sea was all on a sudden covered with foam and froth , the shore 
was covered with the breach of the water, the trees were torn up by 
the roots, and a terrible storm it was ; and this held about three 
hours, and then began to abate, and in two houi’s more it was stark 
calm, and began to rain very hard. 

All this while I sat upon the ground very much terrified and 
dejected, when on a sudden it came into my thoughts, that these 
winds and rain being the consequences of the earthquake, the earth- 
quake itself was spent and over, and I might venture into my cave 
again. With this thought my spirits began to revive, and tlie rain 
also helping to persuade me, I wont in and sat dowm in my tent, but 
the rain was so violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten down 
with it, and I was forced to go into my c^ive, thougli very much 
afraid and uneasy for fear it should fall on my head. 

This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to cut a hole 
through my new fortification like a sink to let the water go out, 
which would else have drowmed my cave. After I had been in my 
cave some time, and found still no more shocks of tlic eartliquake 
follow, I began to be more cornjiosed ; and now to su])port my 
spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store 
and took a small siqj of rnm, which Jjow'ev<jr I did tlien and ahvays 
very sparingly, knowdng I could have no more wiieii that was gone. 

It continued raining all that night, and great part of the next day, 
so that I could not stir abroad, but my mind being more composed, 
I bega-n to think of what I had best do, concluding that if the island 
was subject to these earthquakes, there w’ould be no living for me in 
a cave, but I must consider of building mo some little hut in an 
open place which I might surround witli a wall as I had done here, 
and so make myself secure from wild beasts or mou ; but concluded, 
if I stayed where I was, I should certainly, one time or other, bo 
buried alive. 

With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent from the place 
where it stood, which was just under the hanging precipice of the 
hill, and which, if it should be shaken again, would certainly fall 
upon my tent : and I spent the two next days, being the 19th and 
20th of April, in contriving where and how to remove my habitation. 

The fear of being swallowed up alive, made me that I never slept 
in quiet, and yet the apprehensions of lying abroad without any 
fence was almost equal to it ; but still when 1 looked about and saw 
how everything was put in order, how pleasantly concealed I was, 
and how safe from danger, it made me very loth to remove. 

In the meantime it occurred to me that it would require avast deal 
of time for me to do this, and that I must be contented to run the 
venture where I was, till I had formed a camp for myself, and had 
secured it so as to remove to it : so with this resolution I composed 
myself for a time, and resolved that I would go to work with all 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 69 


speed to build me a wall with piles and cables, etc., in a circle as 
before, and set my tent up in it when it was finished, but that I 
would venture to stay where I was till it was finished and fit to 
remove to. This was the 21st. 

April 22. The next morning I began to consider of means to put 
this resolve in execution, but I was at a great loss about my tools ; 
I had three large axes and abundance of hatchets (for we carried the 
hatchets for traffic with the Indians), but with much chopping and 
cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches and dull, and 
though I had a grindstone I could not turn it and grind my tools too : 
this cost me as much thought as a statesman would have bestowed 
upon a grand point of politics, or a judge upon the life and death of 
a man. At length I contrived a wheel with a string, to turn it with 
my foot, that I might have both my hands at liberty. Note, I had 
never seen any such thing in England, or at least not to take notice 
how it was done, though since I have observed it is very common 
there ; besides that, my grindstone was very large and heavy. This 
machine cost me a full week’s work to bring it to perfection. 

April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding my tools, 
my machine for turning my grindstone performing very well. 

April 30. Having perceived my bread had been low a great while, 
now I took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one biscuit-cake a 
day, which made my heart very heavy. 

May 1. In the morning, looking towards the seaside, the tide 
being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary, 
and it looked like a cask. When I came to it, I found a small barrel, 
and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven 
on shore by tlie late hurricane, and looking towards the wreck itself, 
1 thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do ; 
I examined the barrel which was driven on shore, and soon found it 
was a barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken water, and the powder 
was caked as hard as a stone ; however I rolled it farther on shore 
for the present, and went on upon the sands as near as I could to the 
wreck of the ship to look for more. 

When I came down to the ship I found it strangely removed. 
The forecastle, which lay before buried in sand, was heaved up at 
least six foot, and the stern, which was broke to pieces and parted 
from the rest by the force of the sea, soon after I had left rum- 
maging her, was tossed, as it were, up, and cast on one side, and 
the sand was thrown so high on that side next her stern, that whereas 
there was a great place of water before, so that I could not come 
within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without swimming, I could 
now walk quite up to her when the tide was out ; I was surprised 
with this at first, but soon concluded it must be done by the earthquake, 
and as by this violence the ship was more broken open than formerly, 
so many things came daily on shore, which the sea had loosened, 
and which the winds and water rolled by degrees to the land. 



70 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of removing my 
habitation; and I busied myself mightily that day esx:)ecially, in 
searching whether I could make any way into the ship, but I found 
nothing was to be expected of ’that kind, for that all the inside of the 
ship was choked up with sand : however, as I had learned not to 
despaif’^ of anything, I resolved to pull everything to pieces that I 
could of the ship, concluding, that everything I got from her would 
be of some use or other to me. 

May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam through, 
which I thought held some of the upper part or quarter-deck together, 
and when I had cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well as I 
could from the side which lay highest ; but the tide coming in, I was 
obliged to give over for that time. 

May 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst eat 
of, till I was weary of my sport; when just going to leave off, I 
caught a young dolphin. I had made me a long line of some rope 
yarn, but I had no hooks, yet I frequently caught fish enough, as 
much as I cared to eat ; all which I dried in the sun, and eat them 
dry. 

May 5. Worked on the wreck, cut another beam asunder, and 
brought three great fir planks off from the decks, which I tied 
together, and made swim on shore when the tide of flood came on. 

May 6. Worked on the wreck, got several iron bolts out of her, and 
other i)ieces of ironwork, worked very hard, and came home very 
much tired, and had thoughts of giving it oyer. 

May 7. Went to the wreck again, but with an intent not to work, 
but found the weight of the wreck had broke itself down, the beams 
being cut, that several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose, and the 
inside of the hold lay so open, that I could see into it, but almost 
full of water and sand. 

May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to wrench up 
the deck, which lay now quite clear of the water or sand; I 
wrenched open two planks, and brought them on shore also with the 
tide : I left the iron crow in the wreck for next day. 

May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way into the 
body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened them with 
the crow, but could not break them up ; I felt also the roll of English 
lead, and could stir it, but it was too heavy to remove. 

May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Went every day to the wreck, and got a 
great deal of pieces of timber, and boards, or plank, and two or 
three hundred weight of iron. 

May 15. I carried two hatchets to try if I could not cut a piece 
off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet, and 
driving it with the other ; but as it lay about a foot and a half in the 
water, I could not make any blow to drive the hatchet. 

May 16. It bad blowed hard in the night, and the wreck appeared 
more broken by the force of the water ; but I stayed so long in the 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 71 


woods to get pigeons for food, that the tide prevented me going to the 
wreck that day. 

May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at a 
great distance, near two miles off me, but resolved to see what they 
were, and found it was a piece of the head, but too heavy for me to 
bring away. 

May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the wreck, and with 
liard labour I loosened some things so much with the crow, that the 
first blowing tide several casks floated out, and two of the seamen's 
chests; but the wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to 
land that day but pieces of timber, and a hogsliead which had 
some Brazil pork in it, but the salt water and the sand had 
spoiled it. 

I continued this work every day to the 15th of June, except the 
time necessary to get food, which I always appointed, during this 
part of my employment, to be when the tide was up, that I might be 
ready when it was ebbed out, and by this time I had gotten timber, 
and plank, and ironwork enough to have builded a good boat, if I 
had known how ; and also, 1 got at several times, and in several 
pieces, near 100 weight of the sheet-lead, 

June 16. Going down to the seaside, I found a large tortoise or 
turtle ; this was the first I had seen, which it seems was only my 
misfortune, not any defect of the place, or scarcity ; for had I 
happened to be on the other side of the island, I might have had 
hundreds of them every day, as I found afterwards ; but perhaps 
had paid dear enough for them. 

Aine 17. I spent in cooking the turtle ; I found in her threescore 
eggs ; and her flesh was to me at that time the most savoury and 
pleasant that ever I tasted in my life, having had no flesh, but of 
goats and fowls, since I landed in this horrid place. 

June 18. Kaincd all day, and I stayed within. I thought at this 
time the rain felt cold, and I was something chilly, which I knew 
was not usual in that latitude. 

June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been cold. 

June 20. No rest all night, violent pains in my head, and feverish. 

June 21. Very ill, frighted almost to death with the apprehensions 
of my sad condition, to be sick, and no help : prayed to God for the 
first time since the storm off Hull, but scarcely knew what I said, or 
why ; my thoughts being all confused. 

June 22. A little better, but under dreadful apprehensions of 
sickness. 

June 23. Very bad again, cold and shivering, and then a violent 
headache. 

June 24, Much better. 

June 25. An ague very violent ; the fit held me seven hours, cold 
fit and hot, with faint sweats after it. 

June 26. Better ; and having no victuals to eat, took my gun, but 



72 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


found myself very weak ; liowever I killed a slie-goat, and with much 
difliculty got it homo, and broiled some of it, and eat ; I would fain 
have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot. 

June 27. The ague again so violent, that I lay a-bed all day, and 
neither eat or drank. 1 was ready to perish for thirst, but so weak, 
I liad not strength to stand up, or to get myself any water to drink : 
prayed to God again, but was light-headed, and when 1 was not, I 
was so ignorant that I knew not what to say; only I lay and cried, 
Lord look upon me, Lord pity me, Lord liave mercy upon me : 1 
suppose I did nothing else for two or three hours, till the fit wearing 
off, I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the niglit ; when I 
waked, I found myself much refreshed, but weak, and exceeding 
thirsty : however, as 1 had no water in my whole habitation, I w^as 
forced to lie till morning, and went to sleep again. In tliis second 
sleep, I had this terrible dream. 

I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the outside of my 
wall, where I sat wlieu the storm blew^ after the earthquake, and that 
I saw a man descend from a great black cloud, in a bright flaine of 
lire, and alight upon the ground: lie was all over as briglit as a flame, 
so that I could but just bear to look towards liiiii ; his counicaiance 
was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for words to doscu’ibe ; 
when he stepped upon the ground with his ftu'i, 1 thought the oartli 
trembled, just as it had done before in the ('artliquake, and all the 
air looked, to my apxDrebeusion, as if it had been filled ^Yl^h flashes 
of fire. 

He Avas no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved forward to- 
wards me, with a long spear or Aveapon in liis hand, to kill me ; and 
Avhen he came to a rising gimmd, at some distance, he spoke to rnc, 
or I heard a voice so terrible, that it is impossible to ex])rcss the 
terror of it ; all that T can say T nnderstood avo.s this, ‘ Seeing all 
these things liaA^e not bronght thee to repentance, noAV tliou shait 
die at AAdiich w^ords, I thought he hfted up the spear that was in 
his hand to kill me. 

No one, that sliall ever read this account, Avill expect that I should 
he able to describe the horj-ors of my soul at this terrible vision, 
I mean, that even Avhile it Avas a dream, I even dreamed of tliose 
horrors ; nor is it any more possible to describe the impression 
that remained upon my mind when I aAvaked and found it Avas but a 
dream. 

I had, alas ! no divine knowledge ; what I had received by the good 
instruction of ray father AA^as then Avorn out by an uninterrupted 
series, for eight years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant 
•conversation with nothing but such as were like myself, wicked and 
profane to the last degree : I do not remember that I had in all that 
time one thought that so much as tended either to looking upwards 
towards God, or inAvards towards a reflection upon my own ways ; 
but a certain stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or conscience 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 73 


of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me, and I was all that the most 
hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among our common sailors 
can be supj^osed to be, not having the least sense, either of the fear 
of God in danger, or of thankfulness to God in deliverances. 

In the relating what is already past of my story, this will be the 
more easily believed, when 1 shall add, that through all the variety of 
miseries that had to this day befallen me, I never had so much as one 
tliought of it being the hand of God, or that it was a just puiiislirnent 
for my sin; my rebellious behaviour against my father, or my present 
sins which were great ; or so much as a punishment for the general 
course of my wicked life. When I was on the desperate expedition 
on the (hisert shores of Africa, I never had so much as one thought 
of what would become of me ; or one wish to God to direct mo 

whither I should go, or to keep me from the danger which ap- 

])aveiitly surrounded me, as -well from voracious creatures as 
cruel savages ; but I was merely thoughtless of a God, or a Provi- 
dence ; acted like a mere brute from the principles of nature, 

and by tlie dictates of common sense only, and indeed hardly 

that. 

When I was delivered and taken up at sea by the Portugal captain, 
well used, and dealt justly and honourably with, as well as charitably, 
1 had not the least tliankfulness on my thoughts : when again 1 was 
} ’iij)wrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning on this island, J was 
as far from remorse, or looking on it as a judgment; I only said to 
myself often, tliat I was an unfortunate dog, and born to be always 
mkerable. 

It IS true, when I got on shore fii'st here, and found all m}^ slhp’s 
crew drowned, and myself spared, I was sui’prised wdth a kind of 
ecstasy, and some transports of soul, which, had the grace of God 
assisted, might have come up to true thankfulness ; but it ended 
wh(n’e it begun, in a mere common flight of joy, or, as I may say, 
being glad 1 was alive, without the least rellection upon the dis- 
tinguishing goodness of the hand which had preserved me, and had 
i ingh‘d me out to be preserved, when all the rest were destroyed ; or 
an inquiry why Providence had been thus merciful to me ; even just 
the same common sort of joy which seamen generally have after they 
are got safe ashore from a shipwreck, which they drown all in the 
next bowl of punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over, and all 
the rest of my life was like it. 

Even when I was afterwards, on due consideration, made sensible 
of my condition, how I was cast on this dreadful place, out of the 
reach of human kind, out of all hope of relief, or prospect of redemp- 
tion, as soon as I saw but a prospect of living, and that I should not 
starve and perish for hunger, all the sense of my affliction wore off, 
and I began to be very easy, applied myself to the works proper for 
my preservation and supply, and was far enuogh from being afflicted 
at my condition, as a judgment from heaven, or as the hand of God 



74 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


against me; these were thoughts which very seldom entered into my 
head. 

The gi’owing up of the corn, as is hinted in my journal, had at 
first some little influence upon me, and began to affect me with 
seriousness, as long as I thought it had sometliing miraculous in it ; 
but as soon as ever that part of the thought was removed, all the im- 
pression which was raised from it wore off also, as I have noted 
already. 

Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more terrible in its 
nature, or more immediately directing to the invisible power which 
alone directs such things, yet no sooner was the first fright over, but 
the impression it had made went off also. I had no more sense of 
God or His judgments, much less of the present afiliction of my 
circumstances being from His hand, than if I had been in the most 
prosperous condition of life. 

But now when I began to be sick, and a leisurely view of the 
miseries of death came to place itself before me ; when my spirits 
began to sink under the burden of a strong distemper, and nature 
was exhausted with the violence of the fever ; conscience, that had 
slept so long, began to awake, and I began to reproach myself with 
my past life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness, 
provoked the justice of God to lay me under uncommon strokes, and 
to deal with me in so vindictive a manner. 

These reflections oppressed mo for the second or third day of my 
distemper, and in the violence, as w^ell of the fever as of the 
dreadful reproaches of my conscience, extorted some words from 
me, like praying to God, though I cannot say they were either a 
prayer attended with desires or with hopes ; it was rather the voice 
of mere fright and distress ; my thoughts were confused, the con- 
victions grew upon my mind, and the horror of dying in siicli a 
miserable condition raised vapours into my head with the mere 
apprehensions ; and in these hurries of my soul, I knew not what 
my tongue might express ; hut it was rather exclamation, such as. 
Lord 1 what a miserable creature am I ! If I should be sick, I shall 
certainly die for want of help, and what wdll become of me ? Then 
the tears burst out of my eyes, and I could say no more for a good 
while. 

In this interval, the good advice of my father came to my mind, 
and presently his prediction which I mentioned at the beginning of 
this story, viz., That if I did take this foolish step, God would not 
bless me, and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having 
neglected his counsel, when there might be none to assist in my 
recovery. Now, said I aloud, my dear father’s words are come to 
pass : God’s justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or 
hear me : I rejected the voice of Providence, which had mercifully 
put me in a posture or station of life wherein I might have been 
happy and easy ; but I would neither see it myself, or learn to know 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 75 

the blessing of it from my parents ; I left them to mourn over my 
folly, and now I am left to mourn under the consequences of it ; I 
refused their help and assistance who would have lifted me into the 
world, and would have made everything easy to me, and now I have 
dilliculties to struggle with, too great for even nature itself to support, 
and no assistance, no help, no comfort, no advice ; then I cried out, 
Lord, bo my help, for I am in great distress ! 

This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had made for 
many years. But I retmn to my journal. 

June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had 
had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up ; and thougli the fright 
and terror of my dream was very great, yet I considered, that the 
lit of the ague would return again the next day, and now was my 
time to get something to refresh and support myself when I should 
be ill ; and the first thing I did, I filled a large square case bottle 
with water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed ; and to 
take off the chill or aguish disposition of the water, I put about a 
quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed them together ; and then 
I got me a piece of the goat’s flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but 
could cat very little ; I walked about, but was very weak, and withal 
very sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable condition, 
dreading the return of my distemper the next day ; at night I made 
my supper of three of the turtle’s eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, 
and eat, as we call it, in the shell ; and this was the first bit of moat 
I had fn^cr asked God’s blessing to, even as I could remember, in my 
whole life, 

A^tei* i had eaten, I tried to w’alk, but found myself so weak, that 
I could hardly carry tlie g in (for I never went out without that) ; so I 
went but a little way, and sat down upon the ground, looking out 
upon the sea, which was just before me, and very calm and smooth. 
As I sat here, sojiie such thoughts as these occurred to mo : — 

What is this earth and sea of which I have seen so much, whence 
is it produced, and what am I, and all the other creatures, wild and 
tamo, human and brutal ; whence are we? 

Sure we are all made by some secret power, who formed the earth 
and sea, the air and sky ; and who is that ? 

'•^^hen it followed most naturally. It is God that has made it all. 
Well, but then it came on strangely, if God has made all these 
hmgs, He guides and governs them all, and all things that concern 
them ; for the Power that could make all things, must certainly have 
power to guide and direct them. 

If BO, nothing can happen in the great circuit of His works, either 
His knowledge or appointment. 

And if nothing happens without His knowledge, He knows that I 
®'pd am in this dreadful condition ; and if nothing happens 
^ M a^ppointment, He has appointed all this to befal me. 

-iNotnmg occurred to my thoughts to contradict any of these con- 



76 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


elusions ; and therefore it rested upon me with the greater force, 
that it must needs be, that God had appointed all this to befal me ; 
that I was brought to this miserable circumstance by His direction, 
He having the sole power, not of me only, but of everything that 
happened in the world. Immediately it followed, 

Why has God done this to me ? What have I done to be thus used ? 

My conscience presently checked me in that inquiry, as if I had 
blasphemed, and methougbt it spoke to me like a voice ; Wretch ! 
dost thou ask what thou hast done? Look back upon a dreadful 
misspent life, and ask thyself what thou hast not done ? Ask, why is it 
that thou wert not long ago destroyed ? Why wert thou not drowned 
in Yarmouth Eoads ; killed in the fight when the ship was taken 
by the Sallee man of war ? devoured by the wild beasts on the coast 
of Africa? or, drowned IILEE, when all the crew perished but 
thyself? Dost thou ask. What have 1 done? 

I was struck dumb with these refioctions, as one astonished, and 
had not a word to say, no, not to answer to myself, but rose up 
pensive and sad, walked back to my retreat, and went up over niy 
wall, as if I had been going to bed; but my tlioughts were sadly dis- 
turbed, and I had no inclination to slee]) ; so I sat down in my 
chair, and lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now as the 
apprehension of the return of my distemper terrified me very inuch, 
it occurred to my tliought, that the Brazilians take no physic but 
their tobacco, for almost all distempers ; and I had a piece of a roll 
of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite cured, and some 
also that was green and nob quite cured. 

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt ! for in this chest I found a 
cure, both for soul and body ! I opened the chest, and found what 
I looked for, viz., the tobacco; and as the few books I had saved 
lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before, 
and which, to this time, I had not found leisure, or so much as 
inclination, to look into ; I say I took it out, and brought both that 
and the tobacco with me to the table. 

What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to rny distem- 
per, or whether it was good for it or no ; but I tried several experi- 
ments with it, as if I was resolved it should hit one way or other : 
I first took a piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which 
indeed at first almost stupefied my brain, the tobacco being 
green and strong, and that I had not been used to it ; then 1 
took some and steeped it an hour or two in some rum, and resolved 
to take a dose of it when I lay down ; and lastly, I burnt some 
upon a pan of coals, and held my nose close over the smoke of it as 
long as I could bear it, as well for the heat as the virtue of it, and I 
held almost to suffocation. 

In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible and begifn 
to read, but my head was too much disturbed with the tobacco to 
bear reading, at least that time; only having opened the book 






the life and adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 79 

casually, the first words that occurred to me were these, * Call on Me 
i n the day of t rouble, and I will del iver th e e, an d tho u sff^tT^loriiy 

'Th? words were very apt to my case, and made some impression 
upon my thoughts at the time of reading them, though not so much 
as they did afterwards ; for as for being delivered, the word had no 
sound, as I may say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impos- 
sible in my apprehension of things, that I began to say as the chil- 
dren of Israel did, when they were promised flesh to eat, * Can God 
spi-ead a table in the wilderness ?’ so I began to say, Can God Himself 
deliver me from this place ? and as it was not for many years that 
any hope appeared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts : but 
however, the words made a great impression upon me, and I mused 
upon them very often. It grew now late, and the tobacco had, as I 
said, dosed my head so'^much, that I inclined to sleep ; so I left my 
lamp burning in the ca’^^e, lest I should want anything in the 
night, and went to bed ; but before I lay down, I did what I never 
had done in all my life, I kneeled down and prayed to God to fulfil 
the promise to me, that if I called upon Him in the day of trouble, 
He would deliver me ; after my broken and imperfect prayer was 
over, i drank the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco, whirl i 
was so strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed I could scarce 
get it down ; immediately upon this I went to bed. I found 
])resently it flew up in my head violently, but I fell into a sound 
sleep, and waked no more till by the sun it must necessarily be near 
three o’clock in the afternoon the next day ; nay, to this hour I am 
partly of the opinion, that I slept all the next day and night, and 
till almost three that day after ; for otherwise I knew not how I 
should lose a day out of my reckoning in the days of the’ week, 
as it appeared some years after I had done ; for if I had lost it by 
crossing and recrossing the line, I should have lost more than one 
day: but certainly I lost a day in my account, and never knew 
which way. 

Be that however one way or the other, when I awaked I found my- 
self exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful ; when 
I got up, I was stronger than I was the day before, and my stomach 
better, for I was hungry ; and in short, I had no fit the next day, 
but continued much altered for the better ; this was the 29th. 

The 30th was my well day of course, and I went abroad with my 
gun, but did hot care to travel too far : I killed a sea fowl or two, 
something like a brand goose, and brought them home, but was 
not very forward to eat them: sol ate some more of the turtle’s 
^ggs, which were very good. This evening I renewed the medicine 
■which I had supposed did me good the day before, viz. the tobacco 
steeped in rum, only I did not take so much as before, nor did I 
chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke ; however, 
I was not so well the next day, which was the first of July, as I hoped 



8o THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


I should have been ; for I had a little spice of the cold fit, but it was 
not much. 

July 2. I renewed the mredicine all the three ways, and dosed 
myself with it as at iirst ; and doubled the quantity which I drank. 

July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not recover 
my full strength for some weeks after ; while I was thus gathering 
strength, my tlioughts ran exceedingly upon this scripture, ‘ I will 
deliver thee and the impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon 
rny mind in bar of my ever expecting it ; but as I was discoui aging 
myself witli such thoughts, it occurred to my mind, that I pored so 
much upoji my deliverance from the main affliction, that I disregarded 
the deliverance I had received ; and I was, as it wore, madij to 
ask myself such questions as these, yvA . : Have I not been delivered, 
and wonderfully too, from sickness? from the most distressed con- 
dition that could be, and that was so frightful to me, and what 
notice had I taken of it ? Had T done my ])art? God had delivered 
me, but I had not glorified Him ; that is to say, I had not owned and 
be.m thankful for that as a deliverance, and how could I expect 
greater deliverance ? 

This touched my heart very much, and immediately I kneeled 
down and gave God tlianks aloud, for my recovery from my sickness. 

July 4. In the morning I took the Bible, atid beginning at the 
New Testament, I began seriously to read it, and imposed upon my- 
self to read awhile every morning and every night, not tying myself 
to the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts should en- 
gage me : it was not long after I set seriously to this work, bi^t I 
found my heart more deeply and sincerely affected with the wicked- 
ness of my past life ; the impression of my dream revived, and tlio 
words, All these things have not brought thee to repentance, ran 
seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging of God to give mo 
repentance, when it happened providentially the very day that, read- 
ing the Scripture, I came to these words, * He is exalted a Prince and 
a Saviour, to give repentance, and to give remission.’ I threw down 
the book, and with my heart as well as my hands lifted to heaveii, 
in a kind of ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, Jesus, thou Son of 
David, Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me repentance ! 

This was the first time that I could say, in the true sense of the 
words, that I prayed in all my life ; for now I prayed with a sense 
of my condition, and with a true Scripture view of hope founded on 
the encouragement of the Word of God; and from this time, I may 
say, I began to have hope that God would hear me. 

Now I began to construe the words mentioned above, ‘ Call on Me, 
and I will deliver thee,’ in a different sense from what I had ever 
done before ; for then I had no notion of anything being called de- 
liverance, but my being delivered from the captivity I was in ; for 
though I was indeed at large in the place, yet the island was cer- 
tainly a prison to me, and that in the worst sense in the world ; but 



the life and adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 8t 


now I learned to take it in another sense : now I looked back upon 
my past life with such horror, and my sins appeared so dreadful, 
that my soul sought nothing of God, but deliverance from the load 
of guilt that bore down all my comfort : as for my solitary life it was 
nothing ; I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it ; it was all 
of no consideration in comparison to this. And I add this part here, 
to hint to whoever shall "read it, that whenever they come to a true 
sense of things, they will find deliverance from sin a much greater 
blessing, than deliverance from affliction. 

But leaving this part, I return to my journal. 

My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as to my 
way of living, yet much easier to my mind ; and my thoughts being 
directed, by a constant reading the Scripture, and praying to God, 
to things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of comfort within, 
which till now I knew nothing of ; also, as my health and strength 
returned, I bestirred myself to furnish myself with everything that I 
wanted, and make my way of living as regular as I could. 

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed in walk- 
ing about with my gun in my hand, a little and a little, at a time, as 
a man that was gathering up his strength after a fit of sickness ; for 
it is hardly to be imagined, how low I was, and to what weakness I 
was redtaced. The application which I made use of was perfectly new, 
and perhaps what had never cured an ague before, neither can I 
recommend it to anyone to practise, by this experiment; and though 
it did carry off the fit, yet it rather contributed to weakening mo ; 
for I^had frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some 
time. 

I learnt from it also this in particular, that being abroad in the 
rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my health that could 
be, especially in those rains which came attended with storms and 
hurricanes of wind ; for as the rain which came in the dry season 
was always most accompanied with such storms, so I found that rain 
was much more dangerous than the rain which fell in September and 
October. 

I had been now in this unhappy island above ten months, all 
possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely 
taken from me ; and I firmly believed, that no human shape had ever 
set foot upon that place. Having now secured my habitation, as I 
thought, fully to my mind, I had a great desire to make a more 
perfect discovery of the island, and to see what other productions I 
might find, which I yet knew nothing of. 

It was the 15th of July that I began to take a more particular 
BT^ey of the island itself. I went up the creek first, where, as I 
hinted, I brought my rafts on shore ; I found after I came about two 
miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher, and that it was no 
more than a little brook of running water, and very fresh and good ; 
hut this being the dry season, there was hardly any water in some 

6 



32 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

parts of it, at least, not enough to run in any stream, so as it could 
be perceived. 

On the bank of this brook I found many pleasant savanas, or 
meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass ; and on the rising 
parts of them next to the higher grounds, where the water, as it 
might be supposed, never overflowed, I found a great deal of tobacco, 
green, and growing to a great and very strong stalk ; there were 
divers other plants which I had no notion of, or understanding about, 
and might perhaps have virtues of their own, which I could not find 
out. 

I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians in all that 
climate make their bread of, but I could find none. I saw large 
plants of aloes, but did not then understand them. 1 saw several 
sugar-canes, but wild, and for want of cultivation, imperfect. I con- 
tented myself with these discoveries for tliis time, and came back 
musing with myself what course I might take to know the virtue and 
goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I should discover ; but 
could bring it to no conclusion ; for in short, I had made so little 
ohservation while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the plants 
in the field, at least very little that might serve me to any purpose 
now in my distress. 

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again, and after 
going scmiething farther than I had gone the day before, I found the 
brook, and the savanas began to cease, and the country became 
more woody than before ; in this part I found different fruits, and 
particularly I found melons upon the ground in great abundance-* and 
grapes upon the trees ; the vines had spi^ead indeed over the trees, 
and the clusters of grapes were just now in their prime, very ripe 
and ricli. This was a surprising discovery, and I was exceeding glad 
of them ; but I was warned by my experience to eat sparingly of them 
remembering that when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes 
killed several of our Englishmen who were slaves there, by throwing 
them into fluxes and fevers : but I found an excellent use for these 
grapes, and that was to cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them 
as dried grapes or raisins are kept, which I thought would be, as 
indeed they were, as wholesome as agreeable to eat, when no grapes 
might be to be had. 

1 spent all that evening there, and went not back to my habitation, 
which by the way was the first night, as I might say, I had lain from 
home. In the night I took my first contrivance, and got up into a 
tree, where I slept well, and the next morning proceeded upon my 
discovery, travelling near four miles, as I might judge by the length 
of the valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge of hills on the 
south and north side of me. 

At the end of this march I came to an opening, where the country 
seemed to descend to the west, and a little spring of fresh water, 
which issued out of the side of the hill by me, run the other way, that 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 83 


is dae east ; and the country appeared so fresh, so green, so flourish- 
ing, everything being in a constant verdure, or flourish of spring, that 
it looked like a planted garden. 

I descended a little on the side of that delicious vale, surveying it 
with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with my other afflicting 
thoughts), to think that this was all my own, that I was king and 
lord of all this country indefeasibly, and had a right of possession ; 
and if I could convey it, I might have it in inheritance, as completely 
as any lord of a manor in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa 
trees, orange, and lemon, and citron trees ; but all wild and very few 
bearing any fruit, at least not then. However, the green limes that 
I gathered, wore not only pleasant to cat, but very wholesome ; and 
I mixed their juice afterwards with water which made it very whole- 
some, and very cool, and refreshing. 

I found now I had business enough to gather and carry home ; 
and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of grapes, as limes and 
lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season, which T knew was ap- 
proaching. 

In order to do this, I gathered a great heap of grapes in one place, 
and a lesser heap in another place, and a great parcel of limes and 
lemons in another place ; and taking a few of each with me, I 
travelled homeward, and resolved to come again, and bring a bag or 
sack, or what I could make to carry the rest home. 

Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey, I came 
home (so I must now call my tent and my cave) : but, before I got 
thithgr, the grapes were spoiled, the richness of the fruits, and the 
weight of the juice having broken them, and bruised them, they 
were good for little or no tiling ; as to the limes, they were good, but 
I could bring but a few. 

The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having made me two 
small bags to bring home my harvest : but I was surprised, when 
coming to my heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine when I 
gathered them, I found them all spread about, trod to pieces ; and 
dragged about, some here, some there, and abundance eaten and 
devoured ; by this I concluded, there were some wild creatures there- 
abouts, which had done this ; but what they wore, I knew not. 

However, as I found there was no laying them up on heaps, and 
no carrying them away in a sack, but that one way they would be 
destroyed, and the other way they would be crushed with their own 
weight, I took another course ; for I gathered a large quantity of the 
grapes, and hung them up upon the out branches of the trees, that 
they might cure and dry in the sun ; and as for the limes and lemons, 
I carried as many back as I could well stand under. 

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with great 
pleasure on the fruitfulness of that valley, and the pleasantness of the 
situation, the security from storms on that side the water, and the 
wood, and concluded, that I had pitched upon a place to fix my 

6—2 




84 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

abode, wMcb was by far the worst part of tbe country. Upon the 
whole I began to consider of removing my habitation ; and to look 
out for a place equally safe, as where I now was situate, if possible, 
in that pleasant fruitful part of the island. 

This thought run long in my head, and I was exceeding fond of 
it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempting me ; but 
when I came to a nearer view of it, and to consider that I was now 
by the sea-side, where it was at least possible that something might 
hap]3en to my advantage, and by the same ill fate that brought me 
hither, might bring some other unhappy wretches to the same place; 
and though it was scarce probable that any such thing should ever 
happen, yet to enclose myself among the hills and woods, in the 
centre of the island, was to anticipate my bondage, and to render 
such an affair not only improbable, but impossible ; and that there- 
fore I ought not by any means to remove. 

However, I was so enamoured of this place, that I spent much of 
my time there, for the whole remaining part of the month of July ; 
and though upon second thoughts I resolved as above, not to remove, 
yet I built me a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance 
with a strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as I could reach, 
well staked, and filled between with brushwood ; and here I lay very 
secure, sometimes two or three nights together, always going over it 
with a ladder, as before ; so that I fancied now I had my country 
house, and my sea-coast house : and this work took me up to the 
■beginning of August. 

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy my labour, 
but the rains came on, and made me stick close to my first habita- 
tion ; for though I had made me a tent like the other, with a piece of 
a sail, and spread it very well ; yet I had not the shelter of a hill to 
keei) me from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat into, when 
the rains were extraordinary. 

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished my bower, 
and began to enjoy myself. The third of August, I found the grapes 
I had hung up were perfectly dried, and indeed, were excellent good 
raisins of the sun ; so.l began to take them down from the trees, and 
it was very happy that I did so ; for the rains which followed would 
have spoiled them, and I had lost the best part of my winter food ; 
for I had above two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner had 
I taken them all down, and carried most of them home to my cave, 
but it began to rain, and from hence, which was the fourteenth of 
August, it rained more or less, every day, till the middle of October : 
and sometimes so violently, that I could not stir out of my cave for 
several days. 

In this season I was much surprised with the increase of my 
family ; I had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats, who 
run away from me, or as I thought had been dead, and I heard no 
more tale or tidings of her, till to my astonishment she came 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CROSOE. 85 

home about the end of August with three kittens ; this was the 
more strange to me, because though I had killed a wild cat, as I 
called it, witli rny gun; yet I thought it was a quite differing kind 
from our European cats ; yet the young cats were the same kind of 
house breed like the old one; and both my cats being females, I 
thought it very strange: but from these three cats, I afterwards 
came to be so pestered with cats, that I was forced to kill them like 
vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive them from my house as much as 
possible. 

From the fourteenth of August to the twenty-sixth, incessant rain, 
80 that I could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much 
wet. In this confinement I began to be straitened for food, but 
venturing out twice, I one day killed a goat, and the last day, which 
was the twenty-sixth, found a very large tortoise, which was a treat 
to me, and my food was regulated thus ; I eat a bunch of raisins 
for my breakfast, a piece of the goat’s flesh, or of the turtle for 
my dinner broiled ; for to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to 
boil or stew anything ; and two or three of the turtle’s eggs for 
my supper. 

During this confinement in my cover, by the rain, I worked daily 
two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and by degi*ees worked it 
on towards one side, till I came to the outside of the hill, and made 
a door or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall, and so 1 
came in and out this way ; but I was not perfectly easy at lying so 
open ; for as I had managed myself before, I was in a perfect enclosure, 
whef'eas now I thought I lay exposed, and open for anything to come 
in upon me ; and yet I could not perceive that there was any living 
thing to fear, the biggest creature that I had yet seen upon the island 
being a goat. 

September the thirtieth, I was now come to the unhappy anni- 
versary of my lauding. I cast up the notches on my post, and found 
I had been on shore three hundred and sixty -five days. I kept this 
day as a solemn fast, setting it apart to religious exercise, prostrating 
myself on the ground with the most serious humiliation, confessing 
my sins to God, acknowledging His righteous judgments upon me, and 
praying to Him to have mercy on me, through Jesus Christ ; and 
having not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till the 
going down of the sun, I then eat a biscuit cake, and a bunch of 
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it. 

I had all this time observed no Sabbath-day ; for as at first I had 
no sense of religion upon my mind, I had after some time omitted 
to distinguish the weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary 
lor the Sabbath-day, and so did not really know what any of the days 
were ; but now having cast up the days, as above, I found I had 
been there a year ; so I divided it into weeks, and set apart every 
seventh day for a Sabbath ; though I found at the end of my account 
I had lost a day or two in my reckoning. 




86 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so I contented myself 
to use it more sparingly, and to write down only the most remark- 
able events of my hfe, without continuing a daily memorandum of 
other things. 

The rainy season, and the dry season, began now to appear regular 
to me, and I learnt to divide them so, as to provide for them accord- 
ingly. But I bought all my experience before I had it ; and this I 



(-KUdOE RLAPd lUE IIAIU.EV.— 1‘. 87. 


am going to relate, was one of the most discouraging experiments 
that I made at all : I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears 
of barley and rice, which I had so surprisingly found spring up, as I 
thought, of themselves, and believe there wore about thirty stalks of 
rice, and about twenty of barley ; and now I thought it a proper time 
to sow it after the rains, the sun being in its southern position going 
from me. 

Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground as well as I could with my 







THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 87 


v.'ooclcn spade, and dividing it into two parts, I sowed rny grain; ^ut 
as I was sowing, it casually occurred to my thoughts, that I would 
not sow it all at first, because I did not know when was the proper 
time for it ; so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed, leaving about a 
handful of each. 

It was a great comfort to me afterwards, that I did so, for not one 
grain of that sowed this time came to anything ; for the dry months 
following, the earth having had no rain after the seed was sown, it 
had no moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at all, till 
the wet season had come again, and then it grew as if it had been but 
newly sown. 

Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily imagined was by 
the drought, I sought for a moister piece of ground to make another 
trial in, and I dug up a piece of ground near my new bower, and sowed 
tlie rest of my seed in February, a little before the vernal equinox ; 
and this liaving the rainy months of March and April to water it, 
sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop ; but having 
part of the seed left only, and not daring to sow all that I had, I had 
but a small quantity at last, my whole crop not- amounting to above 
half a peck of each kind. 

.But by this experiment I was made master of my business, and 
knew exactly when the proper season was to sow ; and that I might 
cxj^ect two seed times, and two harvests every year. 

W'hilc this corn was growing, I made a little discovery which was 
of use to me afterwards : as soon as the rains were over, and the 
weather began to settle, which was about the month of November, I 
made a visit up the country to my bower, where though I had not 
been some months, yet 1 found all things just as I left them. The 
circle or double hedge that I had made, was not only firm and entire ; 
but the stakes which I had cut out of some trees that grew there- 
abouts, were all shot out and grown with long branches, as much as 
a willow-tree usually shoots the first year after lopping its head. I 
could not tell what tree to call it, that these stakes were cut from. I 
was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the young trees grow ; 
and I pruned them, and led them up to grow as much alike as I 
could ; and it is scarce credible how beautiful a figure they grew into 
in three years ; so that though the hedge made a circle of about 
twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees, for such I might now 
call them, soon covered it ; and it was a complete shade, sufficient 
to lodge under all the dry season. 

This made mo resolve to cut some more stakes, and make me a 
hedge like this in a semicircle round my wall ; I mean that of^ my 
first dwelling, which I did ; and placing tlie trees or stakes in a 
double row, at about eight yards' distance from my first fence, they 
grew presently, and were at first a fine cover to my habitation, and 
afterwards served for a defence also, as I shall observe in its order. 

I found now, that the seasons of the year might generally be 



88 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe ; but into the 
rainy seasons, and the dry seasons, which were generally thus ; 

Half February, 

March, Kainy, the sun being then on, or near the equinox. 
Half April, 

Hall April, 

May, 

June, [ Hry, the sun being then to the north of the line, 

July, 

Hall August, 

Hall August, ^ 

September, 1-ltainy, the sun being then come back. 

Hall October, ) 

Hall October, 

November, 

December, ^-Dry, the sun being then in the south of the line. 

January, 

Half February, , 

The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter, as the winds 
happened to blow ; but this was the general observation 1 made: after 
I had found by experience, the ill consequence of being abroad in 
the rain, I took care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand, 
that r might not bo obliged to go out ; and I sat within doors as 
much as possible duiing the wet months. 

In this time I found much employment (and very suitable also to 
the time) for I found great occasion of many things which I had no 
way to furnish myself with, but by hard labour and constant appli- 
cation ; particularly, 1 tried many ways to make myself a basket, 
but all the twigs 1 could get for the purpose proved so brittle, that 
tliey would do nothing. It proved of excellent advantage to me 
now, that when 1 was a boy, I used to take great delight in 
standing at a basket-maker’s, in the town where my father lived, 
to see tlieni make their wucker-ware ; and being as boys usually are, 
very oflicious to help, and a great observer of the manner how they 
woiked those things, and sometimes lending a hand, I had by this 
means lull knowledge of the methods of it, that I wanted nothing 
but the materials ; when it came into my mind, that the twigs of 
that tree from wlicnce I cut my stakes that grew, might possibly 
be as tough as the sallows, and willows, and osiers in England, and 
I resolved to try. 

Accordingly, the next day, I went to my country-house, as I called 
it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as 
much as I could desire ; whereupon I came the next time prepared 
with a hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for 
there was great plenty of them ; these I set up to dry within my 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 89 

circle or hedge, and when they were fit for use, I carried them to^ my 
cave, and here during the next season, I employed myself in making, 
as well as I could, a great many baskets, both to carry earth, or to 
carry or lay up anything as I had occasion ; and though I did not 
finish them very handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently service- 
able for my purpose ; and thus afterwards I took care never to be 
without them ; and as my wicker- ware decayed, I made more, 
especially, I made strong deep baskets to place my corn in, instead 
of sacks, when I should come to have any quantity of it. 

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world of time 
about it, I bestirred myself to see if possible how to supply two 
wants : I had no vessels to hold anything that was liquid, except 
two runlets which were almost full of rum, and some glass bottles, 
some of the common size, and others which were case bottles 
square, for the holding of waters, spirits, etc. I had not so much 
as a pot to boil anytliing, except a great kettle, which I saved out 
of the ship, and which was too big for such use as I desired, viz., to 
make broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. The second thing I 
would fain have had was a tobacco-pipe ; but it was impossible to 
me to make one ; however, I found a contrivance for that too at 
last. 

I employed myself in planting my second rows of stakes or piles 
and in this wicker working all the summer, or dry season, when 
another business took me up more time than it could be imagined 
I could s]3are. 

i mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see the whole 
island, and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to where I 
built my bower, and where I had an opening quite to the sea on the 
other side of the island. I now resolved to travel quite across to the 
sea-sho^'e on that side ; so taking my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, 
and a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual, with two 
biscuit cakes, and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch for my 
store, I began my journey ; when I had passed the vale where my 
bower stood as above, I came within view of the sea, to the west, 
and it being a very clear day, 1 fairly descried land, whether an 
island or a continent, I could not tell ; but it lay very high, extend- 
ing from the west, to the W.S.W. at a very great distance ; by my 
guess it could not be less than fifteen or twenty leagues off. 

I could not tell what part of the world this might be, otherwise 
than that I knew it must be part of America, and as I concluded 
by all my observations, must be near the Spanish dominions, and 
perhaps was all inhabited by savages, where if I should have 
landed, I had been in a worse condition than I was now ; and 
therefore I acquiesced in the dispositions of Providence, which I 
began now to own, and to beheve, ordered everything for the best ; 
I say, I quieted my mind with this, and left afflicting myself with 
fruitless wishes of being there. 



90 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I considered, that if 
this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly, one time or 
other, see some vessel pass or re-pass one way or other ; but if not, 
then it was the savage coast between the Spanish country and 
Brazils, which are indeed the worst of savages ; for they are 
cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to murder and devour all 
the human bodies that fall into their hands. 

With these considerations I walked very leisurely forward, I found 
that side of the island where I now was, much pleasanter than 
mine, the open or savana fields sweet, adorned with flowers and 
grass, and full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots, 
and fain I would have caught one, if possible to have kept it to bo 
tame, and taught it to speak to me. I did, after some painstaking, 
catch a young parrot, for I knocked it down with a stick, and having 
recovered it, I brought it home ; but it was some years before I could 
make him speak. However, at last I taught him to call mo by my 
name very familiarly ; but the accident that followed, though it be a 
trifle, will be very diverting in its place. 

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found in the low 
grounds hares, as 1 thought them to be, and foxes, but they differed 
greatly from all the other lands I had met with ; nor could I 
satisfy myself to eat them, though I killed several. ]3ut I had no 
need to bo venturous ; for I had no want of food, and of that which 
was very good too ; especially these three sorts, viz., goats, pigeons, 
and turtle or tortoise ; which, added to my grapes, LcadeJihall 
market could not have furnished a table better than I, in proportion 
to the company ; and though my case was deplorable enough, yet 
I had great cause for thankfulness, and that I was not driven to 
any extremities for food ; but rather plenty, even to dainties. 

1 never travelled in this journey above two miles outright in a day, 
or thereabouts : but I took so many turns and returns, to see what 
discoveries I could make, that I came weary enough to the place 
where I resolved to sit down for all night ; and then I either reposed 
myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row of stakes set upright 
in the ground, either from one tree to another, or so as no wild 
creature could come at me, without waking me. 

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see that I 
had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island ; for here indeed 
the shore was covered with innumerable turtles, whereas on the 
other side I had found but three in a year and half. Here was also 
an infinite number of fowls, of many kinds, some which I had seen, 
and some which I had not seen before, and many of them very 
good meat ; but such as I knew not the names of, except those called 
penguins. 

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very sparing of 
my powder and shot ; and therefore had more mind to kill a she- 
goat, if I could, which I could better feed on ; and though there were 




ROBINSON CRUSOE AX ABUNDANCE OF TURTLES.— P. 90. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 93 

many goats here more than on my side the island, yet it was with 
much more difficulty that I could come near them, the country being 
flat and even, and they saw me much sooner than when I was on 
the hill. 

I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine, 
but yet I had not the least inclination to remove ; for as I was fixed 
in my habitation, it became natural to me, and I seemed all the 
wdiile I was here, to be as it were upon a journey, and from home. 
However, I travelled along the shore of the sea, towards the east, I 
suppose about twelve miles ; and then setting up a great pole upon 
the shore for a mark, I concluded I would go home again ; and that 
the next journey I took should be on the other side of the island, 
oast from my dwelling, and so round till I came to my post again. 
Of which in its place. 

I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking I 
could easily keep all the island so much in my view, that I could not 
miss finding my first dwelling by viewing the country ; but I found 
myself mistaken ; for being come about two or three miles, I found 
myself descended into a very large valley ; but so surrounded with 
hills, and those hills covered with wood, that I could not see which 
was my way by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then, 
unless 1 knew very well the position of the sun at that time of the day. 

It hapj)ened to my farther misfortune, that the weather proved 
hazy for three or four days, while I was in this valley ; and not 
being able to see the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortably, and 
at Jast was obliged to find out the seaside, look for my post, and 
come back the same way I went ; and then by easy journeys I 
turned homeward, the weather being exceeding hot, and my gun, 
ammunition, hatchet, and other things very heavy. 

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized upon it, 
and I running in to take hold of it, caught it and saved it alive from 
the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home if I could ; for I had 
often been musing, whether it might not bo possible to get a kid or 
two, and so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply mo 
when my powder and shot should be all spent. 

I made a collar to this little creature, and with a string which I 
had of some rope-yarn, which 1 always carried about with me, 1 led 
him along, though with some difficulty, till I came to my bower, and 
there I enclosed him, and left him ; for I was very imi^atient to be 
at homo, from whence I had been absent above a month. 

r cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me, to come into my 
old hutch, and lie down in my hammock-bed. This little wandering 
journey, without settled place of abode, had been so unpleasant to 
me, that my own house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settle- 
ment to me, compared to that ; and it rendered everything about 
me so comfortable, that I resolved I would never go a great way 
from it again, while it should be my lot to stay on the island. 



94 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself after my 
long journey ; during which, most of the time was taken up in the 
weighty affair of making a cage for my poll, who began now to be a 
mere domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted with me. Then 
I began to think of the poor kid, which I had penned in within my 
little circle, and resolved to go and fetch it home, or give it some 
food ; accordingly I went, and found it where I left it ; for indeed it 
could not get out, but almost starved for want of food. I wont and 
cut boughs of trees, and branches of such shrubs as I could find, and 
threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it 
away ; but it was so tame with being hungry, that I had no need to 
have tied it ; for it followed me like a dog ; and as I continually fed 
it, the creature became so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it 
became from that time one of my domestics also, and would never 
leave me afterwards. 

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come, and I 
kept the 30th of September in the same solemn manner as before, 
being the anniversary of my landing on the island, haying now 
been there two years, and no more prospect of being didivercd than 
the first day I came there. I spent the whole day in humble and 
thankful acknow^ledgments of the many wonderful mercies which ray 
solitary condition was attended with, and without which it might 
have been infinitely more miserable. I gave humble and hearty 
thanks that God had been pleased to discover to me, even that it 
was possible I might be more happy in this solitary condition, than 
I should have been in a libei'ty of society, and in all the pleasures 
of the world. That He could fully make up to me, the deficiencies 
of my solitary state, and the want of human society, by His presence, 
and the communications of His grace to my soul, supporting, com- 
forting, and encouraging me to depend upon His providence here, 
and hope for His eternal presence hereafter. 

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how mucii ,?lnore happy 
this life I now led was, with all its miserable circumstances, tlian 
the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the past part of my 
days ; and now I changed both my sorrows and my joys ; my very 
desires altered, my affections changed their gusts, and my delights 
were perfectly new, from what they were at my first coming, or in- 
deed for the two years past. 

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or for viewing 
the country ; the anguish of my soul at my condition, would break 
out upon me on a sudden, and my very heart would die within me, 
to think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in ; and 
how I was a prisoner locked up with the eternal bars and bolts of 
the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without redemption. In 
the midst of the greatest composures of my mind, this would break 
out upon me like a storm, and make me wring my hands, and weep 
like a child. Sometimes it would take me in the middle of my work, 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 95 


and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the 
ground for an hour or two together; and this was still worse 
to me ; for if I could burst out into tears, or vent myself by 
words, it would go off, and the grief having exhausted itself 
would abate. 

But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts ; I daily 
read the Word of God, and applied all the comforts of it to my 
present state. One morning being very sad, I opened the Bible 
upon these words, * I will never, never leave thee, nor forsake thee 
immediately it occurred, that these words were to me, why else 
should they be directed in such a manner, just at the moment when 
I was mourning over my condition, as one forsaken of God and 
man? Well then, said I, if God does not forsake me, of what ill 
consequence can it be, or what matters it, though the world should 
all forsake me, seeing on the other hand, if I had all the world, and 
should lose the favour and blessing of God, there would be no com- 
parison in the loss. 

From this moment I began to conclude in my mind, that it was 
possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken solitary condition, 
than it was probable I should ever have been in any other particular 
state in the world ; and with this thought I was going to give thanks 
to God for bringing me to this place. 

I know not what it was, but something shocked my mind at that 
thought, and I durst not speak the words. How canst thou bo such 
a hypocrite (said I, even audibly) to pretend to be thankful for a 
coi^dition, which however thou inayest endeavour to be contented 
witii, thou would ’st rather pray heartily to be delivered from ; so I 
stopped there. But though I could not say, I thanked God for being 
there ; yet I sincerely gave thanks to God for opening my eyes, by 
whatever afflicting providences, to see the former condition of my 
life, and to momiip for my wickedness, and repent. I never opened 
the Bible, or^^^iit it, but my very soul within me blessed God for 
directing my friend in England, without any order of mine, to pack 
it up among my goods ; and for assisting me afterwards to save it 
out of the wreck of the ship. 

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year ; 
and though I have not given the reader the trouble of so particular 
account of my works this year, as the first ; yet in general it may 
be observed, that I was very seldom idle; but having regularly 
divided my time, according to the several daily employments that 
were before me, such as, first, my duty to God, and the reading 
the Scriptures, which I constantly set apart some time for thrice 
every day. Secondly, the going abroad with my gun for food, 
which generally took me up three hours in every morning, when it 
did not rain. Thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking 
what I had killed or caught for my supply ; these took up great 
part of the day : also it is to be considered that the middle of the 



96 THE LIFE AND ADVENTUEES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


day when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of the heat was 
too great to stir out ; so that about four hours in the evening was 
all the time I could be supposed to work in ; with this exception, 
that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and working, and 
went to work in the morning, and abroad with my gun in the 
afternoon. 

To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may be added 
the exceeding laboriousness of my work ; the many hours which 
for want of tools, want of help, and want of skill, everything 1 
did took up out of my time. For example, I was full two-and- 
forty days making me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted 
in my cave ; whereas two sawyers with their tools, and a saw- 
pit, would have cut six of them out of the same tree in half a 
day. 

My case was this, it was to be a large tree, which was to bo cut 
down, because my board was to be a broad one. This tree I was 
three days a cutting down, and two more cutting off the boughs, and 
reducing it to a log, or piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking 
and hewing I reduced both the sides of it into chips, till it begun 
to be light enough to move ; then I turned it, and made one side of 
it smooth, and Hat, as a board from end to end ; then turning that 
side downward, cut the other side, till I brought the plank to be 
about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Anyone may 
judge the labour of my hands in such a piece of work ; but 
labour and patience carried me through that and many other things. 
I only observe this in particular, to show the reason why so much of 
my time went away with so little work, viz., that what might be a 
little to be done with help and tools, was a vast labour, and required 
a prodigious time to do alone, and by hand. 

But notwithstanding this, wdth patience and labour I went through 
many things ; and indeed everything that my circumstances made 
necessary to me to do, as will appear by what follows. 

I was now, in the months of November and December, expecting 
my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had manured or dug up 
for them was not great ; for as I observed, rny seed of each was not 
above the quantity of half a peck ; for I had lost one whole crop by 
sowing in the dry season ; but now my crop promised very well, 
when on a sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all again by 
enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from 
it ; as first, the goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who 
tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as soon 
as it came up, and eat it so close, that it could get no time to shoot 
up into stalk. 

This I saw no remedy for, but by making an enclosure about it 
with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil ; and the more, 
because it required speed. However, as my arable land was but 
small, suited to my crop, I got it totally well fenced, in about thi*ee 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 97 

weeks’ time ; and shooting some of the creatures in the daytime, 
I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying him iip to a stake at the 
gate, where he would stand and bark all night long ; so in a little 
time the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong, 
and well, and began to ripen apace. 

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in the 
blade ; so the birds were as likely to ruin mo now, when it was in 
the ear ; for going along by the place to see how it throve, I saw my 
little crop surrounded with fowls of I know not how many sorts, 
wlio stood as it were watching till I should be gone ; I immediately 
let fly among tliem (for I always had my gun with me). I had no 
sooner shot but there rose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had 
not seen at all, from among the corn itself. 

This touched me sensibly, for 1 foresaw, that in a few days they 
would devour all my hopes, that I should be starved, and never be 
able to raise a crop at all, and what to do I could not tell. How- 
ever, I resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though I should 
watch it night and day. In the first place, I went among it to see 
what damage was ah'eady done, and found they had spoiled a good 
deal of it, but that as it was yet too green for them, the loss was not 
so great, but that the remainder was like to bo a good crop if it 
could be saved. 

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away I could easily 
see the thieves sitting upon all tlio trees about me as if they only 
waited till I was gone away, and the event proved it to be so ; for as 
I walked off as if I was gone, I was no sooner out of their sight, but 
tliey dropt down one by one into the corn again. I was so provoked 
that I could not have patience to stay till more came on, knowing 
that every grain that they eat now, was, as it might be said, a peck- 
loaf to me in the consequence ; but coming up to the hedge, I fired 
again, and killed three of them. This was what I wished for; so I 
took them up, and served them as wo serve notorious thieves in 
England, viz., hanged them in chains fora terror to others ; it is 
impossible to imagine almost, that this should have such an effect, aa 
it had ; for the fowls would not only not come at the corn, but in 
short they forsook all that part of the island, and I could never see 
a bird near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there. 

This I was very glad of, you may be sure, and about the latter end 
of December, which was our second harvest of the year, I reaped my 
crop. 

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut it down, and 
all I could do was to make one as well as I could out of one of the 
broadswords or cutlasses, which I saved among the arms out of the 
ship. However, as my first crop was but small I had no great 
difficulty to cut it down ; in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut 
nothing off but the ears, and carried it away in a groat basket which 
I had made, and so rubbed it out with my hands ; and at the end of 



98 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

all my harvesting, I found that out of my half-peck of seed, I had 
near two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and half of barley, 
that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure at that time. 

However, this was a gi'eat encouragement to me, and I foresaw 
that in time, it would please God to supply me with bread. And yet 
here I was perplexed again, for I neither knew howto grind or make 
meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it or part it ; nor if made 
into meal, how to make bread of it, and if how to make it, yet I 
knew not how to bake it ; these things being added to my desire of 
having a good quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply, I 
resolved not to taste any of this crop but to preserve it all for seed 
against the next season, and in the meantime to employ all my study 
and hours of working to accomplish this great work of providing 
myself with corn and bread. 

It might be truly said that now I worked for my bread ; it is a 
little wonderful, and what I believe few people have thought much 
upon, (viz.) the strange multitude of little things necessary in the 
providing, producing, curing, dressing, making and finishing this one 
article of bread. 

I that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found this to my 
daily discouragement, and was made more and more sensible of it 
every hour, even after I had got the first handful of seed-corn, 
which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a 
surprise. 

First, I had no plough to turn up the earth, no spade or shovel to 
dig it. Well, this I conquered, by making a wooden spade, as I 
observed before ; but this did my work in but a wooden manner,* and 
though it cost me a great many days to make it, yet for want of iron 
it not only wore out the sooner, but made my work the harder, and 
made it be performed much worse. 

However, this I bore with, and was content to work it out with 
patience, and bear with the badness of the performance. When the 
corn was sowed, I had no harrow, but was forced to go over it myself 
and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may 
be called, rather than rake or harrow it. 

When it was growing and grown, I have observed already, how 
many things I wanted, to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it, cure 
and carry it home, thrash, part it from the chaff, and save it. Then 
I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to make 
it into bread, and an oven to bake it ; and yet all those things I did 
without, as shall be observed ; and yet the corn was an inestimable 
comfort and advantage to me too. All this, as I said, made every- 
thing laborious and tedious to me, but that there was no help for ; 
neither was my time so much loss to me, because as I had divided it, 
a certain part of it was every day appointed to these works ; and as 
I resolved to use none of the corn for bread till I had a greater quantity 
by me, I had the next six months to apply myself wholly by labour 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 99 


and invention to furnisk myself with utensils proper for the perform- 
ing all the operations necessary for the making the corn (when I had 
it) fit for my use. 

But first, I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed enough 
to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I had a week's 
work at least to make me a spade, which when it was done was but 
a sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour to 



CRCSOB AND HD) FAMILY. 


work with it ; however, I went througli that, and sowed my seed in 
two largo flat pieces of ground, as near my house as I could find 
them to my mind, and fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes 
of which were all cut of that wood which I had set before, and knew 
it would grow, so that in one year’s time I knew I should have a 
quick or living hedge, that would want but little repair. This work 
was not so little as to take me up less than three months, because 

7—2 


loo THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


great part of that time was of the wet season, when I could not go 
abroad. 

Within doors, that is, when it rained, and I could not go out, I 
found employment on the following occasions; always observing, 
that all the while I was at work I diverted myself with talking to my 
parrot, and teaching him to speak, and I quickly learned him to 
know his own name, and at last to speak it out pretty loud POLL, 
which was the first word I ever heard spoken in the island by any 
mouth but my own. This therefore was not my work, but an assistant 
to my work, for now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my 
hands, as follows, (viz.) I had long studied by some means or other, 
to make myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted sorely, 
but knew not whore to come at them. However, considering the heat 
of the climate, I did not doubt but if I could find out any such clay, 
I might botch up some such pot, as might, being dried in the sun, he 
hard enough, and strong enough to bear handling, and to hold any- 
thing that was dry, and required to be kept so ; and as this was 
necessary in the preparing corn, meal, etc., which was the thing I 
was upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could, and fit only 
to stand like jars to hold what should be put into them. 

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell 
how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste, what odd mis- 
shapen ugly things I made, how many of them fell in, and how many 
fell out, the clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight ; how 
many cracked by the over- violent heat of the sun, being set out too 
hastily ; and how many fell in pieces with only removing, as well 
before as after they were dried ; and in a word, how after having 
laboured hard to find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home 
and work it ; I could not make above two large earthen ugly things, 
I cannot call them jars, in about two months* labour. 

However, as the sun baked these two, very dry and hard, I lifted 
them very gently up, and set them dowm again in two great wicker 
baskets which I had made on purpose for them, that they might not 
break, and as between the pot and the basket there was a little room 
to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and barley straw, and these two 
pots being to stand always dry, I thought would hold my dry corn, 
and perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised. 

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots, yet I 
made several smaller things with better success, such as little round 
pots, flat dishes, pitchers and pipkins, and any things my hand turned 
to, and the heat of the sun baked them strangely hard. 

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an earthen 
pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the fire, which none of these 
could do. It happened after some time, making a pretty large fire 
for cooking my meat, when I went to put it out after I had done with 
it, I found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire, 
burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, loi 


to see it, and said to myself, that certainly they might be made to 
burn whole if they would burn broken. 

This set me to studying how to order my fire, so as to make it 
burn me some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters 
burn in, or of glazing them with lead, though I had some lead to do 
it with ; but I placed three large pipldns, and two or three pots in a 
pile one upon another, and placed my firewood all round it with a 
great heap of embers under them ; I piled the fire with fresh fuel 
round the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside 
red-hot quite through, and observed that they did not crack at all ; 
when I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat about 5 or 
6 hours, till I found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or 
run, for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the 
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass if I had gone on; 
so I slacked my fire gradually till the pots began to abate of the red 
colour, and watching them all night, that I might not lot the fire 
abate too fast, in the morning I had three very good, I will not say 
handsome, pipkins, and two other earthen pots, as hard burnt as 
could be desired ; and one of them perfectly glazed with the running 
of the sand. 

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort of 
earthenware for my use ; but I must needs say, as to the shapes of 
them, they were very indifferent, as anyone may suppose, when I 
had no way of making them ; but as the children make dirt-pies, or 
as a woman would make pies, who never learned to raise paste. 

• No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine, 
when I found I had made an earthen pot that would bear the fire; 
and I had hardly patience to stay till they were cold, before I set 
one upon the fire again, with some water in it, to boil me some 
meat, which it did admirably well ; and with a piece of a kid I 
made some very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal, and several 
other ingredients, requisite to make it so good as I would have had 
it been. 

My next concern was, to get me a stone mortar, to stamp or beat 
some corn in ; for as to the mill, there was no thought at arriving to 
that perfection of art, with one pair of hands. To supply this want 
I was at a great loss ; for of all trades in the world I was as perfectly 
unqualified for a stone-cutter, as for any whatever ; neither had I 
any tools to go about it with. I spent many a day to find out a great 
stone big enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and could 
find none at all ; except what was in the solid rock, and which I had 
no way to dig or cut out ; nor indeed were the rocks in the island^ of 
hardness sufficient, but were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which 
neither would bear the weight of a heavy pestle, or would break the 
com without filling it with sand ; so after a great deal of time lost in 
searching for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out for a 
great block of hard wood, which I found indeed much easier ; and 



102 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


getting one as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed 
it in the outside with iny axe and liatchet, and then with the help of 
fire, and infinite labour, made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in 
Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a great heavy pestle 
or beater, of the wood called the iron-wood, and this I prepared and 
laid by against I had my next crop of corn, when I pro^josed to 
myself, to grind, or rather pound my corn into meal to make my 
bread. 

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or search, to dress my 
meal, and to part it from the bran, and the husk, without which I 
did not see it possible I could have any bread. This was a most 
difficult thing, so much as but to think on; for to bo sure I had 
nothing like the necessary thing to make it ; I mean fine thin canvas, 
or stufi, to search the meal through. And here I was at a full stop 
for many months ; nor did I really know what to do ; linen I had 
none left, but what was mere rags ; I had goat’s hair, but neither 
knew I how to weave it, or spin it ; and had 1 known how, here were 
no tools to work it with ; all the remedy that I found for this, was, 
that at last I did remember I had among the seamen’s clotlies which 
were saved out of t/he ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin ; 
and with some pieces of these, I made three small sieves, but proper 
enough for tbe work ; and thus I made shift for some years ; how I 
did afterwards, I shall show in its place. 

The baking part was the next thingHo be considered, and how I 
should make bread when I came to have corn ; for first I had no 
yeast ; as to that part, as there was no supplying the want, so I dtd 
not concern myself much about it. But for an oven, I was indeed 
in great pain ; at length I found out an experiment for that also, 
which was this : I made some earthen vessels very broad, but not 
deep ; that is to say, about two foot diameter, and not above nine inches 
deep ; these I burnt in the fire, as 1 had done the other, and laid 
them by ; and when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon my 
hearth, which I had paved with some square tiles of my own making, 
iyid burning also ; but I should not call them square. 

When the firewood was burnt pretty much into embers, or live 
coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as to cover it all 
over, and there 1 let them lie, till the hearth was very hot, then 
sweeping away all the embers, I set down niy loaf, or loaves, and 
whelming down the earthen pot upon them, drew the embers all 
round the outside of the pot, to keep in, and add to the heat ; and 
thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my barley 
loaves, and became in little time a mere pastrycook into the bargain; 
for I made myself several cakes of the rice, and puddings. Indeed, 
I made no pies, neither had I anything to put in them, supposing I 
had, except the flesh either of fowls or goats. 

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took me up most 
part of the third year of my abode here ; for it is to be observed, 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 103 

that in the intervals of those things, I had my new Harvest and 
husbandry to manage ; for I reaped my corn in its season, and carried 
it home as well as I could, and laid it up in the ear, in my largo 
baskets, till I had time to rub it out ; for I had no floor to thrash it 
on, or instrum iiit to thrasli it Avith. 

And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really wanted to 
build my barns bigger. I wanted a place to lay it up in ; for the 
increase of the corn now yielded me so much, that I had of the barley 
about twenty bushels, and of the rice as much, or more ; insomuch 
that now I resolved to begin to use it freely ; for my broad had been 
quite gone a great while ; also I resolved to see what quantity would 
be suliicient for me a whole year, and to sow but once a year. 

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice 
were much more than I could consume in a year ; so I resolved to sow 
just the same quantity every year that I sowed the last, in hopes 
that such a quantity would fully provide me with bread, etc. 

All the while these things \vcre doing, you may be sure my thoughts 
run many times upon the prospect of land which 1 had seen from the 
other side of the island, and I was not without secret wishes that I 
were on shore there, fancying the seeing the mainland, and in an 
inhabited country, I might find some way or other to convey myself 
farther, and perhaps at last find some means of escape. 

But all this while 1 made no allowance for the dangers of such a 
condition, and how I might fall into the hands of savages, and 
perjiaps such as I might have reason to think far worse than the 
lions and tigers of Africa. That if I once came into their power, I 
should ru7i a hazard more than a thousand to one of being killed, 
and perhaps of being eaten ; for I had heard that the peo])le of the 
Caribbean coasts were cannibals, or man-eaters ; and I knew by the 
latitude that I could not be far off from that shore ; that, Rux)pose 
they wei’e not cannibals, yet that they might kill me, as many 
Europeans wdio had fallen into their hands had been served, even 
wdien they had been ten or twenty together ; much more 1 that 
was but one, and could make little or no defence. All these things, 
I say, which I ought to have considered well of, and did cast u]^ in 
my thoughts afterwards, yet took up none of my apprehensions at 
first ; but my head run mightily upoji the thought of getting over to 
the shore. 

Eow I wished for my boy Xury, and the long boat, with the 
shoulder of mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand miles 
on the coast of Africa; but this was in vain. Then I thought I would 
go and look at our ship’s boat, which, as I have said, was blown up 
upon the shore, a great way in the storm, when we were first cast 
away. She lay almost where she did at first, but not quite; and was 
turned by the force of the waves and the winds almost bottom 
upward, against a high ridge of beachy rough sand; but no water 
about her as before. 



104 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have launched her 
into the water, the boat would have done well enough, and I might 
have gone back into the Brazils with her easily enough ; but I might 
have foreseen, that I could no more turn her, and set her upright 
upon her bottom, than I could remove the island. However, I went 
to the woods, and cut levers and rollers, and brought them to the 
boat, resolved to try what I could do, suggesting to myself, that if I 
could but turn her down, I might easily repair the damage she had 
received, and she would be a very good boat, and I might go to sea 
in her very easily. 

I spared no pains indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil, and spent, I 
think, three or four weeks about it; at last, finding it impossible to 
heave it up with my little strength, I fell to digging away the sand to 
undermine it, and so to make it fall down, setting pieces of wood to 
thrust and guide it right in the fall. 

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up again, or to 
get under it, much less to move it forward, towards the water ; so I 
was forced to give it over ; and yet, though I gave over the hopes of 
the boat, my desire to venture over the main increased, rather than 
decreased, as the means for it seemed impossible. 

This at length put me upon thinking, whether it was not possible 
to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of those 
climates make, even without tools, or, as I might say, without hands, 
viz., of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought pc^ssible, 
but easy, and pleased myself extremely with the thoughts of making 
it, and with my having much more convenience for it than any of^the 
negroes or Indians ; but not at all considering the particular incon- 
veniences which I lay under, more than the Indians did, viz., want 
of hands to move it, when it was made, into the water, a difficulty 
much harder for me to surmount, than all the consequences of want 
of tools could be to them ; for what was it to mo, that when I had 
chosen a vast tree in the woods, I might with much trouble cut it 
down, if after I might be able with my tools to hew and dub the 
outside into the proper shape of a boat, and burn or cut out the 
inside to make it hollow, so to make a boat of it : if after all this, I 
must leave it just where I found it, and was not able to launch it 
into the water ? 

One would have thought, I could not have had the least reflection 
upon my mind of my circumstances, while I was making this boat ; 
but I should have immediately thought how I should get it into the 
sea ; but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage over the sea 
in it, that I never once considered how I should get it off of the 
land ; and it was really in its own nature more easy for me to guide 
it over forty-five miles of sea, than about forty-five fathom of land, 
where it lay, to set it afloat in the water. 

I went to work upon this boat, the most like a fool, that ever man 
did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself with the 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 105 

design, without determining whether I was ever able to undertake it, 
not but that the difficulty of launcliing my boat came often into my 
head ; but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it, by this foolish 



CiiUSOE MAXvl^U liUAT. 


answer which I gave myself, Let’s first make it, I’ll warrant 1 11 find 
some way or other to get it along, when it is done. 

This was a most preposterous method ; but the eagerness of my 
fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled a cedar tree : I ques- 
tion much whether Solomon ever had such a one for the building of 



io6 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


the temple at Jerusalem. It was five foot ten inches diameter at the 
lower part next the stump, and four foot eleven inches diameter at 
the end of twenty-two foot, after Which it lessened for a while, and 
then parted into branches. It was not without infinite labour that 
I fellel this tree. I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it at 
the bottom, I was fourteen more getting the branches and limbs, and 
the vast spreading head of it, cut off, which I hacked and hewed 
through with axe and hatchet, and inexpressible labour. After this, 
it cost me a mouth to Bhai)e it, and dub it to a proi)ortion, and to 
something like the bottom of a boat, that it miglit swim upright as it 
ought to do. It cost me near three months more to clear tlie inside, 
and work it out so as to make an exact boat of it. This I did 
indeed without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of 
hard labour, till I had brought it to be a very handsome periagua, 
and big enough to have carried six-and-twenty men, and consequently 
big enough to have cari’ied me and all my cargo. 

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely delighted 
with it. The boat was really much bigger than I ever saw a canoe, 
or periagua, that was made of one tree, in my life. Many a weary 
stroke it had cost, you may be sure ; and there remained nothing but 
to get it into the water ; and had I gotten it into the water, I make 
no question but I should have begun the maddest voyage, and the 
most unlikely to be performed, that ever was undertaken. 

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me ; though they 
cost me infinite labour too. It lay about one hundred yards from 
the water, and not more. But the first inconvenience was, it was 
uphill towards the creek ; well, to take away this discouragement, I 
resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so make a declivity. 
This I begun, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains ; but who 
grudge joains, that have their deliverance in view ? But when this 
was worked through, and this difficulty managed, it was still much 
at one ; for I could no more stir the canoe, than I could the other 
boat. 

Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to cut a 
dock, or canal, to biing the water up to the canoe, seeing I could 
not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began this work, 
and when I began to enter into it, and calculate how deep it was to 
be dug, how broad, how the stuff to be thrown out, I found, that by 
the number of hands I had, being none but my own, it must have 
been ten or twelve years before I should have gone through with it ; 
for the shore lay high, so that at the upper end, it must have been at 
least twenty foot deep ; so at length, though with great reluctancy, 
I gave this attempt over also. 

This grieved me heartily, and now I saw, though too late, the 
folly of beginning a w^ork before we count the cost ; and before we 
judge rightly of our own strength to go through with it. 

In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth year in this place, 




the life and adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE, 107 


and kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and with as much 
comfort as ever before ; for by a constant study, and serious applica- 
tion of the Word of God, and by tlie assistance of Ilis grace, I gained 
a difi’erent knowledge from wliat I had before. I entertained dilTcrent 
notions of things. I looked now upon the world as a thing remote, 
wdiich I had nothing to do with, no expectation from, and indeed no 
desires about: in a word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, nor was 
ever like to have ; so I thought it looked as we may perhaps look 
upon it hereafter, viz., as a jdace I had lived in, but was come out of 
it ; and well might 1 say, as father Abraham to Dives, Between me 
and thee is a great gulf fixed. 

In the first place, I was removed from all the wickedness of the 
world here. I had neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, 
or the pride of life. I had nothing to covet ; for I had all that I was 
now capable of enjoying : I was lord of the whole manor ; or if I 
pleased, I might call myself king, or emperor over the whole country 
which I had possession of. Tliere were no rivals : I had no com- 
petitor, none to dispute sovereignty or command with me. I migiit 
liave raised ship-loadings of corn; but I had no use for it ; so I let as 
little grow as 1 thought enough for my occasion. I had tortoise or 
turtles enough ; but now and then one w^as as much as I could put 
to any use, I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships. I had 
grai)es enough to have made wine, or to have cured into raisins, to 
have loaded that fleet when they had been built. 

But all I could make use of was all that was valuable. I had 
enough to cat, and to supply my wants, and what was all the rest to 
me ? If I killed more flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat it, or 
the vermin. If I sowxd more corn than I could eat, it must be spoiled. 
The trees that I cut down Avere lying to rot on the ground ; 1 could 
make no more use of them than for fuel ; and that 1 had no occasion 


for, but to dress my food. 

In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated to me upon 
just reflection, that all the good things of this world are no farther 
good to us, than they are for our use ; and that whatever we may 
heap up indeed to give others, we enjoy just as much as wo can use, 
and no more. The most covetous griping miser in tlie world would 
have been cured of the vice of covetousness, if he had been in my 
case ; for I possessed infinitely more than I knew what to do wi 1 . 
I had no room for desire, except it was of things which i had no , 
and they were but trifles, though indeed of great use to me. ^ , 

as I hinted before, a parcel of money, as well gold as sihci, | 
thirty-six pounds sterling : alas I there the nasty sorry use ess 
lay ; I had no manner of business for it ; and I often 
myself, that I would have given a handful of it for a ^ . 

pipes, or for a hand-mill to grind my corn; nay, I 
it all for sixpenny-worth of turnip and carrot seed out o g > 
for a handful of pease and beans, and a bottle oi ink , > 



io8 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


had not the least advantage by it, or benefit from it ; but there it lay 
in a drawer and grew mouldy wdth the damp of the cave, in the wet 
season ; and if I had had the .drawer full of diamonds, it had been 
the same case ; and they had been of no manner of value to me, be- 
cause of no use. 

I had now brought my state of life to be much easier in itself than 
it was at first, and much easier to my mind, as well as to my body. 
I frequently sat down to my meat with thankfulness, and admired 
the hand of God’s providence, which had thus spread my table in 
the wilderness. I learned to look more upon the bright side of my 
condition, and less upon the dark side ; and to consider what 1 en- 
joyed, rather than what I wanted ; and this gave me sometimes such 
secret comforts, that I cannot express them ; and which I take notice 
of here, to put those discontented people in mind of it, who cannot 
enjoy comfortably what God has given them ; because they see and 
covet something that He has not given them: all our discontents 
about what wo want, appeared to me, to spring from the want of 
thankfulness for what we have. 

Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubtless would be 
so to anyone that should fall into such distress as mine was ; and 
this was, to compare my present condition with what I at first ex- 
pected it should be ; nay, with what it would certainly have been, if 
the good providence of God had not wonderfully ordered the ship to 
be cast up nearer to the shore, where 1 not only could come at her, 
but could bring what I got out of her to the shore, for my relief and 
comfort ; without which, I had wanted for tools to work, weapons 
for defence, or gunpowder and shot for getting my food. 

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing to 
myself in the most lively colours, how I must have acted, if I had 
got nothing out of the ship. How I could not have so much as got 
any food, except fish and turtles ; and that as it was long before I 
found any of them, I must have perished first. That I should have 
lived, if I had not perished, like a mere savage. That if I had killed 
a goat, or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way to flay or open 
them, or part the flesh from the skin, and the bowels, or to cut it 
up ; but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with my claws like 
a beast. 

These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of Provi- 
dence to me, and very thankful for my present condition, with all its 
hardships and misfortunes. And this part also I cannot but recom- 
mend to the reflection of those, who are apt in their misery to say, 
Is any affliction like mine? Let them consider, how much worse 
the cases of some people are, and their case might have been, if 
Providence had thought fit. . 

I had another reflection which assisted me itso to comfort my-mind 
with hopes ; and this was, comparing Uiy present condition with 
what I had deserved, and had therefore reason to expect from the 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 109 

hand of Providence. I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute 
of the knowledge and fear of God. I had been well instructed by 
father and mother; neither had they been wanting to me, in their 
early endeavours, to infuse a religious awe of God into my mind, a 
sense of my duty, and of what the nature and end of my being 
required of me. But alas ! falling early into the seafaring life, which 
of all the lives is the most destitute of the fear of God, though His 
terrors are always before them ; I say, falling early into the seafaring 
life, and into seafaring company, all that little sense of religion whicli 
I had entertained, was laughed out of me by my messmates, by a 
hardened despising of dangers ; and the views of death, which grew 
habitual to me ; by my long absence from all manner of opportunities 
to converse with anything but what was like myself, or to hear any- 
thing that was good, or tended towards it. 

So void was I of everything that was good, or of the least sense of 
what I was, or was to be, that in the greatest deliverances I enjoyed, 
such as my escaj^e from Sallee ; my being taken up by the Portuguese 
master of the ship ; my being planted so well in the Brazils ; my 
receiving the cargo from England, and the like ; I never once had 
the word * Thank God ’ so much as on my mind, or in my mouth ; nor 
in the greatest distress, had I so much as a thought to pray to Him, 
or so much as to say, ^ Lord have mercy upon me no, nor to 
mention the name of God, unless it was to swear by, and blas- 
pheme it. 

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many months, as I 
have already observed, on the account of my wicked and hardened 
life past ; and when I looked about me and considered what pMa’ticular 
providences had attended me since my earning into this place, and 
how God had dealt bountifully with mo ; had not only punished mo 
less than my iniquity had deserved, but had so plentifully provided 
for me ; this gave me great hopes that my repentance was accepted, 
and that God had yet mercy in store for me. 

With these reflections I worked my mind up, not only to resigna- 
tion to the will of God in the present disposition of my circum- 
stances ; but even to a sincere thankfulness for my condition, and 
that I who was yet a living man, ought not to complain, seeing I had 
not the due punishment of my sins ; that I enjoyed so many mercies 
which I had no reason to have expected in that place ; that I ought 
never more to repine at my condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily 
thanks for that daily bread, which nothing but a crowed of wonders 
could have brought. Tliat I ought to consider I had been fed even 
by miracle, even as great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens; nay, by 
a long series of miracles, and that I could hardly have named a place 
in the unhabitable part of the world where I could have been cast 
more to my advantage : a place, where as I had no society, which was 
my affliction on one hand, so I found no ravenous beast, no furious 
'wolves or tigers to threaten my life, no venomous creatures or poison- 



no THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


ous, wliicli I might feed on to my hurt, no savages to murder and 
devour mo. 

In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow, one way, so it was a 
life of mercy, aiiotiior; and I wanted nothing to make it a life of 
comfort, but to be able to make my sense of God’s goodness to me, 
and care over me in this condition, be my daily consolation ; and after 
I did make a just improvement of these tilings, I went aw^ay and was 
no more sad. 

I had now been here so long, that many things wliich I brouglit on 
shore for my help, were either quite gone, or very much wasted and 
near spent. 

My ink, as I observed, liad been gone some time, all but a very 
little, which I eked out with 'water a little and a little, till it was 
so pale it scarce left any appearance of black upon the paper. As 
long as it lasted, I made use of it to minute down the days of the 
month on which any remarkable thing hap]')encd to me, and first by 
casting up times past. I remember that there was a strange concur- 
rence of days in the various providences which befel me ; and which, 
if I had been superstitiously inclined to observe days as fatal or 
fortunate, I might have had reason to have looked upon with a great 
deal of curiosity. 

First I had observed, that the same day that T broke away from 
my father and my friends, and run away to Hull, in order to go to 
sea ; the same day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee man of war, 
and made a slave. 

The same day of the year that I escaped out of the wreck of that 
ship in Yarmouth Eoads, that same day-year afterwards I niaJe my 
escape from Sallee in the boat. 

The same day of the year Iw’^as born on (viz.) the 30th of September, 
that same day, I had my life so miraculously saved 26 years after, 
when I w^as cast on shore in this island, so that my wicked life and 
my solitary life begun both on a day. 

The next thing to my ink’s being wasted, was that of my bread, I 
moan the biscuit which I brought out of the ship, this I had hus- 
banded to the last degree, allowing myself but one cake of bread a 
day for above a year, and yet I was quite without bread for near a 
year before I got any corn of my own, and great reason I had to 
be thankful that I had any at all, the getting it being, as has been 
already observed, next to miraculous. 

My clothes too began to decay mightily : as to linen, I had had 
none a good while, except some chequered shirts which I found in 
the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully preserved, 
because many times I could bear no other clothes on but a shirt ; 
and it was a very great help to me that I had among all the men's 
clothes of the ship almost three dozen of shirts. There were also 
several thick watch coats of the seamen's, which were left indeed, 
but they were too hot to wear ; and though it is true, that the 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, in 

weather was bo violent hot, that there was no need of clothes, yet I 
could not go quite naked ; no, though I had been inclined' to it, 
which I was not, nor could not abide the thoughts of it, though I was 
all alone. 

The reason why I could not go quite naked, was, I could not bear 
the heat of the sun so well when (|uite naked, as with some clothes 
on ; nay, the very heat frequently blistered my skin ; whereas with a 
shirt on, the air itself made some motion and wliistling under 
that shirt, was twofold cooler than without it ; no more could I ever 
bring myself to go out in the heat of the sun wiiliout a cap or hat, 
the heat of the sun beating with such violence as it does in that 
place, would give me the head-ache presently, by darting so directly 
on my liead, without a cap or hat on, so that I could not bear it, 
whereas, if I put on my hat, it would presently go away. 

Upon those views I began to consider about putting the few rags 
I had, which I called clothes, into some order ; 1 hacl worn out all 
the waistcoats I had, and my business was now to try if I could not 
make jackets out of the great watch-coats which I had by me, and 
such other materials as I had, so I set to work a-tailoring, or rather 
indeed a-botching, for I made most piteous work of it. However, 1 
made shift to make two or three new waistcoats, which I hoped 
would serve me a great wdhle ; as for breeches or drawers, I made 
but a sorry shift indeed, till afterwards. 

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all tlio creatures that 1 
killed, I mean four-footed ones, and I had hung them up stretched 
out with sticks in the sun, by which means some of thorn were so 
dry md hard that they were lit for little, but others it seems were 
very useful. The first thing 1 made of these was a great cap for my 
head, with the hair on the outside to shoot ofi the rain ; and this 
I performed so well, that after this I made mo a suit of clothes wholly 
of these skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at the 
knees, and both loose, for they were rather wanting to keep mo cool 
than to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that they 
were wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse 
tailor. However, they were such as I made very good shift with ; 
and when I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of my waist- 
coat and cap being outermost, I was kept very dry. 

After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to make me an 
umbrella; I was indeed in great want of one, and liad a great mind 
to make one ; I had seen them made in the Brazils, where they are 
very useful in the great heats which are there. And I felt the heats 
every jot as great here, and greater too, being nearer the equinox ; 
besides, as I was obliged to be much abroad, it was a most useful 
thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. I took a world of 
pains at it, and was a great while before I could make anything likely 
to hold ; nay, after I thought I had hit the way, 1 spoiled 2 or 3 
before I made one to my mind ; but at last I made one that answered 



1 12 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


indifferently well. The main difficulty I found was to make it to let 
down. I could make it to spread, but if it did not let down too, and 
draw in, it was not portable for me any way but just over my head, 
which would not do. However, at last, as I said, I made one to 
answer, and covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast 
off the rains like a pent-house, and kept off the sun so effectually, 
that I could walk out in the hottest of the weather with greater 
advantage than I could before in the coolest, and when I had no 
need of it, could close it and carry it under my arm. 

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely composed 
by resigning to the will of God, and throwing myself wholly upon the 
disposal of His providence. This made my life better than sociable, 
for when I began to regret the want of conversation, I would ask 
myself whether thus conversing mutually with my own thoughts, and, 
as I hope I may say, with even God Himself by ejaculations, was not 
better than the utmost enjoyment of human society in the world. 

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any extraordinary thing 
happened to me, but I lived on in the same course, in the same 
posture and place, just as before ; the chief things I was employed 
in, besides my yearly labour of planting my barley and rice, and 
curing my raisins, of both which I always kept up just enough to have 
sufficient stock of one year's provisions beforehand. I say, besides 
this yearly labour, and my daily labour of going out with my gun, 
I had one labour to make mo a canoe, which at last I finished. So 
that by digging a canal to it of six foot wide, and four foot deep, I 
brought it into tlie creek, almost half a mile. As for the first, which 
was so vastly big, as I made it without considering beforehand, as I 
ought to do, how I should be able to launch it ; so never being able 
to bring it to the water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged to let 
it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach me to bo wiser next 
time. Indeed, the next time, though 1 could not get a tree proper 
for it, and in a place where I could not get the water to it, at any 
less distance, than as I have said, near half a mile ; yet as I saw it 
was practicable at last, I never gave it over ; and though I was near 
two years about it, yet I never grudged my labour in hopes of having 
a boat to go off to sea at last. ,, 

However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the size of it 
was not at all answerable to the design which I had in view, when I 
made the first ; I mean, of venturing over to the terra firma, where 
it was above forty miles broad ; accordingly, the smallness of my boat 
assisted to put an end to that design, and now I thought no more of 
it. But as 1 had a boat, my next design was to make a tour round 
the island ; for as I had been on the other side, in one place, crossing 
as I have already described it, over the land ; so the discoveries I 
made in that little journey, made me very eager to see other parts of 
the coast ; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but sailing 
round the island. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 115 


For this purpose, that I might do everything with discretion and 
consideration, I fitted up a little mast to my boat, and made a sail 
to it, out of some of the pieces of the ship’s sail, which lay in store ; 
and of which I had a great stock by me. 

Ilaving fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I found she 
would sail very well. Then I made little lockers, or boxes, at either 
end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries and ammunition, etc., 
into, to be kept dry, either, from rain, or the spray of the sea ; and a 
little long hollow place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could 
lay my gun, making a fiaj) to hang down over it to keep it dry. 

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a mast, to stand 
over my head, and keep the heat of the sun off of me like an awning; 
and thus I every now and then took a little voyage upon the 
sea, but never went far out, nor far from the little creek ; but at last 
being eager to view the circumference of my little kingdom, 1 resolved 
upon my tour, and accordingly I victualled my ship for the voyage, 
putting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes 1 should rather call them) 
of barley bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice, a food I ate a 
great deal of, a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder and shot 
for killing more, and two large watch-coats, of those wiiich, as I 
mentioned before, I had saved out of the seamen s chests ; these I 
took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover me in the night. 

It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or my 
captivity, which you please, that I set out 011 this voyage, and J 
found it much longer than I expected ; for though the island itself 
was not very large, yet when 1 came to the east side of it, I found a 
great* ledge of rocks lie out above two leagues into the sea, some 
above water, some under it ; and beyond that, a shoal of sand, lying 
dry naif a league more ; so that I was obliged to go a great way out 
to sea to double the point. 

When first I discovered them, I w^as going to give oyer my enter- 
prise, and come back again, not knowing how far it might oblige me 
to go out to sea; and above all, doubting how I should get back 
again ; so I came to an anchor ; for I had made me a kind of an 
anchor with a piece of a broken grappling, which I got out of the ship. 

Ilaving secured my boat, I took my gun, and went on shore, 
climbing np upon a hill, which seemed to overlook that point, where 
I saw the full extent of it, and resolved to venture. 

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I perceived 
a strong, and indeed, a most furious current, which ran to the east, 
and even came close to the point ; and I took the more notice of it, 
because I saw there might be some danger; that when I came into 
it, I might be carried out to sea by the strength of it, ami not be able 
to make the island again ; and indeed, had I not gotten first up upon 
this hill, I believe it would have been so; for there was the same 
current on the other side the island, only, that it set off at a iarther 
distance; and I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore ; so k 



1 14 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

had nothing to do but to get in out of the first current, and I should 
presently be in an eddy. 

I lay here, however, two days ; because the wind blowing pretty 
fresh at E.S.E. and that being just contrary to the said current, 
made a great breach of the sea upon the point ; so that it was not 
safe for me to keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor to go 
too far off because of the stream. 



CftUSOfc'. ON HIS JOURNEY.— P. 113, 


The third day in the morning, the wind having abated over night, 
the sea was calm, and I ventured ; but I am a warning piece again, 
to all rash and ignorant pilots ; for no sooner was I come to the point, 
when even I was not my boat*s length from the shore, but I found 
myself in a great depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a 
mill. It carried my boat along with it with such violence, that all 
I could do, could not keep her so much as on the edge of it but I 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, uj 

found it hurried me farther and farther out from the eddy, which was 
on my left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, and all 
I could do with my paddlers signified nothing, and now I began to 
give myself over for lost ; for as the current was on both sides the 
island, I knew in a few leagues’ distance they must join again, and 
then I was irrecoverably gone ; nor did I sec any possibility of avoid- 
ing it ; so that I had no prospect before me but of perishing ; not by 
the sea, for that was calmi enough, but of starving for hunger. I had 
indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could lift, 
and had tossed it into the boat ; and I had a great jar of fresh water, 
that is to say, one of my earthen pots ; but what was all this to being 
driven into the vast ocean, where to be sure, there was no shore, no 
main land, or island, for a thousand leagues at least ! 

And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of God to make 
the most miserable condition mankind could be in, worse. Now I 
looked back upon my desolate solitary island, as the most pleasant 
place in the world, and all the happiness my heart could wish for, 
vras to be put there again. I stretched out my hands to it with 
eager wishes. Oh, happy desert, said I, I shall never see thee more. 
Oh, miserable creature, said I, whither am I going? Then I re- 
proached myself with my unthankful temper, and how I had repined 
at my solitary condition; and now what would I give to been shore 
there again. Thus we never see the true state of our condition, till it 
is illustrated to us by its contraries ; nor know how to value what we 
enjoy, but by the want of it. It is scarce possible to imagine the 
consternation I was now in, being driven from my beloved island 
(for so it appeared to me now to be) into the wide ocean, almost two 
leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever recovering it again. How- 
ever, I worked hard, till indeed my strength was almost exhausted, 
and kept my boat as much to the northward, that is, towards the 
side of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could ; when 
about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little 
breeze of wind in my face, springing up from the S.S.E. This 
cheered my heart a little, and especially when in about half an hour 
more, it blew a pretty small gentle gale. By this time I was gotten 
at a frightful distance from the island, and had the least cloud or 
hazy weather intervened, I had been undone another way too ; for I 
had no compass on board, and should never have known how to have 
steered towards the island, if I had but once lost sight of it ; but the 
weather continuing clear, I applied myself to get up my mast again, 
spread my sail, standing away to the north, as much as possible, to 
get out of the current. 

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to stretch 
away, I saw even by the clearness of the water, some alteration of 
the current was near ; for where the current was so strong, the water 
was foul ; but perceiving the water clear, I found the current abate, 
and presently I found to the east, at about half a mile, a breach of 



Ii6 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


the sea upon some rocks ; these rocks I found caused the current to 
part again, and as the main sti:ess of it ran away more southerly, 
leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned by the 
repulse of the rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran back again 
to the north-west, with a very sharp stream. 

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them upon 
the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going to murder them, 
or who have been in such like extremities, may guess what my present 
surprise of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into the stream 
of this eddy, and the wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my 
sail to it, running cheerfully before the wind, and with a strong tide 
or eddy under foot. 

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again directly 
towards the island, but about two leagues more to tlie northward 
than the current which carried me away at first ; so that when I 
came near the island, I found myself open to the northern shore of 
it, that is to say, the other end of the island opposite to that which 
I went out from. 

When I had made something more than a league of way by the 
help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent and served me no 
farther. However, I found that being between the two great 
currents, viz., that on the south side, which had hurried me away 
and that on the north, which lay about a league on the other side ; 
I say between these two, in the wake of the island, I found the 
water at least still and running no way, and having still a breeze of 
wind fair for me, I kept on steering dij cctly for the island, though 
not making such fresh way as I did before. 

About four o’clock in the evening, being then within about a 
league of the island, I found the point of the rocks which occa- 
sioned this disaster, stretching out as is described before to the 
southward, and casting off the current more southwardly, had of 
course made another eddy to the north, and this I found very strong, 
but not directly setting the way my course lay which was due west, 
but almost full north. However, having a fresh gale, I stretched 
across this eddy slanting north-west, and in about an hour came 
within about a mile of the shore, where it being smooth water, I 
soon got to land. 

When I was on shore I fell on my knees and gave God thanks for 
my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance 
by my boat ; and refreshing myself with such things as I had, I 
brought my boat close to the shore in a little cove that I had spied 
under some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with 
the labour and fatigue of the voyage. 

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my boat : 
I had run so much hazard, and knew too much the case to think of 
attempting it by the way I went out, and what migl^t be at the other 
Bide (I mean the west side) I knew not, nor had I any mind to run 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, n; 

any more ventures ; so I only resolved in the morning to make my 
way westward along the shore and to see if there was no creek 
where I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have her again if 
I wanted her ; in about three mile or thereabout coasting the shore, 
I came to a very good inlet or bay about a mils over, which narrowed 
till it came to a very little rivulet or brook, where I found a very 
convenient harbour for my boat, and where^she lay as if she had been 




ii8 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


such a voyage as I had been upon, and I reached my old bower in 
the evening, where I found everything standing as I left it ; for I 
always kept it in good order, being, as I said before, my country 
house. 

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest my 
limbs ; for I was very weary, and fell asleep ; bub judge you, if you 
can, that read my story, what a surprise I must be in, when I was 
waked out of my sleep by a voice calling mo by my name several 
times, Eobin, Kobin, Eohin Crusoe, poor Eobin Crusoe ! whore are 
you, Eobin Crusoe? Where are you? Where have you been? 

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing, or pad- 
dling, as it is called, the first part of the day, and with walking the 
latter part, that I did not wake thoroughly, but dozing between sleep- 
ing and waking, thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me : but 
as the voice continued to repeat Eobin Crusoe, Eobin Crusoe, at last 
I began to wake more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frighted, 
and started up in the utmost consternation : but no sooner were my 
eyes open, but I saw my Poll sitting on tlie top of the hedge ; and 
immediately knew that it was he that spoke to me ; for just in such 
bemoaning language I had used to talk to him, and teach him ; and 
he had learned it so perfectly, that lie would sit upon my finger, and 
lay his bill close to my face, and cry, Poor Eobin Crusoe, where are 
you? Where have you been? IIow come you here? — and such things 
as I had taught him. 

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that indeed 
it could bo nobody else, it was a good while before I could compose 
myself. First, I was amazed how the creature got thither, and then, 
how he should just keep about the place, acd nowhere else. But as 
I was well satisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got it over; 
and holding out my hand, and calling him by his name Poll, the 
sociable creature came to me, and sat upon my thumb, as ho 
used to do, and continued talking to me, Poor Eobin Crusoe, and 
how did I come here ? and where had I been ? just as if he had been 
overjoyed to see me again ; and so I carried him homo along with 
me. 

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had 
enough to do for many days to sit still, and reflect upon the danger 
I had been in. I would have been very glad to have had my boat 
again on my side of the island ; but I knew not how it was practi- 
cable to get it about ; as to the east side of the island, which I had 
gone round, I knew well enough there was no venturing that way ; 
my very heart would shrink, and my very blood run chill but to 
think of it : and as to the other side of the island, I did not know 
how it might be there ; but supposing the current ran with the same 
force against the shore at the east as it passed by it on the other, I 
might run the same risk of being driven down the stream, and carried 
by the island, as I had been before of being carried away from it ; 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 119 


so with these thoughts I contented myself to be witliout any boat, 
though it had been the product of so many months’ labour to make 
it, and of so many more to get it unto the sea. 

In this government of my temper, I remained near a year, lived a 
very sedate retired life, as you may well suppose ; and my thoughts 
being very much composed as to my condition, and fully comforted 
in resigning myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I 
lived really very happily in all things, except that of society. 

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises which 
my necessities put mo upon applying myself to, and I believe could, 
upon occasion, make a very good carpenter, especially considering 
how few tools I had. 

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen- 
ware, and contrived well enough to make them with a wheel, which 
I found infinitely easier and better ; because I made things round 
and shapeable, which before wore filthy things indeed to look on. 
But 1 think I was never more vain of my own performance, or more 
joyful for anything I found out, than for my being able to make a 
tobacco-pipe. And though it was a very ugly clumsy thing, when 
it vsras done, and only burnt red like other earthenware, yet as it was 
hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I \vas exceedingly com- 
forted with it, for I had been always used to smoke, and there were 
pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not knowing that there 
was tobacco in the island ; and afterwards, when I searched the ship 
again, I could not come at any pipos at all. t 1 j t 

Iii my wicker-ware also I improvetl much, and made abundance of 
necessary baskets, as well as my invention showed me ; though not 
very handsome, yet they were such as were vciy handy and conve- 
nient for my laying things up in, or fetching things home m. bor 
example, if I killed a goat uhioad, T could hang it up in a tree, flay 
it, and dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it home m a basket ; 
and the like by a turtle, I could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a 
piece or two of the flesh, which was enough for me, and bring them 
homo in a basket, and leave the rest behind me. 
baskets were ray receivers tor my com, which 1 always rubbed out as 
as it was dry, and cured, and kept it in great baskets 


soon I 


I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably, and tms 
was a want which it was impossible for mo to supp y, an ^ 

seriously to consider what I must do when I shou lav 
powder ; that is to say, how I should do to kill any goa . * 

is observed in the third year of my 

and bred her up tame, and I was in hopes of ^ . . 

could not by any means bring it to pass, at Iasi 

and I could never find it in my heart to kill her, till she died at last 

‘*^Bi^\dng now in the eleventh year of my ima 

have said, my ammunition growing low, I set myse y 



120 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


art to trap and snare the goats, to see whether I could not catch 
some of them alive, and particularly I wanted a she-goat great with 
young. 

To this purpose I made snares to hamper them, and I do believe 
they were more than once taken in them, but my tackle was not 
good, for I had no wire, and I always found them broken, and my 
bait devoured. 

At length I resolved to try a pitfall, so I dug several large pits in 
the earth, in i)laces where I had observed the goats used to feed, and 
over these pits I placed hurdles of my own making, too, with a great 
weight upon them ; and several times I put ears of barley, and dry 
rice, without setting tlie trap, and I could easily perceive that the 
goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for I could see the marks of 
their feet. At length I set three traps in one night, and going the 
next morning I found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and 
gone. This was very discouraging. However, I altered my trap, 
and, not to trouble you with particulars, going one morning to see 
my trap, I found in one of them a largo old he-goat, and in one of 
the other, three kids, a male and two females. 

As to tlie old one, I knew not what to do with him, he was so 
fierce I durst not go into the pit to liim ; that is to say, to go about 
to bring him away alive, which was what I wanted. I could have 
killed him, but tliat was not my business, nor would it answer ray 
eucL So I e’en let him out, and he ran away as if he had been 
frighted out of his wits ; but I had forgot then what I learned after- 
wards, that hunger will tame a lion. If I had lot him stay there 
three or four days wnthout food, and then liave carried him some 
water to drink, and then a little corn, he would have been as tame 
as one of the kids, for they are mighty sagacious tractable creatures 
where they are well used. 

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at that 
time ; then I went to the three kids, and taking them one by one, I 
tied them with strings together, and with some difficulty brought them 
all home. 

It was a good while before they would feed, but throwing them 
some sweet corn, it tempted them and tliey began to be tame ; and 
now I found that if I expected to supply myself with goat’s-flesh when 
I had no pow^der or shot left, breeding some up tame w^as my only 
way, when perhaps I might have them about my house like a flock 
of sheep. 

But then it presently occuri-od to me, that I must keep the tame 
from the wild, or else they would ahvays run wild when they grew 
up, and the only way for this was to have some enclosed piece o 
ground, well fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so 
effectually, that those within might not break out, or those without 
break in. 

Tliis was a great undertaking for one pair of hands, yet as I saw 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 121 

there was an absolute necessity of doing it, my first piece of work 
was to find out a proper piece of ground, viz., where there was likely 
to be herbage for them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to 
keep them from the sun. 

Those who understand such enclosures will think I had very little 
contrivance, when I pitched upon a place very proper for all these, 
being a plain open piec6 of meadow-land or savanna, (as our people 
call it in the western colonies,) which had two or three little rills of 
fresh water in it, and at one end was very woody. I say they will 
smile at my forecast, when I shall tell them I began my enclosing 
of this piece of ground in such a manner, that my hedge or pale 
must have been at least two mile about. Nor was the madness of 


it so great as to the compass, for if it was ton mile about I was like 
to have time enough to do it in. But I did not consider that my 
goats would be as wild in so much compass, as if they had had the 
whole island, and I should have so much room to chase them in, 
that I should never catch them. 

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe about fifty yards, 
when this thouglit occurred to me, so I presently stopped short, and 
for tlie first beginning I resolved to enclose apiece of about 150 yards 
in length, and 100 yards in breadth, which as it would maintain as 
many as I should have in any reasonable time, so as my ilock 
increased, I could add more ground to my enclosure. 

This was acting with some prudence, and 1 went to work with 
courage. I was about three months hedging in tlje first pu'ce, and 
til' T liad done it I tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and 
used them to feed as near me as possible to make thtuii familiar; and 
very often I would go and carry them some ears of barley, or a handful 
of rice, and feed tliem out of my hand ; so that alter my enclosure 
was finished, and 1 let them loc-sc, they would follow me up and 


down, bleating after me for a handful of corn. 

Tliis answered my end, and in about a year and half I had a flock 
of about twelve goats, kids aud all ; and in two years more I had 
thrco-arid-forty, besides several that T took and killed for my food. 
And after that I enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed them 
in, with little pens to drive them into, to take them as I wanted, 
and gates out of one piece of gi'ouiid into another. 

But this was not all, for now I not only had goat s-fiesh ^ feed on 
when I pleased, but milk too, a thing which indeed in my beginning 
1 did not BO much as think of, and which, when it came into my 
thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise, kor now 1 set 
dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. ^ 

nature, who gives supplies of food to every creature, ^ 
naturally how to make use of it ; so I that had never mi ' 

much less a goat, or seen butter or clieese made, ? 

handily, though after a great many essays and miscarn age , 
both butter aud cheese at last, and never wanted it afterwaids. 



122 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


How mercifully can our great Creator treat His creatures, even in 
those conditions in which they seemed to be overwhelmed in de- 
struction ! How can He sweeten the bitterest providences, and give 
us cause to praise Him for dungeons and prisons ! What a table w as 
here spread for me in a wilderness, where I saw nothing at first but 
to perish for hunger ! 

It would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and my littio 
family sit down to dinner ; there was my majesty the prince ai d 
lord of the whole island ; I had the fives of all my subjects at my 
absolute command. I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it 
away, and no rebels among all my subjects ! 

Then to see how like a king I dined too all alone, attended by my 
servants I Poll, as if he had been my favourite, was the only person 
permitted to talk to me. My dog who was now grown very old and 
crazy, and had found no species to multiply his kind upon, sat always 
at my right hand, and two cats, one on one side the table, and one 
on the other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark 
of special favour. 

But these were not the two cate which I brought on shore at first, 
for they were both of them dead, and had been interred near my 
habitation by my own hand ; but one of them having multiplied by 
I know not what kind of creature, these were two which I had pre- 
served tame, whereas the rest ran wild in the woods, and became in- 
deed troublesome to me at last ; for they would often come into my 
house, and plunder me too, till at last I was obliged to shoot them, 
and did kill a groat many ; at length they left me with this attend- 
ance, and in this plentiful manner I lived ; neither could I be said to 
want anything but society, and of that in some time after this, I w'as 
like to have too much. 

I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the use of 
my boat ; though very loth to run any more hazards ; and therefore 
sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her about the island, and at 
other times I sat myself down contented enough without her. But I 
had a strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of the 
island, where, as 1 have said, in my last ramble, I went up the hill 
to see how the shore lay, and how the current set, that I might see 
wkat I had to do : this inclination increased upon me every day, and 
at length I resolved to travel thither by land, and following the edge of 
the shore, I did so. But had any one in England been to meet such 
a man as I was, it must either have frighted them, or raised a great 
deal of laughter ; and as I frequently stood still to look at myself, I 
could not but smile at the notion of my travelling through Yorkshire 
with such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a 
sketch of my figure as follows : 

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat’s-skin, with a 
flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun from me, as to 
shoot the rain off from running into my neck ; nothing being so 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 123 

hurtful iu these climates, as the rain upon the flesh undcu* the 
clothes. 

I had a short jacket of goat’s-skin, the skirts comiug down to about 
the middle of my thighs ; and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the 
same : the breeches were made of the skin of an old he-goat, whoso 
hair hung down such a length on either side, that like pantaloons it 
reached to the middle of 'my legs; stockings and shoes I had none, 
but had made me a pair of somethings, I scarce know what to call 
them, like buskins to flap over my legs, and lace on either side like 
spatterdashes ; but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the 
rest of my clothes. 

I had on a broad belt of goat’s-skin dried, which I drew together 
with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles, and in a kind of a 
frog on either side of this, instead of a sword and a dagger, hung a 
little saw and a hatchet, one on one side, one on the other. I had 
another belt not so broad, and fastened in the same manner, which 
hung over my shoulder ; and at the end of it, under the left arm, 
hung two pouches, both made of goat's-skin too ; in one of which 
hung my powder, in the other my shot. At my back I carried my 
basket, on my shoulder my gun, and over my liead a great clumsy 
ugly goat’s-skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most necessary 
thing I had about me, next to my gun. As for my face, the colour 
of it was really not so mulatto like, as one might expect fi-om a man 
not at all careful of it, and living writhin nineteen degrees of the 
equinox. My beard I had once suffered to grow till it was about a 
quarter of a yard long ; but as I had both scissors and razors suffi- 
cient, I had cut it pretty short, except what grow on my upper lip, 
which I had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such 
as I had seen worn by some Turks, whom I saw at Sallee ; for the 
Moors did not wear such, though tho Turks did; of these moustachios 
or whiskers, I will not say they were long enough to hang my hat 
upon them ; but they were of a length and shape monstrous eiiougli, 
and such as in England would have passed for frightful. 

But all this is by tho bye ; for as to my figure, I had so few to ob- 
serve me, that it was of no manner of consequence ; sol say no more 
to that part. In this kind of figure I went my new journey, and wab 
out five or six days. I travelled first along the sea-shore, directly to 
the place where I first brought my boat to an anchor, to get up u 2 )on 
the rocks ; and having no boat now to take care of, I went over the 
land a nearer way, to the same height that I was upon before, when 
looking forward to the point of the rocks which lay out, and which 1 
was obliged to double with my boat, as is said above, I was sur- 
prised to see the sea all smooth and quiet, no rippling, no motion, no 
current, any more than in other places. t t i 

I was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolved to 
some time in the observing it, to see if nothing from the sets of tho 
tide had occasioned it ; but I was presently convinced how it was. viz. 



124 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


that the tide of ebb setting from the west, and joining with the 
current of waters from some great river on the shore, must be the 
occasion of this current ; and thkt according as the wind blew more 
forcibly from the west, or from the north, this current came nearer, 
or went farther from the shore ; for waiting thereabouts till evening, 
I went up to the rock again, and then the tide of ebb being made, I 
plainly saw the current again as before, only, that it ran farther off, 
being near half a league from the shore ; whereas in my case, it 
set close upon the shore, and hurried me and my canoe along with 
it, which at another time it would not have done. 

This observation convinced me, that I had nothing to do but to 
observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and I might very 
easily bring my boat about the island again ; but when I began to 
think of putting it in practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits at 
the remembrance of the danger I had been in, that I could not think 
of it again with any patience ; but on the contrary, I took up another 
resolution which was more safe, though more laborious ; and this was, 
that I would build, or rather make me another periagua or canoe ; 
and so have one for one side of the island, and one for the other. 

You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two plan- 
tations in the island ; one my little fortification or tent, with the wall 
about it under the rock, with the cave behind me, which by this time 
I had enlarged into several apartments, or caves, one witliiu another. 
One of these, which was the driest, and largest, and had a door out 
beyond my wall or fortification ; that is to say, beyond where my 
wall joined to the rock, was all filled up with the large earthen pots, 
of which I have given an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great 
baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each, where I laid up 
^my stores of provision, especially my corn, some in the ear cut olf 
short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with my hand. 

As for my wall made, as before, with long stakes or piles, those 
piles grew all like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and 
spread so very much, that there was not the least appearance to any 
one’s view of any habitation behind them. 

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the land, 
and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of corn-ground, which I 
kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which duly yielded me their 
harvest in its season ; and whenever I had occasion for more corn, I 
had more land adjoining as fit as that. 

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now a tolerable 
plantation there also ; for first, I had my little bower, as I called it, 
which I kept in repair; that is to say, I kept the hedge which 
circled it in constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder 
standing always in the inside”; I kept the trees which at first were 
no more than my stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall ; I 
kept them always so cut, that they might spread and grow thick and 
wild, and make the more agreeable shade, which they did effectually 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 125 

to my mind. In the middle of this I had my tent always standing, 
being a piece of a sail spread over poles set up fo * that purpose, and 
which never wanted any repair or renewing ; and under tliis I had 
made me a squab or couch, with the skins of the creatures I had 
killed, and with other soft things, and a blanket laid on them, such 
as belonged to our sea-bedding, which I had saved, and a great 
watch-coat to cover me and hero, whenever I had occasion to bo 
absent from my chief seat, I took up my country habitation. 

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle, that is to say, 
my goats. And as I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fence 
and enclose this ground, so I was so uneasy to see it kept entire, lest 
the goats should break through, that I never left off till with infinite 
labour I had stuck the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes, 
and so near to one another, that it was rather a pale than a hedge, 
and there was scarce room to put a hand through between them, 
which afterwards when tliose stakes grew, as they all did in the next 
rainy season, made the enclosure strong like a wall, indeed stronger 
than any wall. 

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and tliat I spared no 
pains to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my comfort- 
able support ; for I considered the keeping up a breed of tame crea- 
tures thus at iny hand, would bo a living magazine of flesh, milk, 
butter and cheese, for me as long as I lived in the place, if it were 
to be forty years ; and that keeping them in my reach, depended 
entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to such a degree, that I 
might be sure of keeping them together; which by tliis method 
indeed I so effectually secured, that when those little stakes began 
to grow, I had planted them so very thick, 1 was forced to pull some 
of them up again. 

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I principally 
depended on for my winter store of raisins ; and which I never 
failed to preserve very carefully, as the best and most agreeable 
dainty of my whole diet ; and indeed they were not agreeable only, 
but physical, wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to the last degree. 

As this was also about halfway between my other habitation, and 
the place where I had laid up my boat, I generally stayed, and lay 
here in my way thither ; for 1 used frequently to visit my boat, and 
I kept all things about or belonging to her in very good order; some- 
times I went out in her to divert myself, but no more hazardous 
voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above a stone’s cast or two from 
the shore, I was so apprehensive of being hurried out of my know- 
ledge again by the currents, or winds, or any other accident. But 
now I come to a new scene of my life. 

It happened one day about noon, going towards my boat, 1 was 
exceedingly surprised with the print of a man’s naked foot on the 
shore, which was very plain to be seen in the sand. I stood like one 
thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition ; I listened, I looked 



126 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


round me, I could hear nothing, nor see anything ; I went up to a 
rising ground to look farther, I went up the shore and down the 
shore, but it was all one, I could see no other impression but that 
one, I went to it again to see if there were any more, and to observe 
if it might not be my fancy ; but there was no room for that, for 
there was exactly the very print of a foot, toes, heel, and every part 
of a foot ; how it came thither, I knew not, nor could in the least 



lllE FOOTPRINT ON lUK bANO.— P. 125 . 


imagine. But after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man per- 
fectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my fortification, 
not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but terrified to the last 
degree, looking behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking 
every bush and tree, and fancying every stump at a distance to be 
a man ; nor is it possible to describe how many various shapes 
affrighted imagination represented things to me in, how many wild 


THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 127 


ideas were found every moment in my fancy, and what strange un- 
accountable whimsies came into my thoughts by the way. 

When 1 came to my castle, for so I think I called it ever after this, 
I fled into it like one pursued ; whether I went over by the ladder as 
first contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock, which I called a 
door, 1 cannot remember ; no, nor could I remember the next morn- 
ing ; for never frighted hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more 
terror of mind than I to this retreat. 

I slept none that night ; the farther I was from the occasion of 
my fright, the greater my apprehensions were ; which is something 
contrary to the nature of such things, and especially to the usual 
practice of all creatures in fear : but I was so embarrassed with my 
own frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed nothing but dismal 
imaginations to myself, even though I was now a great way off of it. 
Sometimes 1 fancied it must be the devil ; and reason joined in with 
me upon this supposition. For how should any other thing in human 
shape come into the place? Where was the vessel that brought 
them ? What marks were there of any other footsteps ? And how 
was it possible a man should come there? But then to think that 
Satan should take human shape upon him in such a place where 
there could be no manner of occasion for it, but to leave the print 
of his foot behind him, and that even for no purpose too, for he 
could not be sure I should see it ; this was an amusement the other 
way ; I considered that the devil miglit have found out abundance 
of other ways to have terrified me than this of the single print of a 
loot. That IB I lived quite on t le other side of the island, he would 
never have been so simxjle to leave a mark in a jilacc where it vras 
ten thousand to one whether I should ever see it or not, and in tho 
sand too, which the first surge of the sea upon a high wind would 
have defaced entirely. All this seemed inconsistent with the thing 
itself, and with all the notions we usually entertain of tho subtlety of 
the devil. 

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of all 
apprehensions of its being the devil ; and I presently concluded then, 
that it must be some more dangerous creature, Viz., that it must bo 
some of the savages of the main land over against me, who had 
wander’d out to sea in their canoes ; and either driven by the currents, 
or by contrary winds, had made the island; and had been on shore, 
but were gone away again to sea, being as loth, perhaps, to have 
stayed in this desolate island, as I would have been to have Lad 
them. 

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very 
thankful in my thoughts, that I was so happy as not to be there- 
abouts at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by which they 
would have concluded that some inhabitants had been in tho place, 
and perhaps have searched farther for me. Then terrible thoughts 
racked my imagination about their having found my boat, and that 



j 28 the life and adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


tlicre were people here ; and that if so, I should certainly have them 
come again in greater numbers, and devour me ; that if it should 
happen so that they should not find me, yet they would find my 
enclosure, destroy all my corn, carry away all my flock of tame goats, 
and I should perish at last for mere want. 

Thus iny fear banished all my religious hope; all that former 
confidence in God which was founded upon such wonderful experi- 
ence as f had had of His goodness, now vanished, as if He that had 
fed me by miracle hitherto, could not preserve by His power the 
provision which He had made for me by His goodness. I reproached 
rn\ stdf with my easiness, that would not sow any more corn one 
year than would just serve me till the next season, as if no accident 
could intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the 
ground ; and this I thought so just a reproof, that I resolved for the 
future to have two or three years’ corn beforehand, so that whatever 
might come, I might not perish for want of broad. 

How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the life of man ! 
and by whai secret differing springs are the affections hurried about 
as differing circumstances present ! To-day we love what to-morrow 
we hate ; to-day we seek what to-morrow w^o shun ; to-day we desire 
what to-morrow we fear ; nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of ; 
this was exemplified in me at this time in the most lively manner 
imaginable : for I, whose only affliction was, that I seemed banished 
from human society, that I was alone, circumscribed by the bound- 
less ocean, cut off from mankind, and condemned to what 1 called 
silent .life ; that I was as one whom Heaven thought not worthy to 
he numbered among the living, or to appear among the rest of His 
creatures ; that to have seen one of rny own species would have 
seemed to me a raising me from death to life, and the greatest 
blessing that Heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing of salvation, 
could bestow ; I say, that I should now tremble at the very appre- 
hensions of seeing a man, and was ready to sink into the ground at 
hut the shadow or silent appearance of a man’s having set his foot 
in the island. 

Such is th(^ uneven state of human life: and it afforded me a great 
many curious speculations afterwards, when I had a littJe recovered 
my first surprise ; I considered that this was the station of life the 
infinitely wise aiid good providence of God had determined for me, 
that as I could not foresee what the ends of divine wisdom might be 
in all this, so 1 was not to dispute His sovereignty, who, as I was 
His creature, had an undoubted right by creation to govern and dis- 
pose of me absolutely as He thought fit ; and who, as I was a creature 
who had offended Him, had likewise a judicial right to condemn me 
to what punishment He thought fit ; and that it was my part to 
submit to bear His indignation, because I had sinned against Him. 

I then reflected that God, who was not only righteous but omni- 
potent, as Ha had thought fit thus to punish and afllict me, so He 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 129 


was able to deliver me ; that if He did not think fit to do it, it was 
my unquestioned duty to resign myself absolutely and entirely to 
His will ; and on the other hand, it was my duty also to hope in 
Him, pray to Him, and quietly to attend the dictates and directions 
of His daily providence. 

These thoughts took mo up many hours, days ; nay, I may say, 
weeks and months ; add one particular effect of my cogitations on 
this occasion, I cannot omit, viz., one morning early, lying in my 
bed, and filled with thought about my danger from the appearance 
of savages, I found it discomposed me very much, upon which those 
words of the Scripture came into my thoughts, * Call upon Me in the 
day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me.* 

Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my heart was not only 
comforted, but I was guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to God 
for deliverance. When I had done praying, I took up my Bible, and 
opening it to read, the first words that presented to me, were, * Wait 
on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and Ho shall strengthen thy 
heart; wait, I say, on the Lord. It is impossible to express the 
comfort this gave me. In answer I thankfully laid down the Book, 
and was no more sad, at least, not on that occasion. 

In the middle of the cogitations, apprehensions and reflections, it 
came into my thought one day, that all this might bo a mere chimera 
of my own ; and that this foot might be the print of my own foot, 
when I came on shore from my boat ; this cheered me up a little 
too, and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion ; that it 
was nothing else but my own foot, and why might not I come that 
way from the boat, as well as I was going that way to the boat ? 
again, I considered also that I could by no means tell for certain 
where I had trod, and where I had not ; and that if at last this was 
only the print of my own foot, I had played the part of those fools, 
who strive to make stories of spectres and apparitions ; and then 
are frighted at them more than anybody else. 

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again ; for I had 
not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights ; so that I 
began to starve for provisions ; for I had little or nothing within 
doors, but some barley cakes and water. Then I knew that my 
goats wanted to be milked too, which usually was my evening diver- 
sion ; and the poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience 
for want of it ; and indeed, it almost spoiled some of them, and 
almost dried up their milk. 

Heartening myself therefore with the belief that this was nothing 
but the print of one of my own feet, and so I might be truly said to 
start at my own shadow, I began to go abroad again, and went to my 
country house, to milk my flock ; but to see with what fear I went 
forward, how often I looked behind me, how I was ready every now 
and then to lay down my basket, and run for my life, it would have 
made anyone have thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, 



130 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

or that I had been lately most terribly frighted, and so indeed 
I had. 

However, as I went down thus two or three days, and having seen 
nothing, I began to be a little bolder ; and to think there was really 
nothing in it, but my own imagination. But I could not persuade 
myself fully of this, till I should go down to the shore again, and see 
this print of a foot, and measure it by my own, and see if there was 
any similitude of fitness, that I might be assured it was my own 
foot. But when I came to the place, firsty it appeared evidently to 
me, that when I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore 
anywhere there about. Secondly y when I came to measure the mark 
with my own foot, I found my foot was not so large by a great deal ; 
both these things filled my head with new imaginations, and gave 
me the vapours again, to the highest degree ; so that I shook with 
cold, like one in an ague. And I went home again, filled with the 
belief that some man or men had been on shore there ; or in short, 
that the island was inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was 
aware ; and what course to take for my security I knew not. 

O what ridiculous resolutions men take, when possessed with fear I 
It deprives them of the use of those means which reason offers for 
their relief. The first thing I proposed to myself, was, to throw 
down my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods, 
that the enemy might not find them ; and then frequent the island 
in prospect of the same, or the like booty. Then to the simple thing 
of digging up my two corn-fields, that they might not find such a 
grain there, and still to be prompted to frequent the island ; then to 
demolish my bower, and tent, that they might not see any vestiges 
of habitation, and be prompted to look farther, in order to find out 
the persons inhabiting. 

These were the subjects of the first night’s cogitation, after I was 
come home again, while the apprehensions which had so overrun my 
mind were fresh upon me, and my head was full of vapours, as above. 
Thus fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than 
danger itself, when apparent to the eyes ; and we find the burden of 
anxiety greater by much, than the evil which we are anxious about ; 
and which was worse than all this, I had not that relief in this trouble 
from the resignation I used to practise, that I hoped to have. I 
looked, I thought, like Saul, who complained not only that the 
Philistines were upon him ; but that God had forsaken him ; for I 
did not now take due ways to compose my mind, by crying to God 
in my distress, and resting upon His providence, as I had done be- 
fore, for my defence and deliverance ; which if I had done, I had, at 
least, been more cheerfully supported under this new surprise, and 
perhaps carried through it with more resolution. 

This confusion of my thouglits kept me waking all night ; but in 
the morning I fell asleep, and having by the amusement of my mind, 
been, as it were, tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 131 


soundly, and waked much V>etter composed than I had ever been be- 
fore; and now I began to think sedately; and upon the utmost 
debate with myself, I concluded, that this island, which was so ex- 
ceedingly pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from the main land than 
as I had seen, w^as not so entirely abandoned as I might imagine : 
that although there were no stated inhabitants who lived on the 
spot, yet that there "might sometimes come boats off from the shore, 
who either with design, or perhaps never but when they wore driven 
by cross winds, might come to this place. 

That I had lived here fifteen years now, and had not met with the 
least shadow or figure of any people yet ; and that if at any time 
they should be driven hero, it was probable they went away again as 
soon as ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix there 
upon any occasion, to this time. 

That the most I could suggest any danger from was, from any 
such casual accidental landing of straggling people from the main, 
who, as it was likely if they were driven hither, were here against 
their wills ; so they made no stay here, but went off again with all 
possible speed, seldom staying one night on shore, lest they should 
not have the help of the tides, and daylight back again ; and that 
therefore I had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat, in 
case I should see any savages land upon tlie spot. 

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so largo, 
as to bring a door through again, which door, as I said, came out 
be3"ond where my fortification joined to the rock ; upon maturely 
considering this tliorefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification, 
ill the same maimer of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just 
where I had planted a double row of trees, about twelve years before, 
of which I made mention : these trees having been planted so thick 
before, they w^anted but a few piles to be driven between them, that 
tlicy should be thicker, and stronger, and my wall would be soon 
finislied. 

So that I had now a double wall, and my outer w^all was thickened 
with pieces of timber, old cables, and everything I could think of, to 
make it strong ; having in it seven little holes, about as big as I 
might put my arm out at. In the inside of this, I thickened my wall 
to above ten foot thick, with continual bringing earth out of my cave, 
and laying it at the foot of the wall, and walking upon it; and 
through the seven holes, I contrived to plant the muskets, of which 
I took notice, that I got seven on shore out of the ship ; these, I 
say, I planted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames that held 
them like a carriage, that so I could fire all the seven guns in two 
minutes’ time. This wall I was many a weary month a finishing, 
and yet never thought myself safe till it was done. 

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for 
a great way every way, as full with stakes or sticks of the osier-like 
wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand ; inso* 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



thing beyond it, much less a habitation. As for the way which I 
proposed to myself to go in and out, for I left no avenue, it was by 
setting two ladders ; one to a part of the rock which was low and 
then broke in, and left room to place another ladder upon that • sc 
when the two ladders were taken down, no man living could come 
down to me without mischieving himself; and if they had come down 
they were still on the oujside of my outer wall. ' 

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for 





THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 133 


my own preservation ; and it will be seen at length, that they were 
not altogether without just reason ; though I foresaw nothing at that 
time, more than my mere fear suggested to me. 

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other 
affairs ; for I had a gi*eat concern upon me, for my little herd of 
goats: they were not only a present supply to me upon every 
occasion, and begarf to be sulhcicnt to me, without the expense of 
powder and shot ; but also without the fatigue of hunting after the 
wild ones, and I was loth to lose the advantage of them, and to have 
all to nurse up over again. 

To this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of but two 
ways to preserve them ; one was to find another convenient place to 
dig a cave under ground, and to drive them into it every night ; and 
the other was to enclose two or three little bits of land, remote from 
one another and as much concealed as I could, where I might keep 
about half a dozen young goats in each place. So that if any dis- 
aster happened to the flock in general, I miglit be able to raise tlieni 
again with little trouble and time. And this, though it would re(piire 
a great deal of time and labour, I thought was the most rational 
design. 

Accoi-dingly I spent some time to find out the most retired parts 
of the island ; and I pitched upon one which was as piivate indeed 
as my heart could wish for ; it was a little damp piece of ground in 
the middle of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed, I 
almost lost myself once before, endeavouring to come back that way 
from the eastern part of the island. Here I found a clear piece of 
land near three acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was almost 
an enclosure by nature, at least it did not want near so much labour 
to make it so, as the other pieces of ground I had worked so 
hard at. 

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, and in less 
than a month’s time, I had so fenced it round, that my flock or herd, 
call it which you please, who were not so wild now as at first they 
might be supposed to be, were well enough secured in it. So 
without any further delay, I removed ten young she-goats and two 
he -goats to this piece ; and when they were there, I continued to 
perfect the fence till 1 had made it as secure as the other, which, 
however, I did at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a 
great deal. 

All this labour I was at the expense of, purely from my apprehen- 
sions on the account of the print of a man’s foot which 1 had seen ; 
for as yet I never saw any human creature come near the island, and 
I had now lived two years under these uneasinesses, which indeed 
made my life much less comfortable than it was before ; as may well 
be imagined by any Avho know' what it is to live in the constant 
snare of the fear of man ; and this I must observe with grief too, that 
the discomposure of my mind had too great impressions also upon 




134 THE LIFE AND ADVtNlURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

the religious part of my thoughts, for the dread and terror of falling 
into the hands of savages and cannibals, lay so upon my spirits, that 
I seldom found myself in a due^ temper for application to my Maker, 
at least not with the sedate calmness and resignation of soul which I 
was wont to do ; I rather prayed to God as under great affliction 
and pressure of mind, surrounded with danger, and in expectation 
every night of being murdered and devoured before morning ; and I 
must testify from my experience, that a temper of peace, thankful- 
ness, love and affection, is much more the proper frame for prayer 
than that of terror and discomposure; and that under the dread 
of mischief impending, a man is no more fit for a comforting per- 
formance of the duty of praying to God, than he is for repentance 
on a sick bed. For these discomposures affect the mind as the 
others do the body ; and the discomposure of the mind must 
necessarily be as great a disability as that of the body, and much 
greater, praying to God being properly an act of the mind, not of the 
body. 

but to go on ; after I had thus secured one part of my little living 
stock, I went about the whole island, searching for another private 
X3lac(3, to make such another dcjjosit ; when wandering more to the 
west point of the island than 1 had ever done yet, and looking out 
to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great distance ; I 
had found a perspective-glass, or two, in one of the seamen's chests, 
which I saved out of our ship ; but I had it not about me, and this 
was so remote, that I could not tell what to make of it ; though I 
looked at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any longer ; 
whether it was a boat, or not, I do not know ; but as I descended 
from the hill I could see no more of it, so I gave it over ; only 
I resolved to go no more out without a perspective-glass in my 
pocket. 

When I was come down the hill, to the end of the island, where 
indeed I had never been before, I was presently convinced that the 
print of a man’s foot was not such a strange thing in the island as I 
imagined ; and but that it was a special providence that I was cast 
upon the side of the island, where the savages never came. I should 
easily have known, that nothing was more frequent than for the 
canoes from the main, when they happened to be a little too far out 
at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for harbour ; likewise 
as they often met, and fought in their canoes, the victors having 
taken any prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where 
according to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would 
kill and eat them ; of which hereafter. 

When I was come down the hill, to the shore, as I said above, 
being the S.W. point of the island, I was perfectly confounded and 
amazed ; nor is it possible for me to express the horror of my mind, 
at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones 
of human bodies ; and particularly I observed a place where there 






THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 137 


had been a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth, like a cockpit, 
where it is supposed the savage wretches had sat down to their 
inhuman f eastings upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures. 

I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I enter- 
tained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while ; 
all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of 
inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of 
human nature ; which though I had heard of often, yet 1 never Jiad 
so near a view of before ; in short, I turned away my face from tlie 
horrid spectacle ; my stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point 
of fainting, so I gat me up the hill again, with all the speed I could, 
and walked on towards my own habitation. 

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still 
awhile as amazed ; and then recovering myself, I looked up with 
tlie utmost affection of my soul, and with a flood of tears in my eyes, 
gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part of the world, 
where I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures as tliese ; 
and that though I had esteemed my present condition very miserable, 
had yet given me so many comforts in it, that I had still more to 
give thanks for than to complain of; and this above all, that 1 liad 
even in this miserable condition been comforted with the knowdedgc 
of Himself, and the hope of His blessing, which was a felicity inoi'e 
than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which I had suffered, or 
could suffer. 

In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to my castle, and 
began to bo much easier now, as to the safety of my circumstances, 
than ever I was before ; for 1 observed that these wretches never 
came to this island in search of what they could get ; perhaps not 
seeking, not vranting, or not expecting anything hero; and having 
often, no doubt, been up in the covered woody part of it, without 
1 lading anything to their purpose. I knew 1 had been here now 
almost eighteen years, and never saw the least footsteps of human 
creature there before ; and I might be here eighteen more, as entirely 
concealed as I was now, if I did not discover myself to them, which 
T had no manner of occasion to do, it being my only business to keep 
myself entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a better sort 
of creatures than cannibals to make myself known to. 

Yet 1 entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches that 
1 have been speaking of, and of the wretched inhuman custom of 
their devouring and eating one another up, that 1 continued pensive, 
and sad, and kept close within my own circle for almost two years 
after this.^ When I say my own circle, I mean by it, my three plan- 
tations, viz., my castle, my country seat, which i called my bower, 
and my enclosure in the woods ; nor did I look after this for any 
other use than as an enclosure for my goats ; nor did I so much as 
go to look after my boat, in all this time ; but began rather to think 
of making me another ; for I could not think of ever making any 



138 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

i.iore attempts to bring the other boat round the island to me, lest 
I should meet with some of these creatures at sea, in which, if I had 
happened to have fallen intp their hands, I knew what would have 
been my lot. 

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had, that I was in no danger 
of being discovered by these people, began to wear off my uneasiness 
about them ; and I began to live just in the same composed manner 
as before ; only with this difference, that I used more caution, and 
kept niy eyes more about me than I did before, lest I should happen 
to be seen by any of them ; and particularly I was more cautious of 
firing my gun, lest any of them being on the island, should happen 
to hear of it ; and it was therefore a very good providence to me, that 
I had furnished myself with a tame breed of goats, that I needed 
not hunt any more about the woods, or shoot at them ; and if I did 
catcli any of them after this, it was by traps and snares, as I had 
done before ; so that for two years after this, I believe I never fired 
my gun once off, though I never went out without it ; and which was 
more, as I had saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried 
tliciu out with me, or at least two of them, sticking them in my 
goat-skin belt ; also I furbished up one of the great cutlasses, that I 
had out of the ship, and made me a belt to put it on also ; so that 
I was now a most formidable fellow to look at, when I went abroad, 
if you add to the former description of myself, the particular of two 
pistols, and a great broad sword, hanging at my side in a belt, 
but without a scabbard. 

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I seemed, 
excepting these cautions, to bo reduced to my former calm, sedate 
way of living ; all these things tended to showing me more and more 
how far my condition was from being miserable, compared to some 
others ; nay, to many other particulars of life, which it might have 
pleased God to have made my lot. It put me upon reflecting, how 
little repining thei’e would be among mankind, at any condition of 
life, if people would ratlier compare their condition with those that 
are worse, in order to be thankful, than bo always comparing them 
with those which are better, to assist their murmurings and 
complainings. 

As in my piesent condition there were not really many thing£ 
which I wanted ; so indeed I thought that the frights I had been ir 
about these savage wretches, and the concern I had been in for niy 
own preservation, had taken off the edge of my invention for my owr 
conveniences, and I had dropped a good design, which I had once 
bent my thoughts too much upon ; and that was, to try if I conic 
not make some of my barley into malt, and then try to brew mysel 
some beer. This was really a whimsical thought, and I reprovec 
myself often for the simplicity of it ; for I presently saw there woulc 
be the want of several things necessary to the making my beer, tha' 
it would be impossible for me to supply : as first, casks to preserve 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 139 


it in, which was a thing that, as I have observed already, I couid 
never compass ; no, though I spent not many days, but weeks, nay, 
months in attempting it, but to no purpose. In the next place, 1 
had no hops to make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or 
kettle to make it boil ; and yet all these things notwitlistanding, I 
verily believe, had not these things intervened, I mean the frights 
and terrors I was in about the savages, I had undertaken it, and 
perhaps brouglit it to pass too ; for I seldom gave anything over 
without accomplishing it, when I once had it in my head enough to 
begin it. 

But my invention now run quite another way; for night and day 
I could think of nothing but how I might destroy some of these 
monsters in their cruel bloody entertainment, and if possible, save 
the victim they should bring hither to destroy, it would take up a 
larger volume than this whole work is intended to be, to set down 
all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded u} ion in my thought, 
for the destroying these creatures, or at least frightening them, so as 
to prevent their corning hither any more ; but all was abortive, nothing 
could be possible to take effect, unless I was to bo there to do it 
myself ; and what could one man do among them, when perhaps there 
might be twenty or thirty of them together, with their darts, or their 
bows and arrows, with which they could shoot as true to a mark, as 
I could with my gun? 

Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under tlie place where they 
made tlicir fire, and put in five or six pound of guiqrowder, whicli 
when they kindled their fire, would consequently take fire, and blow 
up all that was near it ; but as in the first place f should be very loth 
to waste so much powder upon them, my store being now within tlie 
quantity of one barrel, so neither could 1 be sure of its going off 
at any certain time, when it might surprise them, and at best, that 
it would do little more than just blow the fire about their ears and 
fright them, but not sufficient to make them forsake the j)lace ; so I 
laid it aside, and then proposed that I would place myself in ambush, 
in some convenient place, with my three guns, all double loaded ; 
and in the middle of their bloody ceremony, let fly at them, when I 
should be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or three at every shoot ; 
and then falling in upon them with my three pistols, and my sword, 
I made no doubt, but that if there W'as tw^enty I should kill them all. 
This fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so full 
of it, that I often dreamed of it ; and sometimes that I was just goii g 
to let fly at them in my sleep. 

1 went so far with it in my imagination, that I employed myself 
several days to find out proper places to put myself in ambuscatle, 
as I said, to watch for them; and I went frequently to the phu.e 
itself, which was now grown more familiar to me; and especially whiie 
my mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and of a bloody 
putting twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as I may call it ; the 




140 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

horror I had at the place, and at the signals of the barbarous 
wretches devouring one another, abated my malice. 

Well, at length I found a place in the side of the hill, where I was 
satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any of their boats coming, 
and might then, even before they would be ready to come on shore, 
convey myself unseen into thickets of trees, in one of which there 
was a hollow large enough to conceal me entirely ; and where I 
might sit and observe all their bloody doings, and take my full aim 
at their heads, when they were so close together, as that it would 
be next to impossible that I should miss rny shoot, or that I could 
fail wounding three or four of them at the first shoot. 

In this place then I resolved to fix my design, and accordingly I 
prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowling-piece. The two 
muskets I loaded with a brace of slugs each, and four or five smaller 
bullets, about the size of pistol bullets; and the fowling-piece I 
loaded with near a handful of swan-shot, of the largest size ; I also 
loaded my pistols with about four bullets each, and in this posture, 
well provided with ammunition for a second and third charge, I 
prepared myself for my expedition. 

After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and in my 
imagination put it in practice, I continually made my tour every 
morning up to the top of the hill, which was from my castle, as I 
called it, about three miles, or more, to see if I could observe any 
boats upon the sea, coming near the island, or standing over towards 
it ; but I began to tire of this hard duty, after I had for two or three 
months constantly kept my watch ; but came always back without 
any discovery, there having not in all that time been the least appear- 
ance, not only on or near the shore, but not on the whole ocean, so 
far as my eyes or glasses could reach every vray. 

As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill, to look out, so long 
also I kept up the vigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be 
all the while in a suitable form, for so outrageous an execution as 
the killing twenty or thirty naked savages, for an offence which I had 
not at all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any farther 
than my passions were at first fired by the horror I conceived at the 
unnatural custom of the people of that country, who it seems had 
been suffered by Providence in His wise disposition of the world, to 
have no other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiated 
passions ; and consequently were left, and perhaps had been so for 
some ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such dreadful 
customs, as nothing but nature entirely abandoned of Heaven, and 
acted by some hellish degeneracy, could have run them into. ' But 
now when, as I have said, I began to be weary of the fruitless ex- 
cursion, which I had made so long, and so far, every morning in vain, 
so my opinion of the action itself began to alter, and I began with 
cooler and calmer thoughts to consider what it was I was going to 
engage in. What authority, or call I had, to pretend to be judge 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 141 


and executioner upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had 
thought lit for so many ages to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to 
be, as it were, the executioner of His judgments one upon another ; how 
far these people were offenders against me, and what right I had to 
engage in the quarrel of that blood, which they shed promiscuously 
one upon another. I debated this very often with myself thus : How 
do I know what God Himself judges in this particular case ? it is 
certain these people either do not commit this as a crime ; it is not 
against their own consciences reproving, or their light reproaching 
them. They do not know it to be an offence, and then commit it in 
defiance of divine justice, as we do in almost all the sins we commit. 
They think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken in war, than 
we do to kill an ox ; nor to eat human flesh, than we do to eat 
mutton. 

When I had considered this a little, it followed necessarily that I 
was certainly in the wrong in it, that these people were not murderers, 
in the sense that I had before condemned them, in my thoughts ; any 
more than those Christians were murderers, who often put to death 
the prisoners taken in battle ; or more frequently, upon many occa- 
sions, put whole troops of men to the sword, without giving quarter, 
though they threw down their arms and submitted. 

In the next place it occurred to me, that albeit the usage they thus 
gave one another was thus brutish and iiiliuman, yet it was really 
nothing to me : these people had done me no injury. That if they 
attempted me, or I saw it necessary for my immediate preservation to 
fall upon them, something might be said for it ; but that as 1 was yet 
out of their power, and they had really no knowledge of me, and 
consequently no design upon me ; and therefore it could not be just 
for me to fall upon them. That this would justify the conduct of the 
Spaniards in all their barbarities practised in America, and where 
they destroyed millions of these people, who however they were 
idolaters and barbarians, and had several bloody and barbarous 
rites in their customs, such as sacrificing human bodies to their idols, 
were yet, as to the Spaniards, very innocent people ; and that the 
rooting them out of the country is spoken of with the utmost ab- 
horrence and detestation by even the Spaniards themselves, at this 
time ; and by all other Christian nations of Europe, as a mere 
butchery, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable 
either to God or man ; and such as for which the very name of a 
Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and terrible to all people of 
humanity, or of Christian compassion : as if the kingdom of Spain 
were particularly eminent for the product of a race of men who 
were without principles of tenderness, or the common bowels of pity 
to the miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark of generous temper 
in the mind. 

These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a kind of a 
full-stop ; and I began little by little to be off of my designs, and 



142 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

to conclude I bad taken wrong measures in my resolutions to attack 
the savages ; that it was not my business to meddle with them, un- 
less they first attacked me, and this it was my business if possible to 
prevent ; but that if I were discovered, and attacked, then I knew my 
duty. 

On the other hand, I argued with myself, that this really was the way 
not to deliver myself, but entirely to ruin and destroy myself ; for un- 
less 1 was sure to kill every one that not only should be on shore at 
that time, but that should ever come on shore afterwards, if but one 
of them escaped to tell their country people what had happened, they 
would come over again by thousands to revenge the death of their 
follows, and I should only bring upon myself a certain destruction 
which at present I had no manner of occasion for. 

Upon the whole I concluded, that neither in principles nor in 
policy, I ought one way or other to concern myself in this affair. 
That my business was by all possible means to conceal myself from 
them, and not to leave the least signal to them to guess by, that 
there were any living creatures upon the island ; I mean of human 
shape. 

Keligion joined in with tliis prudential, and I was convinced now 
many ways, that I was perfectly out of my duty when I was laying 
all my bloody schemes for the destruction of innocent creatures, I 
meati innocent as to me. As to the crimes they were guilty of to- 
wards one another, I had nothing to do will them ; they were 
national, and I ought to leave them to the justice of God, who is the 
governor of nations, and knows how by national punishments fco 
make just retribution for national offences ; and to bring public 
judgments upon those who offend in a public manner, by such ways 
as best pleases Him, 

This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was a greater 
satisfaction to me, than that I had not been suffered to do a thing 
which I now saw so much reason to believe would have been no 
less a sin than that of wilful murder, if I had committed it ; and I 
gave most humble thanks on my knees to God, that had thus de- 
livered me from blood-guiltiness; beseeching Him to grant me the 
protection of His provi&nce, that I might not fall into the hands 
of the barbarians ; or that I might not lay my hands upon them, 
unless I had a more clear call from Heaven to do it, in defence of my 
own life. 

In this disposition I continued, for near a year after this ; and so 
far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon these wretches, 
that in all that time I never once went up the hill to see whether 
there were any of them in sight, or to know whether any of them 
had been on shore there, or not, that I might not be tempted to re- 
new any of my contrivances against them, or be provoked by any 
advantage which might present itself, to fall upon them ; only this I 
did, I went and^removed my boat, which I had on the other side 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 143 


the island, and carried it down to the east end of the whole island, 
where I ran it into a little cove which I found under some high rocks, 
and where I knew, by reason of currents, the savages durst not, 
at least would not come with their boats, upon any account whatso- 
ever. 

With my boat I carried away everything that I had left there be- 
longing to her, though not necessary for the bare going thither, viz., 
a mast and sail which I had made for her, and a thing like an 
anchor, but indeed which could not be called either anchor or grap- 
pling ; however, it was the best I could make of its kind ; all these 
I removed, that there might not be the least shadow of any discovery, 
or any appearance of any boat, or of any human habitation upon the 
island. 

Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than ever, and 
seldom went from my cell, other than upon my constant employ- 
ment, viz., to milk my shc-goats, and manage my little flock, in the 
wood ; which as it was quite on another part of the island, was quite 
out of danger : for certain it is, that these savage ];)eople who some- 
times haunted tliis island, never came with any thoughts of finding 
anything here ; and consequently never wandered off from the 
coast ; and I doubt not but they might have been several times on 
the shore, after my apprehensions of them had made me cautious as 
well as before ; and indeed, I looked back witli some horror upon 
tlie thoughts of what my condition would have been, if I had 
chopped upon them, and been discovered before that, when naked 
and unarmed, except with one gun, and that loaded often only with 
small shot, I walked everywhere peeping, and peeping about the 
island, to see what I could get ; what a surprise should I have been 
in, if when I discovered the print of a man's foot, I had instead of 
that, seen fifteen or twenty savages, and found them pursuing me, 
and by the swiftness of their running, no possibility of my escaping 
them ! 

The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul within me, 
and distressed my mind so much, that I could not soon recover it, 
to think what I should have done, and how I not only should not 
have been able to resist them, but even should not have had presence 
of mind enough to do what I might have done ; much less, what now 
after so much consideration and prc])aration I might be able to do. 
Indeed, after serious thinking of these things, I should be very 
melancholy, and sometimes it would last a great while ; but I resolved 
it at last all into thankfulness to that Providence, which had delivered 
me from so many unseen dangers, and had kept me from those mis- 
chiefs which I could no way have been the agent in delivering myself 
from ; because I had not the least notion of any such thing depend- 
ing, or the least supposition of it being possible. 

This renewed a contemplation, which often had come to my 
thoughts in former time, when first I began to* see the merciful 




144 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


dispositions of Heaven, in the dangers we run through in this life. 
How wonderfully we are delivered, when we know nothing of it ; 
how when we are in a quandafy (as we call it), a doubt or hesita- 
tion, whether to go this way, or that way, a secret hint shall direct 
us this w^ay, when wo intended to go that way ; nay, when sense, 
our own inclination, and perhaps business has called to go the other 
way, yet a strange impression upon the mind, from we know not 
what springs, and by we know not what power, shall overrule us to 
go this way ; and it shall afterwards appear, that had we gone that 
way which we should have gone, and even to our imagination ought 
to have gone, we should have been ruined and lost. Upon these, 
and many like reflections, I afterwards made it a certain rule with 
1110, that whenever I found those secret hints, or pressings of my 

mind, to doing or not doing anything that presented; or to going 
this way, or that way, I never failed to obey the secret dictate ; 
though I know no other reason for it, than that such a pressure, or 
such a hint hung upon my mind. I could give many examples of the 
success of this conduct in the course of my life ; but more especially 
in the latter part of my inhabiting this unhappy island ; besides 
many occasions which it is very likely I might have taken notice of, 
if 1 had seen with the same eyes then, that I saw with now. But it 
is never too late to be wise ; and I cannot but advise all considering 
men, whose hves are attended with such extraordinary incidents as 

mine, or even not so extraordinary, not to slight such secret intima- 
tions of Providence, let them come from what invisible intelligence 
they will, that I shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot account for ; 
but certainly they are a proof of the converse of spirits, and the 
secret communication between those embodied, and those un em- 
bodied ; and such a proof as can never be withstood. Of which I 
shall have occasion to give some very remarkable instances, in the 
remainder of my solitary residence in this dismal place. 

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I confess that 
these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and the concern 
that was now upon me, put an end to all invention, and to all the 
contrivances that I had laid for my future accommodations and con- 
veniences. I had the care of my safety more now upon my hands, 
than that of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of 
wood now, for fear the noise I should make should be heard ; much 
less would I fire a gun, for the same reason ; and above all, I was 
intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke which is visible 
at a great distance in the day should betray me ; and for this reason 
I removed that part of my business which required fire, such as 
burning of pots, and pipes, etc., into my new apartment in the 
woods, where, after I had been some time, I found, to my unspeak- 
able consolation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went in *a 
vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the 
mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture in, nor indeed would 







THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 147 


any man else ; but one who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a 
fiafe retreat. 

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock where, 
by mere accident, (I would say, if I did not see abundant reason to 
ascribe all such things now to Providence) I was cutting down some 
thick branches of trees, to make charcoal ; and before I go on, I 
must observe the reason of my making this charcoal ; which was 
thus : 

I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as I said 
before ; and yet I could not live there without baking my bread, 
cooking my meat, etc., so I contrived to burn some wood here, as I 
had seen done in England, under turf, until it became chark, or dry 
coal ; and then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry 
home, and perform the other services whicli fire was wanting for at 
home, without danger of smoke. 

But this is by the by : while I was cutting down some wood here, 
I perceived that behind a very thick branch of low brushwood, or 
underwood, there was a kind of hollow place ; I was curious to look 
into it, and getting witli difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was 
pretty large ; that is to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in it, 
and perhaps another with me; but I must confess to you, I made 
more haste out than I did in, when looking farther into the place, 
and which was perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some 
creature, which twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the cave's 
mouth shining directly in and making the reflection. 

However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and plucking up 
my courage, I took up a great firebrand, and in I rushed again, with 
the stick flaming in my hand ; I had not gone three steps in, but I 
was almost as much frighted as I was before ; for I heard a very loud 
sigh, like that of a man in some pain, and it was followed by a broken 
noise, as if of words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I 
stepped back, and was indeed struck with such a surprise, that it put 
me into a cold sweat ; and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not 
answer for it, that my hair might not have lifted it off. But still 
plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and encouraging myself a 
little with considering that the power and presence of God was every- 
where, and was able to protect me ; upon this I stopped forward 
again, and by the light of the firebrand, holding it up a little over my 
head, I saw lying on the ground a most monstrous frightful old he- 
goat, just making his will, as we say, and gasping for life, and dying 
indeed of mere old age. 

I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he essayed 
to get up, but was not able to raise himself ; and I thought with my- 
self, he might even lie there ; for if he had frighted mo so, he would 
certainly fright any of the savages, if any of them should be so hardy 
as to come in there, while he had any life in him. 

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look round 

10-2 



148 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


me, when I found the cave was but very small, that is to say, it 
might be about twelve foot over, but in no manner of shape, either 
round or square, no hands having ever been employed in making it, 
but those of mere nature : I observed also, that there was a place at 
the farther side of it, that went in farther, but was so low, that it 
required me to creep upon my hands and knees to go into it, and 
whither I went I knew not ; so having no candle, I gave it over for 
some time ; but resolved to come again the next day, provided with 
candles, and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the 
muskets, with some wildfire in the pan. 

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large candles 
of my own making ; for I made very good candles now of goat’s 
tallow ; and going into this low place, I was obliged to creep upon 
all fours, as I have said, almost ten yards ; which, by the way, I 
thought was a venture bold enough, considering that I knew not how 
far it might go, or what was beyond it. When I was got through 
the strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty 
feet ; but never was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare 
say, as it was, to look round the sides and roof of this vault or cave. 
The walls reflected an hundred thousand lights to mo from my two 
candles. Wliat it was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any other 
precious stones, or gold, which I rather supposed it to be, I knew not. 

The place I was in w^as a most delightful cavity, or grotto, of its 
kind, as could be expected, though perfectly dark ; the floor was dry 
and level, and had a sort of small loose gravel upon it, so that there 
was no nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there 
any damp or wet on the sides or roof. The only difficulty in it w^as 
the entrance, which however, as it was a place of security, and such 
a retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a convenience ; so that I 
was really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved without any delay, 
to bring some of those things which I was most anxious about, to 
this place ; particularly, I resolved to bring hither my magazine oi 
powder, and all my spare arms, viz., two fowling-pieces, for I had 
three in all ; and three muskets, for of them I had eight in all ; so I 
kept at my castle only five, which stood ready mounted like pieces 
of cannon, on my outmost fence ; and were ready also to take out 
upon any expedition. 

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I took occasion 
to open the barrel of powder which I took up out of the sea, and 
which had been wet ) and I found that the water had penetrated 
about three or four inches into the powder, on every side, which 
caking and growing hard, had preserved the inside like a kernel in a 
shell ; so that I had nearly sixty pound of veiy good powder in the 
centre of the cask, and this was an agreeable discovery to me at that 
time ; so I carried all away thither, never keeping above two or three 
pound of powder with me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any 
Kind. I also carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 149 


I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which are said 
to live in caves, and holes, in the rocks, where none could come at 
them ; for I persuaded myself while I was here, if five hundred 
savages were to hunt me, they could never find me out; or if they 
did, they would not venture to attack me here. 

The old goat who I found expiring, died in the mouth of the cave, 
the next day after I made this discovery ; and I found it much easier 
to dig a hole there, and throw him in, and cover him with earth, than 
to drag him out. 

I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in this island, and 
was so naturalized to the place, and to the manner of living, that 
could I have but enjoyed the certainty that no savages would come 
to the place to disturb me, I could have been content to have capitu- 
lated for spending the rest of my time there, even to the last moment, 
until I had laid me down and died, like the old goat in the cave. I 
had also arrived to some little diversions and amusement, which 
made the time pass more pleasantly with me a great deal, than it 
did before ; as first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to 
speak ; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so articulately and 
plain, that it was very pleasant to mo ,* and he lived with me no less 
than six-and-twenty years : how long he might live afterwards, I 
know not ; though I know they have a notion in the Brazils, that 
they live a hundred years ; perhaps poor Poll may be alive there 
still, calling after poor Eobin Crusoe, to this day. My dog was a 
very pleasant and loving companion to me, for no less than sixteen 
years of my time, and then died, of mere old age ; as for my cats, 
they multipliod, as I have observed, to that degree, that I was 
obliged to shoot several of them at first, to keep them from devour- 
ing me and all I had; but at length, when the two old ones I brought 
with me were gone, and after some time continually driving them 
from me, and letting them have no provision with me, they all ran 
wild into the woods, except two or three favourites, which I kept 
tame ; and whose young when they had any, I always drowned ; 
and these were part of my family. Besides those, I always kept two 
or three household kids about me, who I taught to feed out of my 
hand ; and I had two more parrots which talked pretty well, and 
would all call Eobin Crusoe ; but none like my first ; nor indeed did 
f take the pains with any of them that I had done with him. I had 
also several tame sea-fowls, whose names I know not, who I caught 
upon the shore, and cut their wings ; and the little stakes which I 
had planted before my castle wall being now grown up to a good thick 
grove, these fowls all lived among these low trees, and bred there, 
which was very agreeable to me ; so that, as I said above, I began 
to be very well contented with the life I led, if it might but have been 
secured from the dread of the savages. 

But it was otherwise directed ; and it may not be amiss for all 
people who shall meet with my story, to make this just observation 




150 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


from it, viz., how frequently in the course of our lives, the evil which 
in itself we seek most to shun, and which when we are fallen into 
it, is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door 
of our deliverance, by which alone we can be raised again from the 
affliction we are fallen into. I could give many examples of this in 
the course of my unaccountable life ; but in nothing was it more 
particularly remarkable, than in the circumstances of my last years 
of solitary residence in this island. 

It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty- 
third year ; and this being the southern solstice, for winter I cannot 
call it, was the particular time of my harvest, and required my being 
pretty much abroad in the fields, when going out pretty early in the 
morning, even before it was thorough daylight, I was surprised with 
seeing a light of some fire upon the shore, at a distance from me, of 
about two mile towards the end of the island, where I had observed 
some savages had been as before ; but not on the other side ; but to 
my great afiiiction, it was on my side of the island. 

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stepped short 
within my grove, not daring to go out, least I might be surprised ; 
and yet I had no more peace witliin, from the apprehensions I had, 
that if these savages in rambling over the island, should find my 
corn standing, or cut, or any of my works and improvements, they 
would immediately conclude, that there were people in the place, and 
would then never give over till they had found mo out. In this ex- 
tremity I went back directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder after 
me, and made all things without look as wild and natural as I could. 

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of 
defence ; I loaded all my cannon, as I called them ; that is to say, 
my muskets, which were mounted upon my new fortification, and all 
my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp, not for- 
getting seriously to commend myself to the Divine protection, and 
earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of the bar- 
barians ; and in this posture I continued about two hours ; but began 
to be mighty impatient for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to 
send out. 

After sitting a while longer, and musing what I should do in this 
ease, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance any longer ; so set- 
ting up my ladder to the side of the hill, where there was a flat place, 
as I observed before, and then pulling the ladder up after me, I set 
it up again, and mounted to the top of the hill ; and pulling out my 
perspective-glass, which I had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat 
on my belly, on the ground, and began to look for the place ; I pre- 
sently found there was no less than nine naked savages, sitting round 
a small fire they had made, not to warm them ; for they had no 
need of that, the weather being extreme hot ; but as I supposed, to 
dress some of their barbarous diet of human flesh, which they had 
brought with them, whether alive or dead I could not know. 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 15 1 


They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up upon 
the shore ; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to mo to 
wait for the return of the flood, to go away again ; it is not easy to 
imagine what confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing them 
come on my side the island, and so near me too ; but when I observed 
their coming must bo always with the current of the ebb, I began 
afterwards to be more sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might 
go abroad with safety all the time of the tide of flood, if they were 
not on shore before. And having made this observation, I went 
abroad about my harvest work with more composure. 

As I expected, so it proved ; for as soon as the tide made to the 
westward, T saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as we call 
it) all away : I should have observed that for an hour and more be- 
fore they went off, they went to dancing, and I could easily discern 
their postures, and gestures, by my glasses : I could not perceive by 
my nicest observation, but that they were stark naked, and had not 
the least covering upon them; but whether they were men or women, 
that I could not distinguish. 

As soon as I saw them shipped, and gone, I took two guns upon 
my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle, and my great sword by 
my side, without a scabbard, and with all the speed I was able to 
make, I went away to the hill, where I had discovered the first ap- 
pearance of all ; and as soon as I gat thither, which was not less 
than two hours, (for I could not go apace, being so loaded with arms 
as I vras) I perceived there had been three canoes more of savages 
on that place ; and looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea 
together, and making over for the main. 

This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when going down to 
the shore, I could see the marks of horror, which the dismal work 
they had been about had left behind it, viz., the blood, the bones, 
and i)art of the flesh of human bodies, eaten and devoured by those 
wretches, with merriment and sport. I was so filled with indigna- 
tion at the sight, that I began now to premeditate the destruction of 
the next that I saw there, let them be who or how many soever. 

It seemed evident to me, that the visits which they thus make to 
this island are not very frequent ; for it was above fifteen months 
before any more of them came on shore there again ; that is to say, 
I neither saw them, or any footsteps, or signals of them, in all that 
time ; for as to the rainy seasons, then they are sure not to come 
abroad, at least not so far ; yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, 
by reason of the constant apprehensions I was in of their coming 
upon me by surprise ; from whence I observe, that the expectation 
of evil is more bitter than the suffering, especially if there is no room 
to shake off that expectation, or those apprehensions. 

During all this time, I was in the murdering humour ; and took 
up most of my hours, which should have been better employed, in 
contriving how to circumvent, and fall upon them, the very next time 



152 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


I should see them; especially if they shouldbe divided, as they were the 
last time, into two parties ; nor did I consider at all, that if I killed 
one party, suppose ten, or a dozen, I was still the next day, or week, 
or month, to kill another, and so another, even ad infinitum, till I 
should be at length no less a murderer than they were in being man- 
eaters ; and perhaps much more so. 

I spent my days now in great perplexity, and anxiety of mind, ex- 
pecting that I should one day or other fall into the hands of these 
merciless creatures ; and if I did at any time venture abroad, it was 
not without looking round me with the greatest care and caution 
imaginable; and now I found to my great comfort, how happy it was 
that I provided for a tame flock or herd of goats ; for I durst not 
upon any account fire my gun, especially near that side of the island 
where they usually came, lest I should alarm the savages; and if they 
had fled from me now, I was sure to have them come back again, 
with perhaps two or three hundred canoes with them in a few days, 
and then I knew what to expect. 

However, I wore out a year and three months more, before I ever 
saw any more of the savages, and then I found them again, as I shall 
soon observe. It is true, they might have been there once, or twice; 
but either they made no stay, or at least I did not hear tliem ; but in 
the month of May, as near as I could calculate, and in my four-and- 
twentieth year, I had a very strajige encounter with them, of which 
in its place. 

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or sixteen months’ 
interval, w^as very great ; I slept unquiet, dreamed always frightful 
dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night. In the day 
great troubles overwhelmed my mind, and in the night I dreamed 
often of killing the savages, and of the reasons why I might justify 
the doing of it ; but to waive all this for a while, it was in the middle 
of May, on the sixteenth day I think, as well as my poor wooden 
calendar would reckon ; for I marked all upon the post still ; I say, 
it was the sixteenth of May, that it blew a very great storm of wind, 
all day, with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul 
night it was after it ; J know not what was the particular occasion of 
it ; blit as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with very serious 
thoughts about my present condition, I was surprised with a noise of 
a gun, as I thought fired at sea. 

was, to be sure, a surprise of a quite different nature from any 
I had niet with before ; for the notions this put into my thoughts 
were quite of another kind. I started up in the greatest haste im- 
aginable, and in a trice clapped my ladder to the middle place of the 
rock, and pulled it after me, and mounting it the second time, got to 
the top of the hill, the very moment that a flash of fire bid me listen 
for a second gun, which accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard, 
and by the sound, knew that it was from that part of the sea where 
I was driven down the current in my boat. 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 153 


I immediately considered that this must be some ship in distress, 
and that they had some comrade, or some other ship in company, 
and fired these guns for signals of distress, and to obtain help. I 
had this presence of mind at that minute, as to think that though I 
could not help them, it may be they might help me ; so I brought 
together all the dry wood I could get at hand, and making a good 
handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill ; the wood was dry, and 
blazed freely ; and though the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt 
fairly out ; that I was certain, if there was any such thing as a ship, 
they must needs see it, and no doubt they did ; for as soon as ever 
my fire blazed up, I heard another gun, and after that several others, 
all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night long, until day 
broke ; and when it was broad day, and the air cleared up, I saw 
something at a great distance at sea, full east of the island, whether 
a sail, or a hull, I could not distinguish, no not with my glasses, the 
distance was so great, and the weather still something hazy also ; 
at least it was so at sea. 

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that it 
did not move ; so I presently concluded that it was a ship at an 
anchor, and being eager, you may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my 
gun in my hand, and run toward the south side of the island, to the 
rocks where I had formerly been carried away with the current, and 
getting up there, the weather by this time being perfectly clear, I 
could plainly see to my great sorrow, the WTeck of a ship cast away 
in the night, upon those concealed rocks wliich I found, when I was 
out in my boat ; and which rocks, as they checked the violence of 
the stream, and made a kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were the 
occasion of my recovering from the most desperate hopeless condition 
that ever I had been in all my life. 

Thus, what is one man’s safety is another man’s destruction \ for 
it seems these men, whoever they were, being out of their knowledge, 
and the rocks being wholly under water, had been driven upon them 
in the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and E.N.E. Had they 
seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose they did not, they 
must, as I thought, have endeavoured to have saved themselves on 
shore by the help of their boat ; but their firing of guns for help, 
especially when they saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many 
thoughts ; first, I imagined that upon seeing my light, they might 
have put themselves into their boat, and have endeavoured to make 
the shore ; but that the sea going very high, they might have been 
cast away ; other times I imagined, that they might have lost their 
boat before, as might be the case many ways ; as particularly by 
the breaking of the sea upon their ship, which many times obliges 
men to stave, or take in pieces their boat ; and sometimes to throw 
it overboard with their own hands. Other times I imagined they 
had some other ship, or ships in company, who upon the signals of 
distress they had made, had taken them up, and carried them off. 



154 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

Other whiles I fancied, they were all gone off to sea in their boat, 
and being hurried away by the current that I had been formerly in, 
were carried out into the great ocean, where there was nothing but 
misery and perishing; and that perhaps they might by this time 
think of starving, and of being in a condition to eat one another. 

As all these were but conjectures at best ; so in the condition I was 
in, I could do no more than look on upon the misery of the poor 
men, and pity them, which had still this good effect on my side, that 
it gave me more and more cause to give thanks to God who had so 
happily and comfortably provided for me in my desolate condition ; 
and that of two ships’ companies who wore now cast away upon this 
part of the world, not one life should be spared but mine. I learned 
here again to observe, that it is very rare that the providence of God 
casts us into any condition of life so low, or any misery so great, but 
we may see something or other to bo thankful for ; and may see 
others in worse circumstances than our own. 

Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom I could not so 
much as see room to suppose any of them were saved ; nothing could 
make it rational, so much as to wish, or expect that they did not all 
perish there ; except tlie possibility only oi their being taken up by 
another ship in company, and this was but mere possibility indeed ; 
for 1 saw not the least signal or appearance of any such thing. 

I cannot explain by any possible energy of words, what a strange 
longing or hankering of desires I felt in my soul upon this sight ; 
breaking out sometimes thus : O that there had been but one or two ; 
nay, or but one soul saved out of this sliip, to have escaped to me, 
that I might but have had one companion, one fellow-creature to 
have spoken to me, and to have conversed with 1 In all the time of 
my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so strong a desire after the 
society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at the want of it. 

There are some secret moving springs in the affections, which 
when they are set a-going by some object in view, or be it some 
object, though not in view, yet rendered present to the mind by the 
power of imagination, that motion carries out the soul by its impetu- 
osity to such violent eager embracings of the object, that the absence 
of it is insupportable. 

Such were these earnest wishings, that but one man had been 
saved I 0 that it had been but one ! I believe I repeated the words, 
O that it had been but one 1 a thousand times ; and the desires were 
so moved by it, that when I spoke the words, my hands would clinch 
together, and my fingers press the palms of my hands, that if I had 
had any soft thing in my hand, it would have crushed it involun- 
tarily; and my teeth in my head would strike together, and set 
against one another so strong, that for some time I could not part 
them again. 

Let the naturalists explain these things, and the reason and manner 
of them ; all I can say to them is, to describe the fact, which was 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 155 


even surprising to me when I found it, though I knew not from what 
it should proceed ; it was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes, and 
of strong ideas formed in my mind, realizing the comfort which the 
conversation of one of my fellow-Christians would have been to me. 

But it was not to be ; either their fate, or mine, or both, forbid it ; 
for till the last year of my being on this island, I never knew whether 
any were saved out of that' ship or no ; and had only the affliction 
some days after to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore, 
at the end of the island which was next the shipwreck. He had on 
no clothes, but a seamen’s waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen 
drawers, and a blue linen shirt ; but nothing to direct me so much 
as to guess what nation he was of. He had nothing in his pocket 
but two pieces of eight, and a tobacco-pipe ; the last was to me of 
ten times more value than the first. 

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my 
boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find something on 
board that might be useful to me ; but that did not altogether press 
me so much, as the possibility that there might be yet some living 
creature on board, whose life I might not only save, but might by 
saving that hfe, comfort my own to the last degree ; and this thought 
clung so to my heart, that I could not be quiet, night or day, but I 
must venture out in my boat on board this wreck ; and committing 
the rest to God’s providence, I thought the impression was so strong 
upon my mind, that it could not be resisted, that it must come from 
some invisible direction, and that I should be wanting to myself if I 
did not go. 

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my castle, 
prepared everything for my voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great 
pot for fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum, for I 
had still a great deal of that left, a basketful of raisins. And thus 
loading myself with everything necessary, I went down to my boat, 
got the water out of her, and got her afioat, loaded all my cargo in 
her, and then went home again for more ; my second cargo was a 
great bag full of rice, the umbrella to set up over my head for shade, 
another large pot full of fresh 'water, and about two dozen of my small 
loaves, or barley cakes, more than before, with a bottle of goat’s 
milk and a cheese ; all which, with great labour and sweat, I brought 
to my boat ; and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out, and 
rowing or paddling the canoe along the shore, I came at last to the 
utmost point of the island on that side, viz., N.E. And now I was 
to launch out into the ocean, and either to venture, or not to venture. 
I looked on the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of 
the island, at a distance, and which were very terrible to me, fro3n 
the remembrance of the hazard I had been in before, and my heart 
began to fail me ; for I foresaw that if I was driven into either of 
those currents, I should be carried a vast way out to sea, and perhaps 
out of my reach or sight of the island again ; and that then, as my 



IS6 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

boat was but small, if any little gale of wind should rise, I should be 
inevitably lost. 

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give over my 
enterprise, and having hauled my boat into a little creek on the 
shore, I stepped out, and set mo down upon a little rising bit of 
ground, very pensive and anxious, between fear and desire ab^out my 
voyage ; when, as I vras musing, I could perceive that the tide was 
turned, and the flood come on, upon which my going was for so many 
liours impracticable. Upon this, presently it occurred to mo that I 
should go up to the highest piece of ground I could find, and observe, 
if I could, how the sets of the tide or currents lay when the flood 
came in, that I might judge whether if I was driven one way out, I 
might not expect to be driven another way home with the same 
rapidness of the currents. This thought was no sooner in my head, 
but I cast my eye upon a little hill, which sufiiciently overlooked the 
sea both ways, and from whence I had a clear view of the currents 
or sets of the tide, and which way I was to guide myself in my 
return. Here I found that as the current of the ebb set out close by 
the south point of the island, so the current of the flood set in close 
by the shore of the north side, and that I had nothing to do but to 
keep to the north of the island in my return, and I should do well 
enough. 

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the next morning to 
set out with the first of the tide ; and reposing myself for the night 
in the canoe, under the great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched 
out. I made first a little out to sea full north, till I began to feel 
the benefit of the current, which set eastward, and which carried me 
at a great rate, and yet did not so hurry me as the southern side 
current had done before, and so as to take from mo all government 
of the boat : but having a strong steerage with my paddle, I went at 
a great rate, directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came 
up to it. 

It was a dismal sight to look at. The ship, which by its building 
was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks ; all the stern 
and quarter of her was beaten to pieces, with the sea ; and as her 
forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great violence, 
her mainmast and foremast were brought by the board ; that is to 
say, broken short off ; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head 
and bow appeared firm. When I came close to her, a dog appeared 
upon her, who seeing me coming, yelped and cried ; and as soon as 
I called him, jumped into the sea, to come to me, and I took him 
into the boat ; but found him almost dead for hunger and thirst. I 
gave him a cake of my bread, and he eat it like a ravenous wolf, 
that had been starving a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the 
poor creature some fresh water, with which, if I would have let him, 
he would have burst himself. 

After this I went onboard ; but the first sight I met with, was two 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 157 

men drowned, in the cook-room, or forecastle of the ship, with their 
arms fast about one another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, 
that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke so high, 
and so continually over her, that the men were not able to bear it, 
and were strangled with the constant rushing in of the water, as much 
as if they had been under water. Besides the dog, there was nothing 
left in the ship that had Hfe ; nor any goods that I could see, but 
what were spoiled by the water. Tliere were some casks of liquor, 
whether wine or brandy, I knew not, which lay lower in the hold ; 
and which, the water being ebbed out, I could see ; but they were 
too big to meddle with. I saw several chests, which I believed be- 
longed to some of the seamen ; and I got two of them into the boat, 
without examining what was in them. 

Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the forepart broken off, 
I am persuaded I might have made a good voyage ; for by what I 
found in these two chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a 
great deal of wealth on board ; and if I may guess by the course she 
steered, she must have been bound from the Buenos Ayres, or the 
Eio de la Plata, in the south part of America, beyond the Brazils, to 
the Havana, in the Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She 
had, no doubt, a great treasure in her ; but of no use at that time 
to anybody; and what became of the rest of her people, I then 
knew not. 

I found besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of about 
twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much difficulty ; there 
were several muskets in a cabin, and a great powder-horn, with 
about four pounds of powder in it ; as for the muskets, I had no 
occasion for them ; so I left them, but took the powder-horn. I 
took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted extremely ; as also two 
little brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron ; 
and with this cargo, and the dog, I came away, the tide beginning 
to make home again ; and the same evening, about an hour within 
night, I reached the island again, weary and fatigued to the last 
degree. 

I reposed that night in the boat, and in the morning I resolved to 
harbour what I had gotten in my new cave, not to carry it home to 
my castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, 
and began to examine the particulars. The cask of liquor I found 
to be a kind of rum, but not such as we had at the Brazils ; and in 
a word, not at all good; but when I came to open the chests, I 
found several things of great use to me. For example, I found in 
one a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled with 
cordial waters, fine, and very good ; the bottles held about three 
pints each, and were tipped with silver. I found two pots of very 
good succades, or sweetmeats, so fastened also on top, that the salt 
water had not hurt them; and two more of the same, which the 
water had spoiled. I found some very good shirts, which were very 



158 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


welcome to me ; and about a dozen and half of linen white handker- 
chiefs, and coloured neckcloths ; the former were also very welcome, ‘ 
being exceeding refreshing to wipe my face in a hot day ; besides 
this, when I came to the till in the chest, I found there three great 
bags of pieces of eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces in 
all ; and in one of them, wrapt up in a paper, six doubloons of gold, 
and some small bars or wedges of gold ; I suppose they might all 
weigh near a pound. 

The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but of little value ; 
but by the circumstances it must have belonged to the gunner’s mate, 
though tliere was no powder in it, but about two pound of fine glazed 
powder, in three small flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their 
fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon the whole, I got very little by 
this voyage that was of any use to me ; for as to the money, I had 
no manner of occasion for it. It was to me as the dirt under my 
feet ; and I would have given it all for three or four pair of Enghsh 
shoes and stockings, which were things I greatly wanted, but had 
not had on my feet now for many years. I had indeed gotten two 
pair of shoes now, which I took ofl of the feet of the two drowned 
men, who 1 saw in the wreck ; and I found two pair more in one of 
the chests, which were very welcome to me ; but they were not like 
our English shoes, either for ease or service, being rather what we 
call pumps tlaan shoes. I found in this seaman’s chest about fifty 
pieces of eight in royals, but no gold ; I suppose this belonged to a 
poorer man than the other, which seemed to belong to some officer. 

.Well, however, I lugged this money home to my cave, and laid it 
up, as I had done that before which I brought from our own ship ; 
but it was great pity, as I said, that the other part of this ship had 
not come to my share ; for I am satisfied I might have loaded my 
canoe several times over with money, which, if I had ever escaped 
to England, would have lain here safe enough till I might have come 
again and fetched it. 

Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured them, I 
went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her along the shore to 
her old harbour, where I laid her up, and made the best of my way 
to my old habitation, where I found everything safe and quiet ; so 
I began to repose myself, live after my old fashion, and take care of 
my family affairs ; and for a while I lived easy enough, only that I 
was more vigilant than I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not 
go abroad so much ; and if at any time I did stir with any freedom, 
it was always to the east part of the island, where I was pretty well 
satisfied the savages never came, and where I could go without so 
many precautions, and such a load of arms and ammunition, as I 
always carried with me if I went the other way. 

I lived in this condition near two years more ; but my unlucky 
head, that was always to let me know it was born to make my body 
miserable, was all this two years filled with projects and designs, 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 159 


how, if it were possible, I might get away from this island ; for some- 
times I was for making another voyage to the wreck, though my 
reason told me that there was nothing left there worth the hazard of 
my voyage : sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another ; 
and I believe verily, if I had had the boat that I went from Sallee in, 
I should have ventured to sea, bound anywhere, I knew not whither. 

I had been in all my circumstances a memento to those who are 
touched with the general plague of mankind, whence, for ought I 
know, one half of their miseries flow ; I mean, that of not being 
satisfied with the station wherein God and nature has placed them ; 
for not to look back upon my primitive condition, and the excellent 
advice of my father, the opposition to which was, as I may call it, 
my original sin, my subsequent mistakes of the same kind had 
been the means of my coming into this miserable condition ; for had 
that Providence, wdiich so happily had seated me at the Brazils as a 
planter, blessed me with confined desires, and I could have been 
contented to have gone on gradually, I might have been by this time, 
I mean in the time of my being in this island, one of the most con- 
siderable planters in the Brazils ; nay, I am persuaded that by the 
improvements I had made in that little time I lived there, and tho 
increase 1 should probably have made if I had stayed, I might have 
been worth an hundred thousand moidores ; and what business had 
I to leave a settled fortune, a well-stocked plantation, improving and 
increasing, to turn super-cargo to Guinea to fetch negroes; when 
patience and time would have so increased our stock at home that 
we could have bought them at our own door from those whose busi- 
ness it was to fetch them ; and though it had cost us something 
more, yet the difference of that price was by no means worth saving 
at so great a hazard. 

But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, so reflection upon 
the folly of it is as ordinarily the exercise of more years, or of the 
dear-bought experience of time; and so it was with me now; and 
yet so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper, that I could 
not satisfy myself in my station, but was continually poring upon the 
means and possibility of my escape from this place ; and that I may, 
with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring 01: the remaining part 
of my story, it may not be improper to give some account of my first 
conceptions on the subject of this foolish scheme for my escape ; and 
how, and upon what foundation, I acted. 

I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after my late 
voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up, and secured under water, ns 
usual, and my condition restored to what it was before ; I had more 
wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was not at all the richer; 
for I had no more use for it than the Indians of Peru had, before the 
Spaniards came there. 

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the four-and- 
twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island of solitariness ; 



i6o THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


I was lying in my bed, or hammock, awake, very well in health, 
had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body; no, nor any 
uneasiness of mind, more than ordinary; but could by no means 
close my eyes, that is, so as to sleep ; no, not a wink all night long, 
otherwise than as follows : 

It is as imj)o.ssible, as needless, to set down the innumerable crowd 
of thouglits that w^hirled through that great thoroughfare of the brain, 
the memory, in this night^s time. I ran ovel’ the whole history of 
my life in miniature, or by abridgment, as I may call it, to my 
coming to this island ; and also of the part of my life sinco I came 
to this island. In my reflections upon the state of my case since I 
came on shore on tliis island, I was comparing the happy posture of 
my affairs in the first years of my habitation here, compared to the 
life of anxiety, fear and care, which I had lived ever since I had 
seen the print of a foot in the sand ; not that I did not believe the 
savages had frequented the island even all the while, and might have 
been several hundreds of them at times on shore there ; but I had 
never known it, and was incapable of any aj)prehcnsions about it ; 
my satisfaction was perfect, tlioughmy danger was the same ; and I 
was as happy in not knowing my danger as if I had never really 
been exposed to it. This furnished my thoughts with many very 
profitable reflections, and particularly this one : how infinitely good 
that Providence is whicli has provided, in its government of man- 
kind, such narrow bounds to his sight and knowledge of things, and 
though he wallcs in the midst of so many thousand dangers, the 
sight of which, if discovered to him, would distract his mind, and 
sink his spirits ; he is kept serene, and calm, by having the events of 
things hid from his eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers which 
surround him. 

After these thoughts had for some time entertained me, I came to 
reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been in, for so many 
years, in this very island ; and how I had walked about in the 
greatest security, and with all possible tranquillity ; even when, 
perhaps, nothing but the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual 
approach of night, had been between me and the worst kind of 
destruction, viz., that of falling into the hands of cannibals and 
savages, who would have seized on me with the same view as I did 
of a goat, or a turtle, and have thought it no more a crime to kill 
and devour me, than I did of a pigeon, or curlew. I would unjustly 
slander myself, if I should say I was not sincerely thankful to my 
great Preserver, to whose singular protection I acknowledged, with 
great humility, that all these unknown deliverances were due ; and 
without which I must inevitably have fallen into their merciless 
hands. 

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time taken 
up in considering the nature of these wretched creatures ; I mean, 
the savages ; and how it Game to pass in the world that the wise 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. i6i 


Governor of all things should give up any of His creatures to such 
inhumanity ; nay, to something so much below, even brutality itself, 
as to devour its own kind ; but as this ended in some (at that time 
fruitless) speculations, it occurred to me to inquire what part of the 
world these wretches lived in ; liow far off the coast was from whence 
they came; what tliey ventured over so far from home for; what 
kind of boats they had ; and why 1 might not order myself and my 
business so, that I might be as able to go over thitlier, as they were 
to come to me. 

1 never so much as troubled myself to consider what I sliould do 
with myself when I came thither ; wdiat would become of me if I 
fell into the hands of the savages ; or how 1 should escape from 
them if they attenqhed me ; no, nor so mucli as how it was possible 
for mo to reach the coast, and not bo attcunpted by some or other of 
them, without any possibility of delivering myself ; and if I should 
not fall into their hands, what I should do for provision, or whither 
T should bend my course ; none of those thoughts, I say, so much as 
came in my way ; but my mind was wliolly bent upo?) the notio]i of 
my passing over in my boat to the iiuiinland. I look(;d back upon 
my present condition, as the most miserable that could possibly be, 
that I was not able to throw myself into anytliing but death, that 
could be called worse ; that if 1 reached the shore of the main, I 
might perhai)s meet with relief, or I might coast along, as I did on 
the sliore of iVfrica, till 1 came to some inhabited country, and where 
I miglit find some redief ; and after all, perha])s, T might fall in with 
some Qu’istian ship that miglit take me in ; and if the worse came 
to the worst, I could but die, which would put an end to all these 
miseries at once. Pray note, all this was tlio fruit of a disturbed 
mind, an im])atient temper, made, as it wwe, desperate by the long 
continuance of my troubles, and the disappointments I had met in 
the wreck I had het;n on hoard of ; and wliere 1 had been so near the 
obtaining what 1 so earnestly longed for, viz., somebody to speak to, 
and to learn some knowledge from of the place where I was, and of 
the xux^bahle means of my deliverance ; I say, I was agitated wholly 
by those thoughts. All my calm of mind in my resignation to Provi- 
dence, and waiting the issue of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to 
be suspended ; and 1 had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts 
to anything but to the project of a voyage to the main, wdiich came 
upon me with such force, and such an imxietuosity of desire, that it 
was not to be resisted. 

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, with 
such violence that it set my very blood into a ferment, and my pulse 
beat as high as if I had been in a fever, merely with the extra- 
ordinary fervour of my mind about it, nature, as if I had been 
fatigued and exhausted with the very thought of it, threw me into a 
sound sleep ; one would have thought I should have dreanied of it. 
But I did not, nor of anything relating to it ; but I dreamed, that as 



i 62 the life and adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


I was going out in the morning as usual from my castle, I saw upon 
the shore Wo canoes, and elevenc savages coming to land, and that 
they brought with them another savage, who they were going to kill, 
in order to eat him ; when on a sudden the savage, that they were 
going to kill, jumped away, and ran for his life ; and I thought in my 
sleep that he came running into my little tliick grove, before my 
fortification, to hide himself ; and that I seeing him alone, and not 
perceiving that the other sought him that way, sliowed myself to him, 
and smiling upon him, encouraged him; that he kneeled down to mo, 
seeming to pray me to assist him ; upon wdiich I showed my ladder, 
made him go up, and carried him into my cave, and he became my 
servant; and that as soon as I had gotten this man, I said to myself, 
Now I may certainly venture to the mainland ; for this fellow will 
serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither to go 
for provisions ; and whither not to go for fear of being devoured ; 
what places to venture into, and what to escape. I waked with this 
thought, and was under such inexpressible impressions of joy at the 
pros])ect of my escape in my dream, that the disap 2 )ointmcnt w'hich 
I felt upon comijig to myself, and finding it was no more than a 
dream, were equally extravagant the other way, and threw me into a 
very great dejection of spirit. 

’U 2 )on this, however, I made this conclusion, that my only way 
to go about an attempt for an escape was, if possible, to get a 
savage into my possession ; and, if possible, it should bo one of their 
prisoners, wdio they had condemned to bo eaten, and should bring 
thither to kill; but these thoughts still wxre attended with this 
difficulty, that it w^as impossible to effect this without attacking a 
whole caravan of them, and killing them all ; and this was not only 
a very desperate attempt, and might miscarry ; but on the other 
hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness of it to me, and my heart 
trembled at the thoughts of shedding so mucli blood, though it w^as 
for my deliverance. 1 need not rejieat the arguments which occurred 
to me against this, they being the same mentioned before ; but thougli 
I had other reasons to offer now, viz. : that those men were enemies 
to my life, and would devour me if they could ; that it was self- 
preservation in the highest degree to deliver my self from this death 
of a life, and was acting in my own delence as much as if they were 
actually assaulting me and the like ; I say, thougli the things argued 
for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human blood for my deliverance 
were very terrible to me, and such as 1 could by no means reconcile 
myself to, a great while. 

However, at last, alter many secret disputes with myself, and after 
great perplexities about it, for all these ai guments one way and another 
struggled in my head a long time, the eager prevailing desire of 
deliverance at length mastered all the rest ; and 1 resolved, if possible, 
to get one of those savages into my hands, cost what it would. My 
pext thing then was to contrive how to do it, and this, indeed, was 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 163 


very difficult to resolve on ; but as T could pitch upon no probable 
means for it, so I resolved to put myself ujjon the watcli to see 
them when they came 011 sliore, and leave the rest to tlie event, 
taking such measures as the opportunity should present, let be what 
would be. 

With these resolutions in my thoughts, 1 set myself upon tlie 
scout as often as possible, and, indeed, so often till I was lieartily 
tired of it ; for it was above a year and half that I waited, and for 
great part of that time went oiit to the west end, and to tlie south- 
wrest corner of the island, almost every day to see for canoes, but 
none apiieared. This was very discouraging, and began to trouble 
me much, though I cannot say that it did m this case, as it liad done 
some time before that, viz., wear off the edge of my desire to the 
thing. But the longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was 
for it ; ill a word, 1 was not at first so careful to shun the sight 
of these savages, and avoid being seen by them, as I was now eager 
to be upon them. 

Besides, I fanci(‘d myself able to manage one, nay, tw^o or three 
savages, if I liad them so as to make them entirely slaves to me, to 
do whatever I should direct them, and to prevent their being able at 
any time to do me any hurt. It was a great wliile that I pleased 
myself with this affair, but nothing still jircseiitcd ; all iny fancies 
and schemes came to nothing, for no savages came near 1110 for 
a great w^hile. 

About a year and lialf after I had entertained those notions, and 
by long musing liad, as it were, resolved them all into nothing, for 
want of an occasion to put them in execution, I was surprised one 
morning early v/ith seeing no less than five canoes all on shore 
together on my side tlie island, and the people who belonged to them 
all landed, and out of my sight. The number of tliem broke all my 
measures, for seeing so many, and knowing that they always came 
four or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, 1 could not tell wliat to 
think of it, or how to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty 
men single-handed; so I lay still in my castle, perplexed and dis- 
comforted. However, I put myself into all the same postures for an 
attack that I had formerly provided, and was just ready for action if 
anything had presented. Having waited a good while, listening to 
hear if they made any noise ; at length, being very impatient, I set 
my guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the top of 
the hill by my two stages as usual, standing so, however, that my 
head did not appear above the hill, so that they could not perceive 
me by any means ; here I observed, by the help of my perspective 
glass, that they were no less than thirty in number, that they had a 
fire kindled, and that they had meat dressed. How they had cooked 
it, that I knew not, or what it was ; but they were all dancing in I 
know not how many barbarous gestures and figures, their own way, 
round the fire. 


11 —^ 



i 64 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


While I was thus looking on them, I perceived by my perspective 
two miserable wretches dragged 'from their boats, where it seems 
they were laid by, and were now brought out for the slaughter. I 
perceived one of them immediately fell, being knocked down, I 
suppose, with a club or wooden sword, for that was their way, and 
two or three others were at work immediately cutting him open for 
their cookery, while tlio other victim was left standing by himself, till 
they should be ready for him. In that very moment this poor wretch, 
seeing himself a little at liberty, nature inspired him with hopes of 
life, and he started away from them, and ran with incredible swiftness 
along the sands directly towards me, I mean towards that part of the 
coast where my habitation was. 

I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknowledge) when I per- 
ceived him to run my way ; and especially when, as I thought, I saw 
him pursued by the whole body ; ajid now I expected that part of 
my dream was coming to pass, and that he would certainly take 
shelter in my grove ; but I could not depend by any means upon my 
dream for the rest of it, viz., that the other savages would not 
pursue him thither, and find him there. However, I kept my station, 
and rny spirits began to recover, when I found that there was not 
above three men that followed him, and still more was I encouraged 
when I found that he outstri^ipcd them exceedingly in running, and 
gained ground of them, so that if he could but hold it for half an 
hour, I saw easily he would fairly get away from them all. 

TJiere was between tliem and my castle the creek which I men- 
tioned often at the first part of my story, when I landed my cargoes 
out of the ship ; and this I saw plainly ho must necessarily swim 
over, or the poor wretch would be taken there. But when the savage 
escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, though the tide was 
then up, but plunging in swam through in about thirty strokes or 
thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding strength and swift- 
ness. When the three persons came to the creek, I found that two 
of them could swim, but the third could not, and that, standing on 
the other side, he looked at the other, but -went no further ; and soon 
after went softly back again, which, as it happened, was very well for 
him in the main. 

I observed that the two who swam were yet more than twice as 
long swimming over the creek as the fellow was that fled from 
them. It came very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irre- 
sistibly, that now was my time to get me a servant, and perhaps a 
companion, or assistant, and that I was called plainly by Providence 
to save this poor creature's life. I immediately ran down the ladders 
with all possible expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were 
both but at the foot of the ladders, as I observed above ; and getting 
up again, with the same haste, to the top of the hill, I crossed 
toward the sea, and, having a very short cut, and all down hill, 
clapped myself in the way, between the pursuers and the pursued. 




THC rfAVAfiL.^ BARE SEROUS MODE OF LIVISt,.— P. 103. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 167 

lialloing aloud to him that fled, who, looking back, was at first per- 
haps as much frighted at mo as at them ; but 1 beckoned with my 
hand to him to come back ; and in the meantime I slowly advanced 
towards the two that followed, then rushing at once upon the fore- 



making a MON 1>K BL'BMlbtjION. — p. ItJ^. 


most, I knocked him down with the stock of my piece. I was loth 
to fire, because I would not have the rest hear ; though at that dis- 
tance it would not have been easily heard, and being out of sight of 
the smoke, too, they would not have easily known what to make of 
it. Having knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued with 



i6S THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


liiin stopped, as if he had been frighted, and I advanced apace 
towards him ; but, as I came nearer, I perceived presently he had a 
bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me, bo I was then 
necessitated to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed him at the 
first shot. The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though he saw 
both his enemies [alien, and killed as bethought, yet was so frighted 
wjth the fire and iioise of my piece tliat he stood stock still, and 
neither came forward or ^veut backward, tlioiigh he seemed rather 
incJined to lly still tlian to come on. I halloed again to him, and 
made signs to come forward, which he easily understood, and came 
a little way, then sto])ped again, and then a little further, and stopped 
again, and 1 could then perceive that he stood trembling, as if he 
had been taken prisoner, and had just been to be killed, as his two 
enemies were. I beckoned him again to come to me, and gave him 
all the signs of encouragement that I could think of, ami ho came 
nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps in token 
of acknowledgment for my saving his life. I smiled at him, and 
looked pleasantly, and beckoned him to come still ]iearer ; at length 
lie cmno close to me, and tlien lie kneeled down again, kissed iho 
ground, and laid his head u])oii tlie ground, and taking me by the 
foot, set my foot upon his head. TJiis, it seems, was in token of 
swearing to bo my slave for ever. I took him up, and made much of 
him, and encouraged him all I could. Jiut there 'was more w^ork to 
do yet, for 1 ]Hirceiv'ed the s.avago whom I had knocked down was 
not killed, hut stunned with the blow, and began to come to himself; 
so I pointed to Jjim, and showed him the savage, that he was not 
dead. Upon this he sjioke some words to me, and thougli I could 
not understand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to hear, for 
they were the first sound of a man’s voice that 1 had heard, my own 
excepted, for above twenty-five years. J3ut there a\ as no time for 
such reflections now ; the savage who was knocked down recovered 
himself so far as to sit upon the ground, and I perceived that my 
savage began to be afraid ; but when I saw that, I presented my 
otliei* piece at the man as if 1 \vould shoot him; u])oii this my 
savage, for so I called him now, made a motion to mo to lend him my 
sword, which hung naked in a belt at my side, so I did. He no 
sooner had it, hut he runs to his enemy, and at one blow cut off his 
head so cleverly, no executioner in Germany could have done it 
sooner or better ; which I thought very strange for one who I had 
reason to believe never saw a sword in his life before, except their 
own wooden swords ; however, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they 
make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so 
hard, that they will cut off heads even with them, aye, and arms, 
and that at one blow too. When he had done this, he comes laugh- 
ing to me in sign of triumph, and brought me the sword again, and 
with abundance of gestures, which I did not understand, laid it down 
with the head of the savage that he had killed just before me. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 169 


But that which astonished him most was to know how I had 
killed the other Indian so far off, so pointing to him, he made signs 
to me to let him go to him ; so I bade him go, as well as I could. 
Wlien ho came to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him ; 
turned him first on one side, then on tlie other ; looked at the wound 
the bullet had made, wliich it seems was just in his breast, where it 
had made a hole, and no great quantity of blood had followed ; but he 
had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. He took up his bow and 
arrows, and came back, so 1 turned to go away, and beckoned to him 
to follow me, making signs to him that more might come after them. 

Upon this he signed to me that he should bury them witli sand, 
that they might not be seen by tlie rest if they followed ; and so I 
]nade signs again to him to do so. He fell to work, and in an instant 
lie liad scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big enough to bury 
the first in, and tlien dragged him into it, and covered him, and did 
so also by the otlier. I believe he had buried them both in a quarter 
of an hour; then calling him away, J carried him not to iiiy castle, 
but quite away to my cave, on the farther part of the island ; so 1 
did not let my dream come to pass in that part, viz., that he came 
into my grove for shelter. 

Here I gave him bread and a buncli of raisins to cat, and a 
draught of water, which I found ho was indeed in great disti'ess for, 
by his running ; and having refreshed him, I made signs for him to 
go lie down and sleep; pointing to a place where I had laid a great 
parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon it, wdiicli 1 used to sleep 
upon myself sometimes ; so the poor creature laid down, and went 
to sleep. 

He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly w’ell made; w'ith 
ftraight strong limbs, not too largo; tall and well shaped, and, as I 
l eckon, about twenty-six years of ago. He had a very good counte- 
nance, not a fierce and surly as^iect ; hut seemed to have something 
very inauly in his face, and yet he had all the s^veetness and softness 
of an European in his countenance too, especially wlien he smiled. 
His hair was long and black, not curled like wool ; liis foreliead very 
high, and large, aud a great vivacity and sx^arkling sharpness in his 
eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite black, but very tawny ; 
and yet not of £iu ugly yellow nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and 
Virginians, and other natives of America are ; but of a bright kind 
of a dun olive colour, that had in it sometiiing very agreeable; 
though not very easy to describe. His face wuis round and plump ; 
his nose small, not flat like the negroes, a very good mouth, tliin 
lips, and his fine teeth well set, and w^hite as ivory. After lie Imd 
slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour, he waked again, 
and comes out of the cave to me ; for I had been milking my goats 
which 1 had in the enclosure just by. When he espied me, he came 
running to me, laying himself down again upon the ground, with all 
the possible signs of a humble thankful disposition, making many 



lyo THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


antic gestures to show it. At last he lays his head flat upon the 
ground close to my foot, and sets* my other foot upon his head, as he 
had done before ; and after tins, made all the signs to me of sub- 
jection, servitude, and submission imaginable, to let me know how he 
would serve me as long as he lived ; I understood him in many 
things, and let him know I was very well pleased with him. In a 
little time I began to speak to him, and teach him to speak to me ; 
and first, I made liim know his name should be Friday, which was 
the day I saved his life ; I called him so for the memory of the 
time. I likewise taught him to say Master, and then let him know 
that was to be my name ; 1 likewise taught him to say Yes and No, 
and to know the meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an 
eartlmn pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop my 
bread in it ; and I gave him a cake of bread, to do the like, which 
he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was very good for 
him. 

I kept there with him all that night ; but as soon as it was day, I 
beckoned to him to come with me, and lot him know I would give 
him some clothes, at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark 
naked. As we went by the place where he had buried the two men, 
he pointed exactly to the place, and showed mo the marks that he 
liad made to find them again, making signs to mo that we should dig 
them up again, and eat them. At this I appeared very angry, ex- 
pressed my abhorrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts 
of it, and beckoned with my hand to him to come away, which he 
did immediately, with groat submission. I then led him up to the 
t^p of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone ; and pulling out my 
glass I looked, and saw plainly the place where they had been, but 
no appearance of them, or of their canoes ; so that it was plain they 
were gone, and liad left their two comrades behind them, without 
any search after them. 

But I was not content with this discovery ; but having now more 
courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took my man Friday 
with me, giving him the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows 
at his back, which I found he could use very dexterously, making him 
carry one gun for me, and I two for myself, and away we marched 
to the place where these creatures had been ; for I had a mind now 
to get some fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the place, 
my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart sunk within me, 
at the horror of the spectacle. Indeed, it was a dreadful sight, at 
least it was so to me, though Friday made nothing of it. The place 
was covered with human bones, the ground dyed with their blood, 
great pieces of flesh left here and there, half eaten, mangled, and 
scorched ; and, in short, all the tokens of the triumphant feast they 
had been making there, after a victory over their enemies. I saw 
three skulls, five hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet, 
and abundance of other parts of the bodies ; and Friday, by his 







THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 17 1 


maJe me understand that they brought over four prisoners to 
f('ast upon ; that three of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing 
to himself, was the fourth. That there had been a great battle 
between tljom and their next king, whose subjects it seems he had 
been one of ; and that they had taken a great number of prisoners, 
all which were carried to several places by those that had taken tlieni 
in the fight, in order to feast upon tliem, as was done here by these 
wretches upon those they brought hitlier. 

I caused bhiday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and whatever 
remained, and lay them together on a heap, and make a great fire 
upon it, and burn tliem all to ashes. 1 found Friday had still a 
hankering stomoch after some of the flesh, and was still a cannibal in 
his nature; but I discovered so much a blioiTcnce at the very thoughts 
of it, and at the h'ast a])pcarance of it, that he durst not discover 
it ; for I had by some means let him know, that I would kill him if 
he offered it. 

When we had done this, w’^e came back to our castle, and there I 
fell to work for my man Friday ; and first of all, I gave him a paij* 
of linen drawers, which 1 had out of the poor gunner’s chest I men- 
tioin.-d, and which I found in the wreck; and which witli a little 
a]L(‘ration fitted him very well; then I nmde him a jerkin of goat’s 
skin, as well as my skill would allow; and 1 was now grown a toler- 
able good tailor; and I gave him a cap, which 1 had made of a hare- 
skin, very convenient and fashionable enough; and thus he was 
clotlicd for tlio presemt, tolerably well ; and was mighty well pleased 
to see himself almost as w^ell clothed as his master. It is true, he 
w^ent aw'kwardly in these things at first; w^earing the drav/ers was 
very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his 
shouldei’s, and the inside of his arms ; but a little casing them whore 
he com])lainoxl they hurt him, and using himself to them, at length 
he took to them very w^ell. 

The next day after E came home to my hutch with him, I began 
to consider where I should lodg(3 him ; and that I iniglit do w'ell foj* 
him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him in 
the vacant place between my two fortifications, in the inside of the 
last, and in the outside of the first : and as there was a door or 
entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed door-case, and 
a door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little witliin 
the entrance ; and causing the door to open on the inside, I barred 
it up in the night, taking in my ladders too : so that Friday could 
no way come at me in the inside of my innermost wall, without 
making so much noise in getting over, that it must needs weaken me; 
for my first wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles, 
covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill, which 
was again laid cross with smaller sticks ijistead of lath^, and theu 
thatched over a great thickness with the rice straw, which was 
strong like reeds ; and at the hole or place which was left to go in 



172 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


or out by tiie ladder, I had placed a kind of trap-door which, if it had 
been attempted on the outside, would not have opened at all, but 
Avould have fallen down, and made a great noise ; and as to weapons, 
I took them all in to luy side every night. 

But I needed none of all this precaution ; for never man had a 
more faithful, loving, sincere servant, than Friday was to me ; with- 
out passions, sullenness or designs, perfectly obliged and engaged ; 



CRUSOE INSTRUCTS FRIDAY.— r, 17a. 


his very affections were tied to me, like those of a child to a father ; 
and I dare say he would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine[ 
upon any occasion whatsoever; the many testimonies he gave me 
of this, put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me, that I needed to 
use no precautions, as to my safety on his account. 

^ This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with wonder, 
that however it had pleased God, in His providence, and in the 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 173 

government of the works of His hands, to take from so great a 
part of the world, of His creatures, the best uses to which their 
faculties, and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that he has 
bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the same 
affections, the same sentiments of kindness and obligation, the same 
passions and resentments of wrongs; the same sense of gratitude, 
sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good, and receiving 
good, that He has given to us ; and that when He pleases to offer to 
them occasions of exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more ready 
to apply them to the right uses for which they were bestowed, than 
we are ; and this made me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, 
as the several occasions presented, how mean a use we make of all 
these, even though we have these powers enlightened by the great 
Lamp of Instruction, the Spirit of God, and by tlie knowledge of His 
Word, added to our understanding; and why it has pleased God to 
hide the like saving knowledge from so many millions of souls, who, 
if I might judge by this poor savage, would make a much bettcL* use 
of it than we did. 

From hence, I sometimes was led too far to invade the sovereignty 
of Providence, and as it were arraign the justice of so arbitrary a 
disposition of things, that should hi(3e that light from some, and 
reveal it to others, and yet expect a like duty from botli. J3ut I shut 
it up, and checked my tlioughts with this conclusion ; (1st) that wo 
did not know by what light and law these should be condemned ; 
but that as God was necessarily, and by the nature of His being, 
infinitely holy and just, so it could not be, but that if those creatures 
were all sentenced to absence from Himself, it was on account of 
sinning against that light which, as the Scripture says, was a law to 
themselves, and by such rules as their consciences would acknowledge 
to be just, though the foundation was not discovered to us. And 
(2nd) that still, as we are all the clay in the hand of the Potter, no 
vessel could say to Him, Why hast Thou formed mo thus ? 

But to return to my new companion ; I was greatly delighted with 
him, and made it my business to teach him everything, that was 
proper to make him useful, handy, and helpful ; but especially to 
make him speak, and understand me when I spake, and he was the 
aptest scholar that ever was, and particularly was so merry, so con- 
stantly diligent, and so pleased, when he could bub understand me, 
or make me understand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk 
to him ; and now my life began to be so easy, that I began to say to 
myself, that could I but have been safe from more savages, I cared 
not, if I was never to remove from the place while I lived. 

After I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I thought 
that, in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding, and 
from the relish of a cannibal’s stomach, I ought to let him taste other 
flesh ; so I took him out with me one morning to the woods. ^ I 
went indeed intending to kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring 



174 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

iiim home and dress it. But as I was going, I saw a she-goat lying 
down in the shade, and two yoting kids sitting by her. I catched 
hold of Friday, Hold, says I, stand still ; and made signs to him not 
to stir ; immediately I presented my piece, shot and killed one of the 
kids. The poor creature, who had at a distance indeed seen me 
kill the savage his enemy, but did not know, or could imagine how 
it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled, and shook, and looked 
so amazed, that I thought he would have sunk down. He did not 
see the kid I had shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up 
his waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded, and, as I found, presently 
thought I was resolved to kill him ; for he came and kneeled down 
to me, and embracing my knees, said a great many things I did not 
understand ; but I could easily see that the meaning was to pray me 
not to kill him. 

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no harm, 
and taking him up by the hand laughed at him, and pointed to the 
kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which 
he did ; and while he was wondering and looking to see how the 
creature was killed, I loaded my gun again, and by-and-by I saw a 
great fowl like a hawk sit upon a tree witbin shot; so to let Friday 
understand a little what I would do, I called him to me again, pointed 
at the fowl (which was indeed a parrot, though I thought it had been 
a hawk); I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and to the 
ground under the parj'ot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made 
him understand that 1 would shoot and kill that bird ; accordingly I 
fired and bade him look, and immediately he saw the parrot fall. 
He stood like one frighted again, notwithstanding all I had said to 
liim ; and I found he was the more amazed, because he did not see 
me y3ut anything into the gun ; but thought that there must be some 
wondei-ful fund of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill 
man, beast, bird, or anything, near or far off ; and the astonishment 
this created in him was such, as could not wear off for a long time ; 
and I believe, if I would have let him, he would have worshipped 
me and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would not so much as 
touch it for several days after ; but would speak to it, and talk to it, 
as if it had answered him, when he was by himself ; which, as I 
afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not to kill him. 

Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed to 
him to run and fetch tlie bird I had shot, which he did, but stayed 
some time ; for the parrot not being quite dead, was fluttered away 
a good way off from the place where she fell ; however, he found her, 
took her up, and brought her to me ; and as I had perceived his 
ignorance about the gun before, I took this advantage to charge the 
gun again, and not let him see me do it, that I might be ready for 
any other mark that might present; but nothing more offered at 
that time ; so I brought home the kid, and the same evening I took 
ihe skin off, and cut it out as well as I could ; and having a pot fc»r 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. t 75 


that purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the flesh, and made some 
very good broth ; and after 1 had begun to eat some, I gave some to 
my man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it very well ; but 
that which was strangest to him, was, to see me eat salt with it ; he 
made a sign to me, that the salt was not good to eat, and putting a 
little into his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit 
and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh water after it ; on 
the otl)or hand, I took some meat in my mouth without salt, and I 
pretended to spit and sputter lor wai.t of salt, as fast as ho had done 
at the salt ; hut it would not do, he would never care for salt with 
liis meat, or in his broth; at least, not a great while, and then but a 
very little. 

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved 
to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid ; this I did 
by hanging it before the fire, in a string, as I had seen many people 
do in England, setting two poles up, one on each side the fire, and 
one cross on the top, and tying the string to the cross-stick, letting 
the meat turn continually. This Friday admired very much; but 
wlien he came to taste tlie flesh, he took so many ways to tell me 
how well he liked it, that I could not but understand him ; and at 
last he told me he would ne>er eat man’s flesh any more, which I 
was very glad to hoar. 

The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out, and 
sifting it in tlie manner I used to do, as I obf^erved before, and he 
soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after ho had 
seen what the meaning of it was, and tliat it was to make bread of; 
for after that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it too, and 
in a little time Friday was able to do all the work for me, as well as 
1 could do it myself. 

I began now to consider, that having tw^o mouths to feed, instead 
of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest, and plant a 
larger quantity of corn, than I used to do ; so I marked out a larger 
piece of land, and began the fence in the same manner as before, in 
wliich Friday not only xvorked very willingly and very hard, but 
did it very cheerfully, and I told him what it was for ; that it was 
for corn to make more bread, because he was now with me, and that 
I might have enough for him, and myself too. He appeared very 
sensible of that part, and let mo know that he thought 1 had much 
more labour upon me on his account than I had for myself ; and that 
lie would work the harder for me, if 1 would tell him what to do. 

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place ; 
Frulay began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of 
almost everything I had occasion to call for, and of every place I 
had to send him to, and talked a great deal to me ; so that, in short, 
I began now to have some use for my tongue again, which indeed I 
had very little occasion for before ; that is to say, about speech. 
Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction 



►176 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

in the fellow himself ; his simple unfeigned honesty appeared to me 
more and more every day, and began really to love the creature ; 
and on his side, I believe he loved me more than it was possible for 
him over to love anything before. 

I had a mind once to try if he bad any hankering inclination to 
his own country again, and having learned him English so well that 
he could answer me almost any questions, I asked him whether the 
nation that he belonged to never conquered in battle, at which ho 
smiled, and said, Yes, yes, we always tight the better ; that is, he 
meant always get the better in tight ; and so we began the following 
discourse : You always tight the better I said I ; how came you to be 
taken prisoner then, Friday ? 

Friday. My nation heat much, for all that. 

Master. How beat ? if your nation beat them, how came you to 
be taken ? 

Friday. They more many than my nation in the place where me 
was ; they take one, two, three, and me ; my nation over beat them 
in Uio yonder place, whore me no was ; there my nation take one, 
two, great thousand. 

IVIaster. But why did not your side recover you from the hands of 
your enemies then ? 

Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in the 
canoe ; my nation have no canoe that time. 

IMaster. Well, h’riday, and what does your nation do with the 
men they take ? do they carry them away, and eat them, as these 
did ? 

Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up. 

Master. Where do they carry them ? 

Fj’iday. Go to other place wdicre they think. 

Master. Do they come hither ? 

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither ; come other else place. 

Master. Have you been here with them ? 

Friday. Yes, I been here ; [pointing to the N. W. side of the island] 
wliich it seems was their side. 

By this I understood, that my man Friday had formerly been 
among the savages, who used to come on shore on the farther part 
of the island, on the same man-eating occasions that he was now 
brought for ; and some time after, when 1 took the courage to carry 
him to that side, being the same I formerly mentioned, he presently 
knew the place, and told me he was there once when they eat up 
twenty men, two women, and one child ; he could not tell twenty in 
English ; but he numbered them by laying so many stones in a row, 
and pointing to me to tell them over. 

I have told this passage, because it introduces what follows ; that 
after I had had this discourse with him, I asked him how far it was 
from our island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not often 
lost ; be told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost ; but that 








THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 179 


after a little way out to the sea, there was a current, and wind,* 
always one way in the morning, the other in the afternoon. 

This I understood to be no more than the sets of the tide, as going 
out, or coming in ; but I afterwards understood, it was occasioned 
by the great draft and reflux of the mighty river Oroonooko, in the 
mouth, or the gulf of wdiich river, as I found afterwards, our island 
lay ; and this land which I perceived to the W. and N.W. was the 
great island Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river. 
1 asked Fiiday a thousand questions about the country, the inhabi- 
tants, the sea, the coast, and w’hat nations were near ; he told me all 
he knew with the greatest openness imaginable ; 1 asked him the 
names of the several nations of his sort of people, but could get no 
other name than Caribs ; from whence I easily understood that these 
were the Caribbees, which our maps place on the part of America 
which reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonooko to Guiana, 
and onwards to St. Martha. He told me that up a great way beyond 
the moon, thai was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must 1)0 
W. from their country, there dwelt white bearded men, like me, and 
pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned before ; and that 
they had killed much mans, that was his word ; by all wbieli I 
understood, he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in Ameri(*a!iad 
been spi-ead over the whole countries, and was remembered by all 
the nations from father to son. 

I inquired if he could tell me how'' I might come from this island, 
and get among those wdiite men; he told me, yes, yes, I might go 
111 two canoe ; I could not understand what he meant, or make him 
describe to me what he meant by two canoe, till at last, with great 
dilliculty, I found he meant it must be in a large great boat, as big 


as two caiKXiS. 

'Idiis pai't of Friday’s discourse began to relish with me very well, 
and from this time I entertained some hopes, that one time or other, I 
might find an opportunity to make my escape from this place ; and 
that this poor savage might be a means to help me to do it. 

During the long time that Friday has now been with me, and that 
he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was not wanting to 
lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his mind ; particularly I 
asked him one time who made him? The poor creature did not 
understand me at all, but thought I had asked who was his father ; 
but I took it by another handle, and asked him who made the sea, 
the ground we walked on, and the hills, and woods; 1 told me it 
v,^as one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all. He could desci ibe 
nothing of this great person, but that he was very old; much older, 
he said, than the sea, or the land ; than the moon, or the stars. I 
asked him then, if this old person had made all things, why did not 
all things worship him ; he looked very grave, and wuth a perfect 
look of innocence, said, All things do say O to him. I asked him if 
the people who die in his country went away anywhere ; he said 



i8o THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


yes, they all went to Benamuckee ; then I asked him v/hether these 
they eat up went thither too, he said yes. 

From these things, I began to instruct him in the knowledge of 
the true God. I told him that the great Maker of all things lived 
up there, pointing up towards heaven. That He governs the world 
by the same power and providence by which lie had made it. That 
He w^as omnipotent, could do everything for us, give everything to us, 
take everything from us; and thus by degrees I opened his eyes. 
He listened with great attention, and received with pleasure the 
notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of 
making our i)ra\ers to God, and His being able to hear us, even into 
heaven ; he told me one day, that if our God could hear us up beyond 
the sun. He must needs be a greater God than their Benamuckee, 
who lived but a little vray off, and yet could not hear, till they went 
up to the great moimtains where he dwelt, to speak to him ; I asked 
him if ever he went thither, to speak to him ; he said no, they nevc^r 
w(uit that were young men ; none went thither but the old men, who 
he called their Oowocakee, that is, as I made him ex])lain it to me, 
their religious, or clergy, and that they went to say O, (so he called 
saying prayers) and tlieii came back, and told thcmi what Benamuckee 
said. By this I observed, that there is priestcraft, even amongst the 
most blinded ignorant Pagans in tlie world ; and the policy of making 
a secret religion, in order to preserve the veneration of the people to the 
clergy, is not only to be found in the Eoman, but peihaps among all re- 
ligioiisinthe world, even among themost brutish and barbarous savages. 

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud, to my man Friday, and told 
him that the pretence of their old men going up the mountains, to 
say O to their god Benamuckee, was a cheat, and their bringing 
word from thence what he said, was much more so ; that if they met 
witli any answer, or spake with any one there, it must be with an evil 
spirit. And then 1 enteied into a long discourse with him about the 
devil, the original of him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to 
man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the 
world to be worshipped instead of God, and as God; and the many 
stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to his ruin ; how he had 
a secret access to our passions, and to our affections, to adapt his 
snares so to our inclinations, as to cause us even to be our own 
tempters, and to run upon our destruction by our own choice. 

I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind 
about the devil, as it was about the being of a God. Nature assisted 
all my arguments to evidence to him, even the necessity of a great 
first cause and over-ruling governing power ; a secret directing Provi- 
dence, and of the equity, and justice, of paying homage to Him that 
made us, and the like. But there appeared nothing of all this in the 
notion of an evil spirit ; of his original, his being, his nature, and 
above all of his inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so too ; 
and the poor creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by a ques- 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, l8i 


tion merely natural and innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to 
him. I had been talking a great deal to him of the power of God, 
His omnipotence, His dreadful antipathy to sin, His being a con- 
suming lire to the workers of inquity ; how, as He had made us all. 
He could destroy us and all the world in a moment ; and he listened 
with great seriousness to me all the while. 

After this, I had been tolling him how the devil was God’s enemy 
in the hearts of men, and used all his malice and skill to defea.t the 
good designs of Providence, and to ruin the Kingdom of Christ in 
the world ; and the like. Well, says Friday, but you say, God is so 
strong, so great, is He not much strong, much might as the devil ? 
Yes, yes, says I, Friday, God is stronger than the devil, God is 
above the devil, and therefore we pray to God to tread him down 
under our feet, and enable us to resist his temptations and quench 
his fiery darts. But, says he again, if God much strong, much might 
as the devil, why God no kill the devil, so make him no more do 
wicked ? 

I was strangely surprised at his question, and after all, though I 
was now an old man, yet I w^as but a young doctor, and ill enough 
qualified for a casuist, or a solver of difficulties. And at first I 
could not tell what to say, so I pretended not to hear him, and asked 
him what he said ? But he was too earnest for an answer to forget 
his question ; so that he rexDeated it in the very same broken woixts, 
as above. By this time I had recovered myself a little, and I said, 
God will at last punish him severely; luHs reserved for the judgment, 
and is to be cast into tlie bottomless pit, to dwell witli everlasting fire. 
This did not satisfy Friday, but he returns upon me, repeating my 
words, Beserve, at last, me no understand ; but, wliy not kill the 
devil now, not kill great ago? You may as well ask me, said I, why 
God does not kill ycui and I, wfficn we do wicked things here that 
offinid Him. W(j are preserved to repent and be pardoned, lie muses 
a while at this ; Well, well, says he, mighty affectionately, that well ; 
so you, I, devil, all wicked, all preseive, repent, God pardon all. 
Here I was run down again by him to the last degree, and it was a 
testimony to mo, how the mere notions of nature, though they will 
guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of a 
worship or homage due to the Supreme Being, of God as the conse- 
quence of our nature, yet nothing but Divine revelation can form the 
knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of a redemption purchased for us, of 
a Mediator of the New Covenant, and of an Intercessor, ab the foot- 
stool of God’s throne ; I say, nothing but a revelation from heaven 
can form these in the soul ; and that therefore the Gospel of our 
and Saviour Jesus Christ — I mean, the Word of God, and the 
of God promised for the guide and sanctifier of His j)eoplc, are the 
absolutely necessary instructors of the souls of men, in the saving 
knowledge of God, and the means of salvation. 

I therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my 



1 82 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


ma.n, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden occasion of going out; 
then sending him for something a good way off, I seriously prayed to 
God that He would enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage, 
assisting by His Spirit the heart of the poor ignorant creature, to 
receive the light of the knowledge of God in Christ, reconciling him 
to Himself, and would guide me to speak so to him from the Word 
of God, as his conscience might be convinced, his eyes opened, and 
his soul saved. When he came again to me, I entered into a long 
discourse with him upon the subject of the redemption of man by the 
Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine of the Gospel preached 
from heaven, viz., of repentance tow^ards God, and faith in our 
blessed Lord Jesus. I then explained to him, as well as I could, why 
our blessed Eedeemer took not on him the nature of angels, but the 
seed of Abraham, and how for that reason the fallen angels had no 
share in the redemption ; that He came only to the lost sheep of the 
House of Israel, and the like. 

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge, in all the 
methods I took for tliis poor creature’s instruction, and must acknow- 
ledge what I believe all that act upon the same principle will find, 
tliat in laying things opcui to Ihm, I really informed and instructed 
myself in many things, that either I did not know, or had not fully 
considered before, but which occurred naturally to my mind, upon 
liiy searching into Ihcm, for the information of this poor savage ; and 
1 had more affection in my inquiry after things upon this occasion, 
than ever I felt })eforo ; so tliat whether this pOvir wild wretch was 
the better for me, or no, 1 had great reason to be thfinkful that ever 
lie came to me. My grief set lighter upon me, my habitation grew 
comfoL’table io me beyond measure; and when I rellected that in 
this solitary life whiclx 1 liad been confined to, T had not only been 
moved myself to look up to heaven, and to seek to the Hand that 
had brought me there ; but was now to be made an instrument under 
Ih'ovidence to save the life, and, for aught I knew, the soul of a poor 
savage, and bring him to the true knowledge of religion, and of the 
Christian doctrine, that he might knov/ Christ Jesus, to know whom 
is life eternal ; 1 say, when I reflected upon all these things, a secret 
joy run tlirougii every part of my sonl, and I frequeiitlj^ rejoiced that 
ever I was brought to this place, which I had so often thought the 
most dreadful of all afflictions that could possibly have befallen 
me. 

In this tharikful frame I continued all the remainder of my time, 
and the conversation which employed the hours between Friday and 
I, was such, as made the three years which we lived there together 
perfectly and completely happy, if any such thing as complete happi- 
ness can be found in a sublunary state. The savage was now a 
good Christian, a much better than I; though I have reason to hope, 
and bless God for it, that we were equally penitent, and comforted 
restored penitents ; we had here the Word of God to read, and no 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 183 

farther olf from His Sjoirit to instruct, than if we had been in 
England. 

I always applied myself in reading the Scripture, to let him know, 
as well as I could, the meaning of what I read ; and he again, by liis 
serious inquiries and questions, made me, as I said before, a much better 
scholar in the Scripture knowledge, than I should ever have been by 
my own private mere reading. Another thing I cannot refrain from 
observing here also from experience, in this retired part of iny life, 
viz., how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is, that the know- 
ledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation by Christ Jesus, is so 
plainly laid down in the Word of God ; so easy to be received and 
understood. That as tlie bare reading tlie Scripture made me capable 
of understanding enough of my duty, to carry me directly on to the 
great work of sincere repentance for my sins, and laying hold of a 
Saviour for life and salvation, to a stated refoj’ination in practice, and 
obedience' to all God’s commands, and this witliout any teacher or 
instructor — I mean, human; so the same plain instruction sufficiently 
served to the enlightening this savage creature, and bringing him to 
be such a Cdiristian, as I have known few equal to him in my life. 

As to all the disputes, wranglings, stj'ife, and contention, which 
has hap})encd in the world about religion, whether niceties in 
doctj’ines, or scheiiies of church govei’iiment, lluiy wa,n'e all perfectly 
useless to us ; as for auglit T can yet see, they liave heeji to all the 
H‘st of the world. We had the sure guide to ]iea\'en, ^iz., the Word 
of God ; and W'e liad, hlossi'd be God, comfortable views of tJie Spirit 
of God teaching and instructing us by Flis Woi'd, heading us into all 
truth, and making us both wnlljiig and ol)odient to tlui instruction of 
llis Word ; and I cannot see the least use that the greatest know^- 
ledf’-e of the disputed i)oints in religioji wdiich liavc made such con- 
fusions ill the woidd would have been to us, if we could iiavc obtaimul 
it ; but T must go on wuth the liistorical part of things, and tiiko 
every part in its order. 

After Friday and I became more intimately ac([uainted, and that 
he could understand almost all I said to him, and speak fluently, 
though in broken English, to mo, I acquainted him with my own 
story, or at least so much of it as related to my coming into tlie 
place, how I had lived there, and liow^ king. I let liim into the 
mystery, for such it was to him, of gnnpowulcr and bullet, and taught 
him how to shoot. I gave him a knife, wdiich he was wqndoi’fully 
delighted with, and I made him a belt, with a frog hanging to it, 
such as ill England we wear hangers in ; and in the frog, instead ot 
a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which w’as not only as good a 
weapon in some cases, but much more useful upon other occ^asions. 

I described to him the country of Europe, and particularly England, 
which I came from ; how we lived, how wo worshi2)ped God, how we 
behaved to one another; and liow we traded in ships to all parts of 
the world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I had been 



184 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


on board of, and showed him, as near as I could, the place where she 
lay ; but she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone. 

I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we 
escaped, and winch I could not stir with my whole strength then, 
but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, 
Friday stood musing a great while, and said nothing ; I asked him 
what it was he studied upon; at last says he, Me see such boat like 
come to place at my nation. 

I did not understand him a good while ; but at last, when I had 
examined farther into it, I understood by him, that a boat, such as 
that had been, came on shore upon the country where he lived ; that 
is, as he explained it, was driven thither by stress of weather. I 
presently imagined that some European ship must have been cast 
away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose, and drive 
ashore ; but was so dull, that I never once thought of men making 
escape from a wreck thither, much less whence they might come ; so 
I only inquired after a description of the boat. 

Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought me 
better to understand him, when he added with some warmth. We 
save the white mans from drowai. Then I presently asked him, if 
there was any white mans, as ho called them, in the boat ? Yes, he 
said, the boat full wdiite mans. I asked him how many ; he told 
upo!i his fingers seventeen. I asked him then what become of them? 
he told me. They live, they dw*ell at my nation. 

This put new thoughts into my head; for 1 presently imagined, 
that these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast 
a^vay in sight of my island, as I no\v call it ; and who after the ship 
was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved 
themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that wild shore 
among the savages. 

Upon this, I inquired of him more critically, what was become of 
them ? He assured me they lived still there ; that they had been 
there about four years ; that the savages let them alone, and gave 
them victuals to live. I asked him, how it came to pass they did not 
kill them and eat them? He said. No, they make brother with* 
them ; that is, as I understood him, a truce. And then he added. 
They no eat mans but when make the war fight ; tliat is to say, they 
never eat any men but such as come to fight with them, and arc 
taken in battle. 

It was after this some considerable time, that being upon the top 
of the hill, at the east side of the island, from whence, as I have said, 
I had in a clear day discovered the main, or continent of America, 
Friday, the weather being very serene, looks very earnestly towards 
the mainland, and in a kind of surprise, falls a jumping and dancing, 
and calls out to me, for I was at some distance from him. I asked 
him, what was the matter ? Oh joy ! says he, oh glad ! there see 
my country, there my nation ! 





THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 187 

I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure>ppeared in his face, 
and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a stran^^^e 
eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own country again ; and 
this observation of mine put a great many thoughts into me, which 
made me at first not so easy about my new man Friday as I was 
before ; and I made no doubt but that if Friday could get back to 
his own nation again, he would not only forget all his religion, but 
all his obligation to me ; and would be forward enough to give his 
countrymen an account of me, and come back perhaps with a hundred 
or two of them, and make a feast upon me, at which he might be as 
merry as he used to be with those of his enemies, when they were 
taken in war. 

But I wronged the poor honest creature very much, for which I 
was very sorry afterwards. However, as my jealousy increased, and 
held me some weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so 
familiar and kind to him as before ; in which I was certainly in the 
wrong too, the honest grateful creature having no thouglit about it, 
but 'wliat consisted with tlic best principles, both as a religious 
Christian, and as a grateful friend, as ajipeared afterwards to my full 
satisfaction. 

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may bo sure I w^as every 
day pumping bim to see if be would discover any of the new thoughts 
which I suspected w^ere in him ; but I found everything ho said wms 
so honest, and so innocent, that I could find iK'tljing to nourish niy 
sus^iicion ; and in spite of all my uneasiness lie made me at last 
entirely his own again, nor did lie in the least j^ercoive that I was 
uneasy, and tlierefoi-c i could not susjiect him of deceit. 

One day walking np the same hill, but the vreather being hazy at 
sea, so that we could not sec the continent, I called to him, and said, 
Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own country, yoiir own 
nation ? Yes, he said, he be much oh glad to be at his own nation. 
What would you do there? said I ; would you turn wild again, eat 
men’s flesh again, and be a savage as you were before? He looked 
full of concern, and shaking his head said, No, no, Friday tell them 
to live good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-bread, 
cattle-flesh, milk, no eat man again. Why then, said I to him, they 
will kill you. He looked grave at that, and then said, No, tliey no 
kill me, they willing love learn. He meant by this, they w^ould be 
willing to learn. He added, they learnt much of the bearded mans 
that come in the boat. Then I asked him if he would go back to 
them ? He smiled at that, and told me he could not swim so far. I 
told him I would make a canoe for him. Ho told me he would go, if 
I would go with him. I go ! says I, why, they will eat me if I come 
there. No, no, says he, me make they no eat you ; me make they 
much love you. He meant he would tell them how I had killed his 
enemies, and saved his life, and so he would make them love me ; 
then he told me, as well as he could, how kind they were to seventeen 



i88 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


white men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came on shore 
there in distress. 

From this time I confess I had a mind to venture over, and see if 
I could possibly join with these bearded men, who I made no doubt 
were Spaniards or Portuguese ; not doubting but if I could we might 
find some method to escape from thence, being upon the continent, 
and a good company together ; better than I could from an island 
forty miles off the shore, and alone without help. So after some days 
I took Friday to work again, by way of discourse, and told him I 
would give him a boat to go back to his own nation ; and accordingly 
I carried him to my frigate which lay on the other side of the island, 
and having cleared it of water, for I always kept it sunk in the 
water, I brought it out, showed it him, and we both went into it. 

I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing it, would 
make it go almost as swift and fast again as I could ; so when he 
was in, I said to him, Y/ell, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation? 
He looked very dull at my saying so, which it seems was because he 
thought the boat too small to go so far. I told him then I had a 
bigger ; so the next day I went to the place where the first boat lay 
which I had made, but which I could not get into water. Ho said 
that was big enough ; but then as I had taken no care of it, and it 
had lain two or three-and-twenty years there, the sun had split and 
dried it, so that it was in a manner rotten. Friday told me such a boat 
would do very well, and would carry much enough vittle, drink, 
bread ; that was his way of talking. 

Upon the whole, I was by tliis time so fixed upon my design of 
going over with him to the continent, that I told him we would go 
and make one as big as that, and he should go home in it. He 
answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked him 
what was the matter with him? He asked me again thus: Why, 
you angry mad with Friday, what me done? I asked him what he 
meant ; I told him I w^as not angry w-ith him at all. No angry ! no 
angry ! says he, repeating the words several times. Why send 
Friday home away to my nation? Why (says I), Friday, did you 
not say you wished you were there ? Yes, yes, says he, wish we 
both there, no wish Friday there, no master there. In a word, he 
would not think of going there without me ; I go there 1 Friday (says 
I), what shall I do there? He turned very quick upon me at this. 
You do gi'eat deal much good, says he ; you teach wild mans be good 
sober tame mans ; you tell them know God, pray God, and live new 
life. Alas I Friday (says I), thou kiiowest not what thou sayest; I 
am but an ignorant man myself. Yes, yes, says he, you teachee me 
good, you teachee them good. No, no, Friday (says I), you shall go 
without me ; leave me here to live by myself, as I did before. He 
looked confused again at that word, and running to one of the 
hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, comes and 
gives it me. What must I do with this ? says I to him. You take. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. i8y 

kill Friday, says he. What must I kill you for ? said I again. Ho 
returns very quick, What you send Friday away for ? Take, kill 
Friday, no send Friday away. This he siDokc so earnestly, that I 
saw tears stand in his eyes. In a word, I so ])lainly discovered the 
utmost affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that I 
told him then, and often after, that I would never send him away 
from me, if he w^as willing to stay with me. 

Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a settled affection 
to me, and that nothing should part him from me, so I found all the 
foundation of his desire to go to his own country, was laid in his 
ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of my doing them good; 
a thing which as I had no notion of myself, so 1 had not the least 
thought, or intention, or desire of undertaking it. But still I found 
a strong inclination to my attempting an escape as above, founded on 



BUILDINQ THE BOAT. 

the supposition gathered from the discourse, viz., that there were 
seventeen bearded men there; and therefore, without aii}^ inorc delay, 
I went to work with Friday to find out a great tree proper to fell, and 
make a large periagua or canoe to undertake the voyage. Theie 
were trees enough in the island to have built a little fieet, )iot of 
periaguas and canoes, but even of good large vessels. But the 
main thing I looked at, was to get one so near the 'water tliat we 
might launch it when it was made, to avoid the mistake I coininittcd 
at first. 

At last, Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found he knew much 
better than I what kind of wood was fittest for it ; nor can i tell to 
this day what wood to call the tree we cut down, except that it 
was very like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the 
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same colour and sme . 
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out to ma te 
it for a boat. But I showed him how rather to cut it out with tools 
which, after I had showed him how to use, he did very han i y, aiK 
in about a month’s hard labour we finished it, and made it ver) 



190 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


handsome, especially when wnth our axes, wdiich I showed him how 
to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of a 
boat ; after this, however, it cost us near a fortnight’s time to get 
her along, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers into the water. 
But when she was in, she would have carried twenty men with great 
ease. 



UUUbOK AND FKII»AV LAUNCH THE li.)AT. 


When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it amazed 
me to see with what dexterity and how swift my man Friday would 
manage her, turn her, and paddle her along, so I asked him if he 
would go, and if we might venture over in her; Yes, he said, he venture 
over in her very well, though great blow wind. However, I had a 
farther design that he knew nothing of, and that was to make a mast 
and sail and to fit her with an anchor and cable : as to a mast, that 
was easy enough to get ; so I pitched upon a straight young cedar- 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 191 


tree, which I found near the place, and wliich bliere was great plenty 
of in the island, and I sot Friday to work to cut it down, and gave 
him directions how to shape and order it. But as to the sail, that 
was my particular care ; I knew I had old sails, or rather pieces of 
old sails enough ; but as I had had them now six-and-twenty years 
by me, and had not been very careful to preserve them, not imagining 
that I should ever have this kind of use for them, T did not doubt hut 
they were all rotten, and indeed most ol them w^'ra so ; however, I 



Tin: I IHST V<)\AGE. 


found two pieces which appeared pretty good, and with thebc I went 
to work, and with a great deal of pains, and awkward tedious Stilc 1 
ing (you may be sure) for want of needles, 1 at lengtli made a three- 
cornered ugly thing, like what we call in England a shoulder ot 
mutton sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a little shoit sjui a 
the top, such as usually our ship's long-boats sajl with, and ^ ^ 

best knew how to manage; because it was sucii a one as la 
boat in which I made my escape from Baibary, as related m the 

first part of my story. 



192 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


I was near two months performing this last work, viz., rigging and 
fitting my mast and sails ; for J finished them very complete, making 
a small stay, and a sail, or foresail to it, to assist, if we should turn 
to windward ; and which was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the 
stern of her, to steer with ; and though I w^as but a bungling ship- 
wright, yet as I knew the usefulness, and even necessity of such a 
thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do it, that at last I 
brought it to pass ; though considering the many dull contrivances I 
had for it that failed, I think it cost me almost as much labour as 
making the boat. 

After all this was done too, I had my man Eriday to teach as to 
what belonged to the navigation of my boat ; for though ho knew very 
well how to paddle a canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail 
and a rudder ; and was the most amazed when he saw me work the 
boat to and again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail jibbed, 
and filled this way or that way, as the course we sailed changed ; I 
say, when he saw this, he stood like one astonished and amazed. 
However, with a little use, I made all these things familiar to him ; 
and lie became an expert sailor, except that as to the compass, I 
could make him understand very little of that. On the other hand, 
as there was very little cloudy weather, and seldom or never any fogs 
in those ])arts, there was the less occasion for a compass, seeing the 
stars were always to be seen by night, and the shore by day, except 
in the rainy seasons, and then nobody cared to stir abroad, either by 
land or sea. 

I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my cap- 
tivity in this place ; though the three last years that I had this crea- 
ture with me ought rather to be left out of the account, my habita- 
tion beijig quite of another kind than in all the rest of the time. I 
kept the anniversary of my landing here with the same thankfulness 
to God for His mercies as at first ; and if I had such cause of 
acknowledgment at first, I had much more so now, having such 
additional testimonies of the care of Providence over me, and the 
great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily delivered ; for I 
had an invincible imxiression upon my thoughts, that my deliverance 
was at hand, and that I should not be another year in this place. 
However, I went on with my husbandry, digging, planting, fencing, 
as usual ; I gathered and cured my grapes, and did every necessary 
thing as before. 

The rainy season w^as in the meantime upon me, when I kept more 
within doors than at other times ; so I had stowed our new vessel 
as secure as we could, bringing her up into the creek, where, as I 
said in the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship, and hauling 
her up to the shore, at high-w^ater mark, I made my man Friday dig 
a little dock, just big enough to hold her, and just deep enough to 
give her water enough to float in ; and then when the tide was out, 
we made a strong dam cross the end of it, to keep the water out ; 


THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 193 

and so she lay dry, as to the tide from the sea ; and to keep the rain 
off, we laid a great many boughs of trees, so thick, that she was as 
well thatched as a house ; and thus we waited for the months of 
Nov^ember and December, in which I designed to make my adventure. 

When the settled season began to come in, as the thought of my 
design returned with the fair weather, I was preparing daily for the 
voyage ; and the first thing I did, was to lay by a certain quantity 
of provisions, being the stores for our voyage ; and intended in a week 
or a fortnight’s time to open the dock, and launch out our boat. I 
was busy one morning upon sometliing of this kind, when I called 
to Friday, and bid liim go to the sea-shore, and see if lie could find 
a turtle, or tortoise, a thing w^liicli we generally got twice a week, for 
the sake of the eggs, as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long 
gone, when he came running back, and flew over my outer wall, or 
fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feet 
on; and before I had time to speak to him, he cries out to me, O 
master ! O master ! O sorrow ! O bad. What’s the matter, Fiiday ? 
says 1. O yonder, tliere, says ho, one, twm, tliree canoe ! one, two, 
throe ! F)y his way of speaking, I concluded there were six ; but on 
inquiry, I found it was but three. Well, Friday, says I, do not be 
frighted ; so I heartened liim up as well as I could. However, I saw 
the poor follow was most terribly scared ; for nothing ran in his licad 
but that they were come to look for him, and would cut him in 
pieces, and eat him ; and the poor fellow trembled so, tliat I scarce 
knew what to do with him. 1 comforted him as well as I could, and 
told him I was in as much danger as he, and that timy would eat mo 
as well as him ; but, says I, Friday, we must resolve to fight them ; 
can you fight, Friday? IMe shoot, says he, but there come many 
great number. No matter for that, said I again, our guns will fright 
theiii that we do not kill ; so J asked him whether, if I resolved to 
defend him, he would defend me, and stand by me, and do just as T 
bid him? lie said, Me die, when you hid die, master; so I went 
and fetched a good dram of rum, and gave him ; for I had been so 
good a husbaml of my rnin, that 1 had a great deal left. When he 
had drank it, I made him take the two fowling-pieces, which we 
always carried, and load tliem with large swan-shot, as big as small 
pistol bullets ; then I took four muskets, and loaded them witli two 
slags, and five small bullets each ; and my tw^o pistols I loaded with 
a brace of bullets each ; I hung my great sword as usual, naked by 
my side, and gave Friday liis batebet. 

When I had thus pre]iared myself, T took my pcrsi^cctive-glass, 
and went up to the side of the hill, to see w^hat I could discover ; and 
I found quickly, by my glass, that there w'ere one-and-twrenty savages, 
three prisoners, and three canoes ; and that their whole business 
seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon these three hum^ 
bodies (a barbarous feast indeed), but nothing more than as I had ob- 
served was usual with them. 


13 



194 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

I observed also, that they were landed not wliere they had done 
when Friday made his escape ; but nearer to my creek, wliere the 
shore was low, and where a thick wood came close almost down to 
the sea. This, with the abhorrence of tbe inhuman eri'aud those 
wretches came about, filled me with such indignation, that I came 
down again to Fi’iday, and told him I was resolved to go down to 
them, and kill them all ; and asked him if he would stand by me? 
He was now gotten over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised, 
with the dram I had given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, 
as before, he would die, when I bid die. 

In this fit of fury, 1 took first and divided the arms which I had 
charged, as before, between us. I gave Friday one pistol to stick in 
his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder ; and 1 took one pistol, 
and the other three myself ; and in this posture wo marched out. I 
took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a large 
bag, with more powder and bullets ; and as to orders, I charged him 
to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do anything, 
till I bid him; and in the meantime, not to speak a word. In this 
posture I fetched a compass to my right hand, of near a mile, as well 
to get over the creek, as to get into the wood ; so that I might come 
within sliot of them, before I should be discovered, which T had seen 
by my glass it was easy to do. 

While I was making this march, my former tlioughts returning, I 
began to abate my resolution ; I do not mean, that I entertained 
any fear of their number ; for as they were naked, unarmed wretclies, 
it is certain I was superior to them ; nay, though I had been alone ; 
but it occurred to my thoughts, what call ? what occasion ? much 
less, what necessity I w’as in to go and dip my hands in blood, to 
attack people, who had neither done, or intended me any wrong ? 
Who as to me were innocent, and whose barbarous customs were 
their own disaster, being in them a token indeed of God’s having 
left them, with the other nations of that part of the world, to such 
stupidity, and to such inhuman courses ; but did not call me to take 
upon me to be a judge of their actions, much less an executioner of 
His justice ; that whenever Ho thought fit, he vrould take the cause 
into His own hands, and by national veugcanco punish them as a 
people, for national crimes ; but that in the meantime, it was none 
of my business ; that it was true, Friday might justify it, because ho 
was a declared enemy, and in a state of war with those very particular 
people, and it was lawful for him to attack them ; but I could not 
say the same with respect to me. These things were so warmly 
pressed upon my thoughts, all the way as I went, that I resolved I 
would only go and place myself near them, that I might observe 
their barbarous feast, and that I would act then as God should 
direct ; but that unless something offered that was more a call to me 
than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them. 

With this resolution I entered the wood, and with all possible 




COIiSTERJfATIOJr Ol SAV'AGES OK FEEUKG MLSKET SHOTS,— P, 197i 


THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 197 

wariness and silence, Friday following close at my heels, I marched 
till I came to the skirt of the wood, on the side which w^as next to 
them ; only that one corner of the wood lay between me and tliem ; 
here I called softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree, wliich 
was just at the corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and 
bring me word if he could see there j)l^^inly what they were doing ; 
ho did so, and came immediately back to me, and told me they might 
be plainly viewed there ; that they were all about their fire, eating 
the flesh of one of their prisoners ; and that another lay bound upon 
the sand, a little from them, which he said they would kill next, and 
which fired all the very soul within me ; he told me it was not one 
of their nation ; but one of the bearded men, who ho had told me of, 
that came to their country in the boat ; I was filled with horror at 
the very naming the white-bearded man, and going to the tree, I saw 
plainly by my glass, a white man who lay upon the beach of the sea, 
with his hands and his feet tied, with flags, or things like rushes ; 
and that he was an European, and had clothes on. 

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about fifty 
yards nearer to them than the place where I was, which by going a 
little way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and that then 
I should be within half shot of them ; so I withheld my passion, 
though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree, and going back 
about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, wliich held all the 
way, till I came to the other tree ; and then I came to a little rising 
ground, which gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about 
eighty yards. 

I had now not a moment to lose ; for nineteen of the dreadful 
wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled together, and had 
just sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian, and bring him 
perhaps limb by limb to their fire, and they were stooped down to 
untie the bands, at his feet. I turned to Friday : Now, Friday, said 
I, do as I bid thee. Friday said he would. Then, Friday, says I, 
do exactly as you sec me do, fail in nothing. So I set down one of 
the muskets, and the fowling-piece, upon the ground, and Friday did 
the like by his ; and with the other musket, I took my aim at the 
savages, bidding him do the like ; then asking him, if he was ready? 
ho said. Yes. Then fire at them, said I ; and the same moment I 
fired also. 

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that 
he shot, he killed tw’^o of them, and wounded three more ; and on 
my side, I killed one, and wounded two. They were, you may be 
sure, in a dreadful consternation ; and all of them, who were not 
hurt, jumped up upon their feet, but did not immediately know 
which way to run, or which way to look ; for they know not from 
whence their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me, 
that as I had bid him, he might observe what I did ; so as soon as 
the first shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took up tno 



198 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


fowling-piece, and Friday did the like ; lie saw me cock and present, 
lie did the same again ; Are you ready, Friday? said I ; Yes, says 
he ; Let fly then, says 1, in the name of God, and with that I fired 
again among the amazed wretches, and so did Friday ; and as our 



pieces were now loaded with what I called swan-shot, or small pistol 
bullets, we found only two drop ; but so many were wounded, that 
they ran about yelling, and screaming, like mad creatures, all bloody, 
and miserably wounded, most of them ; whereof three more fell 
quickly after, though not quite dead. 



TFIE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 199 

No^v, Friday, says I, laying down the discharged pieces, and taking 
lip tlie musket, which was yet loaded; follow me, says I, which he 
did, with a great deal of courage, upon which I rusliod out of the 
wood, and showed myself, and hMday close at my foot ; as soon as I 
perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as 1 could, and bade Friday 
do so too; and running as fast as I could, which by the way, was 
not very fast, being laden with arms as I was, I made directly 
towards tlic poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach, 
or shore, between the place where they sat, and the sea ; the two 
butcliers who were just going to work with him, had left him, at the 
surprise of our first lire, and lied in a terrible fright, to the sea-side, 
and had jumped into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the 
same w^ay ; 1 turned to Friday, and bid him step forwards, and fire 
at them ; he understood me immediately, and running about forty 
yards, to be near them, he shot at them, and 1 thought he liad killed 
them all ; for I saw them all fall of a heap into the boat ; though I 
saw tw’o of them up again quickly. However, he killed two of them, 
and wounded the third ; so that he lay down in the bottom of the 
boat, as if ho had been dead. 

While my man Friday fired at him, I pulled out my knife, and 
cut the flags that bound the poor victim, and loosing his hands, and 
feet, I lifted him up, and asked liim in the Portuguese tongue, what 
ho was ? He answered in Latin, Christiaiius ; but was so weak and 
faint, that he could scarce stand or speak; I took my bottle out of 
my pocket, and gave it him, making signs that he should drink, 
which he did ; and I gave him a piece of bread, wliicli he ate ; then 
I asked him, what countryman he was? and he said Espagnol; 
and being a little recovered, let me know by all the signs ho could 
])Ossibly make, how much he was in my debt for his deliverance ; 
Seignior, said I, with as much Spanish as I could make up, we will 
talk afterwards ; but wo must light now ; if you have any strength 
loft, take tliis pistol, and sword, and lay about you; he took them 
very thankfully, and no sooner had he the arms in his hands, hut as 
if they had put new vigour into him, he flew upon his murderers, 
like a fury, and had cut two of them in pieces, in an instant ; for the 
truth is, as the whole was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures 
were so much frighted with the noise of our pieces, that they fell 
down for mere amazement, and fear ; and had no more power to 
attempt their own escape, than their flesh had to resist our shot ; 
and that was the case of those five that Friday shot at in the boat ; 
for as three of them fell with the hurt they received, so the other two 
fell with the fright. 

I kept my piece in my hand still, without firing, being willing to 
keep my charge ready ; because I had given the Si3aniard iny pistol, 
and sword ; so I called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree, 
from whence we first fired, and fetch the arms whicii lay there, that 
had been discharged, which he did with great swiftness ; and then 



200 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load all the rest again, 
and bade them come to me when t]iey wanted. While I was loading 
these pieces, there happened a fierce engagement between the 
Spaniard, and one of the savages, who made at him with one of 
their great w'ooden swords, the same weapon that was to have killed 
him before, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as 
bold, and as brave as could be imagined, though weak, liad fought 
this Indian a good while, and had cut him two great wounds on his 
head ; but the savage being a stout lusty fellow, closing in with him, 
had thrown him down (being faint) and was wringing my sword out 
of his hand, when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting 
the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through 
the body, and killed him upon the spot ; before I, who was running 
to help him, could come near him. 

Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying wretches 
with no weapon in his hand, but his hatchet ; and with that he 
despatched those three, who, as I said before, were wounded at first 
and fallen, and all the rest ho could come up with, and the Spaniard 
coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling-pieces, with 
which he pursued two of the savages, and wounded them both ; but 
as he was not able to run, they both got from him into the wood, 
where Friday pursued them, and killed one of them ; but the other 
was too nimble for him, and though he was wounded, yet liad 
plunged himself into the sea, and swam with all his might olf to those 
two who were left in the canoe, which three in the canoe, with one 
wounded, who we know not whether he died or no, were all that 
escaped our hands of one-and- twenty. The account of the rest is as 
follows ; 

3 killed at our first shot from the tree, 

2 killed at the next shot. 

2 killed by Friday in the boat. 

2 killed by ditto, of those at first wounded, 

1 killed by ditto, in the wood. 

3 killed by the Spaniard. 

4 killed, being found dropped here and there of their wounds, 

killed by Friday in his chase of them. 

4 escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded if not dead, 

21 in all. 

Those that were in the canoe, worked hard to get out of gun-shot ; 
and though Friday made two or three shots at them, I did not find 
that he hit any of them. Friday would fain have had me take one 
of their canoes, and pursue them ; and indeed I was very anxious 
about their escape, lest carrying the news home to their people, they 
should come back perhaps with two or three hundred of their canoes, 









THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 201 


and devour us^ by mere multitude ; so I consented to pursue them by 
sea, and running to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday 
follow me ; but when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to find 
another poor creature lie there alive, bound hand and foot, as the 
Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not 
knowing what the matter was ; for he had not been able to look up 
over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard, neck and heels, and 
had been tied so long, that he had really but little life in him. 

I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, which they had 
bound him with, and would have helped him up ; but he could not 
stand, or speak, but groaned most piteously, believing it seems still 
tliat he was only unbound in order to be killed. 

When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to liim, and tell him 
of his deliverance, and pulling out my bottle, made him give the 



riUDAY IJIS k'AlllBR. 


poor wretch a dram, wliich, with the news of his being delivered, 
revived him, and he sat up in the boat ; but when Friday came to 
hear him speak, and look in his face, it would have moved any one to 
tears, to have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged 
him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumi)ed about, danced, sung, then cried 
again, wrung his hands, beat liis own face, and head, and then sung, 
and jumped about again, like a distracted creature. It was a good 
while before I could make him speak to me, or tell me what was the 
matter ; but when he came a little to himself, he told me, that it was 
his father. 

It is not easy for me to express how it moved mo to see what 
ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor savage, at the 
sight of his father, and of his being delivered fi'oni nor in- 

deed can I describe half the extravagances of his affection after 
this ; for he went into the boat, and out of the boat a great many 


202 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


times. Wlien he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open 
his breast, and hold his father’s head close to his bosom, half an 
hour together, to nourish it ; then he took his arms and ankles, which 
were numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them 
with his hands ; and I perceiving what the case was, gave him some 
rum out of my bottle, to rub them with, which did them a great deal 
of good. 

This action xnit an end to our jiursuit of the canoe, with the other 
savages, who were now gotten almost out of sight ; audit was happy 
for us that we did not ; for it blew so hard within two hours after, 
and before they could be gotten a quarter of their way, and continued 
blowing so hard all night, and that from tlie north-west which was 
against them, that I could not sux>pose their boat could live, or that 
they ever reached to their own coast. 

But to I'cturii to Friday ; he was so busy about his father that I 
could not find in my heart to take him off for some time. But after 
I thought ho could leave him a little, I called him to me, and he 
came jumxhng and laughing, and j)l^ased in the highest extreme. 
Then I asked him if he had given his father any bread ? He shook 
his liead, and said, None : ugly dog eat all iij) self ; so I gave him a 
cake of bread out of a little jjouch 1 carried on purpose ; I also gave 
him a dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but carried it to 
his father. I Jiad in my x)Ocket also tw'o or three bunches of my 
raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father. He had no 
sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the 
boat, and run away as if he had been bewitched, he ran at such a 
rate ; for he w^as the swiftest fellow of his foot that ever I saw ; I 
say, he ran at such a rate, that lie was out of sight, as it w’'ere, in an 
instant; and though I called, and hallooed too, after him, it was all 
one, away he wmnt, and in a quarter of an hour I saw him come 
back again, though not so fast as he w^ent ; and as he came nearer, I 
found his pace w^as slacker, because he had something in his hand. 

When ho came up to me, I found lie had boon quite home for an 
earthen jug or pot to bring his father some fresh water, and that he 
had got two more cakes, or loaves of bread. The bread he gave me, 
but the water he carried to his father. However, as I was very 
thirsty too, I took a little su^) of it. Tliis water revived his father 
more than all the rum or spirits I had given him ; for he was just 
fainting with thirst. 

When his father had drank, I called to him to know if there was 
any water left. He said yes ; and I bade him give it to the poor 
Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his father ; and I sent 
one of the cakes that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was 
indeed very weak, and w^as rexiosiug himself upon a green place 
under the shade of a tree ; and whose limbs were also very stiff, and 
very much swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with. 
When I saw that upon Friday's coming to him with the water, he 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 203 

sat up and drank, and took tho bread, and bc;^^‘iii to eat, 1 went to 
him, and gave him a handful of raisins; he looked up in my lace 
with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness tliat could appear 
in any countenance ; but was so weak, notwitlistandiiig he liad so 
exerted himself in the light, that he could not stand up upon his feet, 
lie tried to do it two or three times, but was really not able, his 
ankles were so swelled and so painful to him; so i bade him sit still, 
and caused h'riday to rub his ankles, and bathe them with rum, as 
lie had done his father's. 

I observed the poor affectionate creature every two minutes, or 
perhai:)S less, all the while he was here, turned his head about, to sc‘(^ 
if his father was in the same ^dace and posture, as ho left him sitting, 
and at last he found he was not to be seen ; at which he started up, 
and, without speaking a word, flew vith that swiftness to him, thnt 
one could scarce percei\o his feet to touch the ground as ho went. 
But when he came, he only found he had laid himself down to ease 
his limbs ; so Friday came back to me presently, and I tlien spoke 
to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up if ho could, and lead him 
to the boat, and tlion he should carry him to our dwelling, where 1 
would take care of him. But Friday, a lusty strong follow, took the 
Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried him away to tJie boat, 
and set hijji down softly upon the side or gunnel of tl)e canoe, with 
his feet in the inside of it, and then lifted him quite in, and set him 
close to his father, and presently stepping out again, launched the 
boat off, and paddled it along the shore faster than 1 could walk, 
though the wind blow pretty hard too; so he brought them both safe 
into our cre^k; and leaving them in tho boat, runs away to fetch tho 
other canoe. As he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him 
whither he went ; he told me, Go fetch more boat. So away he went 
like the wind ; for sure never man or liorso run like liim, and ho had 
the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land ; 
so he wafted me over, and then went to help our new guests out ol 
the boat, which he did ; but they were neither of them able to walk, 
60 that poor Friday knew not what to do. 

To remedy this, I went to work in niy thouglit ; and calling to 
Friday to bid them to sit down on the bank while ho came to me, I 
soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and 
I carried them up both together upon it between us. But wlien we 
got them to the outside of our wall or fortification, we were at a 
worse loss than before, for it was impossible to got them over ; and 
I was resolved not to break it down. So I set to work again , and 
Friday and 1, in about two hours’ time, made a very handsome tent, 
covered with old sails, and above that with bouglis of trees, being m 
the space without our outward fence, and between that and tlio 
grove of young wood which I had planted. And here we made them 
two beds of such things as 1 bad, viz., of good rice- straw, \vi \ 
blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to cover them on eacli be( . 



204 the life and adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


My island was now peopled, and T thought myself very rich in 
subjects ; and it was a merry reflection which I frequently made, 
how like a king I looked. First of all, the wliole country was my 
own mere property ; so that T liad an undoubted right of dominion. 
2ndly, My people were perfectly subjected. I w^as absolute lord and 
lawgiver ; they all owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay down 
their lives, if there liad been occasion of it, for me. It was remark- 
able too, we liad but tliree subjects, and they were of three different 
religions. My man Friday was a Protestant, his father was a Pagan 
and a cannibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist. However, I allowed 
liberty of conscience throughout my dominions. But this is by the way. 

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners, and given 
them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began to think of 
making some provision for them. And the first tiling I did, I ordered 
Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my 
particular flock, to be killed, when I cut off the hinder quarter, and 
chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and 
stewing, and made them a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and 
broth, having put some barley and rice also into the broth ; and as I 
cooked it without doors, for I made no fire within my inner wall, so 
I carried it all into the ne\v tent ; and having set a table there for 
them, I sat down and cat my own dinner also with them, and, as 
well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them ; Friday being 
my interpreter, especially to his father, and indeed to the Spaniard 
too ; for the Spaniard spoke the language of the savages pretty well. 

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take one 
of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other firearms, 
which for want of time ’we had left upon the place of battle, and the 
next day I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages, 
which lay open to the sun, and would presently be offensive ; and I 
also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, 
which 1 knew were pretty much, and which I could not think of doing 
myself ; nay, I could not bear to see them, if I went that way. All 
which he punctually performed, and defaced the very appearance of 
the savages being there; so that when I wont again, I could scarce 
know where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing 
to the place. 

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new 
subjects ; and first I set Friday to inquire of his father, what ho 
thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether we 
might expect a return of them with a power too great for us to resist. 
His first opinion was, that the savages in the boat could never live 
out the storm which blew that night they went off’, but must of 
necessity be drowned or driven south to those other shores where 
they were as sure to be devoured as they were to be drowned if they 
were cast away; but as to what they would do if they came safe on 
shore, he said he knew not ; but it was his opinion that they were so 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 205 . 

clr68jdfiilly witK tliG iiijiiiiiGr of tlicir bciing cittiicltocl, tlic iioiso 

and the lire, that he believed they would tell their people they were 
all killed by thunder and lightning, not by the hand of man, and that 
the two which appeared, viz., JA*iday and ine, were two heavenly 
spirita or furies, come down to destroy them, and not men witli 
weapons. This he said he knew, because he heard them all cry out 
so in their language to one another, for it was impossible to them 
to conceive that a man could dart fire, and speak thunder, and kill 
at a distance without lifting up the hand, as was done now. And 
this old savage was in the right ; for, as I undc^rstood since by other 
hands, the savages never attempted to go over to the island after- 
wards ; they W'ere so terrified with the accounts given by those four 
men (for it seems they did escape the sea), that they believed who- 
ever went to that enchanted island would be destroyed with lire from 
the gods. 

This however I knew not, and therefore was under continual appre- 
hensions for a good while, and kept always upon my guard, i and 
all my army ; for as we wore now four of us, I woidd have ventured 
upon a hundred of them fairly in the open field at any time. 

In a little time, liowever, no more canoes appearing, the fear of 
their coming wore off, and 1 began to take my former thoughts of a 
voyage to the main into consideration, being likewise assui'ed by 
Priday’s father, that I might depend on good usage from their nation 
on his account, if 1 Avould go. 

But my thoughts were a little suspended when I had a serious 
discourse with the Spaniai’d, and when I understood that there wo ]0 
sixteen more of his countrymen and Poriiigneso, wlio, having been 
cast away, and made their escape to that side, lived there at jjeace 
indeed with the savages, but were very sore ])ut to it for necessaries, 
and indeed for life. I asked him all the particulars of their voyage, 
and found they vsrere a Spanish ship bound from the Rio do la J'lata 
to the liavana, being directed to leave their lading there, which was 
chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back what European goods 
they could meet with there ; that they had live Portuguese seamen 
on board, whom they took out of another wneck ; that five of tbeir 
own men were drowned when the first ship was lost, and that these 
escaped through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived almost 
starved on the cannibal coast, where they expected to have been 
devoured every moment. 

He told me they had some arms with them, but they were perfectly 
useless, for that they had neither powder or ball, the washing of the 
sea having spoiled all their pow'der but a little, which they used at 
their first landing to provide themselves some food. 

I asked him what he thought would become of them tlicio, and 1 
they had formed no design of making any escape ? He saul Iney 
had many consultations about it, but that having neither vessel, or 
tools to build one, or provisions of any kind, their councils always 
ended in tears and despair. 



2o6 the life and adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE 


I asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal from 
me which might tend towards a^n escape ? And whether, if they 
were all here, it might not be done ? I told him with freedom I 
feared mostly their treachery and ill usage of me, if I put my life in 
their hands ; for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature 
or man ; nor did men always square their dealings by the obligations 
they had received, so much as they did by the advantages they ex- 
pected. I told him it would be very hard that I should be the 
instrument of their deliverance, and that they sliould afterwards 
make me their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman was 
certain to be made a sacrifice, what necessity, or what accident 
soever, brought him thither ; and that I liad ratlier be delivered up 
to the savages, and be devoured alive, than fall into the merciless 
claws of the priests, and bo carried into the Inquisition. I added 
that otherwise I was persuaded, if they \vere all liere, we might, with 
so many hands, build a bark largo enough to carry us all away, either 
to the Brazils southward, or to the islands or Spanish coast northward ; 
but that if in requital they should, when I had put weapons into their 
hands, carry mo by force among their own poopie, I might be ill used 
for my kindness to them, and make my case worse than it was before. 

He answered with a great deal of candour and ingenuity that 
their condition was so miserable, and they wore so sensible of it, that 
he believed they would abhor the thought of using any man unkindly 
that should contribute to their deliverance ; and that, if I pleased, 
he would go to them with the old man, and discourse with them 
about it, and return again and bring me their answer ; that ho would 
make conditions with them upon their solemn oatli that they should 
be absolutely under my leading as their commander and captain ; 
and that they should swear upon the Holy Sacraments and the Gospel 
to be true to me, and to go to such Christian country as that I 
Should agree to, and no other ; and to be directed wholly and 
absolutely by my orders till they were landed safely in such country 
as I intended ; and that ho would bring a contract from them under 
their hands for that purpose. 

Then he told me he would first swear to me himself that he would 
never stir from me as long as he lived till I gave him orders ; and 
that he would take my side to the last drop of his blood if there 
should happen the least breach of faith among his countrymen. 

He told me they were all of them very civil honest men, and they 
were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither weapons 
or clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion of the 
savages ; out of all hopes of ever returning to their own country ; 
and that he was sure, if I would undertake their relief, they would 
lite and die by me. 

Upon these assurances I resolved to venture to relieve them if 
possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them 
to treat. But when we had gotten all things in a readiness to go, the 




WRECK OF A SFAKISH SHIP ON THE CANNIBAL COAST.- 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 209 

Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so much prudence 
in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand, that f 
could not but be very well satislied in it, and by his advice put off 
the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year. Tiie case 
was thus : 

He had been with us now about a month, during which time 1 had 
let him see in what manner I had provided, with the assistance of 
Providence, for my support ; and he saw evidently what stock of 
corn and rice I had laid up, which as it was more than suhicient for 
myself, so it was not sulhcient, at least without good husbandry, for 
my family, now it was increased to number four ; but much less would 
it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as he said, fourteen still 
alive, should come over. And least of all should it be sufficient to 
victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a voyage to any of the 
Christian colonies of America. So he told me he thought it would be 
more advisable to let him and the other two dig and cultivate some 
more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow ; and that we should 
wait another harvest that we might have a supply of corn for Ins 
countrymen when they should come; for want might be a temptation 
to them to disagree, or not to think themselves delivered, otherwise 
than out of one difficulty into another. You know, says he, the 
children of Israel, though they rejoiced at first for their being de- 
livered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even against God Himself that 
delivered them, when they came to want bread in tlie wilderness. 

liis caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I could 
not but bo very well pleased with his proposal, as well as 1 was 
satisfied with his fidelity. So we fell to digging all four of us, as well 
as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted ; and in about 
a month’s time, by the end of which it was seedtime, we had gotten 
as much land cured and trimmed up, as we sowed twenty-two bushels 
of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice, which was in sboi*t all the seed 
we had to spare ; nor indeed did we leave ourselves barley sufficient 
for our own food, for the six months that we had to expect our crop, 
that is to say, reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for 
sowing ; for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in 
that country. 

Having now society enough, and our number being sufficient to 
put us out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless their 
number had been very great, we went freely all over the island, 
wherever we found occasion ; and as here we had our escape or 
deliverance upon onr thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me, to 
have the means of it out of mine ; to this purpose, I marked out 
several trees which I thought fit for our work, and I set Enday ana 
his father to cutting them down; and then I caused the bpamau , o 
whom I imparted my thought on that affair, to oversee and 
their work. I showed them with what indefatigable pains 1 ha 
hewed a large tree into single planks, and I caused them to ( o 0 



210 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


like, till they had made about a dozen large planks of good oak, near 
2 foot broad, 35 foot long, arid from 2 inches to 4 inches thick : 
What prodigious labour it took up, anyone may imagine. 

At the same time I contrived to increase my little Hock of tame 
goats as much as I could ; and to this purpose, I made Friday and 
the Spaniard go out one day, and myself with Friday the next day ; 
for we took our turns ; and by this means we got above twenty 
young kids to breed up with the rfest ; for whenever we shot the 
dam, we saved the kids, and addcA them to our Hock : but above all, 
the season for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such a 
prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that I believe, had we 
been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are cured, we could have 
Hlled sixty or eighty barrels ; and these witli our broad was a great 
part of our food, and very good living too, 1 assure you ; for it is an 
exceeding nourishing food. 

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it was not the 
most plentiful increase I had se(‘n in the island, hut however it was 
enough to answer our end ; for from our twenty-two bushels of 
barley, we brought in and thrashed out above two hundred and 
twenty bushels ; and the like in propoition of the rice, which was 
store enough for our food to the next harvest, tliough all the sixteen 
Spaniards had been on shore with me ; or if we had been ready for 
a voyage, it would very plentifully have victualled our ship, to have 
carried us to any part of the world, that is to say, of America. 

When we had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn, wo 
fell to work to make more wicker work, viz., great baskets in which 
we kept it ; and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this 
part, and often blamed me that I did not make some things, for 
defence, of this kind of work ; but I saw no need of it. 

And now having a full supply of food for all the guests I expected, 
I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to see what he 
could do with those he had left behind him there. I gave him a 
strict charge in writing, not to bring any man with him, who would 
not first swear in the presence of liimseif and of the old savage, that 
he would no way injure, fight with, or attack the person he should 
find in the island, who was so kind to send for them in order to their 
deliverance; but that they would stand by and defend him against 
all such attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely under 
and subjected by his commands ; and that this should be put in 
writing, and signed with their hands. How we were to have this 
done, when I knew they had neither pen or ink ; that indeed was a 
question which 'sve never asked. 

Under these instructions, the Spaniard, and the old savage, the 
father of Friday, went away in one of the canoes, which they might 
he said to come in, or ratlier were brought in, when they came as 
prisoners to be devoured by the savages. 

I gave each of them a musket with a firelock on it, and about 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, -it 


«iglit charges of powder and ball, charging them to be very good 
husbands of both, and not to use either of them but upon urgent 


occasion. 

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by mo in 
view of my deliverance for now twenty-seven years and some days. I 
gave them provisions of bread, ajid of dried grapes, sullicient for tliem- 
selvcs for many days, and suflicient for all their countrymen for 
about eight days* time; and wisliing them a good voyage, I saw thcnu 
go, agreeing with them about a signal they sliould liang out at tludr 
return, by which I should know them again, when they came back, 
at a distance, before they came on shorn. 

They went away with a fair gale on the day that the moon was at 
full by my account, in the month of October ; but as for an exact 
reckoning of days, after I had once lost it, I could never recover it 
af>‘ain ; nor had I kept even tlic numher of yeai'S so i)mictual]y, as 
to be sure that 1 was riglit, tliough as it imovcd, when J afterwards 
examined my account, 1 found I had kept a true reckoning of yextrs. 

It was no loss than eight days I had waited for them, wlum a 
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has not 
perha'ps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutcli one 
morning, when my man Friday came running in to mo, and called 
aloud, Master, master, they are conu^ they are come. 

1 jumped np, and regardless of danger, J went out, as soon as I 
could get my clothes on, through my little grove, wliich liy thc' 
was by this time grown to he a very ihick wood ; I say, regaidles-i 
of danger, I went without my arms, which w-as not my custom to 
do. But I wuxs surprised, when turning my eyes to the sea, I 
presently saw a boat at about a league and a half’s distance, slaudmg 
in for the shore, with a shoulder of mutton sail, as they call Jl-. ana 
tlie wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in ; also 1 obserYwl 
presently, that they did not come from that side which the shore lay 
on, but from the southernmost end of the island, bpon this 1 called 
IViday in, and bid liim lie close, for tliese were not the people wc 
looked for, and that wc might not know yet whether they weie 


friends or enemies. . . ^ 

III the next place, I wont in to fetch my perspective g ass, to sec 
what I could make of them ; and having takeu the laddci out, i 
climbed up to the top of the hill, as 1 used to do when . J’*- ^ 

heusivo of anything, and to take my view the plainer without bui „ 


discovered. ^ 

I had scarce set my foot ou the hill, when my ey p ■ 
covered a ship lying at an anchor, at about two ‘ 

distance from me south-south-east, hut not aboic a p 

from the shore. By my observation it "j. 

English ship, and the boat appeared to be an ' ‘ j 

I cannot Vxpress the confusion I was m, joy ot^bcun„ 

a ship, and one who I had reason to believe w ^ 



212 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


countrymen, and consequently friends, was such as I cannot describe, 
but yet I had some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell from 
whence they came, bidding me keep upon my guard. In the first 
place, it occurred to me to consider what business an English shij) 
could have in that part of the world, since it was not the way to or 
from any part of the world, where the English had any traffic ; and 
I knew there had been no storms to drive them in there, as in dis- 
tress ; and that if they were English really, it was most probable that 
tliey were here upon no good design ; and that I had better continue 
as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and murderers. 

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger, which 
sometimes are given him, when he may think tliere is no possibility 
of its being real. That such hints and notices are given us, I believe 
few that have made any observations of things, can deny ; that they 
are certain discoveries of an invisible world, and a converse of spirits, 
we cannot doubt ; and if the tendency of them seems to be to warn 
us of danger, why should W’c not sux^i)ose they are from some friendly 
agent, whether supreme, or inferior, and subordinate, is not the 
question ; and that they are given for our good? 

The present quevStion abundantly confirms me in the justice of this 
reasoning; for had I not been made cautious by this secret admoni- 
tion, come it from whence it will, I had been undone inevitably, and 
in a far worse condition than before, as you will see presently. 

I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I saw the boat draw 
near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to thrust in at for the 
couveiiicnco of landing; how^ever, as they did not come quite far 
enough, they did not see the little inlet where I formerly landed my 
rafts ; but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at about half a 
mile from me, which was very happy for me ; for otherwise they 
would have landed just as I may say at my door, and would soon 
have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered me 
of all I had. 

When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied that they were 
Englishmen ; at least, most of them ; one or two I thought were 
Dutch ; but it did not prove so. There were in all eleven men, 
whereof three of them I found were unarmed, and as I thought, 
bound; and when the first four or five of them were jumped on 
shore, they took those three out of the boat as prisoners. One of 
the three I could perceive using the most passionate gestures of en- 
treaty, affliction and despair, even to a kind of extravagance ; the 
other two I could perceive lifted up their hands sometimes, and 
appeared concerned indeed, but not to such a degree as the first. 

I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the 
meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me in English, as 
well as he could, O master 1 You see English mans eat prisoner as 
well as savage mans. Why, says I, Friday, do you think they are 
a going to eat them then ? Yes, says Friday, they will eat them. 



2^3 


THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

No, no, says I, Friday, I am afraid tliey will murder them indeed, 
but you may be sure they will not cat them. 

All this while I had no thought of what the matter reallv ; 
but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every 
moment when the three prisoners should be killed ; nay, once I ^aw 
one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as liie seamen 
call it, or sword, to strike one of the ])oor men ; and 1 ex])eeted to 
see him fall every moment, at which all the blood in my body seemed 
to run chill in my veins. 

1 wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage that was 
gotie with him ; or that I had any way to have c.ome undiscovered 
within shot of them, that I jjiight have rescued the three men ; for 
I saw no firearms they had among them ; but it fell out to my mind 
another way. 

After J had observed the outrageous usage ol the llireo men, by 
the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows run scattering about the 
laud, as if they wanted to sec tlie coimtry. I observed that the 
three other men had liberty to go also where they pleased ; but they 
sat dowui all three upon the ground, very pensive, and looked like 
men in despair. 

This put me in mind of the first time wlum T came on sliore, and 
began to look about me: how I gave myself over for lost; how 
wildly I looked round me ; what dreadful apprehensions I had ; 
and how I lodged in the tree ail night for fear of being devoured by 
wild beasts. 

As 1 knew nothing that night of the supply I was to receive l)y 
the providential driving of the ship nearer the land, by the storms 
and tide, by which I have since been so long nourished and sup- 
ported ; so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how certain 
of deliverance and supply they were, liow near it was to them, and 
bow eflectually and really they were in a condition of safety, at 
the same time that they thought themselves lost, and their case 
desperate. 

So little do we see before us in the world, and so much reason liayo 
we to depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world, that Ho 
docs not leave Ilis creatures so absolutely destitute, but that in the 
Vv^orst circumstances they have always something to be thankful for, 
and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they imagine; nay, 
are even brought to their deliverance by the means by which they 
seem to be brought to their destruction. 

It was just at the top of high-water when these people came on 
shore, and while partly they stood parleying with the jnisoners they 
brought, and partly wliile they rambled about to see what kind o a 
place they were in ; they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spen , 
and the water was ebbed considerably away, leaving their boat 

\h^haa left two men in the boat, who as I found afterwards, 



214 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


having drank a little too much brandy, fell asleep ; however, one of 
them waking sooner than the 'other, and finding the boat too fast 
aground for him to stir it, hallooed for the rest who were straggling 
about, upon which they all soon came to the boat ; but it was past 
all their strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy, and 
the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost like a 
quicksand. 

In this condition, like true seamen who are perhaps the least of all 
mankind given to forethought, they gave it over, and away they 
strolled about the country again ; and I heard one of them say aloud 
to another, calling them off from the boat, Why, let her alone, J ack, 
can’t ye, she will float next tide ; by which I was fully confirmed in 
the main inquiry, of what countrymen they were. 

All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring to stir out 
of my castle any farther than to my x>h^ce of observation, near the 
top of the hill ; and very glad I was, to think how well it was 
fortified. 1 knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat could 
bo on float again, and by that time it would be dark, and I might be 
at more liberty to see their motions, and to hear their discourse, if 
they had any. 

In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, as before ; though 
witli more caution, knowing I had to do with another kind of enemy 
than I had at first. I ordered Friday also, who I had made an 
excellent marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms. I took 
myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three muskets ; my figure 
indeed was very fierce ; I had my formidable goatskin coat on, with 
the great cap I have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two 
pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder. 

It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt 
till it was dark. But about two o’clock, being the heat of the day, 
I found that in short they were all gone straggling into the woods, 
and as I thought were laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed 
men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were, however, 
set down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a 
mile from mo, and as I thought out of sight of any of the rest. 

Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn some- 
thing of their condition. Immediately I marched in the figure as 
above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable 
for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a spectre-like figure 
as I did. 

I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then before any 
of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, What are ye, 
gentlemen ? 

They started up at the noise, but were ten times more confounded 
when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that I made. They made 
no answer at all, but I thought I perceived them just going to fly 
from me, when I spoke to them in Enghsh : Gentlemen, said I, do 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 215 


not be surprised at mo ; perhaps you may have a friend near you 
when you did not expect it. He must bo sent directly from Heaven, 
then, said one of them very gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at 
the same time to me ; for our condition is past the help of man. All 
help is from Heaven, sir, said I. But can you put a stranger in the 
way how to help you, for you seem to me to be in some great dis- 
tress ? I saw you when you landed, and when you seemed to make 



CRUSOE ASSISTIKO THE .SPANIARD. 


applications to the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift 

up his sword to kill you. , ,, 

The poor man with tears running down his face, ana tremDiin„, 
looking like one astonished, returned. Am I talking to God, or 
Is it a real man, or an angel? Be in no fear about that, * 

if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have co ^ 
clothed, and armed after another manner than you ^ X 

lay aside your fears, I am a man, an Enghshman, ? 

assist you, you see ; I have one servant only , we 


2i6 the life ASD adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


ammunition; tell us freely, can we serve you? What is your 
case ? 

X3ur case, said he, sir, is too long to tell you, while our murderers 
are so near ; but in short, sir, I was commander of that ship, my 
men have mutinied against me ; they liave been hardly prevailed on 
not to murder me, and at last have set me on shore in this desolate 
place, with these two men with me ; one my mate, the other a pas- 
senger, where we expected to perisli, believing the place to be unin- 
liabited, and know not yet what to think of it. 

Where are those brutes, your enemies, said I ; do you know where 
they are gone ? There they lie, sir, said he, pointing to a thicket of 
trees ; my heart trembles, for fear they hive seen us, and heard you 
speak ; if they have they will naturally murder us all. 

Have they any firearms ? said I. He answered they had only two 
pieces, and one which they left in the boat. Well, then, said I, leave 
the rest to me ; I see they are all asleep, it is an easy thing to kill 
them all; but shall we rather take them prisoners? lie told me 
there were two desperate villains among them, that it was scarce 
safe to show any mercy to ; but if they were secured, ho believed all 
the rest would return to their duty. I asked him which they wore. 
He told me he could not at that distance describe them ; but he 
would obey my orders in anything I would direct. Well, says I, let 
us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will 
resolve further. So they willingly went back with me, till the woods 
covered us from them. 

Look you, sir, said I, if I venture upon your deliverance, are you 
willing to make two conditions with me? He anticipated my proposals, 
by telling me, that both he and the ship, if recovered, should be 
wholly directed and commanded by me in eveiything ; and if the 
ship was not recovered, he would live and die with me in what part 
of the world soever I w'ould send him ; and the two other men said 
the same. 

Well, says I, my conditions are but two. 1. That while you stay 
on this island with me, you will not pretend to any authority here ; 
and if I put arms into your hands, you will upon all occasions give 
them up to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine, upon this island, 
and in the meantime be governed by my orders. 

2. That if the ship is, or may be recovered, you will carry me and 
my man to England passage free. 

He gave me all the assurances that the invention and faith of man 
could devise, that he would comply with these most reasonable de- 
mands, and besides would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it 
upon all occasions as long as he lived. 

Well, then, said I, here are three muskets for you, with powder 
and ball ; tell me next what you think is proper to be done. He 
showed all the testimony of his gratitude that he was able ; but 
offered to be wholly guided by me. I told him I thought it was 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 217 


bard venturing anything ; but the best method I could think of ms 
to hre upon them at once, as they lay ; and if any was not killed at 
the first volley, and offered to submit, we might save them, and so 
put it wholly upon God’s providence to direct the shot. 

He said very modestly, that he was loth to kill them, if he could 
help it, but that those two were incorrigible villains, and had been 
the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped wo 
should all be undone still ; for they would go on board, and bring 
the whole ship’s company, and destroy us all. Well, then, says I, 
necessity legitimates my advice ; for it is the only way to save our 
lives. However, seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, I told 
him they should go themselves, and manage as they found convenient. 

In the middle of this discourse, w^e heard some of them awake, 
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet ; I asked him if 
cither of them were of the men who he had said were the heads of 
the mutiny? He said. No. Well, then, said I, you may let them 
escape, and Providence seems to have wakened them on purpose to 
save themselves. Now, says I, if the rest escape you, it is your 
fault. 

Animated with this, he took the musket I had given him in his 
hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with 
each man a piece in his hand. The two men who were with him 
going first, made some noise, at which one of the seamen who was 
awake, turned about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest ; 
but it was too late then ; for the moment he cried out they fired ; I 
mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece. 
They had so well aimed their shot at the men they knew that one of 
them was killed on the spot, and the other very much wounded ; 
but not being dead, he started up upon his feet, and called eagerly 
for help to the other; but the captain, stepping to him, told him it 
was too late to cry for help, he should cry upon God to forgive his 
villa^-^y, and with that word knocked him down with the stock of his 
m'4^ket, so that he never spoke more. There were three more in 
*ne company, and one of them was also slightly wounded, ily this 
4ime I was come, and when they saw their danger, and that it was 
in vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them he 
would spare their lives if they would give him any assurance of their 
abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of, and would 
swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in 
carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave 
him all the protestations of their sincerity that could bo desii ed, an 
he was willing to believe them, and spare their lives, winch J was 
not against, only that I obliged him to keep them bound hand ana 
foot while they were upon the island. , i. 

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain s rna e 
the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring away the oars, a 
sail, which they did ; and by and by, three straggling men that were 



2i8 the life and adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


(happily for them) parted from the rest, came back upon hearing the 
guns fired, and seeing their captain, who before was their prisoner, 
now their conqueror, they submitted to be bound also ; and so our 
victory was complete. 

It now remained, that the captain and I should inquire into one 
another’s circumstances. I began first, and told him my whole 
history, which he heard with an attention oven to amazement ; and 
particularly, at the wonderful manner of my being furnished with 
provisions and ammunition ; and indeed, as my story is a whole 
collection of wonders, it affected him deeply ; but when he reflected 
from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have been preserved 
there, on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and 
he could not speak a word more. 

After this communication was at an end, I carried him and bis 
two men into my apartment, leading them in, just where I came 
out, viz., at the top of the house, where I refreshed them with such 
provisions as I had, and showed them all the contrivances I had 
made, during my long, long inhabiting that place. 

All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing ; but 
above all, the captain admired my fortification, and how perfectly I 
had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which having been 
now planted near twenty years, and the trees growing much faster 
than in England, was become a little wood, and so thick, that it was 
unpassable in any part of it, but at that one side, where I had 
reserved my little winding passage into it. I told him, this was my 
castle, and my residence ; but that I had a seat in the country, as 
most princes have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I 
would show him that too another time ; but at present, our business 
was to consider how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to 
that ; but told me, he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take ; 
for that there were still six-and-twenty hands on board, who having 
entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited their 
lives to the law, would be hardened in it now by desperation ; and 
would carry it on, knowing that if they were reduced, they should be 
brought to the gallows, as soon as they came to England, or to any 
of the Enghsh colonies ; and that therefore there would be no attack- 
ing them, with so small a number as we were. 

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a 
very rational conclusion ; and that therefore something was to be 
resolved on very speedily, as well to draw the men on board into 
some snare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, 
and destroying us ; upon this it presently occurred to me, that in a 
little while the ship's crew, wondering what was become of their 
comrades, and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their 
other boat, to see for them, and that then perhaps they might coma 
armed, and be too strong for us : this he allowed was rational. 

Upon this, I told him the first thing wa had to do, was to stave 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


2l<j 


the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry 
her off; and taking everything out of her, leave her so far useless as 
not to bo fit to swim. Accordingly we went on board, took the arms 
which were left on board, out of her, and whatever else we found 
there, which was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a few 
biscuit cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar, in a 
piece of canvas ; the siigar was five or six pounds, all which was 
very welcome to me, especially the brandy, and sugar, of which I 
had none left for many years. 

When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars, mast, 
sail, and rudder of the boat, were carried away before, as above) we 
knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if they had come strong 
enough to master us, yet they could not carry off the boat. 

Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts, that wc could be able to 
recover the ship ; but my view was that if they went away witliout 
the boat, I did not much ejuestion to make her fit again, to carry us 
away to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends, the Spaniards, 
in my way, for I had them still in my thoughts. 

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by main 
strength, heaved the boat up upon the beach, so high that the tide 
would not float her off at high-water-mark ; and besides, had broke 
a hole in her bottom, too big to be quickly stopped, and were sat 
down musing what wo should do ; we heard the ship fire a gun, and 
saw her make a waft with her ancient, as a signal for the boat to 
come on board ; but no boat stirred ; and they fired several times, 
making other signals for the boat. 

At last, when all their signals and firings proved fruitless, and 
they found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of my 
gdasses, hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore ; and we 
found as they approached, that there were no less than ten men in 
her, and that they had firearms with them. 

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full 
view of them as they came, and a plain sight of the men, even of 
their faces, because the tide having set them a little to the east of 
the other boat, they rowed up under shore, to come to the same 
place, where the other had landed, and where the boat lay. 

By this means, I say, wo had a full view of them, and the captain 
knew the persons and characters of all the men in the boat, of whom 
he said, that there were three very honest fellows, who he was sure 
were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and 
frighted. , ^ ^ 

But that as for the boatswain, who it seems was the chici o 
among them, and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any oi tn 
ship's crew, and were no doubt made desperate in their 
prise, and terribly apprehensive he was, that they wou 

Xm. and told him, that men in our circumstances were 



220 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


past the operation of fear. That seeing almost every condition that 
could be, was better than that which we were supposed to be in, we 
ought to expect that the consequence, whether death or life, would 
be sure to be a deliverance. I asked him, what he thought of the 
circumstances of my life? and whether a deliverance were not worth 
venturing for ? And where, sir, said I, is your belief of my being 
preserved here on purpose to save your life, which elevated you a 
little while ago ? For my part, said I, there seems to bo but one 
thing amiss in all the prospect of it. What’s that ? says he. Why, 
said I, it is, that as you say, there are three or four honest fellows 
among them, which should be spared ; had they been all of the 
wicked part of the crew, I should have thought God’s providence had 
singled them out to deliver them into your hands ; for depend upon 
it, every man of them that comes ashore is our own, and shall die, 
or live, as they behave to us. 

As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I found 
it greatly encouraged him ; so we set vigorously to our business. Wo 
had upon the first appearance of the boat’s coming from tlie ship, 
considered of separating our prisoners, and had indeed secured them 
effectually. 

Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured than ordinary, 
I sent with Friday, and one of the three (delivered men) to my cave, 
where they were remote enough, and out of danger of being heard or 
discovered, or of finding their way out of the wood, if they could 
have delivered themselves. Here they left them bound, but gave 
them provisions, and promised them if they continued there quietly, 
to give them their liberty in a day or two ; but that if they attempted 
their escape, they should bo put to death without mercy. Tiioy 
promised faithfully to bear their confinement with patience, and were 
very thankful that they had such good usage, as to have provisions, 
and a light left them ; for Friday gave them candles (such as we 
made ourselves) for their comfort ; and they did not know out that 
he stood sentinel over them at the entrance. 

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept 
pinioned indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them ; but 
the other two were taken into my service upon their captain's recom- 
mendation, and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die wdth 
us; so wdth them and the three honest men, we were seven men, 
well armed ; and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well 
enough with the ten that were a-coming, considering that the captain 
had said there were three or four honest men among them also. 

As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay, they 
run their boat into the beach, and came all on shore, hauling the 
boat up after them, which I was glad to see ; for I was afraid they 
would rather have left the boat at an anchor, some distance from 
the shore, with some hands in her, to guard her ; and so we should 
not be able to seize the boat. 



221 


THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to their otl^r 
boat, and it was easy to see that th ^-y were under a great surprise 
to find her stripped as above, of all that was in her, and a Lneat 
hole in her bottom. 

After they had mused a while upon this, they set up two or three 
great shouts, hallooing^ with all tl eir might, to try if they could 
make their companions hear ; but all was to no purpose. Then they 
came all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their small arms, which 
indeed we heard, and the echoes n ade the woods ring ; but it was 
all one, those in the cave we were sure could not hear, and those 
in our keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no 
answer to them. 

They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that as they told 
us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board again to their ship, 
and let them know that the men were all murdered, and the long- 
boat staved ; accordingly they immediately launched their boat 
again and gat all of them on board. 

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded at tliis, 
believing they would go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving 
their comrades up for lost, and so he should still lose the ship, whicli 
he was in hopes we should have recovered ; but he was quickly as 
much frighted the other way. 

They had not been long put off with the boat, but we perceived 
them all coming on shore again ; but with this new measure in their 
conduct, which it seems they consulted together upon, viz., to leave 
three men in the boat, and the rest go on shore, and go up into the 
country to look for their fellows. 

This was a great disappointment to us ; for now wo were at a loss 
what to do ; for our seizing those seven men on shore would bo no 
advantage to us, if we let the boat escape ; because they would then 
row away to the ship, and then the rest of them would bo sure to 
weigh and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would be lost. 

However, we had no remedy, but to wait and see what the issue 
of things might present ; the seven men came on shore, and the 
three who remained in the boat put her off to a good distance from 
the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them ; so that it wa^ 
impossible for us to come at them in the boat. 

Those that came on shore kepi close together, marching towards 
the top of the little hill, under which my habitation lay ; and wo 
could see them plainly, though they could not perceive us. We could 
have been very glad they would have come nearer to us, so that wo 
might have fired at them, or that they would have gone farther on, 
that we might have come abroad. , . - 

But when they were come to the brow of the hill, where they couicl 
see a great way into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the 
north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they shouted, ana 
hallooed, till they were weary ; and not caring it seems to ventuia 



222 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


far from the shore, nor far from one another, they sat down together 
under a tree, to consider of it. 'Had they thought fit to have gone 
to sleep there, as the other party of them had done, they had done 
the job for us : but they were too full of apprehensions of danger, to 
venture to go to sleep, though they could not tell what the danger was 
they had to fear neither. 

The captain made a very just proposal to me, upon this consulta- 
tion of theirs, viz., that perhaps they would all fire a volley again, to 
endeavour to make their fellows hear, and that we should all sally 
upon them, just at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged, 
and they would certainly yield, and we should have them without 
bloodshed : I liked the proposal, provided it was done while we 
were near enough to come up to them, before they could load their 
pieces again. 

But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long time, very 
irresolute what course to take ; at length I told them, there would be 
nothing to be done in iny opinion till night, and then if they did not 
return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to g(it between them, 
and the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them in the 
boat, to get them on shore. 

We waited a great while, though very impatient for their removing ; 
and were very uneasy, when after long consultations, we saw them 
start all up, and marcli down toward the sea. It seems they liad such 
dreadful apprehensions upon them, of the danger of the place, that 
they resolved to go on board the ship again, give tlieir companions 
over for lost, and so go on with their intended voyage with the 
ship. 

As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I imagined it to 
be as it really was, that they had given over their search, and were 
for going back again ; and the captain, as soon as I told him my 
tliouglits, was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it ; but I 
presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and which 
answered my end to a tittle. 

I ordered l^^riday, and the captain's mate, to go over the little creek 
westward, towards the place where the savages came on shore, when 
I'riday was rescued; and as soon as they came to a little rising 
ground, at about half a mile distance, I bade them halloo as loud as 
they could, and wait till they found the seamen heard them ; that 
as soon as ever tliey heard the seamen answer them, they should 
return it again, and then keeping out of sight, take a round, always 
answering when the other heJlooed, to draw them as far into the 
island, and among the woods, as possible, and then wheel about 
again to me, by such ways as I directed them. 

They were just going into the boat, when Friday and the mate 
hallooed, and they presently heard them, and answering, run along 
the shore westward, towards the voice they heard, when they were 
presently stopped by the creek, where the water being up, they 



7 HE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 223 


could not get over, and called for the boat to come up, and set them 
over, as indeed I expected. 

When they had set themselves over, I observed, that the boat being 
gone up a good way into the creek, and as it w^crc, in a harbour 
within the land, they took one of the three men out of her to go 
along with them, and left only two in the boat, having fastened her to 
the stump of a little tree on the shore. 

This was what I wished for, and immediately leaving Friday and 
the cajd.ain’s mate to their business, I took the rest with me, and 
crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men before 
they were aware; one of them lying on shore, and tlie other being in 
the boat ; the fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking, 
and going to start up ; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon 
him, and knocked him down, and then called out to him in the boat 
to yield, or lie was a dead man. 

There needed very few arguments to persuade a single man to 
yield, when he saw five men upon him, and his comrade knocked 
down ; besides, this was it seems one of the three who were not so 
hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was easily 
persuaded, not only to yield, but afterwards to join very sincere with 
us. 

Tn the meantime, Friday and the captain’s mate so well managed 
their business with the rest, that they drew tliem by hallooing and 
answering, from one hill to another, and from one wood to another, 
till they not only heartily tired them, but left them, where they w’cre 
very sure they could not reach back to tlic boat, before it was dark ; 
and indeed they w^ero heartily tired themselves also by the time they 
came back to us. 

We had nothing now to do, but to W’'atch for them, in the dark, 
and fall upon them, so as to make sime work with them. 

It was several hours after Friday came back to me, before they 
came back to their boat ; and we could hear the foremost of them 
long before they came quite up, calling to those behind to come 
along, and could also hear them answer and complain, how^ lame 
and tired they were, and not able to come any faster, which was 
very welcome news to us. 

At length they catne up to the boat ; but it is impossible to express 
their confusion, when they found the boat fast aground in the creek, 
the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. We could hear them call 
to one another in a most lamentable manner, tolling one another, they 
were gotten into an enchanted island ; that either there were inhabi- 
tants in it, and they should all be murdered, or else there w^cre devils 
and spirits in it, and they should be all carried aw^ay and devoured. ^ 

They hallooed again, and called their two comrades by their names, 
a great many times, but no answer. After some time, we could see 
them, by the little light there was, run about wringing their hands 
like men in despair; and that sometimes they would go and sit down 



224 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


in the boat to rest themselves, then come ashore again, and walk 
about again, and so over the same thing again. 

My men would fain have me give them leave to fall upon them 
at once in the dark ; but I was willing to take them at some ad- 
vantage, so to spare them, and kill as few of them as I could ; and 
especially I was unwilling to hazard the killing any of our own men, 
knowing the others were very well armed. I resolved to wait to see 
if they did not separate ; and therefore to make sure of them, I 
drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain to 
creep upon their hands and feet as close to the ground as they could, 
that they might not bo discovered, and get as near them as they 
could possibly, before they offered to fire. 

They had not been long in that posture, but that the boatswain, 
who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and had now shown 
himself the most dejected and dispirited of all the rest, came walk- 
ing towards them with two more of their crew ; the captain was so 
eager, as liaving this principal rogue so much in his power, that he 
could hardly have patience to let him come so near, as to be sure of 
him; for they only heard his tongue before. But when they came 
nearer, the captain and Friday starting up on their feet, let fly at 
them. 

The boatswain was killed upon the spot, the next man was shot 
into the body, and fell just by him, though he did not die till an hour 
or two after ; and the third run for it. 

At the noise of the fire, 1 immediately advanced with my whole 
army, which was now eight men, viz., myself generalissimo, Friday 
my lieutenant-general; the captain and his two men, and the three 
prisoners of war, whom we had trusted with arms. 

We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that they could not 
see our number ; and I made the man we had left in the boat, who 
was now one of us, call to them by name, to try if I could bring 
them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to terms, whicli 
fell out just as we desired. For indeed it was easy to think, as their 
condition then was, they would be very willing to capitulate ; so he 
calls out as loud as he could, to one of them, Tom Smith, Tom 
Smith ! Tom Smith answered immediately. Who's that, Bobinson? 
for it seems he knew his voice. The other answered, Ay, ay ; for 
God’s sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms, and yield, or you 
are all dead men this moment. 

Who must we yield to? where are they? (says Smith again). 
Here they are, says he, here’s our captain, and fifty men with him, 
have been hunting you this two hours ; the boatswain is killed. Will 
Frye is wounded, and I am a prisoner ; and if you do not yield, you 
are all lost. 

Will they give us quarter then (says Tom Smith), and we will 
yield? I'll go and ask, if you promise to yield, says Bobinson ; so 
he asked the captain, and the captain then himself calls out. You 




THE LI EE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 225 

Smith, you know iny voice, if you lay down your arms immediately, 
and submit, you shall have your lives all but Will Atkins. 

Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, For God’s sake, captain, give 
me quarter, what have I done ? They have been all as bad as I , 
which by the way was not true neither; for it seems this Will Atkins 
was the first man" that laid hold of the captain, when they first 
mutinied, and used him barbarously, in tying his hands, and giving 
him injurious language. However, the captain told him he must lay- 
down his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor’s mercy, by 
which he meant me ; for they all called mo governor. 

In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their lives ; 
and I sent the man that had parleyed with them, and two more, who 
bound them all ; and then my great army oi fifty men, which, particu- 
larly with those three, were all but eight, came up and seized upon 
them all, and upon their boat, only that I kept myself and one more 
out of sight, for reasons of state. 

Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing the 
ship ; and as for the captain, now ho had leisure to parley with thorn. 
He expostulated with them upon the villainy of their practices with 
him, and at length upon the farther wickedness of their design, and 
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress in tlie end, 
and perhaps to the gallows. 

They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for their lives ; 
as for that, ho told them they were none of his prisoners, but the 
commander’s of the island ; that they thought tliey had s(it him on 
shore in a barren uninhabited island, but it had pleased God so to 
direct them, that the island was inhabited, and that the governor was 
an Englishman ; that he might hang them all there, if he pleased ; 
but as he had given them all quarter, ho supposed he would seiui 
them to England to be dealt witli there, as justice required, except 
Atkins, who he was commanded by the governor to advise to prepare 
for death ; for that he would bo hanged in the morning. 

Though this w^as all a fiction of his own, yet it had its desired 
effect; Atkins fell upon his knees to beg the captain to intercede with 
the governor for his life ; and all the rest begged of him for God’s 
sake, that they might not be sent to England. 

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was come, 
and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these fellows in, to 
be hearty in getting possession of the ship ; so I retired in the dark 
from them, that they might not see what kind of a governor they ha^l, 
and called the captain to me ; when 1 called, as at a good distance, 
one of the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the captain, 
Captain, the commander calls for you ; and presently the captain 
replied, Tell his excellency, I '=im just a coming. This more perfectly 
amused them; and they all believed that the commander was just by 
with his fifty men. 

Upon the captain*s coming to me, I told him my project for seizing 



226 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


the ship, which he liked of wonderfully well, and resolved to put it 
in execution the next morning. 

But in order to execute it with more art, and secure of success, I 
told him we must divide the prisoners, and that he should go and 
take Atkins and two more of the worst of them, and send them 
pinioned to the cave where the others lay. This was committed to 
Friday and the two men who came on shore with the captain. 

They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison ; and it was indeed 
a dismal place, especially to men in their condition. 

The other I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I have 
given a full description ; and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, 
the place was secure enough, considering they were upon their 
behaviour. 

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter into 
a parley with them, in a word to try them, and tell me whether he 
thought they might be trusted or no, to go on board and surprise the 
ship. He talked to them of the injury done him, of the condition 
they were brought to ; and that though the governor had given them 
quarter for their lives as to the present action, yet that if they were 
sent to England, they would all be hanged in chains, to be sure ; but 
that if they would join in so just an attempt, as to recover the ship, 
he would have the governor's engagement for their pardon. 

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted 
by men in their condition ; they fell down on their knees to tfco 
captain, and promised with the deepest iiiijirecations, that they would 
be faithful to him to the last drop, and that they should owe their 
lives to him, and would go with him all over the world, that they 
would own him for a father to them as long as they lived. 

Well, says the captain, I must go and tell the governor what you 
say, and see what 1 can do to bring him to consent to it. So he 
brought me an account of the temper he found them in ; and that he 
verily believed they would be faithful. 

However, that we might be very secure, I told him he should go 
back again, and choose out those five, and tell them, they might see 
that he did not want men, that he would take out those five to be 
his assistants, and that the governor would keep the other two, and 
the three that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave), as hostages, 
for the fidelity of those five; and that if they proved unfaithful in the 
execution, the five hostages should be hanged in chains alive upon 
the shore. 

This looked severe, and convinced them that the governor was in 
earnest ; however, they had no way left them but to accept it ; and 
it was now the business of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, 
to persuade the other five to do their duty. 

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition: 1. The 
captain, his mate, and passenger. 2. Then the two prisoners of the 
first gang, to whom, having their characters from the captain, I had 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 227 


given their liberty, and trusted them with arms. 3. The other two 
whom I had kept till now, in my bower, pinioned; but, upon the 
captain’s motion, had now released. 4. These five released at last. 
So that they were twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners in the 
cave, for hostages. 

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these hands 
on board the ship ; for as for me and my man Friday, 1 did not 
think it was proper for us to stir, having seven men left behind ; 
and it was employment enough for us to keep them asunder, and 
supply them with victuals. 

As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast, but Friday 
went in twice a day to them, to supply them with necessaries ; and 
I made the other two carry provisions to a certain distance, where 
Friday was to take it. 

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the cap- 
tain, who told them, I was the x^erson the governor had ordered to 
look after them, and that it was the governor’s X)leasure they should 
not stir anywhere, but by my direction ; that if they did, they should 
be fetched into the castle, and be laid in irons ; so that as wo never 
Buffered them to see me as governor, so 1 now appeared as another 
person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the 
like, upon all occasions. 

The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish his 
two boats, stoj) the breach of one, and man them. He made his 
passenger captain of one, with four other men; and himself, and his 
mate, and five more, went in the other. And they contrived tlieir 
business very well ; for they came up to tlie ship about mid- 
night. As soon as they enme within call of the ship, he made 
Eobinson hail them, and tell them they had brought off the men and 
the boat, but that it was a long time before they had found them, 
and the like ; holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's 
Bide ; when the captain and the mate entering first with their arms, 
immediately knocked down the second mate and carpenter with the 
butt-end of their muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their men ; 
they secured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter decks, 
and began to fasten the hatches to keep them down who were below, 
when the other boat and their men entering at the fore chains, secured 
the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle which went down into the 
cook-room, making three men they found there prisoners. 

When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the captain ordered 
the mate with three men to break into the round-house where the 
new rebel captain lay, and having taken the alarm, was gotten up, 
and with two men and a boy had gotten firearms in their hands; and 
when the mate with a crow split open the door, the new captain and 
his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the mate with a 
musket ball, which broke Ins arm, and wounded two more of the 
men, but killed nobody. 

Id—? 



228 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

The mate, calling for help, rushed however into the round-house, 
wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot the new captain through 
the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and came out again 
behind one of his ears ; so that he never spoke a word ; upon which 
the rest yielded, and the ship was taken effectually, without any 
more lives lost. 

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven 
guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me, to give 
me notice of his success, which you may be sure I was very glad to 
hear, having sat watching upon the shore for it till near two o’clock 
in the morning. 

Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down ; and it 
having been a day of great fatigue to me, 1 slept very sound, till I 
was something surprised wuth the noise of a gun ; and presently 
starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of governor, and 
presently I knew the captain’s voice, when climbing up to the top of 
the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in 
his arms. My dear friend and deliverer, says he, there’s your ship, for 
she is all yours, and so ere we and all that belong to her. I cast my 
eyes to the ship, and there she rode within little more than half a 
mile of the shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as tlioy 
were masters of her ; and the woatljer being fair, liad brought hei 
to an anchor just against the mouth of the little creek ; and the tide 
being up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near the place where 
I at first landed my rafts, and so landed just at my door. 

I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise. For I saw niy 
deliverance indeed visibly put into my hands, all things easy, and 
a large ship just ready to carry me away whither I pleased to go. 
At first, for some time, I was not able to atiswer liini one word ; but 
as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him, or 1 should have 
fallen to the ground. 

He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled a bottle out of 
his pocket and gave me a dram of cordial, which he had brought on 
purpose for me ; after I had drank it, I sat down upon the ground ; 
and though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good while before 
I could speak a word to him. 

All this while the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as I, only 
not under any surprise, as I was ; and he said a thousand kind tender 
things to me, to compose me and biiug me to myself ; but such was 
the flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my spirits into confusion ; 
at last it broke out into tears, and in a little while after, I recovered 
my speech. 

Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer ; and we 
rejoiced together, I told him, I looked upon him as a man sent 
from Heaven to deliver me, and that the whole transaction seemed to 
be a chain of wonders ; that such things as these were the testimonies 
we had of a secret hand of Providence governing the world, and an 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 229 

evidence, that the eyes of an infinite Power could search into the 
remotest corner of the world, and send help to the miserable when- 
ever lie pleased, 

I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to Heaven, and 
what heart could forbear to bless Him, who had not only in a mira- 
culous manner provided for one in such a wilderness, and in such a 
desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance must always be 
acknowledged to proceed ? 

When we had talked a while, the captain told me, he had brought 
me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded, and such as 
the wretches that had been so long his masters had not plundered 
him of. Upon this he called aloud to the boat, and bid his men 
bring the things ashore that were for the governor ; and indeed it 
was a present, as if I had been one not that was to be carried away 
along with them, but as if I liad been to dwell upon the island still, 
and they were to go without me. 

First he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial 
waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine ; the bottles held two quarts 
apiece ; two pound of excellent good tobacco, tw^elve good pieces of 
the ship’s beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of pease, and about 
a hundred weight of biscuit. 

He brought mo also a box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag full of 
lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and abundance of other 
things. But besides these, and wljat was a thousand times more 
useful to me, he brought me six clean new shirts, six veiy good 
neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one 
pair of stockings, and a very good suit of clothes of his own, which 
had been worn but very little. In a ’word, he clothed me from head 
to foot. 

It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one may imagine, 
to one in my circumstances. But never w^as anything in the world 
of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy, as it was to me to 
wear such clothes at their first putting on. 

After these ceremonies past, and after all his good things were 
brought into my little apartment, we began to consult what was to 
be done with the prisoners we had ; for it was worth considering 
whether we might venture to take them away with us or no, 
especially two of them, who we knew to be incorrigible and refractory 
to the last degree ; and the captain said, he knew they were such 
rogues, that there was no obliging them, and if he did carry them 
away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered over to 
justice at the first English colony he could come at ; and I found that 
the captain himself was very anxious about it. 

Upon this, I told him, that if he desired it I durst undeitake to 
bring the two men he spoke of, to make it their own request that he 
should leave them upon the island. I should be very glad of that, 
says the captain, with all my heart. 


230 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Well, says I, I will send for them up, and talk with them for you , 
so I caused Eriday and the two* hostages, for they were now dis- 
charged, their comrades having performed their promise ; I say, I 
caused them to go to the cave, and bring up the five men, pinioned 
as they were, to the bower, and keep them there till I came. 

After some time, I came thither dressed in my new habit, and now 
I was called governor again ; being all met, and the captain with me, 
I caused the men to be brought before me, and I told them, I had 



had a full account of their villainous behaviour to the captain, and 
how they had run away with the ship, and were preparing to commit 
farther robberies, but that Providence had ensnared them in their 
own ways, and that they were fallen into the pit which they had 
digged for others. 

I let them know, that by my direction the ship had been seized, 
that she lay now in the road ; and they might see by and by, that 
their new captain had received the reward of his villainy ; for that 
they might see him hanging at the yard-arm. 







THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 2JI 

That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to say, why I 
should not execute them as pirates taken in the fact, as by my com- 
mission they could not doubt I had authority to do. 

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had 
jiothing to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain 
promised them their lives, and they humbly implored my mercy ; 
but I told them, I knew not what mercy to show them ; for as for 
myself, I had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had 
taken passage with the captain to go for England. And for the 
captain, he could not carry them to England, other than as prisoners 
in irons to be tried for mutiny, and running away with the ship ; the 
consequence of which, they must needs know, would be the gallows ; 
so that I could not tell which was best for them, unless tliey had a 
mind to take their fate in the island ; if they desired that, 1 did not 
care, as I had liberty to leave it ; I had some inclination to give them 
their lives, if they thought they could shift on shore. 

They seemed very thankful for it, said they would much rather 
venture to stay there, than to be carried to England to bo hanged ; 
so I left it on that issue. 

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, as if 
ho durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little angry 
with the captain, and told him, that they were my prisoners, not 
his ; and that seeing 1 had offered them so much favour, I would be 
as good as my word ; and that if he did not think fit to consent to 
it, 1 would set them at liberty, as I found them ; and if he did not 
like it, he might take them again if he couJd catcli them. 

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set them 
at liberty, and bade them retire into the woods to the place whence 
they came, and I would leave them some firearms, some ammuni- 
tion, and some directions how they should live very well, if they 
thought fit. 

Upon this I prepared to go on board the sliip, but told the captain, 
that I would stay that night to prepare my things, and desired him 
to go on board in the meantime, and keep all right in the ship, and 
send the boat on shore the next day for me ; ordering him in the 
meantime to cause the new captain who was killed, to be hanged at 
the yard-arm that these men might see him. 

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me to my 
apartment, and entered seriously into discourse with them of their 
circumstances. I told them, I thought they had made a right choice ; 
that if the captain carried them away, they would certainly be 
hanged. I showed them the new captain, hanging at the yard-arm 
of the ship, and told them they had nothing less to expect. 

When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then told 
them, I would let them into the story of my living there, and /put 
them into the way of making it easy to them. Accordingly I gave 
them the whole history of the place, and of my coming to it ; showed 


232 the life and adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


them my fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted my corn, 
cured my grapes ; and in a word, all that was necessary to make 
them easy, I told them the story also of the sixteen Spaniards that 
were to be expected ; for whom I left a letter, and made them promise 
to treat them in common with themselves. 

I left them my firearms, viz., five muskets, three fowling-pieces, 
and three swords. I had above a barrel and half of powder left ; 
for after the first year or two, I used but little, and wasted none. I 
gave them a description of the way I managed the goats, and direc- 
tions to milk and fatten them, and to make both butter and cheese. 

Ill a word, I gave them every part of my own story ; and I told 
them, I would prevail with the captain to leave them two barrels of 
gunpowder more, and some garden-seeds, which I told them I would 
have been very glad of ; also I gave them the bag of pease which 
the captain had brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to sow 
and increase them. 

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on board 
the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not weigh that 
night. The next morning early, two of the five men came swimming 
to the ship’s side, and making a most lamentable complaint of the 
other three, begged to be taken into the 'ship, for God’s sake, for 
they should be murdered, and begged the captain to take them on 
board, though he hanged them immediatoly. 

Upon this the capLain pretended to have no power without me ; 
but after some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of amend- 
ment, they were taken on board, and were some time after soundly 
whipped and pickled, after which they proved very honest and quiet 
fellows. 

Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore, the tide being 
up, with the 'things promised to the men, to which the captain at my 
intercession caused their chests and clothes to be added, which they 
took, and were very thankful for. I also encouraged them by telling 
them that if it lay in my way to send any vessel to take them in 1 
would not forget them. 

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board for relics the 
great goat’s-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and my parrot ; also 
1 forgot not to take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain 
by me so long useless that it was grown rusty, or tarnished, and 
^uld hardly pass for silver till it had been a little rubbed and 
handled ; as also the money I found in the wreck of the Spanish 
ship. 

And thus I left the isiand, the nineteenth ot December, as I found 
by the ship’s account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon it 
€ught-and-twenty years, two months, and nineteen days ; being 
delivered from this second captivity the same day of the month that 
I first made my escape in the barco-longo from among the Moors of 
Sallee. 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 233 



the second time, and very low in the world. I made her easy as to 
what she owed me, assuring her I would give her no trouble ; but 
on the contrary, in gratitude to her former care and faithfulness to 
me, I relieved her, as my little stock would afford, which at that 
time would indeed allow me to do but little for her ; but 1 assured 
her I would never forget her former kindness to me; nor did I 
forget her when I had sufficient to help her, as shall be observed in 
its place. 




234 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

I went down afterwards into Yorkshire, but my father was dead, 
and rny mother and all the family extinct, except that I found two 
sisters, and two of the children of one of my brothers ; and as I had 
been long given over for dead, there had been no provision made for 
me, so that in a word I found nothing to relieve or assist me, and 
that little money I had would not do much for me as to settling in 
the world. 

I met with one piece of gratitude indeed which I did not expect, 
and this was that the master of the ship, who 1 had so happily 
delivered, and by the same means saved the ship and cargo, having 
given a very handsome account to the owners of the manner how I 
had saved the lives of the men, and the ship, they invited me to meet 
them, and some merchants concerned, and all together they made me 
a very handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present of 
almost two hundred pounds sterling. 

But after making several reliections upon the circumstances of my 
life, and how little way this would go towards settling me in the 
world, 1 resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come by 
some information of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and of 
what was become of my partner, who 1 had reason to suppose had 
some years now given me over for dead. 

With this view I took s}iipj)ing for Lisbon, where I arrived in April 
following ; my man Friday accompanying me very honestly in all 
ramblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions. 

When I came to Lisbon, I found out by inquiry, and to my par- 
ticular satisfaction, my old friend the captain of the ship, who first 
took mo up at sea, off of the shore of Africa. He was now grown 
old, and had left off the sea, having ])nt his son, who was far from a 
young man, into his ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The 
old man did not know me, and, indeed, I hardly knew him ; but I 
soon brought him to my remembrance, and as soon brought myself 
to his remembrance, when I told him who I was. 

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance, I in- 
quired, you may be sure, after my plantation and my partner. The 
old man told me he had not been in the Brazils for about nine 
years ; but that he could assure me that when he came away my 
partner was living, but the trustees, who I had joined with him to 
take cognizance of my part, were both dead ; that, however, he be- 
lieved that I would have a very good account of the improvement of 
the plantation ; for that upon the general belief of my being cast 
away and drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the pro- 
duce of my part of the plantation to the Procurator Fiscal, who had 
appropriated it in case I never came to claim it — one third to the King 
and two thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be expended 
for the benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of the Indians to 
the Catholic faith ; but that if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim 
the inheritance, it should be restored ; only that the improvement, 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 235 


or annual production, being distributed to charitable uses, could not 
be restored ; but he assured me that the steward of the King’s 
revenue (from lands) and the proviedore, or steward of the monastery, 
had taken great care all along, that the incumbent, that is to say my 
partner, gave every year a faithful account of the produce, of which 
they received duly my moiety. 

I asked him if he knew to what height of improvement he had 
brought the plantation, and whether he thought it might be worth 
looking after, or whether, on my going thither, I should meet 
with no obstruction to my possessing my just right in the moiety ? 

He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree the planta- 
tion was improved ; but this he knew, that my partner was grown 
exceeding rich upon the enjoying but one half of it ; and tliat to the 
best of his remembrance he had heard that the King’s third of my 
part, which was, it seems, granted away to some other monasteiy, 
or religious house, amounted to above two hundred moidores a year ; 
that as to my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there was 
no question to be made of that, my partner being alive to witness 
my title, and my name being also enrolled in the register of the 
country ; also he told me that the survivors of my two trustees were 
very fair honest people, and very wealthy ; and he believed I would 
not only have their assistance for putling me in possession, but would 
find a very considerable sum of money in their hands, for my account, 
being the produce of the farm while their fathers held the trust, and 
before it was given up as above, which, as he remembered, was for 
about twelve years. 

I showxd myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, 
and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the trustees 
should thus dispose my effects, when he knew that I had made my 
will, and had made him, the Portuguese captain, my universal heir, 
etc. 

He told me that was true, but that as there was no proof of my 
being dead, he could not act as executor until some certain account 
should come of my death, and that besides, he was not willing to in- 
termeddle with a thing so remote ; that it was true he had registered 
my will, and put in his claim ; and could he have given any account 
of my being dead or alive, he would have acted by procuration, and 
taken possession of the ingenio, so they called the sugar-house, and 
had given his son, who w^as now at the Brazils, order to do it. 

But, says the old man, I have one piece of news to tell you, which 
perhaps may not be so acceptable to you as the rest, and that is, 
that believing you were lost, and all the world believing so also, 
your partner and trustees did offer to account to me in your name 
for six or eight of the first years of profits, which I received ; but 
there being at that time, says he, greit disbursements for increasing 
the works, building an ingenio and buying slaves, it did not amount 
to near so much as afterwards it produced. However, says the old 



236 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

man, I shall give you a true account of what I have received in all, 
and how I have disposed of it. 

After a few days' farther conference with this ancient friend, he 
brought me an account of the six first years' income of my planta- 
tion, signed by my partner and the merchant’s trustees, being 
always delivered in goods, viz., tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, 
besides rum, molasses, etc., which is the consequence of a sugar 
work ; and I found by this account that every year the income con- 
siderably increased : but as above, the disbursement being large, the 
sum at first was small. However, the old man let mo see that he 
was debtor to me 470 moidores of gold, besides 60 chests of sugar, 
and 15 double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship; he 
having been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon about eleven years 
after my leaving the place. 

The good man theij began to complain of his misfortunes, and how 
he bad been obliged to make use of my money to recover his losses, 
and buy him a share in a new ship. However, my old friend, says 
he, you shall not want a supply in your necessity ; and as soon as 
my son returns you shall be fully satisfied. 

Upon this, he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me 160 Portugal 
moidores in gold ; and giving me the writing of his title to the ship, 
which his sou was gone to the Brazils in, of which he was a quarter 
part owner, and his son another, he puts them both into my hands 
for security of the rest. 

I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the poor 
man, to be able to bear this ; and remembering what he had done 
for me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generously he had 
used me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a friend ho 
was now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what he said to me. 
Therefore, first I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to 
spare so much money at that time, and if it would not straiten him? 
He told me he could not say but it might straiten him a little ; but 
however it was my money, and I might want it more than he. 

Everything the good man said was full of affection, and I could 
hardly refrain from tears while he spoke. In short, I took 100 of the 
moidores, and called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for 
them ; then I returned him the rest, and told him, if ever I had pos- 
session of the plantation, I would return the other to him also, as 
indeed I afterwards did ; and that as to the bill of sale of his part in 
his son's ship, I would not take it by any means ; but that if I wanted 
the money, I found he was honest enough to pay me ; and if I did 
not, but came to receive what he gave me reason to expect, I would 
never have a penny more from him. 

When this was passed, the old man began to ask me, If he should 
put me into a method to make my claim to my plantation ? I told 
him, I thought to go over to it myself. He said, I might do so if I 
pleased ; but that if I did not, there were ways enough to secure my 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 237 

right, and immediately to appropriate the profits to my use ; and as 
there were ships in the river of Lisbon, just ready to go away to 
Brazil, he made me enter my name in a public register, with his 
affidavit, affirming upon oath that I was alive, and that I was the 
same person who took up the land for the planting the said planta- 
tion at first. 

This being regularly attested by a notary, and a procuration affixed, 
he directed me to send it with a letter of his writing, to a merchant 
of his acquaintance at the place, and then proposed my staying with 
him till an account came of the return. 

Never anything was more honourable than the proceedings upon 
this procuration ; for in less than seven months I received a large 
packet from the survivors of my trustees the merchants for whose 
account I went to sea, in which were the following particular letters 
and papers enclosed. 

First, There was the account current of the produce of my farm, 
or plantation, from the year when their fathers had balanced with 
my old Portugal captain, being for six years ; the balance appeared 
to be 1174 moidores in my favour. 

Secondly, There was the account of four years more while they 
kept the effects in their hands, before the government claimed the 
administration, as being the effects of a person not to bo found, 
which they call Civil Death ; and the balance of this, the value of 
the plantation increasing, amounted to 3241 moidores. 

Thirdly, There was the prior of the Augustines’ account, who had 
received the profits for above fourteen years ; but not being to 
account for what was disposed to the hospital, very honestly declared 
he had 872 moidores not distributed, which he acknowledged to iny 
account ; as to the King’s part, that refunded nothing. 

There was a letter of my partner’s congratulating me very affection- 
ately upon my being alive, giving me an account how the estate was 
improved, and what it produced a year, with a particular of the 
number of squares or acres that it contained; how planted, how 
many slaves there were upon it, and making two-and-twenty crosses 
for blessings, told me he had said so many Ave Marias to thank the 
blessed Virgin that I was alive ; inviting mo very passionately to 
come over and tale possession of my own ; and in the meantime to 
give him orders to whom he should deliver my effects, if I did not 
come myself ; concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship, and 
that of his family, and sent me, as a present, seven fine leopards’ 
skins, 'which he had it seems received from Africa by some other 
ship which he had sent thither, and who it seems had made a better 
voyage than I. He sent me also five chests of excellent s\veetmeats, 
and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moidores. 

By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped me 1200 
chests of sugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole 
account in gold. 



238 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was better 
than the beginning. It is impossible to express here the flutterings 
of my very heart, when I looked over these letters, and especially 
when I found all my wealth about me ; for as the Brazil ships come 
all in fleets, the same ships which brought my letters brought my 
goods ; and the effects were safe in the river before the letters came 
to my hand. In a word, I turned pale, and grew sick ; and had not 
the old man run and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden sur- 
])rise of joy had overset nature, and I had died upon the spot. 

Nay, after that I continued very ill, and was so some hours, till a 
physician being sent for, and something of the real cause of my illness 
being known, he ordered me to be let blood ; after which I had 
relief, and grew well : but I verily believe, if it had not been 
cased by a vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should have 
died. 

I was now master, all on a sudden, of above £5000 sterling in 
money, and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the Brazils, of 
above a thousand pounds a year, as sure as an estate of lands in 
England ; and in a word, I was in a condition which I scarce knew 
how to understand, or how to compose myself, for the enjoyment 
of it. 

Tlie first thing I did, was to recompense my original benefactor, my 
good old captain, who had been first charitable to me in my distress, 
kind to me in my beginning, and honest to me at the end. I showed 
liim all that was sent me; I told him, that next to the providence of 
Heaven, which disposes all things, it was owing to him ; and that it 
now lay on me to reward him, which I would do a hundred- fold. So 
I first returned to him the hundred moidores I had received of him, 
then I sent for a notary, and caused him to draw up a general 
release or discharge for the 470 moidores which he had acknowledged 
lie owed me in the fullest and firmest manner possible ; after which, 
1 caused a procuration to be drawn, impowering him to be my re- 
ceiver of the annual profits of my plantation, and appointing my part- 
ner to account to him, and make the returns by the usual fleets to 
him in my name ; and a clause in the end, being a grant of 100 moi- 
dores a year to him, during his life, out of the effects, and 50 moidores 
a year to his son after him, for his life ; and thus I requited my old 
man. 

I was now to consider which way to steer my course next, and 
what to do with the estate that Providence had thus put into my 
hands ; and indeed I had more care upon my head now, than I had 
in my silent state of life in the island, where I wanted nothing but 
what I had, and had nothing but what I wanted ; whereas I had 
now a great charge upon me, and iny business was how to secure it, 
I had ne’er a cave now to hide my money in, or a place where it 
might lie without lock or key, till it grew mouldy and tarnished be- 
fore anybody would meddle with it ; on the contrary, I knew not 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 239 

where to put it, or who to trust with it. My old patron, the captain, 
indeed was honest, and that was the only refuge I had. 

In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed to summon 
me thither ; but now I could not tell how to think of going thither, 
till I had settled my affairs, and left my effects in some safe hands 
behind me. At first I thought of my old friend the widow, who I 
knew was honest, and would be just to me ; but then she was in 
years, and but poor, and, for aught I knew, might be in debt ; so 
that, in a word, I had no way but to go back to England myself, and 
take my effects with me. 

It was some months however before I resolved upon this; and there- 
fore, as I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to his satisfaction, 
who had been my former benefactor, so I began to think of my poor 
widow, whose husband had been my first benefactor, and she, 
while it was in her power, my faithful steward and instructor. So 
the first thing I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon to write to his cor- 
respondent in London, not only to pay a bill, but to go find her out, 
and carry her in money a hundred pounds from me, and to talk with 
her, and comfort her in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I 
lived, have a further supply ; at the same time I sent my two sisters 
in the country, each of them a hundred pounds, they being though 
not in want, yet not in very good circumstances ; one having been 
married and left a widow ; and the other having a husband not so 
kind to her as he should be. 

But among all my relations, or acquaintances, I could not yet 
pitch upon one to whom I durst commit the gross of my stock, that 
I might go away to the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me; and 
this greatly perplexed me. 

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have settled my- 
self there; for I was, as it were, naturalized to the place; but I had 
some little scruple in my mind about religion, which insensibly drew 
me back, of which I shall say more presently. However, it was not 
religion that kept me from going there for the present ; and as I had 
made no scruple of being openly of the religion of the country, all 
the while I was among them, so neither did I yet ; only that now 
and then having of late thought more of it (than formerly), when I 
began to think of living and dying among them, 1 began to regret 
my having professed myself a papist, and thought it might not be the 
best religion to die with. 

But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept me from 
going to the Brazils, but that really I did not know with whom to 
leave my effects behind me ; so I resolved at last to go to England 
with it, where, if I arrived, I concluded I should make some acquaint- 
ance, or find some relations that would be faithful to me ; and 
accordingly I prepared to go for England with all my wealth. 

In order to prepare things for my going home, I first, the Brazil 
fleet being just going away, resolved to give answers suitable to the 



?4o THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


just and faithful account of things I had from thence ; and first to 
the Prior of St. Augustine I wrote a letter full of thanks for their 
just dealings, and the offer of the 872 moidores, which was undisposed 
of, which I desired might be given, 500 to the monastery, and 372 to 
the poor, as the prior should direct, desiring the good padre’s prayers 
for me, and the like. 

I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all the 
acknowledgment that so much justice and honesty called for; as 
for sending them any present, they were far above having any 
occasion of it. 

Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his industry in the 
improving the plantation, and his integrity in increasing the stock 
of the works, giving him instructions for his future government of 
my part, according to the powers 1 had left with my old patron, to 
whom I desired him to send whatever became due to me, till he 
should hear from me more particularly ; assuring him that it was my 
intention, not only to come U) him, but to settle myself there for the 
remainder of my life. To this I added a very handsome present of 
some Italian silks for his wife and two daughters, for such the 
captain’s son informed me he had : with two pieces of line English 
broad-cloth, the best I could get in Lisbon, five pieces of black baise, 
and some Flanders lace of a good value. 

Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my 
effects into good bills of exchange, my next difiiculty was, which 
way to go to England. I had been accustomed enough to the sea, 
and yet I had a strange aversion to going to England by sea at that 
time; and though I could give no reason for it, yet the difficulty 
increased upon me so much, that though I had once snipped my 
baggage in order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but 
two or three times. 

It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and tin’s might be 
some of the reason. But let no man slight the strong impulses of 
his own thoughts in cases of such moment. Two of the ships 
which I had singled out to go in, I mean, more particularly singled 
out than any other — that is to say, so as in one of them to put my 
things on board, and in the other to have agreed with the captain ; 
I say, two of these ships miscarried, viz,, or.e was taken by the 
A Igervi-ef and the other was cast away on the Start near Torbay, and 
all the people drowned except tlnee ; so that in either of those 
vessels I had been made miserable ; and in which most, it was hard 
to say. 

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to whom 
I communicated everything, pressed me earnestly not to go by sea, 
but cither to go by laud to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of 
Biscay to Bochelle, from whence it was but an easy and safe journey 
by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover ; or to go up to Madrid, 
and so all the w^ay by land through France. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 24! 


In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going by sea at all, 
except from Calais to Dover, that I resolved to travel all tlie way by 
land; which as I was not in haste, and did not value the charge, was 
by much the pleasanter way ; and to make it more so, my old captain 
brought an English gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who 
was willing to travel with me. After which, we picked up two more 
English merchants also, and two young Portuguese gentlemen, the 
last going to Paris only ; so that we were in all six of us, and five 
servants ; the two merchants and the two Portuguese contenting 
themselves with one servant between two, to save the charge ; and 
as for me, I got an English sailor to travel with me as a servant, 
besides my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable 
of supplying the place of a servant on the road. 

In this manner I set out from Lisbon ; and our company being all 
very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof they 
did me the honour to call me captain, as well because I was the 
oldest man, as because I had two servants, and indeed was the 
original of tlie whole journey. 

As I have troubled you with none of my sea-journals, so I shall 
trouble you now with none of my land-journal. But some adven- 
tures that happened to us in this tedious and difficult journey, I must 
not omit. 

When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to Spain, 
were willing to stay some time to see the Court of Spain, and to see 
what was worth observing ; but it being the latter part of tlie summer, 
wo hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the middle of 
October. But when we came to the edge of Navarre, we were 
alarmed at several towns on the way, with an account, that so much 
snow was fallen on the French side of the mountains, that several 
travellers were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having 
attempted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on. 

When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so indeed ; and 
to me that had been always used to a hot climate, and indeed to 
countries where we could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was 
insufferable ; nor indeed was it more painful than it was surprising, 
to come but ten days before out of the Old Castile, where the weather 
was not only warm but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind 
from the Pyrenean mountains, so very keen, so severely cold, as to 
be intolerable, and to endanger benumbing and perishing of our 
fingers and toes. 

Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the mountains all 
covered with snow, and felt cold weather, which he had never seen 
or felt before in his life. 

To mend the matter, when we came to Pampeluna, it continued 
snowing with so much violence, and so long, that the people said, 
winter was come before its time, and the roads which were difficult 
before, were now quite impassable. For in a word, the snow lay in 



242 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


some places too thick for us to travel ; and being not hard frozen, as 
is the case in northern countries, there was no going without being 
in danger of being buried alive every step. We stayed no less than 
twenty days at Pampeluna ; when seeing the winter coming on, and 
no likelihood of its being better ; for it was the severest winter all 
over Europe that had been known in the memory of man, I proposed 
that we should all go away to Fontarabia, and there take shipping 
for Bordeaux, which was a very little voyage. 

But while we were considering this, there came in four French 
gentlemen, who having been stopped on the French side of the passes, 
as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, wlio traversing the 
country near the head of Languedoc, had brought them over the 
mountains by such ways, that they were not much incommoded with 
the snow ; and where they met with snow in any quantity, they said 
it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their horses. 

We sent for this guide, who told us, he would undertake to carry 
us the same way with no hazard from the snow, provided we were 
armed sulhciently to protect ourselves from wild beasts ; for he said, 
upon these great snows, it was frequent for some wolves to show 
themselves at the foot of the mountains, being made ravonoiis for 
want of food, tlie ground being covered with snow. We told him we 
wore well enough prepared for such creatures as they were, if he 
would ensure us from a kind of two-legged wolves, which we were 
told, we were in most danger from, especially on the French side of 
the mountains. 

He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind in the way that 
we were to go ; so we readily agreed to follow him, as did also twelve 
other gentlemen, wdth their servants, some French, some Spanish ; 
who, as I said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come back 
again. 

Accordingly, we all set out from Pampeluna, with our guide, on 
the fifteenth of November ; and indeed, I was surprised, when instead 
of going forward, he came directly back witli us, on the same road 
that we came from Madrid, above twenty miles ; when being passed 
two rivers, and come into the plain country, we found ourselves in a 
warm climate again, where the country was pleasant, and no snow 
to be seen ; but on a sudden, turning to his left, he approached the 
mountains another way ; and though it is true, the hills and pre- 
cipices looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours, such meanders, 
and led us by such winding ways, that we were insensibly passed the 
height of the mountains, without being much encumbered with the 
snow ; and all on a sudden, he showed us the pleasant fruitful pro- 
vinces of Languedoc and Gascoign, all green and flourishing ; though 
indeed it was at a great distance, and we had some rough way to 
pass yet. 

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one 
whole day, and a night, so fast, that we could not travel ; but he 



THE LIFE AFD ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 243 


bids ns be easy, we should soon be past it all. We found, indeed, 
that we began to descend every day, and to come more north than 
before ; and so depending upon our guide, we went on. 

It was about two hours before night, when our guide being some- 
thing before us, and not just in sight, out rushed three monstrous 
wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way, adjoining to a 
thick wood ; two of the wolves flew upon the guide, and had he 
been half a mile before us, he had been devoured indeed, before we 
could have helped him. One of them fastened upon his horse, and 
the other attacked the man with that violence, that he had not time, 
or not presence of mind enough to draw his pistol, but holloaed and 
cried out to us most lustily ; my man Friday being next me, I bid 
him ride up, and see what %vas the matter ; as soon as Friday came 
in sight of the man, he holloaed as loud as the other, O master ! 
O master 1 but like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor man, 
and with his pistol shot the wolf that attacked him into the head. 

It was happy for the poor man, that it was my man Friday; for 
he having been used to that kind of creature in his country, had no 
fear upon him ; but went close up to him, and shot him as above ; 
whereas any of us would have fired at a farther distance, and have 
pevliaps either missed the wolf, or endangered shooting the man. 

But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than I, and indeed 
it alarmed all our company, when with the noise of Friday’s pistol, we 
heard on botli sides tlie dismallcst howling of wolves, and the noise 
redoubled by the echo of the mountains, that it was to us as if there 
had been a prodigious multitude of them ; and perhaps indeed there 
were not such a lew, as that we had no cause of apprehensions. 

However, as Fiiday had killed this w'olf, the other that had fastened 
upon the horse, left him immediately, and fled ; having happily 
fastened upon his head, where the bosses of the bridle had stuck in 
his teeth ; so that he had not done him much hurt. The man indeed 
was most hurt; for the raging creature had bit him twice, once on 
the arm, and the other time a little above his knee ; and he was just 
as it were tumbling down by the disorder of his horse, when Friday 
came up and shot the wolf. 

It is easy to suppose, that at the noise of Friday’s pistol, we all 
mended our pace, and rid up as fast as the way (wliich was very 
difficult) would give us leave, to see what was the matter ; as soon 
as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw clearly 
what had been the case, and how Friday had disengaged the poor 
guide; though we did not presently discern what kind of creature it 
was he had killed. 

But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such a surprising 
manner, as that which followed between Friday and the bear, which 
gave us all (though at first we were surprised and afraid for him) the 
greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear is a heavy, clumsy 
-creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does, who is swift, and 

16—2 



244 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


light ; so he has two particular qualities, which generally are the 
rule of his actions ; first, as to* men, who are not his proper prey ; I 
say, not his proper prey ; because though I cannot say what exces- 
sive hunger might do, which was now their case, the ground being 
all covered with snow ; but as to men, he does not usually attempt 
them, unless they first attack him. On the contrary, if you meet 
him in the woods, if you don’t meddle with him, he won’t meddle 
with you ; but then you must take care to be very civil to him^ and 
give him the road ; for he is a very nice gentleman, he won’t go a 
step out of his way for a prince ; nay, if you are really afraid, your 
best way is to look another w'ay, and keep going on ; for sometimes 
if you stop, and stand still, and look steadily at him, he takes it for 
an affront ; but if you throw or toss anything at him, and it hits him, 
though it were but a bit of stick, as big as your finger, he takes it for 
an alfront, and sets all his other business aside to pursue his revenge; 
for he will have satisfaction in point of honour; that is his first 
quality. The next is, that if he be once affronted, he will never 
leave you, niglit or day, till he has his revenge ; but follows at a 
good round rate, till ho overtakes you. 

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up to 
him, he was helping him off from his horse ; for the man was both 
hurt and frighted, and indeed, the last more than the first ; when on 
the sudden, we spied the boar come out of the w^ood, and a vast 
monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw. We were 
all a little surprised, when we saw him ; but when Friday saw him, 
it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow’s countenance. O I 
010! says Friday, three times, pointing to him ; 0 master ! You 
give me te leave I Me shakee te hand with him. Me make you 
good laugh. 

I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased. You fool you, says I, 
he will eat you up I Eatee me up ! eatee me up I says Friday, twice 
over again ; me eatee him up. Me make you good laugh. You all 
stay here, me show you good laugh ; so down he sits, and gets his 
boots off in a moment, and puts on a pair of pumps (as we call the 
flat shoes they wear) which he had in his pocket, gives my other 
servant his horse, and with his gun away he flew swift like the wind. 

The bear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with nobody, 
till Friday coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear could under- 
stand him ; Hark ye, hark ye, says Friday, me speakee wit you. We 
followed at a distance ; for now being come down on the Gascoign 
side of the mountains, we were entered a vast great forest, where 
the country was plain, and pretty open, though many trees in it 
scattered here and there. 

Friday, who had as we say, the heels of the bear, came up with 
him quickly, and takes up a great stone, and throws at him, and hit 
him just on the head ; but did him no more harm, than if he had 
thrown it against a wall ; but it answered Friday’s end ; for the 




flUDAY’s JOY ON DISCOVERING A IlEAR.—P. 244. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 247 


rogue was so void of fear, that he did it purely to make the bear 
follow him, and show us some laugh as he called it. 

As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he turns about, 
and comes after him, taking long strides, and shuffling along at a 
strange rate, so as would have put a horse to a middling gallop ; 
away runs Friday, and takes his course, as if he ran towards us for 
help ; so we ail resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver 
my man ; though 1 was angry at him heartily, for bringing the bear 
back upon us, when he was going about his own business another 
way ; and especially 1 was angry that he had turned the bear back 
upon us, and then run away ; and I called out. You dog, said I, is 
this your making us laugh ? Come away, and take your horse, that 
we may shoot the creature ; he hears me, and cries out, No shoot, no 
shoot, stand still, you get much laugh. And as the nimble creature 
ran two foot for the beast’s one, he turned on a sudden, on one side 
of us, and seeing a great oak-tree, fit for his purpose, he beckoned to 
us to follow, and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up the tree, lay- 
ing his gun down upon the ground, at about five or six yards from 
the bottom of the tree. 

The bear soon came to the tree, and'we followed at a distance ; the 
first thing he did, he stopped at the gun, smelt to it, but let it lie, 
and up he scrambles into the tree, climbing like a cat, though so 
monstrously heavy. I was amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of 
my man, and could not for my life see anything to laugh at yet, till 
seeing the boar get uj) the tree, we all rode nearer to him. 

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the small 
end of a large limb of the tree, and the bear got about half way to 
him ; as soon as the bear got out to that part where the limb of the 
tree was weaker, Ha, says he to us, now you see me teachee the bear 
dance ; so he falls a jumping and shaking the bough, at which the 
bear began to totter, but stood still, and began to look behind him, 
to see how he should get back ; then indeed we did laugh heartily. 
But Friday had not done with him by a great deal ! when he sees 
him stand still, he calls out to him again, as if he had supposed the 
bear could speak English ; What, you no come farther, pray you 
come farther ; so he left jumping and shaking the tree ; and the bear, 
just as if he had understood what he said, did come a little further^ 
then he fell a jumping again, and the bear stopped again. 

We thought now was a good time to knock him on the head, and 
I called to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the bear ; but 
he cried out earnestly, 0 pray ! O pray ! No shoot, me shoot, by and 
then; he would have said. By and by; however, to shorten the 
story, Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that 
we were laughing enough indeed, but still could not imagine what the 
fellow would do ; for first we thought he depended upon shaking the 
bear off ; and we found the bear was too cunning for that too ; for he 
would not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast with 



248 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


his gi^eat broad claws and feet, so that we could not imagine what 
would be the end of it, and where the jest would be at last. 

But Friday put us out of doubt quickly ; for seeing the bear cling 
fast to the bough, and that he would not be persuaded to come any 
farther ; Well, well, says Friday, you no come farther, me go, me 
go ; you no come to me, me go come to you ; and upon this, he goes 
out to the smallest end of the bough, where it would bend with his 
weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding down the bougli till 
he came near enough to jump down on his feet, and away he run to 
his gun, takes it up, and stands still. 

Well, said I to him, Friday, what will you do now ? Why don't 
you shoot him? No shoot, says Fiiday, no yet, me shoot now, me 
no kill ; me stay, give you one more laugh, and, indeed, so he did, as 
you will see presently ; for when the bear sees his enemy gone, he 
comes back from the bough where he stood, but did it mighty 
leisurely, looking behind him every step, and coming backward till 
he got into the body of the tree ; then, with the same hinder end 
foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it with his claws, and 
moving one foot at a time very leisurely ; at this juncture, and just 
before he could set his hind feet upon the ground, Friday stepped up 
close to him, clapt the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him 
dead as a stone. 

Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh, and when 
he saw we were pleased by our looks, he falls a laughing himself 
very loud. So we kill bear in my country, says Friday. So you kill 
them, says I ; wdiy you have no guns. No, says he, no gun, but shoot 
much great long arrow. 

This was indeed a good diversion to us ; but we were still in a 
wild place, and our guide very much hurt, and what to do we hardly 
knew. The howling of wolves ran much in my head ; and, indeed, 
except the noise I once heard on the shore of Africa, of which I have 
said something already, I never heard anything that filled me with 
so much horror. 

These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or else, as 
Friday would have had us, we should certainly have taken the skin 
of this monstrous creature off, which was worth saving ; but we had 
three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, so we left him, and 
went forward on our journey. 

The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep and 
dangerous as on the mountains, and the ravenous creatures, as we 
heard afterwards, were come down into the forest and plain country, 
pressed by hunger to seek for food, and had done a great deal of 
mischief in the villages, where they surprised the country people, killed 
a great many of their sheep and horses, and some people too. 

We had one dangerous place to pass, which our guide told us if 
there were any more wolves in the country we should find them 
there ; and this was in a small plain, surrounded with woods on 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 249 


every side, and a long, narrow defile or lane which we were to pass 
to get through the wood, and then we should come to the village 
where we were to lodge. 

It was within half an hour of sunset when we entered the first 
wood, and a little after sunset when we came into the plain. We met 
with nothing in the first wood, except that in a little plain within the 
wood, which was not above two furlongs over, we saw five great 
wolves cross the road full speed one after another, as if they had been 
in chase of some prey, and had it in view. They took no notice of 
us, and were gone and out of our sight in a few moments. 

Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was a wretched faint- 
hearted fellow, bid us keep in a ready posture, for he believed there 
were more wolves a coming. 

We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us, but we saw no 
more wolves till we came through that wood, which was near half a 
league, and entered the plain. As soon as w^e came into the plain, 
we had occasion enough to look about us. The first object we met 
with was a dead horse, that is to say a poor horse which the wolves 
had killed, and at least a dozen of them at work, we could not say 
eating of him, but picking of his bones rather, for they had eaten up 
all the flesh before. 

We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast, neitlicr did they 
take much notice of us. Friday would have let fly at them, but I 
would not suffer him by any means ; for I found we ^vere like to have 
more business upon our hands than we were aware of. Wc were not 
gone half over the plain, but we began to hear the wolves howl in the 
wood on our left in a frightful manner, and presently after we saw 
about a hundred coming on directly towards us, all in a body, and 
most of them in a line, as regularly as an array drawn up by ex- 
perienced officers. I scarce knew in what manner to receive them ; 
but found to draw ourselves in a close line w'as the only way. So we 
formed in a moment. But that we might not have too much interval, 
I ordered that only every other man should fire, and that the others 
who had not fired should stand ready to give them a second volley 
immediately if they continued to advance upon us, and that then 
those who had fired at first should not pretend to load their fusees 
again, but stand ready with everyone a pistol — for we were all armed 
with a fusee, and a pair of pistols each man ; so we were by this 
method able to fire six volleys, half of us at a time. However, at 
present we had no necessity ; for upon firing tlie first volley, the 
enemy made a full stop, being terrified as well with the noise as with 
the fire ; four of them being shot into the head, dropped ; several 
others were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could see by the 
snow. I found they stopped, but did not immediately retreat ; where- 
upon remembering that I had been told that the fiercest creatures 
were terrified at the voice of man, I caused all our company to holloa 
as loud as they could, and I found the notion not altogether mistaken ; 




250 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


for upon our shout they began, to retire, and turn about. Then I 
ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear, which put them to 
the gallop, and away they went to the woods. 

This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again, and that we might 
lose no time, we kept going ; b^ut we had but little more than loaded 
our fusees, and put ourselves into a readiness, when we heard a 
terrible noise in the same wood, on our left, only that it was farther 
onward the same way we were to go. 

The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky, which 
made it worse on our side ; but the noise increasing, we could easily 
perceive that it was the howling and yelling of those hellish creatures ; 
and on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops of wolves, one on 
our left, one behind us, and one on our front ; so that we seemed to 
be surrounded with them ; however, as they did not fall upon us, we 
kept our way forward, as fast as we could make our horses go, which 



the way being very rough, was only a good large trot ; and in this 
manner we came in view of the entrance of a wood, through which 
we were to pass, at the farther side of the plain; but we were greatly 
surprised, when coming nearer the lane, or pass, we saw a confused 
number of wolves standing just at the entrance. 

On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the noise 
of a gun ; and looking that way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle 
and a bridle on him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen 
wolves after him, full speed ; indeed, the horse had the heels of 
them ; but as we supposed that he could not hold it at that rate we 
doubted not but they would get up with him at last, and no question 
but they did. ^ 

Bat here we had a most horrible sight ; for riding up to tho 
entrance where the horse came out, we found the carcass of another 
horse, and of two men, devoured by the ravenous creatures, and one- 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 251 

of the men was no doubt the same who we heard fire the giin ; for 
there lay a gun just by him, fired off ; but as to the man, his head, 
and the upper part of his body was eaten up. 

This filled us with horror, and we knew not what course to take, 
but the creatures resolved us soon ; for they gathered about us pre- 
sently, in hopes of prey ; and I verily believe there were three 
hundred of them. It happened very much to our advantage, that at 
the entrance into the wood, but at a little way from it, there lay 
some large timber trees, which had been cut down the summer 
before, and I suppose lay there for carriage ; I drew my little troop 
in among those trees, and placing ourselves in a line, behind one long 
tree, I advised them all to light, and keeping that tree before us, for 
a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts, enclosing our 
horses in the centre. 

We did so, and it was well we did ; for never was a more furious 
charge than the creatures made upon us in tlie place ; they came on 
us with a growling kind of a noise (and mounted the piece of timber, 
which as I said was our breastwork) as if they were only rushing 
upon their prey ; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally 
occasioned by their seeing our horses behind us, which was the prey 
they aimed at. I ordered our men to fire as before, every other 
man ; and they took their aim so sure, that indeed they killed several 
of the wolves at the first volley. 

When we had fired our second volley of our fusees, we thought 
they stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone off ; but it 
was but a moment ; for others came forward again ; so we fired two 
volleys of our pistols, and I believe in these four firings, we had killed 
seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many ; yet they 
came on again. 

I was loth to spend our last shot too hastily ; so I called my 
servant, not my man Friday, for he was better employed ; for with 
the greatest dexterity imaginable, he had charged my fusee, and his 
owm, wdiile we were engaged ; but as I said, I called my other man, 
and giving him a horn of x^owder, I bade him lay a train, all along 
the piece of timber, and let it be a large train ; he did so, and had 
but just time to get away, when the wolves came up to it, and some 
were got up upon it ; when I snapping an uncharged pistol, close to 
the powder, set it on fire ; those that were upon the timber were 
scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell, or rather jumped in 
among us, with the force and fright of the fire ; we despatched these 
in an instant, and the rest were so frighted with the light, which the 
night, for it was now very near dark, made more terrible, that they 
drew back a little. 

Upon which I ordered our last pistol to be fired off in one volley, 
and after that we gave a shout ; upon this, the wolves turned tail, 
and we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame ones, who wo 
found struggling on the ground, and fell a cutting them with our 



252 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


Bwords, which answered our expectation ; for the crying and howling 
they made, was better understood by their fellows, so that they all 
fled and left us. 

We had, first and last, killed about three score of them ; and had 
it been daylight, we had killed many more. The field of battle 
being thus cleared, wo made forward again ; for we had still near a 
league to go. We heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the 
woods as we went, several times ; and sometimes we fancied we saw 
some of them, but the snow dazzling our eyes, we were not certain ; 
so in about an hour more, we came to the town, where we were to 
lodge, which we found in a terrible fright, and all in arms ; for it 
seems, that the night before, the wolves and some bears had broke 
into tlie village in the night, and put them in a terrible fright, and 
they were obliged to keep guard night and day, but especially in the 
niglit, to preserve their cattle, and indeed their people. 

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled with 
the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go no farther ; so we 
were obliged to take a new guide there, and go to Thoulouse, where 
we found a warm climate, a fruitful pleasant country, and no snow, 
no wolves, or anything like them ; but when we told our story at 
Thoulouse, they told us it was nothing but what was ordinary in the 
great forest at the foot of the mountains, especially when the snow 
’ay on the ground. But they inquired much what kind of a guide 
we had gotten, that would venture to bring us that way in such a 
severe season ; and told us, it was very much we were not all 
devoured. When we told them how we placed ourselves, and the 
horses in the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it was 
fifty to one but we had been all destroyed ; for it was the sight of the 
horses which made the wolves so lurious, seeing their prey; and that 
at other times they are really afraid of a gun ; but they being ex- 
cessive hungry, and raging on that account, the eagerness to come 
at the horses had made them senseless of danger ; and that if we 
had not by the continued fire, and at last by the stratagem of the 
train of powder, mastered them, it had been great odds but that we 
had been torn to pieces ; whereas had wo been content to have sat 
-Still on horseback, and fired as horsemen, they would not have taken 
the horses for so much their own, when men were on their backs, as 
otherwise ; and withal they told us, that at last, if we had stood 
altogether, and left our horses, they would have been so eager to 
have devoured them, that we might liave come off safe, especially 
having our firearms in our hands, and being so many in number. 

For my part, 1 was never so sensible of danger in my life ; for 
seeing about three hundred come roaring and opened mouthed to 
devour us, and having nothing to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave my- 
self over for lost ; and as it was, I believe, I shall never care to cross 
4ihose mountains again ; I think I would much rather go a thousand 
leagues by sea, though I were sure to meet with a storm once a week. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 255 


I have nothing uncommon to take notice of, in my passage through 
France ; nothing but what other travellers have given an account of, 
with much more advantage than I can. I travelled from Thoulouse 
to Paris, and without any considerable stay, came to Calais, and 
landed safe at Dover, the fourteenth of January, after having had a 
severely cold season tod.ravel in. 

I was now come to tlie centre of my travels, and had in a little 
time all my new discovered estate safe about me, the bills of ex- 
change which I brought ^Yith mo having been very currently paid. 

My principal guide and privy counsellor wnis my good ancient 
widow, who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thouglit no 
pains too much or care too great to employ for me, and I trusted 
her so entirely wntli everything that I was perfectly easy as to the 
security of my effects ; and, indeed, I was very happy froin my be- 
ginning, and now to the end, in the unspotted integrity of this good 
gentlewoman. 

And now I began to think of leaving my effects with this woman, 
and setting out for Lisbon, and so to the Brazils ; but now another 
scruple came in my way, and that was religion ; for, as I had enter- 
tained some doubts about the Roman religion even while I was 
abroad, especially in my state of solitude, so T knew there was no 
going to the Brazils for me, much less going to settle there, unless I 
resolved to embrace the Roman Catholic religion without any re- 
serve, unless on the other hand I resolved to be a sacrilico to my 
principles, be a martyr for religion, and die in the Inquisition. So 
I resolved to stay at homo, and if I could find means for it to 
dispose of my plantation. 

To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who in return 
gave mo notice that he could easily dispose of it thei'o. But that if 
I thought fit to give him leave to offer it in my name to the two 
merchants, the survivors of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, 
who must fully understand the value of it, who lived upon the spot, 
and who I knew were very rich, so that ho believed they would be 
fond of buying it ; he did not doubt but I should make four or 
five thousand pieces of eight the more of it. 

Accordingly I agreed, gave him order to offer it to them, and he did 
so ; and in about eight months more, the ship being then returned, 
he sent me an account that they had accepted the offer, and had 
remitted 33,000 pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon 
to pay for it. 

In return I signed the instrument of sale in the form which they 
sent from Lisbon and sent it to my old man, who sent me bills of 
exchange for 32,800 pieces of eight for the estate, reserving the 
payment of 100 moidores a year to him, the old man, during his 
life, and 60 moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which I had 
promised them, which the plantation was to make good as a rent- 
charge. And thus I have given the first part of a life of fortune and 



254 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


adventure, a life of Providence’s chequer-work, and of a variety 
which the world will seldom be -able to show the like of. Beginning 
foolishly, but closing much more happily than any part of it ever 
gave me leave so much as to hope for. 

Any one would think that in this state of complicated good fortune 
I was past running any more hazards ; and so, indeed, I had been, 
if other circumstances had concurred, but I was inured to a wander- 
ing life, had no family, not many relations, nor, however rich, had I 
contracted much acquaintance ; and though 1 had sold my estate in 
tlie Brazils, yet I could not keep the country out of my liead, and 
had a great mind to be upon the wing again, especially I could not 
resist the strong inclination I had to see my island, and to know if 
the poor Spaniards were in being there, and how the rogues I had 
left there had used them. 

My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me from it, and so 
far prevailed with me that for almost seven years she prevented my 
running abroad, during which time I took my two nephews, the 
children of one of my brothers, into my care. The eldest, having 
something of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave a settle- 
ment of some addition to his estate after my decease , the other I 
put out to a caj)tain of a ship, and after five years, finding liim a 
sensible, bold, entcrpi'ising young fellow, I put him into a good ship 
and sent him to sea. And this young fellow afterwards drew me in 
as old as 1 was, to farther adventures myself. 

In the meantime I in part settled myself here ; for first of all I 
married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction, 
and had three children, two sons and one daughter. But my wife 
dying, and my nephew coming home with good success from a 
voyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad and his importunity 
prevailed, and engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to 
the Bast Indies. This was in the year 1091. 

In tliis voyage I visited my new colony in the island, saw my suc- 
cessors, the Spaniards, had the whole story of their lives, and of the 
villains I left there ; how at first they insulted the*, poor Spaniards, 
how they afterwards agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how 
at last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence with them, how 
they were subjected to the Spaniards, how honestly the Spaniards 
used them ; a history, if it were entered into, as full of variety and 
wonderful accidents as my own part, particularly also as to their 
battles with the Caribbeans, who landed several times upon the 
island, and as to the improvements they made upon the island itself, 
and how five of them made an attempt upon the mainland, and 
brought away eleven men and five women prisoners, by which at my 
coming I found about twenty young children on the island. 

Here I stayed about twenty days, left them supplies of all necessary 
things, and particularly of arms, powder, shot, clothes, tools, and two 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 255 

workmen, which I brought from England with me, viz., a carpenter 
and a smith. 

Besides this, I shared the island into parts with them, and reserved 
to myself the property of the whole, but gave them such parts re- 
spectively as they agreed on ; and having settled all things with them, 
and engaged them not to leave the place, I left them there. 

Prom thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence I sent a bark, 
which I bought there, with more people to the island; as to the 
Englishmen, I promised them to send them a good cargo of neces- 
saries, if they would apply themselves to planting, which 1 afterwards 
performed. And the fellows proved very honest and diligent after 
they were mastered, and had their properties set apart for them. I 
sent them also from the Brazils five cows, three of them being big 
with calf, some sheep, and some hogs, which, when I came again, 
were considerably increased. 

But all these things, with an account how 300 Caribbees came and 
invaded them, and ruined their plantations, and how they fought 
with that whole number twice, and were at first defeated, and three 
of them killed ; but at last a storm destroying their enemies* canoes, 
they famished or destroyed almost all the rest, and renew^ed and 
recovered the possession of their plantation, and still lived upon the 
island. 

All these things, with some very surprising incidents in some new 
adventures of my owm, for ten years more, I may perhaps give a 
farther account of hereafter. 




THE 


FARTHER ADVENTURES 

OF 

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


17 





THE PREFACE, 


3 success the former part of this work has met 
with in tho world, has yet been no other than 
is acknowledged to be due to the surprising 
variety of the subject, and to the agreeable 
manner of the perforjuanco. 

All the endeavours of envious people to reproach it with being a 
romance, to search it for errors in geography, inconsistency in the 
relation, and contradictions in the fact, have proved abortive, and 
as impotent as malicious. 

The just application of every incident, the religious and useful in- 
ferences drawn from every part, are so many testimonies to the good 
design of making it public, and must legitimate all the part that may 
be called invention, or parable in the story. 

The second part, if the editor's opinion may pass, is (contrary to 
the usage of second parts), every way as entertaining as the first, 
contains as strange and surprising incidents, and as great a variety of 

17—2 





26 o 


IlJE PREFACE, 


them ; nor is the application less serious, or suitable : aud doubtless 
will, to the sober, as well as ingenious reader, be every way as profit- 
able and diverting ; as well religious as moral, which are not only the 
greatest beauties of the work, but are calculated for the infinite 
advantage of the reader. 






THE EAT THEE ADVENTURES 

OK 

ROBINSON CRUSOE, Etc. 




riAT homely proverb used on so inan}^ occasions 
in Enj^laud, viz., That what is bred iu the bone 
will not go out of the llesh, was never more verilied 
than in the story of niy life. Any one would think 
that aft er thirty-live years’ aniiclion, and a variety 
of unliapxjy circumstances, which few men, if any, 
ever went through before, and after near seven 
years of jDeace and enjoyment iu tlie fulness of all things ; grown 
old, and when, if ever, it might be allowed me to have had experience 
of every state of middle life, and to know which was most adapted 
to make a man completely hapj)y ; I say, after all this, any one would 
have thought that the native propensity to rambling, which I gave 
an account of in my first setting out into the world, to have been so 
predominate in my thoughts, should bo worn out, the volatile part be 
fully evacuated, or at least condensed, and I might at sixt^^-ono yeai's 
of age have been a little inclined to stay at home, and have done 
venturing life and fortune any more. 

Nay farther, the common motive of foreign adventures was taken 
away in me ; for I had no fortune to make, I had nothing to seek. 
If I had gained ten thousand pound, I had been no richer ; for I 
had already sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave it to ; and 
that I had was visibly increasing; for having no great family, I could 
not spend the income of what I had, unless I would set up for an 





262 THE LIFE AND AD VENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


expensive way of living, such as a great family, servants, equipage, 
gaiety, and the like, which were things I had no notion of, or inclina- 
tion to ; so that I had nothing indeed to do but to sit still, and fully 
enjoy what I had got, and see it increase daily upon my hands. 

Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least, not enough 
to resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad again, which hung 
about me like a chronical distemper ; particularly the desire of seeing 
my new plantation in the island, and the colony I left there, run in 
my head continually. I dreamed of it all night, and my imagination 
run upon it all day ; it was uppermost in all my thoughts, and my 
fancy worked so steadily and strongly upon it, that I talked of it out 
of sleep ; in short, nothing could remove it out of my mind ; it even 
broke so violently in all my discourses that it made my conversation 
tiresome ; for I could talk of nothing else, all my discourse run into 
it, even to impertinence, and I saw it myself. 

I have often heard persons of good judgment say that all the stir 
people make in the world about ghosts and apparitions is owing to 
the strength of imagination, and the powerful operation of fancy in 
their minds ; that there is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a 
ghost walking, and the like. That peojde’s poring affectionately upon 
the past conversation of their deceased friends, so realizes it to them 
that they arc capable of fancying upon some extraordinary circum- 
stances that tliey sec them ; talk to them, and are answered by them, 
when, in truth, there is nothing but shadow and vapour in the thing, 
and they really know nothing of the matter. 

For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any such 
things as real apparitions, spectres, or walking of people after they 
are dead, or whether there is anything in the stories they tell us of 
that kind, more than the product of vapours, sick minds, and wander- 
ing fancies ; but this I know, that my imagination worked up to 
such a height, and brought mo into such ecstasies of vapours, or 
what else I may call it, that I actually supposed myself, oftentimes 
upon the spot, at my old castle behind the trees; saw my old 
Spaniard, Friday’s father, and the reprobate sailors I left upon the 
island ; nay, I fancied 1 talked with them, and looked at them so 
steadily, though I was broad awake, as at persons just before me ; 
and this I did till I often frighted myself with the images my fancy 
represented to me : one time in my sleep I had the villainy of the 
3 pirate sailors so lively related to me by the first Spaniard and 
Friday's father, that it was surprising ; they told me how they bar- 
barously attempted to murder all the Spaniards, and that they set fire 
to the provisions they had laid up, on purpose to distress and starve 
them, things that I had never heard of, and that indeed wrere never 
all of them true in fact ; but it was so warm in my imagination, 
and so realized to me, that to the hour I saw them, I could not be 
persuaded, but that it was or w'ould be true ; also how I resented 
it, when the Spaniard complained to me, and how I brought them to 





THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 263 

justice, tried them before me, and ordered them all three to be hanged ; 
whab there was really in this, shall be seen in its place ; for how- 
ever I came to form such things in my dream, and what secret 
converse of spirits injected it, yet there was very much of it true. I 
say, I own that this dream had nothing in it literally and specifi- 
cally true ; but the general part was so true, the base villainous 
behaviour of these three hardened rogues was such, and had been so 
much worse than all I can describe, that the dream had too much 
similitude of the fact ; and as I would afterwards have punished 
them severely, so if I had hanged them all, I had been much in the 
light, and should have been justifiable both by the laws of God and 
man. 

But to return to my story ; in this kind of temper I had lived 
some years, I had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant hours, no 
agreeable diversion but what had something or other of this in it ; 
so that my wife, who saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, told me 
very seriously one night, that she believed there was some secret 
powerful impulse of Providence upon me, which had determined me 
to go thitlier again ; and that she found nothing hindered my going, 
but my being engaged to a wdfe and children. She told me that it 
was true she could not think of jiarting with me ; but as she was 
assured, that if she was dead, it would be the first thing I would do ; 
so as it seemed to her, that the thing w^as determined above, she 
would not be the only obstruction ; for if I thought fit, and resolved 

to go Here she found me very intent upon her words, and that 1 

looked very earnestly at her ; so that it a little disordered her, and 
she stopped. I asked her, why she did not go on, and say out what 
she was going to say ? But I perceived her heart was too full, and 
some tears stood in her eyes. Speak out, my dear, said I. Are you 
willing 1 should go ? No ; says she very affectionately, I am far from 
willing ; but if you are resolved to go, says she, and rather than I will 
be the only hindrance, I will go with you; for though I. think it a 
most preposterous thing for one of your years, and in your condition, 
yet if it must be, said she, again weeping, I won’t leave you ; for if 
it be of Heaven, you must do it. There is no resisting it ; and if 
Heaven makes it your duty to go. He will also make it mine to go 
with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that I may not obstruct it. 

This affectionate behaviour of my wife’s brought me a little out of 
the vapours, and I began to consider what I was a doing ; I corrected 
my wandering fancy, and began to argue with myself sedately, what 
business I had after threescore years, and after such a life of 
tedious sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy and easy a 
manner, I say, what business I had to rush into new hazards, and 
put myself upon adventures, fit only for youth and poverty to run 
into. 

With those thoughts, I considered that I had all the world could 
give me, and had no need to seek hazards for gain ; that I was 



264 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


declining in years, and ought to think rather of leaving what I had 
gained, than of seeking to increase it ; that as to whac my wife had 
said, of its being an impulse from Ileaven, and that it should bo my 
duty to go, I had no notion of that; so after many of these cogitations, 

I struggled with the power of my imagination, reasoned myself out 
of it, as I believe people may always do in like cases, if they will ; 
and, in a word, I conquered it ; composed myself witli such argu- 
ments as occurred to my thought, and which my present condition 
furnished me plentifully with, and particularly, as the most eflectual 
method, 1 resolved to divert myself with otlier things, and to engage 
in some business that migljt ehectually tie me up from any more 
excursions of this kind ; for I found that thing return upon me chiefly 
when T was idle, had notliing to do, or anything of moment 
immediately before me. 

To tins purpose I bought a little farm in the county of Bedford, 
\and resolved to remove myself thither. I had a little convenient 
'|house upon it, and the land about it I found was capable of great 
'improvement, and that it was many ways suited to my inclination, 
^\hich delighted in cultivating, managing, planting, and improving 
of land ; and particularly, being an inland country, I was removed 
from conversing among ships, sailors, and things relating to th(j 
remote part of the woidd. 

In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my family, bought 
me ploughs, harrows, a cart, ^vaggoii, horses, cows, sheep ; and 
setting seriously to woik, became in one half year, a mere country 
gentleman ; my thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my 
servants, cultivating the ground, enclosing, planting, etc , and I lived, 
as I thought, the most agreeable life that Nature was capable of 
directing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes was ca^^able of 
heing reti-eated to. 

I larined upon my own land, I had no rent to pay^, was limited 
by no articles ; 1 could pull up or cut down as I pleased. What I 
planted, was for myself, and wdiat I improved, was for my family; 
and having thus kit ok the thoughts of wandering, I had not the 
least, dibcomlovt in any part of life, as to this w^oiid. Now I thought 
indeed, that 1 enjoyed the middle state of life, that ]ny father so 
CtiJ iiestly recommended to me, and lived a kind of heavenly life, 
something hke what is described by the poet upon the subject of a 
couiitvy life. 

Free from vices, free from care, 

Age has no pain, and youth no snare. 

But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unforeseen 
Providence unhinged me at once ; and not only made a breach upon 
me inevitable and incurable, but drove me, by its consequences, into 
a deep relapse into the wandering disposition, which, as I may say, 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 265 


being born in my very blood, soon recovered its hold of me, and liko 
the returns of a violent distemper, came on with an irresistible force 
upon me ; so that nothing could make any more impression upon me. 
This blow was the loss of my wife. 

It is not my bushiess here to write an elegy upon my wife, give a 
character of her particular virtues, and make my court to the sex 
by the flattery of a funeral sermon. 8]ie was, in a few words, ilie 
stay of all my affairs, the centre of all my enterprises, the engine, 
that by her x^rudence reduced me to that hax>i)y eompass I wais in, 
from the most extravagant and ruinous x)i^“oject thnt lluttei-cd in my 
head, as above; and did more to guide 3ny rambling genius, than a 
mother’s tears, a father’s instructions, a friend’s counsel, or all my 
owm reasoning X)ow’ers could do. I was happy in listening to her 
teiirs, and in being moved by her entreaties, and to the last degree 
desolate and dislocated in the w’orld by the loss of her. 

When she w-as gone, the world looked awd^w^ardly round me; I 
was as niucli a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in tlic I'razils, 
when I w'cnt first on shore th(;re ; and as much alone, exco])t as 
to the assistance of servants, as I w^as in my island. J knew neither 
what to do, or what not to do. I saw^ tljo world busy around me, one 
Xiart labouring for bread, and tiie other part squandering in vile 
(ixcesscs or empty x>leasnrcs, equally miserable, because the end they 
proposed still fled from them ; for the man of jileasiiro ev(‘ry day 
surfeited of his vice, and heaped ux) woik for sorrow’ and rox")ontanco ; 
and the men of labour rpeiit theii* slrtaigili in daily strngglings for 
bread to maintain the vital strengtli tiuw laboured witli, so living in 
a daily circulation of sorrow, living bnt to work, and working but to 
live, as if daily bread W’cre the only end of wearisome life, and a 
w’carisome life IIk', only occasion of daily bread. 

This put me in mind of the life 1 lived in my kingdom, the 
island; where I sn 11c red no more corn to grow, because I did not 
want it ; and bred no more goats, because I had no moro use for 
them. Where the money lay in the drawer till it grew mouldy, and 
had scarce the favour to be looked upon in 20 years. 

iVll these things, had 1 iinjirovcd them as 1 ought to have done, 
and as reason and religion had dictated to me, would have taught 
to me to search fartlier than human enjoyments for a full felicity, 
and tliat there was something which certainly was the reason and 
end of life, suxicrior to all tbese things, and wdiich w^as either to bo 
possessed, or at least hoped for on tliis side tlie grave. 

But my sage counsellor was gone, I was like a ship without a 
pilot, that could only run afore tlic wind. My thoughts ran all 
away again into the old affair, my head was quite turned wufch the 
whimsies of foreign adventures, and all the pleasant innocejit amuse- 
ments of my farm and my garden, my cattle, and iny family, which 
before entirely x^ossessed me, w^ere nothing to me, had no relish, and 
w^ere like music to one that has no ear, or food to one that has no 



266 TRE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


taste. In a word, I resolved to leave off housekeeping, let my farm, 
and return to London ; and in a few months after, I did so. 

When I came to London I was still as uneasy as 1 was before ; I 
had no relish for the place, no employment in it, nothing to do but 
to saunter about like an idle person, of whom it may be said, he is 
perfectly useless hi God’s creation, and it is not one farthing matter 
to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or alive. This also was 
the life wliich of all circumstances of life was the most my adversion, 
who had been all my days used to an active life ; and 1 would often 
say to myself, A state of idleness is the very dregs of life ; and, in- 
deed, I thought I was much more suitably employed when I was 26 
days making me a deal board. 

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew, 
w^hom, as I had observed before, I had brought up to the sea, and 
had made him commander of a ship, was come home from a short 
voyage to Eilboa, being the first ho had made ; and he came to me 
and told me that some merchants of his acquaintance had been pro- 
posing to him to go a voyage for them to tlie East Indies and to 
China as private traders. And now, uncle, says he, if you will go 
to sea with me T’ll engage to land you upon your old habitation in 
the island, for we are to touch at the Erazils. 

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state, and of 
the existence of an invisible world, than the concurrence of second 
causes with the ideas of things which we form in our minds, per- 
fectly reserved, and not communicated to any in the world. 

IMy nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering 
was returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in his 
thoughts to say, when that very morning before he came to mo T 
had a great deal of confusion of thought, and revolving every part of 
my circumstances in my mind, came to this resolution, viz. : that I 
would go to Lisbon, and consult with my old sea-captain ; and so if 
it was rational and xiracticablc, I would go and see the island again, 
and see what was become of my people there. I had pleased myself 
with the thoughts of peopling the place, and carrying inliabitants 
from hence, getting a patent for the possession, and I know not 
wdiat ; when in the middle of all this, in comes my nephew, as I 
have said, with his project of carrying mo thither in his way to the 
East Indies. 

I paused a while at his words, and, looking steadily at him, What, 
said I, sent you on this unlucky errand ? My nephew startled as if 
he had been frighted at first ; but ])erceiving I was not much dis- 
pleased with the proposal, he recovered himself. I hope it may not 
be an unlucky proposal, sir, says ho ; I dare say you would be 
pleased to see your new colony there, where you once reigned with 
more felicity than most of your brother monarchs in the world. 

In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to 
say, the prepossession I was under, and of which I have said so 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 267 

much, that I told him in few words if he agreed with the merchants 
I would go with him. But I told him I would not promise to go 
any farther than my own island. Why, sir, says he, you don’t want 
to be left there again, I hope? Why, said I, can you not take me 
up again in your return ? He told me it could not be possible that 
the merchants would allow him to come that way with a loaded 
ship of such value, it being a month’s sail out of Ids way, and nnght 
be three or four. Besides, sir, if I should miscarry, said he, and not 
return at all, then you would be just reduced to the condition you 
were in before. 

This was very rational ; but we both found out a remedy for it, 
which was to carry a framed sloop on board the ship, which being 
taken in pieces and shipped on board the ship might, by the help of 
some carpenters whom we agreed to carry with us, be set up again 
in the island, and hnished, lit to go to sea in a few days. 

I was not long resolving ; for indeed the importunities of my 
nephew joined in so effectually with my inclination that nothing 
could oppose me. On the other hand, my wife being dead, I hacl 
nobody concerned themselves so much for me as to persuade me one 
way or other, except my ancient good friend, the widow, who 
earnestly struggled with me to consider my years, my easy circum- 
stances, and the needless hazards of a long voyage, and, above all, 
my young children. But it was all to no purpose ; I had an irresis- 
tible desire to tlie voyage, ajid I told her I thought there was some- 
thing so uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind for the 
voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I should 
attempt to stay at home ; after which she ceased her expostulations, 
and joined with me, not only in making provision for my voyage, but 
also in settling my family affairs for my absence and providing for 
the education of my children. 

In order to this, I made my will, and settled the estate I had, in 
such a manner for my children, and placed in such hands, that I was 
perfectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done them, what- 
ever might befal me ; and for their education, I left it wholly to my 
widow, with a sufficient maintenance to herself for her care : all 
which she richly deserved ; for no motlier could have taken more 
care in their education, or understood it better ; and as she lived till 
I came home, I also lived to thank her for it. 

My iie])hew was ready to sail about the beginning of January 
1694-5, and I with my man Friday went on board in the Downs the 
8th, having besides that sloop which I mentioned above, a very con- 
siderable cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my colony, which 
if I did not find in good condition, I resolved to leave so. 

First, I carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to place 
there, as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there upon my own 
account while I stayed, and either to leave them there, or carry them 
forward as they should aj^pear willing ; particularly, I carried two 



268 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


carpenters, a smith, and a very handy ingenious fellow, who was a 
cooper by trade hut was also a general mechanic ; for he was dexterous 
at making wheels, and hand-mills to grind corn, was a good turner, 
and a good pot- maker ; he also made anything that was proper to 
make of earth, or of wood; in a word, we called him our Jack of 
all Trades. 

With tliese I carried a tailor, who had offered himself to go passenger 
to tlie East Indies with my nephew, but afterwards consented to stay 
on our now plantation, and proved a most necessary handy fellow, as 
could ho desij'od, in many other businesses, besides that of his trade; 
for as I observed formerly, necessity arms us for all employments. 

My cargo, as near as 1 can collect, for I have not kept an account 
of the ]’'articnlarR, consisted of a suflicient quantity of Imen, and some 
thin English stuffs for clothing the B])aniards that I expected to find 
there, and enough of them, as by my calculation might comlortably 
supply them for seven years. If I remember right, tlic materials f 
carried for clothing them with, gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, and all 
such things as they could want for w^earing, amounted to above 200 
pounds, including some beds, bedding, and household stuff, particu- 
larly kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, etc., and near 
a hundred pound more in ironwork, nails, tools of every kind, staples, 
hooks, hinges, and every necessary thing I could tliink of. 

I caiTied also an liundred spare arms, muskets, and fusees, besides 
some pistols, a cojisiderable quantity of shot of all sizes, a-iid two 
jiieces of brass cannon; and because I knew not what time, and 
what extreajiities I was providing for, I carried an himdred barrels of 
powder, besides swords, cutlasses, and the iron [lart of some pikes, 
and halberds ; so that in short we had a large magazine of all sorts 
of stores; and I made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck 
guns more thaji he wanted for his ship, to leave behind, if there was 
occasion ; that when we came there, we might build a fort, and man 
it against all sorts of enemies. And indeed, I at lii’st thought there 
was need enough lor it all, and iimcli more, if wo hoped to maintain 
our possession of the island, as shall be seen in the course of that 
stor> . 

1 had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been used to meet 
with ; and therefore shall have the less occasion to interrupt the 
reader, wdio jicrhaps may be impatient to hear how matters went 
with my colony ; yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad 
>veather hapj)cned, on this first setting out, which made the voyage 
longer than I expected it at first ; and I who liad never made but one 
,Vo\ago, viz., my first voyage to Guinea, in which I might be said to 
' come back again, as the voyage was at fii'st designed, began to think 
the sjime ill fate still attended me ; and that I was born to be never 
contented with being on shore, and yet to be always unfortunate at 
sea, 

Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were obliged 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 269 


to put in at Galway in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound tw£-and- 
twenty days ; but we had this satisfaction with the disaster, that 
})rovTsions here were exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty ; so 
that while we lay here, never touched the ship's stores, but rather 
added to them ; here also I took in several live hogs, and two cows, 
and calves, which I resolved, if I had a good passage, to put on shore 
ill my island, but we found occasion to dispose otherwise of them. 

We set out the 5th of February from Ireland and had a very fair 
gale of wind for some days ; as I remember, it might be about the 
20th of February in the evening late, when the mate having the 
watch, came into the round-house, and told us, he saw a flash of fire, 
and hoard a gun fired, and while he was telling us of it, a boy came 
in, and told us the boatswain heard another. This made us all run 
out upon the quarter-deck, where for a while wo heard nothing, but 
in a few minutes we saw a very great light, and found that there was 
some very terrible fire at a distance ; immediately we had recourse to 
our reckonings, in whicli we ail agreed, that tJiere could be no land 
that way, in which the fire showed itself, no not for 500 leagues, for 
it appeai’ed at W.N.W. Upon this we concluded it must be some 
ship on fire at sea ; and as by our hearing tlio noise of guns just be- 
fore, we concluded it could not be far off, we stood directly towards 
it, and were presently satisfied we should discover it, because the 
farther we sailed, the greater theliglit appeared, though the weathei* 
being hazy, we could not perceive aiiytliing but the light for a while ; 
in about half an hour’s sailing, the wind being fair for us, though not 
much of it, and the weather clearing up a little, we could plainly 
discern that it was a great ship on fire in the middle of the sea. 

I was most sensibly touched 'svith this disaster, though not at all 
acquainted with the persons engaged in it. I presently recollected 
m^ former circumstances, and in what condition 1 was in when t^iken 
up by the Portugal captain ; and how much more deplorable the 
circumstances of the poor creatures belonging to this ship must be, 
if they had no other ship in company with them. Upon this, I im- 
mediately ordered that five guns should be fired, one soon after 
another, that, if possible, we might give notice to them that there 
was hel]) for tlioin at hand, and tliat they might endeavour to save 
themselves in their boat ; for though we could sec the flames of the 
ship, yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us. 

We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning sln'i) 
drove, waiting for daylight ; when, on a sudden, to our great terror, 
though we had reason to expect it, the ship blew uj:) in the air ; and 
immediately, that is to say, in a few minutes, all the fire was out, 
tliat is to say, the rest of the ship sunk. This was a terrible and, 
indeed, an afflicting sight, for the sake of the poor men, who I con- 
cluded, must be either all destroyed in the ship, or bo in the utmost 
distress in their boat in the middle of the ocean, which at present, 
by reason it was dark, T could not see. However, to direct them as 



270 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


well as I could, I caused lights to be hung out in all the parts of the 
ship where we could, and which we had lanterns for, and kept firing 
guns all the night long, letting them know by this that there was a 
ship not far off. 

About eight o’clock in the morning w^'e discovered the ship’s boats 
by the help of our perspective glasses, and found tliere w^cro two of 
them, botli thronged with people, and deep in the water. Wo per- 
ceived they rowed, the wind being against them, that they saw our 
ship, and did their utmost to make us see them. 

We immediately spread our ancient to let them know W'e saw them, 
and hung a waft out as a signal for them to come on boai’d, and then 
made more sail, standing directly to them. In little more than half 
an liour we came up with them, and, in a word, took them all in, 
being no less than sixty-four men, women, and children ; for there 
were a great maiiy passengers. 

' ' Upon the whole we found it was a French merchant ship of 300 
ijton, homeward bound from Quebec, in the river of Canada. The 
J master gave us a long account of the distress of his slup ; liow the 
' lire b(‘gan in the steerage b^ the negligence of the steersman ; but on 
his crying out for help, was, as everybody tlioiight, entirely put out, 
when they found that some sparks of the first fire had gotten into 
some part of the ship, so dillicult to come at that they could not 
effectually quench it, till, getting in between the timbers, and within 
the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and mastered all 
the skill and all the application they were able to exert. 

They had no more to do then but to get into their boats, which, to 
their great comfort, were pretty large, being their long-boat, and a 
great shallop, besides a small skiff, which was of no great service to 
them, other than to get some fresh water and provisions into her, 
after they had secured their lives from the fire. They had, indeed, 
small hope of their lives by getting into these boats at that distance 
from any land, only, as they said well, that they were escaped from 
the fire, aTid had a possibility that some ship might happen to be at 
sea, and might take them in. They had sails, oars, and a compass, 
and w^ere preparing to make the best of their way back to Newfound- 
land, the wind blowing pretty fair, for it blew an easy gale at S.E. 
by E. They had as much provisions and water, as with sparing it 
so as to be next door to starving, might support them about twelve 
days ; in which, if they bad no bad weather, and no contrary winds, 
the captain said he hoped he might get the banks of Newfoundland, 
and might, perhaps, take some fish to sustain them till they might go 
on shore. But there were so many chances against them in all these 
cases ; such as storms to overset and founder them, rains and cold 
to benumb and perish their limbs, contrary winds to keep them out 
and starve them, that it must have been next to miraculous if they 
had escaped. 

In the midst of their consultations, every one being hopeless, and 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 271 


ready to despair, the captain with tears in his eyes told me, they 
were on a sudden surprised witli the joy of hearing a gun lire, and 
after that four more ; these wore the five guns which I caused to be 
fired at first seeing the light. This revived their hearts, and gave 
them the notice, which, as above, I desired it should, viz., that there 
was a ship at ha.nd for their help. 



THE CT.EW Ol' Tlli: EURMNO bHIP. 


It was upon the hearing these guns, that they took down their 
masts and sails ; the sound coming from the windward, they resolved 
to lie by till morning. Some time after this, hearing no more guns, 
they fired three muskets, one a considerable while after another ; but 
these, the wind being contrary, we never heard. 

Some time after that again, they were still more agreeably surprised 
with seeing our lights, and hearing the guns, w^hich, as I have said, 
I caused to be fired ail the rest of the night ; this set them to wmrk 


^72 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROF/NSON CRUSOE, 


with their oars, to keep their boats ahead, at least, that wo might 
the sooner come up with them * and at last, to their inexpressible joy 
they found we saw them. 

It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the strange 
ecstasies, the variety of postures which these poor delivered peopJo 
run into, to express the joy of their souls at so unexpected a deliver- 
ance ; grief and fear are easily described ; sighs, tears, groans, and 
a very few motions of the head and hands make up the sum of its 
variety. But an excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand 
extravagances in it; there were some in tears, some raging, and 
tearing themselves, as if they had been in the greatest agonies of 
sorrow, some stark-raving and downright lunatic, some ran about 
the ship stamping with their feet, others wringing their hands ; some 
I were dancing, some singing, some laughing, more crying ; many quite 
dumb, not able to speak a word ; others sick and vomiting, several 
swooning, and ready to faint ; and a few were crossing themselves, 
and giving God thanks. 

I would not wrong them neither, there might be many that were 
thankful afterward, but the passion was too strong for them at first, 
and they were not able to master it, they were thrown into ecstasies 
and a kind of frenzy, and it was but a very few that were composed 
and serious in tlieir joy. 

Perliaps the case may have some addition to it from the particular 
circumstance of tliat nation they belonged to, I mean the Breiich, 
whose temper is allowed to be more volatile, more passioniite, and 
more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid than in other nations. I 
am not philosopher enough to determine the cause, but nothing I 
liad ever seen before came up to it. The ecstasies poor Friday, my 
ti ubty savage, was in when he found his father in the boat, came the 
nearest to it, and the surprise of the master and his two companions 
whom I delivered from the villains that set them on shore in the 
island, came a little way towards it, but nothing was to compare to 
this, either that 1 saw in Friday, or anywhere else in my life. 

it is Uirther observable, that these extravagances did not show 
themselves in that different manner I have mentioned in different 
persons only. But all the variety would appear in a short succession 
of moments in one and the same person. A man that we saw this 
minute dumb, and as it were stupid and confounded, sliould the next 
minute be dancing and hallooing like an antic ; and the next moment 
be tearing Itis hair, or pulling Ins clothes to pieces, and stamping 
them under his feet, like a madman; and a few moments after that, 
we should have him all in tears, thtui sick, then swooning ; and had 
not immediate help been had would in a few moments more have 
been dead ; and thus it was not with one or two, or ten or twenty, 
but with the greatest part of them ; and if I remember right, our 
surgeon was obliged to let above tliirty of tliom blood. 

There were two priests among them, one an old man, and the 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 273 


other a young man ; and that which was strangest was, that the oldest 
man was the worst. As soon as he set his foot on board our ship, 
and saw himself safe, he dropped down stone-dead, not the least sign 
of life could be perceived in him ; our surgeon immediately ajpplied 
proper remedies to recover him, and was the only man in the ship 
that believed he was not dead : at length he opened a vein in his 
arm, having first chafed and rubbed the part so as to warm it as 
much as possible. Upon this the blood which only dropped at first, 
flowed something freely ; in three minutes after, the man opened his 
eyes, and about a quarter of an hour after that he spoke, grew 
better, and quite well ; after the blood was stopped, he walked 
about, told us he was perfectly well, took a dram of cordial which 
the surgeon gave him, and was what we called, come to himself ; 
about a quarter of an hour after they came running into the cabin 
to the surgeon, who was bleeding a Frenchwoman, that had fainted ; 
and told him, the priest was gone stark mad ; it seems ho had begUn 
to revolve the change of his circumstance, and again this put him 
into an ecstasy of joy, his spirits whirled about faster than the 
vessels could convey them ; the blood grow hot and feverish, and 
the man was as fit for Bedlam, as any creature that ever was in it ; 
the surgeon would not bleed him again in that condition, but gave 
him something to doze and put him to sleep, which after some time 
operated upon him, and he waked the next morning perfectly com- 
posed, and well. 

The younger priest behaved with great command of his passion, 
and was really an example of a serious well-governed mind ; at hi& 
first coming on board the ship, he threw himself flat on his face, 
prostrating himself in thankfulness for his deliverance, in which I 
unhappily and unseasonably distuibed him, really thinking he had 
been in a swoon ; but he spake calmly, thanked me, told me, he was 
giving God thanks for his deliverance, and begged me to leave him 
a few moments, and that next to his Maker he would give me thanks 
also. 

I was heartily sorry, that I disturbed him, and not only left him, but 
kept others from interrupting liim also ; he continued in that posture 
about three minutes, or little more, after I left him, then came to me, 
as he had said he would, and with a great deal of seriousness and 
affection, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me that had under 
God, given him and so many miserable creatures their lives ; I told 
him, I had no room to move him to thank God for it, rather than 
me : but I added that it was nothing but what reason and humanity 
dictated to all men, and that we had as much reason as he to give 
thanks to God, who had blessed us so far as to make us the instru- 
ments of His mercy to so many of His creatures. 

After this, the young priest applied himself to his country-folks, 
laboured to compose them ; persuaded, entreated, argued, reasoned 
with them, and did his utmost to keep them within the exercise of 



274 the life and adventures OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


their reason ; and with some he had success, though others were for 
a time out of all government of themselves. 

I cannot help committing this to writing, as perhaps it may be 
useful to those into whose hands it may fall, for the guiding them- 
selves in all the extravagances of their passions ; for if an excess of 
joy can carry men out to such a length beyond the reach of their 
reason, what will not the extravagances of anger, rage, and a pro- 
voked mind, carry us to ? and indeed here I saw reason for keeping 
an exceeding watch over our passions of every kind, as well those 
of joy and satisfaction, as those of sorrow and anger. 

We were something disordered by these extravagances among our 
new guests for the first day, but when they had been retired, lodgings 
provided for them as well as our ship would allow, and they had 
slept heartily, as most of them did, they were quite another sort of 
people the next day. 

Nothing of good manners or civil acknowledgments for the kind- 
ness shown them was wanting ; the French, it is known, are naturally 
apt to exceed that way. The captain and one of the priests came to 
me the next day, and desiring to speak with me and my nephew, 
the commander, began to consult with us what should be done with 
them ; and first they told us, that as we had saved their lives, so all 
they had was little enough for a return to us for that kindness re- 
ceived. The captain said, they had saved some money and some 
things of value in their boats, caught hastily out of the flames, 
and if we would accept it, they were ordered to make an offer of it 
all to us ; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere in our way, 
where if possible they might get passage to France. 

My nephew was for accepting their money at first word, and to 
consider what to do with them afterwards ; but I overruled him in 
that part, for I knew what it was to be sent on shore in a strange 
country ; and if the Portugal captain that took me up at sea had 
served me so, and took all I had for my deliverance, I must have 
starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I had l^een 
in Barbary, the mere being sold to a Mahometan excepted ; and 
perhaps a Portuguese is not much a better master than a Turk, if not 
in some cases a much worse. 

I therefore told the French captain that we had taken them up in 
their distress, it was true ; but that it was our duty to do so as we 
were fellow-creatures, and as we would desire to be so delivered if 
we were in the like or any other extremity ; that we had done 
nothing for them but what we believed they would have done for us, 
if we had been in their case, and they in ours ; but that we took 
them up to save them, not to plunder them ; and it would be a most 
barbarous thing to take that little from them which they saved out of 
the fire, and then set them on shore and leave them ; that this 
would be first to save them from death, and then kill them our- 
selves ; save them from drowning, and abandon them to starving ; 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 275 

and therefore I would not let the least thing be taken from them. 
As to setting them on shore, I told them indeed that was an exceed- 
ing dijQQculty to us, for that the ship was bound to the East Indies ; 
and though we were driven out of our course to the westward a very 
great way, and perhaps were directed by Heaven on purpose for their 
deliverance, yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our voyage 
on this particular account, nor could my nephew, the captain, answer 
it to the freighters, with whom he was under charter-party to pursue 
his voyage by the way of Brazils, and all I knew we could do for 
them, was to put ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships 
homeward bound from the West Indies, and get them passage, if 
possible, to England or France. 

The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they 
could not but be very thankful for it ; but they were in a very great 
consternation, especially the passengers, at the notion of being carried 
away to the East Indies, and they then entreated mo, that seeing I 
was driven so far to the westward before I met with them, I would 
at least keep on the same course to the banks of Newfoundland, 
where it was probable I might meet with some ship or sloop that 
they might hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence they 
came. 

I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and 
therefore I inclined to agree to it ; for indeed I considered that to carry 
this whole company to the East Indies would not only be an intoler- 
able severity upon the poor people, but would be ruining our whole 
voyage by devouring all our provisions ; so I thought it no breach of 
charter-party, but what an unforeseen accident made absolutely 
necessary to us, and in which no one could say we were to blame ; 
for the laws of God and Nature would have forbid that we should 
refuse to take up two boats full of people in such a distressed condi- 
tion, and the nature of the thing as well respecting ourselves as the 
poor people, obliged us to set them on shore somewhere or other for 
their deliverance. So I consented that we would carry them to 
Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit, and if not, that I 
would carry them to Martinico, in the West Indies. 

The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good, 
and as the winds had continued in the points between N.E. and 
S.E. a long time, we missed several opportunities of sending them 
to Franca ; for we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two 
were French, from St. Christopher's, but they had been so long 
beating up against the wind that they durst take in no passengers 
for fear of wanting provisions for the voyage, as well for themselves 
as for those they should take in, so we were obliged to go on. It 
was about a week after this that we made the banks of Newfound- 
land, where, to shorten my story, we put all our French people on 
board a bark, which they hired at sea, there to put them on shore, 
and afterwards to carry them to France, if they could get provision 

18—2 



276 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


to victual themselves with. ^ When I say all the French went on 
shore, I should remember that the young priest I spoke of, hearing 
we were bound to the East Indies, desired to go the voyage with us, 
and to be set on shore on the coast of Coromandel, which I readily 
agreed to, for I wonderfully liked the man, and had very good reason, 
as will appear afterwards ; also four of the seamen entered themselves 
on our ship, and proved very useful fellows. 

From hence we directed our course for the West Indies, steering 
away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together, sometimes 
little or no wind at all, when we met with another subject for our 
humanity to work upon almost as deplorable as that before. 

It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north, and the 19th 
day of March, 1694-5, when we spied a sail, our course S.E. and by 
S. We soon perceived it was a large vessel, and that she bore up 
to us, but could not at first know what to make of her, till, after 
coming a little nearer, we found she had lost her maintop-mast, fore- 
mast, and boltsprit, and presently she fired a gun as a signal of dis- 
tress ; the weather was pretty good, wind at N.N.W., a fresh gale, 
and we soon came to speak with her. 

We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes, but 
had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few days before she 
was ready to sail by a terrible hurricane while the captain and chief 
mate were both gone on shore, so that beside the terror of the storm 
they were but in an indifferent case for good artists to bring the ship 
home. They had been already nine weeks at sea, and had met with 
another terrible storm after the hurricane was over, which had blown 
them quite out of their knowledge to the westward, and in wliich 
they lost their masts as above. They told us they expected to have 
seen the Bahama Islands, but were then driven away again to the 
south-east by a strong gale of wind at N.N.W., the same that blew 
now, and having no sails to work the ship with but a main course, and 
a kind of square sail upon a jury foremast, which they set up, they 
could not lie near the wind, but were endeavouring to stand away 
for the Canaries. 

But that which was worst of all, was, that they were almost starved 
for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone ; their 
bread and flesh v/as quite gone, they had not one ounce left in the 
ship, and had had none for eleven days ; the only relief they had, 
was, their water was not all spent, and they had about half a barrel 
of flour left ; they had sugar enough ; some succades or sweetmeats 
they had at first, but they were devoured, and they had seven casks 
of rum. 

There was a youth and his mother and a maid-servant on board, 
who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail, 
unhappily came on board the evening before the hurricane began, and 
having no provisions of their own left, they were in a more deplorable 
condition than the rest, for the seamen being reduced to such an ex- 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 277 


treme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we may be sure, for 
the poor passengers, and they were indeed in a condition that their 
misery is very hard to describe. 

I had, perhaps, not known this part, if my curiosity had not led 
me, the weather being fair and the wind abated, to go on board the 
ship. The second mate who upon this occasion commanded the ship, 
had been on board our ship, and he told me indeed they had three 
passengers in the great cabin, who were in a deplorable condition ; 
nay, says he, I believe they are dead, for I have heard nothing of 
them for above two days, and I was afraid to inquire after them, said 
he, for I had nothing to relieve them with. 

We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we 
could spare ; and indeed I had so far overruled things with my 
nephew, that I would have victualled them, though wo had gone 
away to Virginia, or any part of the coast of America, to have sup- 
plied ourselves, but there was no necessity for that. 

But now they were in a new danger ; for they were afraid of eating 
too much, even of that little we gave them ; the mate or commander 
brought six men with him in his boat, but these poor wretches looked 
like skeletons, and were so weak, they could hardly sit to their oars. 
The mate himself was very ill, and half starved ; for he declared he 
had reserved nothing from the men, and went share and share alike 
with them in every bit they eat. 

I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him imme- 
diately, and he had not eaten throe mouthfuls before ho began to be 
sick, and out of order ; so he stopped a while, and our surgeon mixed 
him up something with some broth, which he said would be to him 
both food and physic ; and after he had taken it, he grew better. In 
the meantime, I forgot not the men; I ordered victuals to bo given 
them, and the poor creatures rather devoured than eat it ; they were 
so exceeding hungry, that they were in a kind ravenous, and had no 
command of themselves ; and two of them eat with so much greedi- 
ness, that they wore in danger of their lives the next morning. 

The sight of these people’s distress was very moving to me, and 
brought to mind what I had a terrible prospect of at my first coming 
on shore in the island, where I had neither the least mouthful of 
food, or any prospect of procuring any ; besides the hourly appre- 
hension I had of being made the food of other creatures. But all 
the while the mate was thus relating to me the miserable condition 
of the ship’s company, I could not put out of my thought the story 
he had told me of the three poor creatures in the great cabin, viz., 
the mother, her son, and the maid-servant, whom he had heard 
nothing of for two or three days, and whom he seemed to confess 
they had wholly neglected, their own extremities being so great ; by 
which I understood, that they had really given them no food at all, 
and that therefore they must be perished, and be all lying dead 
perhaps on the floor, or deck of the cabin. 



278 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on 
board with the men to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starving 
crew that were left on board, ‘but ordered my own boat to go on 
board the ship, and with my mate and twelve men to carry them a 
sack of bread, and four or five pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon 
charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they stayed, 
and to keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent the men taking it to 
eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was well boiled, and 
then to give every man but a very little at a time ; and by this caution 
he preserved the men, who would otherwise have killed themselves 
with that very food that was given them on purpose to save their 
lives. 

At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin, 
and see what condition the poor passengers were in, and if they 
were alive, to comfort them, and give them what refreshment was 
proper ; and the surgeon gave him a largo pitcher with some of the 
prepared broth which he had given the mate that was on board, and 
which he did not question would restore them gradually. 

I was not satisfied with this, but as 1 said above, having a great 
mind to see the scene of misery, which I knew the ship itself would 
present me with, in a more lively manner than I could have it by 
report, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, with 
me, and went myself a little after in their boat. 

I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult to get the 
victuals out of the boiler before he was ready. But my mate observed 
his order, and kept a good guard at the cook-room door, and the 
man he placed there, after using all possible persuasion to have 
patience, kept them off by force. However, he caused some biscuit 
cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened wH-h the liquor of the 
meat, which they call brews, and gave them every one, one, to stay 
their stomachs, and told them it was for their own safety that he was 
obliged to give them but a little at a time. But it was all in vain ; 
and had I not come on board, and their own commander and officers 
with me, and with good words, and some threats also of giving them 
no more, I believe they would have broke into the cook-room by 
force, and tore the meat out of the furnace. For words are indeed 
of very small force to a hungry stomach. However, we pacified them, 
and fed them gradually and cautiously for the first time, and the 
next time gave them more, and at last filled their stomachs, and the 
men did well enough. 

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin, was of another 
nature, and far beyond the rest ; for as first the ship's company had 
BO little for themselves, it was but too true that they had at first 
kept them very low, and at last totally neglected them ; so that for 
six or seven days, it might be said, they had really had no food at 
all, and for several days before very little. The poor mother, who, 
as the men reported, was a woman of good sense and good breeding, 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 279 

bad spared all she could get, so affectionately for her son, that at 
last she entirely sunk under it. And when the mate of our ship 
went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with her back up against 
the sides, between two chairs, which were lashed fast, and her head 
sunk in between her shoulders, like a corpse, though not quite dead. 
My mate said all he could to revive and encourage her, and with a 
spoon put some broth into her mouth ; she opened her lips, and 
lifted up one band, but could not speak ; yet she understood what 
he said, and made signs to him, intimating, that it was too late for 
her, but pointed to her child, as if she would have said, they should 
take care of him. 

However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved with the sight, 
endeavoured to get some of the broth into her mouth ; and as he 
said, got two or three spoonfuls down, though I question whether 
he could be sure of it or not. But it was too late, and she died the 
same night. 

The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most affectionate 
mother’s life, was not so far gone, yet he lay in a cabin-bed as one 
stretched out, with hardly any life left in him ; be had a piece of an 
old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it ; however, 
being young, and having more strength than his mother, the mate 
got something down his throat, and he began sensibly to revive, 
though by giving him some time after but two or three spoonfuls 
extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought it up again. 

But the next care was the poor maid, she lay all along upon the 
deck hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen down 
with an apoplexy and struggled for life. Her limbs were distorted, 
one of her hands was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she 
gripped it so hard, that we could not easily make her let go ; her other 
aim lay over her head, and her feet lay both together set fast against 
the frame of the cabin table ; in short, she lay just like one in the 
last agonies of death, and yet she was alive too. 

The poor creature w^as not only starved with hunger, and terrified 
with the thoughts of death, but as the men told us afterwards, was 
broken-hearted for her mistress, whom she saw dying for two or three 
days before, and whom she loved most tenderly. 

We knew not what to do with this poor girl, or when our surgeon, 
who was a man of very great knowledge and experience, had with 
great application recovered her as to life ; he had her upon his hand 
as to her senses, for she was little less than distracted for a con- 
siderable time after, as shall appear presently. 

^ Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired to con- 
sider that visits at sea are not like a journey into the country, where 
sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a place. Our busi- 
ness was to relieve this distressed ship’s crew, but not to lie by for 
them ; and though they were willing to steer the same course with 
us for some days, yet we could carry no sail to keep pace with a 




2So THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


ship that had no masts ; however, as their captain begged of us to 
help him to set up a maintop-mast, and a kind of a top-mast to his 
jury fore-mast, we did, as it were, lie by him for three or four days, 
and then, having given him five barrels of beef, a barrel of pork, two 
hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas, flour, and what other 
things we could spare, and taking three casks of sugar, some rum, 
and some pieces of eight of them for satisfaction, we left them, taking 
on board with us, at their own earnest request, the priest, the youth, 
and the maid, and all their goods. 

The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a pretty, well- 
bred, modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejected with the loss of 
his mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father but a few months 
before at Barbadoes. He begged of the surgeon to speak to me to 
take him out of the ship, for he said the cruel fellows had murdered 
his mother ; and, indeed, so they had, that is to say, passively — for 
they might have spared a small sustenance to the poor, helpless 
widow, that might have preserved her life, though it had been but 
just to keep her alive. But hunger knows no friend, no relation, no 
justice, no right, and therefore is remorseless, and capable of no 
compassion. 

The surgeon told him how far we were going, and how it would 
carry him away from all his friends, and put him perhaps in as bad 
circumstances almost as those we found him in ; that is to say, 
starving in the world. He said it mattered not whither he went if 
he was but delivered from the terrible crew he was among. That 
the captain (by which he meant me, for he could know nothing of 
my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure would not hurt 
him ; and as for the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself, she 
would be very thankful for it, let us carry them where we would. 
The surgeon represented the case so affectionately to me that I 
yielded, and we took them both on board with all their goods, except 
eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could not be removed, or come at, 
and as the youth had a bill of lading for them I made his commander 
sign a writing, obliging himself to go as soon as he came to Bristol 
to one Mr. Eogers, a merchant there, to whom the youth said he 
was related, and to deliver a letter which I wrote to him, and all 
the goods he had belonging to the deceased widow — which I suppose 
was not done, for I could never learn that the ship came to Bristol, 
but was, as is most probable, lost at sea, being in so disabled a con- 
dition and so far from any land that I am of opinion the first storm 
she met with afterwards she might founder in the sea, for she was 
leaky, and had damage in her hold when we met with her. 

I was now in the latitude of 19 degrees 32 minutes, and had 
hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather, though at first the 
winds had been contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the little in- 
cidents of wind, weather, currents, etc., on the rest of our voyage ; 
but shortening my story for the sake of what is to follow, shall 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 281 


observe that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the lOt^of 
April, 1695. It was with no small difficulty that I found the place ; 
for as I came to it, and went from it before, on the south and east 
side of the island a^ coming from the Brazils, so now coming in 
between the main and the island, and having no chart for the coast, 
nor any landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whether 
I saw it or no. 

We beat about a great while, and went on shore on several islands 
in the mouth of the great Eiver Oronooque, but none for my purpose. 
Only this I learned by my coasting the shore, that I was under one 
great mistake before, viz., that the continent which I thought I saw 
from the island I lived in was really no continent, but a long island, 
or rather a ridge of islands, reaching from one to the other side of 
the extended mouth of that great river, and that the savages who 
came to my island were not properly those which we call Caribbees, 
but islanders, and other barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited 
something nearer to our side than the rest. 

In short, I visited several of these islands to no purpose ; some I 
found were inhabited, and some were not. On one of them I found 
some Spaniards, and thought they had lived there, but speaking with 
them, found they had a sloop lay in a creek hard by, and they came 
thither to make salt, and to catch some pearl mussels if they could, 
but that they belonged to the Isle de Trinidad, which lay farther 
north, in the latitude of 10 and 11 degrees. 

But at last coasting from one island to anotlier, sometimes with 
the ship, sometimes with the Frenchman’s shallop, which wo had 
found a convenient boat, and therefore kept lier with their very good 
will ; at length I came fair on the south side of my island, and I 
presently knew the very countenance of the place ; so I brought the 
ship safe to an anchor, broadside with the little creek where was my 
old habitation. 

As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked him if 
he knew where he was? He looked about a little, and presently 
clapping his hands, cried : Oh yes, oh there, oh yes, oh there I point- 
ing to our old habitation, and fell a dancing and capering like a mad 
fellow, and I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, 
to swim ashore to the place. 

Well, Friday, says I, do you think we shall find anybody here or 
no ? And what do you think, shall we see your father ? The fellow 
stood mute as a stock a good while, but when I named his father, 
the poor affectionate creature looked dejected, and I could see the 
tears run down his face very plentifully. What is the matter, Friday, 
says I ? Are you troubled because you may see your father ? No, 
no, says he, shaking his head, no see him more, no ever more see 
again. Why so, said I, Friday, how do you know that ? Oh no, oh 
no, says Friday, he long ago die, long ago ; he much old man. Well, 
well, says I, Friday, you don’t know ; but shall we see any one else 



282 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


then ? The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than I, and he points 
just to the hill above my old house ; and though we lay half a league 
off, he cries out. We see I we see ! yes, we see much men there, and 
there, and there. I looked, but I could see nobody, no not with a 
perspective glass, which was, I suppose, because I could not hit the 
place, for the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the next day, 
and there was five or six men altogether, stood to look at the ship, 
not knowing what to think of us. 

As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused the English 
ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them notice we 
were friends, and in about half a quarter of an hour after, we per- 
ceived a smoke rise from the side of the creek, so I immediately 
ordered a boat out, taking Friday with me, and hanging out a white 
flag, or flag of truce, I went directly on shore, taking with me the 
young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told the whole story of my 
living there, and the manner of it, and every particular both of my- 
self, and those I left there ; and who was on that account extremely 
desirous to go with me. We had besides about sixteen men very 
well armed, if we had found any new guests there which we did not 
know of ; but we had no need of weapons. 

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water, we 
rowed directly into the creek, and the first man I fixed my eye upon, 
was the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and whom I knew by his 
face perfectly well ; as to his habit I shall describe it afterwards. I 
ordered nobody to go on shore at first but myself, but there was no 
keeping Friday in the boat ; for the affectionate creature had spied 
his father at a distance, a good way off of the Spaniards, where 
indeed I saw nothing of him ; and if they had not let him go on 
shore, he would have jumped into the sea. He was no sooner 
on shore, but he flew away to his father like an arrow out of a bow. 
It would have made any man have shed tears in spite of the firmest 
resolution, to have seen the first transports of this poor fellow’s joy 
when he came to his father; how he embraced him, kissed him, 
stroked his face, took him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree, 
and lay down by him, then stood and looked at him, as any one 
would look at a strange picture for a quarter of an hour together ; 
then lie down on the ground, and stroke his legs, and kiss them, and 
then get up again, and stare at him ; one would have thought the 
fellow bewitched. But it would have made a dog laugh to see how 
the next day his passion run out another way. In the morning he 
walked along the shore, to and again, with his father several hours, 
always leading him by the hand, as if he had been a lady; and every 
now and then ho would come to fetch something or other for him to 
the boat, either a lump of sugar, or a dram, a biscuit cake, or some- 
thing or other that was good. In the afternoon his frolics run an- 
other way ; for then he would set the old man down upon the ground, 
and dance about him, and make a thousand antic postures and 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 283 

gestures ; and all the while he did this, he would be talking to him, 
and telling him one story or another of his travels, and of what had 
happened to him abroad, to divert him. In short, if the same filial 
affection was to be found in Christians to their parents, in our part 
of the wwld, one would bo tempted to say, there would hardly have 
been any need of the fifth commandment. 



CKDSOE AMD TBC SPAM.AKD MMEXIMO. 


But this is a digression ; I return to my landing. It would be 
endless to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that the 
Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard whom, as I said, I 
knew very well, was he whose life I had saved ; he came towards 



284 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


the boat, attended by one more, carrying a flag of truce also, and 
he did not only not know me at first, but he had no thoughts, no 
notion of its being me that was come till I spoke to him. Seignior, 
said I, in Portuguese, do you not know me ? At which he spoke not 
a word ; but, giving his musket to the man that was with him, thre^7 
his arms abroad, and, saying something in Spanish, that I did not 
perfectly hear, comes forward and embraced me, telling me he was 
inexcusable not to know that face again that ho had once seen as of 
an angel from Heaven sent to save his life. He said abundance of 
very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard always knows how ; 
and then beckoning to the person that attended him bade him go 
and call out his comrades. He then asked me if I would walk to 
my old habitation, where he would give me possession of my own 
house again, and where I should see there had been but mean im- 
provements ; so I walked along with him ; but, alas, I could no 
more find the place again than if I had never been there ; for they 
had planted so many trees, and placed them in such a posture, so 
thick and close to one another ; and in ten years’ time they were 
grown so big that, in short, the place was inaccessible, except by 
such windiiigs and blind ways as they themselves only, who made 
them, could find. 

I asked them what put them upon all these fortifications? He 
told me I would say there was need enough of it when they had given 
me an account how they had passed their time since their arriving in 
the island, especially after they had the misfortune to find that I was 
gone. He told me he could not but have some satisfaction in my 
good fortune when he heard that I was gone away in a good ship, 
and to my satisfaction ; and that he had oftentimes a strong per- 
suasion that one time or other he should see mo again. But nothing 
that ever befel him in his life, he said, was so surprising and afflict- 
ing to him at first as the disappointment he was under when he 
came back to the island and found I was not there. 

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left 
behind, and of whom he said he had a long story to tell me ; the 
Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the savages, 
only that their number was so small. And, says he, had they been 
strong enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory, and with 
that he crossed himself on the breast. But sir, says he, I hope you 
will not be displeased when I shall tell you how forced by necessity 
we wore obliged, for our own preservation, to disarm them, and make 
them our subjects, who would not be content with being moderately 
our masters, but would be our murderers. I answered I was heartily 
afraid of it when I left them there ; and nothing troubled me at my 
parting from the island but that they were not come back that I 
might have put them in possession of everything first, and left the 
other in a state of subjection as they deserved. But if they had 
reduced them to it, I was very glad, and should be very far from 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 285 


finding any fault with it ; for I knew they were a parcel of refractory, 
ungoverned villains, aud were fit for any manner of mischief. 

While I was saying this, came the man whom he had sent back, 
and with him eleven men more. In the dress they were in, it was 
impossible to guess what nation they were of : but ho made all clear 
both to them and to me. First ho turned to me, and pointing to them, 
said, These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe their lives to 
you ; and then turning to them, and pointing to me, he let them 
know who I was ; upon which they all came up one by one, not as if 
they had been sailors and ordinary fellows, and I the like, but really, 
as if they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I a monarch or a 
great conqueror ; their behaviour was to the last degree obliging and 
courteous, and yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, which very 
well became them ; and in short, they had so much more manners 
than I, that I scarce know how to receive their civilities, much less 
how to return them in kind. 

The history of their coming to, and conduct in the island, after 
my going away, is so very remarkable, and has so many incidents, 
whicli the former part of my relation will help to understand, and 
which will in most of the particulars, refer to that account I have 
already given, that I cannot but commit them with great delight to 
the reading of those that come after me. 

I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first 
person, which will put me to the expense of ten thousand said I's, 
and said he's, and he told me's, and I told hira’s, and the like, but 
I shall collect the facts historically, as near as I can gather them out 
of my memory from what they related to mo, and from what I met 
with in my conversing with them and with the place. 

In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I can, I must 
go back to the circumstance in v/hich I left the island, and in which 
the persons were of whom I am to speak. And first, it is necessary 
to repeat, that I had sent away Friday's father and the Spaniard, the 
two whose lives I had rescued from the savages ; I say, I had sent 
them away in a large canoe to the main, as I then thought it, to fetch 
over the Spaniard’s companions who he had left behind him, in 
order to saye them from the like calamity that he had been in, and 
in^ order to succour them for the present, and that if possible, we 
might together find some way for our deliverance afterward. 

When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or the 
least room to hope for my own deliverance any more than I had 
twenty years before, much less had I any foreknowledge of what 
afterwards happened, I mean of an English ship coming on shore 
there to fetch me off ; and it could but be a very great surprise to 
them when they came back, not only to find that I was gone, but to 
find^ three strangers left on the spot, possessed of all that I had left 
behind me, which would otherwise have been their own. 

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might begin 



286 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


where I left off, was of their own part ; and I desired he would give 
me a particular account of his voyage back to his countrymen with 
the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over. He told me there 
was little variety in that part, for nothing remarkable happened to 
them on the way, they having very calm weather, and a smooth 
sea ; for his countrymen it could not be doubted, he said, but that they 
were overjoyed to see him (it seems he was the principal man 
among them, the captain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked in, 
having been dead some time) : they were, he said, the more surprised 
to see him, because they knew that he was fallen into the hands of the 
savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him as they did all 
the rest of the prisoners ; that when he told them the story of his 
deliverance, and in what manner he was furnished for carrying them 
away, it was like a dream to them ; and their astonishment, they 
said, was something like that of Joseph’s brethren, when he told them 
who he was, and told them the story of his exaltation in Pharaoh’s 
court. But when he showed them the arms, the powder, the ball, 
and toe provisions that he brought them for their journey or voyage, 
they were restored to themselves, took a just share of the joy 
of their deliverance, and immediately prepared to come away with 
him. 

Their first business was to get canoes ; and in this they were 
obliged not to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but to 
trespass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow two large 
canoes, or periaguas, on pretence of going out a fishing, or for 
pleasure. 

In these they came away the next morning ; it seems they wanted 
no time to get themselves ready ; for they had no baggage, neither 
clothes or provisions, or anything in the world, but what they had 
on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to make their 
bread. 

They were in all three weeks absent, and in that time, unluckily 
for them, I had the occasion offered for my escape, as I mentioned 
in my other part, and to get off from the island, leaving three of the 
most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains behind 
me, that any man could desire to meet with, to the poor Spaniards’ 
great grief and disappointment, you may be sure. 

The only just thing the rogues did, was, that when the Spaniards 
came on shore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them pro- 
visions and other rehef , as I had ordered them to do ; also they gave 
them the long i^aper of directions which I had left with them, con- 
taining the particular methods which I took for managing every part 
of my life there, the way how I baked my bread, bred up tame 
goats, and planted my corn, how I cured my grapes, made my pots, 
and, in a word, everything I did. All this being written down, they 
gave to the Spaniards, two of whom understood English well enough ; 
nor did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with everything 





THE SPANIARDS CROSS THE SEA TO RESCUE THEIR COUNTRYMEN. — P. 285. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 289 


else, for they agreed very well for some time ; they gave the;ji an 
equal admission into the house, or cave, and they began to liv^ very 
sociably, and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my 
methods, and Friday’s father together, managed all their affairs ; ' for, 
as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island, 
shoot parrots, and catch tortoises, and when they came home 4 t 
night, the Spaniards provided their suppers for them. 

The Spaniards would have been satislied with this, would the other 
but have let them alone, which, however, they could not find in their 
hearts to do long; but like the dog in the manger, they would ^not 
eat themselves, and would not let others eat neither. The differ- 
ences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and such as are not 
worth relating ; but at last it broke out into open war, and it begun 
with all the rudeness and insolence that can be imagined, without 
reason, without provocation, contrary to Nature, aud indeed, to 
common sense ; and though it is true the first relation of it came 
from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the accusers, yet 
when I came to examine the fellows, they could not deny a word 
of it. 

But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply a 
defect ill my former relation, aud this was, that 1 forgot to set down 
among the rest, that just as wo were weigliing the anclior to set sail, 
there Jiappened a little quarrel on board our ship, which 1 was afraid 
once would have turned to a second mutiny ; nor was it appeased, 
till the captain rousing up his courage, and taking us all to his assist- 
ance, parted them by force, and making two of the most refractory 
fellows jirisoners, he laid them in irons, and as they had been 
active in the former disorders, and let fall some ugly dangerous 
words the second time, lie threatened to carry them in irons to 
Ihigland, and have them hanged thei’c for mutiny, and running away 
with the ship. 

This, it scorns, though the captain did not intend to do it, friglited 
come other men in the ship, and some of them had put it into the 
heads of the rest, that the captain only gave them good words for the 
present, till they should come to some English port, and that then 
they should be all put into jail, and tried for their lives. 

The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it ; upon 
which it was desired, that 1, who still passed for a great man among 
them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy tlie men, and tell 
them, that they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of the 
voyage, all they had done for the time past should be pardoned. So 
1 went, and after passing my honour’s word to them, they appeared 
easy; and the more so, when I caused the two men, wiio were in 
irons, to be released and forgiven. 

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night. The 
wind also falling calm, next morning we found that our two men, who 
had been laid in irons, had stole each of them a musket, and some 


290 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


other weapons — what powder or shot they had, we know not —and 
had taken the ship’s pinnace, which was not yet hauled up, and ran 
away with her to their companions in roguery on shore. 

As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on shore, with 
twelve men and the mate, and away they went to seek the rogues ; 
but they could neither hnd them, nor any of the rest, for they all lied 
into the woods when they saw the boat coming on sliore. The mate 
was once resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their 
plantations, burnt all their household stuff and furniture, and left 
them to shift without it ; but, having no order, he let it all alone, left 
everything as they found it, and, bringing the pinnace away, came on 
board without them. 

These two men made their number five ; but the other three villains 
were so much wickeder than these, that after they had been two or 
three days together, they turned their two newcomers out of doors 
to shift for themselves, and would have nothing to do with them, nor 
could they for a good while be persuaded to give them any food. As 
for the Spaniards, they were not yet come. 

When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to go 
forward. The Spaniards would have persuaded the three Mnglisfi 
brutes to have taken in their two countrymen again, that, as they saiil, 
they might be all one family ; but they would not hear of it. So the 
two poor fellows lived by themselves, and finding nobliing but in- 
dustry and application would make them live comfortably, they 
pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, but a little more 
on the west, to be out of the danger of the savages, who always 
landed on the east parts of the island. 

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to 
lay up their magazines and stores in, and the Spaniards having given 
them some corn for food, and especially some of the peas which I had 
left them, they dug, and planted, and enclosed, after the pattern I 
had set for them ail, and began to live pretty well ; their first crop of 
corn was on the ground, and though it was but a little bit of land 
which they had dug up at first, having had but a little time, yet it 
was enough to relieve them, and find them with bread and other 
eatables ; and one of the fellows, being the cook’s mate of the ship, 
was very ready at making soup, puddings, and other such prepara- 
tions, as the rice, and the milk, and such little flesh as they got, 
furnished him to do. 

They were going on in this little thriving posture when the three 
unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere- humour, and 
I to insult them, came and bullied them, and told them the island was 
I theirs, that the governor, meaning me, had given them possession of 
I it, and nobody else had any right to it, and they should build no 
houses upon their ground, unless they would pay them rent for them. 

The two men thought they had jested at first, asked them to come 
in and sit down, and see what fine houses they were that they had 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 291 


built, and tell them what rent they demanded ; and one of them 
merrily told them if they were ground landlords he hoped, if they 
built tenements upon their land, and made improvements, they would, 
according to the custom of landlords, grant them a long lease, and 
bid them go fetch a scrivener to draw the writings. One of the three 
told them they should see they w^ere not in jest, and going to a little 
place at a distance, wheTe the honest men had made a fire to dress 
their victuals, he takes a firebrand, and claps it to the outside of 
their hut, and very fairly set it on fire, and it would have been all 
burnt down in a few minutes if one of the two had not run to the 
fellow, thrust him away, and trod the fire out with his feet, and that 
not without some difficulty too. 

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man’s thrusting him 
away, that he returned upon him with a pole he bad in his hand, and 
had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into the hut, 
ho had ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing tlie danger 
they were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they came both 
out with their muskets, and the man that was first struck at with 
the pole, knocked the fellow down that begun the quarrel with the 
stock of his musket, and that before the other two could come to 
help him, and then, seeing the rest come at them, they stood together, 
and presenting the other ends of their pieces to them, bid them 
stand off. 

The other had firearms with them too, but one of tlie two honest 
men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his danger, 
told them, if they offered to move hand or foot they 'were dead men, 
and boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. They did not 
indeed lay down their arms, but seeing him so resolute, it brought 
them to a parley, and they consented to take their wounded man 
witn them, and be gone ; and, indeed, it seems the fellow w'as 
wounded sufficiently with the blow. However, they were much in 
the wrong, since they had the advantage that they did not disarm 
them effectually, as tlicy might have done, and have gone immediately 
to the Spaniards, and given them an account how the rogues had 
treated them ; for the three villains studied nothing but revenge, and 
•every day gave them some intimation that they did so. 

But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part of 
their rogueries, such as treading down their corn, shooting three 
young kids and a she-goat, which the poor men had got to breed up 
tame for their store ; and, in a word, plaguing them night and day 
in this manner, it forced the two men to such a desperation, that 
they resolved to fight them all three the first time they had a fair 
opportunity. In order to this they resolved to go to the castle, as 
they called it, that was my old dwelling, where the three rogues and 
the Spaniards all lived together, at that time intending to have a fair 
battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to see fair play : so they 
igot up in the morning before day, and came to the place, and called 

i9--2 



292 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


the Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard, that answered, 
that they wanted to speak with them. 

It happened, that the (Jay before two of the Spaniards having 
been in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, for 
distinction, I call the honest men, and he had made a sad complaint 
to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met with from 
their three countrymen, and how they had ruined their plantation, 
and destroyed their corn that they had laboured so hard to bring 
forward, and killed the milch-goat and their three kids, which was all 
they ha<J provided for their sustenance, and that if he and his friends, 
meaning the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they should be 
starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, and they were 
all at supper, he took the freedom to reprove the three Englishmen, 
though in very gentle and mannerly terms, and asked them, How 
they could be so cruel, they being harmless inoffensive fellows, and 
that they were only putting themselves in a way to subsist by their 
labour, and that it had cost them a great deal of pains to bring 
things to such perfection as they had? 

One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, what had they to do 
there ? That they came on shore without leave, and they should not 
])laiit or build upon the island, it was none of their ground. Why, 
says the Spaniard very calmly. Seignior Inglese, they must not starve. 
The Englishman replied. They might starve, and they should not 
plant nor build. But what must they do then, seignior? said the 
Spaniard. Another of the brutes returned, Do ! they should be 
servants, and work for them. But how can you expect that of them ? 
says the Spaniard, they are not bought with your money ; you have 
no right to make them servants. The Englishman answered, the 
island was theirs, the governor had given it to them, and no man 
had anything to do there but themselves ; and with that swore by 
his Maker that they w^ould go and burn all their new huts ; they 
should build none upon their land. 

Why, seignior, says the Spaniard, by the same rule we must be 
your servants too. Ah, says the bold dog, and so you shall too, 
before we have done with you ; the Spaniard only smiled at that, 
and made him no answ^er. However, this little discourse had heated 
them, and starting up, one says to the otlier, I think it was ho they 
called Will Atkins, Come, Jack, let us go and have t’other brush 
wuth them ; we’ll demolisli their castle. I’ll warrant you ; they shall 
plant no colony in our dominions. 

Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a gun, a 
pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among them- 
selves, of what they would do to the Spaniards too when opportunity 
offered ; but the Spaniards it seems did not so perfectly understand 
them as to know all the particulars, only tliat, in general, they 
threatened them hard for taking the two Englishmen’s part. 

Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that evening, 



the life and adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 293 


tho Spaniards said they did not know ; but it seems they wandered 
about the country part of the night, and then, lying down in the 
place which I used to call my bower, they were weary, and overslept 
themselves. The case was this, they had resolved to stay till mid- 
night, and so to take the two poor men when they were asleep, and 
as they acknowledged afterwards, intended to set fire to their huts 
while they were in them, and either burn them in them, or murder 
them as they came out ; and as malice seldom sleeps very sound, it 
was very strange they should not have been kept waking. 

However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I have 
said, though a much fairer one than tliat of burning and murdering, 
it ha])pened, and very luckily for them all, that they were up and 
gone abroad, before the rogues came to their huts. 

When they came there and found the men gone, Atkins, who it 
seems was the forwardest man, called out to his comrades, Ha ! Jack, 
here’s tlie nest, but the birds arc fiown ; they mused a while to think 
what should be the occasion of their being gone abroad so soon, and 
suggested presently, that the Spaniards bad given them notice of it, 
and with that they shook hands, and swore to one another that they 
would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as they had made 
this bargain they fell to work with the poor men’s habitation; they 
did not set fire indeed to anything, but they pulled down both tlieir 
little houses, and pulled them so limb from limb, that they left not 
the least stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground where they 
stood ; they tore all their little collected household stuff in pieces, 
and threw everything about in such a manner, that tho poor men 
afterwards found some of their tilings a mile off of their habitation. 

When they had done this, they pulled up all the young trees the 
poor men had planted, pulled up an enclosure they had made to 
secure their cattle and their corn ; and, in a word, sacked and plundered 
everything, as completely as a horde of Tartars would have done. 

The two men were at this juncture gone to find them out, and had 
resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though they were but 
two to three. So that had they met, there certainly would have been 
bloodshed among them, for they were all very stout resolute fellows, 
to give them their due. 

But Providence took more care to keep them asi^nder, than they 
themselves could do to meet ; for, as if they had dodged one another, 
when the three were gone thither, the two were hero; and afterwards 
when the two went back to find them, the three were come to the old 
habitation again; we shall see their differing conduct presently . When 
the three came back like furious creatures flushed with the rage 
which the work they had been about had put them into, they came 
up to the Spaniards, and told them what they had done, by way of 
scoff and bravado ; and one of them stepping up to one of tho 
Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys at play, takes hold 
of his hat, as it was upon his head, and giving it a twirl about, sneer- 



291 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBLYSON CRUSOE. 


ing in his face, says he to him. And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard, 
shall have the same sauce, if you do not mend your manners. The 
Spaniard, who, though a quiet civil man, was as brave as a man 
could be desired to be, and withal a strong, well-made man, looked 
steadily at him for a good while, and then, having no weapon in his 
hand, stepped gravely up to him, and with one blow of his fist knocked 
him down, as an ox is felled with a pole-axe ; at w^hich one of the 
rogues, insolent at the first, fired hispistolat the Spaniard immediately. 
He missed his body indeed, for the bullets went through his hair, but 
one of them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much. 
The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than he 
really was, and that put him into some heat, for before he acted all 
in a perfect calm ; but now resolving to go through with his work, 
he stooped to take the fellow’s musket whom he had knocked down, 
and was just'going to shoot the man, and had fired at him, when the 
rest of the Spaniards being in the cave came out, and calling to him 
not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the other two, and took their 
arms from them. 

When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the 
Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own countrymen, they began 
to cool, and giving tlio Spaniards better words, woxild have had their 
arms again; but tlie Spaniards, considei'ing the feud that was between 
them and the other tw^o Englishmen, and that it would be the best 
method tliey could take to kcej) them from one another, told them, 
they would do them no harm, and if they w^ould live peaceably, they 
would be very willing to assist and sociate with them, as they did 
before ; but that they could not think of giving them their arms 
again, w^hile they appeared so resolved to do mischief with them to 
their own countrymen, and had even threatened them all, to make 
them their servants. 

The rogues were now no more capable to bear reason, than to act 
reason, and being refused their arms, they went raving away and 
raging like madmen, threatening wdiat they would do, though they 
had no firearms. But the Spaniards, despising their threatening, 
told them they should take care how they offered any injury to their 
plantation or cattle, for if they did, they would shoot them as they 
wmuld do ravenous beasts, wherever they found them ; and if they 
fell into their hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. How- 
ever, this was far from cooling them, but S.way they went raging and 
swearing. As soon as they were gone, came back the two men, in 
passion and rage enough also, though of another kind ; for having 
been at their plantation, and finding it all demolished and destroyed, 
as above, it will easily be supposed they had provocation enough ; 
they could scarce have room to tell their tale, the Spaniards were so 
eager to tell them theirs ; and it was strange enough to find three 
men thus bully nineteen, and receive no punishment at all. 

The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially having thus 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 295 

<^isarmed them, made light of all their threatenings ; but the two 
Englishmen resolved to have their remedy against them, what pain 
soever it cost to find them out. 

But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them, that as they 
had disarmed them, they could not consent that they (the two) should 
pursue them with fireanns, and perhaps kill them ; but, said the 
grave Spaniard, who w^as their governor, we will endeavour to make 
them do you justice if you will leave it to us, for as there is no doubt 
but they will come to us again ’when their passion is over, being not 
able to subsist without our assistance, v;e promise you to make no 
peace with them, without having a full satisfaction for you ; upon 
this condition we hope you will promise to use no violence with 
them, other than in your own defence. 

The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly, and with 
great reluctance, but the Spaniards protested, they did it only to keep 
them from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last ; For, said they, 
we are not so many of us, here is room enough for us all, and it is 
great pity we should not be all good friends ; at length they did con- 
sent, and waited for the issue of the thing, living for some days with 
the Spaniards, for their own habitation was destroyed. 

In about five days’ time the three vagrants, tired with wandering 
and almost starved with hunger, having chiefly lived on turtles’ eggs, 
all that while, came back to the grove, and finding my Spaniard, who, 
as 1 have said, was the governor, and two more with him walking by 
the side of the creek, they came u]) in a very submissive, humble 
manner, and begged to be received again into the family. The 
Spaniards used them civilly, but told them, they had acted so un- 
naturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the 
tlpaniards) that they could not come to any conclusion, without con- 
sulting the two Englishmen and the rest ; but, however, they would 
go to them and discourse about it, and they should know in half an 
hour. It may be guessed, that they were very hard put to it, for it 
seems, as they were to wait this half-hour for an answer, they begged 
they would send them out some bread in the meantime, which he 
did, and sent them at the same time a large piece of goat’s flesh, and 
a broiled parrot, which they ate very heartily, for they were hungry 
enough. 

After half an hour’s consultation they were called in, and a long 
debate had among them, oheir two countrymen charging them with 
the ruin of all their labour, and a design to murder them ; all which 
they owned before, and therefore could not deny now; upon the 
whole, the Spaniard acted the moderator between thorn, and as they 
had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three while they were 
naked and unarmed, so they now obliged the three to go and build 
their fellows two huts, one of the same, and the other of larger 
dimensions, than they were before ; to fence their ground again, 
where they had pulled up the fences, plant trees in the room of those 



296 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


pulled up, dig up the land again for planting corn, where they had 
spoiled it ; and, in a word, to restore everything in the same state as 
they found it, as near as they could, for entirely it could not be, the 
season for the corn, and the growth of the trees and hedges, not 
being possible to be recovered. 

'Well, they submitted to all this, and as they had plenty of pro- 
visions given them all the while, they grew very orderly, and the 
whole society began to live pleasantly and agreeably together, only 
that these three fellows could never be persuaded to work, I mean 
for themselves, except now and then a little, just as they pleased ; 
however, the Spaniards told them plainly, that if they would but live 
f'Ociably and friendly together, and study in the whole tlie good of 
the plantation, they would be content to work for them, and let them 
w^alk about and be as idle as tliey xdeased ; and thus having lived 
I)retty wc^ll together for a month or two, the Spaniards gave them 
arms again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with them as 
before. 

It Avas not above a Aveek after they had these arms, and Avent 
abroad, but tlio ungrateful creatures began to be asinsolent and trouble- 
some as before : but, however, an accident happening presently upon 
tliis, which endangered the safety of them all, they were obliged to 
lay by all private resentments, and look to the preservation of their 
lives. 

Jt happened one night, that the Spaniard governor, as I call him, 
that is to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, who was now 
the caxitain, or leader, or governor of the rest, found himself very 
uneasy in the night, and could by no means get any sleep ; he was 
perfectly Avell in body, as he told me the story, only found his 
thoughts tumultuous, his mind run upon men fighting and killing of 
one another, but was broad awake, and could not by any means get 
any sleep ; in short, he lay a great while, but growing more and 
more uneasy, he resolved to rise. As they lay, being so many of them, 
upon goat-skins, laid thick upon such couches and jiads, as they 
made for themselves, not in hammocks and ship beds as I did, who 
was but one, so they had little to do, when they were willing to rise, 
but to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put on a coat, such as it 
was, and their pumps, and they were ready for going any way that 
their thoughts guided them. 

Being thus gotten up, he looked out, but being dark, he could see 
little or nothing, and, besides, the trees which I had planted, as in 
rny former account is described, and which were now grown tall, in- 
tercepted his sight, so that he could only look up, and see that it was 
a clear starlight night, and hearing no noise, he returned and laid 
him down again ; but it was all one, he could not sleep, nor could he 
compose himself to anything like rest, but his thoughts were to the 
last degree uneasy, and yet he kneAV not for what. 

Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going out 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 297 


and coming in, another of them waked, and, calling, asked who it was 
that was np ? The governor told him how it had been with him. 
Say you so, says the other Spaniard ; such things are not to be 
slighted, I assure you ; there is certainly some mischief working, says 
he, near us, and presently he asked him. Where are the Englishmen ? 
They are all in their huts, says he, safe enough. It seems, the 
Spaniards had kept possession of the main apartment, and had made 
a place where the three Englishmen, since their last mutiny, always 
quartered by themselves, and could not come at the rest. Well, says 
the Spaniard, there is something in it, I am persuaded from my own 
experience ; I am satislied our spirits embodied have a converse 
with, and receive intelligence from, the spirits unembodied and in- 
habiting the invisible world, and this friendly notice is given for our 
advantage, if we know how to make use of it. Come, says he, let 
us go out and look abroad, and if we find nothing at all in it to justify 
the trouble, I’ll tell you a story to the purpose, that shall convince 
you of the justice of my proposing it. 

In a wmrd, they w^ent out to go to the top of the hill, where 1 
used to go, but they being strong and in good company, not alone, 
as I was, used none of my cautions, to go up by the ladder, and 
then pulling it up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, 
but were going round tli rough the grove unconcerned and unwary, 
when they were surprised with seeing a light, as of fire, a very little 
way off from them, and hearing the voices of men, not of one, or two, 
but of a great number. 

In all tlie discoveries I had made of the savages landing on the 
island, it was my constant care to prevent them making the least 
discovery of there being any inhabitant upon the place ; and when 
by any occasion they came to know it, they felt it so effectually, that 
they that got away Avere scarce able to give any account of it, for we 
disappeared as soon as possible, nor did ever any that had seen me 
escape to tell any one else, except it were the three savages in our 
last encounter, who jumped into the boat, of whom I mentioned, that 
I was afraid they should go home and bring more help. 

Whether it was the consequence of the escape of those men, that 
so great a number came now together, or whether they came 
ignorantly and by accident on their usual bloody errand, they could 
not, it seems, understand ; but whatever it was, it had been their 
business, either to have concealed themselves, as not to have seen 
them at all, much less to have let the savages have seen that there 
were any inhabitants in the place, or to have fallen upon them so 
effectually, as that not a man of them should have escaped, which 
could only have been by getting in between them and their boats ; 
but this presence of mind was wanting to them, which was the ruin 
of their tranquillity for a great while. 

We need not doubt, but that the governor and the man with him, 
surprised with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised their 



298 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


fellows, giving them an account of the imminent danger they were 
all in ; and they again as readily took the alarm, but it was im- 
possible to persuade them to stay close within where they were, but 
that they must run all out to see how things stood. 

While it was dark indeed, they were well enough, and they had 
opportunity enough for some hours to view them by the light of 
three fires they had made at a distance from one another ; what they 
were doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they knew not. 
Por, first, the enemy wore too many ; and secondly, they did not 
keep together, but were divided into several parties, and were on 
shore in several places. 

The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight, and 
as they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore, they 
made no doubt, but first or last, some of them would chop in upon 
tlieir habitation, or upon some other place, where they would see the 
token of inhabitants, and they were in great perplexity also for fear 
of their flock of goats, which would have been little less than starving 
them, if they should have been destroyed ; so the fii’st thing they 
resolved in)on, was to despatch three men away before it was light, 
viz., two Si)aniards and one Englishman, to drive all tlie goats away 
to the great valley whei-e the cave W’as, and, if need were, to drive 
them into the very cave itself. 

Could they have seen the savages altogether in one body, and at 
any distance from their canoes, they resolved, if they had been 
an hundred of them, to have attacked them; but that could 
not be obtained, for they were some of them two miles off from 
the other, and, as it appeared afterwards, were of two different 
nations. 

After having mused a great while on the course they should take, 
and beaten their brains in considering their present circumstances, 
they resolved at last, while it was dark, to send the old savage, 
Priday’s father, out as a spy, to learn, if possible, something con- 
cerning them, what they came for, and what they intended to do ; 
the old man readily undertook it, and stripping himself quite naked, 
as most of the savages were, away he went. After he had been gone 
ail hour or two, he brings word, that he had been among them un- 
discovered, tliat he found they were two parties, and of two several 
nations who had war with one another, and had had a great battle 
in their own country, and that both sides having had several prisoners 
taken in the fight, they were by mere chance landed all in th^ same 
island, for the devouring their prisoners, and making merry ; but 
their coming so by chance to the same place had spoiled all their 
mirth ; that they were in a great rage at one another, and that they 
were so near, that he believed they would fight again as soon as 
daylight began to appear ; but he did not perceive that they had any 
notion of anybody's being on the island but themselves. He had 
hardly made an end of telling his story, when they could perceive, 




TEE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 299 

by the unusual noise they made, that the two little armies were 
engaged in a bloody fight. 

Friday’s father used all the arguments he could to persuade our 
people to lie close, and not be seen ; he told them their safety con- 
sisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but lie still, and the 
savages would kill one another to their hands, and then the rest 
would go away ; and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible to 
prevail, especially upon the Englishmen, their curiosity was so im- 
portunate upon their prudentials, that they must run out and see the 
battle. However, they used some caution too, viz., they did not go 
openly, just by their own dwelling, but went farther into the woods, 
and placed themselves to advantage, where they might securely see 
them manage the fight, and, as they thought, not to be seen by 
them ; but it seems the savages did see them, as wo shall find 
hereafter 



lllKilJ. Ul' IHK KOl'lEIi A.11MY H,l I> KOK Ml 1 - P, 3{}(>. 


The battle was very fierce, and if I might believe the Englishmen, 
one of them said, he could perceive, that some of them were men of 
great bravery, of invincible spirits, and of great policy in guiding the 
fight. The battle, they said, held two hours, before they could guess 
which party would be beaten ; but then that party which was nearest 
our people’s habitation began to appear weakest, and after some time 
more, some of them began to fly ; and this put our men again into a 
great consternation, lest any of those that fled should run into the 
grove, before their dwelling, for shelter, and thereby involuntarily 
discover the place; and that by consequence the pursuers should do 
the like in search for them. Upon this they resolved that they 
would stand armed within the walls, and whoever came into the 
grove, they should sally out over the wall and kill them ; so that, if 
possible, not one should return to give an account of it ; they ordered 
also, that it should be done with their swords, or by knoclang them 




300 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



IHifi bPAMAJtUS VIEWIM; lilE ElELD OJT IIATXLJC.— P. ao.i. 

knowing whither they went, but running as into a thick wood for 
shelter ; the scout they kept to look abroad, gave notice of this within 
with this addition, to our men’s great satisfaction, viz., that the 
conquerors had not pursued them, or seen which way they were 





THE LIFE AHD ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 303 


gone ; upon this, the Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would 
not suffer them to kill the three fugitives, but sending three men out 
by tihe top of the hill, ordered them to go round and come in behind 
them, surprise and take them prisoners, which was done ; the residue 
of the conquered people fled to their canoes and got off to sea ; the 
victors retired, and made no pursuit, or very little, but drawing them' 
selves into a body together, gave two great screaming shouts, which 
they supposed was by way of triumph, and so the fight ended. And 
the same day, about three o’clock in the afternoon, they also marched 
to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their island again free 
to themselves, their fright was over, and they saw no savages in 
several years after. 

After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den, and 
viewing the field of battle, they found about two-and-thirty dead men 
upon the spot ; some wore killed with great long arrows, some of 
which were found sticking in their bodies ; but most of them were 
killed with their great wooden swords, sixteen or seventeen of which 
they found in the field of battle, and as many bows, with a great 
many arrows. These swords were strange great unwieldy things, 
and they must be very strong men that used them. Most of those 
men that were killed with them had their heads smashed to pieces, 
as we may say, or as we call it in English, their brains knocked out, 
and several their arms and legs broken : so that it is evident they 
fight with inexpi’essiblo rage and fury. We found not one wounded 
man that was not stone dead ; for either they stay by their enemy 
till they have quite killed him, or they carry all the wounded men, 
that are not quite dead, away with them. 

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while ; the 
sight had filled them with horror, and the consequences appeared 
terrible to the last degree, even to them, if ever they should fall into 
the hands of those creatures, who would not only kill them as enemies, 
but kill them for food, as we kill our cattle, And they professed to 
me, that the thoughts of being eaten up like beef or mutton, though 
it was supposed it was not to be till they w^ere dead, had something 
in it so horrible, that it nauseated their very stomachs, made them 
sick when they thought, of it, and filled their minds with such unusual 
terror, that they were not themselves for some weeks after. 

This, as I said, tamed even the three English brutes 1 have been 
speaking of ; and for a great while after they were very tractable, and 
went about the common business of their whole society well enough ; 
planted, sowed, reaped, and began to be all naturalized to the country. 
But sometime after this, they fell all into such measures which brought 
them into a great deal of trouble. 

They had taken three prisoners, as I had observed, and those three 
being lusty stout young fellows, they made them servants, and taught 
them to work for them, and, as slaves, they did well enough ; but 
they did not take their measures with them as I did by my man 



304 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


Friday, viz., to begin with them upon the principle of having saved 
their lives, and then instruct t];iem in the rational principles of life, 
much less of religion, civilizing and reducing them by kind usage and 
affectionate arguings ; but as they gave them their food every day, 
so they gave them their work too, and kept them fully employed in 
drudgery enough ; but they failed in this by it, that they never had 
them to assist them and fight for them, as I had my man Friday, who 
was as true to me as the very flesh upon my bones. 

But to come to the family part, being all now good friends ; for 
common danger, as I said above, had effectually reconciled them, 
they began to consider their general circumstances; and the first 
thing that came under their consideration was, whether, seeing the 
savages particularly haunted that side of the island, and that there 
were more remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to their 
way of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they should not 
rather remove their habitation, and plant in some more proper place 
for their safety, and especially for the security of their cattle and 
corn? 

Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they would not 
remove their habitation ; because that sometime or other they thought 
they might hear from their governor again, meaning me ; and if I 
should send any one to seek them, I should bo sure to direct thorn to 
that side, where, if they should find the place demolished, they would 
conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were gone and so our 
supply would go too. 

But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to remove them into 
the valley where my cave was, where tlie land was as proper for 
both, and where, indeed, there was land enough. However, upon 
second tliouglit, they altered one part of that resolution too, and 
i‘esolved only to remove part of their cattle thither, and plant part of 
their corn there, and so if one part wras destroyed, the other might 
be saved. And one part of prudence they used, which it was very 
well they did, viz., that they never trusted those three savages, which 
they had prisoners, with knowing anything of the plantation they had 
made in that valley, or of any cattle they had there ; much less of 
the cave there, which they kept, in case of necessity, as a safe 
retreat, and whither they carried also the two barrels of powder 
which I had sent them at my coming away. 

But, however, they resolved not to diaiigo their habitation, yet 
they agrf3ea that as I had carefully covered it first with a wall or 
fortification, and then with a grove of trees ; so, seeing their safety 
consisted entirely in their being concealed, of which they were now 
fully convinced, they set to work to cover and conceal the place yet 
more effectiially than before. To this purpose, as I had planted 
trees (or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all grew up to be 
trees) for some good distance before the entrance into my apart- 
ment, they went on in the same manner, and filled up the rest of 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 305 


that- whole space of ground, from the trees I had set, quite down to 
the side of the creek, where, as I said, I landed my floats, and even 
into the very ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any 
])laco to land, or any sign that there had been any landing there- 
about. These stakes also, being of a wood very forward to grow, as 
I have noted formerly, they took care to have generally very much 
larger and taller than those which I had planted ; and as they grew 
apace, so they planted them so very thick and close together, that 
wlieu they had been three or four years grown, there was no piercing 
with the eye any considerable way into the plantation. And as for 
tliat part which I had planted, the trees wore grown as tliick as a 
man’s thigh ; and among them they placed so many other short 
ones, and so thick that, in a word, it stood like a pallisado, a 
quarter of a mile thick, and it was next to impossible to penetrate it, 
but witli a little army to cut it all down ; for a little dog could 
hardly get between the trees, they stood so close. 

But this was not all ; for they did the same by all the gi’ound to the 
right hand, and to the left, and round even to the top of the hill; 
leaving no way, not so much as for tliemsclves to come out, but by 
tlie ladder placed up to the side of the hill, and then lifted up, and 
j)iaced again from the first stage up to the top ; which ladder, 
when it was taken down, nothing but wliat had wings or witchcraft 
to assist it, could come at them. 

Tills was excellently well contrived. Nor was it less than wdiat they 
afterwards found occasion for ; which served to convince me, that as 
liuman prudence has the authority of Providence to justify it, so it 
lias, doubtless, the direction of Providence to set it to work, and 
would we listen cai'ofully to tlie voice of it, I am fully persuaded wo 
might prevent many of the disasters which our lives are now, by our 
negligence, subjected to. But this by the way. 

I return to the story. They lived two years after this in perfect 
retirement, and had no more visits from the savages. They had, indeed, 
alarm given them one morning, wliich put them into a great eon- 
stern ation ; for some of the Spaniards being out early one morning 
on the west side, or rather the end of the island, which, by the way, 
vas that end where I never went, for fear of being discovered, they 
were surprised with seeing above twenty canoes of Indians, just 
coming on shore. 

They made the best of their way home, in hurry enough ; and, 
giving the alarm to their comrades, they kept close all that day and 
the next, going out only at niglit, to make observation. But they 
had the good luck to be mistaken; for, wherever the savages went, 
they did not land at that time on the island, but pursued some other 
design. 

And now they had another broil with the tliree Englishmen ; one 
of which, a most turbulent felh-w, being in a rage at one of the three 
slaves, which I mentioned they had taken, because tlie fellow had 

20 



3 o 6 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


not done something right which he bid him do, and seemed a little 
intractable in his showing him, drew a hatchet out of a frog belt in 
which he wore it by his side, and fell upon the poor savage, not to 
correct him, but to kill him. One of the Spaniards, who was by, 
seeing him give the fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet, which 
he aimed at his head, but struck into his shoulder, so that he thought 
he had cut the poor creature’s arm off, ran to him, and entreating 



THE SPANIARD AND THE SLAVE, 


him not to murder the poor man, clapt in between him and the 
savage, to prevent the mischief. 

The fellow being enraged the more at this, struck at the Spaniard 
with his hatchet, and swore he would serve him as he intended to 
serve the savage ; which the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow ; 
and with a shovel which he had in his hand (for they were all work- 
ing in the field their corn-land) knocked the brute down. 





THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 307 


Another of the Englishmen running at the same time to help liis 
comrade, knocked the Spaniard down; and then two Spaniards more 
came in to help their man, and a third Englishman fell in upon them. 
They had none of them any firearms, or any other weapons but 
hatchets and other tools, except this third Englishman; he had one 
of my old rusty cutlasses, with which he made at the two last 
Spaniards, and wounded them both. This fray set the wdiole family 
in an uproar, and more help coming in, they took the three English- 
men prisoners. The next question was, What should be done with 
them ? They had been so often mutinous, and were so furious, so 
desperate, and so idle withal, that they knew not what course to take 
with them ; for they were mischievous to the highest degree, and 
valued not what hurt they did to any man ; so that, in short, it was 
not safe to live with them. 

The Spaniard, who was governor, told them in so many words, 
that if they had been of his own country, he would have hanged 
them ; for all laws and all governors were to preserve society ; and 
those who were dangerous to the society, ought to be expelled out of 
it ; but as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous 
kindness of an Englishman that they all owed their preservation and 
deliverance, he would use them with all possible lenity, and would 
leave them to the judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were 
their countrymen. 

One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said, they desired 
ifc might not be left to them; for, says he, I am sure we ought to 
f-entence them to the gallows; and with that gives an account liow 
Will Atkins, one of the three, had proposed to have all the five 
Englishmen join together, and murder all the Spaniards when they 
were in their sleep. 

When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to William Atkins, 
How, Seignior Atkins, says he, Would you murder us all? What 
have you to say to that ? That hardened villain was so far from 
denying it, that he said it was true, and they would do it still before 
they had done with them. Well, but Seignior Atkins, says the 
Spaniard, what have we done to you, that you would kill us ? And 
what would you get by killing us ? And what must we do to prevent 
your killing us ? Must we kill you, or you will kill us ? Why will 
you put us to the necessity of this, Seignior Atkins? says the Spaniard 
very calmly and smiling. 

Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard’s making a jest 
of it, that had he not been held by three men, and withal had no 
weapons with him, it was thought he would have attempted to have 
killed the Spaniard in the middle of all the company. 

This hare-brained carriage obliged them to consider seriously what 
was to be done. The two Englishmen and the Spaniard who saved 
the poor savage, was of the opinion they should hang one of the three 
for an example to the rest, and that, particularly, it should be he that 

20—2 



3o8 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


liad twice attempted to commit murder with his hatchet ; and indeed 
there was some reason to believe he had done it, for the poor savage 
was in such a miserable condition with the wound he had received 
that it was thought he could not live. 

But the governor Siianiard still said no, it was an Englishman 
that had saved all tlieir lives, and he would never couseiiu to put aii 
Englishman to death, though ho had murdered half of them ; nay, 
he said, if he had been killed himself by an Englishman, and had 
time left to speak, it should bo tliat they should pardon him 

This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that 
there was no gainsaying it ; and as nioreifiil counsels are most apt to 
jirevail where they are so earnestly pressed, so th(;v all came into it; 
but then it was to be considered what should be done to keep them 
from doing the mischief they designed ; foi- all agieod, governor and 
all, that means were to bo used for preserving the socie.ty from danger. 
Alter a long debate it was agreed, first, that they should bo disarmed, 
and not x^-i’mitted to have either gun, or powder, or shot, or sword, 
or any weapon, and should be turned out of the socieiy, and left to 
live where they would, and how they would, by themselves ; but tliat 
none of the vest, either Spaiiiaivls or Ejjgiisli, should converse with 
them, spe Uv with tlunn, or have anything to do wdth them; that 
they should be forbid to come within a ceitain distance of the plitco 
whore tlie rest dwelt ; and tliat if tliey oiTered to commit any dis- 
order, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any of the corn, plantings, 
buildings, fences, or caille belonging to the society, tliey should die 
without mercy, and they would shoot them wherever they could find 
them. ^ 

The governor, a man of great humanity, musing upon the sentence, 
considered a little upon it, and, turning to the two honest English- 
men, said, Hold, you must rellect that it will be long ere they can 
raise corn and cattle of tlieir owm, and they must not starve. We 
must therefore allow them provisions. Bo ho caused to be added, that 
they should liave a proportion of corn given them to last them eight 
months, and for seed to sow, by winch time they might be supposed 
to raise some of their own ; that they should have six milch-goats, 
four he-goats, and six kids given them, as well for present subsistence 
as for a store ; and that they should have tools given them for tlieir 
work in the fields, such as six hatchets, au axe, a saw, and the like. 
But they should have none of tliese tools or provisions, unless they 
would swear solemnly that they would not hurt or injure any of the 
Spaniards with them, or of their fellow Englishmen. 

Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to 
shift for themselves. They wreiit away sullen and refractory, as 
neither contented to go away or to stay; but, as there was no remedy, 
they went, pretending to go and choose a place where they would 
settle themselves to plant and live by themselves, and some pro- 
visions were given them, but no weapons. 



7 HE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 309 

About four or five days after they came again for victuals, and 
gave the governor an account where they had pitched their tents, 
and marked themselves out a habitation and plantation ; and it was 
a very convenient place indeed, on the remotest part of the island, 
N.E., much about the place where I landed in my first voyage, when 
I was driven out to sea, the Lord knows whither, in my attempt to 
surround the island. 

Here they built themselves two handsome huts and contrived 
them, in a manner, like my first habitation, being close under the 
side oi a hill, having some trees growing already on three sides of it, 
so that by planting otliei’s it would be very easily covered from the 
sight, unless narrowdy searched for ; they desired some dried goat- 
skins for beds and covering, which were given them ; and upon 
giving their words that they wmuld not disturb the rest, or injure any 
of their plantations, they gave them hatchets and what other tools 
they could spare ; some j)cas, barley, and rice, for sowing, and, in a 
word, anything they wanted but arms and ammunition. 

They lived in this separate condition about six months, and had 
gotten in their first harvest, though the quajjtity was but small, the 
parcel of land they had planted being but little ; for, indeed, having 
all their plantation to form, they liad a great deal of W’ork upon their 
hands; and when they came to make boards, and pots, and such 
things, they \vcre (]uite out of their element, and c(uild make nothing 
of it ; and when the rainy season came on, for want of a cave in the 
eartJ], they could not keep their grain dry, and it was in great danger 
of spoiling. And this humhled them much ; so they came and 
1 egged the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily did, and 
in four days worked a great hole in the side of the hill for them, big 
enough to secure tlieir corn, and other things from the rai]i ; but it 
w'as but a poor place, at best, compared to mine ; and especially as 
mine w as tlnui, for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made 
several new apartments in it. 

About three-quarters of a yenr after this separation, a new frolic 
took these rogues, which, together wuth the former villainy they had 
committed, brought mischief enough upon them, and had very near 
been the ruin of the wdiole colony. The three new sociates began, 
it seems, to be w^eary of the laborious life they led, and that witliout 
liope of bettering their circumstances; and a whim took them, that 
they would make a voyage to the continont from w^heuce the savages 
came, and would try if they could not seize upon some prisoners 
among the natives there, and bring them home, so as to make them 
do the laborious part of their work for them. 

The project w’^as not so preposterous, if they had gone no farther ; 
but they did nothing, and proposed nothing, but had either mischief 
in the design, or mischief in the event. And if I may give my opinion, 
they seemed to be under a blast from Heaven ; for if we will not 
allow a visible curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile 



510 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


the events of things with the Divine justice ? It v^^as certainly an 
apparent vengeance on their crime of mutiny and piracy, that 
brought them to the state they were in ; and as they showed not the 
least remorse for the crime, but added new villainies to it, such as, 
X)articularly, the piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor slave, 
because he did not, or perhaps could not, understand to do what he 
was directed; and to wound him in such a manner, as, no question, 
made him a cripple all his life ; and in a place where no surgeon or 
medicine could be had for his cure ; and what was still worse, the 
murderous intent, or, to do justice to the crime, the intentional 
murder, for such to be sure it was, as was afterwards the formed 
design they all laid, to murder the Spaniards in cold blood, and in 
their sleep. 

But 1 leave observing, and return to the story. The three fellows 
came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very humble 
terms desired to be admitted to speak with them. The Spaniards 
very readily heard what tliey had to say, which was tliis, tfiat tliey 
w^ere tired of living in the manner tliey did ; that they were not 
handy enough to make tho necessaries they wanted ; and that having 
no lielp, they found they should be starved. But if the Spaniards 
would give tliem leave to take one of the canoes wdiich they came 
over in, and give tlioni arms and ammunition, proportioned for their 
defence, they would go over to the main, and seek their fortune, and 
so deliver them from the trouble of sujijilying them with any other 
provisions. 

The Spaniards w’cre glad enough to bo rid of them, but yet very 
honestly repi’csented to them tho certain destruction they were run- 
ning into; told them they had suffered such hardships upon that 
very spot, tliat they could, without any spirit of ])rophecy, tell them 
that tliey would be starved, or be murdered, and bade them consider 
of it. 

The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they stayed 
here, for they could not w'ork, and would not work ; and they could 
but be starved abroad, and if they wore murdered, there was an end 
of them , they liad no wd ves or children to cry after them ; and in 
sliort, insisted importunately upon their demand, declaring that they 
would go, whether they w^ould give them any arras or no. 

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they were 
resolved to go, they should not go like naked men, and be in no 
condition to defend themselves ; and that though they could ill spare 
their firearms, having not enough for themselves, yet they would let 
them have two muskets, a , pistol, and a cutlass, and each man a 
hatchet, which they thought was sufficient for them. 

in a word, they accepted the offer, and having baked them bread 
enough to serve them a month, and given them as much goats’ flesh 
as they could eat while it was sweet, and a great basket full of dried 
grapes, a pot full of fresh water, and a young kid alive to kill, they 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, sn 


“boldly set out in a canoe for a voyage over the sea, where it was at 
least 40 miles broad. 

The boat was indeed a large one, and would have very well carried 
fifteen or twenty men ; and, therefore, was rather too big for them to 
manage. But as they had a fair breeze, and the flood- tide with 
them, they did well enough. They had made a mast of a long pole, 
and a sail of four large- goat-skins dried, which they had sewed or 
laced together ; and away they went merrily enough ; the Spaniards 
called after them, Bon voyajo ; and no man ever thought of seeing 
them any more. 

The Spaniards would often say to one another, and to the two 
honest Englishmen who remained behind, how quietly and com- 
fortably they lived now those three turbulent fellows were gone ; as 
for their ever coming again, that was the remotest thing from their 
thoiiglits that could be imagined ; when behold, after two-and-twenty 
days’ absence, one of the Englishmen being abroad upon his planting- 
work, sees tliree strange men coining towards him at a distance, with 
guns upon their shoulders. 

iVway runs tlie Englishman, as if he was l)ewitcliod, comes frighted 
and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and tells him they were all 
undone, for there ^^cve strangers landetl upon tlie island, he could 
not tell who. The Spaniard, pausing awhile, says to him. How do 
you mean, you cannot tell who? They are the savages, to be sure. 
No, no, says the Englishman ; they are men in clotlies, with arms. 
Nay, then, says the Spaniard, why are you concei'iied ? If they’ are 
not savages they must be friends, for there is no (lliristiau nation 
upon earth but will not do us good rather than liEirm. 

While they were debating thus, come the three Englishmen, and 
standing without the wood, which was new planted, holloaed to 
them; they pi‘(isenily knew their voices, and so all the wonder of 
that kind ceased. Ihit now the admiration was turned upon another 
question, viz., wdiat could be the matter, and what made them come 
back again ? 

It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring 
where they had been, and what they liad been doing, they gave them 
a full account of their voyage in a few words, viz., that they reached 
the land in two days, or something less, ])ut finding the people 
alarmed at their coming, and preparing with bows and arrows to 
fight them, they durst not go on shore, but sailed on to the north- 
ward six or seven hours, till they came to a great opening, by which 
they perceived that the land they saw from our island was not the 
mam, but an island ; that entering that opening of the sea, they saw 
another island on the right-hand north, and several more west ; and 
b 3 mg resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one of the islands 
which lay west, and wont boldly on shore ; tliat they found the 
people very courteous and friendly to them, and that they gave them 
several roots and some dried fish, and appeared very sociable ; and 



312 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


the women, as well as the men, were very forward to supply them 
with anything they could get for them to eat, and brought it to them 
a great way upon their heads. 

They continued here four days, and inquired as well as they could 
of them by signs, what nations were this way and that way ; and 
were told of several fierce aiid terrible peojjle that lived almost every 
way, who, as they made signs to them, used to eat men. But as for 
themselves, they said that they never eat men or women, except 
only such as they took in the wars, and then they owned that they 
made a great feast, and eat their prisoners. 

The Englishme]! inquired when they had a feast of that kind, 
and they told them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon, and 
then to two lingers ; and that their gi-eat king had two hundred 
prisoners now, wliich he had taken in his war ; and they were feed- 
ing them to make them fat for the next feast. The Englishmen 
seemed mighty desirous to see those prisoners, but the other mis- 
taking them, thought they were desirous to have some of them to 
carry away for their own eating. So they beickoned to them, pointing 
to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising, which was to signify, 
that tlie next morning at suurising they would bring some for them ; 
and accordingly the next morning they brought down five women 
and eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to carry witli 
them on their voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and 
oxen down to a seaport town, to victual a ship. 

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their 
Btojnachs turned at this sight, and they did not know what to do ; 
to refuse the prisoners, wmild liave been the highest affront to the 
savage gentry that offered them ; and what to do with them they 
knew not ; however, upon some debates, they resolved to accept of 
them, and in return they gave the savages that brought them one 
of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six or seven of their 
bullets, which, though they did not understand, they seemed ex- 
tremely pleased with. And then tying the poor creatures’ hands 
behind them, tlicy (the people) dragged the poor prisoners into the 
boat for our men. 

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they had 
them, or else they that gave them this noble present would certainly 
have expected that they should have gone to work with them, have 
killed tw^o or thre^. of them the next morning, and perhaps have 
invited the donors to dinner. 

But having taken their leave with all the respects and thanks 
that could well pass between people, where on either side they 
understood not one word they could say, they put off with their boat, 
and came back towards the first island, where, when they arrived, 
they set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being too many of 
them for their occasion. 

In their voyage, they endeavoured to have some communication 






THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 315 

with their prisoners, but it was impossible to make them iiiKleistaiid 
anything; nothing they could say to them, or give them, or do lor 
them, but was looked upon as going about to murder them. They 
first of all unbound them, but the poor creatures screamed at that, 
especially the women, as if they had just felt the knife at their 
throats ; for they immediately concluded they were unbound on 
purpose to be killed. 

If they gave them anything to eat, it the same thing; then 
they concluded it was for fear they should sink in flesh, and so m^t 
be fat enougli to kill. If they looked at one of them more parlicularl y, 
the party presently concluded, it was to see whether ho or she was 
fattest and fittest to kill. Nay, after they had brought them (juite 
over, and began to use them kindly, and treat them well, they still 
expected every day to make a dinner or a sapper for their new 
masters. 

When the three w^anderers had given this unaccountable history 
or journal of their voyage, the Spaniards asked them, Where their 
new family w^as ? and being told that they had broiiglit them on shore, 
and put them into one of their huts, and were come u]) to beg some 
victuals for them, they (the Spaniards) and the other two English- 
men, that is to say, the whole colony, resolved to go all dowm to the 
place and see them, and did so, and Eriday’s father wdth them. 

When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound ; for when 
they had brought them on shore, they bound their hands that they 
might not take the boat and make their escape. Eiist, there w^ere 
three men, lusty comely fellows, W'ell shaped, Blraig])t and fail* limbs, 
ab(nit thirty to thirty -live years of age ; and five women, whereof 
two might be from thirty to forty, two more not above four or fivc- 
aiid tW'cnty, and the fifth, a tall comely maiden about sixteen or 
seventeen. The women were well favoured agreeable persons both 
in shape and features, only tawny, and two of them, had they been 
perfect white, would have passed for very handsome women even in 
London itself, having pleasant agreeable countenances and of a very 
modest behaviour. 

The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to our 
Spaniards, to see two naked men and five women, all together bound, 
and in the most miserable circumstances that human nature could 
be supposed to be, viz., to be expecting every moment to bo dragged 
out, and have their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up like 
a calf that is killed lor a dainty. 

The first thing they did, was to cause the old Indian, Friday’s 
father, to go in and see first if he knew any of them, and then if ho 
understood any of their speech. As soon as the old man came in, 
he looked seriously at them, but knew none of them ; neither could 
any of them understand a word he said, or a sign he could make, 
except one of the women. 

However, this was enough to answer the end, which was to satisfy 



316 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

them, that the men into whose hands they were fallen were Christians ; 
that they abhorred eating of men or women, and that they might be 
sure they would not be killed. As soon as they were assured of this, 
they discovered such a joy, and by such awkward, and several ways, 
as is hard to describe ; for it seems they were of several nations. 

The woman, who was their interpreter, was bid in the next place 
to ask them if they were willing to be servants, and to work for the 
men who had brought them away, to save their lives ; at which they 
all fell a dancing; and presently one fell to taking up this, and 
another that, anything that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to 
iutimato that they were willing to work. 

The governor asked the three men what they intended to do with 
these women, and said, I desire it of you, that you will all engage, 
that if any of you take any of these women as a wife, that he shall 
take but one ; for though we cannot marry any of you, yet it is but 
reasonable that wliilc you stay here, the woman any of you takes 
should be maintained by the man that takes her, and should bo his 
wife. All this appeared so just, that every one agreed to it without 
any difficulty. 

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed to take 
any of them ? But every one of them answered, No. Some of them 
said they had wh'es in Spain, and the others did not like women that 
were not Oh dstians. On the other hand, to be short, the live ihiglish- 
inen took them every one a wife ; and so they sot up a new form of 
living ; for the Spaniards and Friday’s father lived in my old habita- 
tion, which they iiad enlarged exceedingly within. The iliree servants 
which were taken in the late battle of the savages lived with them ; 
and these carried on the main part of the colony, supplying all the 
rest wuth food, and assisting them in anything as they could, or as 
they found necessity required. 

But the wonder of this story was, how five such refractory ill- 
matched fellows should agree about tlicse women, and that two of 
them should not pitch upon the same woman, especially seeing two 
or three of them were, without comparison, more agreeable than the 
others. But they took a good way enough to prevent quarrelling 
among themselves ; for they set the five women by themselves in one 
of their huts, and they went all into the other hut, and drew lots 
among them, who should choose first. 

He that drew to choose first, went away by himself to the hut 
where the poor creatures were, and fetched out her he chose ; and it 
was worth observing, that he that chose first took her that was 
reckoned the homeliest, and the oldest of the five, which made mirth 
enough among the rest ; and even the Spaniards laughed at it. But 
the fellow considered better than any of them, that it was application 
and business that they were to expect assistance in, as much as 
anything else ; and she proved the best wife of all the parcel. 

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 317 


fetched out one by one, the terrors of their condition returned upon 
them again, and they firmly believed that they were now agoing to be 
devoured ; accordingly, when the English sailor came in and fetched 
out one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry, and hung 
about her, and took their leave of her with such agonies and such 
affection, as would have grieved the hardest heart in the world; nor 
was it possible for the Englishmen to satisfy them that they were not 
to be immediately murdered, till they fetched the old man, Friday's 
father, who immediatedy let them know that the five men, who had 
fetched them out one by one, had chosen them for their wives. 

When they had done, and the fright the women were in was a 
little over, the men went to work, and the Spaniards came and 
helped them : and in a few hours they had built them every one a 
new hut, or tent for their lodging apart ; for those they lifid already 
were crowded with their tools, household-stuff, and provision. The 
three wicked ones had pitched farthest olf, and the two honest ones 
nearer, but both on the north shore of the island, so that they con- 
tinued separate as before. And thus my island was peopled in three 
places ; and, as I might say, three towns were begun to be planted. 

And here it is very well worth observing, that as it often haj)pcns 
ill the world (what tlie wise ends of God’s providence are in such a 
disposition of things, I cannot say) the two honest follows had the 
two worst wives, and the three reprobates, that were scarce wx)rth 
hanging, that wore fit for nothing, and neither seemed horn to do 
themselves good, or any one else, liad three clever, diligent, cai'ofnl 
and ingenious wives ; not that the tw^o first were ill wives, as to their 
temper or humour, for all the five were most willing, quiet, passive, 
and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives ; but my 
meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or 
alike cleanly and neat. 

Another observation I must make, to the honour of a diligent 
application on one hand, and to the disgrace of a slotliful, negligent, 
idle temper on the other, that wdien 1 came to the place, atid vie\v(*,d 
the several improvements, plantings, and majiagement of tlie several 
little colonies, the two men had so far outgone the three that there 
was no comparison. They had, indeed, both of them as mucli ground 
laid out for corn as they wanted ; and the reason was because, ac- 
cording to my rule, nature dictated that it was to no purpose to 
sow more corn than they wanted, but the difference of the cultiva- 
tion, of the planting, of the fences, and, indeed, of everything else, 
was easy to be seen at first view. 

The two men had innumerable young trees planted al^out their 
huts, that when you came to the place, nothing was to be seen but a 
wood, and though they had twice had their plantation demolished, 
once by their own countrymen and once by the enemy, as shall be 
shown in its place, yet they had restored all again, and everything 
was thriving and nourishing about them ; they had grajjes planted in 



3iS THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


order, and managed like a vineyard, though they had themselves 
never seen anything of that kind ; and by their good ordering their 
vines, their grapes were as good again as any of the others. They 
liad also found themselves out a retreat in the thickest part of the 
woods, where, though there was not a natural cave, as I had found, 
yet they made one with incessant labour of their hands, and wdiere, 
when the mischief which followed happened, they secured their wives 
and children, so as they could never be found ; they having by stick- 
ing innumerable stakes and poles of the wood, which, as I said, 
grew so easily, made the wood unpassable, except in some places, 
where they climbed up to get over the outside part, and then went on 
by ways of their own leaving. 

As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they were 
much civilized by their new settlement, compared to what they 
w(ire before, and wei*e not so quarrelsome, having not the same op- 
portunity, yet one of the certain companions of a profligate mind 
never lett them, and that was their idleness. It is true they planted 
corn, and made fences ; but Solomon’s words were never better veri- 
fied than in them : I went by the vineyard of the slothful, and it 
was all overgrown with thorns ; for when the Spaniards came to view 
their crop, they could not see it in some places for w’eeds ; the hedge 
had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had gotten in and eaten 
up the corn ; perha])s, hero and there, a dead bush was crammed in 
to stop them out for the presetit, but it was only shutting the stable 
door after the steed was stolen. Whereas, when they looked on the 
colony of the other two, there was the very face of industry and 
success upon all they did ; there was not a weed to be seen in all 
their corn, or a gap in any of their hedges. And they, on the other 
hand, verified Solomon's words in another place, That the diligent 
hand makes rich ; for everything grew and thrived, and they had 
plenty within and without ; they had more tame cattle than the 
other, more utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more 
pleasure and diversion too. 

It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and cleanly 
within doors, and having learned the English ways of dressing and 
cooking from one of the other Englishmen, who, as I said, was cook’s 
mate on board the ship, they dressed their husbands' victuals very 
nicely and well, whereas the other could not be brought to under- 
stand it ; but then the husband, who, as I say, had been cook’s mate, 
did it himself. But as for the husbands of the three wives, they 
loitered about, fetched turtles' eggs, and caught fish and birds ; in a 
word, anything but labour, and they fared accordingly. The diligent 
lived well and comfortably, and the slothful lived hard and beggarly ; 
and so 1 believe, generally speaking, it is all over the world. 

But now I come to a scene, different from all that had happened 
before, either to them or to me ; and the original of the story was 
this : 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 319 


Early one morning there came on shore live or six canoes of Indians, 
or savages, call them which you please ; and there is no room to 
doubt that they came upon the old errand of feeding upon their 
slaves. But that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to 
our men too, that they did not concern themselves about it, as I did ; 
but having been made sensible by their experience that their only 
business was to lie concealed, and that if they were not seen by any 
of the savages, they would go off again quietly when their business 
was done, having as yet not the least notion of there being any 
inhabitants in the island ; I say, having been made sensible of this, 
they had nothing to do but to give notice to all the three plantations 
to keep within doors, and not show themselves, only x>lacing a scout 
in a proper place, to give notice when the boats went to sea again. 

This was without doubt very right ; but a disaster spoilt all these 
measures, and made it known among tlie savages that there were 
inhabitants there, which was in the end the desolation of almost the 
whole colony ; after the canoes with the savages were gone off, the 
Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of them had the curiosity 
to go to the place where they had been, to see what they had been 
doing. Here, to their great surprise, they found three savages left 
behind, and lying fast asleep upon the ground; it was supposed tliey 
had cither been so gorged with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, 
they were asleep, and would not stir when the otJiei’s went, or they 
wrro wandered into the woods, and did not come back in time to be 
taken in. 

Tne S])aniar(ls were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly at 
a loss what to do ; the Spaniard governor, as it happened, was with 
them, and his advice was asked, but he professed he knew not what 
to do; as for slaves, they had enough already, and as to killing them, 
they were none of them inclined to that ; the Spaniard governor told 
me, they could not think of shedding innocent blood, for as to them, 
the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded none of their 
property, and they thought they had no just quarrel against them, to 
take away their lives. 

And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards, observe, that let 
the accounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Peru be what they 
will, I never met with seventeen men of any nation whatsoever, in 
any foreign country, who were so universally modest, temperate, 
virtuous, so very good-humoured, and so courteous as these Spaniards ; 
and as to cruelty, they had nothing of it in their very nature, no in- 
humanity, no barbarity, no outrageous passions, and yet all of them 
men of great courage and spirit. 

Their temper and calmness had appeared in their bearing the un- 
sufferable usage of the three Englishmen; and their justice and 
humanity appeared now in the case of the savages, as above. After 
some consultation, they resolved upon this, that they would lie still 
a while longer, till, if possible, these three men might be gone ; but 



320 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


then the governor Spaniard recollected, that the three savages had 
no boat, and that if they were loft to rove aboat the island, tliey 
would certainly discover that there were inhabitants in it, and so 
they should be undone that way. 

Upon this, they went back again, and there lay the fellows fast 
asleep still, so they resolved to waken them, and take them prisoners, 
and they did so ; the poor fellows were strangely frighted when they 
were seized upon and bound, and afraid, like the women, that they 
should bo murdered and eaten ; for it seems those people think all 
the world does as they do, eating men’s flesh ; but they were soon 
made easy as to that, and away they carried them. 

It was very ha})py to them that they did not carry them home to 
their castle, I mean to my palace under the hill ; but they carried 
them first to the bower, where was the chief of their country- work, 
such as the keeping the goats, the planting the corn, etc., and after- 
wards they carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen. 

Here they were set to work, though it was not nmch they had for 
them to do ; and whether it was by negligence in guarding them, or 
that they thought the fellows could not mend themselves, I know 
not, but one of them run away, and taking into the woods, they could 
never hear of him more. 

TJiey had good reason to believe he got home again soon after, in 
some other boats or canoes of savages, who came on shore three or 
four weeks afterwards, and who, carrying on their revels as usual, 
went off again in two days’ time. This thought terrified them ex- 
ceedingly ; for they concluded, and that not without good cause 
indee{i, that if tliis fellow came safe home among his comrades, ho 
would certainly give them an account that there were people in the 
island, as also how few and weak they were ; for this savage, as I 
observed before, had never been told, and it was very happy lie had 
not, how many they were, or whore they lived ; nor had ho ever seen 
or heard the fire of any of their guns, much less had they fhown 
him any of their other retired places ; such as tlie cave in the valley, 
or the new retreat which the two Englishmen had made, and tlie like. 

The first testimony they had that this fellow had given intelligence 
of them was, that about two months after this, six canoes of savages 
with about seven, or eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing a, long 
the north side of the island, where they never used to come before, 
and landed about an lioiir after sunrise, at a convenient place, about 
a mile fi-om tlie habitation of the tw^o Englishmen where this cscajjed 
man had been kept. As the Bjiaiiiard governor said, had they been 
all there, the damage would not have been so much, for not a man 
of them would have escaped ; but the case differed now very much, 
for two men to fifty was too much odds. The two men had the 
happiness to discover them about a league off, so that it was above 
an hour before they landed, and as they landed a mile from theii 
huts, it was some time before they could come at them. Now having 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 321 


great reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first thing they 
did, was to bind the two slaves which were left, and cause two of the 
three men, whom they brought with the women, who it seems proved 
very faithful to them, to lead them with their two wives, and what- 
ever they could carry away with them, to their retired j)lace in the 
woods, which I have spoken of above, and there to bind the two 
fellows hand and foot- till they heard farther. 

In the next place, seeing the savages wci’e all come on shore, 
and that they bent their course directly that way, they opened the 
fences where their milch-goats were kept, and drove them all out, 
leaving their goats to straggle into the wood, whither they pleased, 
that the savages miglit tliink tliey were all bred wild ; but the 
rogue wdio came with them was too cunning for that, and gave them 
an account of it all ; for they went directly to tlie place. 

When the two poor frighted men had secui-ed their wives and 
goods, they sent the other slave they had of the three, wlio came 
with the women, and who was at their place by accident, away 
to the Spaniard, with all speed, to give them the alarm, and de- 
sire speedy help ; and in the meantime they took their arms, 
and what ammunition they had, and retreated towards the place 
in the wood, where their wives were sent, keeping at a distance, 
yet so that they might see, if possible, which way the savages 
took. 

They had not gone far, but that, from a rising gi’ouud, they 
could see the little army of their enemies come on directly to 
their halntation, and in a moment more could see all tlieir huts and 
household stuff llaming up together, to their gJ'eat grief and mortifica- 
tion ; for they had a very great loss, to them irretrievable, at least 
for some time. They kept their station for awhile, till they found 
tne savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves all over the place, 
rummaging every way and every place they could think of, in search 
for prey, and in particular for the people, of whom it now plainly 
appeared they had intelligence. 

The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure 
where they stood, because as it was likely some of the wild people 
might come that way, so they might come too many together, thought 
it proper to make aiiotlier retreat about half a mile farther, believing, 
as it afterwards happened, that the farther they strolled, the fewer 
would be together. 

The next halt was at the entrance into a very thick grown jiart of 
the woods, and where an old trunk of a tree stood, whicli was hollow 
and vastly large ; and in this tree they both took their standing, 
resolving to see there what might offer. 

They had not stood there long, but two of the savages appeared 
running directly that way, as if they had already had notice whei'e 
they stood, and were coming up to attack them ; and a little way 
farther, they spied three more coming after them, and five more 



322 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

beyond them, all coming the same way; besides which, they saw seven 
or eight more at a distance, running another way ; for in a word, 
they ran every way like sportsmen beating for their game. 

The poor men were now in groat perplexity, whether they should 
stand and keep their posture, or fly : but after a very short debate 
with themselves, they considered, that if the savages ranged the 
country thus before help came, they might perhaps find out their 
retreat in the woods, tlien all would be lost ; so they resolved to 
stand them there ; and if they were too many to deal with, then 
they would get up to the top of the tree, from whence they doubted 
not to defend themselves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition 
lasted, though all the savages that were lauded, which was near fifty, 
wore to attack them. 

Having resolved upon this, they next considered whetlier they 
should fire at the first two, or wait for the three, and so take the 
middle party, by which the two and the five that followed would be 
separated ; and they resolved to let the two first pass by, unless they 
should spy them in the tree, and come to attack them. The twH) 
first savages also confirmed them in this regulation, by turning a 
little from them tow^ards another part of the wood ; but the three, 
and the five after them, came forwards directly to the tree, as if they 
had known tlio Englishmen were there. 

Seeing them come so straiglit towards them, they resolved to take 
them in a line as they came ; and as they resolved to fire but one 
at a time, perhaps the first shot might hit them all thi’ee, to which 
purpose the man who w^as to fire put throe or four bullets into liis 
piece, and having a fair loophole, as it were, from a broken hole in 
the tree, he took a sure aim; without being seen, waiting till they 
wTro wdthin about thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not miss. 

While they w^ere thus waiting, and the savages came on, they 
plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway savage that had 
escaped from tlnnn, and they both knew him distinctly, and resolved 
that, if possible, he should not escape, though they should both fire ; 
so the other stood ready with his piece, that if he did not drop at 
the first shot, he should be sure to have a second. 

}3ut the first w^as too good a marksman to miss his aim ; for as the 
savages kept near one another, a little behind in a line, in a word, 
he fired, and hit two of them directly. The foremost was killed 
outright, being shot in the head. The second, which was the run- 
away Indian, was shot through the body, and fell, but was not quite 
dead. And the third had a little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps by 
the same ball that w^ent through the body of the second, and being 
dreadfully frighted, though not much hurt, sat down upon the ground, 
screaming and yelling in a hideous manner. 

The five that w^ere behind, more frighted wdth the noise than 
sensible of the danger, stood still at first ; for the woods made the 
sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 323 

from one side to another, and the fowls rising from all parts, scream- 
ing and making, every sort, a several kind of noise according to their 
kind, just as it was when I fired the first gun that perhaps was ever 
shot off in that place since it was an island. 

However, all being silent again, and they not knowing what the 
matter was, came on unconcerned, till they came to the place where 



their companions lay in a condition miserable enough. And here the 
poor ignorant creatur(3S, not sensible that they were witliin reach of 
the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over the wounded man, 
talking, and as may he supposed, inquiring of him how he came to 
be hurt ; and wlio, it is very rational to believe, told them that a 
flash of fire first, and immediately after tliat thunder from their 
gods had killed those two, and wounded him. This, I say, is 
rational ; for nothing is more certain than that, as they saw no man 

9l_9 



324 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


near them, so they had never heard a gun in all their lives, or so 
much as heard of a gun ; neither knew they anything of killing or 
wounding at a distance with firo and bullets ; if they had, one might 
reasonably believe they would not have stood so unconcerned in 
viewing the fate of their fellows, without some vapprehension of 
their own. 

Our two men, though, as they confessed to me, it grieved them to 
be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the same time, had 
no notion of their danger ; yet having them all thus in their power, 
and the first having loaded his piece again, resolved to let fly both 
together among them ; and singling out, by agreement, which to aim 
at, they shot together, and killed or very much wounded four of 
them ; the fifth, frighted even to death, though not iiurt, fell with 
the rest, so that our men seeing them all fall together, thought they 
had killed them all. 

The belief that the savages were all killed, made our two men 
come boldly out of the tree before they had charged their guns 
agaii], which was a wrong step ; and they were under some surprise 
when they came to the place, and found no less than four of the 
men alive, and of thorn two very little hurt, and one not at all. This 
obliged them to fall upon thcjii with the stocks of their muskets; and 
first they made sure of the runaway savage, that had been the cause 
of all the miscliief, and of another that was hurt in his knee, and 
put them out of their pain; then the man that was not hurt at all 
came and kneeled down to them, with his two hands held up, and 
made piteous moans to them by gestures and signs for his life ; but 
could not say one word to them that they could understand. 

However, they signed to him to sit down at the foot of a tree 
thereby ; and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope-twine 
which ho had by great chance in his pocket, tied his two feet fast 
together, and his two hands behind him, and there they left him ; 
and, with what speed they could, made after the other two, which 
were gone before ; fearing they, or any more of them, should find the 
way to their covered place in the woods, where their wives, and the 
few goods they had left, lay. They came once in sight of the two 
men, but it was at a great distance ; however, they had the satisfac- 
tion to see them cross over a valley towards the sea, the quite 
contrary way from that which led to their retreat, which they were 
afraid of ; and being satisfied with that, they went back to the tree 
where they left their prisoner, who, as they supposed, was delivered 
by his comrades ; for he was gone, and the two pieces of rope- 
yarn, with which they had bound him, lay just at the foot of the 
tree. 

They were now in as great a concern as before, not knowing what 
course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in what numbers ; 
so they resolved to go away to the place where their wives were, to 
see if all was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 325 


enough to be sure ; for though the savages were their own country- 
folk, yet they were most terribly afraid of them, and perhaps the 
more, for the knowledge they had of them. 

When they came there, they found the savages had been in the 
wood, and very near that place, but had not found it ; for it was, 
indeed, inaccessible, by the trees standing so thick, as before, had 
not the persons seeking it been directed by those who knew it, which 
these did not ; they found therefore everything very safe, only the 
women in a terrible friglit. While they were here, they had the 
comfort to have seven of the Spaniards come to their assistance ; 
the other ten, with their servants, and old Friday, I mean Friday’s 
father, were gone in a body to defend their bower, and the corn and 
cattle that was kept there, in case the savages should have roved 
over to that side of the country; but they did not spread so far. 
With the seven Spaniards came one of the three savages, who, as I 
said, were their prisoners formerly ; and with them also came the 
savage, whom the Englishmen had left bound hand and foot at the 
tree ; for it seems they came that way, saw the slaughter of the 
seven men, and unbound the eighth, and brought him along with 
them ; where, however, they were obliged to bind him again, as they 
had the two others, who were left w'hen the tliird run away. 

The prisoners began now to be a burden to them ; and they were 
so afraid of their escaping, tiiat they were once resolving to kill them 
all, believing they were under an absolute necessity to do so, for 
their own preservation. However, the Spaniard governor would not 
consent to it, but ordered for the present that tliey should be sent 
out of the way to my old cave in the valley, and bo kept tliere with 
two Spaniards to guard them, and give them food for their subsist- 
ence, which was done ; and they ^Ycre bound there hand and foot foi* 
that night. 

When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so encouraged 
that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there ; but 
taking five of the Spaniards, and themselves, witli four muskets and 
a pistol among them, and two stout quarter-staves, away they went 
in quest of the savages. At first they came to the tree where the 
men lay that had been killed ; but it was easy to see that some more 
of the savages had been there ; for they had attempted to carry their 
dead men away, and had dragged two of them a good ^vay, but liad 
given it over. From thence they advanced to the first rising ground, 
where they stood, and saw their camp destroyed, and where tliey had 
the mortification still to see some of the smoke ; but neitlier could 
they here see any of the savages. Then they resolved, though with 
all possible caution, to go forward towards their ruined plantation. 
But a little before they came thither, coming in sight of the sea- 
shore, they saw plainly the savages all embarking again in their 
canoes, in order to be gone. 

They seemed sorry at first ; and there was no way to come at 



326 THE LIFE AXD ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


them to give them a parting blow ; but, upou the whole, were very 
well satisfied to be rid of them. ‘ 

The poor Euglisliincn being now twice ruined, and all their im- 
provement destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help them 
rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies. Their three 
countrymen, who were not yet noted for having the least inclination 
to do any good, yet as soon as they heard of it (for they living 
remote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till all was over) came 
and offered their help and assistance, and did very friendly work for 
several days, to restore their habitation, and make necessaries for 
them. And thus, in a little time, they were set upon their legs 
again. 

About two days after this, they had the farther satisfaction of 
seeing three of the savages’ canoes come driving on shore, and at 
some distance from them, two drowned men ; by which they had 
reason to believe that tliey had met with a storm at sea, and had 
overset some of them ; for it had blown very hard the very night 
after they went off. 

However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand, enough 
of them escaped to inform the rest, as well of what they had done, 
as of what had happened to them ; and to whet them on to another 
enterprise of the same nature, wliich they, it seems, resolved to at- 
tempt, with sufficient force to carry all before them ; for except what 
the first man had told them of inhabitants, they could say little to it 
of their own knowledge ; for they never saw one man, and the fellow 
being killed that had affirmed it, they had no other witness to con- 
firm it to them. 

It was five or six months after this before they heard any more of 
the savages ; in which time our men were in hopes they had either 
forgot their former bad luck, or given over the hopes of better; when 
on a sudden they were invaded with a most formidable fleet, of no 
less than eight-and-twenty canoes full of savages, armed with bows 
and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, and such-like engines of 
war ; and they brought such numbers with them, that, in short, it 
put all our people into the utmost consternation. 

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side 
of the island, our men had that night to consult and consider what 
to do ; and, in the first place, knowing that their being entirely con- 
cealed was their only safety before, and would much more be so now, 
while the number of their enemies was so great, they therefore re- 
solved first of all to take down the huts which were built for the two 
Englishmen, and drive away their goats to the old cave ; because 
they supposed the savages would go directly thither, as soon as it 
was day, to play the old game over again, though they did not now 
land within two leagues of it. 

In the next place, they drove away all the flock of goats they had 
at the old bower, as I called it, which belonged to the Spaniards ; 






THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 329 

and in short, left as little appearance of inhabitants anywhere as was 
possible ; and the next morning early they posted themselves with 
all their force at the plantation of the two men, waiting for their 
coming. As they guessed, so it happened ; these new invaders 
leaving their canoes at tlie east end of the island, came ranging along 
the shore directly towards the place, to the number of two hundred 
and fifty, as near as our men could judge. Our army was but small 
indeed ; but that wliich was worse, they had not arms for all their 
number neither. The whole account, it seems, stood tlius. First, 
as to the men. 

17 Spaniards. 

5 Englishmen. 

1 Old Friday, or Friday’s father. 

8 The three slaves taken with the women, who proved faithful. 

3 Other slaves who lived wdth the Spaniards. 

To arm these, they had, 

11 Muskets. ^ 

5 Pistols. 

3 Fowling-pieces. 

5 Muskets or fowling-pieces, which were taken by mo from the 
mutinous seamen, whom I reduced. 

2 Swords, 3 old halberds. 

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusee, but they 
had every one a halberd, or a long staff, like a quarterstaff, with a 
great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his side a 
hatchet; also every one of our men had hatchets. Two of the 
women could not be prevailed upon but they would come into the 
fight ; and they had bows and arrow’s, which the Spaniards had taken 
from the savages, when the first action happened, which 1 have 
spoken of, wdiere the Indians fought with one another, and the 
women hatchets too. 

The Spaniard governor, whom I have described so often, com- 
manded the whole ; and William Atkins, who though a dreadful 
fellow for wickedness, was a most daring bold fellow, commanded 
under him. The savages came forward like lions, and our men, which 
was the worst of their fate, had no advantage in their situation ; 
only that Will Atkins, who now proved a very useful fellow, with 
six men, was planted just behind a small thicket of bushes, as an 
advanced guard, with orders to let the first of them pass by, and then 
fire into the middle of them; and, as soon as he had fired, to make 
his retreat as nimble as he could round a part of the wood, and so 
come in behind the Spaniards wdi^re they stood, having a tliicket of 
trees all before them. 

When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every way 
in heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let about fifty 



330 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


of them pass by him, then seeing the rest come in a very thick throng, 
he orders three of his men to fire, having loaded their mnskets with 
six or seven bullets apiece, about as big as large pistol-bullets. How 
many they killed or wounded they knew not, but the consternation 
and surprise was inexpressible among the savages ; they were frighted 
to the last degree, to hear such a dreadful noise, and see their men 
killed, and others hurt, but see nobody that did it ; when in the 
middle of their fright, W. Atkins and his other three lot fly again 
among the thickest of them ; and in less than a minute the first three, 
being loaded again, gave them a third volley. 

Had W. Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as they 
had fired, as they were ordered to do ; or ha(l the rest of the 
body boon at hand to have poured in their shot continually, the 
savages had been effectually routed ; for the terror that was among 
them came princi])ally from this, viz., that they were killed by the 
gods with thundtu' and lightning, and could see nobody that hurt 
them ; but W. Atkins staying to load again, discovered the cheat. 
Home of tlic savages wlio were at a distance, s]>ying them, came 
upon them behind, and though Atkins and his men fired at them also, 
^two or three times, and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as they 
jemdd, yet tliey wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of his fellow 
{Englishmen with tlieir arrows, as they did afterwards one Spaniard, 
and one of tiie Indian slaves who came witli the women ; this 
slas’e was a most gallant fellow, and fought most desperately, killing 
five of tliem with his own hand, having no weapon, but one of the 
armed staves and a hatchet. 

Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two other 
men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wood, and the 
Spaniards after firing three volleys upon them retreated also ; for 
their number was so great, and they Avere so desx^erate, that though 
above fifty of them were killed, and more than so many wounded, yet 
they came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of danger, and shot 
their arrows like a cloud ; and it was observed that their wounded 
men, who were not quite disabled, were made outrageous by their 
wounds, and fought like madmen. 

When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and the English- 
man that was killed behind them ; and the savages, when they came 
up to them, killed them over again in a wretched manner, breaking 
the arms, legs, and heads with their clubs and wooden swords, 
like true savages. But finding our men were gone, they did not seem 
to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a kind of^a ring, which 
is, it seems, their custom, arid shouted twice in token of their victory. 
After which, they had the mortification to see several of their wounded 
men fall, dying with the mere loss of blood. 

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together 
upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, would have 
had him march, and charge them again all together at once. But the 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 331 

Spaniard replied, Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded men 
fight, let them alone till morning; all these wounded men will be 
stiff and sore with their wounds, and faint with the loss of blood ; 
and so we shall have the fewer to engage. 

The advice was good. But Will Atkins replied merrily, That’s 
true, seignior, and so shall I too ; and that’s the reason I would go 
on while I am warm. Well, Seignior Atkins, says tlie Spaniard, you 
have behaved gallantly, and done 3- our part ; we will fight for you, 
if you cannot come on, but I think it best to stay till morning ; so 
they waited. 

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the savages 
in great disorder about their dead and wounded men, and a great 
hurry and noise among them where they lay, they afterwards resolved 
to fall upon tliem in the night, especially if they could come to give 
them but one volley before they were discovered, which they had a 
fair opportunity to do ; for one of the two Englishmen, in whose 
quarter it was where the fight began, led them round between the 
woods and seaside westward, and then turning short south, they 
came so near where the thickest of them lay, that before they wore 
seen or heard, eight of them fired in among them, and did dreadful 
execution ui)on them ; in half a minute more, eight others fired after 
them, i)ouring in their small shot in such a quantity, that abundance 
were killed and wounded ; and all this while they wej-c not able to 
sec who hurt tliem, or which way to fly. 

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and then 
divided themselves into three bodies, and resolved to fall in among 
them all together. They had in eacii body eight persons, that is to 
say 24, whereof were 22 men, and the 2 women, who by the way 
fought desperately. 

They divided the firearms equally in each party, and so of the 
halberds and staves. They would have had the woinen keep back, 
but they said they were resolved to die with their husbands, llaving 
thus formed their little army they marched out from among the 
trees, and they came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting and 
holloaing as loud as they could ; the savages stood all together, but 
were in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting 
from three quarters together ; they w^ould have fought if they had 
seen us. And as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some 
arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though not 
dangerously. But our men gave them no time ; but running up to 
them, fired among them three ways, and then fell in with the butt- 
ends of their muskets, their swords, armed staves and hatchets, and 
laid about them so well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal scream- 
ing and howling, flying to save their hves w^hicli way soever they 
could. 

Our men were tired with the execution ; and killed, or mortally 
wounded, in the two fights, about 180 of them; the rest, being 



332 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


frighted out of tlieir wits, scoured through the woods, and over the 
hills, witli all the speed and fear that nimble feet could help them 
to do ; and as we did not trouble ourselves much to pursue them, 
they got all together to the seaside, where they landed, and where 
their canoes lay. But their disaster w’^as not at an end yet ; for it 
blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from the seaward, so that 
it was impossible for them to go oif ; nay, the storm continuing all 
niglit, wluin the tide came up, their canoes were most of them 
driven by the surge of the sea so high upon the shore, that it required 
infinite toil to get them off; and some of them were even dashed to 
pieces against the beach, or against one another. 

Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little rest that 
night ; but having refreshed themselves as well as they could, they 
resolved to march to that pai't of the island where the savages were 
fled, and see what posture tliey were in. This necessarily led them 
over the place wliorc the fight had been, and where they found several 
of the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet past recovering life ; a 
sight disagreeable enoug]\ to generous minds ; for a truly great man, 
though obliged by the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no 
delight in his misei’y. 

However, there was no need to give any orders in this case ; for 
their own savages, who were their servants, despatched those poor 
creatures with their hatch(;ts. 

At length tliey came in view of the place where the more miserable 
remains of the savages' army lay, where there appeared about an 
hundred still ; their posture was generally sitting upon the ground, 
with their knees up towai’ds their mouth, and the head put between 
the two hands, leaning down upon the knees. 

When our men came within two musket shot of them, the Spaniard 
governor ordered two muskets to be fired without ball, to alarm 
them ; this he did, fhat by their countenance he might know what 
to expect, viz., whether they were still in heart to fight, or were so 
heartily beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged, and so he might 
manage accordingly. 

This stratagem took ; for, as soon as the savages heard the first 
gun, and saw the Hash of the second, they started up upon their 
feet in the greatest consternation miaginable ; and as our men ad- 
vanced swiftly towards them, they all ran screaming and yawling 
away, with a kind of a howling noise, which our men did not under- 
stand, and liad never heard before ; and thus they rau up the hills 
into the country. 

At first, our men had muon rather the weather had been calm, and 
they had all gone away to sea. But they did not then consider that 
this might probably have been the occasion of their coming again in 
such multitudes, as not to be resisted, or, at least, to come so many 
and so often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve them. 
Will Atkins therefore, who, notwithstanding his wound, kept always 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 333 

with them, proved the best counsellor in this case. His advice was, 
to take the advantage that offered, and clap in between them and 
their boats, and so deprive them of the capacity of ever returning 
any more to plague the island. 

They consulted long about this, and some were against it, for fear 
of maki]jg the wetches fly to the woods, and live there desperate ; 
and so they should have them to hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to 
stir out about their business, and have their plantations continually 
rifled, and their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, be reduced to a 
life of continual distress. 

Will Atkijis told them they had better Jiave to do with a hundred 
men, than with a hundred nations. That as they must destroy their 
boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all of tlieni destroyed 
themselves. In a word, he showed them the necessity of it so 
plainly, that they all came into it; so they went to work immediately 
with the boats, and getting some dry wood together from a dead tree, 
they tried to set some of them on fire, but they were so wet, that 
they would jjot burn ; liowever, the fire so burned the upper part, 
that it soon made them unfit for swimming in the sea as boats. 
When the Indians saw what they were about, some of them came 
running out of the woods, and coming as near as they could to our 
men, kneeled down, and cried, Oa, Oa, Waramokoa, and some other 
words of their language, wdiich none of the others understood any- 
thing of ; but as they made pitiful gestures, and strange noises, it 
was easy to understand, they begged to have their boats spared, and 
that they would be gone, and never come there again. 

But our men were now satisfied, that they had no w^ay to ])rcserve 
themselves, or to save the colony, but effectually to prevent any of 
these people from ever going homo again ; depending upon this, tliat 
if ever so much as one of them got back into their country to tell the 
story, the colony was undone ; so that letting them know that they 
should not have any mercy, they fell to work with their canoes, and 
destroyed them every one, that the storm had not destroyed before ; 
at the sight of which, the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods 
which our people heard plain enough ; after which, they ran about 
the island like distracted men ; so that, in a word, our men did not 
really know at first what to do with them. 

Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consider, that 
while they made those people thus desperate, they ought to have 
kept good guard at the same time upon their plantations ; for though 
it is true, they had driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not 
find out their main retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, nor the 
cave in the valley, yet they found out my plantation at the bower, 
and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and planting about it ; 
trod all the corn under foot ; tore up the vines and grapes, being just 
then almost ripe, and did to our men an inestimable damage, though 
to themselves not one farthing’s worth of service. 



334 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


Though our luon were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet 
they were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and 
dowm ; for as they were too nifnblo of foot for our men, when they 
found them single, so our men durst not go about single, for fear of 
being suiTounded with their numbers. The best was, they had no 
weai)ons, for though they had bows they had no arrows left, nor any 
materials to make any, nor had they any edged tool or weapon among 
them. 

The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great, and 
indeed dcjplorable ; but at the same time, our men were also brought 
to very bad circumstances by them ; for though their retreats were 
preserved, yet their provision was destroyed, and their harvest 
spoiled, and what to do, or which way to turn tliemselves, they 
knew not. The only refuge tliey had now, \vas the stock of cattle 
they had in tlie valley by the cave, and some little corn which grew 
there ; and the plantation of the three Englishmen, William Atkins 
and his comrades, who -were now reduced to two, one of them being 
killed by an arrow which struck him on the side of his head, just 
under the temple, so that he never si)oko more ; and it was very re- 
markable, that this was the same bai'barous fellow who cut the poor 
savage slave wdth Iiis hatchet, and who afterwards intended to have 
murdered all the Spaniards. 

I looked upon their case to have been w’orso at this tinie, tlian 
ml JO was at any time, after i first discovered the grains of barley 
and rice, and got into the manner of planting and raising my corn, 
and my tame cattle ; for now they had, as I may say, a Imndred 
wolves upon the island, wdiich would devour everything they could 
come at, yet could very hardly be come at themselves. 

The first thing they concluded, wdieu they saw wdiat theij* circum- 
stances were, was, that they would, if possible, drive them up to the 
farther part of the island, south-west, that if any ]nore savages came 
on shore, they might not find one anobher. Then, that they would 
daily huijt and harass them, and kill as many of them as tlicy could 
come at, till they had reduced their man her ; and if they could at 
last tame them, and bring them to anything, they w^ould give them 
corn, and teach them bow to plant and live upon their daily labour. 

In order to this, they so followed tlic/n, and so terrified them with 
their guns, that in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an 
Indian, if he did not hit liim, yet lie would fall down for fear ; and 
so dreadfully frighted they were, that they kept out of siglit farther 
and farther, till at last our men following them, and every day 
almost killing and wounding some of them, they kept up in the w^oods 
and hollow places so much, that it reduced them to the utmost misery 
for want of food, and many w^ere afterwards found dead in the woods, 
w'ithout any hurt, but merely starved to death. 

When our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and pity 
moved them ; especially the Spaniard governor, who was the most 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 335 


gentlemanly, generous -minded man that ever I met with in my life ; 
and he proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and bring him 
to understand what they meant, so far as to be able to act as inter- 
preter, and to go among them, and see if they might be brought to 
some conditions tliat might be depended upon, to save their lives 
and to do us no spoil. 

It was some while before any of them could bo taken ; but being 
weak and half-starved one of tliem was at last sur])rised and made a 
prisoner ; he was sullen at first, and would neither eat or drink, 
but finding himself kindly used, and victuals given him, and no 
violence offered him, he at last grew tractable, and came to himself. 

They brought old Triday to him, who talked often with him, and 
told him how kind the others would be to them all ; that they would 
not only save their lives, but would give them a part of tbe island 
to live in, provided they \vould give satisfaction that they w^ould keep 
in their own bounds, and not come beyond it, to injure or pi'cjudice 
others, and that they should have corn given them, to plant and 
make it grow foi' their bread, and some bread given them for their 
present subsistence ; and old Trklay bad the fellow go and talk 
with the rest of his countrymen, and see what they said to it, assur- 
ing them, that if they did not agree immediately, they should be all 
destroyed. 

The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and i-educed in iiumber 
to about thirty-seven, closed witli the proposal at the first offer, and 
begged to have some food given them; upon whicli, twx*lve Sj)aniards 
and two Englishmen, well armed, with three Indian slaves, a} id old 
Triday, marched to the place wdiere they were; the three Indian 
6la\es carried them a large quantity of bread ; some I’ice boiled u]) 
to cakes, and dried in tlio sun, and three live goats; and they were 
ordered to go to the side of a hill, where they sat down, eat the pro- 
visions very thankfully, and were the most faithful fellow^s to their 
words that could be thought of ; for except when they came to beg 
victuals and directions, they never came out of their bounds ; 
and there they lived when I came to the island, and I went to see 
them. 

They had taught tliem both to plant corn, make bread, breed 
tamo goats and milk them ; they \vauted nothing but wives, and 
they soon would have been a nation. They were confined to a neck 
of land, surrounded with high rocks behind them, and lying plain 
towards the sea before them, on the south-east corner of the island. 
They liad land enough, and it was very good and fruitful ; they had 
a piece of land about a mile and half broad, and throe or four miles 
in length. 

Our men taught them to malm wooden spades, such as I made for 
myself, and gave them among them twelve hatchets and three or four 
knives; and tl 1 ere tliey lived the most subjected innocent creatures 
that ever were heard of. 



336 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity with respect 
to the savages, till I came to, revisit them, which was above two 
years ; not but that now and then some canoes of savages came on 
shore for their triumphal unnatural feasts, but as they were of several 
nations, and perhaps had never heard of those that came before, or 
the reason of it, they did not make any search or inquiry after their 
countrymen ; and if they had, it would have been very hard to have 
found them out. 

Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that happened to 
them, to iny return, at least that was worth notice. The Indians or 
savages were wonderfully civilized by them, and they frequently went 
among them, but forbid, on pain of death, any one of the Indians 
coining to them, because they would not have their settlement 
betrayed again. 

One thing was very remarkable, viz., that they taught the 
savages to make wicker-work, or baskets; but they soon outdid 
their masters ; for they made abundance of most ingenious things 
in wicker-work ; particularly, all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-cages, 
cupboards, etc., as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and 
abundance of other things, being very ingenious at such work, when 
they were once ^lut in the way of it. 

My coming was a particular relief to tliese people, because we 
furnished them with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pickaxes, and 
all things of that kind which they could want. 

With the help of those tools they were so very handy, that they 
came at last to build up their huts, or our houses, very handsomely ; 
raddling or working it up like basket-work all the way round, which 
was a very extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd, 
but was an exceeding good fence, as well against heat, as against all 
sorts of vermin ; and our men were so taken with it, that they got 
tlie wild savages to come and do the like for them ; so that when I 
came to see the two Englishmen s colonies, they looked, at a distance, 
as if they lived all like bees in a hive ; and as for Will Atkins, who 
was now become a very industrious, necessary, and sober fellow, he 
had made himself such a tent of basket-work as I believe was never 
seen ; it was 120 paces round in the outside, as I measured by my 
steps ; the walls were as close worked as a basket, in panels or 
squares of 32 in number, and very strong, standing about seven foot 
high; in the middle was another not above 22 paces round, but 
built stronger, being eight-square in its form, and in the eight corners 
stood eight very strong posts, round the top of which he laid strong 
pieces pinned together with wooden pins, from which he raised a 
pyramid for the roof of eight rafters, very handsome, I assure you, 
and joined together very well, though he had no nails, and only a 
few iron spikes, which he made himself too, out of the old iron that 
I had left there ; and, indeed, this fellow showed abundance of 
ingenuity in several things which he had no knowledge of. He made 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 337 

him a forge, with a pair of wooden bellows to blow the fire ; he made 
himself charcoal for his w^’ork ; and he formed out of one of the iron 
crows a middling good anvil to hammer upon ; in this manner he 
made many things, but especially hooks, staples and spikes, bolts 
and hinges. But to return to the house ; after he had pitched the 
roof of his innermost tent, he worked it up between the rafters with 
basket-work so firm, and thatched that over again so ingeniously 
with rice-straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree, which covered the 
top, that his house was as dry as if it had been tiled or slated. 
Indeed, he owned that the savages made the basket-work for him. 

The outer circuit was covered, as a lean-to, all rouhd this inner 
apartment, and long rafters lay from tlie two-and-thirty angles to the 
top posts of the inner house, being about twenty foot distance ; so 
that there was a space like a walk within the outer wicker wall, •end 
without the inner, near twenty foot wide. 

The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker-work, but 
much fairer, and divided it into six apartments, so that he had six 
rooms on a floor ; and out of every one of these there was a door, 
first into the entry or coming into the main tent, and another door 
into the space or walk that ’was round it ; so that walk was also 
divided into six equal parts, which served not only for retreat, but to 
store up any necessaries which the family had occasion for. These 
six spaces not taking up the whole circumference, what other apart- 
ments the outer circle had were thus ordered. As soon as you were 
in at the door of the outer circle, you had a short passage straight 
before you to the door of the inner house, but on either side was a 
wicker partition, and a door in it, by which you went, first into a 
large room or storehouse, twenty foot wide and about thirty foot 
long, and through that into another not quite so long ; so that in the 
outer circle was ten handsome rooms, six of which were only to be 
come at through the apartments of the inner tent, and served as 
closets or retiring rooms to the respective chambers of the inner 
circle ; and four large warehouses or barns, or what you please to 
call them, which went in through one another, two on cither hand of 
the passage that led through the outer door to the inner tent. 

Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never seen in the 
world, nor a house, or tent, so neatly contrived, much less so built. 
In this great beehive lived the three families — that is to say, Will 
Atkins and his companion ; the third was killed, but his wife 
remained with three children ; and the other two were not at all 
backward to give the widow her full share of everything, I mean, as 
to their corn, milk, grapes, etc., and when they killed a kid, or found 
a turtle on the shore ; so that they all lived well enough, though it 
was true they were not so industrious as the other two, as has been 
observed already. 

One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz., tliat as for religion, 
I don’t know that there was anything of that kind among them; 

22 



338 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


they pretty often, indeed, put one another in mind that there was a 
God, by the very common method of seamen, viz., swearing by His 
name. Nor were tlicir poor ignorant savage wives much the better 
for having been married to Christians, as we must call them ; for as 
they know very little of God themselves, so they were utterly in- 
capable of entering into any discourse with their wives about a God, 
or to talk anything to them concerning religion. 

The utmost of all the improvement which I can say the wives had 
made from them was that they had taught them to speak English 
j)retty well, and all the children they had, which were near 20 in all, 
were taught to speak English too, from their first learning to speak, 
though they at first spoke it in a very broken manner, like their 
mothers. The mothers were all a good sort of well-governed, quiet, 
laborious women, modest and decent, helpful to one another; mighty 
observant and subject to their husbands ; and wanted nothing but to 
bo well instructed in the Christian religion, and to be legally married; 
both which were happily brought about afterwards by my means, or, 
at least, in consequence of my coming among them. 

Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty 
much of my five runagate Englishmen, T must say something of the 
Spaniards, who were tlie main body of the family, and in whose 
story there are some incidents also remarkable enough. 

I had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances 
v/hen they were among the savages. They told me readily that they 
liad no instances to give of their application or ingenuity in that 
country ; that they were a poor miserable dejected handful of people; 
that if means had been put into their hands, they had yet so aban- 
doned themselves to despair, and so sunk under the weight of their 
misfortunes, that they thought of nothing but starving. One of 
them, a grave and very sensible man, told me he was convinced they 
were in the wrong ; that it was not the part of wise men to give up 
themselves to their misery, but always to take hold of the helps 
which reason olfered, as well for present support as for future deliver' 
anco. He told me that grief was the most senseless, insignificant 
passion in the world ; for that it 3*egarded only tilings past, which 
were generally impossible to be recalled or to be remedied, but had 
no view to things to come, and had no share in anytliing that looked 
like deliverance, but rather added to the affliction than proposed a 
remedy. And ux)on this he rexjeated a Spanish proverb ; which 
though I cannot repeat in just the same words that he spoke in, yet 
I rcmembeL' I made it into an English proverb of my own, thus : 

lu trouble to be troubled, 

Is to have your trouble doubled. 

He ran on then in remarks upon all the little improvements I had 
made in my solitude ; my unwearied application, as he called it, 
and how I had made a condition, which, in its circumstances, was at 




339 


THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

first much worse than theirs a thousand times, more happy than 
theirs was, even now, when they were all together. He told me it 
was remarkable that Englishmen had a greater presence of mind in 
their distress than any people that ever he met witli ; that their un- 
happy nation, and the Portuguese, were the worst men in the world 
to struggle with misfortunes; for that their first step in dangers, after 
the common efforts are over, was always to despair, lie down under 
it and die, without rousing their tli oughts up to proper remedies for 
escape. 

I told him thc'ir case and mine differed exceedingly, that they wore 
cast upon the shore witli out necessaries, without supply of food, or of 
present sustenance, till they could provide. That it is true, I had 
this disadvantage and discomfort, that I was alone ; but then the 
supplies I had providentially thrown into my hands, by the unex- 
pected driving of the ship on shore, was such a help as would have 
encouraged any creature in the world to have applied himself as I 
had done. Seignior, says the Spaniard, had we ])oor Spaniards been 
in your case, we should never have gotten half those tilings out of 
the ship as you did. Nay, says he, we should never have found 
means to have gotten a raft to carry them, or to have gotten the 
raft on shore without boat or sail ; and how much less should we 
have done, said he, if any of us had been alone? Well, I desired 
him to abate his coinpliment, and go on with the history of tJieir 
coming on shore, where they landed. Ho told me tlicy unhappily 
landed at a place where there were peo])le wutliout provisions; 
whereas had they had the common sense to have ])ut off to sea again, 
and gone to another island a little farther, the.y had found provisions, 
though without people ; there being an island that way, as they had 
been told, wliere there w^as provisions, though no people ; that is to 
say, that the Spaniards of Trinhlad had fre(]uently been there, and 
had filled the island with goats and hogs at several times ; where 
they have bred in such multitudes, and where turtle and sea-fowls 
w^ere in such ])lenty that they could have been in no want of flesh, 
though they had found no bread ; w^hereas here they were only sus- 
tained with a few roots and herbs, which they understood not, and 
which had no substance in them, and which the inhabitants gave 
them sparingly enough, and who could treat them no better unless 
they would turn cannibals, and eat men’s llcsh, wdiich was the great 
dainty of their country. 

They gave me an account how many ways they strove to civilize 
the savages they were with, and to teach them rational customs in 
the ordinary w^ay of living, but in vain; and how they retorted it 
upon them as unjust, that they who came there for assistance and 
support, should attempt to set up for instructors of those that gave 
them bread ; intimating, it seems, tliat none should set up for the 
instructors of others, but those wdio could live without them. 

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven 

22—2 



340 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


to ; how sometimes they were many days without any food at all ; 
the island they were upon being inhabited by a sort of savages that 
lived more indolent, and for that reason were less supplied with the 
necessaries of life, than they had reason to believe others were in 
the same part of the world ; and yet they found, that these savages 
w-ere less ravenous and voracious, than those who had better supplies 
of food. 

Also they added, that they could not but see with what demon- 
strations of wisdom and goodness the governing providence of God 
directs the events of things in the world ; which, they said, appeared 
in their circumstances ; for if, pressed by the hardships they were 
under, and the barrenness of the country where they were, they had 
searched after a better place to live in, they had then been out of the 
way of the relief that happened to them by my means. 

Then they gave me an account how the savages, whom they lived 
among, expected them to go out with them into their wars : and it 
was true that, as they had firearms with them, had they not had 
tlie disaster to lose their ammunition, they should not have been 
serviceable only to their friends, but have made themselves terrible 
both to friends and enemies ; but being without ]DOwdcr and shot, 
and yet in a condition that they could not in reason deny to go out 
with their landlords to their wars, when they came into the field of 
battle, they were in a woj'se condition than the savages tliemselves, 
foi’ they neither had bows or arrows, nor could they use those the 
savages gave them ; so that they could do notliing but stand still, 
and be wounded with arrows, till they came up to the teeth of their 
enemy, and then indeed the three halberds they had were of use to 
them ; and they would often drive a whole little army before tliem 
with those halberds and sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of 
their muskets : but that for all this they were sometimes surrounded 
with multitudes, and in great danger from their arrows, till at last 
they found the way to make themselves large targets of wood, which 
they covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they knew not ; 
and these covered them from the arrows of the savages ; that not- 
withstanding these, they were sometimes in great danger, and were 
once five of them knocked down together with the clubs of the 
savages, which was the time when one of them was taken prisoner ; 
that is to say, the Spaniard whom I had relieved, that at first they 
thought had been killed : but when afterwards they heard he was 
taken prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imaginable, and 
would willingly have ventured their lives to have rescued him. 

They told me tliat when they were so knocked down, the rest of 
their company rescued them, and stood over them, fighting till they 
were come to themselves, all but him who they thought had been 
dead ; and then they made their way with their halberds and pieces, 
standing close together in a line, through a body of above a 
thousand savages, beating down all that came in their way, got the 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 341 

victory over their enemies, but to their great sorrow, because it was 
with the loss of their friend ; whom, the other party finding him 
alive, carried off with some others, as I gave an account in my 
former story. 

They described most affectionately how they were surprised with 
joy at the return of their friend and companion in misery, who they 
thought had been devoured by wild beasts of the worst kind, viz., by 
wild men ; and yet how more and more they were surprised with the 
account he gave them of his errand, and that there was a Christian 
in any place near, much more one that was able, and had humanity 
enough to contribute to their deliverance. 

They described how they were astonished at the sight of the relief 
I sent them, and at the appearance of loaves of bread, things they 
had not seen since their coining to that miserable place; how often 
they crossed it, and blessed it, as bread sent from Heaven ; and what 
a reviving cordial it was to their spirits to taste it ; as also of the 
other things I had sent for their supply. And after all, they would 
have told me something of the joy they were in at the sight of a 
boat and pilots to carry them away to the person and place from 
whence all these new comforts came ; but they told mo it was im- 
possible to express it by wmrds, for their excessive joy, naturally 
driving them to unbecoming extravagances, they had no way to de- 
scribe them but by telling me that they bordered upon lunacy, having 
no way to give vent to their passion suitable to the sense that was 
upon them ; that in some it worked one way, and in some another ; 
and that some of them, through a surprise of joy, would burst out 
into tears : others be stark mad, and others immediately faint. This 
discourse extremely affected me, and called to my mind Friday’s 
ecstasy when he met his fatlier, and the poor people’s ecstasy when 
I took them up at sea, after their shij) was on fire ; the mate of the 
ship’s joy, when he found himself delivered in the place where he ex- 
pected to perish ; and my own joy when, after 28 years* captivity, I 
found a good ship ready to carry me to my own country. All these 
things made me more sensible of the relation of those ]Door men, and 
more affected with it. 

Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them, 
I must relate the headt of what I did for these people, and the con- 
dition in which I left them. It was their opinion, and mine too, 
that they would be troubled no more with the savages ; or that if 
they were, they would be able to cut them off, if they were twice as 
many as before ; so they had no concern about tiiat. Then I entered 
into a serious discourse with the Spaniard, whom I call Governor, 
about their stay in the island ; for as I was not come to carry any 
of them off, so it would not be just to carry off’ some, and leave 
others, who perhaps would be unwilling to stay if their strength was 
diminished. 

On the other hand, I told them I came to establish them there, 



342 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


not to remove them ; and thou I let them know that I had brought 
with me relief of sundry kinds for them ; that I had been at a great 
charge to supply them with all things necessary, as well for their 
convenience as tlieir defence ; and that I had such and such parti- 
cular i)erBons with me, as well to increase and recruit tlieir number, 
as by the j)articular necessary employments which they were bred 
to, being artificers, to assist them in those things, in wdiich, at 
present, they were to seek. 

They ere all together when I talked thus to them ; and before I 
delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked them one by one 
if they had entirely foi'got, and buried the first animosities that had 
been among them, and would shako hands with one another, and 
engage in a strict friendship and union of interest, that so there 
might be no more misunderstandings or jealousies. 

Will Atldns, with abundance of frankness and good humour, said, 
they had met with afflictions enough to make them all sober, and 
enemies enough to make tliem all friends ; that for his part, he would 
live and die with them ; and was so far from designing anytliing 
against the Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing to him 
but what his own mad humour made necessary, and what he would 
have done, and perhaps much worse, in their case; and that he 
would ask tliem jiardon, if I desired it, for the foolish and brutish 
things be had done to them ; and was very willing and desirous of 
living in terms of entire friendship and union with them ; and would 
do anything that lay in his power to convince them of it ; and as for 
going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither these twenty 
year. 

The Spaniards said they had indeed at first disarmed and ex- 
cluded Will Atkins and his two countrymen for their ill conduct, 
as they had let me know ; and they appealed to me for the neces- 
sity they were under to do so. But that Will Atkins had behaved 
himself so bravely in the great fight they had with the savages, and 
on several occasions since, and liad showed himself so faithful to, 
and concerned for, the general interest of them all, that they had 
forgotten all that was past, and thought he merited as much to be 
trusted with arms and supplied with necessaries as any of them ; 
and that they had testified their satisfaction in him by committing 
the command to him, next to the governor himself. And as they 
had an enthe confidence in him and all his countrymen, so they 
acknowledged they had merited that confidence by all the methods 
that honest men could merit to be valued and trusted ; and they 
most heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this assurance, 
that they would never liave any interest separate from one another. 

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we appointed 
the next day to dine all together ; and indeed we made a splendid 
feast. I caused the ship's cook and his mate to come on shore, and 
dress our dinner; and the old cook’s mate we had on shore, assisted. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 343 


We brought on sliore six pieces of good beef, and four pieces of pork 
out of the ship's provision, with our punch-bowl, and materials to 
fill it ; and in particular, I gave them ten bottles of Frencli claret, 
and ten bottles of English beer ; things that neither the Spaniards 
or the Englishmen had tasted for many years, and wEich, it may be 
supposed, they were exceedingly glad of. 

The Spaniards added to our feast five whole kids, which the cooks 
roasted ; and three of them were sent covered up close on board the 
ship, to the seamen, that they might feast on fresh meat from on 
shore, as we did with their salt meat from on board. 

After this feast, at which we wei*e very innocently merry, I brought 
out my caigo of goods, wherein, that there might be no dispute 
about dividing, I showed them tliat there was sufficient for them all ; 
and desired that they miglit all take an equal quantity of the goods 
tliat were for wearing ; that is to say, equal when made up ; at first, 
I distributed linen sufficient to make every one of them four shirts ; 
and at the Spaniards' request afterwards, made them up six ; these 
wore exceeding comfortable to them, having been what, as I may 
say, they had long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear 
them. 

I allotted the tliin English stuffs, to make every one a light coat, 
like a frock, which I judged fittest for the heat of the season ; cool 
and loose, and oi'dcrtid, that wdienever they dcjcayed, they should 
make more, as they thought fit. The like for pumps, shoes, stockings 
and hats, etc. 

I cannot express wdiat pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the 
'countenances of all these poor men, when they saw’ the care I had 
taken of them, and how well I had furnished them ; they told me I 
was a father to tliem, and that having such a correspondent as I 
was, ill so remote a part of the world, it would make- them forget that 
they were left in a desolate place ; and they all voluntarily engaged 
to me not to leave the place wuthout my consent. 

Then I presented to them the xieoplo I had brought with me, par- 
ticularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters, all of tliem 
most necessary people ; but above all, my general artificer, than 
whom they could not name anything that was more useful to them. 
And the tailor, to show his concern for tliem, w^ent to work im- 
mediately, and, with my leave, made them every one a shirt the first 
thing he did ; and, which was still more, he taught the w^omeii, not 
only how to sew and stitch, and use tlie needle, but made them 
assist to make the shirts for their husbands and for all the rest. 

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they were> 
for they took in pieces all my clumsy unhandy things, and made 
them clever convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, 
shelves, and everything they wanted of that kind. 

But to let them see how Nature made artificers at first, I carried 
the carpenters to sec Will Atkins's basket-house, as I called it, and 



344 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


they both owned they never saw an instance of such natural ingenuity 
before ; nor anything so regular, and so handily built, at least of its 
kind. And one of them, when he saw it, after musing a good while, 
turning about to me, I am sure, says he, that man has no need of us ; 
you need do nothing but give him tools. 

Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave every 
man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for w^e had no harrows 
or ploughs ; and to every separate place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad 
axe, and a saw ; always appointing, that as often as any w^erc broken, 
or worn out, they should bo sux)plied without grudging, out of the 
general stores that I left behind. 

Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissors, and all 
sorts of tools, and iron -work, they had without tale, as they required, 
for no man would care to take more than they wanted, and he must 
be a fool that would waste or spoil them, on any account whatever ; 
and, for the use of the smith, I left two ton of unwrought iron for a 
supply. 

My magazine of powder and arms, which I brought them, was 
such, even to j^rofusion, that they could not but rejoice at them, for 
now they could march as I used to do, with a musket u]Don each 
shoulder, if there was occasion, and were able to fight a thousand 
savages, if they had but some little advantages of situation, which 
also they could not miss of if they had occasion. 

I carried on shore with me the young man, whose mother was 
starved to death, and the maid also ; she was a sober, well-educated, 
religious young woman, and behaved so inoffensively that every one 
gave lier a good word ; she had indeed an unhappy life with uc, 
there being no woman in the ship but herself ; but she bore it with 
patience. After a while, seeing things so well ordered and in so fine 
a way of thriving upon my island, and considering that they had 
neither business or acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason for 
taking so long a voyage ; I say, considering all this, both of them 
came to me, and desired I would give them leave to remain on the 
island, and be entered among my family, as they called it. 

I agreed to it readily, and they had a little plot of ground allotted 
to them, where they had three tents or houses set up, surrounded with 
a basket-work, x>ci'hsadood like Atkins's, adjoining to his plantation. 
Their tents were contrived so, that they had each of them a room 
apart to lodge in, and a middle tent like a great storehouse to lay 
all the goods in, and to eat and drink in ; and now the other two 
Englishmen removed their habitation fo the same place, and so the 
island was divided into three colonies, and no more, viz., the 
Spaniards with old Friday, and the first servants, at my old habita- 
tion under the hill ; wliich was, in a word, the capital city ; and 
where they had so enlarged and extended their works as well under 
as on the outside of the hill, that they lived, though perfectly con- 
cealed, yet full at large. Never was there such a little city in a wood. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 345 


and so hid, I believe, in any i)art of the world ; for I verily believe, 
a thousand men might have ranged the island a month, and if they 
had not known there was such a thing, and looked on purpose for it, 
they would not have found it ; for the trees stood so thick and so 
close, and grew so fast matted into one another, that notliiug but 
cutting them down first coul 1 discover the place ; except the only 
two narrow entrances, where they went in and out, could be found, 
which was not very easy ; one of them was just down at the water- 
edge of the creek, and it was afterwards above two hundred yards to 
the place ; and the other was up the ladder at twice, as I have already 
formerly described it ; and tliey had a largo wood tliick planted, also, 
on the toj) of the hill, which contained above an acre, which grew 
apace, and covered the place from all discovery there, with only one 
narrow place between two trees, not easy to be discovered, to enter 
on that side. 

The other colony was that of Will Atkins's, where there were four 
families of Englishmen, I mean those I had left there, with their 
wives and children ; three savages that were slaves ; the widow 
and children of the Englishman that was killed ; the young man and 
the maid ; and by the way, we made a wife of her also, before we 
went away. There was also the two carpenters and the tailor, whom 
I brought with mo for them ; also the smitii, who was a very 
necessary man to them, especially as a gunsniitli, to take care of 
their arms ; and my other man, whom I called Jack of all Trades ; 
who was in himself as good, almost, as 20 men, for he was not only a 
very ingenious fellow, but a very merry fellow, and before I went 
away, we married him to the honest maid that came with the youth 
in the ship I mentioned before. 

And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say some- 
thing of the Erench ecclesiastic that I had brought with me out of 
the ship’s crew, whom I took up at sea. It is true, this man was a 
Koman, and perhaps it may give offence to some hereafter if I leave 
anything extraordinary upon record of a man whom, before I 
begin, I must (to set him out in just colours) represent in terms 
very much to his disadvantage, in the account of Protestants : as 
first, that he was a papist ; secondly, a popish priest ; and thirdly, a 
French popish priest. 

But justice demands of mo to give him a due character; and I 
must say he was a grave, sober, pious, and most religious person; 
exact in his life, extensive in his charity, and exemplar in almost 
everything he did; what then can any one say against my 
being very sensible of the value of such a man, notwitJistanding 
his profession ? Though it may be my opinion, perhaps, as 
well as the opinion of others who shall read this, that he was mis- 
taken. 

The first hour that I began to converse with him, after he had 
agreed to go with me to the East Indies, I found reason to delight 



346 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

exceedingly in his conversation; and he first began with me about 
religion in ibc most obliging manner imaginable. 

SiJ', siiys he, you have not only, under God (and at that lie crossed 
his breasl), s.ived my life, but you have admitted mo to go this 
voyage in your si) ip, and by your obliging civility have taken me into 
your fiimiiy, giving me an oj)portuuity of free conversation. Now 
sir, says be, you see by my habit what my profession is, and I guess 
by your nation what yours is : I may think it is my duty, and doubt- 
less it is so, to use my utmost endeavours, on all occasions, to bring 
all tlie souls I can to the knowledge of the truth, and to embrace 
the Catholic doctrine ; but as I am here under your i)erniission, and 
in your family, I am bound in justice to your kindness, as well as 
in decency and good manners, to be under your government ; and 
tlicreforc I shall not, wntliout your leave, enter into any debates on 
the i)oint of religion, in \vhich we may not agree, farther than you 
shall give me leave. 

I told him, his carriage was so modest, that I could not but 
acknowledge it ; that it was true, we wxire such people as they called 
liorctics ; but that he was not the first Catholic that I bad conversed 
with, witlicmt falling into any inconveniencies, or carrying the (jues- 
tions to any height in debate. Tliat be sliould not find himself the 
worse used for beiiig of a difierent opinion from us, and if w’c did not 
converse without any dislike on either side upon that score, it should 
be his fault, not ours. 

He replied, that he thought all our conversation might be easily 
sei)arate(l from disputes. That it was not his business to cap 
principles with every man he discoursed with ; and that he rather 
desired mo to converse witli him as a gentleman, than as a roligicuse ; 
that if 1 ^YOuld give him leave at any time to discourse u])on religious 
subjects, he would readily comply with it ; and that then, he did not 
doubt but r would allow him also to defend his own opinions, as well 
as he could ; but that without my leave he would not break in upon 
me with any such thing. 

Ho told mo farther, that he w'ould not cease to do all that became 
him in his office, as a priest, as well as a private Christian, to pro- 
cure tlic good of the ship, and tlie safety of all that was in her ; and 
though peiiiaps we would not join with him, and ho could not pray 
with us, he hoped he might pray /or us, which he would do upon all 
occasions. In this manner we conversed, and as ho was of a most 
obliging gentleman-like beliavionr, so he w^as, if I may be allowed to 
say so, a man of good sense, and as I believe, of great learning. 

lie gave mo a most diverting account of his life, and of the many 
extraordinary events of it ; of many adventures wiiich had befallen 
him in the feW years that he had been abroad in the world, and 
particularly this was vei'y remarkable, viz., that in the voyage he 
was now engaged, he had had the misfortune to be five times shipped 
and unshipped, and never to go to the place whither any of the ships, 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 347 


he was in, were at first designed. That his first intent was to have 
gone to Martinico, and that he went on board a ship bound iliither, 
at St. Malo ; but being forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the ship 
received some damage, by running aground in the moubii of the 
river Tagus, and was obliged to unload her cargo there ; that finding 
a Portuguese ship there bound to the Madeiras, and ready to sail, 
and supposing he should easily meet with a vessel there bound to 
Martinico, ho weiit on board, in order to sail to the Madeii’as ; but 
the master of the Portuguese shij) being but an indilferent marincT, 
had been out in his reckoning, and they drove to Fayal ; wdiere, how- 
ever, ho happened to find a very good market for his cargo, which 
was corn, and therefore resolved not to go to the INfadeiras, but to 
load salt at tlie Isle of May, and to go away to Newfoundland, lie 
had no remedy in tins exigence, but to go wdtli the sliip, and had a 
pretty good voyage as far as the Banks, so tliey call the place where 
they catch the fish, where meeting w'itli a French ship, bound from 
Franco to Quebec in tlie river of Canada, and from tlience to Mar- 
tinico, to carry provisions, he tliought lie should have an opportunity 
to complete his first design. But when he came to Quebec, the 
master of the ship died, and the ship proceeded no farther; so the 
next voyage he shipped himself for France, in tlic sliip that was 
burnt, when we took them up at sea, and then sliij^ped with us for 
the East Indies, as I have already said. Thus he had been disap- 
pointed in five voyages, all, as I may call it, in one vo}'age, besides 
what I shall have occasion to mention farther of tlie same person. 

But, 1 shall not make digressions into other men's stories, wliich 
have no relation to my own. I return to wdiat concerns our affair 
in the island. He came to me one morning, for he lodged among 
us all tlie while we wxre upon the island ; and it happened to bo just 
when 1 w^as going to visit the Englishmen’s colony, at tlie fartiiest 
part of the island, I say, he came to me and told me, with a very 
grave countenance, that he had for tw^o or three days desired an 
opportunity of some discourse with me, which he hoped should not 
be displeasing to me, because ho thouglit it might in some measure 
correspond with my general design, which was the prosperity of my 
new colony, and perliaps might put it, at least more than he yet 
thought it w^as, in the way of God’s blessing. 

I looked a little surprised at the last part of his discourse, and 
turning a little short. How, sir, said I, can it be said, that wx are not 
in the way of God’s blessing, after such visible assistances and 
wonderful deliverances, as we have seen here, and of whicli I ha\n 
given you a large account ? 

If you had pleased, sir, said he, wdtli a w'orld of modesty, and yet 
with great readiness, to have heard me, you would have found no 
room to have been disj)leased, much less to think so hard of me, that 
I should suggest, that you have not had wonderful assistances and 
deliverances ; and I liope, on your behalf, that }ou are in the w^ay of 



34S THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


God’s blessing, and your design is exceeding good, and will prosper ; 
but, sir, though it were more so, than is even possible to you, yet 
there may be some among you that are not equally right in their 
actions : and you know, that in the story of the children of Israel, 
one Achan in the camp, removed God’s blessing from them, and 
turned llis hand so against them, that six-and-thirty of them, though 
not concerned in the crime, were the object of Divine vengeance, 
and bore the weight of that punishment. 

I was sensibly touched with this discourse, and told him, his 
inference was so just, and the whole, design seemed so sincere, and 
was really so religious in its own nature, that I was very sorry I had 
interrupted him, and begged him to go on; and in the meantime, 
because it seemed that what we had both to say might take up some 
time, I told him I was going to the Englishmen’s plantations, and 
asked him to go with me, and we might discourse of it by the way : 
he told me, he would more willingly wait on mo thither, because 
there partly the thing was acted, which he desired to speak to me 
about, so we walked on; and I pressed him to be free and plain 
with me in what he had to say. 

Why then, sir, says he, be pleased to give me leave to lay down a 
few jnopositions, as the foundation of what I have to say, that we 
may not differ in tlie general principles, though we may be of some 
differing opinions in the practice of particulars. First, sir, though 
wo differ in sojne of the doctrinal Articles of Eoligion ; and it is very 
unhappy tliat it is so, especially in the case before us, as I shall sliow 
afterwards : yet there are some general principles in which we both 
agree, viz., first, that there is a God; and that this God having 
given us some stated general rules for our service and obedience, we 
ought not willingly and knowingly to offend Him ; either by neglect- 
ing to do what He has commanded, or by doing what He has 
expressly forbidden : and let our different religions be what they 
will, this general principle is readily owned by us all, that the bless- 
ing of God does not ordinarily follow a presumptuous sinning against 
His command ; and every good Christian will be affectionately con- 
cerned to prevent any that are under his care, living in a total 
neglect of God and His commands. It is not your men being 
Protestants, whatever my opinion may be of such, that discharges 
me from being concerned for their souls, and from endeavouring, if it 
lies before me, that they should live in as little distance from and 
enmity with their Maker, as possible, especially if you give me 
leave to meddle so far in your circuit. 

I could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told him, I granted 
all he had said, and thanked him, that he would so far concern him- 
self for us ; and begged he would explain the particulars of what he 
had observed, that, like Joshua, to take his own parable, I might put 
away the accursed thing from us. 

Why then, sir, says he, I will take the liberty you give me ; and 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 349 

there are throe things, ^vhich, if I am right, must stand in the way 
of God's blessing upon your endeavours here, and which I should 
rejoice for your sake, and their own, to see removed. And, sir, says 
he, I i')romise myself, that you will fully agree wdth me in them all, as 
soon as I name them ; especially because I shall convince you, that 
every one of them may, with great ease, and very much to your 
satisfaction, be remedied. ' 

He gave me no leave to put in any more civilities, but went on. 
First, sir, says he, you have here four Englishmen, who have fetclied 
women from among the savages, and have taken them as their wives, 
and yet are not married to them after any stated legal manner, as 
the laws of God and man require. To this, sir, says lie, I know you 
will object, that there was no clergyman or priest of any kind, or of 
any profession, to perform the ceremony ; nor any iien and ink, or 
paper, to write down a contract of marriage, and have it signed 
between them. And I know also, sir, what the Spaniard governor 
has told you ; I mean of the agreement that he obliged them to 
make, when they took these women, viz., that they should choose 
them out by consent, and keep separately to them ; whicli, by the 
way, is nothing of a marriage, but only an agreement among them- 
selves, to keep them from quarrelling. 

But, sir, the essence of the Sacrament of Matrimony (so he called 
it, being a Boman) consists not only in the mutual consent of the 
parties to take one another, as man and wife, but in the formal and 
legal obligation, that there is in the contract, to compel the man and 
woman at all times, to own and acknowledge cacdi other, and on 
all occasions, as ability allows, to provide honf.^stly for tlieir children. 
Now, sir, says he, these men may, when they please, or when 
occasion presents, abandon these women, disown their children, 
leave them to perish, and take other women, and marry them whilst 
these are living. 

I confess, I was struck at the thing itself, but much more with the 
convincing arguments he supported it with ; for it was certainly true, 
that though they had no clergyman upon the spot, yet a formal 
contract on both sides, made before witnesses, and confirmed by 
any token, which they had all agreed to bo bound by, though it had 
been but breaking a stick between them, engaging the men to own 
these women for their wives, upon all occasions, and never to abandon 
them or their children, and the women to the same with their 
husbands, had been an effectual lawful marriage in the sight of God ; 
and it was a great neglect that it w^as not done. 

But I thought to have gotten off with my young priest, by telling 
him, that all that part was done when I was not here, and they had 
lived so many years with them now, that it was past remedy, they 
could do nothing in it now. 

Sir, says he, asking your pardon for such freedom, you are right 
in this, that it being done in your absence, you could not be charged 



350 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


with that part of the crime. But I beseech you, flatter 3iot yourself, 
that you are not therefore under an obli^^ation to do your utmost 
now to put an end to it. How can you thiidc, but that, let the 
time past lie on whom it will, all Ihe guilt, for the future, will lie 
entirely upon you V Because it is certainly in your power now to put 
an end to it, and in nobody's powxr but yours. 

I was so dull still, that I did not take liiin right ; but I imagined 
that by putting an end to it, he meant that I should part them, and 
not suli'er them to live together any longer; and I said to him, I 
could not do that by any means, for that it would put the whole 
island into confusion. He seemed surprised, that I should so far 
mistake him. No, sir, says he, I do not mean, that you should now 
separate them, but legally and effectually marry tliein now ; and as, 
sir, my way of marrying them may not be so easy to reconcile them 
to, thougVi it will be as ehectnal, even by your own laws, so your 
way may bo as well before God, and as valid among men ; I mean, 
by a wi'itten contract, sij;ned by both man and woman, and by all 
the witnesses present, which all the laws of Europe would decree to 
be valid. 

1 was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much sincerity of 
zeal, besides the unusual impartiality in his discourse, as to his own 
party or Church, and such true warmth for the pi’oscrving people that 
ho had no knowledge of, or relation to ; I say, for presoi’ving them 
from transgressing the laws of God ; the like of which I had indeed 
not met with anywhere : but recollecting what he had said, of marry 
ing by a written contract, wdiich I knew^ would stand too, I returned 
it back upon liim, and told him, I granted all that he had said to 
be just, and on his part very kind, that f would discourse with the 
men upon the point now, when I came to them. And I knew no 
reason why they should scruple to let him marry them all, which I 
knew well enough would he granted to be as authentic and valid in 
England, as if they were married by one of our own clergymen. What 
was afterwards done in this matter, I shall speak of by itself. 

I then xu’essed him to tell mo what was the second complaint which 
he had to make, acknowledging, that I was very jimch his debtor 
for the first, and thanked him heartily for it. He told me, he would 
use the same freedom and x)kdimess in the second, and hoped I 
would take it as well. And this was, that notwithstanding these 
English subjects of mine, as he called them, had lived with those 
women for almost sevon years, had taught them to speak English, 
and even to road it ; and that they were, as he perceived, women of 
tolerable understanding, and capable of instruction ; yet they had 
not to this hour taught them anything of the Christian religion, no, 
not so much as to know that there was a God, or a worship, or in 
what manner God w^as to be served, or that their own idolatry, and 
worshipping they knew not who, was false and absurd. 

This, he said, was an unaccountable neglect, and what God would 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 351 


certainly call them to account for, and perhaps at last take the 
work out of their hands. He spoke this very affectionately and 
warmly. I am persuaded, says he, had those men lived in the savage 
country, whence their wives came, the savages would have taken 
more pains to have brought them to he idolaters, than any of these 
men, so far as he could see, had taken with them to teach them the 
knowledge of the true God. Now, sir, said he, though I do not 
acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we should be glad to 
see them taught to know the general principles of the Christian 
religion ; that they might, at least, hear of God, and of a Eedeemer, 
and of the resurrection, and of a future state, things which wo all 
believe ; they had at least been so much nearer coming into the 
bosom of the true Church, than they are now in the public profession 
of idolatry. 

I could hold no longer; I took him in my arras, and embraced 
him with an excess of passion. How far, said I to him, have I been 
from understanding the most essential part of a Christian, viz., to 
love the interest of the Christian Church, and the good of other 
men’s souls! I scarce have known what belongs to being a Christian. 
Oh, sir, do not say so, replied he, this thing is not your fault. No, 
says I, but why did I never lay it to heart as well as you ? ’Tis not 
too late yet, said he, be not too forward to condemn yourself. 13ut 
what can be done now, said T, you see I am going away ? Will you 
give me leave, said he, to talk with those poor men about it ? Yes, 
with all my heart, said I, and will oblige them to give Iieed to what 
you say too. As to that, said he, we must leave them to the mercy 
of Christ ; but it is our business to assist them, encourage them, and 
instruct them ; and if you will give me leave, and God His blessing, 
I do not doubt but the poor ignorant souls shall be brouglit home 
into the great circle of Christianity, if not into the })articular faith 
that we ail embrac(y. and that even while you stay here ; uiion this, 
I said, I shall not only give you leave, but give you a thousand thanks 
for it. What followed on this account, I shall mention also again in 
its place. 

I now pressed him for the third aiucie, in which we were to blame. 
Why really, says he, it is of the same nature, and I will ])]oceed, 
asking your leave, with the same plainness as before ; it is about 
your poor savages, who are, as I may say, your conquered subjects. 
It is a maxim, sir, that is or ought to be received among all Christians 
of what Church or pretended Church soever, viz., tlie Christian 
knowledge ought to be propagated by all possible means, and on all 
possible occasions. It is on this principle that our Church scn<Is 
missionaries into Persia, India, and China, and that our clergy, even 
of the superior sort, willingly engage in the most hazai’dous voyages, 
and the dangerous residence among murderers and barbarians, to 
teach them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring them over 
to embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have such an oppor- 



352 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


fcunity here, to have six or scven-and-thirty poor savages brought 
over from idolatry to the knowledge of God, their Maker and 
Bedeeiner, that I wonder how you can pass such an occasion of 
doing good, which is really worth the expense of a man’s whole life. 

I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one word to say. I 
had here a spirit of true Christian zeal for God and religion before 
me, let his particular principles be of what kind soever. As for me, 
I had not so much as entertained a thought of this in my heart 
before, and 1 believe should not have thought of it ; for I looked 
upon these savages as slaves, and people, whom, had we any work 
lor them to do, we would have used as such, or would have been 
glad to have transported them to any other part of the wmrld ; for 
our business was to get rid of them, and we \vould all have been 
satisfied, if they had been sent to any country, so they had never 
seen their own. But to the case : I say, I was confounded at his 
discourse, and knew not what answer to make him. lie looked 
earnestly at mo, seeing me in some disorder. Sir, says he, I shall 
be very fcorry, if what I have said gives you any offence. No, no, 
says 1, 1 am offended with nobody but myself ; but I am perfectly 
confounded, not only to think that I should never take any notice 
of this before, but with reflecting what notice I am able to take of it 
now. You know, sir, said I, what circumstances I am in ; I am 
bound to the East Indies, in a ship freighted by mercliants, and to 
whom it would be an insufferable piece of injustice to detain their 
ship liere, the men lying all this while at victuals and wages upon 
the owners’ account. It is true, I agreed to be allow^ed twelve days 
here, and if I stay more, I must pay £3 sterling per diem demurrage, 
nor can I stay upon demurrage above eight days more, and I have 
been here thirteen days already, so that I am perfectly unable to 
engage in this work, unless I would suffer myself to be left behind 
here again, in which case, if this single ship should miscarry in any 
part of her voyage, I should be just in the same condition that I 
was left in here at first, and from which I have been so wonderfully 
delivered. 

He owned the case was very hard upon me, as to my voyage ; but 
laid it home upon my conscience whether the blessing of saving 
seven-and-thirty souls was not worth my venturing all I had in the 
world for? I was not so sensible of that as he was. I returned 
upon him thus. Why, sir, it is a valuable thing, indeed, to be an in- 
strument in God’s hand to convert seven-and-thirty heathens to the 
knowledge of Christ, but as you are an ecclesiastic, and are given 
over to the work, so that it seems so naturally to fall into the way 
of your profession, how is it that you do not rather offer yourself to 
undertake it, than press me to it ? 

Upon this he faced about, just before me, as we walked along, and 
putting me to a full stop made me a very low bow ; I most heartily 
thank God and you, m, says he, for giving me so evident a call to so 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 353 

blessed a work ; and if you think yourself discharged from it, and 
desire me to undertake it, I will most readily do it, and think it a 
happy reward for all the hazards and difficulties of sucli a broken, 
disappointed vo} age as I have met with, that I may be dropped at 
last into so glorious a work. 

I discovered a kind of rapture in his face while ho spoke this to 
me ; his eyes sparkled like hre, his face glowed, and his colour came 
and went, as if he had been falling into fits ; in a word, he was fired 
with the joy of being embarked in such a work. I paused a con- 
siderable while before I could tell what to say to him, for I was 
really surprised to find a man of such sincerity and zeal, and carried 
out in his zeal beyond tlie ordinary rate of men, not of his profession 
only, but even of any profession whatsoever. But after I had con- 
sidered it awhile, I asked him seriously if he was in earnest, and 
that he would venture on the single consideration of an attempt on 
those poor people, to bo locked up in an un pi anted island for, per- 
haps, his life, and at last might not know whether he should be able 
to do them any good or not? 

He turned short upon me, and asked me what I called a venture ? 
Pray, sir, said he, wliat do you think I consented to go in your ship 
to the East Indies for? Nay, said I, that I know not, unless it was 
to preach to the Indians. Doubtless it was, said ho ; and do you 
think, if I can convert those seven -and-tliirty men to tlie faith of 
Christ, it is not worth my time, though I should never bo fetclied off 
the island again ? nay, is it not infinitely of more worth to save so 
many souls tlian my life is, or the life of twenty more of the same 
profession ? Yes, sir, says he, I would give Christ thanks all my 
days, if I could bo made the least happy instrument of saving the 
souls of these poor men, though I was never to set my foot off of 
this island, or see my native country any more. But since you will 
honour me, says he, with putting me into this work, for which I will 
pray for you all the days of my life, I have one humble petition to 
you, said he, besides. What is that? said I. Wliy, says he, it is 
tliat you will leave your man Friday with me, to be my interpreter 
to them, and to assist me ; for without some help I cannot speak to 
them, or they to me. 

I was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday, because I could 
not think of parting with him, and that for many reasons ; he had 
been the companion of my travels ; he was not only faithful to me, 
but sincerely affectionate to the last degree, and I had resolved to 
do something considerable for him if he outlived me, as it was pro- 
bable he would. Then I knew that, as I had bred Friday up to be a 
Protestant, it would quite confound him to bring him to embrace 
another profession ; and he would never, while his eyes w^ere open, 
believe that his old master was a heretic ; and this might in the 
end ruin the poor fellow's principles, and so turn him to his first 
idolatiy. 


23 



3S^ THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

However, a sudden thought relieved me in this strait, and it was 
this ; 1 told him I could not say I was willing to part with Friday 
on any account whatever, though a work that to him was of more 
value than his life, ought to be to me of much less value than the 
keeping or parting with a servant ; but on tlie other Inind, I was 
persuade 1 that Friday would by no means consent to pait with me, 
and I could not force him to it without his consent, without manifest 
injustice, because I had promised I would never put him away, and 
he had promised and engaged to mo that he would never leave me, 
unless 1 put him away. 

lie seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no rational 
access to these poor people, seeing he did not understand one word 
of their language, nor they one word of his. To remove this diffi- 
culty, I told him Friday’s father had learned Spanish, which I found 
he also understood, and he should serve him for an interpreter ; so 
he was much better satisfied, and nothing could persuade him but 
he would stay to endeavour to convert them ; but rrovidence gave 
anotiver, and very happy, turn to all this. 

I come back now to the first part of his objections. When we 
came to the Englishmen, I sent for them all together, and after some 
account given them of what 1 had done for them, viz., what necessary 
things 1 had provided for them, and how they were distributed, which 
they were very sensible of, and very thankful for, I began to talk 
to them of the scandalous life they led, and gave them a lull account 
of the notice the clergyman had already taken of it, and arguing how 
unchristian and irreligious a life it was. 

They all gave me the answer that I expected, viz., that there was 
nobody to marry them ; and they thought as things stood with them, 
they were as legally married as if they liad been married by a parson, 
and with all the formalities in the world. 

I told them, that no doubt they were married in the sight of God, 
and were bound in conscience to keep them as their wives, but that 
the laws of meu being otherwise, they might pretend they were not 
mariiod, and so desert the poor women and children hereafter ; and 
that their wives being poor desolate women, friendless and money- 
less, would have no way to help themselves. I therefore told them, 
tliai unless I was assured of their honest intent, I could do nothing for 
them ; but w^ould take care that what I did should be for the women 
and their children with them. 

All this went on as I expected, and they told me, especially Will 
Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the rest, that they loved their 
waves as well as if they had been born in their own native country, 
and would not leave them upon any account whatever ; and they did 
verily believe tlieir wives were as virtuous and as modest, and did, to 
the utmost of their skill, as much for them, and for their children, as 
any women could possibly do, and they would not part with them on 
any account : and Will Atkins for his own particular added, if any 





THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 355 


rno.n would take him away, and offer to carry him home to England, 
and make him captain of the best man of war in the navy, he would 
not go with him, if he might not carry his wife and children with 
him ; and if there was a clergyman in the ship, he would be married 
to her now with all his heart. 

This was just as I would have it ; the priest was not with me at 
that moment, but was not far off: so to try him farther, I told him I 
had a clergyman with me, and if he was sincere, I would have him 
married the next morning, and bid him consider of it, and talk with 
the rest ; he said, as for Jiimself, he need not consider of it at all, for 
he was very rea<ly to do it, and was glad I had a minister with me, 
and he believed tln^y would be all willing also. I then told him that 
my friend the minister was a Frenchman, and could nob speak 
English, but that I would act the clerk between them : ho never so 
much as asked me whether he was Papist or Protestant, which was 
indeed wliat I was afraid of ; but I say, they never inquired about it. 
So we parted ; I went back to my clergyman, and Will Atkins went 
in to talk to his companions. 1 desired the French gentleman not to 
say anything to them, till the business was thorough ripe, and I told 
him what answer the men had given me. 

Before I went from their quarter, they all came to me, and told 
me they had been considering what I had said, that they were very 
glad to hear I had a clergyman in my company, and they were very 
willing to give me the satisfaction I desired, and to be formally 
married as soon as I pleased, for they were far from desiring to part 
with their wives ; so 1 appointed them to meet me the next morning, 
and that in the meantime they should let their wives know the mean- 
ing of the marriage law ; and that it was not only to prevent any 
scandal, but also to oblige them, that they should not forsake them, 
wnatever might happen. 

The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of the 
thing, and were very well satisfied with it, as, indeed, they had 
reason to be ; so they failed not to attend all together at my apart- 
ment the next morning, where I brought out my clergyman ; and 
though he had nob on a minister’s gown, after the manner of England, 
or the habit of a priest, after the manner of France, yet having a 
black vest something like a cassock, with a sash round it, lie did not 
look very unlike a minister ; and as for his language, I was his 
interpreter. 

But the seriousness of his behaviour to them, and the scruples he 
made of marrying the women, because they were not baptized, and 
professed Christians, gave them an exceeding reverence for his person ; 
and there was no need after that, to inquire whether he was a clergy- 
man or no. 

Indeed, I was afraid his scruple would have been carried so far, as 
that he would not have married them at all ; nay, notwithstanding 
all I was able to say to him, he resisted me, though modestly, yet 

23—2 




356 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


very steadily, and at last refused absolutely to marry them, unless ho 
bad first talked with the men, and the women too ; and though at 
first I was a little backward to it, yet at last I agreed to it with a 
good will, perceiving the sincerity of his design. 

When he came to them, he let them know that I had acquainted 
him with their circumstances, and with the present design : that ho 
was very willing to perform that part of his function, and nwi.rry 
them as I had desired ; but that before ho could do it, he must take 
the liberty to talk with them. He told them, that there was a 
difficulty with respect to the laws of Christian matrimony, which he 
was not fully satisfied about, viz., that of marrying one that is a pro- 
fessed Christian, to a savage, an idolater, and a heathen, one that is 
not baptized ; and yet that he did not see that there was time left 
for it to endeavour to persuade the women to be baptized, or to 
Xnofess the name of Christ, whom they had, he doubted, heard 
nothing of, and without which they could not be baptized. 

lie told them, ho doubted they were but indifferent Christians 
themselves ; that they had but little knowledge of God, or of Ilis 
ways ; and tlicrefore he couli not expect tliat they had said much 
to their wives on that head yet ; but that unless they w'ould promise 
him to use their endeavours with tlieir wives, to persuade them to 
become Christians, and would as well as they could instruct tliem iii 
the knowledge and belief of God that made them, and to worshi}) 
Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he could not marry them ; for he 
would have no hand in joining Christians with savages , nor was it 
consistent with the principles of the Christian religion ; and was 
indeed expressly forbidden in God's law. 

They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered it very faith- 
fully to them, from his mouth, as near his own w’^ords as I could, 
only sometimes adding something of my own to convince them how 
just it was, and how I was of his mind ; and I always very faithfully 
distinguished between what I said from myself, and what were the 
clergyman’s words. They told me it was very true, wdiat the 
gentleman had said, that they were but very indifferent Christians 
themselves, and tliat tliey had never talked to tlieir wives about 
religion. Lord, sir! says Will Atkins, how should we teach them 
religion? Why, wo know nothing ourselves; and besides, sir, said 
he, should we go to talk to them of God, and Jesi s Christ, and 
heaven and hell, 'twould be to make them laugh at us, and ask us. 
What we believe ourselves ? And if wo should tell them we believe 
all the things that we speak of to them, such as of good people 
going to heaven, and wicked people to the devil, they would ask us. 
Where we intend to go ourselves, that we believe all this, and are 
such wicked fellows, as we indeed are ? Why, sir, it is enough to 
give them a surfeit of religion at first hearing : folks must have some 
religion themselves, before they i)retend to teach other i^eople. Will 
Atkins, said I to him, though 1 am afraid what you say has too much 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 357 


truth in it, yet can you not tell your wife that she's in the wrong? 
Tliat there is a God and a religion better than her own ; that her 
gods are idols, that they can neither hear nor speak ; tliat there is a 
great Being that made all things, and that can destroy all that He 
had made ; that Ho I'cwards the good, and punishes the bad ; and 
tliat we are to be judged by Him at last for all we do here? You are 
not so ignorant, but even nature itself will teach you that all this is 
true, and 1 am satisfied you know it all to be true, and believe it 
yourself. 

That’s true, sir, said Atkins ; but with what face can I say any- 
thing to my wife of all this, when she will tell me immediately it 
cannot be line ? 

Not true 1 said I. What do you mean by that? Why, sir, said 
he, she will tell me it cannot be true, that this God I shall toll her of 
can be just, or can punish, or reward, since I am not punished, that 
have been such a wicked creature as she knows I have been, even to 
her, and to everybody else ; and that I should be suffered to live, 
that have been always acting so contrary to what I must tell her is 
good, and to what 1 ought to have done. 

Why, truly, Atkins, said I, 1 am afraid thou speakest too much 
truth ; and with that I lot the clergyman know what Atkins had 
said, for he was imj)atient to know. O I said the priest, tell him 
there is one thiiig will make him the best minister in the world to 
his wife, and that is, rei)entance ; for none teach repentaiice like 
true peiiitents : ho wants nothing but to rei)ent, and then ho will bo 
so much the bettor qualified to instruct his wife. Tie wall be then 
able to tell her, that there is not only a God, and that He is the just 
rewarder of good and evil, but that He is a merciful Being, and with 
infinite goodness and long-suffering forbears to punisli those that 
ollend, waiting to be gracious, and willing not the death of a sinner, 
but rather that he should return and live ; that oftentimes suffers 
wicked men to go on a longtime. That it is a clear evidence of God, 
and of a future state, that righteous men receive not their reward, 
or wicked men their punishment, till they come into another world ; 
and tins will lead him to teach his wdfe the doctrine of the resurrec- 
tion, and of the last judgment; let him but repent for himself, he 
will be an excellent preaclier of rej)entanco to his wife. 

T repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all the while, 
and who, wo could easily perceive, was more than ordinarily affected 
with it, when being eager, and hardly suffering me to make an end, 
I know all this, master, says he, and a great deal more ; but I bavon't 
the impudence to talk thus to my wife, when God, and my own 
conscience knows, and my wife vvill be an undeniable evidence 
against me, that I have lived as if I had never heard of a God, or 
future state, or anything about it ; and to talk of my repenting, alas 1 
and with that he fetched a deep sigh ; and I could sec that tears 
stood ill his eyes. 'Tis past all that with me. Past it I Atkins, said 



358 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


I, what dost thou luean by that ? I know well enough what I mean, 
Bays he ; I mean 'tis too late, and that is too true. 

I told my clergyman word for word wliat he said. The poor 
zealous priest (I must call him so ; for, be his opinion what it will, 
he had certainly a most singular affection for the good of other men's 
souls ; and it would be hard to think he had not the like for his own), 
I say, this zealous, affectionate man, could not refrain tears also. 
But, recovering himself, he said to me. Ask him but one question. Is 
he easy that it is too late, or is he troubled, and wishes it were not 
so ? I put the question fairly to Atkins, and he answered with a great 
deal of passion. How could any man be easy in a condition tliat 
certainly must end in eternal destruction ? That he was far from 
easy, but that, on the contrary, he believed it would one time or 
other ruin him. 

What do you mean by that ? said I. W'hy, he said he believed 
he should, one time or other, cut his throat to put an end to the 
terror of it. 

The clergyman shook his head with a great concern in his face, 
when I told him all this. But turning quick to me upon it, says he, 
If that be his case, you may assure him it is not too late ; Christ 
will give him repentance. But pray, says he, explain this to him, 
that as no man is saved but by Christ and the merit of His passion, 
procuring Divine mercy for him, how can it he too late for any man 
to receive mercy? Does he think he is able to sin beyond the 
power or reach of Divine mercy? Pray tell him, there may be a 
time when provoked mercy will no longer strive, and when God may 
refuse to hear, but that it is never too late for men to ask mercy ; and 
we that are Christ’s servants are commanded to preach mercy at all 
times, in the name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely repent ; 
BO that it is never too late to repent. 

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnestness ; but 
it seemed as if he turned off the discourse to the rest ; for he said to 
me ho would go and have some talk with his wife ; so he went out 
awhile, and we talked to the rest. I perceived they were all stupidly 
ignorant as to matters of religion, much as I was when I went 
rambling away from my father ; and yet that there were none of 
them backward to hear what had been said ; and all of them seriously 
promised that they would talk with their wives about it, and do their 
endeavour to persuade them to turn Christians. 

The clergyman smiled upon me, when I reported what answer 
they gave, but said nothing a good while ; but, at last, shaking his 
head. We that are Christ’s servants, says he, can go no further than 
to exhort and instruct; and when men comply, submit to the 
reproof, and promise what we ask, *tis all we can do ; wo are bound 
to accept their good words : but believe me, sir, said he, whatever 
you may have known of the life of that man you call Will Atkins, I 
believe he is the only sincere convert among them ; I take that man 



THE Ijr-E AND ADVENTURES OF ROnrN^'ON CRUSOE. 359 


to be a true penitent. I won’t despair of the rest ; but that man is 
apparently struck with the sense of his past life ; and I doubt not, 
but when he comes to talk religion to his wife, he will talk himself 
effectually into it; for attempting to teach others is sometimes the 
best way of teaching ourselves. I knew a man who, having nothing 
but a summary notion of religion himself, and being wicked and 
profligate to the last degree in his life, made a thorough reformation 
in himself by labouring to convert a Jew. If that poor Atkins 
begins but once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife, my life 
for it, he talks himself into a thorough convert, makes liiuiself a 
penitent : and who knows what may follow ? 

Upon this discourse however, and their promising, as above, 
to endeavour to persuade their wives to embrace Christianity, he 
married the other three couple ; but Will Atkins and his wife were 
not yet come in. After this, my clergyman, waiting awhile, was 
curious to know where Atkins was gone ; and, turning to mo, says he, 
I entreat you, sir, let us walk out of your labyrinth here, and look; 
I dare say shall find this poor man somewhere or other talking 
seriously to his wife, and teaching her already something of religion. 
I began to be of the same mind ; so wm w^ent out together, and I 
carried him a way which none knew but myself, and wdiero the trees 
were so thick sot, as that it was not easy to see through the thicket 
of leaves, and far harder to see in than to see out ; wdien, coming to 
the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins and his tawny savage wife 
sitting under the shade of a busli, very eager in discourse ; I stopped 
short till my clergyman came up to me ; and then having sliowed 
him wdiere they were, we stood and looked very steadily at them a 
good while. 

We observed him very earnest with lier, pointing up to the sun, 
and to every quarter of the heavens, then down to the earth, then 
out to the sea, then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the 
trees. Now, says my clergyman, you see my words are made good, 
the man preaches to her ; mark him now, he is telling her that our 
God has made him, and her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the 
woods, the trees, etc. I believe he is, said I ; immediately wc 
perceived Will Atkins start up upon his feet, fall down on bis 
knees, and lift up both his hands. We suppose he said something, 
but we could not hear him, it was too far for that ; he did not con- 
tinue kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down again by his 
wife, and talks to her again. We perceived then the woman very 
attentive, but whether she said anything or no wo could not tell ; 
while the poor fellow was upon his knees, I could see the tears run 
plentifully down my clergyman’s checks, and I could hardly forbear 
myself ; but it was a great affliction to us both that we were not near 
enough to hear anything that passed between them. 

Well, however, we could come no nearer for fear of disturbing 
them, so wo resolved to see an end of this piece of still conversation, 



36 o the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


and it spoke loud enough to us without the help of voice. He sat 
^down again, as I have said, close by her, and talked again earnestly 
.to her, and two or three times we could see him embrace her most 
passionately ; another time we saw him take out his handkerchief 
and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her again with a kind of transport 
very unusual ; and after several of these things we see him, on a 
sudden, jump up again and lend her his hand to help her up, when 
immediately, leading her by the hand a step or two, they both 
kneeled down together, and continued so about two minutes. 

My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, St. Paul, 
St. Paul ! behold he prayeth ! I was afraid Atkins would hear him, 
therefore I entreated him to withhold himself awhile, that we might 
see an end of the scene, which to me, I must confess, was the most 
affecting, and yet the most agreeable that ever I saw in my life. 
Well, he strove with himself and contained himself for awhile, but 
was in sucJi raptures of joy, to think that the poor heathen woman 
was become a Christian, that he was not able to contain himself ; 
he wept several times, then throwing up his hands and crossing his 
breast, said over several things ejaculatory and by way of giving 
God thanks for so miraculous a testimony of the success of our 
endeavours ; some he spoke softly, and I could not well hear, 
others audibly, some in Latin, some in French ; then two or three 
times the tears of joy would interrupt him, that he could not speak 
at all. Eut I begged that he would compose himself, and let us more 
narrowly and fully observe what was before us, which he did for a 
time, and the scene was not ended there yet ; for after the poor 
man and his wife were risen again from their knees, we observed he 
stood talking still eagerly to her ; and we observed by her motion, 
that she was greatly affected with what he said, by her frequent lifting 
up her hands, laying her hand to her breast, and such other postures 
as usually express the greatest seriousness and attention. This 
continued about half a quarter of an hour, and then they walked 
away too ; so we could see no more of them in that situation. 

I took this interval to talk with my clergyman. And first, I told 
him I was glad to see the particulars we had both been witnesses 
to ; that though I was hard enough of belief in such cases, yet that 
I began to think it was all very sincere here, both in the man and 
his wife, however ignorant they might both be ; and I hoped such a 
beginning would have a yet more happy end ; and who knows, said I, 
but these two may in time, by instruction and example, work upon 
some of the others ? Some of them ! said he, turning quick upon 
me, ay, upon all of them ; depend upon it, if those two savages, for 
he has been but little better, as you relate it, should embrace Jesus 
Christ, they will never leave till they work upon all the rest ; for true 
religion is naturally communicative, and he that is once made a 
Christian will never leave a pagan behind him, if he can help it. I 
owned it was a most Christian principle to think so, and a testimony 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 361 


of a true zeal, as well as a generous heart in him. But, my friend, 
said I, will you give me leave to start one difficulty here ? 1 cannot 
tell how to object the least thing against that affectionate concern 
which you show for the turning the poor people from their paganism 
to the Christian religion. But how does this comfort you while 
these people are in your account out of the pale of the Catholic 
Church, without which you believe there is no salvation ; so that 
you esteem these but heretics, and for other reasons as effectually 
lost as the pagans themselves ? 

To this he answered with abundance of candour and Christian 
charity thus : Sir, I am a Catholic of tlie Eoman Cliurch, and a 
priest of the Order of St. Benedict, and I embrace all the princi];)les 
of the Eoman faith. But yet if you will believe me, and that I do not 
speak in compliment to you, or in respect to my circumstances and 
your civilities ; I say, nevertheless, I do not look upon you, who call 
yourselves reformed, without some charity. I dare not say, though 
I know it is our opinion in general ; I say, I dare not say that you 
cannot be saved. I will by no means limit the mercy of Christ so 
far as to think that He cannot receive you into the bosom of His 
Church in a manner to us un perceivable, and which it is impossible 
for us to know, and I hope you have the same charity for us. I 
pray daily for your being restored to Christ's Church, by whatsoever 
methods He, who is all-wise, is pleased to direct. In the mean- 
time, sure you will allow it to consist with me, as a Eoman, to dis- 
tinguish far between a Protestant and a pagan ; between one that 
calls on Jesus Christ, though in a way which I do not think is ac- 
cording to the true faith, and a savage, a barbarian, that knows no 
God, no Christ, no Eedeemer ; and if you are not within the pale of 
the Catholic Church, we hope you are nearer being restored to it 
than those that know nothing of God or His Church. And I rejoice, 
therefore, when I see this poor man, who you say has been a profli- 
gate, and almost a murderer, kneel down and pray to Oesus Christ, 
as wo suppose he did, though not fully enlightened ; believing that 
God, from whom every such work proceeds, will sensibly touch his 
heart, and bring him to the further knowledge of that truth in His 
own time ; and if God shall influence this poor man to convert and 
instruct the ignorant savage, his wife, I can never believe that he 
shall be cast away himself ; and have I not reason then to rejoice, 
the nearer any are brought to the knowledge of Christ, though they 
may not be brought quite homo into the bosom of the Catholic 
Church, just at the time when I may desire it? leaving it to the 
goodness of Christ to perfect His work in His own time and His 
own way. Certainly I would rejoice if all the savages in America 
wore brought like this poor woman to pray to God, though they were 
to be all Protestants at first, rather than they should continue pagans 
and heathens ; firmly believing that He that had bestowed the first 
light to them would further illuminate them with a beam of His 



362 THE LIFE A VD ADVENTURES OF ROBrNSO V CRUSOE. 


heavenly grace, and bring them into the pale of His Church when 
He should see good. 

I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this truly pious 
papist, as much as I was oppressed by the power of his reasoning ; 
and it presently occurre 1 to my thoughts that if such a temper was 
universal, we might bo all Catholic Christians, whatever C lurch or 
particular profession we joined to or joined in ; that a spirit of 
charity would soon work us all up into right principles ; and in a 
word, as he thought that the like charity would make us all Catholics, 
so I told him I believed, had all the members of his Church the like 
moderation, they would soon be all Protestants. And there we left 
that part, for we never disputed at all. 

However, I talked to him another way, and taking him by the 
hand. My friend, says I, I wish all the clergy of the Roman Church 
were blest with such moderation, and had an equal share of your 
charity. I am entirely of your opinion ; but I must tell you, that if 
you should i)reach such doctrine in Spain or Italy, they would put 
you into the Inquisition. 

It may be so, said he, I know not what they might do in Spain or 
Italy ; but I will not say they would bo the better Christians for that 
severity, for 1 am sure there is no heresy in too much charity. 

Well, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our business there 
was over ; so ’we went back our own way ; and when we came back, 
we found them waiting to be called in ; observing this, I asked my 
clergyman if we should discover to him that we had seen him under 
the bush, or no ; and it was his opinion we should not ; but that we 
should talk to him first, and hoar what he would say to us. So we 
called him in alone, nobody being in the place but ourselves ; and I 
began with him thus : 

Will Atkins, said I, prithee what education had you? What was 
your father ? 

W. A. A better man than ever I shall be. Sir, my father was a 
clergyman. 

R. C. What education did he give you? 

W. A. lie would have taught me well, sir; but I despised all 
education, instruction or correction. 

R. C. It’s true, Solomon says, he that depises reproof is brutish. 

W. A. Ay, sir, I was brutish indeed, I murdered my father ; for 
God’s sake, sir, talk no more about that, sir ; I murdered my poor 
father. 

Pr. Ila I a murderer !* 

* Here the priest started (for I interpreted every word as he 
spoke it) and looked pale. It seems he believed that Will 
had really killed his own father. 

R. C. No, no, sir, I do not understand him so. Will Atkins, explain 
yourself ; you did not kill your father, did you, with your own hands ? 



THE LIFE AXD ADVENTURES OF ROD INS W CRUSOE. 363 

W. A. No, sir, I did not cut his throat, but I cut tlie thread of all 
his comforts, and shortened his days ; I broke his heart by the most 
ungrateful, unnatural return for the most tender aftcctionate treat- 
ment that ever father gave, or child could receive. 

B. C. Well, I did not ask you about your father to extort this 
confession ; I pray God give you repentance for it, and forgive 3mu 
that, and all your other sins ; but I asked ^’^ou, because I see, that 
though you have not much learning, yet you are not so ignorant as 
some are in things that are good ; that you have known more of 
religion a great deal than you h ive practised. 

W. A. Though you, Mr, did not extort the confession that I make 
about my father, conscience do<‘s ; and whenever we come to look 
back upon our lives, the sins against our indulgent parents are cer- 
tainly the first that touch ns ; the wounds they make lie the deepest, 
and the weight they leave will lie heaviest upon the mind, of all the 
sins we can commit. 

B. C. You talk too feelingly and sensibly for rue, Atkins; I cannot 
bear it. 

W. A. You bear it, master ! I dare say you know nothing of it. 

B. C. Yes, Atkins, every shore, every hill, nay, I may say, every 
tree in this island is witness to the ang lish of my soul, for my in- 
gratitude and base usage of a good tender father ; a father much like 
yours, by your description ; and I murdered my father as well as 
you. Will Atkins ; but I think, for all that, my repentance is short of 
yours too* by a great deal. 

* I would have said more, if I couVl have restrained iny 
passions ; but I thought this poor man’s repentance was so 
much sincerer than mine, that I was going to leave off the 
discourse and retire, for I was surprised with what ho said ; 
and thought, that instead of my going about to teach bxnd 
instruct him, the man was made a teacher and instructor 
to me, in a most surprising and unexpected manner. 

I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly affected 
with it, and said to me. Did I not say, sir, that when this man was 
converted, he w^oiild preach to us all? I tell you, sir, if this one 
man be made a true penitent, here will be no need of me ; he will 
make Cl ristians of all in the island. But having a little composed 
myself, I renowned my discourse with Will Atkins. 

But, Will, said I, how comes the sense of this matter to touch 
you just now ? 

W. A. Sir, you have set me about a work that has struck a dart 
through my very soul; I have been talking about God and religion 
to my wife, in order, as you directed me, to make a Christian of her, 
and she has preached such a sermon to me, as I shall never forget 
while I live. 

B. C. No, no, it is not your wife has preached to you ; but when 



364 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

you were moving religious arguments to her, conscience has flung 
them back upon you. 

W. A. Ay, sir, with such a force as is not to be resisted. 

E. C. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between you and your 
wife, for I know something of it already. 

W. A, Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account of it ; I am 
too full to hold it, and yet have no tongue to express ; but let her 
have said what she will, and though I cannot give you an account of 
it, this I can tell you of it, that I resolve to amend and reform my 
life. 

E. C. But tell us some of it. How did you begin. Will? For this 
has been an extraordinary case, that's certain. She has preached a 
sermon, indeed, if she has wrought this upon you. 

W. A. Why, I first told her the nature of our laws about marriage, 
and what the reasons were that men and women were obliged to 
enter into such compacts, as it was neither in the power ot one or 
other to break ; that otherwise, order and justice could not be main- 
tained, and men would run from their wives and abandon their 
children, mix confusedly with one another, and neither families be 
kept entire, or inheritances be settled by legal descent. 

E. G. You talk like a civilian, Will; could you make her under- 
stand what you meant by inheritance and families ? They know no 
such thing among the savages, but marry anyhow, without regard 
to relation, consanguinity, or family. 

W. A. I believe, sir, you are misinformed, and my wife assures me 
of the contrary, and that tliey abhor it ; perhaps, for any farther 
relations they may not be so exact as we are. 

E. C. Well, what did she say to what you told her? 

W. A. She said she liked it very well, and it was much better 
than in her country. 

E. 0. But did you tell her what marriage was ? 

W. A. Ay, ay, there began all our dialogue. I asked her if she 
would be married to me our way ? She asked ]ne what way that 
was? I told her marriage was appointed by God ; and here we had 
a strange talk together, indeed, as over man and wife had I believe. 

N.B. This dialogue between W. Atkins and his wife, as I took 
it down in v/riting, just after he told it me, was as follows : 

Wife. Appointed by your Godl Why, have you a God in your 
country ? 

W. A. Yes, my dear, God is in every country. 

W^ife. No you God in my country ; my country have the great old 
Benarauckee God. 

W. A. Child, I am very unfit to show you who God is ; God is in 
heaven, and made the heaven and the earth, the sea, and all that 
in them is. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 365 


Wife. No makce clc earth ; no, you God make all earth, uo makee 
my country.* 

* W. A. laughed a little at her expression of God not making 

her country. 

Wife. No laugh; why laugh me ? This no thing to laugh.* 

* He was justly reproved by his wife, for she was more serious 

than he at first. 

W. A. Tliat's true indeed, I will not laugh any more, my dear. 

Wife. Why you say, you God make all ? 

W. A. Yes, child, our God made the whole world, and you, aiid 
I, and all things ; for lie is the only true God, there is no God but 
Him, Ho lives for ever in heaven. 

Wife. Why you no tell me long ago ? 

W. A. That’s true indeed, but I have not only forgotten to acquaint 
thee with anything before, but have lived without God in the world 
myself. 

Wife. What, have you de great God in you country, you no know 
Him? No say O to Him? No do good tiling for Him? That no 
possible I 

W. A. It is too true ; though for all that, wo live as if there was 
no God in heaven, or tliat He had no power on earth. 

Wife. But why God let you do so ? Why He no makce you good 
live ? 

W. A. It is all our own fault. 

Wife. But you say me, He is great, much great, have mucli great 
power ; can makee kill, when He will ; why Ho no makee kill when 
you no serve Him ? No say O to Him? No be good mans ? 

W. A. That is true ; He might strike me dead, and I ought to 
expect it, for I have been a wicked wretch, that is true ; but God is 
merciful, and docs not deal with us as we deserve. 

Wife. But then, do not tell God tankee for that too? 

W. A. No, indeed, I have not thanked God for His mercy, any 
more than I have feared God for His power. 

Wife. Then you God no God; me no tink, believe, lie bo such 
one great much power, strong ; no makee kill you though you makee 
Him much angry. 

W. A. What I Will my wicked life hinder you from believing in 
God ? What a dreadful creature am I ; and what a sad truth is 
it, that the horrid lives of Christians hinder the conversions of 
heathens ! 

Wife. How me tink you have great much God* up there, and yet 
no do well, no do good thing ? Can He tell ? Sure He no tell what 
you do ? 


* She points up to heaven. 



366 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURED OF RO HINSON CRUSOE, 


W. A. Yes, yes, He knows and sees all things ; He hears ns speak, 
sees what we do, knows what we think, though wo do nob speak. 

Wife. What ! He no hear you swear? 

W. A. Yes, yes, He hears it all. 

Wife. Where be then the muchee great power strong ? 

W. A. He is merciful, that’s all we can say for it ; and this prove.s 
Him to be the true God ; lie is God and not man ; and therefore we 
are not consumed.* 

* Hei-e Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror, to 
think how he could tell his wife so clearly that God sees, 
and hears, and knows the secret thoughts of the heart, and 
all that we do ; and yet that he had dared to do all the vile 
things he had done. 

Wife. Merciful ! what you call that ? 

W. A. He is oar Father and Maker, and He pities and spares us. 

Wife. 8o then He never makeo kill, never angry when you do 
wicked ; tlien He no good Himself, or no gieat able. 

W. A. Yes, yes, my dear. He is infinitely good, and infinitely great, 
and able to punish too; and sometimes to show His justice and 
vengeance, He lets fly His anger to destroy sinners, and make 
examples ; many are cut off m their sins. 

Wife. But no make kill you yet, then He tell you may bo that He 
lu- make you kill, so you make de bargain with Him, you do bad 
thing, He no be angj-y at you, when He be angry at other mans. 

W. A. No indeed, my sins are all presumptions upon His good- 
ness ; ami He would be infinitely just if He destroyed me as He has 
done other men. 

Wife. W^ell, and yet no kill, no makeo you dead I what you say to 
Pliin for that, you no tell Him taiikee for all that too? 

W. A. ] am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that’s true. 

Wife. Why? He no makee you much good better; you say He 
makee you. 

W . A. He made me as He made all the world ; ’tis I have deformed 
myself, and jibused His goodness. 

Wife. I wisli you makee God kuow me ; I no makee Him an^ry, I 
no do bad wicked thing. ^ 

Here Will Atkins said his heart sunk within him, to hear a 
poor untaught creature desire to be taught to know God, 
and he such a wicked vrretch, that he could not say one 
word to her about God, but what the reproach of his own 
carriage would make most irrational to her to believe ; nay, 
that already she had told him, that she could not believe 
in God, because he that w^as so wicked was not destroyed. 

W. A. My dear, you mean, you wish I could teach you to know 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRU<OE. 367 


God, not God to know you ; for He knows you already, and every 
thought in your heart. 

Wife. Why then He knows wdiat T say to you now ? Ho know me 
wish to know Him ; how shall me know who makce me ? 

W. A. Poor creature. Ho must teach thee, I cannot teach thee ; 
I’ll pray to Him to teach thee to know Him, and to forgive me that I 
am unworthy to teach thee. 

The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring him to 
make her know God, and her wishing to know Him, that, 
he said, he fell down on his knees belore her, and prayed to 
God to enlighten her mind with the saving knowledge of 
Jesus Christ, and to pardon his sins, and accept of his being 
tlie unworthy instrument of instructing her in the jirinciples 
of religion ; after which he sat down by her again, and 
their dialogue went on. N.13. This was the time when w’© 
saw him kneel down, and lift up his hands. 

Wife. What you put down tlio knee for? What you hold up the 
hand for ? What you say ? Who you speak to? What is all that? 

W. A. My dear, I bow my knees in token of my submission to 
Him that made me ; I said 0 to Him, as you call it, and as you say 
your old men do to their idol Benamuckee ; that is, I prayed to 
Him. 

Wife. What you say O to Him for? 

W. A. I prayed to Him to open your eyes, and your understanding, 
that you may know Him, and be accepted by Him. 

Wife. Can He do that too? 

W. A. Yes, He can ; Ho can do all things. 

Wife. But now lie hear what you say? 

W. A. Yes, He has bid us pray to Him, and promised to hear us. 

Wife. Bid you pray? When He bid you? How He bid you? 
What ! you hear Him speak? 

W. A. No ; we do not hear Him speak, but He has revealed Him- 
self many ways to us. 

Here he was at a great loss to make her understand that God 
lias revealed Himself to us by His Woid, and what His 
Word was ; but at last he told it her thus ; 

W. A. God has spoken to some good men in former days, even 
from heaven, by plain words ; and God has inspired good men by 
His Spirit ; and they have written all His laws down in a book. 

Wife. Me no understand that ; where is book ? 

W. A. Alas, my poor creature, I have not tliis book ; but I hope 
I shall one time or other get it for you, and help you to read it. 

Here he embraced her with great affection, but with 
inexpressible grief that he had not a Bible. 



368 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


Wife. But how you makee me know that God teachee them to 
write that book ? 

W A. By the same rule that we know Him to bo God. 

Wife. What rule, what way you know Him ? 

W. A, Because He teaches and commands nothing but what is 
good, righteous, and holy : and tends to make us perfectly good, as 
well as perfectly happy ; and because He forbids, and commands us 
to avoid, all that is wicked, that is evil in itself, or evil in its con- 
sequences. 

Wife. That me would understand, that me fain see ; if He teachee 
all good thing, forbid all wicked thing, He reward all good thing, 
punish all wicked thing, He make all thing. He give all thing ; He 
hear me when I say O to Him, as you go do just now ; He makee me 
good, if I wish be good ; He spare me, no makee kill mo, when I no 
be good ; all this you say He do, yet He be great God ; me take, 
think, believe Hun be great God ; me say O to Him too with you, my 
dear. 

Here the poor man could forbear no longer ; but raising her up, 
made her kneel by him, and he prayed to God aloud to instruct her 
in the kuowhidge of Himself by His Spirit, and that by some good 
providence, if possible, she might some time or other come to have a 
Bible, that slie might read the Word of God, and be taught by it to 
know Him. 

This was the time tliat we saw him lift her up by the hand, and 
saw him kneel clown by her, as above. 

They had several other discourses it seems after tin’s, too long to 
set down here ; and particularly she made him promise, that since he 
confessed his own life had been a wicked abominable course of 
provocation against God, that he would reform it, and not make God 
angry any more, lest He should make him dead, as she called it, and 
then she should be left alone, and never be taught to know this God 
better ; and lest he should be miserable, as ho had told her wicked 
men should be after death. 

This was a strange account, and very affecting to us both, but 
particularly to the young clergyman ; he was indeed wonderfully sur- 
prised witli it, but under the greatest affliction imaginable that he 
could not talk to lier, that he could not speak English to make her 
understand him ; and as she spoke but very broken Euglisli he could 
not understand her; however, he turned himself to me, and told me 
that he believed there must be more to do with this woman than to 
marry her. I did not understand him at first, but at length he ex- 
plained himself, viz., that she ought to bo baptized. 

I agreed with him in that part readily, and was for going about it 
presently. No, no, hold sir, said he ; though I would have her be 
bajitized by all means, yet I must observe that Will Atkijis, her 
husband, has indeed brought her in a wonderful manner to be willing 
to embrace a religious life, and has given her just ideas of the being 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 369 


of a God, of Ilis power, justice, mercy ; yet I desire to know of him 
if ho had said anything to her of Jesus Christ, and of the salvation 
of sinners, of the nature of faith in Him, and redemption by Him, 
of the Holy Spirit, the Eesurrection, the last Judgment, and a future 
state. 

I called Will Atkins again, and asked him ; but the poor fellow 
fell immediately into tears, and told us ho had said something to her 
of all those things, but that he was himself so wicked a creature, and 
his own conscience so reproached him witli his horrid, ungodly life, 
that he trembled at the apprehensions that her knowledge of him 
should lessen the attention she should give to those things, and 
make her rather contemn religion than receive it. But he was as- 
sured, he said, that her mind was so disposed to receive due impres- 
sions of all those things, that if T would but discourse with her she 
would make it appear to my satisfaction that my labour would not 
be lost upon her. 

Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter be- 
tween my religious priest and the woman, I entreated him to begin 
with her ; but sure such a sermon was never preached by a Popish 
priest in these latter ages of the world ; and, as I told him, I thought 
he had all the zeal, all the knowledge, all the sincerity of a Christian, 
without tlie error of a Koman Catholic ; and that I took him to be 
such a clergyman as the Boman bishops were befoi'e the Church of 
Borne assumed sovereignty over the conscience of men. 

In a word, he brought the poor woman to embrace the knowledge 
of Christ, and of redemption by Him, not with w^onder and astonish- 
ment only, as she did the first notions of a God, but with joy and 
faith, with an affection and a surprising degree of understanding 
scarce to be imagined, much less to be expressed ; and at her own 
request she w^as baptized. 

When he was preparing to baptize her, I entreated him that he 
would perform that office with some caution, that the man might 
not perceive he was of the Boman Church, if possible, because of 
other ill consequences which might attend a difference among us in 
that very religion which we were instructing the other in. He told 
me that as he had no consecrated chapel, no proper things for the 
office, I should see he would do it in a manner that I should not 
know by it that he was a Boman Catholic myself if I had not known 
it before. And so he did ; for saying only some words over to him- 
self in Latin, which I could not understand, he poured a whole 
dishful of water upon the woman’s head, pronouncing in French, 
very loud, Mary, which was the name her husband desired me to 
give her, for I was her godfather, I baptize thee in the name of the 
Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost ; so that none could 
know anything by it, what religion he was of. He gave the Bene- 
diction afterwards in Latin ; but either Will Atkins did not know 
but it was in French, or else did not take notice of it at that time, 

24 




370 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

As soon as this was over we married them ; and after the marriage 
was over he turned himself to Will Atkins, and in a very affectionate 
manner exhorted him, not only to persevere in that good disposition 
he was in, but to support the convictions that were upon him by a 
resolution to reform his life ; told him it was in vain to say he re- 
pented, if he did not forsake his crimes ; represented to him how 
God had honoured him with being the instrument of bringing his 
wife to the knowledge of the Christian religion, and that he should 
be careful he did not dishonour the grace of God, and that if he did 
he would see the heathen a better Christian than himself, the savage 
converted, and the instrument cast away. 

He said a great many good things to them both, and then recom- 
mending them in a few words to God’s goodness, gave them the 
Benediction again, I repeating everything to them in English, and 
thus ended the ceremony. I think it was the most pleasant, agree- 
able day to me that ever I passed in my whole life. 

But my clergyman had not done yet ; his thoughts hung con- 
tinually upon the conversion of the seven and thirty savages, and 
fain he would have stayed upon the island to have undertaken it ; 
but I convinced him, first, that his undertaking was impractic* 
able in itself; and secondly, that perhaps I would put it into a 
way of being done in his absence to his satisfaction ; of which, by 
and by. 

Having thus brought the affair of the island to a narrow compass, 
I was preparing to go on board the ship, when the young man whom 
I had taken out of the famished ship’s company came to me, and told 
me, he understood I had a clergyman with me, and that I had caused 
the Englishmen to be married to the savages, whom they called 
wives ; that he had a match too, which he desired might be finished 
before I wont, between two Christians, wdiich he hoped would not be 
disagreeable to me. 

I knew this must be the young woman who was his mother’s 
servant, for there was no other Christian woman on the island ; so I 
began to persuade him not to do anything of that kind rashly, or 
because he found himself in this solitary circumstance ; I represented 
to him that he had some considerable substance in the world, and 
good friends, as I understood by himself, and by his maid also ; 
that the maid was not only poor, and a servant, but was unequal to 
him, she being six or seven and twenty years old, and he not above 
seventeen or eighteen ; that he might very probably, with my 
assistance, make a remove from this wilderness, and come into his 
own country again, and that then it would be a thousand to one but 
he would repent his choice ; and the dilslike of that circumstance 
might be disadvantageous to both : I was going to say more, but he 
interrupted me, smiling, and told me, with a great deal of modesty, 
that I mistook in my guesses, that he had nothing of that kind in 
his thoughts, his present circumstance being melanoholy and dis- 



the life and adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 371 

consolate enough \ and he was very glad to hear that I had thoughts 
of putting them in a way to see their country again, and nothing 
should have put him upon staying there, but that the voyage I was 
going was so exceeding long and hazardous, and would carry him 
quite out of the reach of ail his friends ; that he had nothing to 
desire of me, but that I would settle him in some little property in 
the island where he was, give him a servant or two and some few 
necessaries, and he would settle himself here like a planter, waiting 
the good time, when, if ever I returned to Elngland, I would redeem 
him, and hoped I would not be unmindful of him when I came into 
^England \ that he would give me some letters to his friends in 
London, to let them know how good I had been to him, and in what 
p^rt of the world, and what circumstance I had left him in ; that 
he promised me, that whenever I redeemed him, the plantation, and 
all the improvement he had made upon it, let the value be what it 
would, should be wholly mine. 

His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering his youth, and 
was the more agreeable to me, because he told me positively the match 
was not for himself ; I gave him all possible assurances, that if I lived 
to come safe to England, I would deliver his letters and do his busi- 
ness effectually, and that he might depend I w^ould never forget the 
circumstances I had left them in ; but still I was impatient to know 
who was the person to be married, upon which he told me it was 
my Jack of all Trades, and his maid Susan. 

1 vyas most agreeably surprised, when he named the match, for 
indeed I thought it very suitable ; the character of that man I have 
given already ; and as for the maid, she was a verv honest, modest, 
sober and religious young woman, had a very good share of sense 
was agreeable enough in her person, spoke very handsomely and to 
the purpose, always with decency and good manners, and not back- 
ward to speak when anything required it, or impertinently forward 
to speak when it was not her business ; very handy and housewifely 
in anything that was before her; an excellent manager, and fit 
indeed to have been governess to the whole island ; she knew very 
well how to behave to all kind of folks she had about her, and to 
better, if she had found any there. 

The match being proposed in this manner, we married them the 
same day, and as I was father at the altar, as I may say, and gave 
er away, so I gave her a portion; for I appointed her and her 
nusband a handsome large space of ground for their plantation ; 
ana indeed this match and the proposal the young gentleman made 
o give him a small property in the island, put me upon parcelling 
It out amongst them, that they might not quarrel afterwards about 
their situation. 

• sharing out of the land to them I left to Will Atkins, who 
indeed was now grown a most sober, grave, managing fellow, per- 
lectly reformed, exceeding pious and religious, and as far as I may be 



372 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

allowed to speak positively in such a case, I verily believe, was a true 
sincere penitent. 

He divided things so justly, and so much to every one's satisfaction, 
that they only desired one general writing under my hand for the 
whole, which I caused to be drawn up and signed and sealed to 
them, setting out the bounds and situation of every man’s plantation, 
and testifying that I gave them thereby severally a right to the whole 
possession and inheritance of the respective plantations or farms, 
with their improvements to them and their heirs, reserving all the 
rest of the island as my own property, and a certain rent for every 
particular plantation after eleven years, if I, or any one from me, or 
in my name, came to demand it, producing an attested copy of the 
same writing. 

As to the government and laws among them, I told them I was 
not capable of giving them better rules than they were able to give 
themselves, only made them promise me to live in love and good 
neighbourhood with one another ; and so I prepared to leave them. 

One thing I must not omit, and this is, that being now settled in a 
kind of commonwealth among themselves, and having much business 
in hand, it was but odd to have seven and thirty Indians live in a 
nook of the island, independent, and indeed unemployed ; for except- 
ing the providing themselves food, which they had difficulty enough 
in too, sometimes, they had no manner of business or property to 
manage; I proposed therefore to the governor Spaniard, that he 
should go to them with Friday’s father, and propose to them to re- 
move, and either plant for themselves, or take them into their several 
families as servants to be maintained for their labour, but without 
being absolute slaves, for I would not admit them to make them 
slaves by force by any means, because they had their liberty given 
them by capitulation, and as it were articles of surrender, which they 
ought not to break. 

They most willingly embraced the proposal, and came all very 
cheerfully along with him ; so we allotted them land, and planta- 
tions, which three or four accepted of, but all the rest chose to be 
employed as servants in the several families we had settled; and 
thus my colony was in a manner settled as follows. The Spaniards 
possessed my original habitation, which was the capital city, and 
extended their plantations all along the side of the brook, which 
made the creek that I have so often described, as far as my bower ; 
and as they increased their culture, it went always eastward ; the 
English lived in the north-east part, where W. Atkins, and his 
comrades began, and came on southward, and south-west, towards 
the back part of the Spaniards, and every plantation had a great 
addition of land to take in, if they found occasion, so that they need 
not jostle one another for want of room. 

All the east end of the island was left uninhabited, that if any of 
the savages should come on shore there, only for their usual customary 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 373 

barbarities, they might come and go, if they disturbed nobody, nobody 
would disturb them ; and no doubt but they were often ashore, and 
went away again, for I never heard that the planters were ever 
attacked or disturbed any more. 

It now came into my thoughts, that I had hinted to my friend the 
clergyman, that the work of converting the savages might perhaps 
be set on foot in his absence, to his satisfaction ; and I told him that 
now I thought it was put in a fair way ; for the savages being thus 
divided among the Christians, if they would but every one of them 
do their part with those which came under their hands, I hoped it 
might have a very good effect. 

He agreed presently in that, if, saad he, they will do their part ; 
but how, says he, shall we obtain that of them ? I told him, we 
would call them all together, and leave it in charge with them, or go 
to them one by one, which he thought best ; so we divided it ; he to 
speak to the Spaniards, who wore all Papists, and I to the English, 
who were all Protestants ; and we recommended it earnestly to them, 
and made them promise, that they never would make any distinction 
of Papist or Protestant, in their exhorting the savages to turn Chris- 
tians ; but teach them the general knowledge of the true God, and 
of their Saviour Jesus Clirist ; and they likewise promised us, that 
they would never have any differences or disputes one with another 
about religion. 

When I came to W. Atkins’s house, I may call it so, for such a 
house, or such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was not standing in 
the world again ; I say, when I came there, I found the young 
woman I have mentioned above, and Will Atkins’s wife, were 
become intimates; and this prudent religious young woman had 
perfected the work Will Atkins had begun ; and though it was not 
above four days after what I have related, yet the new baptized 
savage woman was made such a Christian, as I have seldom heard 
•of any like her in all my observation, or conversation, in the world. 

It came next into my mind in the morning before I went to them, 
that amongst all the needful things I had to leave with them, I had 
not left them a Bible, in which I showed myself less considering for 
them, than my good friend the widow was for me, when she sent me 
tlie cargo of an hundred pounds from Lisbon, where she packed up 
three Bibles and a Prayer-book. However, the good woman's charity 
had a greater extent than ever she imagined ; for they were reserved 
for the comfort and instruction of those, that made much better use 
•of them than I had done. 

I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to Will 
Atkins’s tent or house, and found the young woman, and Atkins’s 
baptized wife, had been discoursing of religion together ; for Will 
Atkins told it me, with a great deal of joy, I asked if they were 
together now, and he said, yes ; so I went into the house, and he 
’^'ith me, and we found them together very earnest in discourse ; O 



374 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


sir, says Will Atkins, when God has sinners to reconcile to Himself, 
and aliens to bring home. He never wants a messenger ; my wife has 
got a new instructor ; I knew I was unworthy, as I was uncapable 
of that work ; that young woman has been sent hither from Heaven ; 
she is enough to convert a whole island of savages; the young 
woman blushed, and rose up to go away, but I desired her to sit 
still ; I told her, she had a good work upon her hands, and I hoped 
God would bless her in it. 

We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had any book 
among them, though I did not ask; but I put my hand in my 

E ocket, and pulled out my Bible ; here, says I, to Atkins, I have 
rought you an assistant that perhaps you had not before ; the man 
was so confounded, that he was not able to speak for some time ; 
but recovering himself, he takes it with both his hands, and turning 
to his wife. Here, my dear, says he ; did not I tell you, our God, 
though He lives above, could hear what we said ? Here’s the book 
I prayed for, when you and I kneeled down under the bush ; now 
God has heard us, and sent it ; when he had said so, the man fell 
into such transports of a passionate joy, that between the joy of 
having it, and giving God thanks for it, the tears run down his face 
like a child that was crying. 

The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into a mistake 
that none of us were aware of ; for she firmly believed God had sent 
the book upon her husband’s petition ; it is true, that providentially 
it was so, and might be taken so in a consequent sense ; but I believed, 
it would have been no difficult matter at that time, to have persuaded 
the poor woman to have believed that an express messenger came 
from Heaven, on purpose to bring that individual book ; but it was 
too serious a matter, to suffer any delusion to take place ; so I turned 
to the young woman and told her we did not desire to impose upon 
the new convert, in her first, and more ignorant understanding of 
things ; and begged her to explain to her that God may be very 
properly said to answer our petitions, when in the course of His 
providence, such things are in a particular manner brought to pass, 
as we petitioned for ; but we do not expect returns from Heaven, in 
a miraculous and particular manner, and that it is our mercy that it 
is not so. 

This the young woman did afterwards effectually ; so that there 
was, I assure you, no priestcraft used here; and I should have 
thought it one of the most unjustifiable frauds in the world, to have 
had it so ; but the surprise of joy upon Will Atkins is really not to 
be expressed ; and there, we may be sure, there was no delusion. 
Sure, no man was ever more thazikful in the world for anything of 
its kind, than he was for this Bible ; nor, I believe, never any man 
was glad of a Bible from a better principle : and though he had been 
a most profligate creature, desperate, headstrong, outrageous, furious, 
and wicked to a great degree ; yet this man is a stanffing rule to us 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 375 


all, for the well instructing children, viz., that parents should never 
give over to teach and instruct, or ever despair of the success of their 
endeavours, let the children be ever so obstinate, refractory, or, to 
appearance, insensible of instruction ; for if ever God in His pro- 
vidence touches the consciences of such, the force of their education 
returns upon them, and the early instruction of parents is not lost ; 
though it may have been many years laid asleep ; but some time or 
other, they may find the benefit of it. 

Thus it was with this poor man ; however ignorant he was, or 
divested of religion and Christian knowledge, he found he had 
some to do with now, more ignorant than himself ; and that the least 
part of the instruction of his good father that could now come to his 
mind, was of use to him. 

Among the rest, it occurred to him, he said, how his father used to 
insist much upon the inexpressible value of the Bible ; the privilege 
and blessing of it to nations, families, and persons ; but he never 
entertained the least notion of the worth of it, till now ; when being 
to talk to heathens, savages, and barbarians, he wanted the help of 
the written oracle for his assistance. 

The young woman was very glad of it also for the present occa- 
sion, though she had one, and so had the youth on board our ship 
among their goods, which were not yet brought on shore ; and now 
having said so many things of this young woman, I cannot omit 
telling one story more of her, and myself, which has something in it 
very informing and remarkable. 

I have related, to what extremity the poor young woman was 
reduced ; how her mistress was starved to death, and did die on 
board that unhappy ship we met at sea ; and how the whole ship's 
company being reduced to the last extremity, the gentlewoman, and 
her son, and this maid, were first hardly used as to provisions ; and 
at last totally neglected and starved ; that is to say, brought to the 
last extremity of hunger. 

One day being discoursing with her upon the extremities they 
suffered, I asked her if she could describe by what she had felt, 
what it was to starve, and how it appeared ; she told me, she believed 
she could ; and she told her tale very distinctly thus : 

‘ First, sir,' said she, ‘ we had for some days fared exceeding hard, 
and suffered very great hunger ; but now at last, we were wholly 
without food of any kind, except sugar, and a little wine, and a 
little water. The first day, after I had received no food at all, I 
found myself towards evening, first empty and sickish at my stomach, 
and nearer night mightily inclined to yawning and sleepy ; I laid 
down on a couch in the great cabin to sleep, and slept about three 
hours, and awaked a little refreshed ; having taken a glass of "wine 
when I lay down ; after being about three hours awake, it being 
about five o'clock in the morning, I found myself empty and my 
stomach sickish, and laid down again, but could not sleep at all, 



376 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

bsiiig very faint, and ill j and tlius I continued all the second dayi 
with a strange variety, first hungry, then sick again, with retchings 
to vomit ; the second night being obliged to go to bed again, without 
any food, more than a draught of fair water ; and being asleep, I 
dreamed I was at Barbadoes, and that the market was mightily 
stocked with provisions ; that I bought some for my mistress, and 
went and dined very heartily. 

* I thought my stomach was as full after this as any would have 
been after, or at a good dinner; but when I waked, I was exceed- 
ingly sunk in my spirits, to find myself in the extremity of famine. 
The last glass of wine we had, I drank, and put sugar in it, because 
of its having some spirit to supply nourishment ; but there being no 
substance in the stomach for the digesting office to work upon, I 
found the only effect of the wine was, to raise disagreeable fumes' 
from the stomach, into the head ; and I lay, as they told me, stupid, 
and senseless, as one drunk, for some time. 

‘ The third day in the morning, after a night of strange and confused 
inconsistent dreams ; and rather dozing than sleeping, I waked, 
ravenous and furious with hunger ; and I question, had not my 
understanding returned and conquered it — I say, I question whether 
if I had been a mother, and had had a little child with me, its life 
would have been safe or not. 

* This lasted about three hours ; during which time I was twice 
raging mad as any creature in Bedlam, as my young master told me, 
and as ho can now inform you. 

* In one of these fits of lunacy or distraction, whether by the 
motion of the ship, or some slip of my foot, I know not, I fell down, 
and struck my face against the corner of a pallet bed in which my 
mistress lay ; and with the blow the blood gushed out of my nose ; 
and the cabin boy bringing me a little basin, 1 sat down and bled into 
it a great deal; and as the blood run from me, I came to myself ; 
and the violence of the flame or the fever, I was in, abated, and so 
did the ravenous part of the hunger. 

* After I had bled some time, I swooned, and they all believed 
I was dead ; but I came to myself soon after, and then had a most 
dreadful pain in my stomach, not to be described ; not like the colic, 
but a gnawing eager pain for food ; and towards night it went off 
with a kind of earnest wishing or longing for food. I took another 
draught of water with sugar in it, but my stomach loathed the 
sugar, and brought it all up again ; then I took a draught of water 
without sugar, and that stayed with me ; and I laid me down upon 
the bed, praying most heartily, that it would please God to take me 
away ; and composing my mind in hopes of it, I slumbered awhile, 
and then waking, thought myself dying, being light with vapours 
from an empty stomach ; I recommended my soul then to God, and 
earnestly wished that somebody would throw me into the sea. 

‘ All this while my mistress lay by me just as I thought expiring, 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 377 

but bore it with much more patience than I, and gave the last bit of 
bread she had left to her child/my young master, who would not have 
taken it, but she obliged him to eat it ; and I believe it saved his life. 

* Towards the morning I slept again, and first when I awaked I 
fell into a violent passion of crying, and after that had a second fit 
of violent hunger ; I got up ravenous and in a most dreadful con- 
dition ; had my mistress been dead, as much as I loved her, I am 
certain I should have eaten a piece of her flesh with as much relish 
and as unconcerned as ever I did the flesh of any creature appointed 
for food ; and once or twice I was going to bite my own arm. At 
last I saw the basin in which was tlie blood I had bled at my nose 
the day before ; I ran to it, and swallowed it with such haste and 
such a greedy appetite, as if I had wondered nobody had taken it 
before, and afraid it should be taken from me now. 

* Though after it was down, the thoughts of it filled me with 
horror, yet it checked the fit of hunger, and I drank a draught of 
fair water, and was composed and refreshed for some hours after it. 
This was the 4 th day, and thus I held it till towards night, when 
within the compass of three hours I had all these several circum- 
stances over again, one after another, viz., sick, sleepy, eagerly 
hungry, pain in the stomach, then ravenous again, then sick again, 
then lunatic, then crying, then ravenous again ; and so every quarter 
of an hour, and my strength wasted exceedingly. At night I laid 
me down, having no comfort, but in the hope that I should die 
before morning. 

‘ All this night I had no sleep, but the hunger was now turned 
into a disease, and I had a terrible colic and griping ; and in this 
condition I lay till morning, when I was surprised a little with the 
cries and lamentations of my young master, who called out to me 
that his mother was dead. I lifted myself up a little, for I had not 
strength to rise, but found she was not dead, though she was able to 
give very little signs of life. 

‘ I had then such convulsions in my stomach for want of some 
sustenance that I cannot describe, with such frequent throes and 
pangs of appetite that nothing but the tortures of death can imitate ; 
and in this condition I was when I heard the seamen above cry out 
A sail, a sail, and halloo and jump about as if they were distracted. 

‘ I was not able to get off from the bed, and my mistress much 
less ; and my young master was so sick that 1 thought he had been 
expiring ; so we could not open the cabin door, or get any account 
what it was that occasioned such a combustion, nor had we had any 
conversation with the ship’s company for two days, they having told 
us that they had not a mouthful of anything to eat in the ship, and 
they told us afterwards they thought we had been dead. 

‘ It was this dreadful condition we were in when you were sent to 
save our lives ; and how you found us, sir, you know as well as I, 
and better too.’ 



378 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

This was her own relation, and in such a distinct account of 
starving to death, as I confess I never met with, and was exceeding 
entertaining to me. I am rather apt to believe it to be a true 
account, because the youth gave me an account of a good part of it, 
though I must own not so distinct and so feelingly as his maid, and 
the rather because it seems his mother fed him at the price of her 
own life. But the poor maid, though her constitution being stronger 
than that of her mistress, who was in years, and a weakly woman 
too, she might struggle harder with it ; I say the poor maid might 
be supposed to feel the extremity something sooner than her mistress, 
who might be allowed to keep the last bit something longer than she 
parted with any to relieve the maid. No question, as the case is 
here related, if our ship, or some other, had not so providentially 
met them, a few days more would have ended all their lives, unless 
they had prevented it by eating one another ; and even that as their 
case stood would have served them but a little while, they being 500 
leagues from any land, or any possibility of relief, other than in the 
miraculous manner it happened. But this is by the way ; I return 
to my disposition of things among the people. 

And first, it is to be observed here, that for many reasons I did 
not think fit to let them know anything of the sloop I had framed, 
and which I thought of setting up among them ; for I found, at least 
at my first coming, such seeds of divisions among them, that I saw it 
plainly had I set up the sloop, and left it among them, they would 
upon every light disgust have separated, and gone away from one 
another, or perhaps have turned pirates, and so made the island a 
den of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober and religious people 
so as I intended it ; nor did I leave the two pieces of brass cannon 
that I had on board, or the two quarter-deck guns that my nephew 
took extraordinarily for the same reason. I thought it was enough 
to qualify them for a defensive war against any that should invade 
them ; but not to set them up for an offensive war, or to encourage 
them to go abroad to attack others, which in the end would only 
bring ruin and destruction upon themselves and all their undertaking. 
I reserved the sloop, therefore, and the guns, for their service another 
way, as I shall observe in its place. 

I have now done with the island. I left them all in good circum- 
stances, and in a flourishing condition, and went on board my ship 
again the 6th of May, having been five-and-twenty days among 
them ; and as they were all resolved to stay upon the island till I 
came to remove them, I promised to send some further relief from 
the Brazils, if I could possibly find an opportunity ; and particu- 
larly I promised to send them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and 
cows. For as to the two cows and calves which I brought from 
England, we had been obliged by the length of our voyage to kill 
them at sea, for want of hay to feed them. 

The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at parting, we set 





881 . 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 381 

sail, and arrived at the Bay of All-Saints in the Brazils in about 22 
days, meeting nothing remarkable in our passage, but this, that 
about three days after wo sailed, being becalmed, and the current 
setting strong to the B.N.E., running, as it were, into a bay or gulf 
on the land side, we were driven something out of our course, and 
once or twice our men cried land to the eastward ; but whether it 
was the continent or islands, we could not tell by any means. 

But the third day towards evening, the sea smooth, and the 
weather calm, we saw the sea, as it wore, covered towards the land 
with something very black, not being able to discover what it was, 
till after some time, our chief mate going up the main shrouds a 
little way, and looking at them with a perspective, cried out it was 
an army. I could not imagine what he meant by an army, and 
spoke a little hastily, calling the fellow a fool, or some such word. 
Nay, sir, says he, don’t be angry, for ’tis an army and a fleet too ; 
for I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them 
paddle along, and they are coming towards us too, apace. 

I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my nephew, the 
captain ; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in the island, 
and having never been in those seas before, that he could not tell 
what to think of it, but said two or three times we should all be 
devoured. I must confess, considering we were becahned, and the 
current set strong towards the shore, I liked it the worse. However, 
I bade him not be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor, as soon as 
we came so near to know that we must engage them. 

The weather continued calm, and they came on apace towards us ; 
so I gave order to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails. As for 
the savages, I told them they had nothing to fear but fire ; and 
therefore they should get their boats out, and fasten them, one close 
by the head, and the other by the stern, and man them both well, 
and wait the issue in that posture. This I did that the men in the 
boats might be ready with sheets and buckets to put out any fire 
these savages might endeavour to fix to the outside of the ship. 

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they came 
up with us ; but never was such a horrid sight seen by Christians. 
My mate was much mistaken in his calculation of their number, I 
mean of a thousand canoes ; the most we could make of them when 
they came up, being about a hundred and six -and- twenty ; and a 
great many of them too ; for some of them had sixteen or seventeen 
men in them, and some more, and the least six or seven. 

When they came nearer to us they seemed to be struck with 
wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which they had doubtless 
never seen before ; nor could they at first, as wo afterwards under- 
stood, know what to make of us. They came boldly up, however, 
very near to us, and seemed to go about to row round us ; but we 
called to our men in the boats, not to let them come too near them. 

This very order brought us to an engagement with them, without 




382 THE UFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

our designing it ; for five or six of their large canoes came so near 
our long-boat that our men beckoned with their hands to them to 
keep back, which they understood very well, and went back ; but at 
their retreat, about 50 arrows came on board us from those boats, 
and one of our men in the long-boat was very much wounded* 

However, I called to them not to fire by any means; but we 
handed down some deal boards into the boat, and the carpenter 
presently set up a kind of a fence, like waste boards, to cover them 
from the arrows of the savages, if they should shoot again. 

About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a body astern 
of us, and pretty near us, so near that we could easily discern what 
they were, though we could not tell their design. And I easily found 
they were some of my old friends, the same sort of savages that I 
had been used to engage with ; and in a little time more they rowed 
a little farther out to sea, till they came directly broadside with us, 
and then rowed down straight upon us, till they came so near, that 
they could hear us speak. Upon this I ordered all my men to keep 
close, lest they should shoot any more arrows, and made all our guns 
ready ; but being so near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go 
out upon the deck, and call out aloud to them in his language to 
know what they meant, which accordingly he did ; whether they 
understood him or not, that I knew not. But immediately Friday 
cried out they were going to shoot, and unhappily for him, poor 
fellow, they let fly about 300 of their arrows, and, to my inexpressible 
grief, killed poor Friday, no other man being in their sight. The 
poor fellow was shot with no less than three arrows, and about three 
more fell very near him ; such unlucky marksmen they were, 
j I was so enraged with the loss of my old servant, the companion 
'of all my sorrows and solitudes, that I immediately ordered five 
‘ guns to be loaded with small shot, and four with great, and gave 
them such a broadside, as they had never heard in their lives before, 
to be sure. 

They were not above half a cable length off when we fired ; and 
our gunners took their aim so well, that three or four of their canoes 
were overset, as we had reason to believe, by one shot only. 

When they shot at us directly with all the fury they were capable 
of, and especially as they had killed my poor Friday, who 1 so 
entirely loved and valued, and who indeed so well deserved it ; I not 
only had been justified before God and man, but would have been 
very glad, if I could, to have overset every canoe there, and drowned 
every one of them. 

I can neither tell, how many we killed, or how many we wounded 
at this broadside ; but sure such a fright and hurry never was seen 
among such a multitude ; there were 18 or 14 of their canoes split 
and overset in all, and the men all set a swimming : the rest frighted 
out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could, taking but little 
care to save those whose boats were split or spoiled vrith our shot. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 383 


So I suppose that they were many of them lost. And our men took 
up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour after they 
were all gone. 

Our small shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound a 
great many ; but, in short, we never knew anything how it went 
with them ; for they fled so fast, that in three hours or thereabouts, 
we could not see above three or four straggling canoes ; nor did we 
ever see the rest any more ; for a breeze of wind springing up the 
same evening, we weighed and set sail for the Brazils. 

We had a prisoner indeed ; but the creature was so sullen, that he 
would neither eat or speak ; and we aU fancied he would starve him- 
self to death. But I took a way to cure him ; for I made them take 
him and turn him into the long-boat, and make him believe they 
would toss him into the sea again, and so leave him where they found 
him, if he would not speak. Nor would that do ; but they really did 
throw him into the sea, and came away from him ; and then he 
followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called to them in his 
tongue, though they knew not one word of what he said. ITowever, 
at last they took him in again, and then he began to be more tract- 
able ; nor did I ever design they should drown him. 

We were now under sail again ; but I was the most disconsolate 
creature alive, for want of my man Friday, and would have been 
very glad to have gone back to the island, to have taken one of the 
rest from thence for my occasion, but it could not be ; so we went on. 
We had one prisoner, as I have said ; and 'twas a long while before 
we could make him understand anything. But, in time, our men 
taught him some English, and he began to be a little tractable ; after- 
wards we enquired what country he came from, but could made 
nothing of what he said ; for his speech was so odd, all gutturals, 
and spoke in the throat in such an hollow odd manner, that we could 
never form a word from him ; and we were all of opinion, that they 
might speak that language as well, if they were gagged, as otherwise. 
Nor could we perceive that they had any occasion, either for teeth, 
tongue, lips, or palate, but formed their words, just as a hunting-horn 
forms a tune with an open throat. He told us, however, some time 
after when we had taught him to speak a little English, that they 
were going with their kings to fight a great battle. When he said 
kings, we asked him how many kings ? He said, they were five 
nation, we could not make him understand the plural s, and that 
they all joined to go against two nation. We asked him. What made 
them come up to us? He said, To makee te great wonder look. 
Where it is to be observed, that all those natives, as also those of 
Africa, when they learn English, they always add two e's at the end 
of the words where we use one, and make the accent upon them, as 
msike^ tak^^, and the like ; and we could not break them of it ; nay, 
I could hardly make Friday leave it off, though at last he did. 

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last 



384 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

leave of him ; poor honest Friday ! We buried him with all the 
decency and solemnity possible, by putting him into a coffin and 
throwing him into the sea : and I caused them to fire eleven guns for 
him ; and so ended the life of the most grateful, faithful, honest, and 
most affectionate servant that ever man had. 

We wont now away with a fair wind for Brazil, and in about 
twelve days’ time we made land in the latitude of five degrees south 
of the line, being the north-easternmost land of all that part of 
America. We kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore four days, when 
we made Cape St. Augustine, and in three days came to an anchor 
off of the Bay of All Saints, the old place of my deliverance, from 
whence came both my good and evil fate. 

Never ship came to this part that had less business than I had ; 
and yet it was with great difficulty that we were admitted to hold the 
least correspondence on shore ; not my partner himself, who was 
alive, and made a great figure among them ; not my two merchants 
trustees, not the fame of my wonderful preservation in that island, 
could obtain me that favour ; but my partner, remembering that I 
had given 500 moidores to the prior of the monastery of the Augus- 
tincs, and 272 to the poor, went to the monastery, and obliged the 
prior that then was, to go to the governor, and get leave for me per- 
sonally, with the captain and one more besides eight seamen, to 
come on shore, and no more; and this upon condition absolutely 
capitulated for, that we should not offer to land any goods out of the 
ship, or to carry any person away without licence. 

They were so strict with us, as to landing any goods, that it was 
with extreme difficulty that I got on shore three bales of English 
goods, such as fine broadcloths, stuffs, and some linen which I had 
brought for a present to my partner. 

He was a very generous broad-hearted man, though like me, he 
came from little at first ; and though he knew not that I had the least 
design of giving him anything, he sent me on board a present of 
fresh provisions, wine, and sweetmeats, worth above 30 moidores, 
including some tobacco, and three or four fine medals in gold ; but 
I was even with him in my present, which, as I have said, consisted 
of fine broadcloths, English stuffs, lace, and fine Hollands ; also I 
delivered him about the value of 100 lib. sterl, in the same goods 
for other uses ; and I obliged him to set up the sloop which I had 
brought with me from England, as I have said, for the use of my 
colony, in order to send the refreshments I intended to my 
plantation. 

Accordingly, he got hands and finished the sloop in a very few 
days, for she was already framed, and I gave the master of her such 
instructions, as he could not miss the place, nor did he miss them, as 
I had an account from my partner afterwards. I got him soon 
loaded with the small cargo I sent them ; and one of our seamen 
that had been on shore with me there, offered to go with the sloop, 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 385 

and settle there upon my letter to the governor Spaniard, to allot 
him a suflQcient quantity of land for a plantation ; and giving him 
some clothes, and tools for his planting-'work, which he said he 
understood, having been an old planter at Maryland, and a buccaneer 
into the bargain. 

I encouraged the fellow, by granting all he desired : and as an 
addition, I gave him the savage, which we had taken prisoner of 
war, to be his slave, and ordered the governor Spaniard to give hin*' 
his share of everything he wanted, with the rest. 

When we came to fit this man out, my old partner told me, there 
was a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter of his acquaint- 
ance, who had fallen into the displeasure of the Church; I know not 
what the matter is with him, says he ; but on my conscience, T think 
he is a heretic in his heart, and he has been obliged to conceal himself 
for fear of the Inquisition ; that he would be very glad of such an 
opportunity to make his escape with his wife and two daughters ; 
and if I would let them go to my island, and allot them a plantation, 
he would give them a small stock to begin with ; for the officers of 
the Inquisition had seized all his effects and estate, and he had 
nothing left but a little household stuff and two slaves. And, adds 
he, though I hate his principles, yet I would not have him fall into 
their hands ; for he would assuredly be burnt alive, if he does. 

I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman with them, 
and we concealed the man and his wife and daughters on board our 
ship, till the sloop put out to go to sea ; and then (having put all 
their goods on hoard the sloop, some time before) we put them on 
board the sloop, after he was got out of the bay. 

Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new partner; and their 
stock indeed was much alike, rich in tools, in preparations, and a 
farm, but nothing to begin with, but as above. However, they carried 
over with them, which was worth all the rest, some materials for 
planting sugar-canes, with some plants of canes ; which he, I mean 
the Portugal man, understood very well. 

Among the rest of the supplies sent my tenants in the island, I 
sent them by their sloop, three milch cows, and five calves, about 22 
hogs among them, three sows, two mares, and a horse. For my 
Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged three Portugal women 
to go, and recommended it to them to marry them, and use them 
kindly. 

All this cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, very 
welcome to my old inhabitants, who were now, with this addition, 
between sixty and seventy people, besides little children ; of which 
there was a great many. I found letters at London from them all by 
the way of Lisbon, when I came back to England ; of which I shall 
also take some notice immediately^ 

I have now done with my island, and all manner of discourse 
about it ; and whoever reads the rest of my memorandums would do 

25 



386 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read of the 
follies of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much less by 
those of other men, to beware of the like; not cooled by almost 
forty years' misery and disappointments, not satisfied with prosperity 
beyond expectation^ not made cautious by affliction and distress 
beyond imitation, 

I had no more business to go to the East Indies than a man at 
full liberty, and having committed no crime, has to go to the 
turnkey at Newgate, and desire him to lock him up among the 
prisoners there, and starve him. Had I taken a small vessel from 
England, and went directly to the island ; had I loaded her, as I did 
the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the plantation, and for 
my people ; took a patent from the Government here to have secured 
my property, in subjection only to that of England ; had I carried 
over cannon and ammunition, servants and people, to plant, and 
taking possession of the place, fortified and strengthened it in the 
name of England, and increased it with people, as I might easily 
have done ; had I then settled myself there, and sent the ship back, 
loaden with good rice, as I might also have done in six months’ 
time, and ordered my friends to have fitted her out again for our 
supply had I done this, and stayed there myself, I had, at least, 
acted like a man of common sense; but I was possest with a wander- 
ing spirit, scorned all advantages, I pleased myself with being the 
patron of those people I placed there, and doing for thorn in a kind 
of haughty, majestic way, like an old patriarchal monarch ; provid- 
ing for them as if I had been father of the whole family, as well as 
of the plantation. But I never so much as pretended to plant in the 
name of any government or nation, or to acknowledge any prince, 
or to call my people subjects to any one nation more than another ; 
nay, I never so much as gave the place a name, but left it as I found 
it, belonging to no man; and the people under no discipline or 
government but my own ; who, though I had influence over them as 
father and benefactor, had no authority or power to act or command 
one way or other, farther than voluntary consent moved them to 
comply ; yet even this, had I stayed there, would have done well 
enough ; but as I rambled from them, and came there no more, the 
last letters I had frqm any of them was by my partner's means ; 
who afterwards sent another sloop to the place, and who sent me 
word, though I had not the letter till five years after it was written, 
that they went on but poorly, were malcontent with their long stay 
there ; that Will Atkins was dead ; that live of the Spaniards were 
come away, and that though they had not been much molested by 
the savages, yet they had had some skirmishes with them ; that 
they begged of him to write to me to think of the promise I had 
made to fetch them away, that they might see their own country 
again before they died. 

But I was gone a wild-goose chase indeed ; and they who will 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 387 


have any more of mo, must be content to follow mo through a new 
variety of follies, hardships, and wild adventures ; wherein the 
justice of Providence may be duly observed, and we may see how 
easily Heaven can gorge us with our own desires ; make the strongest 
of our wishes be our affliction, and punish us most severely with 
those very things which we think it would be our utmost happiness 
to be allowed in. 

Let no wise man flatter himself with the strength of his own 
judgment, as if he was able to choose any particular station of life 
for himself. Man is a short-sighted creature, sees but a very little 
way before him ; and as his passions are none of his best friends, so 
his particular affections are generally his worst counsellors. 

I say this with respect to the impetuous desire I had from a youth, 
to wander into the world ; and how evident it now was, that this 
principle was preserved in me for my punishment. How it came 
on, the manner, the circumstance, and the conclusion of it, it is easy 
to give you historically, and with its utmost variety of particulars. 
But the secret ends of Divine power, in thus permitting us to be 
hurried down the stream of our own desires, is only to be understood 
of those who can listen to the voice of Providence, and draw religious 
consequences from God’s justice and their own mistakes. 

Be it I had business, or no business, away I went. It is no time 
now to enlarge any farther upon the reason, or absurdity of my own 
conduct ; but to come to the history, I was embarked for the voyage, 
and the voyage I went, 

I should only add hero, that my honest and truly pious clergyman 
left me here : a ship being ready to go to Lisbon, he asked me leave 
to go thither, being still, as he observed, bound never to finish any 
voyage he began. How happy had it been for me, if I had gone with 
him ! 

But it was too late now ; all things Heaven appoints are best ; had 
I gone with him, I had never have had so many things to be thankful 
for, and you had never heard of the second part of the travels and 
adventures of Eobinson Crusoe ; so I must leave here the fruitless 
exclaiming at myself, and go on with my voyage. 

From the Brazils, we made directly away over the Atlantic Sea, to 
the Cape de bon Esperance, or, as we call it, the Cape of Good Hope ; 
and had a tolerable good voyage, our course generally south-east ; 
now and then a storm, and some contrary winds, but my disasters 
at sea were at an end ; my future rubs and cross events were to 
befall me on shore ; that it might appear the land was as well pre- 
pared to be our scourge as the sea ; when Heaven, who directs the 
circumstances of things, pleases to appoint it to be so. 

Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo on board, 
who was to direct all her motions after she arrived at the Cape ; 
only being limited to certain numbers of days, for stay, by charter- 
party, at the several ports she was to go to. This was none of my 



388 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

business, neither did I meddle with it at all ; my nephew, the captain, 
and the supercargo, adjusting £tll those things between them, as they 
thought fit. 

We made no stay at the Cape longer than was needful to take in 
fresh water ; but made the best of our way for the coast of Coro- 
mandel. We were, indeed, informed that a French man of war of 
fifty guns, and two large merchant ships, were gone for the Indies, 
and as I knew we were at war with France, I had some appre- 
hensions of them ; but they went their own way, and we heard no 
more of them. 

I shall not pester my account, or the reader, wdth descriptions of 
places, journals of our voyages, variations of compass, latitudes, 
meridian-distances, trade-winds, situation of ports, and the like ; 
such as almost all the histories of long navigation are full of, and 
makes the reading tiresome enough, and are perfectly unprofitable 
to all that read it, except only to those who are to go to those places 
themselves. 

It is enough to name the ports and places which we touched at, 
and what occurred to us upon our passing from one to another. We 
touched first at the Island of Madagascar ; where, though the people 
are fierce and treacherous, and in particular very well armed with 
lances and bows, which they use with inconceivable dexterity ; yet 
wo fared very well with them awhile, they treated us very civilly ; 
and for some trifles which we gave them, such as knives, scissors, 
etc., they brought us eleven good fat bullocks, middling in size, but 
very good in flesh ; which we took in, partly for fresh provisions for 
our present spending, and the rest to salt for the ship’s use. 

We were obliged to stay here some time after we had furnished 
ourselves with provisions ; and I, that was always too curious, to 
look into every nook of the world wherever I came, was for going on 
shore as often as I could : it was on the east side of the island that 
we went on shore, one evening ; and the people, who by the way 
are very numerous, came thronging about us, and stood gazing at us 
at a distance ; but as we had traded freely with them, and had been 
kindly used, we thought ourselves in no danger ; but when we saw 
the people, we cut three boughs out of a tree, and stuck them up at 
a distance from us, which it seems is a mark in the country not 
only of truce and friendship, but when it is accepted, the other side 
set up three poles or boughs, which is a signal that they accept the 
truce too ; but then, this is a known condition of the truce, that you 
are not to pass beyond their three poles towards them, nor they to 
come past your three poles or boughs towards you ; so that you are 
perfectly secure within the three poles, and all the space between 
your poles and theirs is allowed like a market, for free converse, 
traffic, and commerce. When you go there, you must not carry 
your weapons with you ; and if they come into that space they stick 
up their javelins' and lances, all at the first poles, and come on un- 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON^ CRUSOE, 389 

armed ; but if any violence is offered them, and the truce thereby 
broken, away they run to the poles, and lay hold of their weapons, 
and then the truce is at an end. 

It happened one evening when we went on shore, that a greater 
number of their people came down than usual, but all was very 
friendly and civil, and they brought in several kinds of provisions, 
for which we satisfied them with su^ih toys as we had ; their women 
also brought us milk, and roots, and several things very acceptable 
to us, and all was quiet ; and we made us a little tent, or hut, of 
some boughs of trees, and lay on shore all night. 

I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so well satisfied 
to lie on shore as the rest, and the boat lying at an anchor, about a 
stone cast from the land, with two men in her to take care of her ; I 
made one of them come on shore, and getting some boughs of trees 
to cover us also in the boat, I spread the sail on the bottom of the 
boat, and lay under the cover of the branches of trees all night in the 
boat. 

About two o’clock in the morning, we heard one of our men make 
a terrible noise on the shore, calling out for God's sake to bring the 
boat in, and come and help them, for they were all like to bo 
murdered ; at the same time I heard the firing of 6 muskets, which 
was the number of the guns they had, and that three times over ; 
for it seems the natives here were not so easily frighted with guns, 
as the savages were in America, where I had to do with them. 

All this while I knew not what was the matter ; but rousing im- 
mediately from sleep with the noise, I caused the boat to be thrust 
in, and resolved, with three fusils we had on board, to land and assist 
our men. 

Wo got the boat soon to the shore, but our men were in too much 
haste. For being come to the shore, they plunged into the water to 
get to the boat with ail the expedition they could, being pursued by 
between three and four hundred men : our men were but nine in all, 
and only five of them had fusils with them ; the rest had indeed 
pistols and swords, but they were of small use to them. 

We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty enough too, three 
of them being very ill wounded ; and that which was still worse was, 
that while we stood in the boat to take our men in, we were in as 
much danger as they were in on shore ; for they poured their arrows 
in upon us so thick that we were fain to barricade the side of the 
boat up with the benches, and two or three loose boards, which to 
our great satisfaction we had by mere accident or Providence in the 
boat. 

And yet, had it been daylight, they are it seems such exact marks- 
men, that if they could have seen but the least part of any of us, 
they would have been sure of us ; we had by the light of the moon 
a little sight of them, as they stood pelting us from the shore with 
darts and arrows ; and having got ready our firearms, we gave them 




390 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

a volley, that wo could hear by the cries of some of them that we 
had wounded several ; however, they stood thus in battle array on 
the shore till break of day, which we suppose was that they might 
see the better to take their aim at us. 

In this condition wo lay, and could not tell how to weigh our 
anchor, or set up our sail, because we must needs stand up in the 
boat, and tliey were as sure to hit us as we were to hit a bird in a 
tree with small shot. We made signals of distress to the ship, 
which, though we rode a league off, yet my nephew, the captain, 
hearing our tiring, and by glasses perceiving the posture we lay in, 
and that wo tired towards the shore, pretty well understood us ; and 
weighing anchor with all speed, he stood as near the shore as he durst 
with the ship, and then sent another boat with ten hands in her to 
assist us ; but we called to them not to come too near, telling them 
what condition we were in. However, they stood in nearer to us ; 
and one of the men taking the end of a tow-line in his hand, and 
keeping our boat between him and the enemy, so that they could not 
perfectly see liim, swam on board us, and made fast tlie line to the 
boat ; upon which we slipped our little cable, and, leaving our 
anchor beliind, they towed us out of reach of the arrows, we all the 
while lying close behind the barricade we had made. 

As soon as we were gob from between the ship and the shore, that 
she could lay her side to the shore, she run along just by them, and 
we poured in a broadside among them leaden with pieces of iron and 
lead, small bullets, and such stuff, besides the great shot, which 
made a terrible havoc amongst them. 

When we were got on board and out of danger, we had time to 
examine into the occasion of this fray ; and, indeed, our supercargo, 
who had been often in those parts, put me upon it ; for he said he 
was sure the inhabitants would not have touched us after we had 
made a truce, if we had not done something to provoke them to it. 
At length it came out, viz., that an old woman, who had come to 
sell us some milk, had brought it within our poles, with a young 
woman with her, who also brought some roots or herbs ; and while 
the old woman, whether she was mother to the young woman or 
no, they could not tell, was selling us the milk, one of our men 
offered some rudeness to the wench, at which the old woman went 
away without her, and, as we suppose, made an outcry among the 
people she came from ; who, upon notice, raised this great army 
upon us in three or four hours ; and, it was great odds, but we had 
been all destroyed. 

One of our men was killed with a lance thrown at him just at the 
beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the tent they had made ; 
the rest came off free, all but the fellow who was the occasion of all 
the mischief, for we could not hear what became of him a great 
while; we lay upon the shore two days after, though the wind 
presented, and made signals for him ; made our boat sail up shore 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 391 

and down shore, several leagues, but in vain ; so we were obliged to 
give him over, and if he alone had suffered for it, the loss had been 
the less. 

I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on shore 
once more to try if I could learn anything of him or them ; it was the 
third night after the action that I had a great mind to learn, if I 
could by any means, what mischief we had done, and how the game 
stood on the Indians* side. I was careful to do it in the dark, lest 
we should bo attacked again ; but I ought, indeed, to have been sure 
that the men I went with had been under my command, before I 
engaged in a thing so hazardous and mischievous as I was brought 
into by it, without my knowledge or design. 

We took twenty stout fellows with us as any in the ship, besides 
the supercargo and myself, and we landed two hours before mid- 
night, at the same place where the Indians stood drawn up the 
evening before. I landed here because my design, as 1 have said, 
was chiefly to see if they had quitted the field, and if they had left 
any marks behind them of the mischief we had done them ; and I 
thought if we could surprise one or two of them, perhaps we might 
get our man again by way of exchange. 

We landed without any noise, and divided our men into two 
bodies, whereof the boatswain commanded one, and I the other ; 
we neither saw or heard anybody stir when we landed, and we 
marched up one body at a distance from the other, to the place, but 
at first could see nothing, it being very dark ; till, by and by, our 
boatswain, that led the first party, stumbled and fell over a dead 
boy. This made them halt awhile, for knowing by the circumstances 
that they were at the place where the Indians had stood, they waited 
for my coming up here ; we concluded to halt till the moon began to 
rise, which we knew would be in less than an hour, when we could 
easily discern the havoc we had made among them ; we told two- 
and-thirty bodies upon the ground, whereof two were not quite 
dead. Some had an arm and some a leg shot off, and one his head ; 
those that were wounded we supposed they had carried away. 

When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of all we could 
come at the knowledge of, I was resolved for going on board ; but 
the boatswain and his party sent me word that they were resolved 
to make a visit to the Indian town, where these dogs, as they called 
them, dwelt, and asked me to go along with them ; and if they could 
find them, as still they fancied they should, they did not doubt getting 
a good booty, and it might be they might find Tho. J effry there — that 
was the man's name we had lost. 

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough what 
answer to have given them ; for I would have commanded them 
instantly on board, knowing it was not a hazard fit for us to run, 
who had a ship, and ship-loading in our charge, and a voyage to 
make, which depended very much upon the lives of the men ; but 



^92 Tf^E LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


as they sent me word they were resolved to go, and only asked me 
and my company to go along ’with them, I positively refused it, and 
rose up, for I was sitting on the ground, in order to go to the boat ; 
one or two of the men began to importune me to go, and when I re- 
fused positively, began to grumble, and say they were not under my 
command, and they would go. Come, Jack, says one of the men, 
wilt go with me? I’ll go for one. Jack said he would, and another 
followed, and then another ; and in a word, they all left me but one, 
who I persuaded to stay, and a boy left in the boat ; so the supercargo 
and I, with the third man, went back to the boat, where we told 
them we would stay for them, and take care to take in as many of 
them as should be left ; for I told them it was a mad thing they 
were going about, and supposed most of them would run the fate of 
Thom. Jeffry. 

They told me, like seamen, they’d warrant it they would come off 
again, and they would take care, etc. So away they went ; I en- 
treated them to consider the ship and voyage ; that their lives were 
not their own, and that they were entrusted with the voyage in some 
measure ; that if they miscarried, the ship might be lost for want of 
their help, and that they could not answer it to God or man. I said 
a great deal more to them on that head, but I might as well have 
talked to the mainmast of the ship; they were mad upon their 
journey, only they gave me good words, and begged I would not be 
angry ; that they would be very cautious, and they did not doubt 
buT3 they would be back again in about an hour at farthest ; for the 
Indian town, they said, was not above half a mile off, though they 
found it above two miles before they got to it. 

Well, they all went away, as above ; and though the attempt was 
desperate, and such as none but mad men would have gone about, 
yet to give them their due, they went about it warily as boldly. 
They were gallantly armed, that’s true ; for they had every man a 
fusee or musket, a bayonet, every man a pistol ; some of them had 
broad cutlasses, some of them hangers, and the boatswain and two 
more had pole-axes. Besides all winch they had among them thirteen 
hand-grenadoes. Bolder fellows, and better provided, never went 
about any wicked work in the world. 

When they went out their chief design was plunder, and they were 
in mighty hopes of finding gold there; but a circumstance which 
none of them were aware of set them on fire with revenge, and 
made devils of them all. When they came to the few Indian houses 
which they thought had been the town, which was not above half a 
mile off, they were under a great disappointment, for there were not 
above 12 or 13 houses, and where the town was, or how big, they 
knew not. They consulted, therefore, what to do, and were some 
time before they could resolve, for if they fell upon these they must 
cut all their throats, and it was ten to one but some of them might 
escape, it being in the night, though the moon was up ; and if one 








THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 393 

escaped he would run away and raise all the town, so they should 
have a whole army upon them. Again, on the other hand, if they 
went away and left those untouched (for the people were all asleep), 
they could not tell which way to look for the town. 

However, the last was the best advice ; so they resolved to leave 
them, and look for the town as well as they could. They went on a 
little way, and found a cow tied to a tree ; this, they presently con- 
cluded, would be a good guide to them ; for they said the cow cer- 
tainly belonged to the town before them, or the town behind them ; 
and if they untied her they should see which way she went ; if she 
went back they had nothing to say to her, but if she went forward 
they had nothing to do but to follow her. So they cut the cord, 
which was made of twisted flags, and the cow went on before them ; 
in a word, the cow led them directly to the town, which, as they re- 
port, consisted of above 200 houses or huts, and in some of these 
they found several families living together. 

Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure as sleep and a 
country that had never seen an enemy of that kind could make 
them ; and first, they called another council, to consider what they 
had to do ; and in a word, they resolved to divide themselves into 
three bodies, and to set three houses on fire in three parts of the 
town ; and as the men came out, to seize them and bind them ; if any 
resisted, they need not be asked what to do then, and so to search 
the rest of the houses for plunder; but they resolved to march 
silently first through the town, and see what dimensions it was of, 
and if they might venture upon it or no. 

They did so, and desperately resolved that they would venture upon 
them ; but while they were animating one another to the work, three 
of them that were a little before the rest called out aloud to them, 
and told them they had found Thom. Jeffry. They all run up to the 
place, and so it was indeed ; for there they found the poor fellow 
hanged up naked by one arm, and his throat cut ; there was an 
Indian house just by the tree, where they found sixteen or seventeen 
of the principal Indians who had been concerned in the fray with us 
before ; and two or three of them wounded with our shot ; and our 
men found they were awake, and talking one to another in that 
house, but knew not their number. 

The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, as before, 
that they swore to one another they would be revenged, and that 
not an Indian who came into their hands should have quarter, and 
to work they went immediately ; and yet not so raadly as by the rage 
and fury they were in might be expected. Their first care was to 
get something that would soon take fire ; but after a little search, 
they found that would be to no purpose ; but most of the houses were 
low, and thatched with flags or rushes, of which the country is full ; 
so they presently made some wild fire, as we call it, by wetting a 
little powder in the palms of their hands, and in a quarter of an 



394 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

hour they set the town on fire in four or five places ; and particu- 
larly that house where the Indians were not gone to bed. As soon 
as the fire began to blaze, the poor frighted creatures began to rush 
out to save their lives ; but met with their fate in the attempt, and 
especially at the door, where they drove them back, the boatswain 
himself killing one oi* two with his pole-axe ; the house being 
large, and many in it, he did not care to go in, but called for a hand- 
grenado, and threw it among them, which at first frighted them ; but 
when it burst, made such havoc among them, that they cried out in 
a hideous manner. 

In short, most of tlie Indians who were in the open part of the 
house were killed or hurt with the grenado, except two or three 
more who pressed to the door, which the boatswain and two more 
kept with their bayonets in the muzzles of their pieces, and despatched 
all who came that way. But there was another apartment in the 
hcuse where the prince or king, or whatever he was, and several 
others were, and these they kept in till the house, which was by this 
time all of a light flame, fell in upon them, and they were smothered 
or burnt togetlier. 

All this while they fired not a gun, because they would not waken 
the people faster than they could master them ; but the fire began 
to waken them fast enough, and our follows were glad to keep a little 
together in bodies, for the fire grew so raging, all the houses being 
made of light combustible stuff, that they could hardly bear the 
street between them, and their business was to follow the fire for 
the surer execution. As fast as the fire either forced the people 
out of those houses which were burning, or frighted them out of 
others, our people were ready at their doors to knock them on 
the head, still calling and hallooing to one another to remember 
Thom. Jeffry. 

While this was doing, I must confess I was very uneasy, and 
especially when I saw the flames of the town, which, it being night, 
seemed to be just by me. 

My nephew the captain, who was roused by his men too, seeing 
such a fire, was very uneasy, not knowing what the matter was, or 
what danger I was in ; especially hearing the guns too ; for by this 
time they began to use their fire-arms ; a thousand thoughts oppressed 
his mind concerning me and the supercargo, what should become of 
us. And at last, though he could ill spare any more men, yet not 
knowing what exigence we might be in, he takes another boat, and 
with 13 men and himself, comes on shore to me. 

He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the boat with 
no more than two men ; and though he w^as glad that we were well, 
yet he was in the same impatience with us to know what was doing ; 
for the noise continued, and the flame increased. In short, it was 
next to an impossibility for any men in the world to restrain their 
curiosity to know what had happened, or the concern for the safety 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 395 

of the men. In a word, the captain told me he would go and help 
his men, let what would come. I argued with him as I did before 
with the men, the safety of the ship, the danger of the voyage, the 
interest of the owners and merchants, etc., and told him I would go 
and the two men, and only see if we could at a distance learn what 
was like to be the event; and come back and tell him. 

It was all one, to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the rest 
before ; he 'would go, he said, and he only wished he had left but ten 
men in the ship ; for he could not think of having his men lost for 
want of help ; he had rather lose the ship, the voyage, and his life 
and all ; and away went he. 

In a word, I was no more able to stay behind now, than I was to 
persuade them not to go ; so, in short, the captain ordered two men 
to row back the pinnace, and fetch twelve men more, leaving the 
long-boat at an anchor, and that when they came back, six men 
should keep the two boats, and six more come after us ; so that he 
left only 16 men in the ship ; for the whole ship's company consisted 
of 65 men, whereof two were lost in the last quarrel, which brought 
this mischief on. 

Being now on the march, you may be sure we felt little of the 
ground wo trode on ; and, being guided by the fire, we kept no path, 
but went directly to the place of the flame. If the noise of tljc 
guns was surprising to us before, the cries of the poor people were 
now of quite another nature, and filled us with horj’or. I must 
confess 1 never was at the sacking a city, or at the taking a town 
by storm. I had heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda in 
Ireland, and killing man, woman, and child ; and I had road of 
Count Tilly sacking of the City of Magdeburgh, and cutting the 
throats of 22,000 of all sexes. But I never had an idea of the thing 
itself before, nor is it possible to describe it, or the horror which was 
upon our minds at hearing it. 

However, we went on, and at length came to the town, though 
there was no entering the streets of it for the fire. The first object 
we met with was the ruins of a hut or house, or rather the ashes 
of it, for the house was consumed ; and just before it, plain now to 
be seen by the light of the fire, lay four men and three women 
killed ; and, as we thought, one or two more lay in the heap among 
the fire. In short, there were such instances of a rage altogether 
barbarous, and of a fury something beyond what was human, that we 
thought it impossible our men could be guilty of it, or if they were 
the authors of it, we thought they ought to be every one of them put 
to the worst of deaths. But this was not all ; we saw the fire increased 
forward, and the cry went on just as the fire went on ; so that wo 
were in the utmost confusion. Wo advanced a little 'way farther, and 
behold, to our astonishment, three women, crying in a most dreadful 
manner, come flying, as if they had indeed had wings, and after 
them sixteen or seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and con- 



396 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


sternation, with three of our English butchers, for I can call them 
no better, in their rear, who, when they could not overtake them, 
fired in among them, and one that was killed by their shot fell down 
in our sight ; when the rest saw us, believing us to be their enemies, 
and that we would murder them as well as those that pursued them, 
they set up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women ; and two 
of them fell down as if already dead with the fright. 

My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood run chill in my 
veins, when I saw this ; and I believe had the three English sailors 
that pursued them come on, I had made our men kill them all. 
However, we took some ways to let the poor flying creatures know 
that we would not hurt them ; and immediately they came up to us, 
and kneeling down, with their hands lifted up, made piteous lamenta- 
tion to us to save them, which we let them know we would ; where- 
upon they crept all together in a huddle close behind us, as for pro- 
tection. I left my men drawn up together, and charged them to hurt 
nobody, but if possible to get at some of our people, and see what 
devil it was possessed them, and what they intended to do ; and in 
a word, to command them off, assuring them that if they stayed till 
daylight, they would have an hundred thousand men about their 
ears : I say, I left them, and went among those flying people, taking 
only two of our men with me ; and there was indeed a piteous spec- 
tacle among them. Some of them had their feet terribly burnt with 
trampling and running through the fire ; others their hands burnt ; 
one of the women had fallen down in the fire, and was very much 
burnt before she could get out again, and two or three of the men 
had cuts in their backs and thighs from our men pursuing ; and 
another was shot through the body, and died while I was there. 

I would fain have learned what the occasion of all this was, but 1 
could not understand one word they said, though by signs I perceived 
that some of them knew not what was the occasion themselves. I 
was so terrified in my thoughts at this outrageous attempt that I 
could not stay there, but went back to my own men, and resolved to 
go into the middle of the town through the fire, or whatever might 
be in the way, and put an end to it, cost what it would. Accordingly, 
as soon as I came back to my men, I told them my resolution, and 
commanded them to follow me, when in the very moment came four 
of our men with the boatswain at their head roving over the heaps of 
bodies they had killed, all covered with blood and dust, as if they 
wanted more people to massacre, when our men holloaed to them as 
loud as they could hollo, and with much ado one of them made 
them hear, so that they knew who we were, and came up to us. 

As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a hallo like a shout 
of triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come, and without 
bearing to hear me, Captain, says he, noble captain, I am glad you 
are come ; we have not half done yet. I'll kill as many of them as 
poor Tom has hairs upon his head. We have sworn to spare none 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 397 

of them ; we'll root out the very nation of them from the earth. 
And thus he run on, out of breath too with action, and would not 
give us leave to speak a word. 

At last, raising my voice that I might silence him a little, Bar- 
barous dog, said I, what are you doing ? I won’t have one creature 
touched more, upon paih of death. I charge you upon your life to 
stop your hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man this 
minute. 

Why, sir, says he, do you know what you do, or wliat they have 
done ? If you want a reason for what we have done, come hither ; 
and with that he showed me the poor fellow hanging with his tliroat 
cut. 

I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time should 
have been forward enough; but I thought they had carried their 
rage too far, and thought of Jacob’s words to his sons Simeon and 
Levi : Cursed bo their anger, for it was fierce ; and their wrath, 
for it was cruel. But I had now a new task upon my liands, for 
when the men I carried with me saw the sight as I had done, I had 
as much to do to restrain them as I should have had with the other ; 
nay, my nephew himself fell in with them, and told mo in their 
hearing that he was only concerned for fear of the men being over- 
powered ; for as to the people, ho thought not one of them ought to 
live ; for they had all glutted themselves with the murder of the poor 
man, and that they ought to be used like murderers. Upon these 
words away run eight of my men with the boatswain and his crew, 
to complete their work ; I seeing it quite out of my power to restrain 
them, came away pensive and sad, for I could not bear the sight, 
much less the horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches that fell 
into their hands. 

I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and two 
men, and with these I walked back to the boats. It was a very 
great piece of folly in me, I confess, to venture back, as it were, 
alone ; for as it began now to be almost day, and the alarm had run 
over the country, there stood about 40 men armed with lances and 
bows at the little place where the 12 or 13 houses stood mentioned 
before ; but by accident I missed the place, and came directly to the 
sea-side, and by the time I got to the sea-side it was broad day ; 
immediately I took the pinnace and went aboard, and sent her back 
to assist the men in what might happen. 

I observed about the time that I came to the boat-side that the 
fire was pretty well out, and the noise abated ; but in about half an 
hour after I got on board I heard a volley of our men’s firearms, 
and saw a great smoke ; this, as I understood afterwards, was our 
men falling upon the men who, as I said, stood at the few houses 
on the way, of whom they killed sixteen or seventeen, and set all 
those houses on fire, but did not meddle with the women or 
children. 




398 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


By that time the men got to the shore again with tiie pinnace, 
our men began to appear ; they came dropping in, some and some, 
not in two loodies, and in form as they went, but all in heaps strag- 
gling here and there in such a manner that a small force of resolute 
men might have cut them all off. 

But the dread of them was upon the whole country ; and the men 
were amazed, and surprised, and so frighted, I believe a hundred of 
them would have fled at the sight of but five of our men. Nor in 
all this terrible action was there a man who made any considerable 
defence, they were so surprised between the terror of tlie fire, and 
the sudden attack of our men in the dark, that they knew not which 
way to turn themselves ; for if they fled one way they were met by 
one party, if back again, by another. So that they were everywhere 
knocked down. Nor did any of our men receive the least hurt, ex- 
cept one who strained his foot, and another had one of his hands 
very much burnt. 

I was very angry with my nephew the captain, and indeed with 
all the men in my mind, but with him in particular ; as well for his 
acting so out of his duty as commander of the ship, and having the 
charge of the voyage upon him, as in his prompting rather than cool- 
ing the rage of his men in so bloody and cruel an enterprise. My 
nephew answered me very respectfully ; but told me, that when he 
saw the body of the poor seaman, whom they had murdered in such 
a cruel and barbarous manner, he was not master of himself, neither 
could he govern his passion. He owned he should not have done 
so, as he was commander of the ship ; but as he was a man, and 
nature moved him, he could not bear it. As for the rest of the men, 
they were not subject to me at all, and they knew it well enough; so 
they took no notice of my dislike. 

The next day we set sail, so we never heard any more of it. Our 
men differed in the account of the number they killed. Some said 
one thing, some another ; but according to the best of their accounts 
put all together, they killed or destroyed about 150 people, men, 
women, and children, and left not a house standing in the town. 

As for the poor fellow, Tho. Jeffry, as he was quite dead, for his 
throat was so cut that his head was half off, it would do him no 
service to bring him away, so they left him where they found him, 
only took him down from the tree where he was hanged by one 
hand. 

However just our men thought this action, I was against them in 
it ; and I always, after that time, told them I looked upon all the 
blood they shed that night to be murder in them. For though it is 
true they had killed Tho. Jeffry, yet it was as true that Jeffry was 
the aggressor. 

The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were afterwards on 
board. He said, It is true that we seemed to break the truce, but 
really had not, and that the war was begun the night before by the 


THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 399 

natives themselves, who had shot us, and killed one of our men 
without any just provocation ; so that as we were in a capacity to 
fight them now, we might also be in a capacity to do ourselves 
justice upon them in an extraordinary manner, that the poor man 
ought not to have been murdered, and that in such a villainous 
manner : and that they did nothing but what was just, and what the 
laws of God allowed to be done to murderers. 

One would think this sliould have been enough to have warned us 
against going on shore among heathens and barbarians. But it is 
impossible to make mankind wise, but at their own expense, and 
their experience seems to be always of most use to them when it is 
dearest bought. 

We are now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and from thence to the 
coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Burat. But the chief of tlie 
supercargo’s design lay at the Bay of Bengal, where if he missed of 
his business outward bound, he was to go up to China, and return to 
the coast as he came home. 

The first disaster that befell us was in the Gulf of Persia, where 
five of our men venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the gulf, 
were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all killed or carried 
away into slavery ; the rest of the boat’s crew were not able to rescue 
them, and had but just time to get off their boat. I began to up- 
braid them. But the boatswain very warmly told me, he thought I 
^vent farther in my censures than I could show any warrant for in 
Scripture, and referred to the 13 St. Luke, verse 4tli, where our 
Saviour intimates, that those men on whom the tower of Siloam 
fell were not sinners above all the Galileans. But that which indeed 
put me to silence in the case, was, that not one of these five men, 
who were now lost, were of the number of those who went on shore 
to the massacre of Madagascar (so I always called it, though our 
men could not bear the word massacre with any patience). And 
indeed, this last circumstance, as I have said, put me to silence for 
the present. 

But my frequent preaching to them on this subject had worse 
consequences than I expected ; and the boatswain, who had been 
the head of the attempt, came up boldly to me one time, and told 
me he found that I continually brought that affair upon the stage, 
that I made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the men very 
ill on that account, and himself in particular ; that as I was but a 
passenger, and had no command in the ship, or concern in the 
voyage, they were not obliged to bear it ; that they did not know 
but I might have some ill design in my head, and perhaps to call 
them to account for it when they came to England ; and that 
therefore, unless I would resolve to have done with it, and also, not 
to concern myself any farther with him, or any of his affairs, he 
would leave the ship ; for he did not think it was safe to sail with 
me among them. 



400 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then told him 
that I did confess I had all along opposed the massacre of Madagascar, 
for such I would always call it;, and that I had on all occasions 
spoken my mind freely about it, though not more upon him than any 
of the rest. That as to my having no command in the ship, that 
was true ; nor did I exercise any authority, only took my liberty of 
speaking my mind in things which publicly concerned us all ; and 
what concern I had in the voyage was none of his business ; that I 
was a considerable owner of the ship ; and in that claim I conceived 
I had a right to speak even farther than I had yet done, and would 
not be accountable to him or any one else, and begun to be a little 
warm with him. He made but little reply to me at that time, and 
I thought that affair had been over. We were at this time in the 
road at Bengal, and being willing to see the place, T went on shore 
with the supercargo in the ship’s boat, to divert myself, and towards 
evening was preparing to go on board, when one of the men came 
to me, and told me he would not have me trouble myself to come 
down to the boat, for they had orders not to carry me on board any 
more. Any one may guess what a surprise I was in at so insolent a 
message ; and I asked the man, who bade him deliver that errand to 
me ? He told me, the coxswain. I said no more to the fellow, but 
bade him let them know he had delivered his message, and that I 
had given him no answer to it. 

I immediately went and found out the supercargo, and told him 
the story, adding what I presently foresaw, viz., that there would 
certainly be a mutiny in the ship, and entreated him to go im- 
mediately on board the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint the 
captain of it. But I might have spared this intelligence ; for before 
I had spoken to him on shore, the matter was effected on board. 
The boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and, in a word, all the 
inferior officers, as soon as I was gone off in the boat, came up to 
the quarter-deck, and desired to speak with the captain ; and there 
the boatswain making a long harangue, for the fellow talked very 
well, and repeating all he had said to me, told the captain in few 
words, that as I was now gone peaceably on shore, they were loth 
to use any violence with me ; which, if I had not gone on shore, they 
would otherwise have done, to oblige me to have gone. They there- 
fore thought fit to tell him, that as they shipped themselves to serve 
in the ship under his command, they would perform it well and 
faithfully. But if I would not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me 
to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him ; 
and at that word, aZZ, he turned his face about towards the main- 
mast, which was it seems the signal agreed on between them ; at 
which, all the seamen being got together, they cried out, One and 
all, one and all. 

My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of great presence 
of mind ; and though he was surprised, you may be sure, at the 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 401 

thing, yet he told them calmly, that he would consider of the thing, 
but that he could do nothing in it till he had spoken to me about it. 
Ho used some arguments with them, to show them the unreasonable- 
ness and injustice of the thing. But it was all in vain : they swore 
and shook hands round before his face, that they would go all on 
shore, unless he would engage to them, not to suffer me to come any 
more on board the ship. 

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me, 
and did not know how I might take it ; so he began to talk cavalierly 
to them, told them that I was a very considerable owner of the ship, 
and that in justice he could not put me out of my own house ; that 
this was next door to serving me, as the famous pirate Kid had done, 
who rnade the mutiny in a ship, set the captain on shore in an un- 
inhabited island, and run away with the ship ; that let them go into 
what ship they would, if over they came to England again, it would 
cost them dear ; that the ship was mine, and that he could not put 
me out of it ; and that he would ratlier lose the ship and the voyage 
too, than disoblige me so much ; so they might do as they pleased. 
However, ho would go on shore, and talk with me on shore, and 
invited the boatswain to go with me, and perhaps they might 
accommodate the matter with me. 

But they all rejected the proposal, and said, they would have 
nothing to do with me any more, neither on board or on shore ; and 
if I came on board, they would all go on shore. Well, said the 
captain, if you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk with 
him ; so away he came to me with this account, a httle after the 
message had been brought to me from the coxswain. 

I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess ; for I was not 
without apprehensions, that they would confine him by violence, set 
sail, and run away with the ship, and then I had been stripped naked 
in a remote country, and nothing to help myself. In short, 1 had 
been in a worse case, than when I was all alone in the island. 

But they had not come that length, it seems, to my great satisfac- 
tion ; and when my nephew told me what they had said to him, and 
how they had sworn, and shook hands, that they would one and all 
leave the ship, if I was suffered to come on board, I told him, lie 
should not be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore. I 
only desired he would take care and send me all my necessary things 
on shore, and leave me a sufficient sum of money, and I would find 
my way to England as well as I could. 

This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew ; but there was no 
way to help it, but to comply with it. So, in short, he went on board 
the ship again, and satisfied the men, that his uncle had yielded to 
their importunity, and had sent for his goods from on board the ship ; 
so that matter was over in a very few hours, the men returned to 
their duty, and I began to consider what course I should steer. 

I was now alone in the remotest part of the world, as I think I 

26 



402 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

may call it ; for I was near three thousand leagues by sea farther off 
from England, than I was at my island ; only it is true, I might travel 
here by land over the great Mogul's country to Surat, might go from 
thence to Bassora by sea, up the Gulf of Persia, and from thence 
might take the way of the caravans over the Desert of Arabia to 
Aleppo and Scanderoon ; from thence by sea again to Italy, and so 
overland into France, and this put together might bo, at least, a full 
diameter of the globe ; but if it were to be measured, I suppose it 
would appear to be a great deal more. 

I had another way before me, which was to wait for some English 
ships, which wore coming to Bengal from Acheen on the island of 
Sumatra, and get passage on board them for England. But as I 
came hither without any concern with the English East-India Com- 
pany, so it would be dillicult to go from hence without their licence, 
unless with great favour of the captains of the ships, or of the 
Company's factors, and to both, I was an utter stranger. 

Here I had the particular pleasure, speaking by contraries, to see 
the ship set sail without me, a treatment, I think, a man in my cir- 
cumstances sca^-ce over met with, except from pirates running away 
with a ship, and setting those that would not agree with their villainy 
on shore. Indeed this was next door to it, both ways ; however, my 
nephew left me two servants, or rather one companion, and one ser- 
vant ; the first was clerk to the purser, who he engaged to go with 
me, and the other was his own servant; I took me also a good 
lodging in the house of an Englishwoman, where several merchants 
lodged ; some French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one English- 
man. Here I was handsomely enough entertained ; and that I might 
not be said to run rashly upon anything, I stayed here above nine 
months, considering what course to take, and how to manage myself. 
I had some English goods with me of value, and a considerable sum 
of money, my nephew furnishing me with a thousand pieces of eight, 
and a letter of credit for more, if I had occasion, that I might not be 
straitened whatever might happen. 

I quickly disposed of my goods, and to advantage too ; and, as I 
originally intended, I bought here some very good diamonds, which, 
of all other things, was the most proper for me in my present circum- 
stances, because I might always carry my whole estate about me. 

After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my return to 
England, but none falling out to my mind, the English merchant 
who lodged with me, and with whom I had contracted an intimate 
acquaintance, came to me one morning : Countryman, says he, I 
have a project to communicate to you, which, as it suits with my 
thoughts, may, for aught I know, suit with yours also, when you 
shall have thoroughly considered it. 

Here we are posted, says he, you by accident, and I by my own 
choice, in a part of the world very remote from our own country ; 
but it is in a country, where, by us who understand trade and 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF RORINSON CRUSOE. 405 

business, a great deal of money is to be got. If you will put a 
thousand pound to my thousand pound, we will hire a ship here, ths 
first we can get to our minds ; you shall be captain, I'll be merchant, 
and we will go a trading voyage to China ; for what should we stand 
still for? The whole world is in motion, rolling round and round ; 
all the creatures of God, heavenly bodies and earthly, are busy and 
diligent, why should we be idle? There are no drones in the world 
but men, why should we be of that number ? 

I liked his proposal very well, and the more, because it seemed to 
be expressed with so much good- will, and in so friendly a manner ; 
I will not say, but that I might by my loose and unhinged circum- 
stances be the fitter to embrace a proposal for trade, or indeed for 
anything else ; 'whereas, otherwise, trade was none of my element. 
However, I might perhaps say with some truth, that if trade was 
not my element, rambling was, and no proposal for seeing any part 
of the world which I never had seen before could possibly come 
amiss to me. 

It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our 
minds ; and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to get 
English sailors ; that is to say, so many as were necessary to govern 
the voyage, and manage the sailors which we should pick up there. 
After some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner English ; 
a Dutch carpenter, and three Portuguese foremast men ; with these 
we found we could do well enough, having Indian seamen, such as 
they are, to make up. 

There are so many travellers, who have wrote the history of their 
voyages and travels this way, that it would be very little diversion 
to anybody, to give a long account of the places we went to, and the 
people who inhabit there ; those things 1 leave to others, and refer 
the reader to those journals and travels of Englishmen, of which 
many I find are published, and more promised every day ; it is enough 
to me to tell you, that I made this voyage to Acheen, in the island of 
Sumatra, and from thence to Siam, where he exchanged some of our 
wares for opium, and some arrack, the first, a commodity which 
bears a great price among the Chinese, and which at that time was 
very much wanted there. In a word, we went up to Suskan, made a 
very great voyage ; was eight months out, and returned to Bengal, 
and I was very well satisfied with my adventure : I observe that our 
people in England, often admire how the officers which the company 
send into India, and the merchants which generally stay there, get 
such very great estates as they do, and sometimes come home worth 
60, 70 to 100 thousand pound at a time. 

But it is no wonder, or at least we shall see so much farther into 
it, 'when we consider the innumerable ports and places where they 
have a free commerce, that it will then be no wonder ; and much 
less will it be so, when we consider, that at all those places and ports 
where the English ships come, there is so much, and such constant 



404 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


demand for the growth of all other countries, that there is a certain 
vent for the returns, as well as a market abroad, for the goods 
carried out. 

In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so much money 
by the first adventure, and such an insight into the method of 
getting more, that had I been twenty year younger, I should have 
been tempted to have stayed here and sought no farther, for making 
my fortune ; but what was all this, to a man on the wrong side of 
threescore, that was rich enough, and came abroad, more in obedi- 
ence to a restless desire of seeing the world, than a covetous desire 
of getting in it ; and indeed I think, it is with great justice, that I now 
call it a restless desire, for it was so ; when I was at home, I was 
restless to go abroad; and now I was abroad, I was restless to be at 
home; I say, what was this gain to me? I was rich enough, nor 
had I any uneasy desires about getting more money ; and therefore 
the profits of the voyage to me were things of no great force, for 
the prompting me forward to farther undertakings ; and I thought 
that by this voyage I had made no progress at all, because I was 
come back, as I might call it, to the place from whence I came as 
to a home ; whereas, my eye, which, like that which Solomon speaks 
of, was never satisfied with seeing, was still more desirous of wan- 
dering and seeing ; I was come into a part of the world, which I was 
never in before ; and that part in particular, which I had heard much 
of ; and was resolved to see as much of as I could, and then I thought, 
I might say, I had seen all the world, that was worth seeing. 

But my fellow-traveller and I had different notions; I do nob 
name this, to insist upon my own, for I acknowledge his were the 
most just and the most suited to the end of a merchant’s life ; who 
when he is abroad upon adventures, it is his wisdom to stick to that 
as the best thing for him, which he is like to get the most money by : 
my new friend kept himself to the nature of the thing, and would 
have been content to have gone like a carrier’s horse, always to the 
same inn, backward and forward, provided he could, as he called it, 
find his account in it ; on the other hand, mine was the notion of a 
mad rambling boy, that never cares to see a thing twice over. 

But this was not all ; I had a kind of impatience upon me to be 
nearer home, and yet the most unsettled resolution imaginable 
which way to go ; in the interval of these consultations, my friend, 
who was always upon the search for business, proposed another 
voyage to me among the spice islands, and to bring home a load- 
ing of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts ; places where 
indeed the Dutch do trade, but islands, belonging partly to the 
Spaniards ; though we went not so far, but to some other, where they 
have not the whole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, etc. 
We were not long in preparing for this voyage ; the chief difficulty was 
in bringing me to come into it ; however, at last nothing else offering, 
and finding that really stirring about and trading, the profit being 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 405 


so great, and as I may say certain, had more pleasure in it, and more 
satisfaction to the mind than sitting still, which to me, especially, 
was the unhappiest part of life: I resolved on his voyage too, 
which we made very successfully, touching at Borneo, and several 
islands, whose names I do not remember, and came home in about 
five months; we sold our spice, which was chiefly cloves, and 
some nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them away 
for the gulf ; and making near five of one, we really got a great deal 
of money. 

My friend, when we made tip this account, smiled at me. Well 
now, said he, with a sort of agreeable insulting my indolent temper ; 
is not this better than walking about here, like a man of nothing to 
do, and spending our time in staring at the nonsense and ignorance 
of the pagans ? Why truly, says I, my friend, I think it is ; and I 
begin to be a convert to the principles of merchandising ; but I must 
tell you, said I, by the way, you do not know what I arn a-doiug, for 
if once I conquer my backwardness, and embark heartily, as old as I 
am, I shall harass you up and down the world till I tire you ; for I 
shall pursue it so eagerly, I shall never let you lie still. 

But to be short with my speculations, a little while after this there 
came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she was a coaster, not an 
European trader, and of about two hundred ton burden. The men, 
as they pretended, having boon so sickly, that the captain had not 
men enough to go to sea with ; he lay by at Bengal, and having, it 
seems, got money enough, or being willing for other reasons to go 
for Europe, he gave public notice that he would sell his ship. This 
came to my ears before my new partner heard of it, and I had a 
great mind to buy it ; so I goes home to him, and told him of it. 
He considered awhile, for he was no rash man neither ; but musing 
some time, he replied, She is a little too big ; but, however, we will 
have her. Accordingly wo bought the ship, and, agreeing with the 
master, we paid for her and took possession ; when we had done so 
we resolved to entertain the men if we could, to join them with those 
we had, for the pursuing our business ; but on a sudden, they having 
received not their wages, but their share of the money, not one of 
them was to be found. We inquired much about them, and at length 
were told that they were all gone together by land to Agra, the great 
city of the Mogul’s residence, and from thence were to travel to 
Surat, and so by sea to the Gulf of Persia. 

Nothing had so heartily troubled me a good w^hile as that I had 
missed the opportunity of going with them, for such a ramble I 
thought, and in such company as would both have guarded me and 
diverted me, would have suited mightily with my great design, and 
I should both have seen the world and gone homewards too ; but I 
was much better satisfied a few days after, when I came to know 
what sort of fellows they were, for in short their history was, that 
this man they called captain was the gunner only, not the commander ; 



*to6 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


that they had been a trading voyage, in which they were attacked 
on shore by some of the Malayans, who had killed the captain and 
three of his men; and that after the captain was killed these men, 
eleven in number, had resolved to run away with the ship, which 
they did, and brought her in at the Bay of Bengal, leaving the mate 
and five men on shore, of whom we shall hear farther. 

Well, let them come by the ship how they would, we came honestly 
by her, as we thought, though we did not, I confess, examine into 
things so exactly as we ought, for we never inquired anything of the 
ueamen ; who, if we had examined, would certainly have faltered in 
their account, contradicted one another, and perhaps contradicted 
themselves, or onehow or other, we should have seen reason to have 
suspected them ; but the man showed us a bill of sale for the ship, 
to one Emanuel Clostershoven, or some such name ; for I suppose 
it was all a forgery, and called himself by that name, and we could 
not contradict him ; and being withal a little too unwary, or at 
least, having no suspicion of the thing, we went through with our 
bargain. 

We picked up some more English seamen here after this, and 
some Dutch ; and now we resolved for a second voyage to the south- 
east for cloves, etc., that is to say, among the Philippine and Malacca 
Isles ; and in short, not to fill this part of my story with trifles, when 
what is yet to come, is so remarkable, I spent from first to last six 
years in this country trading from port to port, backward and for- 
ward, and with very good success, and was now the last year with 
my new partner, going in the ship above mentioned, on a voyage to 
China, but designing first to Siam to buy rice. 

In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up and 
down a great wMe in the Straits of Malacca, and among the islands; 
we were no sooner got clear of those difficult seas, but we found our 
ship had sprung a leak, and we were not able by all our industry to 
find it out where it was. This forced us to make for some port, and 
my partner, who knew the country better than I did, directed the 
captain to put into the river of Cambodia, for I had made the English 
mate, one Mr. Thomson, captain, not being willing to take the charge 
of the ship upon myself. This river lies on the north side of the 
great bay or gulf, which goes up to Siam. 

While we were here, and going often on shore for refreshment, 
there comes to me one day an Englishman, and he was, it seems, a 
gunner's mate, on board an English East-India ship, which rode in 
the same river, up at, or near the city of Cambodia ; what brought 
him hither we know not ; but he comes up to me, and speaking 
English : Sir, says he, you are a stranger to me, and I to you ; but 
I have something to tell you, that very nearly concerns you. 

I looked steadily at him a good while, and thought at first I had 
known him, but I did not. If it very nearly concerns me, said I, 
and not yourself, what moves you to tell it me ? I am moved, says 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 407 

he, by the imminent danger you are in, and for aught I see, you have 
no knowledge of it. I know no danger I am in, said I, but that my 
ship is leaky, and I cannot find it out ; but I purpose to lay her 
a-ground to-morrow, to see if I can find it. But sir, says he, leaky, 
or not leaky , find it, or not find it, you will be wiser than to lay your 
ship on shore to-morrow, when you hear what I have to say to you ; 
do you know, sir, said he, the town of Cambodia lies about fifteen 



CBUBO8 WAllNKD OF IIH DlNOKll. 


leagues up this river ? And there are two large English ships about 
five leagues on this side, and three Dutch. Well, said I, and what 
is that to me ? Why, sir, said he, is it for a man that is upon such 
adventures as you are upon, to come into a port, and not examine 
first what ships there are there, and whether he is able to deal with 
them ? I suppose you do not think you are a match for them. I 
was amused very much at his discourse, but not amazed at it, for I 


4o8 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


could not conceive what he meant ; and I turned short upon him and 
said, Sir, I wish you would explain yourself ; I cannot imagine what 
reason I have to be afraid of any company of ships, or Dutch ships ; 
I am no interloper, what can they have to say to me ? 

He looked like a man half angry, half pleased, and pausing awhile, 
but smiling, Well, sir, says he^ if you think yourself secure, you must 
take your chance ; I am sorry your fate should blind you against 
good advice ; but assure yourself, if you do not put to sea immedi- 
ately, you will the very next tide be attacked by five long-boats full 
of men, and perhaps if you are taken, you’ll be hanged for a pirate, 
and the particulars be examined afterwards. I thought, sir, added 
he, I should have met with a better reception than this, for doing 
you a piece of service of such importance. I can never be ungrateful, 
said I, for any service, or to any man that offers me any kindness, 
but it is past my comprehension, said I, what they should have such 
a design upon me for ; however, since you say there is no time to be 
lost, and that there is some villainous design in hand against me. 
I’ll go on board this minute, and put to sea immediately, if my men 
can stop the leak, or if we can swim without stopping it. But, sir, 
said I, shall I go away ignorant of the reason of all this ? Can you 
give me no farther light into it ? 

I can tell you but part of the story, sir, says he, but I have a 
Dutch seaman here with me, and I believe I could persuade him to 
tell you the rest ; but there is scarce time for it. But the short of 
the story is this, the first part of which, I suppose, you know well 
enough, viz., that you was with this ship at Sumatra, that there your 
captain was murdered by the Malayans, with three of his men, and 
that you or some of those who were on board with you, ran away 
with the ship, and are since turned pirates ; this is the sum of the 
I story, and you will be all seized as pirates, I can assure you, and 
I executed, with very little ceremony; for you know, merchants’ ships 
^ show but little law to pirates, if they get them into their power. 

Now you speak plain English, said I, and I thank you ; and though 
I know nothing that we have done, like what you talk of, but am sure 
we came honestly and fairly by the ship, yet seeing such work is 
a-doing as you say, and that you seem to mean honestly. I’ll be upon 
my guard. Nay, sir, says he, do not talk of being upon your guard ; 
the best defence is to be out of the danger, if you have any regard 
to your life, and the lives of all your men ; put out to sea without 
fail at high water, and as you have a whole tide before you, you will 
be gone too far out before they can come down, for they came away 
at high water ; and, as they have twenty miles to come, you get 
near two hours of them, by the difference of the tide, not reckoning 
the length of the way; besides, as they are only boats, and not 
ships, they will not venture to follow you far out to sea, especially if 
it blows. 

Well, says I, you have been very kind in this, what shall I do for 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE: 409 

you, to make you amends ? Sir, says he, you may not be so willing 
10 make me any amends, because you may not be convinced of the 
truth of it. I’ll make an offer to you ; I have nineteen months* pay 

due to me, on board the ship which I came out of England 

in, and the Dutchman that is with mo has seven months’ pay due to 
him ; if you will make good our pay to us, we will go along with 
you ; if you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more ; but if 
we do convince you that we have saved your lives, and the ship, and 
the lives of all the men in her, we will leave the rest to you. 

I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and 
the two men with me ; as soon as I came to the ship side, my 
partner, who was on board, came out on tlie quarter-deck, and 
called to me with a great deal of joy, O ho ! O ho I we have stopped 
the leak ! we have stopped the leak I Say you so. said I ; thank God I 
But weigh the anchor then immediately. Weigh ! says he, what do 
you mean by that ? What is the matter ? says he. Ask no ques- 
tions, says I, but all hands to work, and weigh, without losing a 
minute. He was surprised, but, however, he called the captain, and 
he immediately ordered the anchor to bo got up ; and though tlie 
tide was not quite done, yet a little land breeze blowing, we stood 
out to sea. Then I called him into the cabin, and told him the story 
at large, and we called in the men, and they told us the rest of it ; 
but as it took us up a great deal of time, so before wo had done, a 
seaman comes to the cabin door, and calls out to us that the captain 
bad him tell us we were chased. Chased, says I, by who, and by 
what ? By five sloops or boats, says the fellow, full of men. Very 
well, said I, then it is apparent there is something in it. In the next 
place I ordered all our men to be called up, and told them th-^t there 
was a design to seize the ship, and to take us for pirates, and 
them if they would stand by us, and by one another. The men 
answered cheerfully, that one and all they would live and die with us. 
Then I asked the captain what way he thought best for us to manage 
a fight with them ; for resist them I was resolved we would, and that 
to the last drop. He said, readily, that the way was to keep them 
«rith our great shot as long as we could, and then to fire at them 
,’*^f<^th our small arms as long as we could ; but when neither of these 
would do any longer, we should retire to our close quarters ; perhaps 
they had not materials to break open our bulkheads, or get in 
upon us. 

The gunner had in the meantime order to bring two guns to bear 
fore and aft out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and load them 
with musket-bullets and small pieces of old iron, and what next 
came to hand, and thus we made ready for fight ; but all this while 
we kept out to sea, with wind enough ; and could see the boats at a 
distance, being five large long-boats, following us with all the sail 
they could make. 

Two of those boats, which by our glasses we could see were 



410 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

tEnglish, out-sailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead of them, 
and gained upon us considerably ; so that we found they would come 
*up with us ; upon which, we fired a gun without ball to intimate 
mat they should bring to, and we put out a flag of truce ; as a signal 
for parley ; but they kept crowding after us till they came within 
shot, when wo took in our white flag, they having made no answer 
to it, hung out a red flag, and fired at them with a shot. Notwith- 
standing this they came on till they were near enough to call to them 
with a speaking trumpet, which we had on board ; so we called to 
them, and bid them keep off at their peril. 

It was all one ; they crowded after us, and endeavoured to come 
under our stern, so to board us on our quarter ; upon which, seeing 
they were resolute for mischief, and depended upon the strength that 
followed them, I ordered to bring the ship to, so that they lay upon 
our broadside, when immediately we fired five guns at them ; one of 
which had been levelled so true as to carry away the stern of the 
hindermost boat, and bring them to the necessity of taking down 
their sail, and running all to the head of the boat to keep her from 
sinking ; so she lay by, and had enough of it; but seeing the foremost 
boat crowd on after us, we made ready to fire at her in particular. 

While this was doing, one of the three boats that was behind, being 
forwarder than the other tw’O, made up to the boat which we had 
disabled, to relieve her, and we could afterwards see her take out the 
men ; wo called again to the foremost boat, and offered a truce to 
parley again, and to know what was her business with us ; but had 
no answer, only she crowded close under our stern ; upon this our 
gunner, who was a very dexterous fellow, run out his two chase-guns 
and fired again at her ; but the shot missing, the men in the boat 
shouted, waved their caps, and came on; but the gunner getting 
quickly ready again, fired among them the second time ; one shot of 
which, though it missed the boat itself, yet fell in among the men, 
and we could easily see, had done a great deal of mischief among 
them ; but we taking no notice of that, wared the ship again, and 
brought our quarter to bear upon them ; and firing three guns more, 
we found the boat was split almost to pieces ; in particular, her rudder, 
and a piece of her stern was shot quite away, so they handed their 
sail immediately, and were in great disorder ; but to complete their 
misfortune, our gunner let fly two guns at them again ; where he hit 
them we could not tell, but we found the boat was sinking, and some 
of the men already in the water ; upon this, I immediately manned 
out our pinnace, which we had kept close by our side, with orders to 
pick up some of the men if they could, and save them from drown- 
ing, and immediately to come on board with them ; because we saw 
the rest of the boats began to come up; our men in the pinnace 
followed their orders, and took up three men ; one of which was just 
drowning, and it was a good while before we could recover him ; as 
soon as they were on board, we crowded all the sail we could make, 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 41 1 

and stood farther ont to sea, and we found that when the other three 
boats came up to the first two, they gave over their chase. 

Being thus delivered from a danger, which though I knew not the 
reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater than 1 appreliended ; I 
took care that we would change our course, and not let anyone 
imagine whither we were going ; so wo stood out to sea eastward, 
quite out of the course of all European ships, whether they were 
bound to China, or anywhere else, within the commerce of the 
European nations. 

When we were now at sea, we began to consult with the two sea- 
men, and inquire first what the meaning of all this should be, and 
the Dutchman let us into the secret of it at once ; telling us that the 
fellow that sold us the ship, as we said, w^as no more than a tliicf, 
that had run away with her. Then he told ns, how the captain, 
whose name too he told us, though I do not remember, was treacher- 
ously murdered by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three 
of his men ; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got into the 
woods, where they >vandered about a great while : till at length, he 
in particular, in a miraculous manner made his escape, and swam off 
to a Dutch ship, which sailing near the shore, in its way from China, 
had sent their boat on shore for fresh water; that* he durst not come 
to that part of the shore where the boat was, but shift in the night, 
to take the water farther olf, and the ship's boat took him up. 

Ho then told us, that he went to Batavia, where two of the seamen 
belonging to the ship arrived, having deserted the rest in their travels, 
and gave an account, that the fellow who had run away with the 
ship, sold her at Bengal, to a set of pirates, which were gone a 
cruising in her ; and that they had already taken an English ship 
and two Dutch ships very richly laden. 

This latter part we found to concern us directly, and though wo 
knew it to be false; yet as my partner said very well, if we had fallen 
into their hands, and they had had such a prepossession against us 
beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have defended ourselves, or 
to hope for any good quarter at their hands, and especially consider- 
ing that our accusers had been our judges, and that we could have 
expected nothing from them, but what rage would have dictated, and 
an ungoverned passion have executed ; and therefore it was his 
opinion, we should go directly back to Bengal, from whence we 
came, without putting in at any port whatever ; because there we 
could give a good account of ourselves, could prove where we were 
when the ship put in, who wo bought her of, and the like ; and which 
was more than all the rest, if we were put to the necessity of bring- 
ing it before the proper judges, we should be sure to have some justice, 
and not be hanged first, and judged afterwards. 

I was sometime of my partner’s opinion ; but after a little more 
serious thinking, I told him, I thought it was a very great hazard for 
iis to attempt returning to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong 



412 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


side of the Straits of Malacca ; and that if the alarm was given, we 
should be sure to be waylaid on every side, as well by the Dutch of 
Batavia, as the English elsewhere ; that if wo should be taken, as it 
were, running away, we should even condemn ourselves, and there 
would want no more evidence to destroy us ; I also asked the English 
sailor’s opinion, who said, he was of my mind, and that we should 
certainly be taken. 

This danger a little startled my partner and all the ship’s company ; 
and wo immediately resolved to go away to the coast of Tonquin, 
and so on to the coast of China, and pursuing the first design as to 
trade, find some way or other to dispose of the ship, and come back 
in some of the vessels of the country, such as we could get. This 
was approved of as the best method for our security ; and accordingly 
we steered away N.N.E., keeping above fifty leagues off from the 
usual course to the eastward. 

This, however, put us to some inconveniences ; for first the winds, 
when we came to the distance from the shore, seemed to be more 
steadily against us, blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the east, 
and E.N.E. so that we were a long while upon our voyage, and we 
were but ill provided with victuals for so long a voyage ; and which 
was still worse, there was some danger that those English and Dutch 
ships, whose boats pursued us, whereof some were bound that way, 
might be got in before us, and if not, some other ship, bound to China, 
might have information of us from them, and pursue us with the 
same vigour. 

I must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, in- 
cluding the late escape from the long-boats, to have been in the most 
dangerous condition that ever I was in through all my past life ; or 
whatever ill circumstances I had been in, I was never pursued for 
a thief before : nor had I ever done anything that merited the name 
of dishonest or fraudulent, much less thievish. I had chiefly been 
my own enemy, or as 1 may rightly say, I had been nobody’s enemy 
but my own. I3ut now I was embarrassed in the worst condition 
imaginable ; for though I was perfectly innocent, I was in no condition 
to make that innocence appear. And if I had been taken, it had 
been under a supposed guilt of the v/orst kind; at least, a crime 
esteemed so among the people I had to do with. 

This made me very anxious to make an escape, thpugh, which 
way to do it, I knew not, or what port or place we should go to. My 
partner seeing me thus dejected, though he was the most concerned 
at first, began to encourage me ; and describing to me the several 
ports of that coast, told me he would put in on the coast of Cochin- 
china, or the Bay of Tonquin, intending to go afterwards to Macao, 
a town once in the possession of the Portuguese, and where still a 
great many European families resided, and particularly the missionary 
priests usually went thither, in order to their going forward to China. 

Hither then we resolved to go ; and accordingly, though after a 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 413 

tedious and irregular course, and very much straitened for provisions, 
we came within sight of the coast very early in the morning ; and 
upon reflection upon the past circumstances we were in, and the 
danger if we had not escaped, we resolved to put into a small river, 
which however had a depth enough of water for us, and to seo if we 
could, either over land, or by the ship’s pinnace, come to know 
what ships were in any port thereabouts. This happy step was 
indeed our deliverance ; for though we did not immediately see any 
European ships in the Bay of Tonquin, yet the next morning there 
came into the bay two Dutch ships, and a third without any colours 
spread out, but which we believed to be a Dutchman passed by at 
about two leagues’ distance, steering for the coast of China ; and in 
the afternoon went by two English ships steering the same course ; 
and thus, we thought, we saw ourselves beset with enemies, both one 
way or other. The place we were in was wild and barbarous, the 
people thieves, even by occupation or profession ; and though it is true 
we had not much to seek of them, and except getting a few provisions, 
cared not how little we had to do with them, yet it was with much diffi- 
culty that we kept ourselves from being insulted by them several ways. 

We were in a small river of this country, within a few leagues of 
its utmost limits northward ; and by our boat we coasted north-east 
to the point of land, which opens the great Bay of Tonquin; and it 
was in this beating up along the shore, that we discovered, as above, 
that, in a w^ord, wo were surrounded with enemies. The people we 
were among, were the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of the 
coast ; having no correspondence with any other nation, and dealing 
only in fish, and oil, and such gross commodities ; and it may be 
particularly seen, that they are, as I said, the most barbarous of any 
of the inhabitants, viz., that among other customs they have this as 
one, viz., that if any vessel have the misfortune to be shipwrecked 
upon their coast, they presently make their men all prisoners or 
slaves ; and it was not long before we found a spice of their kindness 
this way, on the occasion following. 

I have observed above, that our ship sprung a leak at sea, and 
that we could not find it out ; and however, it happened, that as I 
have said, it was stopped unexpectedly in the happy minute of our 
being to be seized by the Dutch and English ships in the Bay of 
Siam ; yet as we did not find the ship so perfectly fit and sound as 
we desired, we resolved, while we were in this place, to lay her on 
shore, take out what heavy things we had on board, wliich were not 
many, and to wash and clean her bottom, and, if possible, to find 
out where the leaks were. 

Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought all our guns 
and other movable things to one side, we tried to bring her down 
that we might come at her bottom ; but on second thoughts wo did 
not care to lay her dry on ground, neither could we find out a proper 
place for it. 



414 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a 
sight, came wondering down to the shore, to look at us ; and seeing 
the ship lie down on one side in such a manner, and heeling in 
towards the shore, and not seeing our men, who were at work on her 
bottom, with stages and with their boats on the off-side, they pre- 
sently concluded that the ship was cast away, and lay so fast on the 
ground. 

On this supposition they came all about us in two or three hours* 
time, with ten or twelve large boats, having some of them eight, 
some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have come on board, 
and plundered the ship ; and if they had found us there, to have 
carried us away for slaves to their king, or whatever they call him ; 
for wo knew nothing who was their governor. 

When they came up to the ship, and began to row round her, they 
discovered us all hard at work on the outside of the ship’s bottom 
and side, washing, and graving, and stopping, as every seafaring man 
knows how. 

They stood for awhile gazing at us, and we, who wore a little sur- 
prised, could not imagine what their design was ; but, being willing to 
be STire, we took this opportunity to get some of us into the ship, and 
others to hand down arms and ammunition to those that were at 
work, to defend themselves with, if there should be occasion ; and it 
was no more than need ; for in less than a quarter of an hour’s con- 
sultation, they agreed, it seems, that the ship was really a wreck, that 
we were all at work endeavouring to save her, or to save our lives 
by the help of the boats ; and when we handed our arms into the 
boats, they concluded, by that motion, that wo were endeavouring to 
save some of our goods ; upon this they took it for granted we all 
belonged to them ; and away they came down upon our men, as if it 
had been in a line of battle. 

Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be frighted ; for we 
lay but in an ill posture to fight, and cried out to us to know what 
they should do ; T immediately called to the men who worked upon 
the stages, to slip them down, and get up the side into the ship ; and 
bade those in the boat to row round and come on board ; and those 
few of us, who were on board, worked with all the strength and 
hands we had, to bring the ship to rights ; but however, neither 
the men upon the stages or those in the boats, could do as they were 
ordered, before the Cochin Chineses were upon them ; and two of their 
boats boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the men as 
their prisoners. 

The first man they laid hold of was an English seaman, a stout 
strong fellow, who having a musket in his hand, never offered to fire 
it, but laid it down in the boat, like a fool, as I thought ; but he 
understood his business better than I could teach him ; for he grappled 
the pagan, and dragged him by main force out of their own boat into 
ours ; where, taking him by the two ears, he boat his head so against 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 415 

the boat’s gunnel, that the fellow died instintly in his hands; and 
in the meantime, a Dutchman, who stood next, took up the musket, 
and with the butt-end of it, so laid about him, that he knocked down 
live of them, who attempted to enter the boat. But this was doing 
little towards resisting thirty or forty men, who fearless, because 
ignorant of their danger, began to throw themselves into the long- 
boat, where we had but live men in all to defend it. But one 
accident gave our men a complete victory, which deserved our 
laughter rather than anything else, and that was this : 

Our carpenter being preparing to grave the outside of the ship, 
as well as to pay the seams, where he had caulked her to stop the 
leaks, had got two kettles just let down into the boat, one filled with 
boiling pitch, and the other with resin, tallow, and oil, and such 
stuff' as the shipwrights use for that work ; and the man that tended 
the carpenter had a great iron ladle in his hand, with which he 
supplied the men that were at work with that hot stuff ; two of the 
enemy’s men entered the boat just where this fellow stood, being in 
the fore-sheets ; he immediately saluted them with a ladle full of the 
stuff, boiling hot, which so burnt and scalded them, being Jialf naked, 
that they roared out like two bulls, and, enraged with the fire, leaped 
both into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out, Well done, 
Jack, give them some more of it; and stepping forward himself, takes 
one of their mops, and dipping it in the pitch-pot, he and liis man 
threw it among them so plentifully that, in short, of all the men in 
three boats, there was not one that was not scalded and burnt with 
it in a most frightful pitiful manner, and made such a howling and 
crying, that I never heard a worse noise, and indeed nothing like it ; 
for it is worth observing, that though pain naturally makes all people 
cry out, yet every nation has a particular way of exclamation, and 
make noises as different from one another as their speech ; I cannot 
give the noise these creatures made a better name than howling, nor 
a name more proper to the tone of it ; for I never heard anything 
more like the noise of the wolves which, as I have said, I heard howl 
in the forest on the frontiers of Languedoc. 

I was never pleased with a victory better in my life ; not only as 
it was a perfect surprise to me, and that our danger was imminent 
before ; but as we got this victory without any bloodshed , except of 
that man the fellow killed with his naked hands, and which I was 
very much concerned at ; for I was sick of killing such poor savage 
wretches, even though it was in my own defence, knowing they came 
on errands which they thought just, and knew no better ; and that 
though it may be a just thing, because necessary, for there is no 
necessary wickedness in nature, yet I thought it was a sad life, 
which we must be always obliged to be killing our fellow-creatures 
to preserve our own, and indeed I think so still ; and I would even 
now suffer a great deal, rather than I would take away the life, even 
of that person injuring me. And I believe, all considering people. 



4i6 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


who know the value of life, would be of my opinion, at least, they 
would, if they entered seriously into the consideration of it. 

But to return to my story.' All the while this was doing, my 
partner and I, who managed the rest of the men on board, had with 
great dexterity brought the ship almost to rights ; and having gotten 
the guns into their places again, the gunner called to me to bid our 
boat get out of the way, for he would let fly among them. I called 
back again to him, and bid him not offer to fire, for the carpenter 
would do the work without him, but bade him heat another pitch- 
kettle, which our cook, who was on board, took care of. But the 
enemy were so terrified with what they had met with in their first 
attack, that they would not come on again ; and some of them that 
were farthest off, seeing the ship swim, as it were, upright, begun, as 
we supposed, to see their mistake, and give over the enterprise, find- 
ing it was not as they expected. Thus we got clear of this merry 
fight ; and having gotten some rice, and some roots, and bread, with 
about sixteen good big hogs on board, two days before, we resolved 
to stay here no longer, but go forward whatever came of it ; for we 
made no doubt but we should be surrounded the next day with 
rogues enough, perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dispose of 
for us. 

We therefore got all our things on board the same evening, and 
the next morning were ready to sail ; in the meantime, lying at an 
anchor at some distance, we were not so much concerned, being now 
in a fighting posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if any enemy had 
presented. The next day, having finished our work within board, 
and finding our ship was perfectly healed of all her leaks, we set 
sail. We would have gone into the Bay of Tonquin ; for we wanted 
to inform ourselves of what w’^as to be known concerning the Dutch 
ships that had been there ; but wm durst not stand in there, because 
we had seen several ships go in, as we supposed, but a little before ; 
so we kept on N.E. towards the Isle of Formosa, as much afraid of 
being seen by a Dutch or English merchant ship, as a Dutch or 
English merchant ship in the Mediterranean is of an Algerine man 
of war. 

When we were thus got to sea, we kept out N.E. as if we would 
go to the Manillas or the Philippine Islands ; and this we did, that 
we might not fall into the way of any of our European ships ; and 
then we steered north till we came to the latitude of 22 degrees,. 
30 min. ; by which means we made the island Formosa directly, 
where we came to an anchor, in order to get water and fresh pro- 
visions, which the people there, who are very courteous and civil in 
their manners, supplied us with willingly, and dealt very fairly and 
punctually with us in all their agreements and bargains ; which is 
what we did not find among other people ; and may be owing to the 
remains of Christianity, which was once planted here by a Dutch 
missionary of Protestants, and is a testimony of what I have often 


THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 417 

observed, viz., that the Christian religion always civilizes the people, 
and reforms their manners, where it is received, whether it works 
saving effects upon them or no. 

hYorn hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at an 
equal distance, till we knew we were beyond all the ports of China, 
where European ships usually come, being resolved if possible not 
to fall into any of their hands, especially in this country, where, as 
our circumstances were, we could not fail of being entirely ruined ; 
nay, so great was my fear in particular, as to my being taken by 
them, that I believe firmly, I would much rather have chosen to fall 
into the hands of the Spanish Inquisition. 

Ifeing now come to the latitude of 30 degrees, we resolved to put 
into the first trading port we should come at ; and standing in for tlie 
shore, a boat came off two leagues to us, with an old Portuguese 
pilot on board, who, knowing us to be an European ship, came to 
us to offer his service, which indeed we were very glad of, and took 
him on board, upon which, without asking us whither wo would go, 
he dismissed the boat he came in, and sent them back. 

I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old man 
carry us whither we would, that I began to talk with him about 
carrying us to the Gulf of Nankin, which is the most northern part 
of the coast of China. The old man said he knew the Gulf of 
Nankin very well, but, smiling, asked us what we would do there? 

I told him we woiild sell our cargo and purchase China wares, 
calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, etc., and so would return 
by the same course we came. lie told us our best port had been to 
have put in at Macao, where we could not have failed of a market 
for our opium, to our satisfaction, and might for our money have 
purchased all sorts of China goods as cheap as w^e could at Nankin. 

Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which he was 
very opiniated or conceited, I told him we were gentlemen as well as 
merchants, and that we had a mind to go and see the great city of 
Tekin, and the famous court of the monarch of China. Why, then, 
Bays the old man, you should go to Ningpo, where, by the river 
which runs into the sea there, you may go up within five leagues 
of the great canal. This canal is a navigable river, which goes 
through the heart of that vast empire of China, crosses all the 
rivers, passes some considerable hills by the help of sluices and 
gates, and goes up to the city of Pekin, being in length near 270 
leagues. 

Well, said I, Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our business 
now. The great question is. If you can carry us up to the city of 
Nankin, from whence we can travel to Pekin afterwards? Yes, he 
said, he could do so very well, and that there was a great Dutch 
ship gone up that way just before. This gave me a little shock, and 
a Dutch ship was now our terror ; and we depended upon it that a 
Dutch ship would be our destruction, for we were in no condition to 

27 



4i8 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


fight them ; all the ships they trade with into those parts being of 
great burden, and of much greater force than we were. 

The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern, 
when he named a Dutch ship, and said to me. Sir, you need be under 
no apprehensions of the Dutch, I suppose they are not now at war 
with your nation. No, says I, that's true ; but I know not what 
liberties men may take when they are out of the reach of the law. 
Why, says he, you are no pirates, wdiat need you fear ? They will 
not meddle with peaceable merchants sure. 

If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my face 
at that word it was hindered by some stop in the vessels appointed 
by nature to prevent it ; for it put me into the greatest disorder and 
confusion imaginable. Nor was it possible for me to conceal it so, 
but that the old man easily perceived it. 

Sir, says he, I find you are in some disorder in your thoughts at 
my talk ; pray be pleased to go which way you think fit, and depend 
upon it III do you all the service I can. W'hy, Seignior, said I, it is 
true I am a little unsettled in my resolution at this time whither to 
go in particular ; and I am something more so, for what you said 
about pirates ; I hope there are no pirates in these seas ; we are but 
in an ill condition to meet with them, for you see we have but a 
small force and but very weakly manned. 

O sir, says he, do not be concerned, I do not know that there has 
been any pirates in these seas these fifteen years, except one which 
was seen, as I hear, in the Bay of Siam, about a month since ; but 
you may be assured she is gone to the southward ; nor was she a ship 
of any great force, or fit for the work ; she was not built for a priva- 
teer, but was run away with by a reprobate crew that were on board, 
after the captain and some of his men had been murdered by the 
Malayans, at or near the island of Sumatra. 

What ! said I, seeming to know nothing of the matter, did they 
murder the captain? No, said he, I do not understand that they 
murdered him ; but as they afterwards run away with the ship, it is 
generally believed they betrayed him into the hands of the Malayans, 
Avho did murder him, and perhaps they procured them to do it. 
Why then, said I, they deserve death as much as if they had done it 
themselves. Nay, says the old man, they do deserve it, and they will 
certainly have it if they light upon any English or Dutch ship ; for 
they have all agreed together that if they meet that rogue they will 
give him no quarter. 

But, said I to him, you say the pirate is gone out of those seas. 
How can they meet with him ? Why, that is true, says he, they do 
say BO ; but he was, as I tell you, in the Bay of. Siam, in the Eiver 
Cambodia, and was discovered there by some Dutchmen who belonged 
to the ship, and who were left on shore when they run away with 
her ; and some English and Dutch traders being in the river, they 
were within a little of ^-^king him. Nay, said he, if the foremost 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 41 C 


boats had been well seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken 
him ; but he finding only two boats within reach of him, tacked 
about, and fired at these two, and disabled them before the obher 
came up, and then standing off to sea, the others were not able to 
follow him, and so ho got away. But they have all so exact a de- 
scription of the sliip that they will be sure to know him ; and 
wherever they find him, they have vowed to give no quarter, to cither 
the captain, or the seamen, but to hang them all up at the yard-arm. 

What ! says I, will they execute them right or wrong ; hang them 
first, and judge them afterwards? O sir, says the old pilot, there’s 
no need to make a formal business of it with such rogues as those ; 
let them tie them back to back, and set them a diving ; it is no 
more than they richly deserve. 

I knew I had my old man fast aboard, and that he could do me 
no harm, so that I turned short upon him. Well now, seignior, said 
1, and this is the very reason why I would have you carry us up to 
Nankin, and not to put back to Macao, or to any otlier part of the 
country where the English or Dutch ships come ; for be it known to 
you, seignior, those captains of the English and Dutch ships are a 
parcel of rash, proud, insolent fellows, that neither know what 
belongs to justice, nor how to behave themselves, as the laws of 
God and nature direct ; but being proud of their offices, and not 
understanding their power, they would act the murderers to punish 
robbers ; would take upon them to insult men falsely accused, and 
determine them guilty without due inquiry ; and, perha]:>s, 1 may live 
to call some of tliem to an account for it, wiicre they may be taught 
how justice is to be executed, and tliat no man ought to bo treated 
as a criminal till some evidence may be had of the crime, and that ho 
is the man. 

With this I told him that this was the very ship they attacked, 
and gave him a full account of the skirmish wc had with their boats, 
and how foolishly and coward-Iiko they behaved. I told him all the 
story of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen served us. I 
told him the reasons I had to believe that this story of killing the 
Blaster by the Malayans was true ; as also the runnirfg away with 
the ship ; but that it was all a fiction of their own to suggest that 'the 
men w^ere turned pirates ; and they ought to have been sure it was so 
before they had ventured to attack us by surprise, and oblige us to 
resist them ; adding that they would have the blood of those men, 
who we killed there in our just defence, to answer for. 

The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we were 
very much in the right to go away to the north, and that if he might 
advise us, it should be to sell the ship in China, which we might 
very well do, and buy or build another in the country ; and, said he, 
though you will not get so good a ship, yet you may got one able 
enough to carry you and all your goods back again to Bengal, or 
^iiywhere else. 

27—2 



420 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


I told him, I would take his advice, when I came to any port 
where I could find a ship for ;ny turn, or get any customer to buy 
this. He replied, I should meet with customers enough for the ship 
at Nankin, and that a Chinese junk would serve me very well to 
go back again ; and that he would procure me people, both to buy 
one and sell the other. 

Well, but seignior, says I, as you say they know the ship so well, 
I may perhaps, if I follow your measures, be instrumental to bring 
some honest innocent men into a terrible broil, and perhaps to be 
murdered in cold blood ; for wherever they find the ship, they will 
prove the guilt upon the men, by proving this was the ship, and so 
innocent men may probably be overpowered and murdered. Why, 
says the old man, I will find out a way to prevent that also ; for as 
I know all those commanders you speak of very well, and shall see 
them all as they pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the 
thing, and let them know that they had been so much in the wrong ; 
that though the people, who were on board at first, might run away 
with the ship, yet it was not true that they had turned pirates ; and 
that in particular, these were not the men that first went off with the 
ship, but innocently bought her for their trade ; and I am persuaded 
they will so far believe me, as at least to act more cautiously for the 
time to come. Well, says I, and will you deliver one message to 
them from me ? Yes, I will, says he, if you will give it under your 
hand in writing, that I may be able to prove that it came from you, 
and not out of my own head. I answered, that I would readily give 
it him under my hand ; so I took a pen, and ink, and paper, and 
wrote at large the story of assaulting me with the long-boats, etc., 
the pretended reason of it, and the unjust cruel design of it ; and 
concluded to the commanders, that they had done what they not 
only should have been ashamed of, but also, that if ever they came 
to England, and I lived to see them there, they should all pay dearly 
for it, if the laws of my country were not grown out of use before I 
arrived there. 

My old pilot read this over and over again, and asked me several 
times if I would stand to it ? I answered, I would stand to it as long 
as I had anything left in the world, being sensible that I should 
one time or other find an opportunity to put it home to them. But 
we had no occasion ever to let the pilot carry this letter ; for he 
never went back again. While those things were passing between 
us, by way of discourse, we went forward, directly for Nankin, and 
in about thirteen days* sail came to an anchor at the south-west 
point of the great Gulf of Nankin, where, by the way, I came by 
accident to understand, that two Dutch ships were gone the length 
before me, and that I should certainly fall into their hands ; I con- 
sulted my partner again in this exigency, and he was as much at a 
loss as I was, and would very gladly have been safe on shore almost 
anywhere; however, I was not in such perplexity neither, but I 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 421 

asked the old pilot, if there was no creek or harbour, which I might 
put into, and pursue my business with the Chinese privately, and ba 
in no danger of the enemy : he told me, if I would sail to the south- 
ward about two-and-forty leagues, there was a little port called 
Quinchang, where the fathers of the mission usually landed from 
Macao, on their progress to teach the Christian religion to the 
Chinese, and where no European ships ever put in ; and if I thought 
to put in there, T might consider what farther course to take when I 
was on shore. He confessed, he said, it was not a place for merchants, 
except that at some certain times, they had a kind of a fair there, 
when the merchants from J apan came over thither to buy the Chinese 
merchandises. 

We all agreed to go back to this place; the name of the port, as 
he called it, I may perhaps spell wrong ; for I do not particularly 
remember it, having lost this, together with the names of many other 
places, set down in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the 
water, on an accident, which I shall relate in its order ; but this I 
remember, that the Chinese, or Japanese merchants we corresponded 
witli, called it by a differing name from that which our Portuguese 
pilot gave it, and pronounced it as above, Quinchang. 

As we were unanimous in our resolutions to go to this x^lace, we 
weighed the next day, having only gone twice on sliore, wliero wo 
were to get fresh water ; on both which occasions, the people of the 
country were very civil to us, and brought us abundance of things to 
sell to us ; I mean, of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice, and some 
fowls ; but nothing without money. 

We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) not till five 
days, but it was very much to our satisfaction ; and I was joyful, 
and I may say, thankful, when I set my foot safe on shore ; resolving, 
and my partner too, that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and 
effects, any other way, though not every way to our satisfaction, we 
would never set one foot on board that unhappy vessel more ; and 
indeed I must acknowledge, that of all the circumstances of life, that 
ever I had any experience of, nothing makes mankind so completely 
miserable, as that of being in constant fear. Well does the Scripture 
Bay, The fear of man brings a snare ; it is a life of death, and the mind 
is so entirely suppressed by it, that it is capable of no relief ; the 
animal spirits sink, and all the vigour of nature, which usually sup- 
ports men under other afflictions, and is present to them in the 
greatest exigencies, fails them here. 

Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy, by heighten- 
ing every danger, representing the English and Dutch captains to be 
men incapable of hearing reason, or of distinguishing between honest 
men and rogues ; or between a story calculated for our own turn, 
made out of nothing, on purpose to deceive ; and a true genuine 
•account of our whole voyage, progress, and design ; for we might 
many ways have convinced any reasonable creature, that we were not 



2 fHh LtPE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


pirates ; the goods wo had on board, the course we steered, our frankly 
showing ourselves, and entering into such and such ports ; and even 
our very manner, the force we had, the number of men, the few arms, 
little ammunition, short provisions, all these would have served to 
convince any men, that we were no pirates ; the opium, and other 
goods we had on board, would make it appear, the ship had been at 
Bengal ; the Dutchmen, who it was said, had the names of all the 
men that were in the ship, might easily see that we were a mixture 
of English, Portuguese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen on 
board. These, and many other particular circumstances, might have 
made it evident to the understanding of any commander, whose hands 
we might fall into, that we were no pirates. 

But fear, that blind useless passion, worked another way, and 
threw us into the vapours ,* it bewildered our understandings, and 
set the imagination at work, to form a thousand terrible things, that 
perhaps might never happen ; we first supposed, as indeed everybody 
liad related to us, that the seamen on board the English and Dutch 
ships, but especially the Dutch, were so enraged at the name of a 
pirate, and especially at our beating of their boats, and escaping, that 
they would not give themselves leave to inquire, whether we were 
pirates or no ; but would execute us off-hand, as we call it, without 
giving us any room for a defence ; we reflected that there was really 
so much apparent evidence before them, that they would scarce 
inquire after any more ; as first, that the ship was certainly the 
same, and that some of the seamen among them knew her, and had 
been on board her ; and secondly, that when we had intelligence at 
the river of Cambodia, that they were coming down to examine us, 
we fought their boat and fled ; so that we made no doubt but they 
were fully satisfied of our being pirates, as we were satisfied of the 
contrary ; and as I often said, I know not but I should have been 
apt to have taken those circumstances for evidence, if the tables were 
turned, and my case was theirs, and have made no scruple of cutting 
all the crew to pieces, without believing, or perhaps considering, 
what they might have to offer in their defence. 

But let that be how it will, those were our apprehensions ; and 
both my partner and I too, scarce slept a night, without dreaming of 
halters, and yard-arms ; that is to say, gibbets, of fighting, and being 
taken ; of killing and l3eing killed ; and one night I was in such a 
fury in my dream, fancying the Dutchmen had boarded us, and I was 
knocking one of their seamen down, that I struck my double fist 
against the side of the cabin I lay in, with such a force, as wounded 
my hand most grievously, broke my knuckles, and cut and bruised 
the flesh ; so that it not only waked me out of my sleep, but I was 
once afraid I should have lost two of my fingers. 

Another apprehension I had, was of the cruel usage we might meet 
with from them, if we fell into their hands ; then the story of Amboyna 
pame into my head, and how the Dutch might perhaps torture us, as 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 423 

they did our countrymen there; and make some of our men, by 
extremity of torture, confess those crimes they never were guilty of ; 
own themselves, and all of us to be pirates, and so they would put 
us to death, with a formal appearance of justice; and that they might 
bo tempted to do this, for the gain of our ship and cargo, which was 
worth four or five thousand pound, put all together. 

These things tormented me and my partner too, night and day ; 
nor did we consider that the captains of ships have no authority to 
act thus ; and if we had surrendered prisoners to them, they could not 
answer the destroying us, or torturing us, but would be accountable 
for it, when they came into their own country. This I say, gave me 
no satisfaction ; for if they will act thus with us, what advantage 
would it be to us, that they would be called to an account for it ; or 
if we were first to be murdered, what satisfaction would it be to us 
to have them punished when they came home ? 

I cannot refrain taking notice here, what reflections I now had 
upon the past variety of my particular circumstances ; how hard I 
thought it was, that I who had spent forty years in a life of continued 
difliculties, and was at last come as it were to the port or haven, 
which all men drive at, viz., to have rest and plenty, should be a 
volunteer in new sorrows, by my own unhappy choice; and that I, 
who had escaped so many dangers in my youth, should now come to 
be hanged in my old ago, and in so remote a place, for a crime I was 
not in the least inclined to, much less really guilty of ; and in a place 
and circumstance where innocence was not like to be any protection 
at all to me. 

After these thoughts, something of religion would come in ; and I 
should be considering, that this seemed to mo to bo a disposition of 
immediate Providence, and I ought to look upon it, and submit to it 
as such ; that although I was innoceiit as to men, I was far from 
being innocent as to my Maker ; and I ought to look in and examine, 
what other crimes in my life, were most obvious to me ; and for 
which, Providence might justly inflict this punishment, as a retribu- 
tion ; and that I ought to submit to this, just as I would to a ship- 
wreck, if it had pleased God to have brought such a disaster upon me. 

In its turn, natural courage would sometimes take its place; and 
then I would be talking myself up to vigorous resolutions, that I 
would not be taken, to be barbarously used by a parcel of merciless 
wretches, in cold blood ; that it were much better to have fallen into 
the hands of the savages, who were man-eaters, and who, I was sure, 
would feast upon me, when they had taken me ; than by those, who 
would perhaps glut their rage upon me, by inhuman tortures and 
barbarities ; that in the case of the savages, I always resolved to die 
fighting, to the last gasp; and why should I not do so, seeing it was 
much more dreadful to me at least, to think of falling into these 
men’s hands, than ever it was to think of being eaten by men ; for 
the savages, give them their due, would not eat a man till he was 



424 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


(lead, and killed them first, as we do a bullock; but that these men 
had many arts beyond the cruelty of death. Whenever these 
thoughts prevailed, I was sure 'to put myself in a kind of fever, with 
the agitations of a supposed fight; my blood would boil, and my eyes 
sparkle, as if I was engaged ; and I always resolved that I would 
take no quarter at their hands ; but even at last, if I could resist no 
longer, I would blow up the ship and all that was in her, and leave 
them but little booty to boast of. 

By how much the greater weight, the anxieties and perplexities of 
these things were to our thoughts while we w^ere at sea, by so much 
the greater was our satisfaction, when we saw ourselves on shore ; 
and my partner told me he dreamed, that he had a very heavy load 
upon his back, which he was to carry up a hill, and found that he 
was not able to stand long under it ; but that the Portuguese pilot 
came and took it off his back, and the hill disappeared, the ground 
before him showing all smooth and plain, and truly it was so, we 
were all like men, who had a load taken oif their backs. 

For my part, I had a weight taken oh' from my heart, that I was 
not able any longer to bear ; and as I said above, we resolved to go 
no more to sea in that ship. When we came on shore, the old 
pilot, who was now our friend, got us a lodging and a warehouse for 
our goods, which by the way, was much the same : it was a little 
house or hut, with a large house joining to it, all built with canes, 
and palisadoed round with largo canes, to keep out pilfering thieves, 
of which, it seems, there were not a few in that country ; however, 
the magistrates allowed us also a little guard, and we had a sentinel 
with the kind of halberd, or half-x>ike, who stood sentinel at our 
door ; to whom we allowed a pint of rice, and a little piece of money, 
about the value of threepence, per day, so that our goods were kept 
very safe. 

The fair or mart, usually kept in this place, had been over some 
time ; however, we found that there were three or four junks in the 
I river, and two Japanners, I mean, ships from Japan, with goods 
which they had bought in China, and were not gone away, having 
Japanese merchants on shore. 

The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us, was to bring us 
acquainted with three missionary Eomish priests, who were in the 
town, and who had been there some time, converting the people to 
Christianity ; but we thought they made but poor work of it, and 
made them but sorry Christians when they had done ; however, that 
was none of our business. One of these was a Frenchman, whom 
they called Father Simon ; he was a jolly well-conditioned man, very 
free in his conversation, not seeming so serious and grave, as the 
other two did; one of whom was a Portuguese, and the other a 
Genoese ; but Father Simon was courteous, easy in his manner, and 
very agreeable company ; the other two were more reserved, seemed 
rigid and austere, and applied seriously to the work they came about. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 425 

viz., to talk with, and insinuate themselves among the inhabitants, 
wherever they had opportunity ; we often eat and drank with those 
men, and though I must confess, the conversion as they call it, of the 
Chinese to Christianity, is so far from the true conversion required, 
to bring heathen people to the faith of Christ, that it seems to amount 
to little more, than letting them know the name of Christ, and say 
some prayers to the Virgin Mary, and her son, in a tongue which 
they understand not, and to cross themselves and the like ; yet it 
must be confessed that these religious, who we call missionaries, have 
a firm belief that these people shall be saved, and that they are 
the instruments of it ; and on this account, they undergo not only 
the fatigue of the voyage, and hazards of living in such places, but 
oftentimes death itself, with the most violent tortures, for the sake 
of this work ; and it would be a great want of charity in us, what- 
ever opinion we have of the work itself, and the manner of their 
doing it, if we should not have a good opinion of their zeal, who 
undertook it with so many hazards, and who have no prospect of the 
least temporal advantage to themselves. 

But to return to my story ; this French priest, Father Simon, was 
appointed it seems by order of the chief of the mission, to go up to 
Pekin, the royal seat of the Chinese Emperor, and waited only for 
another priest, who was ordered to come to him from Macao, to go 
along with him; and we scarce ever met together but he was in- 
viting me to go that journey, tolling me how he would show me all 
the glorious things of that mighty empire; and among the rest, the! 
greatest city in the world ; a city, said he, that your London and our| 
Paris put together cannot be equal to. This was the city of Pekin, \ 
which I confess is very great, and infinitely full of people ; but as I 
looked on those things with different eyes from other men, so I shall 
give my opinion of them in few words, when I come in the course of 
my travels to speak more particularly of them. 

But first, I come to my friar or missionary ; dining with him one 
day, and being very merry together, I showed some little inclination 
to go with him,' and ho pressed me and my partner very hard, and 
with a great many persuasions to consent. Why, Father Simon, 
says my partner, why should you desire our company so much? 
You know we are heretics, and you do not love us, nor cannot keep 
ns company with any pleasure. O ! says he, you may perhaps be 
good Catholics in time; my business here is to convert heathens, 
and who knows but I may convert you too ? Very well, father, said 
I, so you will preach to us all the way. I won’t be troublesome to you, 
says he ; our religion does not divest us of good manners ; besides, 
says he, we are here like countrymen, and so we are compared to 
the place we are in ; and if you are Huguenots, and I a Catholic, we 
may be all Christians at last ; at least, said he, wo are all gentlemen, 
and we may converse so, without being uneasy to one another. I 
liked that part of his discourse very well, and it began to put me in 



426 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

mind of my priest, that I had left in the Brazils ; but this Father 
Simon did not come up to his character, by a great deal ; ioT though 
Father Simon had no appearance of a criminal levity in him neither, 
yet he had not that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety, and sincere 
affection to religion, that my other good ecclesiastic had, of whom I 
have said so much. 



FATHER SIMON 


But to leave him a Kttle, though he never left us, nor soliciting us 
to go with him ; but we had something else before us at first ; for 
we had all this while our ship, and our merchandise to dispose of, 
and we began to be very doubtful what we should do, for we were 
now in a place of very little business ; and once I was about to ven- 
ture to sail for the river of Kilam, and the city of Nankin. But 
Providence seemed now more visibly, as I thought, than ever, to 
concern itself in our affairs ; and I was encouraged from this very 
time to think I should one way or other get out of this tangled cir- 





THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 427 

cumstance, and be brought home to my own country again, though I 
had not the least view of the manner; and when I began sometimes 
to think of it, could not imagine by what method it was to be done. 
Providence, I say, began here to clear up our way a little, and the 
first thing that offered was that our old Portuguese pilot brought a 
Japan merchant to us, who began to inquire what goods we had ; and 
in the first place he bought all our opium, and gave us a very good 
price for it, paying us in gold by weight, some in small pieces of 
their own coin, and some in small wedges of about ten or eleven 
ounces each. While we were dealing with him for our opium, it 
came into my head that he might perhaps deal with us for the ship 
too, and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him ; he shrunk up 
his shoulders at it when it was first proposed to him ; but in a few 
days after, he came to me with one of the missionary priests for his 
interpreter, and told me he had a proposal to make to me, and that 
was this ; he had bought a great quantity of goods of us, when he 
had no thoughts (or proposals made to him) of buying the ship ; and 
that, therefore, he had not money enough to pay for the ship ; but if 
I would let the same men who were in the ship navigate her, he 
would hire the ship to go to Japan, and would send them from thence 
to the Philippine Islands with another loading, which he would pay 
the freight of before they went from Japan ; and that at their return 
he would buy the ship. I began to listen to his proposal, and so 
eager did my head still run upon rambling, that I could not but 
begin to entertain a notion of going myself with him, and so to sail 
from the Philippine Islands away to the South Seas; and accordingly 
I asked the Japanese merchant, if he would not hire us to the 
Philippine Islands, and discharge us there. He said, No, he could not 
do that, for then he could not have the return of his cargo ; but he 
would discharge us in Japan, ho said, at the ship’s return. Well, 
still I was for taking him at that proposal, and going myself; but my 
partner, wiser than myself, persuaded me from it, representing the 
dangers as well of the seas, as of the Japanese, who are a false, cruel, 
and treacherous people; and then of the Spaniards, at the Phihppines, 
more false, more cruel, and more treacherous than they. 

But to bring this long turn of our affairs to a conclusion ; the first 
thing we had to do was to consult with the captain of the ship, and 
with his men, and know if they were willing to go to Japan; and 
while I was doing this, the young man, who, as I said, my nephew 
had left with me as my companion for my travels, came to me, and 
told me that he thought that voyage promised very fair, and that 
there was a great prospect of advantage, and he would be very glad 
if I undertook it ; but that if I would not, and would give him leave, 
he would go as a merchant, or how I pleased to order him ; that if 
ever he came to England, and I was there and alive, he would render 
me a faithful account of his success, and it should be as much mine 
as I pleased. 



428 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


I was really loth to part with him, but considering the prospect of 
advantage, which was really considerable, and that he was a young 
fellow as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I inclined to let him 
go ; but first I told him, I would consult my partner, and give him 
an answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed about it, and 
my partner made a most generous offer ; he told me, you know it 
has been an unlucky ship, and we both resolve not to go to sea in it 
again ; if your steward, so he called my man, will venture the voyage. 
I’ll leave my share of the vessel to him, and let him make his best 
of it ; and if we live to meet in England, and he meets with success 
abroad, he shall account for one half of the profits of the ship’s 
freight to us, the other shall be his own. 

If my partner, who was no way concerned with my young man, 
made him such an offer, I could do no less than offer him the same ; 
and all the ship’s company being willing to go with him, we made 
over half the ship to him in property, and took a writing from him, 
obliging him to account for the other, and away he went to Japan. 
The Japan merchant proved a very punctual honest man to him, 
protected him at Japan, and gob him a licence to come on shore, 
which the Europeans in general have not lately obtained ; paid him 
his freight very punctually, sent him to the Philippines loaded with 
Japan and China wares, and a supercargo of their own, who trafficking 
with the Spaniards, brought back European goods again, and a great 
quantity of cloves and other spice ; and there he was not only paid 
his freight very well, and at a very good price, but being not willing 
to sell the ship then, the merchant furnished him with goods on his 
own account ; that for some money, and some spices of his own, 
which he brought with him, he went back to the Manillas to the 
Spaniards, where he sold his cargo very well. Here, having gotten 
a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got his ship made a free ship ; 
and the governor of Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco, in America, 
on the coast of Mexico, and gave him a licence to land there, and 
travel to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to Europe with all 
his men. 

He made the voyage to Acapulco very happily, and there he sold 
his ship ; and having there also obtained allowance to travel by land 
to Porto Bello, he found means, somehow or other, to get to Jamaica 
with all his treasure ; and about eight years after came to England 
exceeding rich ; of the which I shall take notice in its place ; in the 
meantime, I return to our particular affairs. 

Being now to part with the ship and ship’s company, it came 
before us, of course, to consider what recompense we should give to 
the two men that gave us such timely notice of the design against us 
in the river of Cambodia. The truth was, that they had done us a 
considerable service, and they deserved well at our hands; though, 
by the way, they were a couple of rogues too ; for as they believed 
the story of our being pirates, and that we had really run away 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 429 

with the ship, they came down to us, not only to betray the design 
that was formed against us, but to go to sea with us as pirates ; and 
one of them confessed afterwards, that nothing else but the hopes of 
going a roguing brought him to do it. However, the service they did 
us was not the less ; and, therefore, as I had promised to be grateful 
to them, I first ordered the money to be paid to them, which they 
said was due to them on board their respective ships ; that is to say, 
the Englishman nineteen months* pay, and to the Dutchman seven ; 
and over and above that, I gave them, each of them, a small sum of 
money in gold, and which contented them very well ; then I made 
the Englishman gunner in the ship, the gunner being now made 
second mate and purser ; the Dutchman I made boatswain ; so they 
were both very well pleased, and proved very serviceable, being both 
able seamen, and very stout fellows. 

We were now on shore in China; if I thought myself banished, 
and remote from my own country at Bengal, where I had many 
ways to get home for my money, what could I think of myself 
now? when I was gotten about a thousand leagues farther off 
from home, and perfectly destitute of all manner of prospect of 
return. 

All we had for it was this, that in about four months* time, there 
was to be another fair at the place where we were ; and then wo 
might be able to purchase all sorts of the manufactures of the 
country, and withal, might possibly find some Chinese junks or 
vessels from Tonquin, that would be to be sold, and would carry us 
and our goods wliither we pleased ; this I liked very well, and re- 
solved to wait ; besides, as our particular persons were not obnoxious, 
so if any English or Dutch ships came thither, perhaps we might have 
an opportunity to load our goods, and get passage to some other 
place in India, nearer home. 

Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here ; but to divert 
ourselves, we took two or three journeys into the country ; first we 
went ten days* journey to see the city of Nankin, and a city well 
worth seeing indeed ; they say it has a million of people in it ; which, 
however, I do not believe ; it is regularly built, the streets all exactly 
straight, and cross one another in direct lines, which gives the figure 
of it great advantage. 

But when I come to compare the miserable people of these 
countries with ours, their fabrics, their manner of living, their 
government, their religion, their wealth, and their glory (as some 
call it), I must confess I do not so much as think it is worth naming, 
or worth my while to write of, or any that shall come after me to 
read. 

It is very observable that we wonder at the grandeur, the riches, 
the pomp, the ceremonies, the government, the manufactures, the 
commerce, and the conduct of these people ; not that it is to be 
wondered at, or indeed in the least to be regarded ; but because, 



430 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


having first a true notion of the barbarity of those countries, the 
rudeness and the ignorance thfbt prevails there, we do not expect to 
find any such things so far off. 

Otherwise, what are their buildings to the palaces and royal 
buildings of Europe ? What their trade, to the universal commerce 
of England, Holland, France, and Spain ? What are their cities to 
ours, for wealth, strength, gaiety of apparel, rich furniture, and an 
infinite variety? What are their ports, supplied with a few junks 
and barks, to our navigation, our merchant fleets, our large aid 
powerful navies ? Our City of London has more trade than all their 
mighty empire : one English, or Dutch, or French man-of-war of 
80 guns, would fight and destroy all the shipping of China. But the 
greatness of their wealth, their trade, the power of their govern- 
ment, and strength of their armies, is surprising to us, because, as I 
have said, considering them as a barbarous nation of pagans, little 
better than savages, we did not expect such things among them ; 
and this indeed is the advantage with which all their greatness and 
power is represented to us ; otherwise it is in itself nothing at all ; 
for as I have said of their ships, so may be said of their armies ami 
troops ; all the forces of their empire, though they were to bring 
two millions of men into the field together, would bo able to do 
nothing but ruin the country, and starve themselves. If they were 
to besiege a strong town in Flanders, or to fight a disciplined army, 
one line of German cuirassiers, or of French cavalry, would over- 
throw all the horse of China ; a million of their foot could not 
stand before one embattled body of our infantry, posted so as not 
to be surrounded, though they were to be not one to twenty in 
number ; nay, I do not boast if I say that 30,000 German or English 
foot, and 10,000 French horse, would fairly beat all the forces of 
China. And so of our fortified towns, and of the art of our engineers 
in assaulting and defending towns ; there is not a fortified town in 
China could hold out one month against the batteries and attacks 
of an European army ; and at the same time, all the armies of 
China could never take such a town as Dunkirk, provided it was 
not starved ; no, not in a ten years' siege. They have firearms, it 
is true, but they are awkward, clumsy, and uncertain in going off. 
They have powder, but it is of no strength. They have neither 
discipline in the field, exercise to their arms, skill to attack, or 
temper to retreat ; and therefore, I must confess, it seemed strange 
to me, when I came home, and heard our people say such fine 
things of the power, riches, glory, magnificence, and trade of the 
Chinese ; because I saw, and knew, that they were a contemptible 
herd or crowd of ignorant sordid slaves, subjected to a government 
qualified only to rule such a people ; and in a word, for I am now 
launched quite beside my design, I say, in a word, wore not its 
distance inconceivably great from Muscovy, and was not the 
Muscovite empire almost as rude, impotent, and ill-governed a crowd 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 431 


of slaves as they, the Czar of Muscovy might with much ease drive 
them all out of their country, and conquer them in one campaign ; 
and had the Czar, who I since hear is a growing prince, and begins 
to appear formidable in the world, fallen this way, instead of attack- 
ing the warlike Swedes, in which attempt none of the powers of 
Europe would have envied or interrupted him ; he might by this time 
have been Emperor of China, instead of being beaten by the King of 
Sweden at Narva, when the latter was not one to six in number. As 
their strength and their grandeur, so their navigation, commerce, 
and husbandry, is imperfect and impotent, compared to the same 
things in Europe ; also in their knowledge, their learning, their 
skill in the sciences ; they have globes and spheres, and a smatter 
of the knowledge of the mathematics ; but when you come to inquire 
into their knowledge, how short-sighted are tlie wisest of their 
students ! they know nothing of the motion of the heavenly bodies ; 
and so grossly, absurdly ignorant, that when the sun is eclipsed, they 
think it is a great dragon has assaulted and run away with it, and 
they fall a clattering with all the drums and kettles in the country, 
to fright the monster away, just as we do to hive a swarm of bees. 

As this is the only excursion of this kind which I have made in 
all the account I have given of my travels, so I shall make no more 
descriptions of countries and people : it is none of my business, or 
any part of my design ; but giving an account of my own adven- 
tures, through a life of inimitable wanderings, and a long variety of 
changes, which perhaps few that come after mo will have heard the 
like of ; I shall therefore say very little of all the mighty places, desert 
countries, and numerous people I have yet to pass through, more 
than relates to my own story, and which my concern among them 
will make necessary. I was now, as near as I can compute, in the 
heart of China, about the latitude of thirty degrees north of the 
line, for we were returned from Nankin. I had, indeed, a mind to 
see the city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and Patlier 
Simon importuned me daily to do it. At length, his time of going 
away being set, and the other missionary, who was to go with him, 
being arrived from Macao, it was necessary that we should resolve 
either to go, or not to go ; so I referred him to my partner, and left it 
wholly to his choice, who at length resolved it in the affirmative, and 
we prepared for our journey. We set out with very good advantage, 
as to finding our way, for we got leave to travel in the retinue of one 
of their mandarins, a kind of viceroy, or principal magistrate in the 
province where they reside, and who take great state upon them, 
travelling with great attendance, and with great homage from the 
people, who are sometimes greatly impoverished by them, because all 
the countries they pass through are obliged to furnish provisions for 
them and all their attendance. That which I particularly observed, 
as to our travelling with his baggage, was this, that though we 
received sufficient provisions, both for ourselves and our horses. 




432 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


from the country, as belonging to the mandarin, yet we were obliged 
to pay for everything we had, after the market price of the country, 
and the mandarin’s steward, or commissary of the provisions, 
collected it duly from us ; so that our travelling in the retinue of 
the mandarin, though it was a very great kindness to us, was not 
such a mighty favour in him, but was, indeed, a great advantage to 
him, considering there were above thirty other people travelled in 
the same manner besides us, under the protection of his retinue, or, 
as we may call it, under his convoy. This, I say, was a great 
advantage to him, for the country furnished all the provisions for 
nothing, and he took all our money for them. 

We were five-and-twenty days travelling to Pekin, through a 
country infinitely populous, but miserably cultivated ; the husbandry, 
the economy, and the way of living miserable, though they boast so 
much of the industry of the people ; I say miserable, and so it is, if 
we who understand how to live were to endure it, or to compare it 
with our own, but not so to these poor wretches who know no other. 
The pride of these people is infinitely great, and exceeded by nothing 
but their poverty, which adds to that which I call their misery ; and 
I must needs think the naked savages of America live much more 
happy, because, as they have nothing, so they desire nothing; 
whereas these are proud and insolent, and in the main are^-me^^ 
beggars and drudges ; their ostentation is inexpressible, and is chiefly 
showed in their clothes and building, and in the keeping multitudes' 
of servants or slaves, and, which is to the last degree ridiculous, 
their contempt of all the world but themselves. 

I must confess I travelled more pleasantly afterwards in the deserts 
and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary, tlian here ; and yet the 
roads here are well paved, and well kept, and very convenient for 
travellers. But nothing was more awkward for me than to see such 
a haughty, imperious, insolent people, in the midst of the grossest 
simplicity and ignorance, for all their famed ingenuity is no more. 
And my friend Father Simon and I used to be very merry upon these 
occasions, to see the beggarly pride of these people ; for example : 
coming by the house of a country gentleman, as Father Simon called 
him, about ten leagues off of the city of Nankin, we had first of all 
the honour to ride with the master of the house about two miles. 
The state he rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture 
of pomp and poverty. 

The habit of this greasy don was very proper for a scaramouch or 
merry-andrew, being a dirty calico, with all the tawdry and trapping 
of a fool’s coat, such as hanging sleeves, tassejs, and cuts and slashes 
almost on every side ; it covered a taffety vest, as greasy as a 
butcher, and which testified that his honour must needs be a most 
exquisite sloven. 

^ His horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling creature, such as in 
England might sell for about 30 or 40 shillings, and he had two 






TUiC DON. 


city to his country seat, about half a league before us. We travelled 
on gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode away before us, and as 
stopped at a village about an hour to refresh us, when we came 
by the country seat of this great man, we saw him in a little place, 
before his door, eating his repast. It was a kind of a garden, but he 





434 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


was easy to be seen, and we were given to understand that the more 
we looked on him, the better, he would be pleased. 

He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto-tree, which 
effectually shaded him over the head, and on the south side, but 
under the tree also, was placed a large umbrella, which made that 
part look well enough ; he sat lolling back in a great elbow-chair, 
being a heavy corpulent man, and his meat being brought him by 
two women slaves. He had two more, whose office, I think, few 
gentlemen in Europe would accept of their service in, viz., one fed 
the squire with a spoon, and the other held the dish with one hand, 
and scraped off what he let fall upon his worship’s beard and taffety 
vest, while the great fat brute thought it below him to employ his 
own hands in any of those familiar offices which kings and monarchs 
would rather do than be troubled with the clumsy fingers of their 
servants. 

I took this time to think what pain men’s pride puts them to ; and 
how troublesome a haughty temper, thus ill-managed, must be to a 
man of common sense ; and, leaving the poor wretch to please him- 
self with our looking at him, as if we admired his pomp, whereas we 
really pitied and contemned him, we pursued our journey ; only 
Father Simon had the curiosity to stay and inform himself what 
dainties the country justice had to feed on, in all his state, which he 
said he had the honour to taste of, and which was, I think, a dose 
that an English hound would scarce have eaten, if it had been offered 
him, viz., a mess of boiled rice with a great piece of garlic in it, and 
a little bag filled with green pepper, and another plant which they 
have here, something like our ginger, but smelling like musk, and 
tasting like mustard ; all this was put together, and a small lump or 
piece of lean mutton boiled in it ; and this was his worship’s repast, 
four or five servants more attending at a distance. If he fed them 
meaner than he was fed himself, the spice excepted, they must fare 
very coarsely indeed. 

As for our mandarin, with whom we travelled, he was respected 
like a king ; surrounded always with his gentlemen, and attended in 
all his appearances with such pomp, that I saw little of him but at 
a distance, but this I observed, that there was not a horse in his 
retinue, but that our carriers’ pack-horses in England seemed to me 
to look much better, but they were so covered with equipage, mantles, 
trappings and such like trumpery, that you cannot see whether they 
are fat or lean ; in a word, we could see scarce anything but their feet 
and their heads. 

I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and perplexity that I 
liave given an account of being over, I had no anxious thoughts about 
me, which made this journey the pleasanter to me, nor had I any ill 
accident attended me, only in the passing or fording a small river, 
my horse fell, and made me free of the country, as they call it, that 
is to say, threw me in; the place was not deep, but it wetted me all 



the life and adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 435 

over ; I mention it because it spoiled my pocket-book, wherein I had 
set down the names of several people and places which I had occa- 
sion to remember, and which, not taking due care of, tlie leaves rotted^ 
and the words were never after to be read, to my great loss, as to the 
names of some places I touched at in this voyage. 

At length we arrived at Pekin ; I had nobody with mo but the 
youth, whom my nephew, the captain, had given me to attend me as 
a servant, and who proved very trusty and diligent, and my partner 
had nobody with him but one servant, who was a kinsman ; as for 
the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see the court, we gave him 
his passage, that is to say, bore his charges for his company; and to 
use him as an interpreter, for he understood the language of the 
country, and spoke good French, and a little English ; and indeed, 
this old man was a most useful implement to us everywhere ; for we 
had not been above a week at Pekin, when ho came laughing, Ah, 
Seignior Inglese, says he, I have something to tell you will make your 
heart glad. My heart glad, says I, what can that bo? I don’t know 
anything in this country can eitlier give me joy or grief to any great 
degree. Yes, yes, said the old man in broken English, make you glad, 
me sorrow ; sorry, he would have said. This made me more inquisi- 
tive. Why, said I, will it make you sorry? Because, said he, you 
liave brought mo here 25 days’ journey, and will leave mo to go back 
alone, and which way shall I get to my port afterwards, without a 
ship, without a horse, without pecune? So he called money, being 
his broken Latin, of which he had abundance to make us merry 
with. 

In short, he told us there was a great caravan of Muscovite and 
Polish merchants in the city, and they were preparing to set out on 
their journey by land to Muscovy within four or five weeks, and ho 
was sure we would take the opportunity to go with them, and leave 
liim behind to go back all alone. I confess, I was surprised with his 
news : a secret joy spread itself over my own soul, which I cannot 
describe, and never felt before or since, and I had no power for a 
good while to speak a word to the old man ; but at last I turned to 
him ; How do you know this ? said I ; are you sure it is true ? Yes, 
fiays he, I met this morning in the street an old acquaintance of 
mine, an Armenian, or one you call a Grecian, who is among them ; 
he came last from Astracan, and was designing to go to Tonquin, 
’where I formerly knew him, but has altered his mind, and is now re- 
solved to go with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the Biver 
Volga to Astracan, Well, seignior, says I, do not be uneasy about 
being left to go back alone ; if this be a method for my return to 
England, it shall be your fault if you go back to Macao at all. We 
then went to consulting together what was to be done, and I asked 
partner what he thought of the lulot’s news, and whether it would 
suit with his affairs. He told me he w^ould do just as I would, for 
he had settled all his affairs so well at Bengal, and left his effects in 

28-2 



436 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


Buch good hands, that as we had made a good voyage hero, if he 
could vest it in China silks, wrought and raw, such as might be worth 
the carriage, he would be content to go to England, and then make 
his voyage back to Bengal, by the company’s ships. 

Having resolved upon this, we agreed, that if our Portugal pilot 
would go with us, we would bear his charges to Moscow or to England 
if lie pleased ; nor indeed were we to be esteemed over generous in 
that part neither, if we had not rewarded him farther, for the service 



TUB ARMKNIAN MM.tUANT, 


he had done us was really worth all that, and more ; for he had not 
only been a pilot to us at sea, but he had been like a broker for us on 
shore ; and his procuring for us the Japan merchant, was some 
hundred of pounds in our pocket. So we consulted together about 
it, and being willing to gratify him, which was indeed but doing him 
justice, and very willing also to have him with us besides, for he was 
a most necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to give him a 
quantity of coined gold, which, as I compute it, came to about 175 



the life and adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 437 

pounds sterling between us, and to bear all bis charges, both for 
himself and horse, except only a horse to carry his goods. 

Having settled this among ourselves, we called him to let him know 
what we had resolved ; I told him he had complained of our being like 
to let him go back alone, and I was now to tell him we were resolved 
he should not go back at all : that as we had resolved to go to Europe 
with the caravan, we resolved also he should go with us, and that we 
called him, to know his mind. He shook his head, and said it was 
a long journey, and ho had no pecune to carry him thither, or to 
subsist himself when he came there. We told him we believed it 
was so, and therefore we had resolved to do something for him, that 
should let him see how sensible we were of the service he had done us, 
and also how agreeable he was to us ; and then I told him what we 
had resolved to give him here, which he might lay out as we would 
do our own ; and that as for his charges, if he would go with us we 
w^ould set him safe ashore (life and casualties excepted), cither in 
Muscovy or England, which he would, at our own charge except 
only the carriage of his goods. 

lie received the proposal like a man transported, and told us ho 
would go with us over the whole world; and so, in short, we all 
prepared ourselves for the journey. However, as it was with us, so 
it was with the other merchants, they had many tilings to do, and 
instead of being ready in five wrecks, it was four mouths and some 
odd days before all things were got together. 

It was the beginning of February, our style, when 'we set out from 
Pekin ; my partner and the old pilot had gone exx'iress back to the 
port where he had first put in, to dispose of some goods which wo 
had left there; and I, with a Chinese merchant, whom I had some 
knowledge of at Nankin, and who came to Pekin on his own affairs, 
went to Nankin, where I bought ninety pieces of fine damasks, with 
about tw^o hundred pieces of other very fine silks, of several sorts, 
some mixed with gold, and had all these brought to Pekin against 
my partner’s return; besides this w^e bought a very large quantity of 
raw silk, and some other goods, our cargo amounting in these goods 
only to about three thousand five hundred pounds sterling, which, 
together with tea and some fine calicoes, and three camels’ loads of 
nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all eighteen camels for our share, be- 
sides those we rode upon; which with two or three spare horses, 
and two horses loaded with provisions, made us in short 26 camels 
and horses in our retinue. 

The company was very great, and, as near as I can remember, 
made between three and four hundred horse, and upwards of a 
hundred and twenty men, very well armed and provided for all events : 
for as the Eastern caravans are subject to be attacked by the Arabs, 
so are these by the Tartars ; but they are not altogether so dangerous 
as the Arabs, nor so barbarous when they prevail. 

The company consisted of people of several nations, such as 



438 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Muscovites chiefly, for there were above sixty of them who were 
merchants or inhabitants of jMoscow, though of them some were 
Livonians, and to our particular satisfaction, five of them were Scots, 
who appeared also to be men of great experience in business, and 
men of very good substance. 

When we had travelled one day’s journey, the guides, who were 
five in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants, that is to 
bay, all the passengers except the servants, to a great council, as 
they called it. At this great council every one deposited a certain 
quantity of money to a common stock, for the necessary expense of 
buying forage on the way, where it was not otherwise to be had, and 
for satisfying the guides, getting horses, and the like. And here 
they constituted the journey, as they call it, viz., they named cap- 
tains and olficers, to draw us all up, and give the command in case 
of an attack, and gave every one their turn of command : nor was 
this forming us into order any more than what we found needful 
upon the way, as shall be observed in its place. 

The road all on this side of the country is vei’y populous, and is 
full of potters and earth-makers, that is to say, people that tempered 
the earth for the China ware ; and, as I was coming along, our 
Portugal pilot, who had always something or other to say to make 
us merry, came sneering to me, and told me he would show me the 
greatest rarity in all the country, and that I should have this to say 
of China, after all the ill-humoured things I had said of it, that I had 
seen one thing which was not to be seen in all the world beside. I 
was very importunate to know what it was. At last he told me it was 
a gentleman’s house built all with China ware. Well, says I, are not 
the materials of their building the product of their own country ; 
and so it is all China ware, is not it? No, no, says he, I mean it is 
a house all made of China ware, such as you call it in England ; 
or, as it is called in our country, Porcelain. Well, says I, such a 
thing may be ; how big is it ? Can we carry it in a box upon a 
camel? If we can, we will buy it. Upon a camel! says the old 
pilot, holding up both his hands, why there is a family of thirty 
people lives in it. 

I was then curious indeed to see it, and when I came to it, it was 
nothing but this : it was a timber-house, or a house built, as we call 
it in England, with lath and plaster, but all the plastering was really 
China ware, that is to say, it was plastered with the earth that 
makes China ware. 

The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was glazed, and looked 
very well, perfect white, and painted with blue figures, as the large 
China ware in England is painted, and hard, as if it had been burnt. 
As to the inside, all the walls, instead of wainscoat, were lined tip 
mih hardened and painied tiles, Hke the little square tiles we call 
galley-tiles in England, all made of the finest China, and the figure s 
exceeding fine indeed, with extraordinary variety of colours mixed 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 439 

with gold, many tiles making but one figure, but joined so artificially, 
the mortar being made of the same earth, that it was very hard to 
see where the tiles met. The floors of the rooms were of the same 
composition, and as hard as the earthen floors we have in use 
in several parts of England, especially Lincolnshire, Nottingham- 
shire, Leicestershire, etc,, as hard as a stone, and smooth, but not 
burnt and painted, exc^ept some smaller rooms, like closets, which 
were all as it were paved with the same tile ; the ceilings, and in a 
word, all the plastering work in the whole house were of the same 
earth ; and after all, the roof was covered with tiles of the same, but 
of a deep shining black. 

This was a China warehouse indeed, truly and literally to bo 
called so ; and had I not been upon the journey, I could have stayed 
some days to see and examine the particulais of it; they told mo 
there were fountains and fish-ponds in the garden, all paved at the 
bottom and sides with the same, and fine statues set up in rows on 
the walks, entirely formed of the porcelain earth, and burnt whole. 

As this is one of the singularities of China, so they may be allowed 
to excel in it ; but I am very sure they excel in their accounts of it ; 
for they told mo such incredible things of their performance in 
crockery- ware, for such it is, that I care not to relate, as knowing it 
could not be true ; they told me in particiilai' of one workman that 
made a ship with all its tackle, and masts, and sails, in earthenware, 
big enough to carry fifty men. If he had told me he launched it, 
and made a voyage to Japan in it, I might have said something to it 
indeed ; but as it was, I knew the whole of the story, which was in 
short, asking pai'don for the word, that the fellow lied ; so I smiled 
and said nothing to it. 

This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan, for which 
the leader of it for tlic day fined me about the value of three shillings, 
and told me, if it had been three days’ journey without the wall, as 
it was three days within, he must have fined me four times as much, 
and made me ask pardon the next council day ; so I promised to bo 
more orderly ; for indeed I found afterward the orders made for 
keeping all together, were absolutely necessary for our common 
safety. 

In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a 
fortification against the Tartars ; and a very great work it is, going 
over hills and mountains in a needless track, where the rocks are 
impassable, and the precipices such as no enemy could possibly 
enter, or indeed climb up, or where if they did, no wall could hinder 
them. They tell us, its length is near a thousand English miles, 
but that the country is five hundred in a straight measured line, 
which the wall bounds, without measuring the windings and turn- 
ings it takes. It is about four fathom high, and as many thick in 
some places. 

I stood still an hour or thereabout, without trespassing our orders, 




what do you mean by that ? Why, you speak what looks white this 
way, and black that way ; gay one way, and dull another way ; you 
tell him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars? You tell me by that, 
it is good for nothing but to keep out Tartars, or it will keep out 
none but Tartars. I understand you, Seignior Inglese, I understand 
you, says he, but Seignior Chinese understood you his own way. 

^Vell, says I, Seignior, do you think it would stand out an army of 
our country people, with a good train of artillery ; or our engineers, 





THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 441 


with two companies of miners ; would not they hatter it down in 
ten days, that an army might enter in battalia, or blow it u]3 in the 
air, foundation and all, that there should be no sign of it left ? Ah, 
ah, says he, I know that. The Chinese wanted mightily to know 
what I said, and I gave him leave to tell him a few days after, for we 
were then almost out of their country, and he was to leave us in a 
little time afterward ; but when he knew what I had said, he was 
dumb all the rest of the way, and we heard no more of his line story 
of the Chinese power and greatness, while he stayed^ 

After we had passed this mighty nothing called a wall, something 
like the Piets* wall, so famous in Northumberland, and built by the 
Romans, we began to find the country thinly inhabited, and the 
people rather confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as being 
subject to the inroads and depredations of the Tartars, who rob in 
great armies, and therefore are not to be resisted by the naked inha- 
bitants of an open country^ 

And here I began to find the necessity of keeping together in a 
caravan as we travelled ; for we saw several troops of Tartars 
roving about ; but when I came to see them distinctly, I wondered 
more that the Chinese empire could be conquered by such con- 
temptible fellows; for they are a mere horde or crowd of wild 
fellows, keeping no order, and understanding no discipline, or 
manner of fight. 

Their horses are poor lean starved creatures, taught nothing, and 
fit for nothing ; and this we said, the first day we saw them, which 
was after we entered the wilder part of the country ; our leader for 
the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as they 
call it ; and w^hat was this, but hunting of sheep ; however, it may 
be called hunting too ; for the creatures are the wildest and swiftest 
of foot that ever I saw of their kind ; only they will not run a great 
way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the chase ; for they 
appear generally thirty or forty in a flock, and like true sheep, 
always keep together when they fly. 

In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet with 
about forty Tartars ; whether they were hunting mutton as we were, 
or whether they looked for another kind of prey, I know not ; but 
as soon as they saw us, one of them blew a kind of a horn very loud, 
but with a barbarous sound, that I had never heard before, and by 
the way, never care to hear again; we all supposed this was to 
call their friends about them, and so it was ; for in less than half 
a quarter of an hour, a troop of forty or fifty more appeared, at about 
a mile distance, but our work was over first, as it happened. 

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be amongst us, 
and as soon as he heard the horn, he told us in short, that we had 
nothing to do, but to charge them immediately without loss of time ; 
and drawing us up in a line, he asked if we were resolved ? We told 
him we were ready to follow him ; so we rode directly up to them ; 



442 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

they stood gazing at us like a mere crowd, drawn up in no order, 
nor showing the face of any order at all ; but as soon as they saw 
us advance, they let fiy their arrows, which however missed us very 
happily ; it seems they mistook not their aim, but their distance ; 
for their arrows all fell a little short of us, but with so true an aim, 
that had we been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had 
several men wounded, if not killed. 

Immediately w^e halted, and though it was at a great distance, we 



TliK 'JAUTAU.i. 


fired, and sent them leaden bullets for wooden arrows, following 
our shot full gallop, to fall in among them sword in hand, for so 
our bold Scot that led us directed ; ho was indeed but a merchant, 
but he behaved with that vigour and bravery on this occasion, and 
yet, with such a cool courage too, that I never saw any man in 
action fitter for command. As soon as we came up to them, we 
fired our pistols in their faces, and then drew ; but they fled in the 
greatest confusion imaginable ; the only stand any of them made, 
was on our right, where three of them stood, and by signs called 


THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 443 

tho rest to come back to them, having a kind of scimitar in their 
hands, and their bows hanging at their backs. Our brave com- 
mander, without asking anybody to follow him, gallops up close to 
them, and with his fusee knocks one of them off his horse, killed 
the second with his pistol, and the third ran away, and thus ended 
our fight ; but we had this misfortune attending it, viz., tliat all 
our mutton that we liad in chase, got away. We had not a man 
killed or hurt ; but as for the Tartars, there was about five of them 
killed ; who were wounded, we knew not ; but this we knew, that 
the other party was so frighted with the noise of our guns, that they 
made off, and never made any attempt upon us. 

We were all this while in the Chinese dominion, and therefore the 
Tartars were not so bold as afterwards ; but in about five days wo 
entered a vast great wild desert, which held us three days and 
nights’ march ; and we were obliged to carry our water with us in 
great leather bottles, and to encamp all night, just as I have heard 
they do in the desert of Arabia. 

1 asked whose dominion this was in, and they told me, this was a 
kind of border, that might be called No Man’s Land ; being a part of 
tho Great Karakathie, or Grand Tartary, but that however it was all 
reckoned to China ; but that there was no care taken here, to pre- 
serve it from the inroads of thieves, and therefore it was reckoned 
tlie worst desert in the whole world ; though we were to go over 
some much larger. 

In passing tliis wilderness, which I confess was at the first very 
frightful to me, we saw two or three times little parties of tho 
Tartars, but they seemed to be upon their own affairs, and to have 
no design upon us. 

Once however, a party of them came so near, as to stand and gaze 
at us ; whether it was to consider what they should do, whether 
attack us, or not attack us, that wo knew not ; but when we were 
passed at some distance by them, we made a rear-guard of forty 
men, and stood ready for them, letting the caravan pass half a mile, 
or thereabouts, before us ; but after a while they marched off, only 
we found they saluted us with five arrows at their parting ; one of 
which wounded a horse so, that it disabled him ; and we left him the 
next day, poor creature, in great need of a good farrier ; we suppose 
they might shoot more arrows, which might fall short of us, but we 
saw no more arrows or Tartars that time. 

We travelled near a month after this, the ways being not so good 
as at first, though still in the dominions of the Emperor of China, 
but lay for the most part in villages, some of which were fortified, 
because of the incursions of the Tartars. When we came to one of 
these towns (it was about two days and a half’s journey before we 
were to come to the city Naum), 1 wanted to buy a camel, of which 
there are plenty to be sold all the way upon that road, and of horses 
also, such as they are, because so many caravans coming that way, 



444 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


they are often wanted. The person that I spoke to to get me a 
camel, would have gone and ^fetched it for me, but I like a fool must 
be officious, and go myself along with him. The place was about two 
miles out of the village, where, it seems, they kept the camels and 
horses feeding under a guard. 

I walked it on foot with my old pilot, being very desirous, for-^ 
^ooth, of a little variety. When we came to the place, it was a low 



CRUSOIi: WOUKUKD. 

marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry, with- 
out mortar or earth among it, like a park, with a little guard of 
Chinese soldiers at the door. Having bought a camel, and agreed 
for the price, I came away, and the Chinese man that went with me, 
led the camel; when on a sudden came up five Tartars on horseback; 
two of them seized the fellow, and took the camel from him, while the 
other three stepped up to me, and my old pilot, seeing us as it were 





the life and adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE, 445 

unarmed, for I had no weapon about me but my sword, which could 
but ill defend mo against three horsemen ; the first that came up, 
stopped short upon my drawing my sword (for they are arrant 
cowards) ; but a second coming upon my left, gave me a blow on the 
head, which I never felt till afterward, and wondered when I came 
to myself, what was the ^natter with me, and where I was, for he 
laid me fiat on the ground; but my never-failing old pilot, the 
Portuguese (so Providence unlooked-for directs deliverances from 
dangers, which to us are unforeseen), had a pistol in his pocket, whicli 
I knew nothing of, nor the Tartars ; neither if they had, 1 suppose 
they would not have attacked us. But cowards are always boldest 
when there is no danger. 

The old man seeing me down, with a bold heart stepped up to the 
fellow that had struck me, and laying hold of his arm with one hand, 
and pulling him down by main force a little towards him with the 
other, shot him into the head, and laid him dead upon the spot ; ho 
then immediately stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I said, 
and before he could come forward again (for it was all done as it 
were in a moment), mado a blow at him with a scimitar which ho 
always wore, but missing the man, cut his horse into the side of his 
head, cut one of his ears off by the root, and a great slice down the 
side of his face ; the poor beast, enraged with the wound, was no 
more to be governed by his rider, though the fellow sat well enough 
too ; but away he fiew, and carried him quite out of the pilot’s reach, 
and at some distance rising up on his hind legs, threw down the 
Tartar and fell upon him. 

In this interval the poor Chinese came in who had lost the camel, 
but he had no weapon; however, seeing the Tartar down, and his 
horse fallen upon him, away he runs to him, and seizing upon an 
ugly ill-favoured weapon ho had by his side, something like a pole- 
axe, but not a pole-axe neither, he wrenched it from him, and made 
shift to knock his Tartarian brains out with it. But my old man 
had the third Tartar to deal with still, and seeing ho did not fly, as 
he expected, nor come on to fight him, as he apprehended, but stand 
stock still, the old man stood still too, and falls to work with his 
tackle to charge his pistol again ; but as soon as the Tartar saw the 
pistol, whether he supposed it to be the same or another, I know not, 
but away he scoured, and left my pilot, my champion I called him 
afterward, a complete victory. 

By this time I was a little awake, for I thought when first I began 
to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep ; but as I said above, I 
wondered where I was, how I came upon the ground, and what was 
the matter. In a word, a few moments after, as sense returned, I 
felt pain, though I did not know where ; I clapped my hand to my 
fiead, and took it away bloody ; then I felt my head ache, and then in 
another moment memory returned, and everything was present to 
tne again. 



446 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBTNSON CRUSOE. 


I jumped up upon my feet instantly, and got hold of my sword, 
but no enemies in view. I » found a Tartar lie dead and his horse 
standing very quietly by him ; and looking farther, I saw my cham- 
pion and deliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese had done, 
coming back with his hanger in his hand ; the old man seeing mo 
on my feet, came running to me and embraced me with a great deal 
of joy, being afraid before that I had been killed, and seeing me 
bloody, would see how I was hurt, but it was not much, only what 
we call a broken head ; neither did I afterwards find any great in- 
convenience from the blow, other than the place which was hurb, 
and which was well again in two or three days. 

We made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we lost a 
camel, and gained a horse ; but that which was remarkable, when 
we came back to the village the man demanded to be paid for the 
camel. I disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing before the 
Chinese judge of the place ; that is to say, in English, we went 
before a justice of the peace. Give him his duo, he acted with a 
great deal of prudence and impartiality ; and having heard botli 
sides, he gravely asked the Chinese man that went with mo to buy 
the camel, whose servant he was? I am no servant, says ho, but 
went with the stranger. At whose request? says the justice. At 
the stranger’s request, says he. Why, then, says the justice, you 
were the stranger’s servant for the time, and the camel being 
delivered to his servant, it was delivered to him, and he must pay 
for it. 

I confess the thing was so clear that I had not a word to say ; but 
admiring to see such just reasoning upon the consequence, and so 
accurate stating the cause, I paid willingly for the camel, and sent 
for another ; but you may observe, I sent for it, I did not go to fetch 
it myself any more ; I had enough of that. 

The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese empire ; they call it 
fortified, and so it is, as fortifications go there ; for this I will venture 
to affirm, that all the Tartars in Karakathie, which I believe are 
some millions, could not batter down the walls with their bows and 
arrows ; but to call it strong, if it were attacked with cannon, would 
be to make those who understand it laugh at you. 

We wanted, as I have said, above two days* journey of this city, 
when messengers were sent express to every part of the road to 
tell all travellers and caravans to halt till they had a guard sent for 
them ; for that an unusual body of Tartars, making ten thousand in 
all, had appeared in the way, about thirty miles beyond the city. 

This was very bad news to travellers ; however, it was carefully 
done of the governor, and we were very glad to hear that we should 
have a guard ; accordingly, two days after, we had two hundred 
soldiers sent us from a garrison of the Chinese, on our left, and three 
hundred more from the city of Naum, and with those we advanced 
boldly. The three hundred soldiers from Naum marched in our 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 447 


front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men on each side of our 
camels with our baggage, and the whole caravan in the centre ; in 
lihis order, and well prepared for battle, we thought ourselves a 
match for the whole ten thousand Mongol Tartars, if they had 
appeared ; but the next day when they did appear, it was quite 
another thing. 

It was early in the morning, when marching from a little well- 
situated town called Changu, we had a river to pass, where we were 
obliged to ferry ; and had the Tartars had any intelligence, then had 
been the time to have attacked us, when, the caravan beii]g over, 
the rear-guard was behind ; but they did not appear. 

About three hours after, when we were entered upon a desert of 
about fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold, by a cloud of dust they 
raised, we saw an enemy was at hand, and they were at hand indeed, 
for they came on upon the spur. 

The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big the day 
before, began to stagger, and the soldiers frequently looked behind 
them, which is a certain sign in a soldier, that he is just ready to run 
away ; my old pilot was of my mind ; and being near me, he called 
out. Seignior Inglese, says ho, those fellows must be encouraged, or 
they will ruin us all ; for if the Tartars come on, they will never 
stand it. I am of your mind, said I, but what course must bo done? 
Done ! says he, let fifty of our men advance, and flank them on each 
wing, and encourage them, and they will fight like brave fellows in 
brave company ; but without, they will every man turn his back ; 
immediately I rode up to our leader, and told him, who was exactly 
of our mind ; and accordingly, fifty of us marched to the right wing, 
and fifty to the left, and the rest made a line of rescue ; and so we 
marched, leaving the last two hundred men to make another body 
by themselves, and to guard the camels ; only that if need were, they 
should send a hundred men, to assist the last fifty. 

In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable company they 
were ; how many, we could not tell, but ten thousand we thought 
was the least. A party of them came on first, and viewed our 
posture, traversing the ground in the front of our line ; and as we 
found them within gun-shot, our leader ordered the two wings to 
advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing with their shot, 
which was done ; but they went off, and I suppose back to give an 
account of the reception they were like to meet with : and indeed 
that salute clogged their stomach, for they immediately halted, stood 
awhile to consider of it, and wheeling off to the left, they gave over 
the design, and said no more to us for that time ; which was very 
agreeable to our circumstances, which were but very indifferent for a 
battle with such a number. 

Two days after this, we came to the city Naun, or Naum ; we 
thanked the governor for his care for us, and collected to the value 
of a hundred crowns, or thereabouts, which we gave to the soldiers 



448 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


sent to guard us : and here wo rested one day. This is a garrison 
indeed, and there were niuQ hundred soldiers kept here; but the 
reason of it was, that forjnerly the Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to 
them than they do now, the Muscovites having abandoned that part 
of the country (which lies from this city west, for about two hundred 
miles) as desolate and unfit for use ; and more especially, being so 
very remote, and so difficult to send troops thither for its defence ; 
for we had yet above two thousand miles to Muscovy, properly so 
called. 

After this, wo i;)assed several great rivers, and two dreadful deserts, 
one of which we were sixteen days passing over, and which, as I 
said, was to be called No Man’s Land ; and on the 13th of April we 
came to the frontiers of the Muscovite dominions : I think the lirst 
city, or town, or fortress, whatever it might be called, tliat belonged 
to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Argun, being on the west side of 
the Kiver Argun. 

I could not but discover an infinite satisfaction, that I was soon 
arrived in, as I called it, a Christian country, or at least in a country 
governed by Christians ; for though the Muscovites do, in my opinion, 
but just deserve the name of Christians, yet such they pretend to bo, 
and are very devout in their way. It would certainly occur to any 
man who travels the world as I have done, and who had any power 
of reflection; I say, it would occur to him, to reflect what a blessing 
it, is to be brought into the world, where tlie name of God, and of a 
Redeemer, is known, worshipped and adored , and not where the 
people, given up by Heaven to strong delusions, worship the devil, 
and prostrate themselves to stocks and stones, worship monsters, 
elements, horrible shaped animals, and statues, or images of monsters: 
not a town or city we passed through, but liad their pagodas, their 
idols, and their temples, and ignorant people worshii)ping even the 
works of their own hands. 

Now we came where at least a face of the Christian worship ap- 
peared, where the knee was bowed to Jesus ; and whether ignorantly 
or nob, yet the Christian religion was owned, and the name of the 
true God was called upon, and adored ; and it made the very recesses 
of my soul rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave Scots merchant 1 
mentioned above, with my first acknowledgment of this ; and taking 
him by the hand, I said to him, Blessed be God, we are once again 
come among Christians. He smiled, and answered, Do not rejoice 
too soon, countryman, these Muscovites are but an odd sort of 
Christians ; and but for the name of it, you may see very little of the 
substance, for some months farther of our journey. 

Well, says I, but still it is better than pa.L anism. Why, I’ll tell 
you, says he, except the Russian soldiers in garrisons, and a few of 
the inhabitants of the cities upon the road, all the rest of this 
country, for above a thousand miles farther, is inhabited by the worst 
and most ignorant of pagans : and so indeed we found it. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRDSOE. 449 

We wore now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth, if I 
understand anything of the surface of the globe, that is to be found 
in any part of the earth ; we had at least twelfe hundred miles to 
the sea, eastward ; we had at least two thousand to the bottom of 
the Baltic sea, westward ; and above three thousand miles, if we left 
that sea, and went on west to the Britisli and French channels. We 
had full five thousand -miles to the Indian, or Persian sea, south ; 
and about eight hundred miles to the frozen sea, north ; nay, if 
some people may bo believed, there might be no sea north-east, till 
we came round the pole, and consequently into the north-west, and 
so had a continent of land into America, the Lord knows where, 
though I could give some reasons why I believe that to be a mistake. 

As we entered into the Muscovite dominions, a good while before 
we came to any considerable towns, we had noticing to observe there 
but this ; first, that all the rivers that run to the east, as I under- 
stood by the charts, which some in our caravan had with them — it 
was plain all those rivers ran into the great river Yamour, or 
Gammour. This river, by the natural course of it, must run into the 
east sea, or Chinese ocean. The story tliey tell us, that the mouth 
of this river is choked up with bull-rushes, of a monstrous growth, 
viz., three foot about, and twenty or thirty foot high, I must be 
allowed to say, I believe nothing of ; but as its navigation is of no 
use, because there is no trade that way, the Tartars, to whom alone 
it belongs, dealing in nothing but cattle, so nobody that ever I heard 
of has been curious enough, either to go down to the mouth of it in 
boats, or come up from the mouth of it in ships ; but this is certain, 
that this river running due east, in the latitude of about 50 degrees, 
carries a vast concourse of rivers along with it, and finds an ocean to 
empty itself in that latitude ; so we are sure of sea there. 

Some leagues to the north of this river, there are several consider- 
able rivers, whose streams run as due north as the Yamour runs 
east, and these are all found to join their waters with the great river 
Tartarus, named so from the northernmost nations of the Mongol 
Tartars, who, the Chinese say, were the first Tartars in the world ; 
and who, as our geographers allege, are the Gog and Magog mentioned 
in sacred story. 

These rivers running all northward, as well as all the other rivers 
I am yet to speak of, make it evident that the northern ocean bounds 
the land also on that side ; so that it does not seem rational in the 
least to think that the land can extend itself to join with America on 
that side, or that there is not a communication between the northern 
and the eastern ocean ; but of this I shall say no more, it was my 
observation at that time, and therefore I take notice of it in this 
place. We now advanced from the river Arguna by easy and 
moderate journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care the 
Czar of Muscovy has taken to have cities and towns built in as 
many places as are possible to place them, where his soldiers keep 



450 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

garrison something like the stationary soldiers placed by the Koniana 
in the remotest countries of their empire, some of which I had read 
particularly were placed in Britain for the security of commerce, and 
for the lodging travellers ; and thus it was here ; for wherever we 
came, though at these towns and stations the garrisons and governor 
were Eussians, and professed Christians, yet the inhabitants of the 
country were mere pagans, sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the 
sun, moon, and stars, or all the host of heaven, and not only so, 
but were of all the heathens and pagans that ever I met with, the 
most barbarous, except only that they did not eat man*s flesh, as our 
savages of America did. 

Some instances of this we met with in the country between Arguna, 
where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city of Tartars and 
Eussians together, called Nortzinskoy, in which is a continued desert 
or forest, which cost us twenty days to travel over it ; in a village 
near the last of those places I had the curiosity to go and see their 
way of living, which is most brutish and insufferable. They had, I 
suppose, a great sacrifice that day, for there stood out upon an old 
stump of a tree, an idol made of wood, frightful as can be made ; it 
had a h6ad certainly not so much as resembling any creature that 
the world ever saw ; ears as big as goat*s horns, and as high ; eyes 
as big as a crown piece ; a nose like a crooked ram's horn, and a 
mouth extended four cornered, like that of a lion, with horrible teeth, 
hooked like a parrot’s under bill ; it was dressed up in the filthiest 
manner that you could suppose ; its upper garment was of sheep- 
skins, with the wool outward, a great Tartar bonnet on the head, 
with two horns growing through it ; it was about eight foot high, yet 
had no feet or legs, or any other proportion of parts. 

This scare-crow was set up at the outer side of the village, and 
when I eame near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures, 
whether men or women, I could not tell, for they make no distinction 
by their habits, either of body or head. These lay all flat on the 
ground, round this formidable block of shapeless wood. I saw no 
motion among them any more than if they had been all logs of wood 
like the idol, and at first, really thought they had been so ; but when 
I came a little nearer, they started up upon their feet, and raised a 
howling cry, as if it had been so many deep-mouthed hounds, and 
walked away as if they were displeased at our disturbing them. 
A little way off from the idol, and at the door of that tent or hut, 
made all of sheep-skins and cow-skins, dried, stood three butchers, 
I thought they were such ; when I came nearer to them, I found they 
had long knives in their hands, and in the middle of the tent appeared 
three sheep killed, and one young bullock or steer. These, it seems, 
were sacrifices to that senseless log of an idol, and these three men, 
priests belonging to it ; and the seventeen prostrated wretches were 
the people who brought the offering, and were making their prayers 
to that stock. 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 451 

I confess I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish worship 
of a hobgoblin, than ever I was at anything in my life ; to see God’s 
most glorious and best creature, to whom He had granted so many 
advantages, even by creation, above the rest of the works of His 
hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and that soul adorned with 
faculties and capacities adapted both to honour his Maker and be 
Honoured by Him, sunk and degenerated to a degree so more than 
stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothing, a mere imaginary 
object dressed up by themselves, and made terrible to themselves by 
their own contrivance ; adorned only with clouts and rags ; the 
evil spirit envying (to his Maker) the homage and adoration of His 
creatures, had deluded them into such gross, surfeiting, sordid, 
and brutish things, as one would think should shock Nature itself. 

But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of thoughts? 
thus it was, and I saw it before my eyes, and there was no room to 
wonder at it, or think it impossible ; all my admiration turned to 
rage, and I rid up to the image, or monster, call it what you will, 
and with my sword cut the bonnet that was on its head in two in the 
middle, so that it hung down by one of the horns ; and one of our 
men that was with me took hold of the sheep-skin that covered it, 
and pulled at it, when behold a most hideous outcry and howling run 
through the village, and two or three hundred people came about my 
ears, so that I was glad to scour for it ; for we saw some had bows 
and arrows ; but I resolved from that moment to visit them again. 

Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which was about 
four miles off, in order to provide some horses which they wanted, 
several of the horses having been lamed, and jaded with the badness 
of the way and long march over the last desert ; so we had some 
leisure here to put my design in execution. I communicated my 
project to the Scots merchant of Moscow, of whose courage I had 
had sufficient testimony, as above. I told him what I had seen, and 
with what indignation I had since thought that human nature could 
be so degenerate. I told him I was resolved, if I could get but four 
or five men well armed to go with me, I was resolved to go and 
destroy that vile, abominable idol, and let them see that it had no 
power to help itself, and consequently could not be an object of 
worship, or be prayed to, much less help them that offered sacrifices 
to it. 

He laughed at me ; says he. Your zeal may be good, but what do 
you propose to yourself by it ? Propose, said I, to vindicate the 
honour of God. But how will it vindicate the honour of God ? said 
he. While the people will not be able to know what you mean by 
it, unless you could speak to them and tell them so, and then they 
will fight you, and beat you too. I’ll assure you, for they are desperate 
fellows, and that especially in defence of their idolatry. Can we 
not, said I, do it in the night, and then leave them the reasons and 
•causes in writing in their own language? Writing! said he, why 



452 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


there is not a man in five nations of them that knows anything of a 
letter, or how to read a word in any language, or in their own. 
Wretched ignorance ! said I to him ; however, I have a great mind 
to do it ; perhaps Nature may draw inferences from it to them, to 
let them see how brutish they are, to worship such horrid things. 
Look you, sir, said he, if your zeal prompts you to it so warmly, you 
must do it ; but in the next place I would have you consider, these 
wild nations of people are subjected by force to the Czar of Muscovy's 
dominion, and if you do this, it is ten to one but they will come by 
thousands to the Governor of Nortsinskoy, and complain, and demand 
satisfaction ; and if he cannot give them satisfaction, it is ten to one 
but they revolt, and will occasion a new war with all the Tartars in 
the country. 

This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for a while ; but I 
harped upon tlie same string still, and all that day I was uneasy to 
put my project in execution. Towards the evening the Scots merchant 
met me by accident in our walk about the town, and desired to speak 
with me. I believe, said he, I have put you ofi of your good design ; 
I have been a little concerned about it since, for I abhor the idol and 
the idolatry as nauch as you can do. Truly, says I, you have put it 
off a little as to the execution of it, but you have not put it all out 
of my thoughts, and I believe I shall doit still before I quit this place, 
though I were to be delivered up to them for satisfaction. No, no, 
says he, God forbid they should deliver you up to such a crew of 
noLonsters ; they shall not do that neither, that would be murdering 
you indeed. Why, says I, how would they use mo ? Use you ! says 
he ; I’ll tell you how they served a poor Eussian, who affronted them 
in their worship just as you did, and who they took prisoner. After 
they had lamed him with an arrow that he could not run away, they 
took him and stripped him stark naked, and set him up on the top of 
the idol monster, and stood all around him, and shot as many arrows 
into him as would stick over his whole body, and then they burnt 
him, and all the arrows sticking in him, as a sacrifice to the idol. 
And was this the same idol? Yes, says he, the very same. Well, 
says I, 111 tell you a story. So I related the story of our men at 
Madagascar, and how they burnt and sacked the village there, and 
killed man, woman, and child, for their murdering one of our men, 
just as it is related before ; and when I had done, I added, that I 
thought we ought to do so to this village. 

He listened veiy attentively to the story ; but when I talked of 
doing so to that village, says he, You mistake very much, it was not 
this village, it was almost a hundred mile from this place ; but it was 
the same idol, for they carry him about in procession all over the 
country. Well, then, says I, then that idol ought to be punished for 
it ; and it shall, says I, if I live this night out. 

In a word, finding me resolute, he liked the design, and told me 
I should not go alone, but he would go with me, and bring a stout 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 453 


fellow, one of his countrymen, to go also with us ; and one, says he, 
as famous for his zeal as you can desire any one to be. In a word, 
he brought mo his comrade, a Scotsman, whom he called Captain 
Eichardson, and I gave him a full account of what I had seen ; and, 
in a word, of what I intended ; and he told me readily he would go 
with me if it cost him liisdife ; so we agreed to go only us three. I 
had, indeed, proposed it to my partner, but he declined it ; ho said 
he was ready to assist me to the utmost, and upon all occasions for 
my defence ; but that this was an adventure quite out of his way. 
So, I say, we resolved upon our work only us three and my man- 
servant, and to put it in execution that night about midnight, with 
all the secrecy imaginable. 

However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to delay it till 
the next night, because the caravan being to set forward in the 
morning, we supposed the governor could not pretend to give them 
any satisfaction upon us when we were out of his power. The Scots 
merchant, as steady in his resolution for the enterprise as bold in 
executing, brought me a Tartarus robe or gown of the sheep-skins, 
and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and had provided the same for 
himself and his countrymen, that the people, if they saw us, should 
not be able to determine who we were. 

All the first night we spent in mixing up some combustible matter 
with aqua-vitoo, gunpowder, and such other materials as we could 
get, and, having a good quantity of tar in a little pot, about an hour 
after night we set out upon our expedition. 

We came to the place about eleven o’clock at night, and found that 
the people had not the least jealousy of danger attending their idol. 
The night was cloudy, yet the moon gave us light enough to see that 
the idol stood just in the same posture and place that it did before. 
The people seemed to be all at their rest, only, that in the great hut, 
or tent, as wo called it, where we saw the three priests, whom we 
mistook for butchers, we saw a light, and going up close to the door, 
we heard people talking, as if there were five or six of them ; we 
concluded, therefore, that if we set the wild-fire to the idol, these 
men would come out immediately, and run up to the place to rescue 
it from the destruction that we intended for it, and what to do with 
them we knew not. Once we thought of carrying it away and setting 
fire to it at a distance ; but when we came to handle it, we found it 
too bulky for our carriage, so we were at a loss again. The second 
Scotsman was for setting fire to the tent or hut, and knocking the 
creatures that were there on the head when they came out , but I 
could not join with that ; I was against Idlling them, if 
possible to be avoided. Well then, said the Scots merchant, 1 11 tell 
you what we will do : we will try to take them prisoners, Ue their 
hands behind them, and make them stand still, and see , their idol 


destroyed. 

As it happened, we had twine or 


packthread enough about us, 



454 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

which was used to tie our fireworks together; so we resolved to 
attack these people first, and with as little noise as we could. The 
first thing we did, we knocked at the door, which issued just as we 
desired it ; for one of their idol priests came to the door. We imme- 
diately seized upon him, stopped his mouth, and tied his hands 
behind him, and led him to the idol, where we gagged him, that ho 
might not make a noise ; tied his feet also together, and left him on 
the ground. 

'Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another would 
come out to see what the matter was ; but we waited so long till tlie 
third man came back to us; and then nobody coming out, we 
knocked again gently, and immediately out came two more, and we 
served them just in the same manner, but were obliged to go all with 
them, and lay them down by the idol some distance from one 
another ; when going back, we found two more were come out to the 
door, and a third more stood behind them within the door ; we 
seized the two, and immediately tied them, when the third stepping 
hack and crying out, my Scots merchant went in after him, and 
taking out a composition we had made, that would only smoke and 
stink, he set fire to it, and throw' it in among them. By that time the 
other Scotsman and my man taking charge of the two men who were 
already bound, and tied together also by the arm, led them away to 
the idol, and loft them there, to see if tJieir idol would reheve them, 
makiTig haste back to us. 

WJicJi the fuse we had thrown in had filled the hut with so much 
smoke that they were almost suffocated, we then threw in a small 
leather bag of another kind, which flamed like a candle, and 
following it in, we found there was but four people left, who, it seems, 
were two men and two women; and, as we supposed, had been 
about some of their diabolic sacrifices ; they appeared, in short, 
frighted to death, at least, so as to sit trembling and stupid, and not 
able to speak neither, for the smoke. 

In a word, we took them, bound them as we had the other, and 
all without any noise : I should have said we brought them out of 
the house or hut first; for indeed we were not able to bear tbe 
smoke any more than they were. When we had done this, we 
carried them all together to the idol : when we came thei e, we fell 
to work with him ; and first we daubed him all over, and his robes 
also, with tar and such other stuff as we had, which was tallow 
mixed with brimstone; then we stopped his eyes, and ears, and 
mouth full of gunpowder, and then we wrapped up a great piece of 
wildfire in his bonnet, and then sticking all the combustibles we had 
brought with us upon him, we looked about to see if we could find 
anything else to help to burn him, when my man remembered tliat 
by the tent or hut where the men were, there lay a heap of dry 
forage, whether straw or rushes I do not remember ; away he and 
one of the Scotsmen run, and fetched their arms full of that. When 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 455 

we had done this, wo took all our prisoners, and brought them, 
having untied their feet and ungagged their mouths, and made them 
stand up, and set them just before their monstrous idol, and then set 
fire to the whole. 

We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts, till the 
powder in the eyes, and mouth, and cars of the idol blew up, and 
we could perceive had split and deformed the shape ; and, in a word, 
till we saw it burn into a mere block or log of wood : and then 'i 
setting the dry forage to it, we found it would be quite consumed, 
when we began to think of going away ; but the Scotsman said no, 1 
we must not go, for these poor deluded wretches will all throw them- 
selves into the fire, and burn themselves with the idol ; so we 
resolved to stay till the forage was burnt down too, and then we 
came away and left them. 

In the morning w^e appeared among our fellow-travellers exceed- 
ing busy, in getting ready for our journey ; nor could any man suggest 
that we had been anywhere but in our beds, as travellers might be 
supposed to be, to fit themselves for the fatigues of that day *8 journey. 

But it did not end so ; the next day came a great multitude of the 
country people, not only of this village, but of a hundred more, for 
aught I know, to the town-gates, and in a most outrageous manner 
demanded satisfaction of the Eussiau governor, for the insulting tbclr 
priests, ajid burning their great Cham-Chi-Tliaungu ; such a hard 
name they gave the monstrous creature they worshipped ; the people 
of Nortsinskoy were at first in a great consternation, tor they said 
the Tartars were no less than thirty thousand, and in aiew days more 
would be one hundred thousand strong. 

The Eussian governor sent out messengers to appease them, and 
gave them all the good words imaginable. He assured them he 
knew nothing of it, and that there had not a soul of his garrison been 
abroad : that it could not be from anybody there ; and if they would 
let him know who it was, they should be exemplarily punished. 
They returned haughtily, that all the country reverenced the great 
Cham-Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would have 
decreed to offer violence to his image but some Christian miscreant, 
so they called them, it seems ; and they therefore denounced war 
against him, and all the Eussians, who, they said, were miscreants 
and Christians. 

The governor still patient, and unwilling to make a breach, or to 
have any cause of war alleged to be given by him, the Czar having 
straitly charged them to treat the conquered country with gentleness 
and civility, gave them still all the good words he could ; at last hq 
told them there was a caravan gone towards Eussia that mornings 
and perhaps it was some of them who had done them this injury 
and that if they would be satisfied with that, he would send after 
them, to inquire into it. This seemed to appease them a little ; and: 
accordingly the governor sent after us, and gave us a particular 



456 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

account how the thing was ; intimating withal, that if any in our 
caravan had done it, they should make their escape; but that whether 
they had done it or no, we sKoufd make all the haste forward that 
was possible ; and that in the meantime he would keep them in play 
as long as ho could. 

This was very friendly in the governor ; however, when it came to 
the caravan, there was nobody knew anything of the matter. And 
as for us that were guilty, we wore the least of all suspected ; none 
so much as asked us the question; however, the captain of the 
caravan for the time, took the hint that the governor gave us, and 
wo marched or travelled two days and two nights, without any con- 
siderable stop ; and then we lay at a village called Plothus ; nor did 
we make any long stop here, but hastened on towards Jarawena, an- 
other of the Czar of Muscovy’s colonies, and where vre expected we 
should be safe. But it is to be observed, that here we began, for two* 
or three days’ march, to enter upon the vast nameless desert, of 
which I shall say more in its place ; and wdiich, if we had now been 
upon it, it is more than probable we had been all destroyed. It 
was the second day’s march from Plothus, that by the clouds of dust 
behind us at a great distance, some of our people began to be sensible 
we were pursued ; we had entered the desert, and had passed by a 
great lake called Schaks-Oser, when we perceived a very great body 
of horse appear on the other side of the lake to the north, we travel- 
ling west. We observed they went away west as we did, but had 
supposed we would have taken that side of the lake, whereas, we 
very happily took the south side ; and in two days more, wo saw 
them not, for they, believing we wore still before them, pushed on till 
they came to the Kiver Udda. This is a very great river when it 
passes farther north ; but where we came to it, we found it narrow 
and fordable. 

The third day they either found their mistake, or had intelligence 
of us, and came pouring in upon us, towards the dusk of the evening. 
We had, to our great satisfaction, just pitched upon a place for our 
camp, which was very convenient for the night ; for as we were upon 
a desert, though but at the beginning of it, that was above five 
hundred miles over, we had no towns to lodge at, and indeed ex- 
pected none but the city Jarawena, which we had yet two days’ 
march to ; the desert, however, had some few woods in it on this 
side, and little rivers, which ran all into the great Eiver Udda. It 
was in a narrow strait between two little, but very thick woods, that 
wo pitched our little camp for that night, expecting to be attacked in 
the night. 

Nobody knew but ourselves, what we were pursued for ; but as it 
was usual for the Mongol Tartars to go about in troops in that 
desert, so the caravans always fortify tliemselves every night against 
them, as against armies of robbers ; and it was therefore no new 
thing to be pursued. 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 457 

But wo had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most 
advantageous camp ; for we lay between two woods, with a little 
rivulet runniiig just before our front ; so that we could not be sur- 
rounded, or attacked any way, but in our front or rear ; we took care 
also to make our front as strong as we could, by placing our packs, 
Avith our camels and horsep, all in a line on the inside of the river, 
and felling some trees in our rean 

In this posture wo encampccT for the night, but the enemy was 
upon us before we had finished our situation. They did not come on 
us like thieves as we expected, but sent three messengers to us, to 
demand the men to bo delivered to them, that had abused their 
priests, and burnt their god, Cham-Chi-Thaungu, with fire, that they 
might burn them with fire ; and upon this, they said they would go 
away, and do us no farther harm ; otherwise, they would burn us all 
Avitli fire. Our men looked very blank at this message, and began to 
stare at one another, to see who looked with most guilt in their faces. 
But nobody Avas the word, nobody did it. The loader of the caravan 
sent word, he was well assured, it was not done by any of our camp ; 
that we were peaceable merchants, travelling on our business ; that 
Ave had done no harm to them, or to any one else; and that therefore, 
they must look farther for their enemies Avho liad injured them, for 
we wore not the people ; so desired them not to disturb us, for if 
they did, we should defend ourselves. 

They were far from being satisfied with this for an answer, but a 
great crowd of them came down in the morning by break of day to 
our camp ; but seeing us in such an unaccountable situation, they 
durst come no farther than the brook in our front, whore they stood 
and showed us such a number, that indeed terrified us very much ; 
for those that spoke least of them, spoke of ten thousand. Hero they 
stood and looked at us aAvhilo/and then setting up a great howl, they 
let fly a crowd of arroAA^s among us; but Ave were well enough 
fortified for that, for we sheltered under our baggage, and I do not 
remember that one man of us Avas hurt. 

Some time after this, Ave sec them move a little to our right, and 
expected them on the rear, when a cunning fellow, a Cossack, as they 
call them, of Jarawena, in the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the 
leader of the caravan, said to hiui, ITl go send all these people away 
to Siheilka ; this Avas a city four or five days’ journey at least to the 
south, and rather behind us. So he takes his bow and arrows, and 
getting on horseback, he rides away from our rear directly, as it 
were back to Nortsinskoy; after this, he takes a great circuit 
about, and comes to the army of the Tartars, as if he had been sent 
express to tell them a long story, that the people who had burnt the 
Cham-Chi-Thaungu were gone to Siheilka, with a caravan of mis- 
creants as he called them, that is to say, Christians ; and that they 
had resolved to burn the god Schal-Isar, belonging to the Tongueses. 

As this fellow was himself a mere Tartar, and perfectly spoke 



458 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

their language, he counterfeited so well, that they all took it from 
him, and away they drove in a rnost violent hurry to Siheilka, which 
it seems w^as live days’ journey to the north, and in less than three 
hours they were entirely out of our sight, and we never heard any 
more of them ; and we never knew whether they went to that other 
place called Siheilka, or no. 

So we passed safely on to the city of Jarawena, where there was 
a garrison of Muscovites, and there we rested five days, the caravaii 
being exceedingly fatigued with the last day's hard march, and with 
want of rest in the night. 

Erom this city we had a frightful desert, which held us three and 
twenty days’ march. We furnished ourselves with some tents here, 
for the better accommodating ourselves in the night ; and the leader 
of the caravan procured sixteen carriages or waggons of the country, 
for carrying our water and provisions, and these carriages were our 
defence every night round our little camp ; so that had the Tartars 
appeared, unless they had been very numerous indeed, they would 
not have been able to hurt us. 

We may well be supposed to want rest again after this long 
journey ; for in this desert we saw neither house or tree, or scarce 
a bush ; we saw abundance of the sable-hunters, as they called them. 
These arc all Tartars of the Mongol Tartary, of which this country is 
a part, and they frequently attack small caravan s> but we saw no 
num])crs of them together. I was curious to see the sable skins they 
catched, but could never speak with any of them, for they durst not 
come near us, neither durst we straggle from our company, to go 
near them. 

After we had passed this desert we came into a country pretty 
well inhabited ; that is to say, wo found towns and castles, settled 
by the Czar of Muscovy, with garrisons of stationary soldiers to pro- 
tect the caravans, and defend the country against the Tartars, who 
would otherwise make it very dangerous travelling ; and his Czarish 
Majesty has given such strict orders for the well guarding the cara- 
vans and merchants, that if there are any Tartars heard of in the 
country, detachments of the garrisons are always sent to see the 
travellers safe from station to station. 

And thus the governor of Adinskoy, who I had opportunity to 
make a visit to, by means of the Scots merchant who was acquainted 
with him, offered us a guard of 50 men, if we thought there was any 
danger, to the next station. 

I thought long before this, that as we came nearer to Europe we 
should find the country better peopled, and the people more civi- 
lized, but I found myself mistaken in both, for we had yet the nation 
of the Tongueses to pass through ; where we saw the same tokens of 
paganism and barbarity, or worse, than before, only as they were 
conquered by the Muscovites, and entirely reduced, they were not so 
dangerous ; but for rudeness of manners, idolatry and multitheism 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 459 

no people in the world ever went beyond them. They are clothed 
all in skins of beasts, and their houses are built of the same. Yov 
know not a man from a woman, neither by the ruggedness of their 
countenances or their clothes ; and in the winter, when the ground 
is covered with snow, they live under ground in houses like vaults, 
which have cavities from one to another. 

If the Tartars had tlieir Cham-Chi-Tliaungu for a whole village or 
country, these had idols in every hut and in every cave ; besides, 
they w^orship the stars, the sun, the water, the snow, and in a word, 
everything that they do not understand, and they understand but very 
little ; so that almost every element, every uncommon thing, sets 
them a sacrificing. 

But I am no more to describe people than countries, any farther 
than my own story comes to be concerned in them : I met with 
nothing peculiar to myself in all this country, which I reckon was from 
the desert which I spoke of last, at least 400 miles, half of it being 
another desert, which took us up 12 days* severe travelling, without 
house, or tree, or bush, but were obliged again to carry our own 
provisions, as well water as bread. After we were out of this desert, 
and had travelled two days, we came to Janezay, a Muscovite city or 
station, on the great Eiver J anezay : this river tlioy told us parted 
Europe from Asia, though our map-makers, as I am told, do not 
agree to it ; however, it is certainly the eastern boundary of the 
ancient Siberia, which now makes up a province only of the vast 
Muscovite empire, but is itself equal in bigness to the whole emi)ire 
of Germany. 

And yet here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, 
except in the Muscovite garrisons ; all the country between the Biver 
Oby and the Biver Janezay is as entirely pagan, and the people as 
barbarous, as the remotest of the Tartars, nay, as any nation, for 
aught I know, in Asia or America : I also found, which I observed 
to the Muscovite governors whom I had opportunity to converse 
with, that the poor pagans are not much the wiser or the nearer 
Christianity for being under the Muscovite government ; which they 
acknowledged was true enough, but, as they said, was none of their 
business : that if the Czar expected to convert his Siberian, or 
Tongueses, or Tartar subjects, it should be done by sending clergy- 
men among them, not soldiers ; and they added, with more sincerity 
than I expected, that they found it was not so much the concern of 
their monarch to make the peoxde Christians, as it was to make them 
subjects. 

From this river to the great Biver Oby, we crossed a wild 
uncultivated country ; I cannot say it is a barren soil ; it is only 
barren of peox)le, and good management, otherwise it is in itself a 
most pleasant, fruitful and agreeaMe country. What inhabitants we 
found in it are all pagans, except such as are sent among them from 
Bussia ; for this is the country, I mean on both sides the Biver Oby, 



46 o the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


whither the Muscovite criminals, that are not put to death, are 
banished, and from whence it is next to impossible they should ever 
come away. 

I have nothing material to say of my particular affairs till I came 
to Tobolsk!, the capital city of Siberia, where I continued some time 
on the following occasion. 

We had been now almost seven months on our journey, and 
winter began to come on apace ; whereupon my partner and I called 
a council about our particular affairs, in which we found it proper, 
considering that wo were bound for England, and not for Moscow, to 
consider how to dispose of ourselves. They told us of sledges and 
reindeer to carry us over the snow in the winter time ; and indeed 
they have such things, that it would be incredible to relate the 
particulars of, by which means the Bussians travel more in the 
winter than they can in summer, because in these sledges they 
are able to run night and day ; the snow being frozen, is one 
universal covering to nature, by which the hills, the vales, the rivers, 
the lakes, all are smooth, and hard as a stone, and they run upon the 
surface, without any regard to what is underneath. 

But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of this kind. I 
was bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways, 
either I must go on as the caravan went till I came to Jeroslaw, and 
then go off* west for Narva, and the Gulf of Finland ; and so either 
by sea or land to Dantzic, where I might possibly sell my China 
cargo to good advantage, or I must leave the caravan at a little 
town on the Dwina, from whence I had but six days by water to 
Archangel, and from thence might bo sure of shipping, either to 
England, Holland, or Hamburgh. 

Now to go any of these journeys in the winter would have been 
preposterous ; for as to Dantzic, the Baltic would be frozen up, and 
I could not get passage, and to go by land in those countries was far 
less safe than among the Mongol Tartars ; likewise to go to Arch- 
angel in October, all the ships would be gone from thence, and even 
the merchants who dwell there in summer, retire south to Moscow in 
the winter when the ships are gone ; so that I should have nothing 
but extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcity of provisions, 
and must lie there in an empty town all the winter. So that upon 
the whole I thought it much my better way to let the caravan go, and 
to make provision to winter where I was, viz., at Tobolsk! in Siberia, 
in the latitude of 60 degrees, where I was sure of three things to 
wear out a cold winter with, viz., plenty of provision such as the 
country afforded ; a warm house, with fuel enough, and excellent 
company ; of all which I shall give a full account in its place. 

I w^as now in a quite different climate from my beloved island, 
where I never felt cold except when I had my ague ; on the contrary, 
I had much to do to bear any clothes on my back, and never made 
any fire but without doors, and for my necessity in dressing my food^ 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 461 


etc. Now I made me three good vests, with large robes or gowns 
over them to hang down to the feet, and button close to the wrists 
and all these lined with furs to make them sufficiently warm. 

As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly disliked our way in 
England of making fires in every room in the house, in open 
chimneys, which, when the fire was out, always kept the air in the 
room cold as the climate. But taking an apartment in a good house 
in the town, I ordered a chimney to be built like a furnace, in the 
centre of six several rooms, like a stove, the funnel to carry the 
smoke went up one way, the door to come at the fire went in another, 
and all the rooms were kept equally warm, but no fire seen. 

By this means we had always the same climate in all the rooms, 
and an equal heat was preserved ; and how cold soever it was with- 
out, it was always warm within, and yet we saw no fire, nor were 
incommoded with any smoke. 

The most wonderful thing of all was that it should be possible to 
meet with good company here, in a country so barbarous as that of 
the most northerly parts of Europe, near the frozen ocean, and within 
but a few degrees of Nova Zembla. 

But this being the country where the state criminals of Muscovy, 
as I observed before, are all banished, this city was full of noblemen, 
princes, gentlemen, colonels, and, in short, all degrees of the 
nobility, gentry, soldiery, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here was the 
famous Prince Galliozen, the old General Kobostiski, and several 
other persons of note, and some ladies. 

By means of my Scots merchant, whom nevertheless I parted with 
here, I made an acquaintance hero with several of these gentlemen, 
and some of them of the first rank, and from these, in the long 
winter nights in which I stayed here, I received very agreeable visits. 

It was talking one night with Prince , one of the banished 

ministers of state, belonging to the Czar of Muscovy, that my talk of 
my particular case began. He had been telling me abundance of fine 
things of the greatness, the magnificence, the dominions, and the 
absolute power of the Emperor of the Eussians. I interrupted him, 
and told hiin I was a greater and more powerful prince than ever the 
Czar of Muscovy was, though my dominions were not so large, or my 
people so many. The Eussian grandee looked a little surprised, and 
fixing his eyes steadily upon me, began to wonder what I meant. 

I told him his wonder would cease when I had explained myself. 
First, I told him I had the absolute disposal of the lives and fortunes 
of all my subjects ; that, notwithstanding my absolute power, I had 
not one person disaffected to my government, or to my person, in all 
my dominions. He shook his head at that, and said there, indeed, 
I outdid the Czar of Muscovy. I told him that all the lands in my 
kingdom were my own, and all my subjects were nob only my 
tenants, but tenants at will ; that they would all fight for me to 
the last drop ; and that never tyrant, for such I acknowledged myself 



462 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


to be, was ever so universally beloved, and yet so horribly feared by 
his subjects. 

After amusing them with these' riddles in government for a while, 
I opened the case, and told them the story at largo of my living in 
the island, and how I managed both myself and tlie people there 
that were under me, just as I have since minuted it down. They 
were exceedingly taken with the story, and especially the prince, 
who told me with a sigh that the true greatness of life was to be 
master of ourselves. That he w^ould not have exchanged such a state 
of life as mine to have been Czar of Muscovy ; and that he found 
mor.e felicity in the retirement he seemed to be banished to there, 
than ever he found in the highest authority he enjoyed in the court 
of his master the Czar. That the height of human wisdom was to 
bring our tempers down to our circumstances ; and to make a calm 
within under the weight of the greatest scorns without. When he 
came first hither, he said he used to tear the hair from his head, an9 
the clothes from his back, as others had done before him ; but a little 
time and consideration had made him look into himself, as well as 
round him to tilings without. That he found the mind man, if it 
was but once brought to reflect upon the state of universal life, and 
how little this world was concerned in its true felicity, was perfectly 
cai)ablo of making a felicity for itself, fully satisfying to itself, and 
suitable to its own best ends and desires, with but very little assist- 
ance from the world. That air to breathe in, food to sustain life, 
clothes for warmth, and liberty for exercise in order to health, coin- 
pleted, in his opinion, all that the world could do for us ; and though 
the greatness, the authority, the riches, and the pleasures which 
some enjoyed in the world, and w^hich he had enjoyed his share ot, 
had much in them that was agreeable to us ; yet he observed that 
all those things chiefly gratified the coarsest of our affections, such 
as ambition, our particular pride, our avarice, our vanity, and our 
sensuality ; all which were indeed the mere product of the worst 
part of man, were in themselves crimes, and had in them the seeds 
of all manner of crimes, but neither were related to, or concerned 
with, any of those virtues that constituted us wise men, or of those 
graces which distinguished us as Christians. That being now de- 
prived of all the fancied felicity which he enjoyed in the full exercise 
of all those vices, he said he was at leisure to look upon the dark 
side of them, where he found all manner of deformity, and was now 
convinced that virtue only makes a man truly wise, rich, and great, 
and preserves him in the way to a superior happiness in a future 
state. And in this he said they were more happy in their banish- 
ment than all their enemies were who had the full possession of 
all the wealth and power that they (the banished) had left behind 
them. 

Nor, sir, says he, do I bring my mind to this politically, by the 
necessity of my circumstances, which some call miserable ; but if I 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 463 


know anything of myself, I would not now go back, though the 
Czar, my master, should call me, and reinstate me in all my former 
grandeur; I say, I would no more golback to it than I believe my 
soul, when it shall be delivered from this lorison of the body, and has 
had a taste of the glorious state beyond life, would come back to the 
gaol of flesh and blood it is, now enclosed in, and leave heaven to 
deal in the dirt and crime of human affairs. 

He spoke this with so much warmth in his temper, so much 
earnestness and motion of his spirits, which were apparent in his 
countenance, that it was evident it was the true sense of his soul. 
There was no room to doubt his sincerity. 

I told him I once thought myself a kind of a monarch in my old 
station, of which I had given him an account, but that I thought he 
was not a monarch only, but a great conqueror ; for that he that has 
got a victory over his own exorbitant desires, and has the absolute 
dominion over himself, whose reason entirely governs his will, is 
certainly greater than he that conquers a city. But, my lord, said 
I, shall I take the liberty to ask you a question? With all my heart, 
says he. If the door of your liberty was opened, said I, would you 
not take hold of it to deliver yourself from this exile ? 

Hold, said he, your question is subtle, and requires some serious 
just distinctions to give it a sincere answer ; and I’ll give it you 
from the bottom of my heart. Nothing that I know of in this 
world would move me to deliver myself from this state of banish- 
ment, except these two, first, the enjoyment of my relations, and 
secondly, a little warmer climate ; but I protest to you that to go 
back to the pomp of the court, the glory, the power, the hurry of a 
minister of state, the wealth, the gaiety, and the pleasures, that is to 
say, follies of a courtier ; if my master should send me word this 
moment that ho restores me to all he banished me from — I protest, 
if 1 know myself at all, I would not leave this wilderness, these 
deserts, and these frozen lakes, for the palace at Moscow, 

But, my lord, said I, perhaps you not only are banished from the 
pleasures of the court, and from the power, and authority, and 
wealth you enjoyed before, but you may be absent too from some of 
the conveniences of life, your estate perhaps confiscated and your 
effects plundered, and the supplies left you here may not bo suitable 
to the ordinary demands of life. 

Ay, says he, that is as you suppose me to be a lord, or a prince, 
etc. So indeed I am; but you are now to consider me only as a 
man, a human creature, not at all distinguished from another, and so 
I can suffer no want, unless I should be visited with sickness and 
distempers. However, to put the question out of depute ; you see 
our manner ; we are in this place five persons of rank ; we live per- 
fectly retired, as suited to a state of banishment ; we have something 
rescued from the shipwreck of our fortunes, which keeps us from 
the mere necessity of hunting for our food ; but the poor soldiers 



464 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


who are here, without that help, live in as much plenty as we, who 
go into the woods and catch sables and foxes ; the labour of a month 
will maintain them a year ; aild a's th#way of living is not expensive, 
so it is not hard to get sufficient to ourselves. So that objection is 
out of doors. 

I have not room to give a full account of the most agreeable con- 
versation I had wuth this truly great man ; in all wliich he showed,* 
that his mind was so inspired with a superior knowledge of things, 
so supported by religion, as well as by a vast share of wisdom ; that 
his contempt of the world was really as much as he had expressed, 
and that he was always the same to the last, as will appear in the 
story I am going to tell. 

I had been here 8 months, and a dark dreadful winter I thought 
it to be, the cold so intense that I could not so much as look abroad 
without being wrapt in furs, and a mask of fur before my face, oj^ 
rather a hood with only a hole for breath, and two for sight. Iffie 
little daylight we had was, as we reckoned, for three months, not 
above live hours a day, and six at most ; only that the snow lying on 
the ground continually, and the weather clear, it was never quite 
dark. Our horses were kept (or rather starved) under ground, and 
as for our servants, for we hired three servants hero to look after our 
horses and selves, we liad every now and then their fingers and toes 
to thaw and take care of, lost they should mortify and fall off. 

It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being close, the 
walls thick, the lights small, and the glass all double ; our food was 
chiefly the flesh of deer dried and cured in the season ; good bread 
enough, but baked as biscuits ; dried fish of several sorts, and some 
flesh of mutton, and of the buffaloes, which is pretty good beef. All 
the stores of provisions for the winter are laid up in the summer, 
and well cured ; our drink was water mixed with aquavit® instead 
of brandy, and for a treat, mead instead of wine, which, however, 
they had excellent good. The hunters, who venture abroad all 
weathers, frequently brought us in fresh venison, very fat and good, 
and sometimes bear’s flesh, but we did not much care for the last. 
We had a good stock of tea, with which we treated our friends, as 
above; in a word, we lived very cheerfully and well, all things 
considered. 

It was now March, and the days grown considerably longer, and 
the weather, at least, tolerable ; so the other travellers began to pre- 
pare sleds to carry them over the snow, and to get things ready to 
be going ; but my measures being fixed, as I have said, for Arch- 
angel, and not for Muscovy or the Baltic, I made no motion ; know- 
ing very well that the ships from the south do not set out for that 
part of the world till May or June, and that if I was there by the 
beginning of August, it would be as soon as any ships would be ready 
to go away ; and therefore, I say, I made no haste to be gone, as 
others did; in aword,I saw a great many people, nay, all the travellers 




THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 465 


go away before me. It seems every year they go from thence to 
Moscow for trade, viz., to carry furs, and buy necessaries with them, 
which they bring back to furnish their'shops ; also others went of the 
same errand to Archangel, but then they also being to come back 
again above 800 miles, went all out before mo. 

In short, about the latter end of May I began to make all ready to 
pack up ; and as I was doing this, it occurred to me, that seeing all I 
these people were banished by the Czar of Muscovy to Siberia, and ' 
yet when they came there, were left at liberty to go whither they 
would, why did they not then go away to any part of the world 
wherever they thought fit ? and I began to examine what should 
hinder them from making such an attempt. 

But my wonder was over, when I entered upon that subject with 
the person I have mentioned, who answered me thus : Consider, first, 
sir, said he, the place where we are; and secondly, the condition we 
SxQ in; especially, said he, the generality of the people who are 
banished hither. We are surrounded, said he, with stronger things 
than bars and bolts ; on the north side an unnavigable ocean, where 
ship never sailed, and boat never swam ; neither, if we had both, 
could we know where to go with them. Every other way, said he, 
we have above a thousand miles to pass through the Czar’s own 
dominions, and byways utterly unpassable, except by the roads made 
by the governor, and by the towns garrisoned by his troops ; so that 
we could neither pass undiscovered by the road, or subsist any other 
way, so that it is in vain to attempt it. 

I was silenced indeed at once, and found that they were in a 
prison, every jot as secure as if they had been locked up in the castle 
at Moscow ; however, it came into my thought that I might certainly 
be made an instrument to procure the escape of this excellent person, 
and that whatever hazard I run, I would certainly try if I could 
carry him off. Upon this I took an occasion one evening to tell him 
my thoughts. I represented to him that it was very easy for me to 
carry him away, there being no guard over him in the country, and 
as I was not going to Moscow, but to Archangel, and that I went in 
the nature of a caravan, by which I was not obliged to lie in the 
stationary towns in the desert, but could encamp every night where 
I would, we might easily pass uninterrupted to Archangel, where I 
would immediately secure him on board an English or Dutch ship, 
and carry him off safe along with me ; and as to his subsistence, and 
other particulars, it should be my care till he could better supply 
himself. 

He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly on me all the 
while I spoke ; nay, I could see in his very face, that what I said put 
his spirits into an exceeding ferment ; his colour frequently changed, 
his eyes looked red, and his heart fluttered, that it might be even 
perceived in his countenance ; nor could he immediately answer me. 
When I had done, and as it were expected what ho would say to it, 

* c\r\ 



466 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


after he had paused a little he embraced me, and said, How unhappy 
are we, unguarded creatures as we are, that even our greatest acts of 
friendship are made snares tb us, and we are made tempters of one 
another! My dear friend, said he, your offer is so sincere, has 
such kindness in it, is so disinterested in itself, and is so calculated 
for my advantage, that I must have very little knowledge of the 
world, if I did not both wonder at it, and acknowledge the obligation 
I have upon me to you for it. But did you believe I was sincere in 
what I have so often said to you of my contempt of the world ? Did 
you believe I spoke my very soul to you, and that I had really 
obtained that degree of felicity here, that had placed me above ail 
that the world could give me, or do for me ? Did you believe I was 
sincere, when I told you I would not go back if I was recalled, even 
to be all that once I was in the court with the favour of the Czar my 
master ? Did you believe me, my friend, to be an honest man, eg* 
did you think me to be a boasting hypocrite ? Here he stopped, as 
if he would hear what I would say ; but indeed, I soon after perceived 
that he stopped because his spirits were in motion, his great heart 
was full of struggles, and he could not go on. I was, I confess, 
astonished at the thing as well as at the man, and I used some 
arguments with him to urge him to set himself free : that ho ought 
to look upon this as a door opened by Heaven for his deliverance, 
and a summons by Providence, who has the care and disposition of 
all events, to do himself good, and to render himself useful in the 
world. 

He had by this time recovered himself. How do you know, sir, 
says he warmly, that instead of a summons from Heaven, it may not 
be a feint of another instrument ? Eepresenting in all the alluring 
colours to me the show of felicity as a deliverance, which may in 
itself be my snare, and tend directly to my ruin. Here I am free 
from the temptation of returning to my former miserable greatness ; 
there I am not sure but that all the seeds of pride, ambition, avarice 
and luxury, which I know remain in nature, may revive and take 
root, and, in a word, again overwhelm me, and then the happy 
prisoner, who you see now master of his soul's liberty, shall be the 
miserable slave of his own senses, in the full of all personal liberty. 
Dear sir, let me remain in this blessed confinement, banished from 
the crimes of life, rather than purchase a show of freedom, at the 
expense of the liberty of my reason, and at the expense of the future 
happiness which now I have in my view, but shall then, I fear, 
quickly lose sight of ; for I am but flesh, a man, a mere man, have 
passions and affections as likely to possess and overthrow me as any 
man. 0 be not my friend and my tempter both together I 

If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, and stood silent, 
looking at him, and indeed admired at what I saw ; the struggle in 
his soul was so great, that though the weather was extremely cold, 
it put him into a most violent sweat, and I found he wanted to give 



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 467 


vent to lais mind ; so I said a word or two, that I would leave him 
to consider of it, and wait on him again, and then I withdrew to my 
own apartment. 

About two hours after I heard somebody at, or near, the door of 
my room, and I was going to open the door, but he had opened it, 
and came in. My dear friend, says he, you had almost overset me, 
but I am recovered ; do not take it ill that I do not close with your 
offer ; I assure you, it is not for want of a sense of the kindness of 
it in you, and I came to make the most sincere acknowledgment of 
it to you ; but I hope I have got the victory over myself. 

My lord, said I, I hope you are fully satisfied that you do not 
resist the call of Heaven. Sir, said he, if it had been from Heaven, 
the same power would have influenced me to accept it ; but I hope, 
and am fully satisfied, that it is from Heaven that I decline it, and I 
iiave an infinite satisfaction in the parting, that you shall leave me 
an honest man still, though not a free man. 

I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make professions to him 
of my having no end in it but a sincere desire to serve him. He 
embraced me very passionately, and assured me he was sensible of 
that, and should always acknowledge it, and with that he offered me 
a very fine present of sables, too much indeed for me to accept from 
a man in his circumstances, and I would have avoided them, but he 
would not be refused. 

The next morning I sent my servant to his lordship, with a small 
present of tea, and two pieces of China damask, and four little 
wedges of Japan gold, which did not all weigh above six ounces, or 
thereabout, but were far short of the value of his sables, which, 
indeed, when I came to England, I found worth near £200. He 
accepted the tea, and one piece of the damask, and one of the pieces 
of gold, which had a fine stamp upon it of the Japan coinage, which 
I found he took for the rarity of it, but would not take any more, 
and he sent word by my servant that he desired to speak with me. 

When I came to him he told me I knew what had passed between 
us, and hoped I would not move him any more in that affair ; but 
that since I had made such a generous oiler to him, he asked me if 
I had kindness enough to offer the same to another person that he 
would name to mo, in whom he had a great share of concern ; 1 
told him that I could not say I inclined to do so much for any one 
but himself, for whom I had a particular value, and should have been 
glad to have been the instrument of his deliverance. However, if he 
would please to name the person to me, I would give him iny answer, 
and hoped he would not be displeased with me, if he was with my 
answer. He told me it was only his son, who, though I had not 
seen, yet was in the same condition with himself, and above two 
hundred miles from him, on the other side the Oby ; but that if I 
consented, he would send for him. 

I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I made some 

30-~.2 



468 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


ceremony in letting him understand that it was wholly on his account, 
and that seeing I could not prevail on him, I would show my respect 
to him, by my concern for his ^on ; but these things are too tedious 
to repeat here. He sent away the next day for his son, and in about 
twenty days he came back with the messenger, bringing six or seven 
horses, loaded with very rich furs, and which in the whole amounted 
to a very great value. 

His servants brought the horses into the town, but left the young 
lord at a distance till night, w^hen he came incognito into our apart- 
ment, and his father presented him to me; and in short, we concerted 
there the manner of our travelling, and everything proper for the 
journey. 

i had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black fox-skins, 
fine ermines, and such other furs as are very rich; I say, I had 
bought them in that city in exchange for some of the goods I brought# 
from China ; in particular for the cloves and nutmegs, of which I 
sold the gi'eatest part here, and the rest afterwards at Archangel, for 
a much better price than I could have done at London ; and my 
partner who wras sensible of the profit, and whoso business more 
particularly than mine was merchandise, was mightily pleased with 
our stay, on account of the traffic we made here. 

It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place, a city, 
I believe, little heard of in the world ; and indeed it is so far out of 
the road of commerce, that I know not how it should be much 
talked of. We were now come to a very small caravan, being only 
thirty-two horses and camels in all, and all of them passed for mine, 
though my new guest was projjrietor of eleven of them ; it was most 
natural also that I should take more servants with mo than I had 
before, and the young lord passed for my steward ; what great man 
I passed for myself, I know not, neither did it concern me to inquire ; 
w(‘. had hero the worst and the largest desert to pass over that we 
met with in all the journey; indeed, I call it the worst, because the 
way was very deep in some places, and very uneven in others ; the 
best we had to say for it was, that we thought we had no troops of 
Tartars and robbers to fear, and that they never came on this side 
the river Oby, or at least but very seldom, but w^e found it otherwise. 

My young lord had with him a faithful Muscovite servant, or 
rather a Siberian servant, who was perfectly acquainted with the 
country, and led us by private roads, that we avoided coming into 
the principal towns and cities upon the great road, such as Tumen, 
Soly-Kamskoi, and several others ; because the Muscovite garrisons 
which are kept there, are very curious and strict in their observation 
upon travellers ; and searching lest any of the banished persons of 
note should make their escape that way into Muscovy ; but by this 
means, as we were kept out of the cities, so our whole journey was 
a desert, and we w^ere obliged to encamp and lie in our tents, when 
we might have had very good accommodation in the cities on the 




, THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 469 


way ; this the young lord was so sensible of, that he would not allow 
us to lie abroad, when we came to several cities on the way, but lay 
abroad himself with his servants in tiie woods, and met us always at 
the appointed places. 

We were just entered Europe, having passed the river Kama^ 
which in these parts is the J)oundary between Europe and Asia, and 
the first city on the European side was called Soly-Kamskoi, which 
is as much as to say, the great city on the Eiver Kama ; and here we 
thought to have seen some evident alteration in the people, their 
manners, their habit, their religion, and their business ; but we were 
mistaken, for as we had a vast desert to pass, which by relation is 
near seven hundred miles long in some places, but not above two 
hundred miles over where we passed it, so till we came past that 
horrible place, we found very little difference between that country 
and the Mongol Tartary ; the people mostly pagans, and little better 
,lhan tlie savages of ^merica, their houses and towns full of idols, 
and their way of living wholly barbarous, except in the cities as 
above, and the villages near tliem ; where there are Christians, as 
they call themselves, of the Greek Church, but have their religion 
mingled with so many relics of superstition, that it is scarce to bo 
known in some places from mere sorcery and witchcraft. 

In passing tliis forest, I thought indeed we must, after all our 
dangers were in our imagination escaped, as before, have been 
plundered and robbed, and perhaps murdered by a troop of thieves. 
Uf what country they were, whether the roving bands of the Ostiachi, 
a kind of Tartars or wild people on the bank of the Oby, had ranged 
thus far, or whether they were the sable-hunters of Siberia, I am yet 
at a loss to know ; but they were all on horseback, carried bows and 
arrows, and were at first about five and forty in number. Tlicy came 
so near to us, as within about two musket shot, and asking no ques- 
tions, they surrounded us with their horse, and looked very earnestly 
upon us twice ; at length they placed themselves just in our way, 
upon which we drew up in a little line before our camels, being not 
above sixteen men in all; and being drawn up thus, we halted and 
sent out the Siberian* servant, who attended his lord, to see who they 
were ; his master was the more willing to let him go, because he was 
not a little apprehensive that they were a Siberian troop sent out 
after him. The man came up near them with a flag of truce, and 
called them, but though he spoke several of their languages, or 
dialects of languages rather, he could not understand a word they 
said ; however, after some signs to him not to come nearer to them 
at his peril — so he said he understood them to mean, offering to shoot 
at him if he advanced — the fellow came back no wiser than he went, 
only that by their dress, he said, he believed them to be some Tartars 
of Galmuck, or of Circassian hordes ; and that there must be more 
of them upon the great desert, though he never heard that any of 
them ever were seen so far north before. 




470 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


This was small comfort to^ us ; however, we had no remedy. 
There was on our left hand at about a quarter of a mile’s distance, 
a little grove or clump of treefi which stood close together, and very 
near the road ; I immediately resolved we would advance to those 
trees, and fortify ourselves as well as we could there ; for first I con- 
sidered that the trees would in a great measure cover us from their 
arrows, and in the next place, they could not come to charge us in 
a body ; it was indeed my old Portuguese pilot who proposed it, and 
who had this excellency attending him, namely, that he was always 
readiest and most apt to direct and encourage us in cases of the mo.jt 
danger. Wo advanced immediately with what speed we could, and 
gained that little wood, the Tartars or thieves, for we knew not what 
to call them, keeping their stand and not attempting to hinder us ; 
when we came thither, we found to our great satisfaction that it was 
a swampy springy piece of ground, and on the one side a very great 
spring of water, which running out in a little rill or brook, was p 
little farther joined by another of the like bigness, and was in short 
the head or source of a considerable river, called afterwards the 
Wirtska. The trees which grew about this spring were not all above 
two hundred, but were very large, and stood pretty thick ; so that as 
soon as we got in we saw ourselves perfectly safe from the enemy, 
unless they alighted and attacked us on foot. 

But to make this more difficult, our Portuguese, with indefatigable 
application, cut down great arms of the trees, and laid them hanging 
not quite cut off from one tree to another, so that he made a con- 
tinued fence almost round us. 

We stayed hero waiting the motion of the enemy some hours 
without perceiving they made any motion ; when about two hours 
before night they came down directly upon us, and though we had 
not perceived it, we found they had been joined by some more of tlie 
same, so that they were near fourscore horse, whereof, however, we 
fancied some were women. They came on till chey were within half 
shot of our little wood, when we fired one musket without ball, and 
called to them in the Eussian tongue, to know what they wanted, 
and bid them keep off ; but as if they knew nothing of what we said, 
they came on with a double fury directly up to the wood side, not 
imagining we were so barricaded that they could not break in : our 
old pilot was our captain, as well as he had been our engineer, and 
desired of us not to fire upon them till they came within pistol-shot, 
and that we might be sure to kill, and that when we did fire, we 
should be sure to take good aim ; we bade him give the word of com- 
mand, which he delayed so long, that they were some of them within 
two pikes’ length of us when we fired. 

We aimed so true (or Providence directed our shot so sure), that 
we killed fourteen of them and wounded several others, as also 
several of their horses ; for we had all of us loaded our pieces with 
two or three bullets at I east. 






THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 471 


They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated immedi- 
ately about one hundred rods from us ; in which time we loaded our 
pieces again, and seeing them keep that distance, we sallied out and 
catched four or five of their horses, whose riders we supposed were 
killed, and coming up to the dead, we could easily perceive they were 
Tartars, but knew not from what country, or how they came to make 
an excursion such an unusual length. 

About an hour after they made a motion to attack us again, and 
rode round our little wood, to see where else they might break in ; 
but finding us always ready to face them, they went off again, and 
we resolved not to stir from the place for that night. 

We slept little, you may be sure, but spent the most part of the 
night in strengthening our situation, and barricading the entrances 
into the wood, and keeping a strict watch. We waited for daylight, 
and when it came it gave us a very unwelcome discovery indeed ; for 
Mie enemy, whom we thought were discouraged with the reception 
they had met with, were now increased to no less than three 
hundred, and had set up eleven or twelve huts and tents, as if they 
were resolved to besiege us ; and this little camp they had pitched 
upon the open plain, at about three-quarters of a mile from us. We 
were indeed surprised at this discovery ; and now I confess I gave 
myself over for lost, and all that I had. The loss of rny effects did 
not lie so near me (though they were very considerable), as the 
thoughts of falling into the hands of such barbarians, at the latter 
end of my journey, after so many difficulties and hazards as I had 
gone througli, and even in sight of our port, where we expected safety 
and deliverance. As for my partner, he was raging ; he declared that 
to lose his goods would bo his ruin, and he would rather die than bo 
starved ; and he was for fighting to the last drop. 

The young lord, as gallant as ever flesh showed itself, was for 
fighting to the last also ; and my old pilot was of the opinion we 
were able to resist them all in the situation we were then in ; and 
thus we spent the day in debates of what we should do, but towards 
evening we found that the number of our enemies still increased ; 
perhaps as* they were'abroad in several parties for prey, the first had 
sent out scouts to call for help, and to acquaint them of the booty, 
and we did not know but by the morning they might still be a greater 
number ; so I began to inquire of those people we had brought from 
Tobolsk! if there was no other or more private ways by which we 
might avoid them in the night, and perhaps either retreat to some 
town, or get help to guard us over the desert. 

The Siberian who was servant to the young lord, told us if we 
designed to avoid them and not fight, he would engage to carry us off 
in the night, to a way that went north towards the Petrou, by which 
he made no question but we might get away, and the Tartars never 
the wiser ; but he* said his lord had told him he would not retreat, 
but would rather choose to fight. I told him he mistook his lord, 



472 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


for that he was too wise a man to love fighting for the sake of it ; 
that I knew his lord was brave enough by what he had showed 
already ; but that his lord knew better than to desire to have s<wen- 
teen or eighteen men fight five hundred, unless an unavoidable 
necessity forced them to it ; and that if he thought it possible for us 
to escape in the night, we had nothing else to do but to attempt it. 
He answered, if his lord gave him such orders he would lose his life 
if he did not perform it ; we soon brought his lord to give that order, 
though privately, and we immediately prepared for the putting it in 
practice. 

And first, as soon as it begun to bo dark, we kindled a fire in our 
little camp, which we kept burning, and prepared so as to make it 
burn all night, that the Tartars might conclude we were still there ; 
but as soon as it was dark, (that is to say) so as we could see the stars 
(for our guide would not stir before), having all our horses and 
camels ready loaden, we followed our new guide, who, I soon foundf 
steered himself by the pole, or north star, all the country being 
level for a long way. 

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be lighter 
stil], not that it was quite dark all night, but the moon began to rise, 
so that in short it was rather lighter than we wished it to be ; but by 
six o*clock the next morning wo were gotten near forty miles, though 
the truth is we almost spoiled our horses. Here wo found a Eussian 
village named Kermazinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of 
the Calmuck Tartars that day. About two hours before night we set 
out again, and travelled till eight the next morning, though not quite 
so quick as before, and about seven o'clock we passed a little river 
called Kirtza, and came to a good large town inhabited by Eussians, 

■ and very populous, called Ozomoys ; there we heard that several 
troops or hordes of Galmucks had been abroad upon the desert, but 
that we were now completely out of danger of them, which was to 
our great satisfaction, you may be sure. Here we were obliged to 
get some fresh horses, and having need enough of rest, we stayed 
five days ; and my partner and I agreed to give the honest Siberian 
who brought us thither the value of ten pistoles for his conduct- 
ing us. 

i In five days more we came to Veuslima, upon the Eiver Witzogda, 
and, running into the Dwina, we were there very happily near the 
end of our travels by land, that river being navigable in seven days* 
passage to Archangel ; from hence we came to Lawrenskoy, the 3rd 
of July, and providing ourselves with two luggage boats, and a barge 
for our own convenience, we embarked the 7th, and arrived all safe 
at Archangel the 18th, having been ax®ar and five months and three 
days on the journey, including our stay of eight months and odd 
days at Tobolski. 

We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the arrival of 
the ships, and must have tarried longer, had not a Hamburgher come 




Tin: LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 473 


in above a month sooner than any of the English ships ; when after 
some consideration, that the city of Hamburgh might happen to be 
as ^od a market for our goods as London, we all took freight with 
him, and having put my goods on board, it was most natural for me 
to put my steward on board to take care of them, by which means 
my young lord had a sufficient opportunity to conceal himself, never 
coming on shore in all the time we stayed there ; and this ho did 



CRUSOE PKUrARlNO FOR HIS LAST JOUENEV.—P. 471. 


that he might not be seen in the city, where some of the Moscow 
merchants would certainly have seen and discovered him. 

We sailed from Archangel the 20th of August the same year, and 
after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived in the Elbe the 13th of 
September. Here my partner and I found a very good sale for our 
goods, as well those of China as the sables, etc., of Siberia ; and 
dividing the produce of our effects, my share amounted to £3475 




474 the life and ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


17s. 3d., notwithstanding so many losses we had sustained and 
charges we had been at ; only remembering that I had included iu 
this about six hundred pounds worth of diamonds which I ^liad 
purchased at Bengal. 

Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went up the Elbe in 
order to go to the Court of Vienna, where he resolved to seek pro* 
tection, and where he could correspond with those of his father's 
friends who were left alive. He did not part without all the testi- 
monies he could give me of gratitude for the service I had done him, 
and his sense of my kindness to the prince his father. 

To' conclude, having stayed near four months in Hamburgh, I came 
from thence overland to the Hague, where I embarked in the 
packet, and arrived in London the 10th of January, 1705, having 
been gone from England ten years and nine months. 

And here, resolving to harass myself no more, I am preparing for 
a longer journey than all these, having lived 72 years a life of infinite 
variety, and learned sufficiently to know the value of retirement, 
and the blessing of ending oui* days in peace. 



THE END. 


SlLLi?IO AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD. 








