








Ube “Waoclb’s dlassti s 

« 


XVII 

'PHE WORKS 

V 

OK 

DxVKIEE DEFOE.- 1 

TIIF. ADVKN'TUUES OF ROBINSOX C'lU SOF.. 









THE ADVENTURES 

(IF 

ROBINSON CRUSOE 


ItY 

DANIEL DEFOE 



HENRY FROWDE 
OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS 
LONDON, NEW YOUR, TOHON'IT) AND MELBOURNE 



IXvxrKI- 


liorii : St. Gilos’s, Grijtpleiratr, KJOO or 
Died : Moorfields, April (J, 

^ The ^Iflreiif'firrfi ttf Hietlu.^ion Crn.soe’ u'as 
pnh/hshed in l‘i T,K In ‘ I'he Wor/d'.s C/ns.sii'^s'' if 
Mv/,s* /?r.s*/ jnihtished in nnd reprinted in 

looi 


Printed by R. Sc R. Ci.atck:, LiMirt'n, F.dhthvf 



AUTHOR’S PREFACE 


If ever liie story of any private inan’s adventures in 
the world were worth making public, and were accept- 
able when published, the Editor of this account thinks 
this will be so. 

The wonders of this man’s life exceed all that (he 
thinks) is to be found extant ; the life of one man 
beings scarce capable of a greater variet)^ 

The story i^ told with modesty, with seriousness, 
and with a religious applicati#n of events to the uses 
to which wise men alw^ays apply them, viz., to the in- 
struction of others by this example, and to justify and 
honour the wisdom of Providence in all the variety of 
our circumstances, let them happen how they will. 

The Editor believes the thing to be a just history of 
fact ; neither is there any apj>earaiice of fiction in it ; 
and, however, thinks, because all such things are de- 
spa»tched, that the improvement of it, as well to the 
diversion as to tlie instruction of the reader, will be 
the same. And as such, he thinks, without further 
compliment to the world, he does them a great service 
in the publication. 




THE 

LIFE AND ADVENTURES 


OF 

ROBINSON CRUSOE 

1 WAS born in' the year 1032, jn tlie city of York, of a 
good family, though not of that country, my father 
being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at Hull. 
He got a good estate by mm-chandisc, and leaving off 
his tivade, lived afterward at York, from whence he 
had married my mother, whose relations were named 
Robinson, a very good family in that country, and 
from whom 1 was called Robinson Kreutznaer ; but by 
the usual corruption of words in England we are now 
called, nay, we call ourselves, and write our name, 
Crusoe, and so my companions always called me. 

I had two lelder brothers, one of which ^ was lieu- 
tenant-colonel to an English regiment of foot in 
Flanders, formerly commanded by tlie famous ('olonel 
liOckhart, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk 
against the Spaniards ; what became of my second 
brother I never knew, any more than my father and 
mother did know what was become of me. 

Being the third sou of the family, and not bred to 
any trjide, my head began to he filled very early with 
rambling thoughts, ^ly father, who was very ancient, 
had given me a competent share of learning, as far as 
house-education and a couu\ry free school generally 

B 



2 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


goes^ and designed me for the law ; but I would be 
satisfied with nothing hut going to sea ; and my in- 
clination to this led me so strongly against the will, 
nay, the commands, of my father, and against all the 
entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other 
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that 
propension of nature tending directly to the life of 
misery which was to befall me. 

My fatlior, a wise and grave man, gave me serious 
and excellent counsel sigainst what he foresaw was my 
design, lie called me one morning into his chamber, 
where he was confined by the gout, and expostulated 
very warmly with me upon this subject. He asked me 
what reasons more than a mere wandering inclination 
I had for leaving my father’s house and my native 
country, where I might be well introduced, and had a 
prospect of raising my fortunes by application and in- 
dustry, with a life of ease and pleasure, lie told me 
it was for men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or 
of aspiring, superior fortunes on the other, who went 
abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise, and make 
themselves famous in undertakings of a nature out of 
the common road ; that these things were all either too 
far above me, or too far below me ; that mine was the 
middle state, or what might be called the upper station 
of low life, which he had found by long experience 
was the best state in the world, the most suited to 
human happiness, not exposed to the miseries and hard- 
ships, the labour and sufferings, of the mechanic part of 
mankind, and not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, 
ambition, and envy of the upper part of mankind. He 
told me 1 might judge of the happiness of this state 
by this one thing, viz., that this was the state of life 
which all other people envied ; that kings have fre- 
quently lamented the miserable consequences of being 
born to great things, and wished they had been placed 
in the middle of the two extremes, between the mean 
and the great ; that the wise man gave his testimony 
to this as the just standard of true felicity, when he 
prayed to have neither pc irerty or riches. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 3 


He bid me observe it, and I should always hnd, 
that the calamities of life were shared among the upper 
and lower part of mankind ; but that the middle station 
had the fewest dis<isters, and was not exposed to so 
many vicissitudes afe the higher or lower part of man- 
kind. Nay, they were not subjected to so many 
distempers and uneasinesses either of body or mind 
as those were who, by vicious living, luxury, and ex- 
travagances on one hand, or by hard labour, want of 
necessaries, and mean or insufficient diet on the other 
hand, bring distempers upon themselves by the natural 
consequences of their way of living ; that the middle 
station of life was calculated for all kind of virtues and 
all kind of enjoyments ; that peace and plenty wero 
the handmaids of a middle fortune ; tjjat temperance, 
moderation, quietness, health, society, all agreeable 
diversions, an<j all desirable pleasures, were the blessings 
attending the middle station life ; that this way men 
went silently and smoothly through the world, and 
comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with the labours 
of the hands or of the head, not sold to the life of 
slavery for daily bread, or harassed with perplexed 
circumstances, which rob the soul of peace, and the 
body of rest ; not enraged with the passion of envy, or 
secret burning lust of ambition for great things; but in 
easy circumstances sliding gently through the world, 
and sensibly tasting the sweets of living, without the 
bitter, feeling that they are happy, and learning by 
every day's eJ^)erience to know it more sensibly. 

After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most 
affectionate manner, not to play the young man, not to 
precipitate myself into miseries which Nature and the 
station of life 1 was born in seemed to have provided 
against ; that I was under no necessity of seeking my 
bread ; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to 
enter me fairly into the station of life which he had been 
just recommending to me ; and that if I was not very 
easy and happy in the world it must be my mere fate 
or fault that must hinder it, and that he should have 
nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty 



4 ADVElSrrURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


in warning me against measures which he knew would 
be to my hurt ; in a word, that as he would do very kind 
things for me if 1 would stay and settle at home as he 
directed, so he would not have so much hand in my 
misfortunes, as to give me any encouragement to go 
away. And to close ail, he told me I had my elder 
brother for an example, to whom he had used the same 
earnest persuasions to keep him from going into the Low 
Country wars, but could not prevail, his young desires 

E rompting him to run into the army, whore he was 
illed ; and though he said he would not cease to pray 
for me, yet he would venture to say to me, that if I 
did tiike this foolish step, Cod would not bless me, and 
I would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having 
neglected his counsel when there might be none to 
assist in my recovery, 

J observed in this last part of his discourse, which 
was truly prophetic, though 1 suppose my father did 
not know it to be so himself — I sfiy, I observed the tears 
run down his face very plentifully, and especially when 
he spoke of my brother who was killed ; and that when 
he spoke of my having leisure to repent, and none to 
assist me, he was so moved, that he broke off the dis- 
course, and told me, his heart was so full he could say 
no more to me. 

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as indeed 
who could be otherwise.^ and I resolved not to think 
of going abroad any more, but to settle at lioine accord- 
ing to my father’s desire. But alas ! a few days wore 
it all off ; and, in sliort, to prevent any of my father’s 
farther importunities, in a few weeks after I resolved 
to run quite away from him. However, I did not act so 
hastily neither as my lirst heat of resolution prompted, 
but I took my mother, at a time when 1 tlumght her 
a little ]>leasanter than ordinary, and told her, that rny 
thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the world, 
that 1 should never settle to anything with resolution 
enough to go through with it, and my father had 
better give me his consent than force me to go without 
it ; that 1 was now eighteen years old, which was too 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 5 


late to apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney; 
that 1 was sure if 1 did, 1 should never serve out my 
time, and 1 should certainly run away from my master 
before my time was out, and g^o to sea ; and if she 
would speak to my father to let me go hut one voyag^e 
abroad, if I came home again and did not like it, I 
would go no more, and J would promise by a double 
diligence to recover that time I had lost. 

This put my mother into a great passion. She told 
me, she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my 
father upon any such subject ; that he knew too well 
what was my interest to give his consent to anything so 
much for my hurt, and that she wondered how 1 could 
think of any such thing after •^uch a discourse as I liad 
had with my fatimr, and such kind and tender expres- 
sions as she knew my father had used if> me ; and tliat, 
in short, if 1 \vould ruin myself there was no help for 
me ; but I might dej)cnd J^should never have their 
consent to it ; that for her part, she would not have so 
nnich hand in my destruction, and I should never have 
it to say, that my mother was willing when my father 
was not. 

Though my mother relused to move it to my father, 
yet, as I Ijave heard afterwards, she reported all the 
discourse to him, 'and that my father, after showing a 
great concern at it, said to her with a sii>h, ‘That l)f)y 
might be happy if he would stay at home, hut if he goes 
alrroad he will be the miserablest wretch that was e>^er 
born : I can give no consent to it/ 

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke 
loose, though in the meantime I continued obstinately 
deaf to all proposals of settling to business, and fre- 
quently expostulating wdth my father and mother about 
their being so positively determined against what they 
knew my inclinations prompted me to. But being one 
day at Hull, where 1 went casually, and witliout any 
purpose of making an elopement that time ; but I say, 
being there, and one of my companions being going by 
sea to London, in his father’s ship, and prompting me 
to go with them, with the aommon allurement of sea- 



6 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

faring men, viz., that it should cost me nothing for my 
passage, 1 consulted neither father or mother any more, 
nor so much as sent them word of it ; but leaving them 
to hear of it as they might, without asking God’s 
blessing, or my father’s, without any consideration of 
circumstances or consequences, and in an ill hour, God 
knows, on the first of September, 1051, 1 went on 
board a ship bound for London. Never any young 
adventurer’s misfortunes, 1 believe, began sooner, or 
continued longer than mine. The ship was no sooner 
gotten out of the Humber, but the wind began to blow, 
and the waves to rise in a most frightful manner ; and 
as 1 had never been at sea before, 1 was most inex- 
pressibly sick in body, and terrified in my mind. I began 
now seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and how 
justly 1 was overtaken by the judgment of heaven for 
my wicked leaving my father’s house, an/i abandoning 
my duty ; all the goodn counsel of my parents, my 
father’s tears and my mother’s entreaties, came now 
fresh into my mind, and my conscience, which was 
not yet come to the pitch of hardness which it has 
been since, reproached me with the contempt of advice, 
and the breach of my duty to God and my father. 

All this while the storm increased, and the sea, 
which 1 had never been upon before, wont very high, 
though nothing like what I have seen many times 
since ; no, nor like what 1 saw a few days after. But 
it was enough to affect me then, who was but a young 
sailor, and had never known anything of the matter. 
I expected every wave would have swaDowed us up, 
and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought, 
in the trough or hollow of the sea, we should never 
rise more ; and in this agony of mind I made many vows 
and resolutioiis, that if it would please God here to 
spare my life this one voyage, if ever 1 got once my foot 
upon dry laud again, 1 would go directly home to my 
father, and never set it into a ship again while I lived ; 
that 1 would take his advice, and never run myself into 
such miseries as these any more. Now 1 saw plainly 
the goodness of his observations about the middle 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 7 

station of life, how easy, how comfortably he had lived 
all his days, and never had been exposed to tempests 
at sea, or troubles on shore ; and I resolved that 1 
would, like a true repenting prodigal, go home to my 
father. 

lliese wise and sober thoughts continued all the 
while the storm continued, and indeed some time 
after ; hut the next day the wind was abated and the 
sea calmer, and I began to be a little inured to it. 
However, I was very grave for all that day, being also 
a little sea-sick still ; but towards night the weather 
cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charming 
fine evening followed ; the sun went down perfectly 
clear, and rose so the next morning ; and having little 
or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, 
the sight was, as 1 thought, the most? delightful that 
ever 1 saw. 

I had slept well in the nigjit, and was now no more 
sea-sick but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon 
the sea that was so rough and terrible the day before, 
and could be so calm and so pleasant in so little time 
after. And now lest my good resolutions should con- 
tinue, my companion, who had indeed enticed me 
away, comes to me: ^Well, Bob,’ says he, clapping 
me on the shoulder, ^how do you do after itr 1 
w^arrant you were frighted, wa’n't you, last night, w^hen 
it blew but a capful of wind ^ A capful, d’you 
call it.^’ said I; ^’twas a terrible storm.* ^ A storm, 
you fool yoirj’ replies he ; ^ do you call that a storm ? 
Why, it was nothing at all ; give us but a good ship 
and sea-room, and wo think nothing of such a scjuall 
of wind as that ; but you’re but a fresh-water sailor. 
Bob. C’ome, let us make a bowl of punch, and we’ll 
forget all that ; d’ye see what charming weather *tis 
now?* ’fo make short this sad part of my story, we 
went the old way of all sailors ; the punch was made, 
and i was made drunk with it, and in that one night’s 
wickedness 1 drowned all my repentance, all my re- 
flections upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions 
for my future. In a word^as the sea was returned to 



8 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

its smoothness of surface and settled calmness by the 
abatement of that storm, so the hurry of my thou«^hts 
being over, my fears and apprehensions of being 
swallowed up by the sea being forgotten, and the 
current of my former desires returned, 1 entirely forgot 
the vows and promises that I made in my distress. I 
found indeed some intervals of reflection, and the 
serious thoughts did, as it were, endeavour to return 
again sometimes ; but I shook them off, and roused 
myself from them as it were from a distemper, and 
applying myself to drink and company, soon mastered 
the return of those fits, for so 1 called them, and I 
had in five or six days got as complete a vitffory over 
conscience as any young fellow that resolved not to 
he troubled with it could desire. But I was to have 
another trial foi it still ; and Providence, as in such 
cases generally it does, resolved to leave me entirely 
w'ithout excuse. For if ,1 would not tate tliis for a 
deliverance, the next was to be such a one as the worst 
and most hardened wretch among us would confess 
both the danger and the mercy. 

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into 
Yarmouth roads ; the wind having been contrary and 
the weather calm, w^e had made but little way since the 
storm. Here we were obliged to come to an aiichor, 
and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz., at 
south-west, for seven or eight days, during which time 
a great many ships from Newcastle came into the same 
roads, as the common harbour where the*- ships might 
wait for a wind for the river. 

We had not, however, rid here so long, but should 
have tided it up the river, hut that the wind blew too 
fresh ; and after w-e had lain four or five days, blew 
very hard. However, the roads being reckoned as 
good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our 
ground-tackle very strong, our men were unconcerned, 
and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but spent 
the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the sea; 
but the eighth day in the morning the wind increased, 
and we had all hands at work to strike our topmasts. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 9 

and make everything snug and close, that the ship 
might ride as easy as possible. By noon the sea went 
very high indeed, and our ship rid forecastle in, shipjjed 
several seas, and we thought once or twice our anchor 
had come home ; upon which our master ordered out 
the sheet-anchor, so that we rode with two anchors 
ahead, and the cables veered out to the better end. 

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed, and 
now 1 began to see terror and amazement in the faces 
even of the seamen themselves. The master, though 
vigilant to the business of preserving the ship, yet as he 
went in and out of his cabin by me, 1 could hear him 
softly to himself say several times, ‘ Lord be merciful 
to us, we shall be all lost, we shall be all undone * ; 
and the like. During these first hurries I was stupid, 
lying still in my cabin, which was in tfto steerage, and 
cannot describe my temper ; I could ill reassumc the 
first penitence, which 1 had, so apparently trampled 
upon, and hardened myself against ; 1 thought the 
bitterness of death had been past, and that this would 
be nothing too, like the first. But when the master 
himself came by me, as 1 said just now, and said we 
should be all lost, 1 was dreadfully frighted ; I got 
up out of my cabin, and looked out. But such a 
dismal sight I nev6r saw; the sea went mountains high, 
and broke upon us every three or four minutes ; when 
I could look about, 1 could see nothing but distress 
round us. Two ships that rid near us we found had 
cut their masts by the board, being deep loaden ; and 
our men cried out, that a ship which rid about a mile 
ahead of us was foundered. Two more ships being 
driven from tlieir anchoirs, were run out of the roads to 
sea at all adventures, and that with not a mast standing. 
The light ships fared the best, as not so much labouring 
in the sea ; but two or three of them drove, and came 
close by us, running away with only their sprit- sail 
out before the wind. 

Towards evening the mate and boatsw^ain begged 
the master of our ship to let them cut away the fore- 
mast, which he was very^ unwilling to. But the 



10 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

boatswain protesting to him that if he did not the ship 
would founder, he consented ; and when they had cut 
away the foremast, the mainmast stood so loose, and 
shook the ship so much, they were obliged to cut her 
away also, and make a clear deck. 

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at 
all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been 
in such a fright before at but a little. Hut if I can 
express at this distance the thoughts 1 had about mo 
at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind 
upon account of my former convictions, and the having 
returned from them to the resolutions I had wickedly 
taken at first, than I was at death itself; and these, 
added to the terror of the storm, put me into such a 
condition, that I can by no words describe it. Hut the 
worst was not come yet ; the storm continued with such 
fury, that the seamen themselves acknowledged they 
had never known a worse. We had a good ship, but 
sIjo was deep loaden, and wallowed in the sea, that the 
seamen every now and then cried out she would founder. 
It was my advantage in one respect, that I did not know 
what they meant by founder till I inquired. However, 
the storm w'as so violent, that I saw what is not often 
seen, the master, the boatswain, and some others more 
sensible than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting 
every moment when the ship would go to the bottom. 
In the middle of the night, and under all the rest of 
our distresses, one of the men that had been down -on 
purpose to see cried out we had sprung a leak ; another 
said there was four foot water in the hold. Then all 
hands were called to the pump. At that very word my 
heart, as I thought, died within me, and 1 fell backwards 
upon the side of my bed where I sat, into the cabin. 
However, the men roused me, and told me, that I, 
that was able to do nothing before, was as well able to 
pump as another ; at which 1 stirred up and went to 
the pump and worked very heartily. While this was 
doing, the master seeing some light colliers, who, not 
able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip and run 
away to sea, and would cccne near us, ordered to fire a 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 11 


gun as a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing what 
that meant^ was so surprised that I thought the ship 
had broke, or some dreadful thing had happened. In 
a word, I was so surprised that I fell down in a swoon. 
As this was a time when everybody had his own life to 
think of, nobody minded me, or what was become of 
me ; but another man stepped up to the pump, and 
thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking I 
had been dead ; and it was a great while before I came 
to myself. 

We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold, 
it was apparent that the ship would founder, and though 
the storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not 
possible she could swim till we might run into a port, 
so the master continued firing guns for help ; and a 
light ship, who had rid it out just aheacf of us, ventured 
a boat out to help us. It was with the utmost hazard 
the boat came near us, but it, was impossible for us to 
get on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship's side, 
till at last the men rowing very heartily, and venturing 
their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over 
the stern with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a 
great length, which they after great labour and hazard 
took hold of, and we hauled them close under our stern, 
and got all into their boat. It was to no purpose for 
them or us after we were in the boat to think of reach- 
ing to their own ship, so all agreed to let her drive, and 
only to pull her in towards shore as much as we could, 
and our master promised them that if the boat was 
staved upon shore ne would make it good to their master ; 
so partly rowing and partly driving, our boat went away 
to the norward, sloping towards the shore almost as far 
as W interton Ness. 

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour 
out of our ship but we saw her sink, and then I under- 
stood for the first time what was meant by a ship founder- 
ing in the sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes 
to look up when the seamen told me she was sinking ; 
for from that moment they rather put me into the boat 
than that I might be said to* go in ; my heart was as it 



12 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

were dead withinme, partly with fright, partly with horror 
of mind and the thoughts of what was yet before me. 

While we were in this condition, the men yet labour- 
ing at the oar to bring the boat near the shore, wo could 
see, when, our boat mounting the waves, we were able 
to see the shore, a great many people running along the 
shore to assist us when we should come near. But we 
made but slow way towards the shore, nor were we 
abli* to reach the shore, till being past the lighthouse 
at W'interton, the shore falls off to the westward towards 
Cromer, and so the land broke oif a little the violence 
of the wind. Here we got in, and thoagh not without 
much difficulty got all safe on shore, and walked after- 
wards on foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, 
we were used with great humanity as well by the 
magistrates of tue town, who assigned us good quarters, 
as by particular merchants and owners of ships, and had 
money given us sufficient to carry us either to Loudon 
or hack to II ull, as we thought ht. 

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, 
and have gone home, I had been happy, and my father, 
an emblem of our blessed Saviour’s parable, had even 
killed the fatted calf for me ; for hearing the ship I 
went away in W'as cast away in Yarmouth road, it was 
a great while before he had any assurance that I was 
not drowned. 

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy 
tliat nothing could resist ; and though I had several 
times loud calls from my reason and my more com- 
posed judgment to go home, yet I had no power to do 
it. 1 know not what to call this, nor will I urge that 
it is a secret overruling decree that hurries us on to be 
the instruments of our own destruction, even though it 
be before us, and that we rush upon it with our eyes 
open. Certainly nothing but some such decreed un- 
avoidable misery attending, and which it was impossible 
for me to es(;ape, could have pushed me forward against 
the calm reasonings and persuasions of my most retired 
thoughts, and against two such visible instructions as I 
had met with in my first attempt. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 13 


My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, 
and who was the master s son, was now less forward 
than I. "Hie first time he spoke to me after we were at 
Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days, for 
we were separated in the town to several quarters — 
I say, the first time he saw me, it appeared his tone 
was altered, and looking very melancholy and shaking 
his head, asked me how I did, and telling his father 
who I was, and how 1 had come this voyage only for 
a trial in order to go farther abroad, his father turning 
to me with a very grave and concerned tone, ^ Young 
man," says he, 'you ought never to go to sea any 
more, you ought to take this for a plain and visible 
token, that you are not to be a seafaring man.’ ' Why, 
sir,* said 1, 'will you go to sea no more.^* 'That is 
another case,’ said he ; 'it is my calling, and there- 
fore my duty ; but as you made this voyage for a trial, 
you see what a taste Heaver^ has given you of >vhat 
you are to expect if you persist ; perhaps this is all 
befallen us on your account, like Jonah in the ship of 
Tarshish. Pray,* continues he, 'what are you.^ and 
on vrhat account did you go to sea?* Upon that I 
told him some of my story, at the end of which he 
burst out with a strange kind of passion. ' What had 
I done*,’ says he, ' that such an unhappy wretch should 
come into my ship? I would not set my foot in the 
same ship with thee again for a thousand pounds.* 
This indeed was, as 1 said, an excursion of his spirits, 
which w^ere yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and 
was fartlier than he could have authority to go. flow- 
ever, ho afterwards talked very gravely to me, exhorted 
me to go back to my father, and not tempt Providence 
to my ruin ; told me 1 might see a visible hand of 
Heaven against me. ' And, young man,* said he, 
'depend upon it, if you do not go back, wherever you 
go you will meet with nothing but disasters and dis- 
appointments, till your father’s words are fulfilled upon 
you.* 

\Ye parted soon after ; for I made him little answer, 
and 1 saw him no more ; wliich way he went, 1 know 



14 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


not. As for me, having some money in my pocket, I 
travelled to London by land ; and there, as well as on 
the road, had many struggles with myself what course 
of life 1 should take, and whether I should go home, 
or go to sea. 

As to going home, shame opposed the best motions 
that offered to my thoughts ; and it immediately 
occurred to me how I should be laughed at among the 
neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not my 
father and mother only, but even everybody else ; from 
whence 1 have since often observed how incongruous 
and irrational the common temper of mankind is, 
especially of youth, to that reason which ought to 
guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not 
ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent ; not 
ashamed of th^ action for which they ought justly to 
be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the returning, 
which only can make th^n be esteemed wise men. 

In this state of life, however, 1 remained some time, 
dncertain what measures to take, and what course of 
life to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to 
going home ; and as I stayed a while, the remem- 
brance of the distress I had been in wore off ; and as 
that abated, the little motion I had in my desires to a 
return wore off with it, till at last 1 quite laid aside tlie 
thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage. 

That evil influence which carried me first away from 
my father 8 house, that hurried me into the wild and 
indigested notion of raising my fortune, and that im- 
pressed those conceits so forcibly upon me as to make 
me deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties and 
even command of my father — I say, the same influence, 
whatever it was, presented the most unfortunate of all 
enterprises to my view ; and I went on board a vessel 
bound to the coast of Africa, or, as our sailors vulgarly 
call it, a voyage to Guinea. 

It was my great misfortune that in all these adven- 
tures I did not ship myself as a sailor, whereby, though 
I might indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary, 
yet at the same time I had learned the duty and office 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 15 


of a foremast man, and in time might have qualified 
myself for a mate or lieutenant, if not for a master. 
But as it was always my fate to choose for the worse, 
so I did here ; for having money in my pocket, and 
good clothes upon my back, 1 would always go on 
board in the habit of a gentleman ; and so 1 neither 
had any business in the sliip, or learned to do any. 

It was my lot first of adl to fall into pretty good 
company in London, which does not always happen to 
such loose and misguided young fellows as I then was ; 
the devil generally not omitting to lay some snare for 
them very early ; but it was not so with me. I first fell 
ac<iuainted with the master of a ship who had been on 
the coast of Guinea, and who, having had very good 
success there, was resolved to go again ; and who, taking 
a fancy to my conversation, which wa# not at all dis- 
figreeable at that time, hearing me say I had a mind to 
see the world, told me if I w^uld go the voyage with 
him 1 should be at no expense ; 1 should be his mess- 
mate and his companion ; and if I could carry anything 
with me, I should have all the advantage of it that the 
trade would admit, and perhaps 1 might meet with some 
encouragement. 

1 embraced the, offer ; and, entering into a strict 
friends-hip with this captain, who was an honest and 
plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and 
carried a small adventure with me, which, by the dis- 
interested honesty of my friend the captain, I increased 
very considerably, for I carried about £d0 in such 
toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy. This 
£40 i had mustered together by the assistance of some 
of my relations whom I corresponded with, and who, 
I .believe, got my father, or at least my mother, to con- 
tribute so much as that to my first adventure. 

This was the only voyage which 1 may say was 
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to the 
integA*ity and honesty of my friend the captain ; under 
whom also 1 got a competent knowledge of the mathe- 
matics and the rules of navigation, learned how to keep 
an account of the ship’s cQ;n*se, take an observation. 



16 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


and, in short, to understand some things that were 
needful to be understood by a sailor. For, as he took 
delight to introduce me, I took delight to learn ; and, 
in a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a 
merchant ; for 1 brought home five pounds nine ounces 
of gold dust for my adventure, which yielded me in 
London at my return almost £«‘100, and this filled me 
with those aspiring thoughts which have since so com- 
pleted my ruin. 

Yet even in this voyage 1 had my misfortunes too ; 
particularly, that I was continually sick, being thrown 
into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the 
climate ; our principal trading being upon the coast, 
from the latitude of 15 degrees north even to the line 
itself. 

I was now set^^ap for a Guinea trader ; and my friend, 
to my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, J 
resolved to go the same yoyage again, and I embarked 
in the same vessel with one who was his mate in the 
former voyage, and had now got the command of the 
ship. This Wcas the unlyippiest voyage that ever man 
made ; for though I did not carrv quite £100 of my 
new-gained wealth, so that J had J&200 left, and which 
I lodged with my friend’s vddow, who was very just 
to me, yet 1 fell into terrible misfortunes in tliis voyage ; 
and the first was this, viz., our ship making her course 
towards tlie Canary Islands, or rather between those 
i«?lands and the African shore, was surprised in the grey 
of the morning by a ’I'urkish rover of Sallee, who gave 
chase to us with all the sail she could make. We 
crowded also as mucli canvas as our yards would spread, 
or our masts carry, to have got clear ; but finding the 
pirate gained upon us, and would certainly come up 
with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight, our ship 
having twelve guns, and the rogue eighteen. About 
three in the afternoon he came up with us, and bring- 
ing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead of 
athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought eight of 
our guns to bear on that side, and poured in a broad- 
side upon him, which made him sheer off again, after 



ADVENTURES OF ROBJNSON CRUSOE 17 


returning our fire und pouring in also liis small-sliot 
from near 200 men which ho had on board. However, 
we had not a man touched, all our men ketipiiig close. 
He prepared to attack us again, and we to defend our- 
selves ; but laying us on board the next time upon our 
other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, 
who immediately fell to cutting and hacking the decks 
and rigging. We plied them with small-shot, half- 
pikes, powder-chests, and such like, and cleared our 
deck of them twice. However, to cut short this 
melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled, 
and three of our men killed and eight wounded, we 
were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners 
into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors. 

The usage 1 had there was not so dreiylful as at first 
1 apprehended, nor was 1 carried up the country to the 
emperoFs court, as the rest of our men were, but was 
kept by the captain of the rower as his proper prize, 
and made his slave, being young and nimble, and fit for 
his business. At this surprising change of my circum- 
stances from a merchant to a miserable slave, I was 
perfectly overwhelmed ; and now 1 looked hack upon 
my father’s prophetic discourse to me, that 1 should be 
miserable, and have none to relieve me, which I thought 
was iioW so elfcc/tiially brought to pass, that it could 
not he worse ; that now the hand of Heaven had 
overtaken me, and 1 was undone without redemption. 
But alas ! this w^as but a taste of the misery I was to 
go through, as will appear in* the sequel of this story. 

As my now patron, or master, had taken me home to 
his house, so 1 was in hopes that he would take me 
with him when he went to sea again, believing that it 
would some time or other be his fate to be tiiken by 
a Spanish or Portugal man-of-war ; and that then 1 
should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was 
soon taken away ; for when he went to sea, he left me 
on shore to look after his little garden, and do the 
common drudgery of slaves about his house ; and 
when he came home again from his cruise, he ordered 
me to lie in the cabin to lookfifter the ship. 

0 



18 ADVEOTURES OF* ROBINSON CRUSOE 

Here I meditated nothing but my escape^ and what 
method I mig^ht take to effect it, but found no way that 
had the least probability in it. Nothing presented to 
make the supposition of it rational ; for I had nobody 
to communicate it to that would embark with me, no 
fellow -slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotsman 
there but myself ; so that for two years, though I 
often pleased myself with the imagination, yet I never 
had tlie least encouraging prospect of putting it in 
practice. 

After about two years an odd circumstance presented 
itself, which put tlie old thought of making some 
attempt for my liberty again in my head. My patron 
lying at home longer than usual without fitting out his 
ship, which, as 1 heard, was for want of money, he 
used constanlly, once or twice a week, sometimes 
oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's 
pinnace, and go out into the road a-fishing ; and as he 
always took me and a young Maresco with him to row 
the boat, we made him very merry, and I proved very 
dexterous in catching fish ; insomuch, that sometimes 
he would send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, 
and the youth the Maresco, as they called him, to 
catch a dish of fish for him. 

It happened one time that, going a-fishing in a stark 
calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we 
were not half a league from the shore we lost sight of 
it ; and rowing we knew not whither or which way, 
we laboured all day, and all the next night, and when 
the morning came we found we had pulled off to sea 
instead of pulling in for the shore ; and that we were 
at least two leagues from the shore. However, we got 
well in again, though with a great deal of labour, 
and some danger, for the wind began to blow pretty 
fresh in the morning ; but particularly we were all 
very hungry. 

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to 
take more care of himself for the future ; and having 
lying by him the long-boat of our English ship which 
he had taken, he resoli^ed he would not go a-fishing 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 19 

any more without a compass and some provision ; so 
he ordered the carpenter of his ship, who also was an 
English slave, to huild a little state-room, or cabin, in 
the middle of the long-boat, like thAt of a barge, with 
a place to stiind behind it to steer and haul home the 
main-sheet, and room before for a hand or two to stand 
and work the sails. She sailed with what we call a 
shoulder-of-mutton sail ; and the boom jibbed over the 
top of the cabin, which lay very snug and low, and had 
in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a 
table to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some 
bottles of such liquor as he thought lit to drink ; 
particularly his bread, rice, and coffee. 

We went frequently out with this boat; a- fishing, 
and as 1 was most dexterous to catch f^h for him, he 
never went without me. It happenea that he had 
appointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or 
for fish, with two or three Moons of some distinction in 
that place, and for whom he had provided extra- 
ordinarily ; and had therefore sent on board the boat 
overnight a larger store of provisions than ordinary ; 
and had ordered me to get ready three fuzees with 
powder and shot, which were on board his ship, for 
that they designed some sport of fowling as well as 
fishing. 

1 got all things ready as he had directed, and waited 
the next morning with the boat, washed clean, her 
ancient and pendants out, and everything to accom- 
modate his guests ; when by and by my patron came on 
board alone, and told me his guests had put off going, 
upon some business that fell out, and ordered me with 
the man and boy, as usual, to go out with the boat and 
catch them some fish, for that his friends were to sup 
at his house ; and commanded that as soon as I had 
got some fish 1 should bring it home to his house ; all 
which I prepared to do. 

Thisrmoment my former notions of deliverance darted 
into my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a 
little ship at my command ; and my master being gone, 
I prepared to furnish myself, aot for a fishing business. 



20 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


but for a voyaf^e ; though 1 knew not, neither did I so 
much as consider, whither I should steer; for anywhere, 
to get out of that place, was my way. 

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak 
to this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on 
board ; for 1 told him we must not presume to eat of 
our patron’s bread. He said that was true ; so he 
brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit of their kind, 
and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I knew 
where my patron’s case of bottles stood, which it was 
evident by the make were taken out of some English 
prize ; and I conveyed them into the boat while the 
Moor was on shore, as if they had been there before 
for our majiter. 1 conveyed also a great lump of beeswax 
into the boak, which weighed above half a hundred- 
weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a 
saw, and a hammer, all which were great use to us after- 
wards, especially the wax to make candles. Another 
trick 1 tried upon him, which he innocently came into 
also. His name was Ismael, who they call Muly, or 
Moely ; so 1 called to him, ^Moely,' said I, ^our patron’s 
guns are on board the boat ; can you not get a little 
powder and shot ? it may be we may kill some alcamies 
(a fowl like our curlews) for ourselves, for 1 know he 
keeps the gunner’s stores in the ship.’ ^ Yes,’’ says he, 
‘ I’ll bring some ’ ; and accordingly he brought a great 
leather pouch which held about a pound and a half of 

E owder, or rather more ; and another with shot, that 
ad five or six pounds, with some bullets, and put all 
into the boat. At the same time T had found some 
powder of my master’s in the great cabin, with which I 
filled one of the large bottles in the case, which was 
almost empty, pouring what was in it into another ; 
and thus furnished with everything needful, we sailed 
out of the port to fish. The castle, which is at the 
entrance of the port, knew who we were, and took no 
notice of us ; and we were not above a mile out* of the 
port before we hauled in our sail, and set us down to 
fish. The wind blew from the N.N.E., which was 
contrary to my desire; '‘for had it blown southerly I 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 21 

had been sure to have made the coast of Spain, and at 
least reached to the bay of Cadiz ; but my resolutions 
were, blow which way it would, I would be g^one from 
the horrid place where 1 was, and leave the rest to 
Fate. 

After wii had hshed some time and catched nothing*, 
for when i had fish on my hook I would not pull them 
up, that he might not see them, 1 said to the Moor, 
‘ lliis will not do ; our master will not be thus served ; 
we must stand farther off.’ lie, thinking no barm, 
agreed, and being in the head of the boat set the sails ; 
and as I had the helm 1 run the boat out near a league 
farther, and tlien brought her to as if J would fish ; 
when giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward to 
where tlie Moor wOvS, and making as if I stooped for 
something behind him, I took him by surprise with my 
arm under his twist, and tossed him clear overboard 
into the sea. He rose immediately, for he swam like 
a cork, and called to me, begged to be taken in, told 
me he would go all the world over with me. He swam 
.so strong after the boat, that he would have reached 
me very quickly, there being but little wind ; upon 
whicli 1 stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the 
fowling-pieces, I presented it at him, and told him 1 
had done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I 
would do him none. ‘But,’ said I, ‘you swim well 
enough to reach to the shore, and the sea is calm ; 
make the best of your way to shore, and 1 will do you 
no harm ; but if you come, near the boat I’ll shoot 
you through the head, for 1* am resolved to have my 
liberty.’ So he turned himself about, and swam for 
the shore, and 1 make no doubt but he reached it with 
ease, for he was an excellent swimmer. 

I could have been content to have taken this Moor 
with mo, and have drowned the boy, but there was no 
venturing to trust him. When he was gone I turned 
to the.boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him, 
‘ Xury, if you will be faithful to me I’ll make you a 
great man ; but if you will not stroke your face to he 
true to me,’ that is, swear by jyiahomet and his father’s 



22 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

beard; must throw you into the sea too.' The boy 
smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I 
could not mistrust him, and swore to be faithful to me, 
and g’o all over the world with me. 

While 1 was in view of the Moor that was swimming, 
I stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather 
stretching to windward, that they might think me gone 
towards tlie straits' mouth (as indeed any one that had 
been in their wits must have been supposed to do) ; for 
who would have supposed we were sailed on to the south- 
ward to the truly barbarian coast, where whole nations 
of negroes were sure to surround us with their canoes, 
and destroy us ; where we could ne'er once go on shore 
but we should he devoured by savage beasts, or more 
merciless savages of human kind ? 

But as sootf-as it grew dusk in the evening, 1 changed 
my course, and steered directly south and by east, 
bending my course a little toward the east, that I might 
keep in with the shore ; and having a fair, fresh gale 
of wind, and a smooth, quiet sea, I made such sail that 
I believe by the next day at three o’clock in the 
afternoon, when 1 first made the land, I could not be 
less than 150 miles south of Sallee ; quite beyond the 
Emperor of Morocco’s dominions, or indeed of any 
other king thereabouts, for we saw no people. . 

Yet such was the fright 1 had taken at the Moors, 
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into 
their hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore, or 
come to an anchor, the wjnd continuing fair, till I had 
sailed in that manner five days ; and then the wind 
shifting to the southward, 1 concluded also that if any 
of our vessels were in chase of me, they also would 
now give over ; so 1 ventured to make to the coast, and 
came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river, 1 knew 
not what, or where ; neither what latitude, what country, 
what nations, or what river. 1 neither saw, or desired to 
see, any people ; the principal thing I wanted ws^s fresh 
water. We came into tnis creek in the evening, 
resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and 
discover the country ; b^t as soon as it was quite dark 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 23 

we heard such dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, 
and howling of wild creatures, of we knew not what 
kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with fear, 
and begged of me not to go on shore till day. * Well, 
Xury,' said J, ^ then I won’t ; but it may be we may 
see men by day, who will be as bad to us as those 
lions.’ ^ llien we give them the shoot gun,’ says Xury, 
laughing ; ‘ make them run away.* Such English 
Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. However, 
1 was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him a 
dram (out of our patron’s case of bottles) to cheer him 
up. After all, Xury’s advice was good, and 1 took it ; 
we dropped our little anchor and lay still all night. 1 
say still, for we slept none ; for in two or three hours 
we saw vast great creatures (we knew not what to call 
them) of many sorts come down to th^ sea-shore and 
run into the water, wallowing and washing themselves 
for the pleasure of cooling themselves ; and they made 
such hideous bowlings and yelling.s, that 1 never indeed 
heard the like. 

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was 1 
too ; but we were both more frighted wlien v e heard 
one of these mighty creatures come swimming towards 
our boat ; we could not see him, but we might hear 
him by .his blowing to be a monstrous huge and furious 
beast. Xury said it was a lion, and it might be so for 
aught I know ; but poor Xury cried to me to weigh 
the anchor and row away. ^ No,’ says 1, ^Xury; 
we can slip our cable with the buoy to it, and go off 
to sea ; they cannot follow us far.’ 1 had no sooner 
said so, but I perceived the creature (whatever it was) 
within two oars’ length, which something surprised me ; 
however, I immediately stepped to the cabin door, 
and taking up my gun, fired at him, upon which he 
immediately turned about and swam towards the sliore 
again. 

Bi]|^ it is impossible to describe the horrible noises, 
and hideous cries and bowlings, that were raised, as 
well upon tlie edge of the shore as higher within the 
country, upon the noise or report of the gun, a thing 



24 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


I have some reason to believe those creatures had 
never heard before. This convinced me tliat there 
was no goin^ on shore for us in the night upon that 
coast ; and how to venture on shore in the day was 
another question too ; for to have fallen into the 
hands of any of the savages, had been as bad as 
to have fallen into the hands of lions and tigers ; 
at least we were equally apprehensive of the danger 
of it. 

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore 
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint 
left in the boat ; when or where to get to it, was the 
point. Xury said if 1 would let him go on shore 
with one of the jars, he would find if there was any 
water and bring some to me. I asked him why he 
would go.^ why I should not go and he stay in the 
boat? The boy answered with so much affection, that 
made me love him ever after. Says he, ^Jf wild 
mans come, they eat me, you go way.’ ^Well, 
Xury,' said I, ^ we will both go ; and if the wild mans 
come, we will kill them, they shall eat neither of us.’ 
So 1 gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a 
dram out of our patron’s case of bottles which 1 
mentioned before ; and we hauled in the boat as near 
the shore as we thought was proper, and so waded on 
shore, carrying nothing but our arms and two jars for 
water. 

1 did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fejiring 
the coming of canoes with savages down the river ; but 
the boy seeing a low place about a mile uj) the country, 
rambled to it ; and by and by I saw him come running 
towards me. 1 thought he was pursued by some savage, 
or frighted with some wild beast, and 1 ran forward 
towards him to help him ; but when 1 came nearer to 
him, I saw something hanging over his shoulders, which 
was a creature that he had shot, like a hare, but difi'erent 
in colour, and longer legs. However, we were very glad 
of it, and it was very good meat ; but the great joy 
that poor Xury came with was to tell me he had found 
good water, and seen no wUd mans. 



ADVENlUllES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 25 

But we found afterwards that we need not take such 
pains for water, for a little higher up the creek where 
we were we found the water fresh when the tide was 
out, which flowed but a little way up ; so we filled our 
jars, and feasted on the hare we had killed, and prepared 
to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of any 
human creature in that part of the country. 

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I 
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and the 
Cape de Verde Islands also, lay not far off from the coast. 
But as I had no instruments 1o take an observation 
to know what latitude w^e w^ere in, and did not exactly 
know, or at least remember, what latitude they were in, 
1 knew not where to look for them, or w^hon to stand 
off to sea towards them ; otherwise 1 miglit now 
easily have found some of these islands. * But my hope 
w'as, that if 1 stood along this coast till I came to that 
part where the English tradec^, 1 should find some of 
their vessels upon their usual design of trade, that would 
relieve and take us in. 

By the best of my calculation, that place where I 
now was must be that country which, lying ]>etweeii 
the Emperor of Morocco's dominions and the negroes, 
lies waste and uninhabited, except by wild beasts ; the 
negroes having abandoned it and gone farther south for 
fear of the .Moors, and the Moors not thinking it 
worth inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness ; and 
indeed both forsaking it because of the prodigious 
numbers of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furious 
creatures which haj’bour there ; so that the Moors use 
it for their hunting only, where they go like an army, 
two or three thousand men at a time ; and indeed for 
near an hundred miles together upon this coast we saw 
nothing but a waste uninhabited country by day, and 
heard nothing but bowlings and roarings of wild beasts 
by night. 

Once or twice in the daytime 1 thought I saw the 
Pico of Tenerifte, being the high top of the Mountain 
Teneriffe in the Canaries, and had a great mind to 
venture out, in hopes of reac^^ing thither ; but having 



26 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


tried twice, I was forced in a^ain by contrary winds, 
the sea also going: too high for my little vessel ; so I 
resolved to pursue my first design, and keep along the 
shore. 

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water 
after we had left this place ; and once in particular, 
being early in the morning, we came to an anchor under 
a little point of land which was pretty high ; and the 
tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go farther in. 
Xury, whose eyes were more about him than it seems 
mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me that we had 
best go farther oflf the shore; ^ For,* says he, ^look, 
yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of that hillock 
fast asleep.* 1 looked where he pointed, and saw a 
dreadful monster indeed, for it was a terrible great lion 
that lay on the? side of the shore, under the shade of a 
piece of the hill that hung as it were a little over him. 

‘ Xury,* says 1, ^you sh^ll go on shore and kill him.* 
Xury looked frighted, and said, ^ Me kill ! he eat me at 
one mouth* ; one mouthful he meant. However, 1 said 
no more to the boy, but bade him lie still, and I took 
our biggest gun, which was almost musket-bore, and 
loaded it with a good charge of powder, and with two 
slugs, and laid it down ; then 1 loaded another gun 
with two bullets ; and the third (for we had three pieces) 
1 loaded with five smaller bullets. 1 took the best aim 
I could with the first piece to have shot him into the 
head, but he lay so with his leg raised a little above his 
nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee, and 
broke the bone. He started up growling at first, but 
finding his leg broke, fell down again, and then got up 
upon three legs and gave the most hideous roar that 
ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had not 
hit him on the head. However, 1 took up the second 
piece immediately, and, though he began to move off, 
fired again, and shot him into the head, and had the 
pleasure to see him drop, and make but little, noise, 
but lay struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and 
would have me let him go on shore. ^Well, go^ 
said 1 ; so the boy jump^ into the water, and taking a 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 27 


little gun in one baiid^ swam to shore with the other 
hand^ and coming close to the creature, put the muzzle 
of the piece to his ear, and shot him into the head again, 
which despatched him quite. 

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food ; 
and I was very sorry to lose three charges of powder 
and shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to 
us. However, Xury said he would have some of him ; 
so he comes on hoard, and asked me to give him the 
hatchet. ^ For what, Xury?* said 1. ^ Me cut off 

his head,* said he. However, Xury could not cut off 
his head, hut he cut off a foot, and brought it with him, 
and it was a monstrous great one. 

1 bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of 
him might one way or other be of some value to us ; 
and I resolved to take oft* his skin ff I could. So 
Xury and I went to work with him ; hut Xury w^as much 
the better workman at it, for, I knew very ill how to 
do it. Indeed, it took us up both the whole day, but 
at last wo got off the hide of him, and spreading it on 
the top of our cabin, the sun effectually dried it in two 
days’ time, and it afterwards served me to lie upon. 

After this stop we made on to the southward con- 
tinually for ten or twelve days, living very sparing on 
our previsions, which began to abate very much, and 
going no oftener into tlie shore than we w ere obliged to 
for fresh water. My design in this was to make the 
river Gambia or JSenegal — that is to say, anywhere 
about the C-ape de Verde-^-where I was in hopes to 
meet with some European’ ship ; and if 1 did not, 1 
know not what course I had to take, but to seek out 
for the islands, or perish there among the negroes. 1 
knew that all the ships from Europe, which sailed 
either to the coast of Guinea or to Brazil, or to the 
East Indies, made this cape, or those islands ; and in 
a word, 1 put the whole of my fortune upon this single 
pointy either that 1 must meet with some ship, or must 
perish. 

When 1 had pursued this resolution about ten days 
longer, as I have said, I begap to see that the laud was 



28 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

inhabited ; and in two or three places, as we sailed by,^ 
we saw people stand upon the shore to look at us ; wo 
could also perceive they were quite black, and stark 
naked. 1 was once inclined to have gone on shore to 
them ; but Xury w'as my better counsellor, and said to 
me, ^No go, no go.’ However, I hauled in nearer the 
shore that I might talk to 'them, and 1 found they ran 
along the shore by me a good way. I observed they 
had no weapons in their hands, except one, who had 
a long slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, and 
that they would throw them a great way with good 
aim. So I kept at a distance, but talked with them by 
signs as well as I could, and particularly made signs for 
something Lo eat ; they beckoned to me to stop my 
boat, and that they would fetch me some meat. Upon 
this I lowered flie top of my sail, and lay by, and two 
of them ran up into the country, and in less than half 
an hour came l)ack, and brought with them two pieces 
of dried flesh and some corn, such as is the produce of 
their country ; but we neither knew what the one or the 
other was. However, we were willing lo accept it, but 
how to come at it was our next dispute, for I was not 
for venturing on shore to them, and they were as much 
afraid of us ; but they took a safe way for us all, for 
they brought it to the shore and laid it down, and went 
and stood a great way off till we fetched it on board, 
and then came close to us again. 

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had 
nothing to make them amends. But an opportunity 
offered that very instant to oblige them wonderfully ; 
for while we were lying by the shore came two 
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took 
it) with great fury from the mountains towards the 
sea ; whether it was the male pursuing the female, 
or whether they were in sport or in rage, we could 
not tell, any more than we could tell whether it was 
usual or strange, but I believe it was the litter ; 
because, in the first place, those ravenous creatures 
seldom appear but in the night ; and in the second 
place, we found the people terribly frighted, especially 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 29 


the woinen. The man that had the lance or dart 
did not fly from them^ but the rest did ; however, as 
the two creatures ran directly into the water, they 
did not seem to offer to fall upon any of the negroes, 
but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam about, 
as if they had come for their diversion. At last, one 
of them began to come nearer our boat than at first 
I expected ; but 1 lay ready for him, for I had loaded 
my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury 
load both the others. As soon as he came fairly 
within my reach, I fired, and shot him directly 
into the head ; immediately he sunk down into the 
water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and down, 
as if he was struggling for life, and so indeed he was. 
He immediately made to the shore ; ljut between the 
wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the strangling 
of the water, he died just before he reached the shore. 

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these 
poor creatures, at the noise and the fire of my gun ; 
some of them were even ready to die for fear, and fell 
down as dead with the very terror. But when they 
saw the creature dead, and sunk in the water, and that 
I made signs to them to come to the shore, they 
took heart and came to the shore, and began to search 
for the creature. I found him by his blood staining 
the water : and by the help of a rope, which I slung 
round him, and gave the negroes to haul, they dragged 
him on the shore, and found that it was a most curious 
leopard, spotted, and fine to an admirable degree ; and 
the negroes held up their hands with admiration, to 
think what it was 1 had killed him with. 

The other creature, frighted wdlh the flash of fire 
and the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up 
directly to the mountains from whence they came ; nor 
could I, at that distance, know what it was. J found 
quickly the negroes were for eating the flesh of this 
creathre, so I was willing to have them take it as a 
favour from me ; which, when I made signs to them 
that they might take him, they were very thankful for. 
Immediately they fell to work with him ; and though 



30 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

they had no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of wood, 
they took oflf his skin as readily, and much more 
readily, than we could have done with a knife. They 
offered me some of the flesh, which 1 declined, making 
as if 1 would give it them, but made signs for the 
skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought 
me a great deal more of their provision, which, though 
I did not understand, yet I accepted. Then I made 
signs to them for some water, and held out one of 
my jars to them, turning it bottom upward, to show 
that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it filled. 
They called immediately to some of their friends, 
and there came two women, and brought a great 
vessel made of earth, and burnt, as 1 suppose, in the 
sun ; this they set down for me, as before, and I 
sent Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them all 
three. ITie women were as stark naked as the men. 

1 was now furnished with roots and corn, such as 
it was, and water ; and leaving my friendly negroes, 
I made forward for about eleven days more, without 
offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run 
out a great length into the sea, at about the distance 
of four or five leagues before me ; and the sea being 
very calm, I kept a large offing, to make this point. 
At length, doubling the point, at about two leagues 
from the land, 1 saw plainly land on the other side, 
to seaward ; then I concluded, as it was most certain 
indeed, that this was the Cape de Verde, and those 
the islands, called from thence Cape de Verde Islands. 
However, they were at a great distance, and I could 
not well tell what I had best to do ; for if I should 
be taken with a fresh of wind, I might neither reach 
one or other. 

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into 
the cabin, and sat me down, Xury having the helm ; 
when, on a sudden, the boy cried out, ^ Master, master, 
a ship with a sail ! * and the foolish boy was frighted 
out of his wits, thinking it must needs be some of his 
master’s ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were 
gotten far enough out of their reach. I jumped out of 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 31 

the cabin, and immediately fsaw, not only the ship, but 
what she was, viz., that it was a Portuguese ship, and, 
as J thought, was bound to the coast of Guinea, for 
negroes. But when I observed the course she steered, 
I was soon convinced they were bound some other way, 
and did not design to come any nearer to the shore : 
upon which I stretched out to sea as much as 1 could, 
resolving to speak with them, if possible. 

With all the sail 1 could make, 1 found 1 should 
not be able to come in their way, but that they would 
be gone by before I could make any signal to them ; 
but after I had crowded to the utmost, and began to 
despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help of their per- 
spective glasses, and that it was some European boat, 
which, as they supposed, must belong to, some ship that 
was lost, so they shortened sail to let me come up. I 
was encouraged with this ; and as 1 had my patron's 
ancient on board, I made a wift of it to them for a 
signal of distress, and fired a gun, both which they saw ; 
for they told me they saw the smoke, though they did 
not hear the gun. Upon these signals they very kindly 
brought to, and lay by for me ; and in about three 
hours' time 1 came up with them. 

lliey asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in 
Spanisll, and in French, but I understood none of 
them ; but at last a Scots sailor, who was on board, 
called to me, and I answered him, and told him I was 
an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of 
slavery from the IMoors, at Sallee. Then they bade 
me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and 
all my goods. 

It was an inexpressible joy to me, that any one will 
believe, that 1 was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, 
from such a miserable, and almost hopeless, condition 
as 1 was in ; and 1 immediately offered all 1 had to the 
captain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance. 
But he generously told me he would take nothing from 
me, but that all I had should be delivered safe to me 
when I came to the Brazils. ^For,' says he, have 
saved your life on no other torms than I would be glad 



32 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

to be s?ived myself ; and it may, one time or otliev, be 
my lot to be taken uj» in the same condition. Besides,’ 
says he, ‘^when I carry you to the Brazils, so great a 
way from your own country, if 1 should take from you 
what you have, you will be starved there, and then 1 
only take away that life I have given. No, no. Seignior 
Inglese,’ says he, ‘ Mr. Englishman, I will carry you 
thither in charity, and those things will help you to buy 
your subsistence there, and your passage home again.’ 

As he was charitable in his proposal, so he was just 
in the performance to a tittle ; for l)e ordered the sea- 
men that none should olfer to touch anything I had ; 
then he took everything into his own possession, and 
gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I might 
have them, ev^n so much as my three earthen jars. 

As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he 
saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the ship’s 
use, and asked me wha% 1 would have for it ? 1 told 
him he had been so generous to me in everything, that 
1 could not offer to make any price of the boat, but 
left it entirely to him ; upon which he told me he 
would give me a note of his hand to pay rue eighty 
pieces of eight for it at Brazil, and when it came there, 
if any one offered to give more, he would make it up. 
He offered me also sixty pieces of eight more’ for my 
boy Xury, which I w^as loth to take ; not that I was 
not willing to let the captain have him, but 1 was very 
loth to sell the poor boy’s liberty, who had assisted me 
so faithfully in procuring my own. However, when I 
let him know my reason, he owned it to he just, and 
offered me this medium, that he would give the boy an 
obligation to set him free in ten years if be turned 
Christian. Upon this, and Xury saying he w^as willing 
to go to him, I let the captain have him. 

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and 
arrived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints’ 
Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And now I was 
once more delivered from the most miserable of ail 
conditions of life ; and what to do next with myself, 
I was now to consider. • 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 33 


The generous treatment the captain gave me^ 1 can 
never enough remember. He would take nothing of 
me for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the 
leopard's skin, and forty for the lion’s skin, which 1 
had in my boat, and caused everything 1 had in the 
ship to be punctually delivered me ; and what I was 
willing to sell he bought, such as the case of bottles, 
two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of beeswax — 
for 1 had made candles of the rest ; in a word, I made 
about 220 pieces of eight of all my cargo, and with this 
stock 1 went on shore in the Brazils. 

1 had not been long here, hut being recommended 
to the house of a good honest man like himself, who 
had an ingeino as they call it, that is, a plantation and 
a sugar-house, 1 li\'ed with him some time, and ac- 
quainted myself by that means with the manner of 
their planting and making of sugar ; and seeing how 
well the planters lived, and* how they grow rich 
suddenly, I resolved, if 1 could get licence to settle 
there, 1 would turn planter among them, resolving in 
the meantime to find out some way to get my money 
which 1 had left in London remitted to me. ’J’o this 
purpose, getting a kind of a letter of naturalisation, I 
purchased as much laud that was uncured as my money 
would reach, and /ormed a plan for my plantation and 
settlement, and such a one as might bo suitable to the 
stock which 1 proposed to myself to receive from England. 

1 had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born 
of English parents, whose name was Wells, and in 
much such circumstances as 1 was. I call him my 
neighbour, because his plantation lay next to mine, 
and we went on very sociably together. My stock was 
but low, as well as his ; and we rather planted for 
food than anything else, for about two years. How- 
ever, we began to incrcjxr'C, and our land began to come 
into order ; so that the third year we phnited some 
tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground 
ready for planting canes in the year to come. But w'e 
both wanted help ; and now 1 found, more than before, 
I had done wrong in parting with my boy Xury. 

D 



34 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


But alas ! for me to do wrong that never did right 
was no great wonder. I had no remedy but to go on. 
I was gotten into an employment quite remote to my 
genius, and directly contrary to the life I delighted in, 
and for which I forsook my father’s house, and broke 
through all his good advice ; nay, I was coming into 
the very middle station, or upper degree of low life, 
which my father advised me to before ; and which, if I 
resolved to go on with, 1 might as well have stayed at 
home, and never have fatigued myself in the world as 
I had done. And 1 used often to say to myself, I could 
have done this as well in England among my friends, 
as have gone 6000 miles off to do it among strangers 
and savages, in a wilderness, and at such a distance as 
never to hear from any part of the world that had the 
least knowledge of me. 

In this manner I used to look upon my condition 
with the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse 
with, but now and then this neighbour ; no work to be 
done, but by the labour of my hands ; and 1 used to 
say, I lived just like a man cast away upon some deso- 
late island, that had nobody there but himself. But 
how just has it been I and how should all men reflect, 
that when they compare their present conditions with 
others that are worse. Heaven may oblige them to 
make the exchange, and be convinced of their former 
felicity by their experience ; — I say, how just has it 
been, that the truly solitary life 1 reflected on in an 
island of mere desolation should be my lot, who had so 
often unjustly compared it with the life which 1 then 
led, in which, had I continued, 1 had in all probability 
been exceeding prosperous and rich. 

I was in some degree settled in my measures for 
carrying on the plantation before my kind friend, the 
captain of the ship that took me up at sea, went back ; 
for the ship remained there in providing his loading, 
and preparing for his voyage, near three months ) when, 
telling him what little stock I had left behind me in 
London, he gave me this friendly and sincere advice : 
^ Seignior Inglese,* says .he, for so he always called me, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 35 


* if you will ^ive me letters, and a procuration here in 
form to me, with orders to the person who has your 
money in London to send your effects to Lisbon, to 
such persons as 1 shall direct, and in such goods as are 
proper for this country, 1 will bring you the produce 
of them, God willing, at my return. But since human 
affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, 1 would 
have you give orders but for one hundred pounds 
sterling, which, you say, is half your stock, and lot the 
hazard be run for the first ; so that if it come safe, you 
may order the rest the same way ; and if it miscarry, 
you may have the other half to have recourse to for 
your supply.* 

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so 
friendly, that 1 could not but be convinced it was the 
best course I could take ; so 1 accordingly prepared 
letters to the gentlewoman with whom 1 had left my 
money, and a procuration to the Portuguese captain, 
as he desired. 

1 wrote the English captain’s widow a full account 
of all my adventures ; my slavery, escape, and how I 
had met with the Portugal captain at sea, the humanity 
of his behaviour, and in what condition 1 was now in, 
with all other necessary directions for my supply. 
And when this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found 
means, by some of the English merchants there, to 
send over not the order only, but a full account of my 
story to a merchant at Ivondon, who represented it 
effectually to her; whereupon,, she not only delivered 
the money, but out of her omi pocket sent the Portugal 
captain a very handsome present for his humanity and 
charity to me. 

The merchant in London vesting this hundred 
pounds in English goods, such as the captain had writ 
for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and he 
brought them all safe to me to the Brazils ; among 
which,* without my direction (for I was too young in 
my business to think of them), he had taken care to 
have all sorts of tools, iron-work, and utensils necessary 
for my plantation, and which were of great use to me. 



36 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

When this car^o arrived, I thought my fortune 
made, for I was surprised with joy of it ; and my good 
steward, the captain, had laid out the five pounds, 
which my friend had sent him for a present for himself, 
to purchase and bring me over a servant under bond 
for six years’ service, and would not accept of any con- 
sideration, except a little tobacco, which 1 would have 
him accept, being of my own produce. 

Neither was this all ; but my goods being all English 
manufactures, such as cloth, stuffs, baize, and things 
particularly valuable and desirable in the country, I 
found means to sell them to a very great advantage ; 
so that 1 may say I had more than four times the value 
of my first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my 
poor neighbour, I mean in the advancement of my 
plantation ; for the first thing I did, 1 bought me a 
negro slave, and an European servant also ; 1 mean 
another besides that which the captain brought me 
from Lisbon. 

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very 
means of our greatest adversity, so was it with me. 1 
went on the next year with great success in my plan- 
tation. I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on my own 
ground, more than 1 had disposed of for necessaries 
among my neighbours ; and these fifty rolls, being each 
of above a hundredweight, were well cured, and laid by 
against the return of the fleet from I^isbon. And now, 
increasing in business and in wealth, my head began to 
be full of projects and undertakings beyond my reach, 
such as are, indeed, often the ruin of the best heads in 
business. 

Had 1 continued in the station I was now in, I had 
room for all the happy things to have yet befallen me 
for which iny father so earnestly recommended a quiet, 
retired life, and of which he had so sensibly described 
the middle station of life to be full of. But other 
things attended me, and I was still to be the wilful 
agent of all my own miseries ; and particularly, to 
increase my fault and double the reflections upon my- 
self, which in my future* sorrows I should have leisure 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 37 


to make. All these miscarriages were procured by my 
apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish inclination 
of wandering abroad, and pursuing that inclination in 
contradiction to the clearest views of doing myself 
good in a fair and plain pursuit of tliose prospects, and 
those measures of life, which Nature and Providence 
concurred to present me with, and to make my duty. 

As 1 had once done thus in my breaking away from 
my parents, so I could not be content now, but 1 must 
go and leave the happy view I had of being a rich and 
thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a 
rash and immoderate desire of rising faster tlian the 
nature of the thing admitted ; and thus I cast myself 
down again into the deepest gulf of human misery that 
ever man fell into, or perhaps could be consistent with 
life and a state of health in the world. 

To come, then, by the just degrees to the particulars 
of this part of my story, liiou may suppose^ that 
having now lived almost four years in the Brazils, 
and beginning to thrive and prosper very well upon my 
plantation, I had not only learned the language, but 
had contracted acquaintance and friendship among my 
fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants at St. 
Salvador, which was our port, and that in my discourses 
among them I had fro<juently given them an account 
of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the manner 
of trading with the negroes there, and how easy it was 
to purchase upon the coast for trifles — such as beads, 
toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass, and the 
like — not only gold-dust, Guinea grains, elephants’ 
teeth, etc., but negroes, for the service of the Brazils, 
in great numbers. 

They listened always very attentively to my dis- 
courses on these heads, but especially to that part which 
related to the buying negroes ; which was a trade, at 
that time, not only not far entered into, but, as far as 
it was,*had been carried on by the assierito, or permis- 
sion, of the Kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed 
in the public, so that few negroes were brought, and 
those excessive dear. * 



38 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


It happened, being in company with some merchants 
and planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those 
things very earnestly, three of them came to me the 
next morning, and told me they had been musing very 
much upon what 1 had discoursed with them of, the 
last night, and they came to make a secret proposal to 
me. And after enjoining me secrecy, they told me 
that they had a mind to ht out a ship to go to Guinea ; 
that they had all plantations as well as I, and were 
straitened for nothing so much as servants ; that as it 
was a trade that could not be carried on because they 
could not publicly sell the negroes when they came 
home, so they desired to make but one voyage, to 
bring the negroes on shore privately, and divide them 
among their ^own plantations ; and, in a word, the 
question was, wdi ether I would go their supercargo in 
the ship, to manage the trading part upon the coast of 
Guinea ; and they oifeied me that I should have my 
equal share of the negroes without providing any part 
of the stock. 

This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had 
it been made to any one that had not had a settlement 
and plantation of his own to look after, which was in a 
fair way of coming to be very considerable, and with a 
good stock upon it. But for me, that was thus entered 
and established, and had nothing to do but go on as 
1 had begun, for three or four years more, and to have 
sent for the other hundred pounds from England ; and 
who, in that time, and with that little addition, could 
scarce have failed of being worth three or four thousand 
pounds sterling, and that increasing too — for me to 
think of such a voyage, was the most preposterous thing 
that over man, in such circumstances, could be guilty of. 

But 1, that was born to be my own destroyer, could 
no more resist the offer than I could restrain my first 
rambling designs, when my father’s good counsel was 
lost upon me. In a word, 1 told them I would go 
with all my heart, if they would undertake to look 
after my plantation in my absence, and would dispose 
of it to such as I should direct if 1 miscarried, lliis 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 39 


they all engaf»:ed to do, and entered into writings or 
covenants to do so ; and 1 made a formal will, dis- 
posing of my plantation and effects, in case of my 
death ; making the captain of the ship that had saved 
my life, as before, my universal heir, but obliging him 
to dispose of my effects as 1 had directed in my 
will ; one-half of the produce being to himself, and the 
other to be shipped to England. 

In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my 
effects, and keep up my plantation. Had 1 used half 
as much prudence to have looked into my own interest, 
and have made a judgment of what 1 ought to have 
done and not to have done, I had certainly never gone 
away from so prosperous an undertaking, leaving all 
the probable views of a thriving circumstance, and 
gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its 
common hazards, to say nothing of the reasons 1 had 
to expect particular misfortune to myself. 

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dic- 
tates of my fancy rather than my reason. And accord- 
ingly, the ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, 
and all things done as by agreement by my partners in 
the voyage, I went on board in an evil hour, the [first] 
of [September 1669], being the same day eight year 
that 1 went from my father and mother at Hull, in 
order to act the rebel to their authority, and the fool 
to my own interest. 

Our ship was about 120 tons burthen, carried six 
guns and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, 
and myself. We had on board no large cargo of 
goods, except of such toys as were fit for our trade with 
the negroes — such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and 
odd trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives, 
scissors, hatchets, and the like. 

llie same day 1 went on board we set sail, standing 
away to the northward upon our own coast, with design 
to sti^tch over for the African coast, when they came 
about 10 or 12 degrees of northern latitude, which, it 
seems, was the manner of their course in those days. 
We had very good weather, only excessive hot, all the 



40 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

way upon our own coast, till we came the heig’ht of 
Cape St. Augustino, from whence, keeping farther off 
at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if we were 
bound for the Isle Fernando de Noronha, holding our 
course N.E. by N., and leaving those isles on the east. 
In this course we passed the line in about twelve days' 
time, and were, by our last observation, in 7 degrees 22 
minutes northern latitude, when a violent tornado, or 
hurricane, took us quite out of our knowledge. It began 
from the soutli-east, came about to the north-west, and 
then settled into the north-east, from whence it blew 
in such a terrible manner, that for twelve days together 
we could do nothing but drive, and, scudding away 
before it, let it carry us wherever fate and the fury of 
the winds directed ; and during these twelve days, I 
need not say that I expected every day to be swallowed 
up, nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect to save 
their lives. 

In this distress we bad, besides the terror of the 
storm, one of our men died of the calenture, and one 
man and the hoy washed overboard. About the twelfth 
day, the weather abating a little, the master made an 
observation as well as he could, and found that he was 
in about 11 degrees north latitude, but that he was 22 
degrees of longitude difference west from Cape St. 
Augustino ; so that he found he was gotten upon the 
coast of Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond 
the river Amazon, toward that of the river Orinoco, 
commonly called the Great River, and began to consult 
with me what course he should take, for the ship was 
leaky and very much disabled, and he was going 
directly back to the coast of Brazil. 

I was positively against that ; and looking over the 
charts of the sea-coast of America with him, we con- 
cluded there was no inhabited country for us to have 
recourse to till we came within the circle of the Car- 
rihbee Islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for 
Barbadoes, which by keeping off at sea, to avoid the 
indraft of the Bay or Gulf of Mexico, we might easily 
perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail ; 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 41 

whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to the 
coast of Africa without some assistance^ both to our ship 
and to ourselves. 

With this design we changed our course, and steered 
away N.W. by W. in order to reach some of our Eng- 
lish islands, where I hoped for relief ; but our voyage 
was otherwise determined ; for being ii\ the latitude of 
12 degrees 18 minutes, a second storm came upon us, 
which carried us away with the same impetuosity 
westward, and drove us so out of the very way of all 
human commerce, that had all our lives been saved, 
as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being 
devoured by savages than ever returning to our own 
country. 

In this distress, the wind still blowing yery hard, one 
of our men early in tlie morning cried out, ‘ Land ! ’ 
and we had no sooner ran out of the cabin to look out, 
in hopes of seeing whereabouts»in the world we were, 
but tlie ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her 
motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in such 
a manner, that we expected we should all have perished 
immediately ; and we w^ere immediately driven into 
our close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam 
and spray of the sea. 

It is not easy fOr any one, who has not been in the 
like condition, to describe or conceive the consternation 
of men in such circumstances. We knew nothing 
where we were, or upon what land it was we were 
driven, whether an island or the main, whether 
inhabited or not inhabited ; and as the rage of the 
wind was still great, though rather less than at first, 
we could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many 
minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the winds, 
by a kind of miracle, should turn immediately about. 
In a word, we sat looking one upon another, and 
expecting death every moment, and every man acting 
accordingly, as preparing for another world ; for there 
was little or nothing more for us to do in this. That 
which was our present comfort, and all the comfort we 
had, was that, contrary to our expectation, the ship did 



42 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

not break yet, and that the master said the wind began 
to abate. 

Now, though we thought that the wind did a little 
abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand, 
and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off, 
we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had 
nothing to do but to think of saving our lives as well 
as we could. We had a boat at our stern just before 
tlie storm, but she was first staved by dashing against 
the ship’s rudder, and in the next place, she broke 
away, and either sunk, or was driven off to sea, so 
there was no hope from her ; we had another boat on 
board, but how to get her off into the sea was a doubt- 
ful thing. However, there was no room to debate, for 
we fancied the ship would break in pieces every 
minute, and some told us she was actually broken 
already. 

In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of 
the boat, and with the help of the rest of the men they 
got her slung over the ship’s side ; and getting all into 
her, let go, and committed ourselves, being eleven in 
number, to God’s mercy, and the wild sea ; for though 
the storm was abated considerably, yet the sea went 
dreadful high upon the shore, and might well be called 
den wild zee, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm. 

And now our case was very dismal indeed, for we all 
saw plainly that the sea went so high, that the boat 
could not live, and that we should be inevitably 
drowned. As to making sail, we bad none ; nor, if 
we had, could we have done anything with it ; so we 
worked at the oar towards the land, though with heavy 
hearts, like men going to execution, for we all knew 
that when the boat came nearer the shore, she would 
be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the 
sea. However, we committed our souls to God in the 
most earnest manner ; and the wind driving us towards 
the shore, we hastened our destruction with cfur own 
hands, pulling as well as we could towards land. 

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether 
steep or shoal, we knew not ; the only hope that could 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 43 

rationally give us the least shadow of expectation was^ 
if we might happen into some bay or gulf, or the 
mouth of some river, where by great chance we might 
have run our boat in, or got under the lee of the land, 
and perhaps made smooth water. But there was 
nothing of this appeared ; but as we made nearer and 
nearer the shore, tne land looked more frightful than 
the sea. 

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league 
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain- 
like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly bade us 
expect the coup de grace. In a word, it took us with 
such a fury, that it overset the boat at once ; and 
separating us, as well from the boat as from one another, 
gave us not time hardly to say, ‘ O God for we were 
all swallowed up in a moment. 

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which 
I felt when I sunk into the W 2 ?ter ; for though I swam 
very well, yet 1 could not deliver myself from the 
waves so as to draw breath, till that wave having 
driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way on towards 
the shore, and having spent itself, went back, and left 
me upon the land almost dry, but half dead with the 
water I took in. I had so much presence of mind, as 
well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer the main- 
land thanl expected, I got upon my feet, and endeavoured 
to make on towards the land as fast as 1 could, before 
another wave should return and take me up again. 
But 1 soon found it was impossible to avoid it ; for 1 
saw the sea come after me as high as a great hill, and 
as furious as an enemy, which 1 had no means or 
strength to contend with. My business was to hold 
my breath, and raise myself upon the water, if 1 could ; 
and so, by swimming, to preserve my breathing, and 
pilot myself towards the shore, if possible ; my greatest 
concern now being, that the sea, as it would carry me 
a great way towards the shore when it came on, might 
not carry me back again with it when it gave back 
towards the sea. 

llie wave that came upon me again, buried me at 



44 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

once 20 or 30 feet deep in its own body, and I could 
feel myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness 
towards the shore a very great way ; but I held my 
breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward with 
all my might. I was ready to burst with holding my 
breath, when, as 1 felt myself rising up, so, to my 
immediate relief, I found my head and hands shoot out 
above the surface of the water ; and though it was 
not two seconds of time that 1 could keep myself so, 
yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new 
courage. I was covered again with water a good 
while, but not so long but I held it out ; and finding 
the water had spent itself, and began to return, 1 
struck forward against the return of the waves, and 
felt ground ^ain with my feet. 1 stood still a few 
moments to recover breath, and till the water went 
from me, and then took to my heels and ran with what 
strength 1 had farther towards the shore. But neither 
would this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which 
came pouring in after me again, and twice more I was 
lifted up by the waves and carried forwards as before, 
the shore being very flat. 

The last time of these two had well near been fatal 
to me ; for the sea, having hurried me along as before, 
landed me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of 
a rock, and that with such force, as it left me senseless, 
and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance ; for the 
blow taking my side and breast, beat the breath as it 
were quite out of my body ; and had it returned again 
immediately, I must have been strangled in the water. 
But I recovered a little before the return of the waves, 
and seeing I should be covered again with the water, 1 
resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so to 
hold my breath, if possible, till the wave went back. 
Now as the waves were not so high as at first, being 
near land, I held my hold till the wave abated, and 
then fetched another run, which brought me ^ near 
the shore, that the next wave, though it went over 
me, yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me 
away, and the next run 1 took I got to the mainland. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 46 

where, to my great comfort, 1 clambered up the cliffs 
of the shore, and sat me down upon the grass, free 
from danger, and quite out of tlie reach of the water, 

1 was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to 
look up and thank God that my life was saved in a case 
wherein there was some minutes before scarce any room 
to hope. I believe it is impossible to express to the life 
what the ecstasies and transports of the soul are when 
it is so saved, as 1 may say, out of the very grave ; and 
I do not wonder now at that custom, viz., that when 
a malefactor, who has the halter about his neck, is tied 
up, and just going to be turned off, and has a reprieve 
brought to him — I say, 1 do not wonder that they bring 
a surgeon with it, to let him blood that very moment 
they tell him of it, that the surprise may not drive 
the animal spirits from the heart, aiid overwhelm 
him : 

For sudden joys, like griefs<» confound at first. 

1 walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, 
and my whole being, as 1 may say, wrapt up in the 
contemplation of my deliverance, making a thousand 
gestures and motions which 1 cannot describe, reflecting 
upon all my comrades that were drowned, and that there 
should not be one soul saved but myself ; for, as for them, 
I never saw them afterwards, or any sign of them, 
except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes that 
were not fellows. 

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the 
breach and froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly 
see it, it lay so far off, and considered. Lord ! how was 
it possible I could get on shore ? 

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable 
part of my condition, 1 began to look round me to see 
what kind of place 1 was in, and what was next to be 
done, and 1 soon found my comforts abate, and that, in 
a word, 1 had a dreadful deliverance ; for 1 was wet, 
had no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to 
eat or drink to comfort me, neither did I see any 
prospect before me but that of perishing with hunger. 



46 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


or bein^ devoured by wild beasts ; and that which was 
particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon 
either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, 
or to defend myself ag-ainst any other creature that 
might desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I had 
nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a 
little tobacco in a box. ITiis was all my provision ; and 
this threw me into terrible agonies of mind, that for a 
while I ran about like a madman. Niglit coming upon 
me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider what would 
be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that 
country, seeing at night they always come abroad for 
their prey. 

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that 
time was, to ^et up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, 
but thorny, which grew near me, and where I resolved 
to sit all night, and consider the next day what deatli I 
should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. 
I walked about a furlong from the shore, to see if I 
could find any fresh water to drink, which 1 did, to 
my great joy ; and having drank, and put a little 
tobacco in my mouth to prevent hunger, I went to the 
tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to place 
myself so, as that if 1 should sleep 1 might not fall ; 
and having cut me a short stick, like a truncheon, 
for my defence, I took up my lodging, and having 
been excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept 
as comfortably as, I believe, few could have done 
in my condition, and found myself the most refreshed 
with it that I think I ever was on such an occasion. 

When 1 waked it was broad day, the weather clear, 
and the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and 
swell as l>efore. But that which surprised me most 
was, that the ship was lifted ofF in the night from the 
sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and 
was driven up almost as far as the rock which 1 first 
mentioned, where 1 had been so bruised by the 
dashing me against it. This being within about a 
mile from the shore where 1 was, and the ship seeming 
to stand upright still, I wished myself on board, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 47 

that^ at leasts 1 might have some necessary things for 
my use. 

When I came down from my apartment in the tree 
1 looked about me again^ and the first thing 1 found 
was the boat^ which lay as the wind and the sea had 
tossed her up upon the land, about two miles on my 
right hand. J walked as far as I could upon the shore 
to have got to her, but found a neck or inlet of water 
between me and the boat, which was about half a mile 
broad ; so I came back for the present, being more 
intent upon getting at the ship, where 1 hoped to find 
something for my present subsistence. 

A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and 
the tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within 
a quarter of a mile of tlie ship ; and here J found a 
fresh renewing of my grief, for 1 saw evidently, that if 
we had kept on board we had been all safe, that is to 
say, we had all got safe on shore, and 1 had not been 
so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all comfort 
and company, as I now was. This forced tears from 
my eyes again ; but as there was little relief in that, I 
resolved, if possible, to get to the ship ; so I pulled off 
my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and 
took the water. But when I came to the ship, my 
difficulty was still greater to know how to get on 
board ; for as she lay aground, and high out of the 
water, there was nothing within my reach to lay hold 
of. I swam round her twice, and the second time I 
spied a small piece of a rope, which I wondered 1 did 
not see at first, hang down by the fore-chains so low, 
as that with great difficulty I got hold of it, and by 
the help of that rope got up into the forecastle of the 
ship. Here 1 found that the ship was bulged, and had 
a great deal of water in her hold, but that she lay so on 
the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth, that 
her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head 
low almost to the water. By this means all her quarter 
was free, and all that was in that part was dry ; for you 
may be sure my first work was to search and to see 
what was spoiled and what was free. And first 1 found 



48 ADVENrrURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


that all the ship’s provisions were dry and untouched 
by the water ; and being very well disposed to eat, 1 
went to the bread-room and filled my pockets with 
biscuit, and eat it as I went about other things, for I 
had no time to lose. I also found some rum in the 
great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which 
I had indeed need enough of to spirit me for what was 
before me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat, to 
furnisii myself with many things which 1 foresaw would 
be very necessary to me. 

It w’as in vain to sit still and wish for what was not 
to be had, and this extremity roused my application. 
We had several spare yards, and two or three large 
spars of wood, and a spare top-n)ast or two in the 
snip. I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung 
as many of \hem overboard as I could manage for 
their weight, tying every one with a rope, that they 
might not drive away.t When this was done 1 went 
down the ship’s side, and, pulling them to me, 1 tied 
four of them fast together at both ends as well as 1 
could, in the form of a raft ; and laying two or three 
short pieces of plank upon them crossways, 1 found 
I could walk upon it very well, but that it was not 
able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too 
light. So 1 went to work, and with the carpenter’s 
saw 1 cut a spare top-mast into three lengths, and 
added them to my raft, with a great deal of labour 
and pains ; but hope of furnishing myself with 
necessaries encouraged me to go beyond what I 
should have been able to have done upon another 
occasion. 

My raft was now strong enough to be.ar any reason- 
able weight. My next care was what to load it with, 
and how to preserve what 1 laid upon it from the surf 
of the sea ; but 1 was not long considering this. I first 
laid all the planks or boards upon it that 1 could get, 
and having considered well what I most waAted, I 
first got three of the seamen’s chests, which 1 had 
broken open and emptied, and lowered them down 
upon my raft. The first of these I filled with provisions, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 49 


vi/.., bread, rice, three Dutcli cheeses, live pieces of 
dried goat’s flesh, which we lived much upon, and a 
little remainder of European corn, wliich had been 
laid by for some fowls wiiicli we brought to sea with 
us, hut the fowls were killed. ''Fliere had been some 
barley and wheat together, but, to my great disappoint- 
ment, 1 found afterwards that the rats had eaten or 
spoiled it all. As for liquors, 1 found several ceases of 
bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were some 
cordial waters, and, in all, about five or six gallons of 
rack. These I slowed by themselves, there being no 
need to put them into the chest, nor no room for 
them. vVhile I was doing this, 1 found the tide 
began to flow, though very calm, and I had the 
mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, 
which 1 had left on shore upon the sand* swim away ; 
as for my breeches, which were only linen, and open- 
kneed, I swam on board in them, and my stockings. 
However, this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of 
which I found enough, but took no more than I 
wanted for present use ; for T had other tilings which 
my eye was more upon, as first tools to work with 
on shore ; and it was after long searching that I found 
out the carpenter’s chest, which was indeed a very 
useful prize to me, ^nd much more valuable than a 
ship-loading of gold would have been at that time. 
I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was, 
without losing time to look into it, for 1 knew in 
general wliat it contained. 

My next care was for some ammunition and arms ; 
there were two very good fowling-pieces in the great 
cabin, and two pistols ; these 1 secured first, with some 
powder-horns, and a small bag of shot, and two old 
rusty swords. 1 knew there were three barrels of 
powder in the ship, hut knew not where our gunner 
had stowed them ; but with much search I found them, 
two of tyhem dry and good, the third had taken water ; 
those two 1 got to my raft with the arms. And now 1 
thought myself pretty well freighted, and began to 
think how 1 should get to shore with them, having 



60 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


neither sail, oar, or rudder ; and the least capful of 
wind would have overset all my navig-ation. 

1 had three encouragements. 1. A smooth, calm 
sea. 2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore. 
3. What little wind there was blew me towards the 
land. And thus, having found two or three broken 
oars belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which 
were in the chest, 1 found two saws, an axe, and a 
hammer, and with this cargo I put to sea. For a 
mile or thereabouts my raft went very well, only that 
I found it drive a little distant from the place where 
I had landed before, by which I perceived that there 
was some indraft of the water, and consequently J 
hoped to find some creek or river there, which 1 
might make use of as a port to get to land with my 
cargo. 

As I imagined, so it was ; there appeared before me a 
little opening of the land, and I found a strong current 
of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as well as 
1 could to keep in the middle of the stream. But here 
1 had like to have suffered a second shipwreck, which, 
if I had, I think verily would have broke my heart ; 
for knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground 
at one end of it upon a shoal, and not being aground at 
the other end, it wanted but a little that all my cargo 
had slipped off towards that end that was afioat, and so 
fallen into the water. I did my utmost by setting my 
back against the chests to keep them in their places, 
but could not thrust off the raft with all my strength, 
neither durst I stir from the posture I was in, but 
holding up the chests with all my might, stood in that 
manner near half an hour, in which time the rising of 
the water brought me a little more upon a level ; and a 
little after, the water still rising, my raft floated again, 
and I thrust her off with the oar I had into the channel, 
and then driving up higher, I at length found myself in 
the mouth of a little river, with laud on both sides, 
and a strong current or tide running up. I looked 
on both sides for a proper place to get to shore, 
for 1 was not willing to be driven too high up the 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 51 


river, hoping in time to see some ship at sea, and 
therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast as I 
could. 

At length 1 spied a little cove on the right shore of 
the creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I 
guided my raft, and at last got so near, as that, reaching 
ground with my oar, 1 could thrust her directly in ; 
but here 1 had like to have dipped all my cargo in the 
sea again ; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to 
say, sloping, there was no place to land but where one 
end of my float, if it run on shore, would lie so high 
and the other sink lower, as before, that it would 
endanger my cargo again. All that 1 could do was to 
wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft 
with my oar like an anchor to hold the sid^ of it fast to 
the shore, near a flat piece of ground, which I expected 
the water would flow over ; and so it did. As soon as 
1 found water enough, for my raTt drew about a foot of 
water, I thrust her on upon that flat piece of ground, 
and there fastened or moored her by sticking my two 
broken oars into the ground ; one on one side near one 
end, and one on the other side near the other end ; and 
thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft 
and all my cargo safe on shore. 

My next work was to view the country and seek a 
proper place for my habitation, and where to stow my 
goods to secure them from whatever might happen. 
Where 1 was, I yet knew not; whether on the continent, 
or on an island ; whether inhabited, or not inhabited ; 
whether in danger of wild beasts, or not. There was a 
hill, not above a mile from me, which rose up very 
steep and high, and which seemed to overtop some 
other hills, which lay as in a ridge from it, northward. 
1 took out one of the fowling-pieces and one of the 
pistols, and a horn of powder ; and thus armed, I 
travelled for discovery up to the top of that hill, 
where, after I had with great labour and difficulty got 
to the top, I saw my fate to my great affliction, viz., 
that I was in an island environed every way with the 
sea, no land to be seen, except some rocks which lay 



52 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

a ^roat way oif, and two S7nall islands less than this, 
which lay about three Icajj^ucs to the west. 

] found also that the island I was in was barren, and, 
as I saw ^ood reason to believe, uniiihalaled, except by 
wild beasts, of whom, however, I saw none ; yet 1 sa\^ 
abiiiidaiice of fowls, but know' not their kinds ; neither, 
when J killed them, could 1 tell what was fit for food, 
and what not. At my cominof back, I shot at a great 
bird which 1 saw sitting u])on a tree on the side of a 
great w'ood, 1 believe it was the first gun that had 
been fired there since the creation of the world. 1 had 
no sooner fired, but from all the parts of the wood there 
arose an innumerable number of fowls of many sorts, 
making a confused screaming, and crying every one 
according to his usual note ; but not one of them of any 
kind that I knew . As for the creature 1 killed, I took 
it to be a kind of a hawk, its colour and beak resem- 
bling it, but had no taibns or claws more than common ; 
its flesh w'as carrion, and fit for nothing. 

Contented with this disitovery, 1 came back to my 
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, 
which took me up the rest of that day ; and what to do 
with myself at night, 1 knew not, nor indeed where to 
rest ; for 1 was afraid to lie down on the ground, not 
know ing hut some wild beast might devour me, though, 
as 1 afterwards found, there was really no need for 
those fears. However, as well as I could, 1 barricaded 
myself round with the chests and boards that 1 had 
brought on shore, and made a kind of a hut for that 
night’s lodging ; as for food, 1 yet saw not which way 
to supply myself, except that 1 had seen two or three 
creatures like hares run out of the w'ood where 1 shot 
the fowl. 

I now began to consider, that I might yet get a great 
many things out of the ship, which would he useful to 
me, and particularly some of the rigging and sails, and 
such other things as might come to land } and 1 
resolved to make anotlier voyage on board the vessel, 
if possible. And as I knew that the first storm that 
blew must necessarily break her all in pieces, 1 resolved 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 63 


to set all other things apart till I got everything out of 
the ship that 1 could get. 7'hen I called a council, 
that is to say, in my thoughts, whether I should take 
back the raft, but this appeared impracticable ; so I 
resolved to go as before, when the tide was down ; and 
I did so, only that I stripped before I went from my 
hut, having nothing on but a chequered shirt and a 
pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet. 

1 got on board the ship as before, and {>repared a 
second raft, and having had experierice of the first, I 
neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard ; 
but yet I brought away several things very useful to 
me ; as, first, in the carpenter’s stores I found two or 
three bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, 
a dozen or two of hatchets, and above all, that most 
useful thing called a grindstone. All these 1 secured, 
together with several things belonging to the gunner, 
particularly two or three iron crows, and two barrels 
of musket bullets, seven muskets, and aiioLhcr fowling- 
piece, with some small quantity of powder more ; a 
targe bag full of small-shot, and a great roll of sheet 
lead ; but this last was so heavy, I could not hoist it 
up to get it over the ship’s side. Besides these things, 
1 took all the men’s clothes that I could find, and a 
spare fore- top sail, a hammock, and some bedding; 
and with this I loaded my second raft, and brought 
them all safe on shore, to my very great comfort. 

I was under some apprehensions during my absence 
from the land, that at least my provisions might be 
devoured on shore ; but when I came back, 1 found no 
sign of any visitor, only there sat a creature like a wild 
cat upon one of the chests, which, when I came to- 
wards it, ran away a little distance, and then stood 
still. She sat very composed and unconcerned, and 
looked full in my face, as if slie had a mind to be 
acquainted with me. I presented my gun at her ; but 
as she •did not understand it, she was perfectly un- 
concerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away ; upon 
which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though, by the way, 
I was not very free of it, for my store was not great 



64 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


However, I spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, 
smelled of it, and ate it, and looked (as pleased) for 
more ; but I thanked her, and could spare no more, so 
she marched off. 

Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was 
fain to open the barrels of powder and bring them by 
parcels, for they were too heavy, being large casks, X 
went to work to make me a little tent with the sail and 
some poles which 1 cut for that purpose ; and into this 
tent J brought everything that I knew would spoil 
either with rain or sun ; and I piled all the empty 
chests and casks up in a circle round the tent, to fortify 
it from any sudden attempt, either from man or beast. 

VVHien 1 had done this 1 blocked up the door of the 
tent with some boards within, and an empty chest set 
up oil end without ; and spreading one of the beds upon 
the ground, laying my tw'o pistols just at my head, and 
my gun at length byjme, I went to bed for the first 
time, and slept very quietly all night, for 1 was very 
weary and heavy ; for the night before 1 had slept little, 
and had laboured very hard all day, as well to fetch 
all those things from the ship, as to get them on shore. 

1 had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever 
was laid up, 1 believe, for one man ; but I was not 
satisfied still, for while the ship sat upright in that 
posture, I thought 1 ought to get everything out of her 
that 1 could. So every day at low water I went on 
board, and brought away something or other ; but, 
particularly, the third time 1 went 1 brought away as 
much of the rigging as 1 could, as also all the small 
ropes and rope-twine 1 could get, with a piece of spare 
canvas, whicn was to mend the sails upon occasion, the 
barrel of wet gunpowder ; in a word, I brought away 
all the sails first and last, only that 1 was fain to cut 
them in pieces, and bring as much at a time as 1 could ; 
for they were no more useful to be sails, but as mere 
canvas only. 

But tliat which comforted me more still was, that at 
last of all, after I had made five or six such voyages as 
these, and thought I had nothing more to expect firom 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 66 


the ship that was worth my meddling with ; I say, 
after all this, 1 found a great hogshead of bread, and 
three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar, 
and a barrel of fine flour ; this was surprising to me, 
because I had given over expecting any more pro- 
visions, except what was spoilt by the water. I soon 
emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it 
up parcel by parcel in pieces of the sails, which 1 cut 
out ; and, in a word, I got all this safe on shore 
also. 

'I'he next day I made another voyage. And now, 
having plundered the ship of what was portable and 
fit to hand out, I began with the cables ; and cutting 
the great cable into pieces, such as 1 could move, 1 
got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the iron- 
work 1 could get ; and having cut down *the sprit-sail- 
yard, and the mizzen-yard, and everything 1 could to 
make a large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy 
goods, and came away. But my good luck began now 
to leave me ; for this raft was so unwieldy, and so 
overladen, that after I was entered the little cove 
where 1 had landed the rest of my goods, not being able 
to guide it so handily as 1 did the other, it overset, and 
threw me and all my cargo into the water. As for 
myself, it was no great harm, for 1 was near the shore; 
hut as to my cargo, it was great part of it lost, especially 
the iron, which 1 expected would have been of great 
use to me. However, when the tide was out 1 got 
most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the 
iron, though with infinite labour ; for I was fain to dip 
for it into the water, a work which fatigued me very 
much. After this 1 w'ent every day on hoard, and 
brought away what I could get. 

1 had been now thirteen days on shore, and had 
been eleven times on board the ship ; in which time 1 
Inid brought away all that one pair of hands could well 
be supposed capable to bring, though I believe verily, 
had the calm weather held, I should have brought 
away the whole ship piece by piece. But preparing 
the twelfth time to go on board, I found the wind 



66 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

begin to rise. However, at low water I went on board, 
and tboagli 1 thought I had rummaged the cahin so 
effectually as that nothing more could be found, yet 1 
discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one of which 
I found two or tliree razors, and one pair of large scissors, 
with some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks ; 
in another, 1 found about thirty-six pounds value in 
money, some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces 
of eight, some gold, sonie silver. 

1 smiled to myself at the sight of this money. 
drug ! ’ said 1 aloud, ‘ what art thou good for } 
Thou art not worth to me, no, not the taking off of 
the ground ; one of those knives is worth all this heap. 
1 have no manner of use for thee ; even remain where 
thou art, and go to the bottom as a creature whose life 
is not worth shving.* How^ever, upon second thoughts, 
1 took it away ; and wrapping all this in a piece of 
canvas, 1 began to think of making another raft ; but 
while I was preparing this, I found the sky overcast, 
and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour 
it blew a fresh gale from the shore. It presently 
occurred to me that it was in vain to pretend to make 
a raft with the wind off shore, and that it was my 
business to be gone before the tide of Hood began, 
otherwises I might not be able to reach the shore at all. 
Accordingly 1 let myself down into the water, and 
swam across the channel, which lay between the ship 
and the sands, and even that with difficulty enough, 
partly with the weight of tlie things 1 had about me, 
and partly the rougliness of the water ; for the wind 
rose very hastily, and before it was quite high water it 
blew a storm. 

But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I 
lay with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew 
very hard all that night, and in the morning, when 1 
looked out, behold, no more ship was to be seen. I 
was I little surprised, but recovered myself with this 
satisfactory reflection, viz., that 1 had lost no time, nor 
abated no diligence, to get everything out of her that 
could be useful to me, and that indeed there wa.s little 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 67 


left in her that I was able to bring away if I had had 
more time. 

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or 
of anything out of her, except what might drive on 
shore from her wreck, as indeed divers pieces of lier, 
afterwards did ; but those things were of small use 
to me. 

My thoughts were now wholly employed about 
securing myself against either savages, if any should 
appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the island ; and 
1 had many thoughts of the method how to do this, 
and what kind of dwelling to make, whether I should 
make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth ; 
and, in short, I resolved upon both, the manner and 
description of which it may not be improper to give 
an account of. 

I soon found the place 1 was in was not for my 
settlement, particularly because it was upon a low 
moorish ground near the sea, and 1 believed would not 
be wholesome ; and more particularly because there 
was no fresh water near it. So 1 resolved to find 
a more healthy and more convenient spot of ground. 

1 consulted several things in my situation, which I 
found would be proper for me. First, health and 
fresh water, I just' now mentioned. Secondly, shelter 
from the heat of the sun. Thirdly, security from 
ravenous creatures, whether men or beasts. Fourthly, 
a view to the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight I 
might not lose any advantage for my deliverance, of 
which 1 was not willing to banish all my expectation yet. 

In search of a place proper for this, I found a little 
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards 
this little plain was steep as a house-side, so that 
nothing could come down upon me from the top ; on 
the side of this rock there was a hollow place, worn 
a little way in, like the entrance or door of a cave ; 
but there was not really any cave, or way into the 
rock at all. 

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow 
place, 1 resolved to pitch my tent This plain was 



58 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


not above an hundred yards broad^ and about twice as 
long, and lay like a green before my door, and at the 
end of it descended irregularly every way down into 
the low grounds by the seaside. It was on the 
N.N.W. side of the hill, so that 1 was sheltered from 
the heat every day, till it came to a W. and by S. sun, 
or thereabouts, which in those countries is near the 
setting. 

Before I set up my tent, 1 drew a half circle before 
the hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its 
semi-diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its 
diameter from its beginning and ending. In this half- 
circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving 
them into the ground till they stood very firm like 
piles, the biggest end being out of the ground about 
five feet and a* half, and sharpened on the top. 'Ilie two 
rows did not stand above six inches from one another. 

llien 1 took the pieces of cable which 1 had cut in 
the ship, and laid them in rows one upon another, 
within the circle, between these two rows of stakes, 
up to the top, placing other stakes in the inside lean- 
ing against them, about two feet and a half high, like 
a spur to a post ; and this fence was so strong, that 
neither man or beast could get into it, or over it 
This cost me a great deal of time and labour, especially 
to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the place, 
and drive them into the earth. 

The entrance into this place I made to be not by 
a door, but by a short ladder to go over the top ; 
which ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me, 
and so I was cimipletely fenced in, and fortified, as 
I thought, from all the world, and consequently slept 
secure in the night, which otherwise J could not have 
done ; though as it appeared afterwards, there was no 
need of all this caution from the enemies that I appre- 
hended danger from. 

Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labour, I 
carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, 
and stores, of which you have the account above ; and 
I made me a large tent, which, to preserve me from 



ADVEISrrURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 59 


the rains that in one part of the year are very violent 
there, 1 made double, viz., one smaller tent within, 
and one larg’er tent above it, and covered the upper- 
most with a large tarpaulin, which I had saved among 
the sails. And now I lay no more for a while in the 
bed which 1 had brought on shore, but in a hammock, 
which was indeed a very good one, and belonged to the 
mate of the ship. 

1 nto this tent I brought all my provisions, and every- 
thing that would spoil by the wet ; and having thus 
enclosed all my goods, 1 made up the entrance, which, 
till now, 1 had left open, and so passed and repasscd, 
as I said, by a short ladder. 

When I had done this, 1 began to work my way into 
the rock ; and bringing all the earth and stones that 1 
dug down out through my tent, I laid them up within 
my fence in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised 
tlie ground within about a foot' and a half ; and thus I 
made me a cave just behind my tent, which served me 
like a cellar to my house. 

It cost me much labour, and many days, before all 
these things were brought to perfection, and therefore 
1 must go back to some other things which took up 
some of my thoughts. At the same time it happened, 
after I had laid my scheme for the setting up my 
tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain falling 
from a thick dark cloud, a sudden flash of lightning 
happened, and after that a great clap of thunder, as is 
naturally tlie effect of it. I was not so much surprised 
with the lightning, as I was with a thought which 
darted into my mind as swift as the lightning itself. 

0 my powder ! My very heart sunk within me when 

1 thought, that at one blast all my powder might be 
destroyed, on which, not my defence only, but the 
providing me food, as I thought, entirely depended. 
I was nothing near so anxious about my own danger ; 
though had the powder took fire, 1 had never known 
who had hurt me. 

Such impression did this make upon me, that after 
the storm was over I laid aside ^ my works, my 



60 ADVEISrrURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


building, and fortifying, and applied myself to make 
bag's and boxes to separate the powder, aod keep it a 
little and a little in a parcel, in hope that whatever 
might come it might not all take fire at once, and to 
keep it so apart, that it should not be possible to make 
one part lire another. I finished this work in about a 
fortnight ; and I think my powder, which in all was 
about 240 pounds weight, was divided in not less than 
a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had l)een 
wet, 1 did not apprehend any danger from that, so 1 
placed it in my new cave, which in my fancy I called 
my kitchen, and the rest I hid up and down in holes 
among the rocks, so tliat no wet might come to it, 
marking very carefully where I laid it. 

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went 
out once, at least, every day with my gun, as well to 
divert myself, as to see if 1 could kill anything fit for 
food, and as near as 1 ••could to acquaint myself with 
what the island produced. The first time I went out, 
1 presently discovered that there were goats in the 
island, which was a great satisfaction to me ; but then 
it was attended with this misfortune to me, viz., tliat 
they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that 
it was the difficultest thing in the world to come at 
them. But I was not discouraged at this, not doubting 
but I might now and then shoot one, as it soon hap- 
pened ; for after I had found their haunts a little, J 
laid wait in this manner for them. I observed if they 
saw me in the valleys, though they were upon tlie 
rocks, they would run away as in a terrible fright ; but 
if they wore feeding in the valleys, and 1 was upon the 
rocks, they took no notice of me, from whence I con- 
cluded that, by the position of their optics, their sight 
was so directed downward, that they did not readily see 
objects that were above them. So afterward I took 
this method ; 1 always climbed the rocks first to get 
above them, and then liad frequently a fair mark. The 
first shot I made among these creatures I killed a she- 
goat, which had a little kid by her, which she gave 
suck to, which grieved me hejirtily ; but when the old 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 61 

one fell, the kid stood stock still by her till I came and 
took her up ; and not only so, but when J rarried the 
old one with me upon my shoulders, the kid followed 
me quite to my enclosure ; upon which 1 laid down the 
dam, and took the kid in my arms, and carried it over 
my pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame ; but it 
would not eat, so 1 was forced to kill it, and eat it 
myself, 'lliese two supplied me with flesh a ^reat 
wliile, for 1 eat sparingly, and saved my provisions, my 
bread especially, as much as possiidy 1 could. 

Having now fixed my habitation, 1 found it abso- 
lutely necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, 
and fuel to burn ; and whiit I did for that, as also how 
1 enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I made, 1 
shall give a full account of in its place. But 1 must 
first give some little account of myself, and of my 
thoughts about living, wdiich it may well be supposed 
were not a few. 

1 had a dismal prospect of my condition ; for as 1 
was not cast away upon that island without being 
driven, as is said, by a violent storm, quite out of 
the course of our intended voyage, and a great way, 
viz., some hundreds of leagues out of the ordinary 
course of the trade of mankind, I had great reason to 
consider it as a determination of Heaven, that in this 
desolate place, and in this desolate manner, 1 should 
end my life, llie tears w^ould run plentifully down 
my face when i made these reflections, and sometimes 
I would expostulate with myself, why Providence 
should thus completely ruin iti creatures, and render 
them so absolutely miserable, so without help aban- 
doned, so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be 
rational to be thankful for such a life. 

But something always returned swift upon me to 
check these tlioughts, and to reprove me ; and par- 
ticularly one day, walking with my gun in my hand 
by the* seaside, 1 w'as very pensive upon the subject 
of my present condition, when Retason, as it were, 
expostulated with me Pother w^ay, thus: ^Well, you 
are in a desolate condition it is true, but pray 



62 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

remember, where are the rest of you ? Did not you 
come eleven of you into the boat ? Where are the ten ? 
Why were not they saved, and you lost? Why were 
you singled out? Is it better to be here, or there?’ 
And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be 
considered with the good that is in them, and with 
what worse attends them. 

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was fur- 
nished for my subsistence, and what w'ould have been 
my case if it had not happened, which was an hundred 
thousand to one, that the ship floated from the place 
where she first struck and was driven so near to the 
shore that 1 had time to get all these things out of her ; 
what would have been my case, if I had been to have 
lived in the condition in which 1 at first came on shore, 
without necessaries of life, or necessaries to supply and 
procure them ? ‘ Particularly,’ said I aloud (though 
to myself), ^what shouW I have done without a gun, 
without ammunition, without any tools to make any- 
thing or to work with, without clothes, bedding, a 
tent, or any manner of covering ? ’ and that now I had 
all these to a sufficient quantity, and was in a fair way 
to provide myself in such a manner, as to live without 
my gun when my ammunition was spent ; so that I had 
a tolerable view of subsisting without any want as long 
as I lived. For I considered from the beginning how 1 
would provide for the accidents that might happen, and 
for the time that was to come, even not only after my 
ammunition should be spent, but even after my health 
or strength should decay. 

I confess I had not entertained any notion of my 
ammunition being destroyed at one blast — I mean, my 
powder being blown up by lightning ; and this made 
the thoughts of it so surprising to me when it lightened 
and thundered, as I observed just now. 

And now being to enter into a melancholy relation 
of a scene of silent life, such, perhaps, as was ’never 
heard of in the world before, I shall take it from its 
beginning, and continue it in its order. It was, by my 
account, the 30th of September when, in the manner 



ADVElSrnJRES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 63 

as above said^ I first set foot upon this horrid island^ 
when the sun being to us in its autumnal equinox^ was 
almost just over my head^ for I reckoned myself, by 
observation, to be in the latitude of 9 degrees 22 
minutes north of the line. 

After 1 had been there about ten or twelve days, it 
came into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning 
of time for want of books and pen and ink, and should 
even forget the Sabbath days from the working days ; 
but to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large 
post, in capital letters ; and making it into a great 
cross, 1 set it up on the shore where I first landed, viz , 
^ I came on shore here on the 30th of September 1059.' 
Upon the sides of this square post 1 cut every day a 
notch with my knife, and every seventh notch was as 
long again as the rest, and every first day of the month as 
long again as that long one ; and thus 1 kept my calendar, 
or weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time. 

In the next place we are to observe, that among the 
many things which I brought out of the ship in the 
several voyages, which, as above mentioned, I made to 
it, 1 got several things of less value, but not all less 
useful to me, which 1 omitted setting down before ; as 
in particular, pens, ink, and paper, several parcels in 
the captain’s, mate’s, gunner’s, and carpenter’s keep- 
ing, three or four compasses, some mathematical 
instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books of 
navigation, all which 1 huddled together, whether I 
might want them or no. Also 1 found three very good 
Bibles, which came to me in my cargo from England, 
and which I had packed up among my things ; some 
Portuguese books also, and among them two or three 
Popish prayer-books, and several other books, all which 
1 carefully secured. And 1 must not forget, that we 
had in the ship a dog and two cats, of whose eminent 
history 1 may have occasion to say something in its 
place ;*for 1 carried both the cats with me ; and as for 
the dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself, and swam 
on shore to me the day after 1 went on shore with my 
first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many years. 



64 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


1 wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor any com- 
pany that he could make up to me ; 1 only wanted to 
have him talk to mo, but that would not do. As I 
observed before, I found pen, ink, and paper, and I 
husbanded them to tl»e utmost ; and 1 shall show that 
while my ink lasted, I kept things very exact ; but 
after that was gone, I could not, for I could not make 
any ink by any means that I could devise. 

And this put me in mind that J wanted many things, 
notwithstainiiug all that 1 had amassed together ; and 
of these, this of ink was one, as also spade, pick-axe, 
and shov'el, to dig or remove the eartli, needles, pins, 
and thread ; as for linen, I soon learned to want that 
without much difficulty. 

This want of tools made every work I did go on 
heavily ; and *it w'as near a whole year before I had 
entirely finished my little pale or surrounded habita- 
tion. The piles or stakes, which were as licavy as I 
could well lift, were a long time in cutting and prepar- 
ing in the woods, and more by far in bringing home ; 
so that 1 spent sometimes two days in cutting and 
bringing home one of those posts, and a third day in 
driving it into the ground ; for which purpose I got a 
heavy piece of wood at first, but at last bethought 
myself of one of the iron crows, which, however, 
though I found it, yet it made driving those posts or 
piles very laborious and tedious work. 

But what need 1 have been concerned at the tedious- 
ness of anything 1 had to do, seeing I had time enough 
to do it iii.^ nor had 1 any other employment, if that 
had been over, at least, that 1 could foresee, except the 
ranging the island to seek for food, which I did more 
or less every day. 

1 now began to consider seriously rny condition, and 
the circumstance I was reduced to ; and 1 drew up the 
state of my affairs in writing ; not so much to leave 
them to any that were to come after me, for 1 was like 
to have but few heirs, as to deliver my thoughts from 
daily poring upon them, and afflicting my mind. And 
as my reason began now to mjister my despondency, I 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 65 


began to comfort myself as well as I could, and to set 
the good against the evil, that 1 might have some- 
thing to distinguish my case from worse ; and I stated 
it very impartially, like debtor and creditor, the 
comforts J enjoyed against the miseries I suffered, 


thus : 

Evil. 

, I am cast upon a hor- 
rible desolate island, void 
of all hope of recovery. 

I am singled out and 
separated, .as it were, from 
all the world to be miser- 
able." 


I am divided from 
mankind, a solitaire, one 
banished from human so- 
ciety. 

I have not clothes to 
cover me. 


1 am without any de- 
fence or means to resist 
any violence of man or 
beast. 


I have no soul to speak 
to, or relieve me. 


Good, 

But I am alive, and 
not drowned, as all my 
ship’s comp.any was. 

But I am singled out, 
too, from all the ship’s 
crew to be spared from 
death ; and He that mira- 
culously sav^d me from 
death, can deliver me from 
this condition. 

But 1 am not starved 
and perishing on a barren 
place, affording no susten- 
ance. 

But 1 am in a hot cli- 
mate, where if I had 
clothes I could hardly 
wear them. 

But 1 am cast on an 
island, where 1 see no 
wild beasts to hurt me, 
as 1 saw on the coast of 
Africa ; and what if I had 
been .shipwrecked there 

But God wonderfully 
sent the ship in near 
enough to the shore, that 
1 have gotten out so 
many necessary things as 
will either supply my 
wants, or enable me to 
supply myself even as 
long as I live. 



66 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, 
that there was scarce any condition in the world so 
miserable, but there was something negative or some- 
thing positive to be thankful for in it ; and let this 
stand as a direction from the experience of the most 
miserable of all conditions in this world, that we may 
always find in it something to comfort ourselves from, 
and to set in the description of good and evil on tl^e 
credit side of the account 

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my 
condition, and given over looking out to sea, to see if 
I could spy a ship ; I say, giving over these things, J 
began to apply myself to accommodate my way of living, 
and to make things as easy to me as I could. 

1 have already described my habitation, which was 
a tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a 
strong pale of posts and cables ; but I might now rather 
call it a wall, for 1 raided a kind of wall up against it 
of turfs, about two feet thick on the outside, and after 
some time — 1 think it was a year and a half — 1 raised 
rafters from it leading to tlie rock, and thatched or 
covered it with boughs of trees and sucli things as 1 
could get to keep out the rain, which 1 found at some 
times of the year very violent. 

1 have already observed how I brought all my goods 
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made 
behind me. But I must observe, too, tliat at first this 
was a confused heap of goods, which as they lay in no 
order, so they took up all my place ; 1 had no room 
to turn myself. So 1 set myself to enlarge my cave 
and works farther into the earth ; for it was a loose 
sandy rock, which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed 
on it. And so, when I founa I was pretty safe as to 
beasts of prey, I worked sideways to the right hand 
into the rock ; and then, turning to the right again, 
worked quite out, and made me a door to come out on 
the outside of my pale or fortification. This ^ave me 
not only egress and regress, as it were a back-way to 
my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to 
stow my goods. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 67 

And now 1 began to apply myself to make such 
necessary things as 1 found 1 most wanted, as par> 
ticularly a chair and a table ; for without these 1 was 
not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world. 
I could not write or eat, or do several things with so 
much pleasure without a table. 

So I went to work ; and here I must needs observe, 
that as reason is tlie substance and original of the 
mathematics, so by stating and squaring everything 
by reason, and by making the most rational judgment 
of things, every man may be in time master of every 
mechanic art. 1 had never handled a tool in my life ; 
and yet in time, by labour, application, and contrivance, 
I found at last that 1 wanted nothing but I could have 
made it, especially if 1 had had tools. However, 1 
made abundance of things even without tools, and some 
with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which, 
perhaps, were never made that ‘way before, and that 
with infinite labour. For example, if I wanted a 
board, 1 had no other way but to cut down a tree, set 
it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either side 
with my axe, till 1 had brought it to be thin as a plank, 
and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by 
this method I could make but one board out of a whole 
tree ; but this I had no remedy for but patience, any 
more than 1 had for the prodigious deal of time and 
labour which it took me up to make a plank or board. 
But my time or labour was little worth, and so it was 
as well emj)loyed one way as another. 

However, I made me a table and a chair, as 1 
observed above, in the first place, and this 1 did out of 
the short pieces of boards that I brought on my raft 
from the ship. But when I had wrought out some 
boards, as above, I made large shelves of the breadth 
of a foot and a half one over another, all along one side 
of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-work ; 
and, in a word, to separate everything at large in their 
places, that I might come easily at them. 1 knocked 
pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my guns and 
all things that would hang up ; so that had my cave 



68 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


been to be seen^ it looked like a general magazine of all 
necessary things ; and I had everything so ready at my 
hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my 
goods in such order, and especially to lirid my stock of 
all necessaries so great. 

And now it was when I began to keep a journal of 
every day’s employment ; for, indeed, at first, 1 was in 
too much hurry, and not only hurry as to labour, but 
in too much discomposure of mind ; and my journal 
would have been full of many dull tilings. For ex- 
ample, 1 must have said thus; SepL the oOth . — After I 
got to shore, and had escaped drowning, instead of being 
thankful to God for my deliverance, having first vomited 
with the great quantity of salt water which was gotten 
into my stoipach, and recovering myself a little, 1 ran 
about the shore, wringing my hands, and beating my 
head and face, exclaiming at my misery, and (;rying out, 
I was undone, undone* till, tired and faint, J w'as forced 
to lie down on the ground to repose ; but durst not sleep, 
for fear of being devoured. 

Some days after this, and after I had been on board 
the ship, and got all that I could out of her, yet I 
could not forbear getting up to the top of a little 
mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing a 
ship ; then fancy at a vast distance I spied a sail, please 
myself with the hopes of it, and then, after looking 
steadily till 1 was almost blind, lose it quite, and sit 
down and weep like a child, and thus increase my 
misery by my folly. 

But having gotten over these things in some measure, 
and having settled my household stuff and luibitation, 
miide me a t;ible and a chair, and all as handsome about 
me as 1 could, I began to keep my journal, of which 1 
shall here give you the copy (though in it will be told 
all these particulars over again) as long as it lasted ; for, 
having no more ink, I was forced to leave it off. 

THE JOURNAL 

September 30, 1659. — 1, poor miserable Robinson 
Crusoe, being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm, in 



ADVEOTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 69 

the offing, came on shore on this dismal unfortunate 
island, which I called the Island of Despair, all the 
rest of the ship’s company being drowned, and myself 
almost dead. 

All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself 
at the dismal circumstances I was brought to, viz., I 
had neither food, house, clothes, weapon, or place to 
fly to ; and in despair of any relief, saw nothing but 
death i>efore me ; either that I should be devoured by 
wild beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death 
for want of food. At the approach of night, I slept 
in a tree for fear of wild creatures, but slept soundly, 
though it rained all night. 

Oct. 1. — In the morning 1 saw, to my great sur- 
prise, the ship had floated with the hi^h tide, and 
was driven on shore again much nearer the island ; 
which, as it was some comfort on one hand, for seeing 
her sit upright, and not brokeit to pieces, I hoped, if 
the wind abated, I might get on board, and get some 
food and necessaries out of her for my relief ; so, on the 
other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my 
comrades, who, 1 imagined, if we had all stayed on 
board, might have saved the ship, or at least that they 
would not have been all drowned as they were ; and 
that had the men \)een saved, we might j)erhaps have 
built us a boat out of the ruins of the ship, to have 
carried us to some other part of the world. I spent 
great part of this day in perplexing myself on these 
things ; but at length seeing the ship almost dry, 1 went 
upon the sand as near as 1 could, and then swam on 
board ; this day also it continued raining, though with 
no wind at all. 

From the 1st of October to the 24.th . — All these days 
entirely spent in many several voyages to get all I could 
out of the ship, which I brought on shore, every tide 
of flood, upon rafts. Much rain also in these days, 
though* with some intervals of fair weather ; but, it 
seems, this was the rainy season. 

Oct. 20. — I overset my raft, and all the goods 1 had 
got upon it ; but being in shoal water, and the things 



70 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


being* chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when 
the tide was out. 

Ovt. 25. — It rained all night and all day, with some 
gusts of wind, during which time the ship broke in 
pieces, the wind blowing a little harder than before, 
and was no more to be seen, except the wreck of her, 
and that only at low water. I spent this day in cover- 
ing and securing the goods whicn 1 had saved, that the 
rain might not spoil them. 

OcL 2(5. — I walked about the shore almost all day to 
find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly concerned 
to secure myself from an attack in the night, either 
from wild beasts or men. Towards night 1 fixed upon 
a proper place under a rock, and marked out a semicircle 
for my encampment, which I resolved to strengthen with 
a work, wall, or fortification made of double piles, lined 
within with cables, and without with turf. 

From the 2()th to ‘the 30th 1 worked very hard 
in carrying all my goods to my new habitation, 
though some part of the time it rained exceeding 
hard. 

The 31st, in the morning, 1 went out into the island 
with my gun to see for some food, and discover the 
country ; when 1 killed a she-goat, and her kid followed 
me home, which I afterwards killed also, because it 
would not feed. 

Nov. 1. — I set up my tent under a rock, and lay 
there for the first night, making it as large as 1 
could, with stakes driven in to swing my hammock 
upon. 

Nov. 2. — I set up all my chests and boards, and the 
pieces of timber which made my rafts, and with them 
formed a fence round me, a little within the place I 
had marked out for my fortification. 

Nov. 3. — I went out with my gun, and killed two 
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the 
afternoon went to work to make me a table. 

Nov. 4. — This morning I began to order my times 
of work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and 
time of diversion, viz., every morning I walked out 



ADVENl^URES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 71 

with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain ; 
then employed myself to work till about eleven o’clock ; 
then eat what 1 had to live on ; and from twelve to 
two 1 lay down to sleep, the weather being excessive 
hot ; and then in tlie evening to work again. "JTiey 
working part of this day and of the next were wholly 
employed in making my table ; for I was yet but a very 
sorry workman, though time and necessity made me a 
complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe it 
would do any one else. 

Nov. 6. — This day went abroad with my gun and 
my dog, and killed a wild cat ; her skin pretty soft, but 
her flesh good for nothing. Every creature I killed, 1 
took off the skins and preserved them. C'oming back 
by the sea-shore, 1 saw many sorts of sea-fowls, which 
f did not understand ; but was surprised, and almost 
frighted, with two or three seals, which, wdiile I was 
gazing at, not well knowing what they were, got into 
the sea, and escaped mo for that time. 

Nov. 0. — After my morning walk J went to w’ork 
with my table again, and flnished it, though not to my 
liking ; nor was it long before 1 learned to mend it. 

Nov, 7. — Now it began to be settled fair weather, 
ITie 7th, 8th, 0th, loth, and part of the 12th (for the 
11th was Sunday) I took wholly up to make me a 
chair, and with much ado, brought it to a tolerable 
shape, but never to please me ; and even in the mak^ 
ing, I pulled it in pieces several times. Note, I soon 
neglected my keeping Sundays ; for, omitting mjr 
mark for them on my post, I forgot which was which. 

Nov. 18. — This day it rained, which refreshed me 
exceedingly, and cooled the earth ; but it was accom- 
panied with terrible thunder and lightning, which 
frighted me dreadfully, for fear of rny powder. As 
soon as it w’as over, 1 resolved to separate my stock of 
powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it 
might not be in danger. 

Nov. 14, 15, 1(). — These three days I spent in making 
little square chests or boxes, which might hold about a 
pound, or two pound at most, of powder ; and so putting 



72 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure and remote 
from one another as possible. On one of these three 
days 1 killed a large bird that was good to eat, but I 
know not what to call it. 

Now 17. — This day I began to dig behind my tent 
into the rock, to make room for my farther conveniency. 
Note, three things I wanted exceedingly for this work, 
viz., a pick-axe, a sho\ el, and a wheelbarrow or basket ; 
60 1 desisted from my work, and began to consider how 
to supply that want, and make me some tools. As for 
a pick-axe, 1 made use of the iron crows, which were 
proper enough, though heavy ; but the next thing was 
a shovel or spade. This was so absolutely necessary, 
that indeed 1 could do nothing effectually without it ; 
but what kind of one to make, J knew not. 

Nov, Ilk — Tlie next day, in searching the woods, I 
found a tree of that wood, or like it, wdiich in the 
Brazils they call the iron tree, for its exceeding hard- 
ness ; of this, with great labour, and almost spoiling 
my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home, too, 
with difficulty enough, for it was exceeding heavy. 

The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no 
other way, made me a long wdiile upon this machine, 
for I worked it effectually, by little and little, into the 
form of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly shaj>ed 
like ours in England, only that the broad part having 
no iron shod upon it at bottom, it w'ould not last me 
so long. However, it served well enough for the uses 
which I had occasion to put it to ; but never was a 
shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long 
a-making. 

1 was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a 
wheelbarrow. A basket I could not make by any 
means, having no such things as twigs that would 
bend to make wicker ware, at least none yet found 
out. And as to a wheelbarrow, I fancied I could make 
all but the wheel, but that 1 had no notion of, lieither 
did I know how to go about it ; besides, I had no 
possible way to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle 
or axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave it over ; and 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 73 


80 for carrying away the earth which I du^ out of 
the cave, I made me a thing like a hod which the 
labourers carry mortar in, when they serve the 
bricklayers. 

This was not so difficult to me as the making the 
shovel ; and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt 
which I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took 
me up no less than four days ; I mean always, except- 
ing iny morning walk with my gun, which I seldom 
failed, and very seldom filled also bringing home some- 
thing fit to eat. 

Nov. 2S . — My other work having now stood still 
because of my making these tools, when they were 
finished I went on, and working every day, as my 
strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days 
entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it 
miglit hold my goods commodiously. 

Note . — During all this time 1. worked to make this 
room or cave spacious enough to accommodate me as a 
warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and 
a cellar ; as for my lodging, 1 kept to the tent, except 
that sometimes in the wot season of the year it rained 
so hard, that I could not keep myself dry, which 
caused me aflerwarjls to cover all my place within my 
pale with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning 
against the rock, and load them with flags and large 
leaves of trees, like a thatch. 

Dec. 10. — I began now to think my cave or vault 
finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too 
large) a great quantity of earth fell down from the top 
and one side, so much, that, in short, it frighted me, 
and not without reason too ; for if I had been under 
it, I had never wanted a grave-digger. Upon this 
disaster I had a great deal of work to do over again ; 
for I had the loose earth to carry out ; and, which was 
of more importance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so 
that 1 might be sure no more would come down. 

Dec. 11. — This day I went to work with it accord- 
ingly, and got two shores or posts pitched upright to 
the top, with two pieces of boards across over each post. 



74 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


Tliis I finished the next day ; and setting more posts up 
with boards, in about a week more I had the roof 
secured ; and the posts standing in rows, served me for 
partitions to part of my house. 

Dec, 17. — From this day to the twentieth 1 placed 
shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts to hang 
ever}i;hing up that could be hung up ; and now 1 began 
to be in some order within doors. 

Dec. 20. — Now I carried everything into the cave, 
and began to furnish my house, and set up some 
pieces of boards, like a dresser, to order my victuals 
upon ; but boards began to be very scarce with me ; 
also I made me another table. 

Dec. 24. — Much rain all night and all day ; no 
stirring out. 

Dec. 2.5. — -llain all day. 

Dec. 26. — No rain, and the earth much cooler than 
before, and pleasanter* 

Dec. 27. — Killed a young goat, and lamed another, 
so that 1 catched it, and led it home in a string. When 
I had it home, I bound and splintered up its leg, which 
was broke. J^.B . — 1 took such care of it, that it lived ; 
and the leg grew well and as strong as ever ; but by my 
nursing it so long it grew tame, and fed upon the little 
green at my door, and would not go away. This was 
the first time that I entertained a thought of breeding 
up some tame creatures, that I might have food when 
my powder and shot was all spent. 

Dec. 28, 29, 30. — Great heats and no breeze, .so that 
there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for 
food, 'lliis time I spent in putting all my things in 
order within doors. 

Jan. 1. — Very hot still, hut 1 went abroad early and 
late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the 
day. ITiis evening, going farther into the valleys 
which lay towards the centre of the island, I found 
there was plenty of goats, though exceeding shy, and 
hard to come at. However, I resolved to try if 1 could 
not bring my dog to hunt them down. 

Jan. 2. — Accordingly, the next day, I went out with 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 75 


my dog, and set him upon the goats ; but I was mis- 
taken, for they all faced about upon the dog ; and he 
knew his danger too well, for he would not come near 
them. 

Jan. 3. — I began my fence or wall ; which, being 
still jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I 
resolved to make very thick and strong. 

N.B . — This wall being described before, I purposely 
omit what was said in the journal. It is sufficient to 
observe that I was no less time than from the 3rd of 
January to the 14th of April working, finishing, and 
perfecting this wall, though it was no more than about 
twenty-four yards in length, being a half circle from 
one place in the rock to another place about eight 
yards from it, the door of the cave being m the centre 
behind it. 

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering 
me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together ; but I 
thought I should never be perfectly secure till this wall 
was finished. And it is scarce credible what inexpres- 
sible labour everything was done with, especially the 
bringing piles out of the woods, and driving them into 
the ground ; for I made them much bigger than 1 need 
to have done. 

When this wall was finished, and the outside 
double -fenced with a turf- wall raised up close to it, 
I persuaded myself that if any people were to come 
on shore there, they would not perceive anything 
like a habitation ; and it was very well I did so, as 
may be observed hereafter upon a very remarkable 
occasion. 

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods 
for game every day, when the rain admitted me, and 
made frequent discoveries in these walks of some- 
thing or other to my advantage ; particularly I found 
a kind of wild pigeons, who built, not as w^ood pigeons 
in a tree, but rather as house pigeons, in the holes of 
the rocks. And taking some young ones, 1 endeavoured 
to breed them up tame, and did so ; but when they 



76 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


^rew older they flew all away, which, perhaps, was at 
first for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give 
them. However, I frequently found their nests, and 
got their young ones, which were very good meat. 

And now in the managing my household affairs I 
found myself wanting in many things, which 1 thought 
at first it was impossible for me to make, as indeed, as 
to some of them, it was. For instance, 1 could never 
make a. cask to he hooped ; I had a small runlet or 
two, as I observed before, but 1 could never arrive to 
tlie capacity of making one by them, though I spent 
many w^eeks about it. I could neither put in the 
heads, or joint the staves so true to one another, as to 
make them hold water ; so 1 gave that also over. 

In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle ; 
so that as soon as ever it was dark, which was generally 
by seven o'clock, 1 was obliged to go to bed. I 
remembered the lump’of beeswax with which I made 
caudles in my African adventure, but I had none of 
that now. 'llie only remedy 1 had was, that when 1 
had killed a goat 1 saved the tallow, and with a little 
dish made of clay, which I baked in the sun, to which 
I added a wick of some oakum, 1 made me a lamp ; 
and this gave me light, though not a clear steady 
light like a candle. 

In the middle of all my labours it happened, that 
rummaging my things, I found a little bag, which, as 
I hinted before, had been filled with corn for the 
feeding of poultry, not for this voyage, but before, as I 
suppose, Mdien the ship came from Lisbon. What 
little remainder of corn had been in the bag was all 
devoured with the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag 
but husks and dust ; and being willing to have the bag 
for some other use, 1 think it was to put powder in, 
when 1 divided it for fear of the lightning, or some 
such use, 1 shook the husks of corn out of it on one 
side of my fortification, under the rock. It was a little 
before the great rains, just now mentioned, that 1 
threw this stuff away, taking no notice of anything, and 
not so much as remembering that I had thrown anything 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 77 

there ; when, about a month after, or thereabout, I saw 
some few stalks of something green shooting out of the 
ground, which 1 fancied might be some plant 1 had not 
seen; but I was surprised, and perfectly astonished, when, 
after a little longer time, 1 saw about ten or twelve ears 
come out, which were perfect green barley of the same 
kind as our European, nay, as our English barley. 

It is impossible to express the astonishment and con- 
fusion of my thoughts on this occasion. 1 had hitherto 
acted upon no religious foundation at all ; indeed, 1 
had very few notions of religion in my head, or had 
entertained any sense of anything tliat had befallen me 
otherwise than as a chance, or, as wc lightly say, what 
pleases God ; without so much as inquiring into the 
end of Providence in these things, or His order in 
governing events in the world. But aftef 1 saw barley 
grow there, in a climate which 1 know was not proper 
for corn, and especially that 1 knew not how it came 
there, it startled me strangely, and I began to suggest 
that God had miraculously caused this grain to grow 
without any help of seed sown, and that it was so directed 
purely for my sustenance on that wild miserable place. 

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out 
of my eyes; and I, began to bless myself, that such a 
prodigy of Nature should happen upon my account ; 
and this was the more strange to me, because 1 saw 
near it still, all along by the side of the rock, some 
other straggling stalks, which proved to be stalks of 
rice, and which 1 knew, because 1 had seen it grow in 
Africa, w^hen I was ashore there. 

1 not only thought these the pure productions of 
Providence for my support, but, not doubting but that 
there was more in the place, I went all over that part 
of the island where I had been before, peering in every 
corner, and under every rock, to see for more of it ; 
but 1 could not find any. At last it occurred to my 
thoughts that 1 had shook a bag of chickens’ meat out 
in that place, and then the wonder began to cease ; and 
J must confess, my religious thankfulness to God’s pro- 
vidence began to abate too, upon the discovering that 



78 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

all this was nothing hut what was common ; though 1 
ought to have been as thankful for so strange and 
unforeseen providence, as if it had been miraculous ; 
for it was really the work of Providence as to me, that 
should order or appoint, that ten or twelve grains of 
corn should remain unspoiled (when the rats had 
destroyed all the rest), as if it had been dropped from 
heaven ; as also that I should throw it out in that 
particular place, where, it being in the shade of a high 
rock, it sprang up immediately ; whereas, if I had 
thrown it anywhere else at that time, it had been burnt 
up and destroyed. 

1 carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be 
sure, in their season, which was about the end of June ; 
and laying up every corn, 1 resolved to sow them all 
again, hoping in time to have some quantity sufficient 
to supply me with bread. But it was not till the fourth 
year that I could allow myself the least grain of this 
corn to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall say 
afterwards in its order ; for I lost all that I sowed the 
first season, by not observing the proper time ; for 1 
sowed it just before the dry season, so that it never 
came up at all, at least not as it would have done ; of 
which in its place. 

Besides this barley, there was, as above, twenty or 
thirty stalks of rice, which 1 preserved with the same 
care, and whose use was of the same kind, or to the 
same purpose, viz., to make me bread, or rather food ; 
for 1 found ways to cook it up without baking, though 
1 did that also after some time. But to return to my 
journal. 

I worked excessive hard these three or four months 
to get my wall done ; and the 14th of April 1 closed it 
up, contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over 
the wall by a ladder, that there might be no sign in 
the outside of my habitation. 

April 16. — I finished the ladder, so I went up with 
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me, 
and let it down on the inside. 'Jliis was a complete 
enclosure to me ; for within 1 had room enough, and 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 79 

nothing could come at me from without, unless it could 
first mount my wall. 

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had 
almost had all my labour overthrown at once, and myself 
killed. The case was thus: As 1 was busy in the 
inside of it, behind my tent, just in the entrance into 
my cave, 1 was terribly frighted with a most dreadful 
surprising thing indeed ; for all on a sudden 1 found 
the earth come crumbling down from the roof of my 
cave, and from the edge of the hill over my head, and 
two of the posts 1 had set up in the cave cracked in a 
frightful manner. 1 was heartily scared, but thought 
nothing of what was really the cause, only thinking 
that the top of my cave was falling in, as some of it had 
done before ; and for fear 1 should be buried in it, 1 
ran forward to my ladder; and not thinking myself 
safe there neither, 1 got over my wall for fear of the 
pieces of the hill which I expected might roll down 
upon me. 1 was no sooner stepped down upon the firm 
ground, but 1 plainly saw it ivas a terrible earthquake ; 
for the ground I stood on shook three times at about 
eight minutes’ distance, with three such shocks, as 
would have overturned the strongest building that 
could be supposed, to have stood on the earth ; and a 
great piece of the top of a rock, which stood about half 
a mile from me next the sea, fell down with such a 
terrible noise, as 1 never heard in all my life. 1 
perceived also the very sea was put into violent 
motion by it ; and I believe the shocks were stronger 
under the water than on the island. 

1 was so amazed with the thing itself, having never 
felt the like, or discoursed with any one that had, that 
1 was like one dead or stupefied ; and the motion of the 
eai*th made my stomach sick, like one that was tossed 
at sea. But the noise of the falling of the rock awaked 
me, as it were, and rousing me from the stupefied con- 
dition 1 was in, filled me with horror, and 1 thought 
of nothing then but the hill falling upon my tent and 
all my household goods, and burying all at once ; and 
this sunk my very soul within me a second time. 



80 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


After the third shock was over, and I felt no more 
for some time, I began to take courage ; and yet 1 had 
not heart enough to go over my wall again, for fear 
of being buried alive, but sat still upon the ground, 
greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what 
to do. All this while 1 had not the least serious 
religious thought, nothing but the common, ‘ Lord, 
have mercy upon me ! * and when it was over, that 
went away too. 

VV’^hile I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow 
cloudy, as if it would rain. Soon after that the wind 
rose by little and little, so that in less than half an 
hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane. The sea was 
all on a sudden covered over with foam and frotli ; the 
shore was covered with the breach of the water ; the 
trees were torn up by the roots; and a terrible storm it 
was : and this held about three hours, and then began 
to abate ; and in two hours more it was stark calm, 
and began to rain very hard. 

All this while I sat upon the ground, very much 
terrified and dejected ; when on a sudden it came into 
my thoughts, that these winds and rain being the con- 
sequences of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was 
spent and over, and 1 might venture into my cave again. 
With this thought my spirits began to revive ; and the 
rain also helping to persuade me, 1 went in and sat 
down ill my tent. But the rain was so violent, that my 
tent was ready to be beaten down with it, and 1 was 
forced to go into my cave, though very much afraid and 
uneasy, for fear it should fall on my head. 

This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to 
cut a hole through my new fortification, like a sink, to 
let the water go out, which would else have drowned 
my cave. After I had been in my cave some time, and 
found still no more shocks of the earthquake follow, I 
began to be more composed. And now to support my 
spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went to 
my little store, and took a small sup of rum, which, 
however, 1 did then, and always, very sparingly, 
knowing I could have no more when that was gone. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 81 

It continued raining’ all that night and great part of 
the next day, so that 1 could not stir abroad ; but my 
mind being more composed, I began to think of what 
1 liad best do, concluding that if the island was subject 
to these earthquakes, there would be no living for me 
in a cave, but 1 must consider of building me some 
little hut in an open place, which 1 might surround 
with a wall, as 1 had done here, and so make myself 
secure from wild beasts or men ; but concluded, if 1 
stayed where I was, 1 should certainly, one time or 
other, be buried alive. 

With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent 
from the place where it stood, which was just under the 
hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it should be 
shaken again, would certainly fall upon my tent ; and I 
spent the two next days, being the IDth and 20th of 
April, in contriving where and how to remove my 
habitati(»n. 

'^J'he fear of being swallowed up alive made me that 
I never slept in <iuiot ; and yet the a]>prehension of lying 
abroad without any fence was almost equal to it. But 
still, when I looked about and saw how everything was 
put in order, how pleasantly concealed I was, and how 
safe from danger, rt made me very loth to remove. 

Ill the meantime it occurred to me that it would re- 
quire a vast deal of time for me to do this, and Unit J 
must be contented to run the venture where I was, till 
I had formed a camp for myself, and had secured it so 
as to remove to it. So with this resolution I composed 
myself for a time, and resolved that 1 would go to 
work with all speed to build me a wall with piles and 
cables, etc., in a circle as before, and set my tent up in 
it when it was finished, hut that 1 would venture to 
stay where I was till it was finished, and fit to remove 
to. This was the 2lst. 

Aj)ril 22. — The next morning 1 began to consider of 
means to put this resolve in execution ; but I was at a 
great loss about my tools. I had three large axes, and 
abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for 
traffic with the Indians), but with much chopping and 
o 



82 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches 
and dull ; and though 1 liad a grindstone, I could not 
turn it and grind my tools too. I'his cost me as much 
thought as a stiitesman would have bestowed upon a 
grand point of politics, or a judge upon the life and 
death of a man. At lengtli I contrived a wheel with 
a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both 
my hands at liberty. Note, 1 had never seen any such 
thing in England, or at least not to take notice how it 
was done, though since I have observed it is very 
common there ; besides that, my grindstone was very 
large and heavy. This machine cost me a full week’s 
work to bring it to perfection. 

April 28, 29. — Tliese two whole days I took up in 
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grind- 
stone performing very well. 

April 80, — Having perceived my bread had been low 
a great while, now 1 took a survey of it, and reduced 
myself to one biscuit-cake a day, which made my heart 
very heiivy. 

May 1. — In the morning, looking towards the seaside, 
the tide being low, 1 saw something lie on the shore 
bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask. When 
I came to it, 1 found a small barrel, and two or three 
pieces of the wreck of the ship, whicli were driven on 
shore by the late hurricane ; and looking towards the 
wreck itself, 1 thought it seemed to lie higher out of the 
water than it used to do. 1 examined the barrel which 
was driven on shore, and soon found it was a barrel of 
gunpowder ; but it had taken water, and the powder 
was caked as hard as a stone. However, 1 rolled it 
farther on shore for the present, and vt eiit on upon the 
sands as near as I could to the wreck of the ship to 
look for more. 

When 1 came down to the ship 1 found it strangely 
Temoved. The forecastle, which lay before buried in 
sand, was heaved up at least six feet ; and the stern, 
which was broken to pieces, and parted from the rest 
by the force of the sea soon after 1 had left rummaging 
her, was tossed, as it were, up, and cast on one side, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 83 


and the sand was thrown so high on that side next her 
stern, that whereas there was a great place of water 
before, so that 1 could not come within a quarter of a 
mile of the wreck without swimming, 1 could now walk 
quite up to her wlien the tide was out. I was surprised 
with this at first, but soon concluded it must he done 
by the earthquake. And as by this violence the ship 
W'ds more broken open than formerly, so many things 
came daily on shore, which the sea had loosened, and 
which the winds and water rolled by degrees to the 
land. 

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of 
removing my habitation ; and I busied myself miglitily, 
that day especially, in searching whether I could make 
any way into the ship. But 1 found nothing was to be 
expected of that kincl, for that all the inside of the ship 
was choked up with sand. However, as I had learned 
not to despair of anything, I resolved to pull everything 
to pieces that I could of the ship, concluding, that 
everything I could get from her would be of some use 
or other to me. 

May 3. — I began with my saw, and cut a piece of 
a beam through, which I thought held some of the 
upper part or quarter-deck together ; and when I had 
cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well as 
1 could from the side which lay highest ; hut the 
tide coming in, I was obliged to give over for that 
time. 

May 4. — I went a-fishing, but caught not one fish 
that 1 durst eat of, till 1 was weary of my sport ; 
when, just going to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. 
I had made me a long line of some rope-yarn, but 1 
had no hooks ; yet I frequently caught fish enough, 
as much as 1 cared to eat ; all which 1 dried in the 
sun, and eat them dry. 

May 6. — Worked on the wreck, cut another beam 
asunder, and brought three great fir-planks off from the 
decks, which I tied together, and made swum on shore, 
when the tide of flood came on. 

May 6. — Worked on the wreck, got several iron 



84 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


bolts oat of her, and otlier pieces of ironwork ; worked 
very hard, and came home very much tired, and had 
thoughts of giving it over. 

May 7. — Went to the wreck again, hut with an 
intent not to work, but found the weight of the 
wreck had broke itself down, the beams being cut ; 
that several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose, 
and the inside of the hold lay so open, that I could 
see into it, but almost full of water and sand. 

May 8. — VV^ent to the w'reck, and carried an iron 
crow to wrench up the deck, whicli lay now quite 
clear of the water or sand. I wrenched open two 
planks, and brought them on shore also with the tide. 
1 left the iron crow in the w'^reck for next day. 

May 9. — Went to the wreck, and wiLli the crow 
made way into tlie body of the wreck, and felt 
several casks, and loosened them with the crow, but 
could not break them up. I felt also the roll of 
English lead, and could stir it, but it was too heavy 
to remove. 

May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. — Went every day to the 
wreck, and got a great deal of pieces of timber, and 
boards, or plank, and two or three hundredweight 
of iron. 

May 15. — I carried two hatchets to try if 1 could 
not cut a piece off of the roll of lead, by placing 
the edge of one hatchet, and driving it with the 
other ; but as it lay about a foot and a half in the 
water, 1 could not make any blow to drive the 
hatchet. 

May 16. — It had blowed hard in the night, and the 
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water ; 
but I stayed so long in the woods to get pigeons for 
food, that the tide prevented me going to the wreck 
that day. 

May 17* — I saw some pieces of the wreck blown 
on shore, at a great distance, near two miles off me, 
but resolved to see what they were, and found it was 
a piece of the head, but too heavy for me to bring 
away. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 85 


May 24. — Every day to this day I worked on the 
wreck, and with hard labour J loosened some things 
so much with the crow, that the first blowing tide 
several casks fioatetl out, and two of the seamen’s 
chests. But the wind blowing from the shore, notliing 
came to land that day but pieces of timber, and a 
hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it, but the 
salt water and the sand had spoiled it. 

I continued this work every day to the 16th of 
June, except the time necessary to get food, which 
I always appointed, during this part of my employ- 
ment, to be when the tide was up, that I might be 
ready when it was ebbed out. And by this time I had 
gotten timber, and plank, and ironwork enough to 
have builded a good boat, if I had known how ; and 
also, I got at several times, and in several pieces, near 
one hundredweight of the sheet lead. 

June IG. — Going down to the seavside, 1 found a 
large tortoise, or turtle. This w^as the first I had seen, 
which it seems was only my misfortune, not any defect 
of the place, or scarcity ; for had 1 happened to be on 
the otlier side of the island, 1 might have had hundreds 
of them every day, as 1 found afterwards ; but, perhaps, 
had paid dear enough for them. 

June 17 1 spent in cooking the turtle. I found in 
her threescore eggs ; and her Hcsh was to me, at that 
time, the most savoury and pleasant that ever 1 tasted 
in my life, having had no flesh, but of goats and fowls, 
since 1 landed in this horrid place. 

June 18. — Rained all day, and I stayed within. I 
thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was 
something chilly, which 1 knew was not usual in that 
latitude. 

June 10. — Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather 
had been cold. 

June 20. — No rest all night ; violent pains in my head, 
and feverish. 

June 21. — Very ill, frighted almost to death with the 
apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, and no 
help. Prayed to God for the first time since the storm 



86 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

off of Hull, but scarce knew what I said, or why ; my 
thoughts being all confused. 

June 22. — A little better, but under dreadful appre- 
hensions of sickness. 

June 2»‘l. — Very bad again ; cold and shivering, and 
tlien a violent headache. 

June 24. — Much better. 

June 25.— An ague very violent ; the fit held me 
seven hours ; cold fit, and hot, with faint sweats 
after it. 

June 26. — Better ; and having no victuals to eat, took 
my gun, but found myself very weak. However, 1 killed 
a she-goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and 
broiled some of it, and eat. 1 would fain have stewed 
it, and made some broth, but had no pot. 

June Tl . — The ague again so violent that I lay abed 
all day, and neither eat or drank. 1 was ready to perish 
for thirst ; but so weak, 1 had not strength to stand up, 
or to get myself any water to drink. Prayed to God 
again, but was light-headed ; and when I was not, I was 
so ignorant that I knew not what to say ; only I lay 
and cried, ^ Lord, look upon me ! Lord, pity me ! Lord, 
have mercy upon me V I suppose I did nothing else for 
two or three hours, till the fit wearing off, I fell asleep, 
and did not wake till far in the night. When I waked, 
I found myself much refreshed, but weak, and exceeding 
thirsty. However, as 1 had no water in my whole 
habitation, I was forced to lie till morning, and went to 
sleep again. In this second sleep 1 had this terrible 
dream. 

1 thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the 
outside of my wall, where 1 sat when the storm blew 
after the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend 
from a great black cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and 
light upon the ground. He was all over as bright as a 
flame, so that 1 could but just bear to look towards him. 
His countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful, im- 
possible for words to describe. When he stepped upon 
the ground with his feet, I thought the earth trembled, 
just as it had done before in the earthquake, and all 



ADVEOTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 87 


the air looked, to my apprehension, as if it had been 
filled with flashes of fire. 

He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he 
moved forward towards me, with a long spear or weapon 
in his hand, to kill me ; and when he came to a rising 
ground, at some distance, he spoke to me, or I heard a 
voice so terrible, that it is impossible to express the 
terror of it. All that I can say 1 understood was this ; 
^Seeing all these things have not brought thee to 
repentance, now thou shalt die ’ ; at which words I 
thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand to 
kill me. 

No one that shall ever read this account, will expect 
that 1 should be able to describe the horrors of my soul 
at this terrible vision ; I mean, that even while it was a 
dream, I even dreamed of those horrors ; nor is it any 
more possible to describe the impression that remained 
upon my mind when 1 awaked, and found it was but a 
dream. 

1 had, alas ! no divine knowledge ; what I had 
received by the good instruction of my father was then 
worn out, by an uninterrupted series, for eight years, of 
seafaring wickedness, and a constant conversation with 
nothing but such were, like myself, wicked and pro- 
fane to the last degree. I do not remember that I 
had, in all that time, one thought that so much as 
tended either to looking upwards toward God, or in- 
wards towards a reflection upon my ways ; but a 
certain stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or 
conscience of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me ; 
and 1 was all that the most hardened, unthinking, 
wicked creature among our common sailors can be 
supposed to be ; not having the least sense, either of 
the fear of God, in danger, or of thankfulness to God, 
in deliverances. 

In the relating what is already past of my story, this 
will be the more easily believed, when I shall add, 
that through all the variety of miseries that had to this 
day befallen me, 1 never had so much as one thought 
of it being the hand of God, or that it was a just 



88 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

punishment for my sin ; my rebellious behaviour 
aj^aiiist my father^, or my present sins, which were 
great ; or so much as a punishinent for the general 
course of my wicked life. vVhen I was on the desperate 
expedition on the desert shores of Africa, I never 
had so mucli as one thought of what would become 
of me ; or one wish to God to direct me whither I 
should go, or to keep me from the danger which 
apparently surrounded me, as well from voracious 
creatures as cruel savages. But I was merely thought- 
less of a God or a Providence ; acted like a mere 
brute from the principles of Nature, and by the dictates 
of common sense only, and indeed liardly that. 

When 1 was delivered and taken up at sea by the 
Portugal captain, well used, and dealt justly and 
honourably with, as well as charitably, 1 had not the 
least thankfulness in my tliouglits. When again I 
was shipw'recked, ruined, and in danger of drowning 
on this island, I was as far from remorse, or looking 
on it as a judgment ; I only said to myself often, 
that I was an unfortunate dog, and born to he always 
miserable. 

It is true, when 1 got on shore first here, and 
found all my ship’s crew drowned, and myself spared, 
1 was surprised with a kind of ecstasy, and some trans- 
ports of soul, which, had the grace of God assisted, 
might have come up to true thankfulness ; but it ended 
where it begun, in a mere common flight of joy, or, as 
I may say, being glad 1 was alive, without the least 
reflection upon the distinguishing goodness of the baud 
which had preserved me, and had singled me out to 
be preserved, when all the rest were destroyed ; or an 
inquiry why Providence had been thus merciful to me; 
even just the same common sort of joy which seamen 
generally have after they are got safe ashore from a 
shipwreck, which they drown all in the next ])owl of 
punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over, and all 
the rest of my life was like it. 

Even when 1 was afterwards, on due consideration, 
made sensible of my condition, how I was cast on this 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 89 

dreadful place, out of the reach of human kind, out 
of all hope of relief, or prospect of redemption, as soon 
as I saw but a prospect of living:, and that I should not 
starve and perish for hunger, all the sense of my afflic- 
tion wore off, and 1 began to be very easy, applied 
myself to the works proper for my preservation and 
supply, and was far enough from being afflicted at my 
condition, as a judgment from heaven, or as the hand 
of God against me ; these were thoughts which very 
seldom entered into my head. 

The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my 
journal, had at first some little influence upon me, 
and began to affect me with seriousness, as long as I 
thought it had something miraculous in it ; but as soon 
as ever that part of the thought was removed, all the 
impression which was raised from it wore off also, as I 
have noted already. 

Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more 
terrible in its nature, or more immediately directing to 
the invisible Power, which alone directs such things, 
yet no sooner was the first fright over, but the impres- 
sion it had made went off also. I had no more sense 
of God or llis judgments, much less of the present 
affliction of my circumstances being from His hand, 
than if 1 had been in the most prosperous condition 
of life. 

But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisurely 
view of the miseries of death came to place itself 
before me ; when my spirits began to sink under the 
burthen of a strong distemper, and Nature was ex- 
hausted with the violence of the fever ; conscience, 
that had slept so long, began to awake, and 1 began 
to reproach myself with my past life, in which I had 
so evidently, by uncommon wickedness, provoked the 
justice of God to lay me under uncommon strokes, 
and to deal with me in so vindictive a manner. 

'Phese reflections oppressed me for the second or 
third day of my distemper ; and in the violence, as 
well of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my 
conscience, extorted some words from me, like praying 



90 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


to God, though I cannot say they were either a prayer 
attended with desires or with hopes ; it was rather the 
voice of mere fright and distress. My thoughts were 
confused, the convictions great upon my mind, and the 
horror of dying in such a miserable condition, raised 
vapours into my head with the mere apprehensions ; 
and in these hurries of my soul, I know not what 
my tongue might express ; but it was rather exclama" 
tion, such as, ^ Lord ! what a miserable creature am 
1 ! If I should be sick, I shall certainly die for want 
of help ; and what will become of me r ’ Then the 
tears burst out of my eyes, and I could say no more 
for a good while. 

In this interval, the good advice of my father can)e 
to my mind, and presently his prediction, which I 
mentioned at the beginning of this story, viz., that if 
I did take this foolish step, God would not bless me, 
and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon 
having neglected his counsel, when there might be 
none to assist in my recovery. ^ Now,* said I aloud, 
^ my dear father’s words are come to pass ; God’s 
justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or 
hear me. I rejected the voice of Providence, wiiich 
had mercifully put me in a posture or station of life 
wherein I might have been happy and easy ; but 1 
would neither see it myself, or learn to know tlie 
blessing of it from my parents. I left them to mourn 
over my folly, and now I am left to mourn under the 
consequences of it. I refused their help and assistance, 
who would have lifted me into the world, and would 
have made everything easy to me ; and now I have 
difficulties to struggle with, too great for even Nature 
itself to support, and no assistance, no help, no com- 
fort, no advice.’ ’llien I cried out, ^ Lord, be my 
hehp, for 1 am in great distress.’ 

This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that 
1 had made for many years. But 1 return to my 
journal. 

June 28. — Having been somewhat refreshed with 
the sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely oflP, I 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 91 

got up ; and though the fright and terror of my dream 
was very great, yet I considered that the fit of the ague 
would return again the next day, and now was my 
time to get something to refresh and support myself 
when 1 should be ill. And the first thing I did 1 
filled a large square case-bottle with water, and set it 
upon my table, in reach of my bed ; and to take off 
the chill or aguish disposition of the water, 1 put 
about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed 
them together. Then 1 got me a piece of the goat’s 
flesh, and broiled it on the coala, but could eat very 
little. 1 walked about, but was very weak, and 
withal very sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my 
miserable condition, dreading the return of my dis- 
temper the next day. At night I made my supper of 
three of the turtle’s eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, 
and eat, as we call it, in the shell ; and this was the 
first bit of meat 1 had ever asked God’s blessing to, 
even as I could remember, in my whole life. 

After 1 had eaten, J tried to walk, but found myself 
so weak, that 1 could hardly carry the gun (for I 
never went out without that) ; so I went but a little 
way, and sat down upon the ground, looking out upon 
the sea, which was just before me, and very calm and 
smooth. As 1 sat there, some such thoughts as these 
occurred to me. 

What is this earth and sea, of which I have seen so 
much ? whence is it produced ? And what am 1, and 
all the other creatures, wild and tame, human and 
brutal, whence are we ? Sure we are all made by some 
secret Power, who formed the earth and sea, the air 
and sky. And who is that.^ 

Then it followed most naturally. It is God that has 
made it all. Well, but then it came on strangely, if 
God has made all these things. He guides and governs 
them all, and all things that concern them ; for the 
Power that could make all things, must certainly have 
power to guide and direct them. 

If so, nothing can h^pen in the great circuit of His 
works, either without His knowledge or appointment. 



92 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


And if nothing happens without Ilis knowledge, He 
knows that 1 am here, and am in this dreadful condi- 
tion. And if nothing happens without His appoint- 
ment, He has appointed ail this to befall me. 

Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict any 
of these conclusions ; and therefore it rested upon me 
with the greater force, that it must needs be that God 
had apj)ointed all this to befall me ; that 1 was brought 
to this miserable circumstance by His direction, He 
having tlie sole power, not of me only, but of every- 
thing that happened in the world. Immediately it 
followed, Why has God done this to me What have 
1 done to be thus used ? 

My conscience presently checked me in that inquiry, 
as if 1 had blasphemed, and methought it spoke to me 
like a voice: ^Wretch! dost thou ask what thou 
hast done ? Look back upon a dreadful missj)ent life, 
and ask thyself what thouliast not done.^ Ask, why is 
it that thou wert not long ago destroyed ? Why wert 
thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads ; killed in the 
fight when the ship was taken by the Sallee man-of- 
war ; devoured by the wild beasts on the coast of 
Africa ; or drowned here, when all the crew 
perished but thyself? Dost thou ask. What have I 
done ? * 

I was struck dumb with these reflections, as one 
astonished, and had not a word to say, no, not to 
answer to myself, but rose up pensive and sad, walked 
back to my retreat, and w'eut up over my wall, as if 
I had been going to bed. But my thoughts were 
sadly disturbed, and 1 had no inclination to sleep ; so 
1 sat down in my chair, and lighted my lamp, for it 
began to be dark. Now, as the apprehension of the 
return of my distemper terrified me very much, it 
occurred to my thought that the Brazilians take no 
physic but their tobacco for almost all distempers ; 
and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the 
chests, which was quite cured, and some also that was 
green, and not quite cured. 

I went, directed by Heaven no doubt; for in this 



ADVEOTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 93 


chest I found a cure both for soul and body. I opened 
the chest, and found what I looked for, viz., the 
tobacco ; and as the few books 1 had saved lay there 
too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned 
before, and which to this time I had not found leisure, 
or so much as inclination, to look into. 1 say, 1 took 
it out, and broug-ht both that and the tobacco with 
me to the table. 

What use to make of the tobacco T knew not, as 
to my distemper, or whether it was f^ood for it or no ; 
but I tried several experiments with it, as if I was 
resolved it should hit one way or other. I first took 
a piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which 
indeed at first almost stupefied my brain, the tobacco 
being green and strong, and that 1 had not been much 
used to it. Tlien I took some and steeped it an hour 
or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it 
when I lay down. And lastly, 1 burnt some upon a 
pan of coals, and held my nose close over the smoke 
of it, as long as I could bear it, as well for the heat, 
as almost for sufFocatiou. 

In the interval of this operation, I took U]) the Bible, 
and began to read, but my head was too much disturbed 
with the tobacco to tear reading, at least that time ; 
only having opened the book casually, the first words 
that occurred to me were these, ‘ Call on Me in the 
day of trouble, and 1 will deliver, and tliou shali. 
glorify Me.' 

llie words were very apt to my case, and made 
some Impression upon my thoughts at the time of 
reading them, though not so much as they did after- 
wards ; for as for being delivered, the word had no 
sound, as 1 may say, to me, the thing was so remote, 
so impossible in my apprehension of things, tliat 1 
began to say, as the children of Israel did when they 
were promised flesh to eat, ^Caii God spread a table 
in the wilderness so I began to say. Can God Him- 
self deliver me from this place And as it was not for 
many years that any hope appeared, this prevailed very 
often upon my thoughts. But, however, the words 



94 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


made a great impression upon me^ and 1 mused upon 
them very often. 

It grew now late, and the tobacco had, as 1 said, 
dozed my head so much, that I inclined to sleep ; so 
1 left my lamp burning in the cave, lest 1 should want 
anything in the night, and went to bed. But before 1 
lay down, I did what 1 never had done in all my life ; 
I kneeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the promise 
to me, that if I called upon Him in the day of trouble. 
He would deliver me. After my broken and imperfect 
prayer was over, I drank the rum in which I had 
steeped the tobacco ; which was so strong and rank of 
the tobacco, that indeed I could scarce get it down. 
Immediately upon this I went to bed. I found presently 
it flew up in my head violently ; but I fell into a sound 
sleep, and waked no more till, by the sun, it must 
necessarily be near three o’clock in the afternoon the 
next day. Nav^ to this hour I am partly of the opinion 
that I slept all the next day and night, and till almost 
three that day after ; for otherwise 1 knew not how 
1 should lose a day out of my reckoning in the days 
of the week, as it appeared some years after I had 
done. For if I had lost it by crossing and re-crossing 
the line, 1 should have lost more than one day. But 
certainly I lost a day in my account, and never knew 
which way. 

Be that, however, one way or the other, when I 
awaked 1 found myself exceedingly refreshed, and my 
spirits lively and cheerful. ^Vhen I got up, I was 
stronger than 1 was the day before, and my stoma(‘.h 
better, for 1 was hungry ; and, in short, I had no fit 
the next day, but continued much altered for the 
better. This was the 29th. 

The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went 
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too far. 
1 killed a sea-fbwl or two, something like a brand- 
goose, and brought them home, but was not very for- 
ward to eat them ; so I eat some more of the turtle’s 
eggs, which were very good. This evening I renewed 
the medicine, which I had supposed did me good the 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 96 

day before, viz. , the tobacco steeped in rum ; only I 
did not take so much as before, nor did 1 chew any of 
the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke. However, 
I was not so well the next day, which was the first of 
July, as 1 hoped 1 should have been ; for 1 had a little 
spice of the cold fit, but it was not much. 

Juiy 2. — I renewed the medicine all the three ways ; 
and dosed myself with it .as at first, and doubled the 
quantity which 1 drank. 

July 3. — I missed the fit for f^ood and all, though I 
did not recover my full strength for some weeks after. 
While 1 was thus gathering strength, my thoughts ran 
exceedingly upon this Scripture, ^ I will deliver thee’ ; 
and the impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon 
my mind, in bar of my ever expecting it. But as 1 was 
discouraging myself with such thoughts, it occurred 
to my mind that I pored so much upon my deliverance 
from the main affliction, that 1 disregarded the deliver- 
ance I had received ; and I was, as it were, made to ask 
myself such questions as these, viz., Have 1 not been 
delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness ? from 
the most distressed condition that could be, and that was 
so frightful to me } and what notice had 1 taken of it } 
Had I done my part ? God had delivered me, but I 
had not glorified Him ; that is to say, I had not owned 
and been thankful for that as a deliverance ; and how 
could I expect greater deliverance.^ 

This touched my heart very much ; and immediately 
I kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud for my 
recovery from my sickness. 

July 4. — In the morning I took the Bible; and 
beginning at the New Testament, I began seriously to 
read it, and imposed upon myself to read awhile every 
morning and every night, not tying myself to the 
number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts should 
engage me. It was not long after I set seriously to 
this work, but I found my heart more deeply and 
sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past life. 
The impression of my dream revived, and the words, 
^ All these things have not brought thee to repentance,’ 



96 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

ran seriously in my thought I was earnestly begging 
of God to give me repentance, when it happened pro- 
videntially, the very day, that, reading the Scripture, 
I came to these words, ^Ile is exalted a Prince and a 
Saviour, to give repentance, and to give remission/ i 
threw down the book ; and with my heart as well as 
my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of ecstasy of 
joy, I cried out aloud, ^ Jesus, Thou son of David ! 
Jesus, Thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me 
repentance ! * 

lliis was the first time that I could say, in the true 
sense of the words, that 1 prayed in all my life ; for 
now 1 prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a 
true Scripture view of ho[»e founded on tlie encourage- 
ment of the Word of God ; and from this time, 1 may 
say, I began to have hope that God would hear me. 

Now I began to construe the words mentioned above, 
^ Call on Mo, and I will deliver you,* in a different 
sense from what I had ever done before ; for then I 
had no notion of anything being called deliverance but 
my being delivered from the captivity 1 was in ; for 
though I was indeed at large in the place, yet the 
island was certainly a prison to me, and that in the 
worst sense in the world. But now I learned to take 
it in another sense ; now I looked back upon my past 
life with such horror, and my sins appeared so dreadful, 
that my soul sought nothing of God but deliverance 
from the load of guilt that bore down all my comfort. 
As for my solitary life, it was nothing ; I did not so 
much as pray to be delivered from it, or think of it ; 
it was all of no consideration, in comparison to this. 
And I add this part here, to hint to whoever shall read 
it, that whenever they come to a true sense of things, 
they will find deliverance from sin a much greater 
blessing than deliverance from affliction. 

But leaving this part, I return to my journal. 

My condition began now to be, though not less 
miserable as to my way of living, yet much easier to 
my mind ; and my thoughts being directed, by a 
constant reading the Scripture, and praying to God, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 97 

to things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of 
comfort within, which, till now, I knew nothing 
of. Also, as my health and stren^h returned, 1 be- 
stirred myself to furnish myself with everything that I 
wanted, and make my way of living as regular as 1 
could. 

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly 
emjjloyed in walking about with my gun in my hand, 
a little and a little at a time, as a man that was 
gathering up his strength after a fit of sickness ; for it 
is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to what 
weakness I was reduced. Tlie a}>plication which 1 
made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps what had 
never cured an ague before ; neither can 1 recommend 
it to any one to practise, by this experiment ; and 
though it did carry off the fit, yet it rather contributed 
to weakening me ; for 1 had frequent convulsions in 
my nerves and limbs for some time. 

I learnt from it also this, in particular, that being 
abroad in the rainy season wfis the most pernicious 
thing to my health that could be, especially in those 
rains which came attended with storms and hurricanes 
of wind ; for as the rain which came in the dry season 
was always most accompanied witli such storms, so I 
found that rain was much more dangerous than the 
rain which fell in September and October. 

1 had been now in this unhappy island above ten 
months ; all possibility of deliverance from this con- 
dition seemed to be entirely taken from me ; and 1 
firmly believed that no human shape had ever set foot 
upon that place. Having now secured my habitation, 
as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great desire to 
make a more perfect discovery of the island, and to see 
what other productions 1 might find, which I yet knew 
nothing of. 

It was the lr5th July that I began to take a more 
particular survey of the island itself. I went up the 
creek first, where, as 1 hinted, 1 brought my rafts on 
shore. I found, after I came about two miles up, that 
the tide did not flow any higher, and that it was no 
u 



98 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


more than a little brook of running water, and very 
fresh and good ; but this being the dry season, there 
was hardly any water in some parts of it, at least, not 
enough to run in any stream, so as it could be per- 
ceived. 

On the bank of this brook I found many pleasant 
savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with 
grass ; and on the rising parts of them, next to the 
higher grounds, where the water, as might be supposed, 
never overflowed, I found a great deal of tobacco, green, 
and growing to a great and very strong stalk. There 
were divers other plants, which I had no notion of, or 
understanding about, and might perhaps have virtues 
of their own, which 1 could not find out. 

1 searched for the cassava root, which the Indians, in 
all that elfmate, make their bread of, but I could find 
none. 1 saw large plants of aloes, but did not then 
understand them. I saw several sugar-canes, but wild, 
and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I contented 
myself with these discoveries for this time, and came 
back, musing with myself what course I might take to 
know the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or 
plants w'hich 1 should discover ; but could bring it to 
no conclusion ; for, in short, I had made so little 
observation while I was in the Brazils, that I knew 
little of the plants in the field, at least very little that 
might serve me to any purpose now in my distress. 

Tlie next day, the ICth, 1 went up the same way 
again ; and after going something farther than 1 had 
gone the day before, I found the brook and the savannas 
began to cease, and the country became more woody 
than before. In this part I found different fruits, and 
particularly I found melons upon the ground in great 
abundance, and grapes upon the trees. The vines had 
spread indeed over the trees, and the clusters of grapes 
were just now in their prime, very ripe and rich. This 
was a surprising discovery, and 1 was exceeding glad 
of them ; but 1 was warned by my experience to eat 
sparingly of them, remembering that when I was ashore 
in Barbary the eating of grapes killed several of our 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 99 


Englishmen, who were slaves there, by throwing them 
into fluxes and fevers. But I found an excellent use 
for these grapes ; and that was, to cure or dry them in 
the sun, and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are 
kept, which 1 thought would be, as indeed they were, 
as wholesome as agreeable to eat, when no grapes might 
be to be had. 

1 spent all that evening there, and went not back to 
my habitation ; which, by the way, was the first night, 
as I might say, I had lain from home. In the night, 
I took my first contrivance, and got up into a tree, 
where 1 slept well ; and the next morning proceeded 
upon my discovery, travelling near four miles, as I 
might judge by the length of the valley, keeping still 
due north, wuth a ridge of hills on the south and north 
side of me. 

At the end of this march I came to an opening, 
where the country seemed to descend to the west ; and 
a little spring of fresh water, which issued out of the 
side of the hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due 
east ; and the country appeared so fresh, so green, so 
flourishing, everything being in a constant verdure 
or flourish of spring, that it looked like a planted 
garden. 

I descended a little on tlje side of that delicious vale, 
surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure, though 
mixed with my other afflicting thoughts, to think that 
this was all my own ; that I was king and lord of all 
this country indefeasibly, and had a right of possession ; 
and, if 1 could convey it, I might have it in inheritance 
as completely as any lord of a manor in England. 1 
saw here abundance of cocoa trees, orange, and lemon, 
and citron trees ; but all wild, and very few bearing 
any fruit, at least not then. However, the green limes 
that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very 
wholesome ; and I mixed their juice afterwards with 
water, which made it very wholesome, and very cool 
and refreshing. 

I found now I had business enough to gather and 
carry home ; and 1 resolved to lay up a store, as well 



100 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

of grapes as limes and lemons to furnish myself for 
the wet season, which 1 knew was approaching. 

In order to this, 1 gathered a great heap of grapes in 
one place, and a lesser heap in another place, and a 
great parcel of limes and lemons in another place ; 
and, taking a few of each with me, I travelled home- 
ward ; and resolved to come again, and bring a bag or 
sack, or what 1 could make, to carry the rest home. 

Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey, 
I came home (so I must now call my tent and my 
cave) ; but before 1 got thither, the grapes were 
spoiled ; the richness of the fruits, and the weight of 
the juice, having broken them and bruised them, they 
were good for little or nothing : as to the limes, they 
were good, but 1 could bring but a few. 

The next day, being the IDth, I went back, having 
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest ; 
but I was surprised, when, coming to my heap of 
grapes, which were so rich and fine when I gathered 
them, I found them all spread about, trod to pieces, 
and dragged about, some here, some there, and abund- 
ance eaten and devoured. By this 1 concluded there 
were some wild creatures thereabouts, which had done 
this ; but what they were, 1 knew not. 

However, as I found that there was no laying them 
up on heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, but 
that one way they would be destroyed, and the other 
way they would be crushed with their own weight, 
1 took another course ; for I gathered a large quantity 
of the grapes, and hung them up upon the out-branches 
of the trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun ; 
and as for the limes and lemons, 1 carried as many 
back as I could well stand under. 

Wlien I came home from this journey, I contem- 
plated with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, 
and the pleasantness of the situation ; the security 
from storms on that side the water and the wood ; 
and concluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix 
my abode, which was by far the worst part of the 
country. Upon the wdiole, I began to consider of 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 101 


removing my habitation, and to look out for a place 
equally safe as where I now was situate, if possible, in 
that pleasant fruitful part of the island. 

lliis thought ran long in my head, and I was ex- 
ceeding fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of 
the place tempting me ; but when I came to a nearer 
view of it, and to consider that I was now by the sea- 
side, where it was at least possible that something 
might happen to my advantage, and, by the same ill 
fate that brought me hither, might bring some other 
unhappy wretches to the same place ; and though it 
was scarce probable that any such thing should ever 
happen, yet to enclose myself among the hills and 
woods in the centre of the island, was to anticipate my 
bondage, and to render such an affair not only improb- 
able, but impossible ; and that therefore I ought not 
by any means to remove. 

However, I was so enamoured of this place, that I 
spent much of my time there for the whole remaining 
part of the month of July ; and though, upon second 
thoughts, I resolved, as above, not to remove, yet 1 
built me a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at 
a distance with a strong fence, being a double hedge as 
high as I could reach, well staked, and filled between 
with brushwood. And here I lay very secure, some- 
times two or three nights together, always going over 
it with a ladder, as before ; so that I fancied now I had 
my country house and my sea-coast house ; and this 
work took me up to the beginning of August. 

1 had but newly finished my fence, and began to 
enjoy my labour, but the rains came on, and made me 
stick close to my first habitation ; for though I had 
made me a tent like the other, with a piece of a sail, and 
spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter of a hill 
to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me to 
retreat into when the rains were extraordinary. 

About the beginning.of August, as I said, I had 
finished my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 
3rd of August, I found the grapes 1 had hung up 
were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good 



102 ADVEOTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


raisins of the sun ; so I began to take them down 
from the trees. And it was very happy that J did so, 
for the rains which followed would have spoiled them, 
and 1 had lost the best part of my winter food ; for 
I had above two hundred large bunches of them. No 
sooner had I taken them all down, and carried most 
of them home to my cave, but it began to rain ; and 
from hence, which was the 14th of August, it rained, 
more or less, every day till the middle of October, 
and sometimes so violently, that 1 could not stir out of 
my cave for several days. 

In this season, I was much surprised with the 
increase of my family. I had been concerned for 
the loss of one of my cats, w'ho run away from me, 
or, as I thought, had been dead, and I heard no more 
tale or tidings of her, till, to my astonishment, she 
came home about the end of August with three 
kittens, "i’his was the more strange to me, because, 
though 1 had killed a wild cat, as 1 called it, wuth 
my gun, yet I thought it was a quite different kind 
from our European cats ; yet the young cats were the 
same kind of house-breed like the ohl one ; and both 
my cats being females, I thought it very strange. But 
from these three cats I afterwards came to be so 
pestered with cats, that 1 was forced to kill them like 
vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive them from my 
house as much as possible. 

From the 14th of August to the 2r)th, incessant 
rain, so that I could not stir, and was now very 
careful not to be much wet In this confinement, 1 
began to be straitened for food ; but venturing out 
twice, 1 one day killed a goat, and the last day, which 
was the 2Gth, found a very large tortoise, which 
was a treat to me, and my food was regulated thus : 
I eat a bunch of raisins for my breakfast, a piece of 
the goafs flesh, or of the turtle, for my dinner, 
broiled ; for, to my great misfortune, I had no vessel 
to boil or stew anything ; and two or three of the 
turtle’s eggs for my supper. 

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 103 

I worked daily two or three hours at enlarging iny 
cave, and by degrees worked it on towards one side, 
till I came to the outside of the hill, and made a door, 
or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall ; 
and so I came in and out this way. But 1 was not 
perfectly easy at lying so open ; for as I had managed 
myself before, 1 was in a perfect enclosure ; whereas 
now, I thought 1 lay exposed, and open for anything 
to come in upon me ; and yet I could not perceive that 
there was any living thing to fear, the biggest creature 
that I had yet seen upon the island being a goat. 

^epL 30. — 1 was now come to the unhappy anni- 
versary of my landing. I cast up the notches on my 
post, and found 1 had been on shore three hundred 
and sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, 
setting it apart to religious exercise, prostrating myself 
on the ground with the most serious humiliation, con- 
fessing my sins to God, acknowledging His righteous 
judgments upon me, and praying to Him to have mercy 
on me through Jesus Christ ; and having not tasted the 
least refreshment for twelve hours, even till the going 
down of the sun, 1 then eat a biscuit-cake and a bunch of 
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as 1 began it. 

1 had all this "time observed no Sabbath day, for as 
at first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had, 
after some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks, by 
making a longer notch than ordinary for the Sabbath 
day, and so did not really know what any of the days 
were. But now, having cast up the days, as above, 
I found I had been there a year, so I divided it into 
weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a Sabbath ; 
though 1 found at the end of my account, I had lost a 
day or two in my reckoning. 

A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so 
1 contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to 
write down only the most remarkable events of my life, 
w ithout continuing a daily memorandum of other things. 

The rainy season and the dry season began now to 
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them so 
as to provide for them accordingly ; but I bought all 



104 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

my experience before I had it, and this I am going* to 
relate was one of the most discouraging experiments 
that I made at all. I have mentioned that I had saved 
the few ears of barley and rice, which I had so sur- 
prisingly found spring up, as I thought, of themselves, 
and believe there were about thirty stalks of rice, and 
about twenty of barley ; and now 1 thought it a proper 
time to sow it after the rains, the sun being in its 
southern position, going from me. 

Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground as well as I 
could with my wooden spade, and dividing it into two 
parts, 1 sowed my grain ; but as 1 was sowing, it 
casually occurred to my thoughts that I would not 
sow it all at first, because I did not know when was 
the proj»er time for it, so I sowed about two-tliirds of 
the seed, leaving about a handful of each. 

It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did 
so, for not one grain of that I sowed this time came to 
anything, for the dry months following, the earth 
having had no raiji after the seed was sown, it had 
no moisture to assist its growth, and never came up 
at all till the wet season had come again, and then 
it grew as if it had been hut newly sown. 

Finding my first .seed did not grow, which I easily 
imagined was by the drought, I sought for a moister 
piece of ground to make another trial in, and 1 dug 
up a piece of ground near my new bower, and sowed 
the rest of my seed in February, a little before the 
vernal equinox. And this having the rainy months of 
March and April to water it, sprung up very pleasantly, 
and yielded a very good crop ; but having part of the 
seed left only, and not daring to sow all that I had, 
I had but a small quantity at last, my whole crop not 
amounting to above half a peck of each kind. But by 
this experiment 1 was made master of my business, and 
knew exactly wdien tlie proper season was to sow, and 
that I might expect two seed-times and two harvests 
every year. 

While this corn was growing, I made a little dis- 
covery, which was of use to me afterwards. As soon 



ADVEOTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 106 


as the rains were over, and the weather began to settle, 
which was about the month of November, 1 made a 
visit up the country to my bower, where, though 1 had 
not been some months, yet I found all things just as f 
left them. "J’he circle or double hedge tliat I had 
made was not only firm and entire, but the stakes 
which I had cut out of some trees that grew there- 
abouts were all shot out, and grown with long branches, 
as much as a willow-tree usually shoots the first year 
after lopping its head. I could not tell what tree to 
call it that these stakes were cut from. I was sur- 
prised, and yet very well pleased to see the young trees 
grow, and J pruned them, and led them up to grow as 
much alike as I could. And it is scarce credible how 
beautiful a figure they grew into in three years ; so that 
though the hedge made a circle of about twenty-five 
yards in diameter, yet the trees, for such I might now 
call them, soon covered it, and it was a complete shade, 
sufficient to lodge under all the dry season. 

This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and 
make me a hedge like this, in a semicircle round my 
wall (I mean that of my first dwelling), which 1 did ; 
and placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at 
about eight yards distance from my first fence, they 
grew presently, and were at first a fine cover to my 
habitation, and aftervard served for a defence also, as 
1 shall observe in its order. 

I found now that the seasons of the year might 
generally be divided, not into summer and winter, as 
in ICurope, but into the rainy seasons and the dry 
seasons ; which were generally thus ; 


Half February 1 
March I 
Half April J 
Half April 
May 
June, 

July 

Half August 


Rainy, the sun being then on, or near 
the e<iuinox. 


Dry, the sun being then to the north 
of the line. 



106 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


Half August 

September [ 
Half October J 
Half October 
November 
December - 
January 
Half February ^ 


Rainy, the sun being then come hack. 


Dry, the sun being then to the south 
of the line. 


The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter 
as the winds happened to blow, but this was the general 
observation I made. After 1 had found by experience 
the ill consequence of being abroad in the rain, I took 
care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand, that 
1 might not be obliged to go out ; and I sat within 
doors as much as possible during the wet months. 

In this time I found much employment, and very 
suitable also to the time, for 1 found great occasion of 
many things which I had no way to furnish myself 
with but by hard labour and constant application ; 
particularly, I tried many ways to make myself a 
basket ; but all the twigs I could get for the purpose 
proved so brittle, that they would do nothing. It 
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when I 
was a boy 1 used to take great delight in standing at 
a basket-maker’s in the town where my father lived, to 
see them make their wicker-ware ; and being, as boys 
usually are, very officious to help, and a great observer 
of the manner how they worked those things, and 
sometimes lending a hand, I had by this means full 
knowledge of the methods of it, that I wanted nothing 
but the materials ; when it came into my mind that the 
twigs of that tree from whence 1 cut my stakes that 
grew might possibly be as tough as the sallows, and 
willows, and osiers in England, and 1 resolved to try. 

Accordingly, the next day, I went to my country 
house, as I called it ; and cutting some of the smaller 
twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could 
desire ; whereupon I came the next time prepared with 
a hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I soon found, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 107 

for tliere was great plenty of them. These I set up to 
dry within my circle or hedge, and when they were fit 
for use, I carried them to my cave ; and here during 
the next season I employed myself in making, as well 
as 1 could, a great many baskets, both to carry earth, 
or to carry or lay up anything as I had occasion. And 
though I did not finish them very handsomely, yet I 
made them wSufficiontly serviceable for my purpose. 
And thus, afterwards, 1 took care never to be w'ithout 
them ; and as my wicker-ware decayed, I made more, 
especially I made strong deep baskets to place my corn 
in, instead of sacks, when 1 should come to have any 
quantity of it. 

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a 
world of time about it, 1 bestirred myself to see, if 
possible, how to supply two w'ants. I had no vessels 
to hold anything that w^as liquid, except two runlets, 
which were almost full of rum, and some glass bottles, 
some of the common size, and others which were case- 
bottles square, for the holding of waters, spirits, etc. 
I had not so much as a pot to boil anything, except a 
great kettle, which 1 saved out of the ship, and which 
was too big for such use as I desired it, viz., to make 
broth, and stew a hit of meat by itself. The second 
thing 1 w'ould fain have had was a tobacco-pipe ; but 
it was impossible to me to make one. However, I 
found a contrivance for that, too, at last. 

I employed myself in planting my second rows of 
stakes or piles and in this wicker -working all the 
summer or dry season, when another business took me 
up more time than it could be imagined 1 could spare. 

J mentioned before that I had a great mind to see 
the whole island, and that I had travelled up the brook, 
and so on to where i built my bower, and where I had 
an opening quite to the sea, on the other side of the 
island. I now resolved to travel quite across to the 
seashore on that side ; so taking my gun, a hatchet, 
and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot 
than usual, with two biscuit-cakes and a great bunch of 
raisins in my pouch for my store, I began my journey. 



108 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

When I had passed the vale where my bower stood, as 
above, I came within view of the sea to the west ; and 
it being a very clear day, I fairly descried land, whether 
an island or a continent I could not tell ; but it lay very 
high, extending from the west to the W.S.W. at a very 
great dishince ; by my guess, it could not be less than 
fifteen or twenty leagues off. 

1 could not tell what part of the world this might 
be, otherwise than that I know it must be part of 
America, and, as 1 concluded, by all my observations, 
must be near the Spanish dominions, and perhaps was 
all inhabited by savages, where, if 1 should have landed, 
I had been in a worse condition than I was now ; and 
therefore I acquiesced in the dispositions of Providence, 
which I began now to own and to believe ordered 
everything for the best. I say, 1 quieted my mind Mnth 
this, and left afflicting myself with fruitless wishes of 
being there. 

Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I con- 
sidered that if this land was the Spanish coast, I should 
certainly, one time or other, see some vessel pass or 
repass one way or other ; but if not, then it was the 
savage coast between the Spanish country and Brazils, 
which are indeed the worst of savages ; for they are 
cannibals or men-eaters, and fail not to murder and 
devour all the human bodies that fall into their hands. 

With these considerations I walked very leisurely 
forward. 1 found that side of the island, where I now 
was, much pleasanter than mine, the open or savanna 
fields sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, and full of 
very fine woods. 

I saw abundance of parrots, and fain I would have 
caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and 
taught it to speak to me. I did, after some pains- 
taking, catch a young parrot, for I knocked it down 
with a stick, and having recovered it, I brought it 
home ; but it was some years before I could make him 
speak. However, at last I kiught him to call me by my 
name very familiarly. But the accident that followed, 
though it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its place. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 109 

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey, 1 
found in the low grounds hares, as I thought them to 
be, and foxes ; but they differed greatly from all the 
other kinds 1 had met with, nor could 1 satisfy myself 
to eat them, though I killed several. But 1 had no 
need to bo venturous, for I had no want of food, and 
of that which was very good too ; especially these 
three sorts, viz., goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise ; 
which, added to my grapes, Leadeuhall Market could 
not have furnished a tiible better than 1, in proportion 
to the company. And though my case was deplorable 
enough, yet I had great cause for thankfulness, and 
that I was not driven to any extremities for food, but 
rather plenty, even to dainties. 

1 never travelled in this journey above two miles out- 
right in a day, or thereabouts ; but I took so many 
turns and returns, to see what discoveries 1 could make, 
that I came weary enough to the place where 1 resolved 
to sit down for all night ; and then 1 either reposed 
myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row of 
stakes, set upright in the ground, either from one tree 
to another, or so as no wild creature could come at me 
without waking me. 

As soon as I came to the seashore, I was surprised 
to see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of 
the island, for here indeed the shore was covered with 
innumerable turtles ; whereas, on the other side, I had 
found but three in a year and a half. Here was also 
an infinite number of fowls of many kinds, some which 
I had seen, and some which I had not seen of before, 
and many of them very good meat, but such as 1 knew 
not the names of, except those called penguins. 

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very 
sparing of my powder and shot, and therefore had more 
mind to kill a she-goat, if 1 could, which 1 could better 
feed on ; and though there were many goats here, more 
than on my side the island, yet it was with much more 
difficulty that 1 could come near them, the country 
being flat and even, and they saw me much sooner than 
when I was on the hill. 



110 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


1 confess this side of the country was much pleasanter 
than mine ; but yet I had not the least inclination to 
remove, for as 1 was fixed in my habitation, it became 
natural to me, and I seemed all the while I was here to 
be as it were upon a journey, and from home. How- 
ever, I travelled along the shore of the sea towards the 
east, I suppose about twelve miles, and then setting up 
a great pole upon the shore for a mark, 1 concluded 1 
would go home again ; and that the next journey I took 
should be on the other side of the island, east from my 
dwelling, and so round till I came to my post again ; 
of which in its place. 

I took another way to come back than that I went, 
thinking 1 could easily keep all the island so much in 
my view, that 1 could not miss finding my first dwell- 
ing by viewing the country. But 1 found myself mis- 
taken ; for being come about two or three miles, 1 
found myself descended into a very large valley, but 
so surrounded with hills, and those hills covered with 
wood, that I could not see which was my way by any 
direction but that of the sun, nor even then, unless 1 
knew very well the position of the sun at that time of 
the day. 

It happened to my farther misfortune, that the 
weather proved hazy for three or four days while 1 
was in this valley ; and not being able to see the sun, 1 
wandered about very uncomfortably, and at last was 
obliged to find out the seaside, look for my post, and 
come back the same way I went ; and then by easy 
journeys I turned homeward, the weather being exceed- 
ing hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other 
things very heavy. 

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and 
seized upon it, and 1 running in to take hold of it, 
caught it, and saved it alive from the dog. I had a 
great mind to bring it home if I could, for I had often 
been musing whether it might not be possible to get a 
kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame goats, which 
might supply me when my pow'der and shot should be 
all spent. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 111 

I made a collar to this little creature, and with a 
string, which 1 made of some 'rope-yarn, which I 
always carried about me, I led him ^ong, though with 
some difficulty, till I came to my bower, and there I 
enclosed him and left him, for I was very impatient to 
be at home, from whence I had been absent above a 
month. 

J cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to 
come into my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock- 
bed. This little wandering journey, without settled 
place of abode, liad been so unpleasant to me, that my 
own house, as 1 called it to myself, was a perfect 
settlement to me compared to that ; and it rendered 
everything about me so comfortable, that 1 resolved I 
would never go a great way from it again, while it 
should be my lot to stay on the island. 

I rejKised myself here a week, to rest and regale 
myself after my long journey ; during which most of 
the time was taken up in the weighty affair of making 
a cage for my Poll, who began now to be a mere 
domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted with me. 
Tlieu I began to think of the poor kid which 1 had 
penned in within my little circle, and resolved to go 
and fetch it home, or give it some food. Accordingly 
1 went, and found it wffiere 1 left it, for indeed it 
could not get out,* but almost starved for want of 
food. I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches 
of such shrubs as I could find, and threw it over, 
and having fed it, 1 tied it as I did before, to lead it 
away ; but it was so tame wdth being hungry, that I 
had no need to have tied it, for it followed me like a 
dog. And as 1 continually fed it, the creature became 
so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it became from 
that time one of my domestics also, and would never 
leave me afterwards. 

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now 
come, and I kept the ilOth of September in the same 
solemn manner as befoie, being the anniversary of my 
landing on the island, having now been there two years, 
and no more prospect of being delivered than the first 



112 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

day I came there. I spent the whole day in humble 
and thcankful acknowledgments of the many wonderful 
mercies which my solitary condition was attended with, 
and without which it might have been infinitely more 
miserable. 1 gave humble and h6arty thanks that God 
had been pleased to discover to me even that it was 
possible 1 might be more happy in this solitary condi- 
tion, than 1 should have been in a liberty of society, 
and in all the pleasures of the world ; that He could 
fully make up to me the deficiencies of my solitary 
state, and the want of human society, by His presence, 
and the communications of His grace to my soul, 
supporting, comforting, and encouraging mo to depend 
upon Ilis providence here, and hope for His eternal 
presence hereafter. 

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much 
more happy this life I now led was, with all its miser- 
able circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable 
life 1 led all the past part of my days. And now I 
changed both my sorrows and my joys ; my very de- 
sires altered, my affections changed their gusts, and 
my delights were perfectly new from what they were 
at my first coming, or indeed for the two years past. 

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or 
for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my 
condition w^ould break out upon me on a sudden, and 
my very heart M’ould die within me, to think of the 
woods, the mountains, the deserts 1 was in, and how 
1 was a prisoner, locked up with the eternal bars and 
bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without 
redemption. In the midst of the greatest composures 
of my mind, this would break out upon me like a storm, 
and make me wring my hands, and weep like a child. 
Sometimes it would take me in the middle of my work, 
and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look 
upon the ground for an hour or two together ; and this 
was still worse to me, for if I could burst out into tears, 
or vent myself by words, it would go off, and the grief, 
having exhausted itself, would abate. 

But now I began to exercise myself with new 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 113 

thoughts. I daily read the Word of God, and applied 
all the comforts of it to my present state. One morning, 
being very sad, I opened the Bible upon these words, 

^ 1 will never, never leave thee, nor forsake thee." Im- 
mediately it occurred that these words were to me ; why 
else should they be directed in such a manner, just at 
the moment when I was mourning over my condition, 
as one forsaken of God and man.^ ^Well then,’ said 
1, ^if God does not forsake mo, of what ill conse- 
quence can it be, or w'hat matters it, though the world 
should all for&ake me, seeing on the other hand if 1 had 
all the world, and should lose tlie favour and blessing 
of God, there would be no comparison in the loss.^’ 

From this moment I began to conclude in my mind 
that it was possible for me to be more happy in this 
forsaken solitary condition, than it was probable 1 
should ever liave been in any other particular state in 
the world, and with this thouglit 1 was going to give 
thanks to God for bringing me to this place. 

I know not what it was, but something shocked my 
mind at that thought, and 1 durst not speak the words. 
^ How canst thou be such a hypocrite/ said 1, even 
audibly, ‘to pretend to be thankful for a condition 
which, however thou mayest endeavour to be contented 
with, thou wouldest father pray heartily to be delivered 
from?’ So h stopped there; but though I could not 
say 1 thanked God for being there, yet 1 sincerely gave 
thanks to God for opening my eyes, by whatever 
adlictiug providences, to see the former condition of 
my life, and to mourn for my wickedness, and repent. 

I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul 
within me blessed God for directing my friend in England, 
without any order of mine, to pack it up among my goods, 
and for assisting me afterwards to save it out of the wreck 
of the ship. 

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my 
third year ; and though 1 have not given the reader 
the trouble of so particular account of my works this 
year as the first, yet in general it may be observed, that 
I w^as very seldom idle, but having regularly divided 

I 



114 ADVENIWES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

my time, according to the several daily employments 
that were before me, such as, first, my duty to God, 
and the reading the Scriptures, which 1 constantly set 
apart some time for, thrice every day ; secondly, tlie 
going abroad with my gun for food, which generally 
took me up three hours in every morning, when it did 
not rain ; thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving, and 
cooking what 1 had killed or catched for my supply ; 
these took up great part of the day ; also, it is to be 
considered that the middle of the day, when the sun 
was in the zenith, the violence of the heat was too great 
to stir out ; so that about four hours in the evening was 
all the time I could he supposed to work in, with this 
exception, that sometimes J changed my hours of hunt- 
ing and working, and went to work in the morning, and 
abroad with my gun in the afternoon. 

To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may 
be added the exceeding laboriousness of my work ; the 
many hours which, for want of tools, want of help, and 
want of skill, everything I did took up out of my time. 
For example, I was full two and forty days making me 
a hoard for a long shelf, which 1 wanted in my cave ; 
whereas two sawyers, with their toolsand a saw-pit, would 
have cut six of them out of the same tree in half a day. 

My case was this : it was to be a large tree which 
was to be cut down, because my board was to be a 
broad one. lliis tree I was three days a-cutting down, 
and two more cutting off the boughs, and reducing it to 
a log, or piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking 
and hewing, J reduced both the sides of it into chips 
till it begun to be light enough to move ; then 1 turned 
it, and made one side of it smooth and flat as a board 
from end to end ; then turning that side downward, 
cut the other side, till 1 brought the plank to be about 
three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any 
one may judge the labour of my hands in such a piece 
of work ; but labour and patience carried me through 
that, and many other things. I only observe this in 
particular, to show the reason why so much of my time 
went away with so little work, viz., that what might 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 116 

be a little to be done with help and tools, was a vast 
iabour, and required a prodi^nous time to do alone^ and 
by hand. But notwithstanding this^ with patience and 
labour, I went through many things, and, indeed, every- 
thing that my circumstances made necessary to me to 
do, as will appear by what follows. 

I was now, in the months of November and De- 
cember, expecting my crop of barley and rice, llie 
ground 1 had manured or dug up for them was not 
great ; for as I obser^’ed, my seed of ea(;h w^as not above 
the quantity of half a peck ; for I had lost one whole 
crop by sowing in the dry season. But now my crop 
promised very well, when on a sudden I found I was in 
danger of losing it all again by enemies of several sorts, 
which it was scarce possible to keep from it ; as, first 
the goats and wild creatures which 1 called hares, who, 
tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and 
day, as soon as it came up, and eat it so close, that it 
could get no time to shoot up into stalk. 

TTiis I saw no remedy for but by making an enclo- 
sure about it with a hedge, which I did with a great 
deal of toil, and the more, because it required speed. 
However, as my arable land was but small, suited to 
my crop, 1 got it totally well fenced in about throe 
weeks’ time, and shjooting some of the creatures in the 
daytime, T set my dog to guard it in the night, tying 
him up to a stake at the gate, where he would stand 
and bark all night long ; so in a little time the enemies 
forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong and 
well, and began to ripen apace. 

But as the beasts ruined me before while my corn 
was in the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me 
now when it was in the ear ; for going along by the 
place to see how it throve, I saw my Tittle crop sur- 
rounded with fowls, of I know not how many sorts, 
who stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone. 
I immediately let fly among them, for 1 always had my 
gun with me. 1 had no sooner shot, but there rose up 
a little cloud of fowls, which 1 had not seen at all, from 
among the corn itself. 



116 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

This touched nie sensibly, for 1 foresaw that in a few 
days they would devour all my hopes, that I should be 
starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all, and 
what to do 1 could not tell. However, I resolved not 
to lose my corn, if possible, though I should watch it 
night and day. In the first place, I went among it to 
see what damage was already done, and found they 
had spoiled a good deal of it ; but that as it was yet 
too green for them, the loss was not so great but that 
the remainder was like to be a good crop if it could be 
saved. 

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away, 
I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees 
about me, as if they only waited till 1 was gone away. 
And the event proved it to be so ; for as 1 walked off, 
as if 1 was gone, 1 was no sooner out of their sight 
but they dropped down, one by one, into the corn again. 
I was so provoked, that I could not have patience 
to stay till more came on, knowing that every grain 
that they eat now was, as it might be said, a peck-loaf 
to me in the coiiseipience ; but coming up to the hedge, 
I fired again, and killed three of them. This was 
what 1 wished for ; so 1 took them up, and served them 
as we serve notorious thieves in England, viz., hanged 
them in chains, for a terror to others. It is impossible 
to imagine almost that this should have such an effect 
as it had, for tlie fowls would not only not come at the 
corn, but, in short, they forsook all that part of the 
island, and 1 could never see a bird near the j)lace as 
long as my scare-crows hung there. 

This 1 was very glad of, you may be sure ; and about 
the latter end of December, which was our second 
harvest of the year, I reaped my crop. 

J was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut it 
down, and all I could do was to make one as well as I 
could out of one of the broadswords, or cutlasses, which 
1 saved among the arms out of the ship. However, as 
my first crop was but small, 1 had no great difficulty to 
cut it down ; in short, 1 reaped it my way, for 1 cut 
nothing off but the ears, and carried it a\ray in a great 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 117 

basket which I had made^ and so rubbed it out with my 
hands ; and at the end of all my harvesting, I found 
that out of my half peck of seed 1 had near two bushels 
of rice, and above two bushels and a half of barley, 
that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure at 
that time. 

However, this was a great encouragement to me, 
and 1 foresaw that, in time, it would please God to 
supply me with bread. And yet here I was perplexed 
again, for I neither knew how to grind or make meal 
of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it ; nor, 
if made into meal, how to make bread of it, and if how 
to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. These 
things being added to my desire of having a good 
quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply, I 
resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve 
it all for seed against the next season, and, in the 
meantime, to employ all my study and hours of work- 
ing to accomplish this great work of providing myself 
with corn and bread. 

It might be truly said, that now I worked for my 
bread. *Tis a little wonderful, and what I believe 
few people have thought much upon, viz. , the strange 
multitude of little things necessary in the providing, 
producing, curing, dressing, making, and finishing 
this one article of bread. 

1, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found 
this to my daily discouragement, and was made more 
and more sensible of it every hour, even after 1 had 
got the first handful of seed-corn, which, as I have 
said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise. 

First, 1 had no plough to turn up the earth, no 
spade or shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered by 
making a wooden spade, as I observed before, but this 
did iny work in but a wooden manner ; and though it 
cost me a great many days to make it, yet, for want 
of iron, it not only wore out the sooner, but made my 
work the harder, and made it be performed much worse. 

However, this I bore with, and was content to 
work it out with patience, and bear with the badness 



118 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

of the performance. When the corn was sowed, 1 
had no harrow, but was forced to go over it myself, 
and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to 
scratch it, as it may be called, rather than rake or 
harrow it. 

When it was growing and grown, I have observed 
already how many things I wanted to fence it, secure 
it, mow or reap it, cure and carry it home, thrash, 
part it from the chaff, and save it. Tlien I wanted 
a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt 
to make it into bread, and an oven to bake it, and yet 
all these things 1 did without, as shall be observed ; 
and yet the corn was an inestimable comfort and 
advantiige to me too. All this, as 1 said, made every- 
thing laborious and tedious to me, but that there was 
no help for ; neither was my tinm so much loss to me, 
because, as 1 had divided it, a certain part of it was 
every day appointed to these works, and as 1 resolved 
to use none of the corn for bread till I had a greater 
quantity by me, 1 had the next six mouths to apply 
myself wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish 
myself with utensils proper for the performing all the 
operations necessary for the making the corn, when 
I had it, fit for my use. 

But first 1 was to prepare more land, for 1 had now 
seed enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before 
1 did this, 1 bad a week’s work at least to make me 
a spade, which, when it was done, was but a sorry one 
indeed, and very heavy, and re<juired double labour to 
work with it. However, 1 went tlirough that, and 
sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground, as 
near my house as I could find them to my mind, and 
fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which 
were all cut of that wood which 1 had set before, and 
knew it would grow ; so that in one year’s time I 
knew 1 should have a quick or living hedge, that 
would want but little repair. This work w^is not so 
little as to take me up less than three months, because 
great part of that time was of the wet season, when 1 
could not go abroad. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 119 


Within doors, that is, when it rained, and 1 could 
not go out, 1 found employment on the following 
occasions ; always observing, that all the while I was 
at work, 1 diverted myself with talking to my parrot, 
and teaching him to speak, and I quickly learned him 
to know his own name, and at last to speak it out 
pretty loud, ^ Poll,’ which was the first word 1 ever 
heard spoken in the island by any mouth but my own. 
This, therefore, was not my work, but an assistant to 
my work ; for now, as 1 said, 1 had a great employ- 
ment upon my hands, as follows, viz., I had long 
studied, by some means or other, to make myself some 
earthen vessels, which indeed 1 wanted sorely, but 
knew not where to come at them. However, con- 
sidering the heat of the climate, 1 did not doubt but 
if 1 could find out any such clay, I might botch up 
some su(;h pot as might, being dried in the sun, be 
hard enough and strong enough to bear handling, 
and to hold anything that was dry, and required to 
be kept so ; and as this was necessary in the preparing 
corn, meal, etc., which was the thing I was upon, I 
resolved to make some as large as 1 could, and fit 
only to stand like jars, to hold what should be put 
into them. 

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh 
at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise 
this paste ; what odd, misshapen, ugly things 1 made ; 
how many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the 
clay not being stift enough to bear its own weight ; 
how many cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun, 
being set out too hastily ; and how many fell in pieces 
with only removing, as well before as after they were 
dried ; and, in a word, how, after having laboured hard 
to find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it 
home, and work it, I could not make above two large 
earthen ugly things (1 cannot call them Jars) in about 
two months’ labour. 

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and 
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down 
again in two great wicker baskets, which I had made 



120 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

on purpose for them, that they might not break ; and 
as between the pot and the basket there was a little 
room to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and barley 
straw, and these two pots being to stand always dry, 
1 thought would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the 
meal, when the corn was bruised. 

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large 
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better 
success ; such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, 
and pipkins, and any things my hand turned to ; and 
the heat of the sun baked them sti-angely hard. But 
all this would not answer my end, which was to get 
an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the 
fire, which none of these could do. It happened after 
some time, making a pretty large fire for cooking my 
meat, when 1 went to put it out after I had done with 
it, I found a broken piece of one of my earthenware 
vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone, and red 
as a tile. I was agreeably surprised to see it, and 
said to myself, that certainly they might be made to 
burn whole, if they would burn broken. 

lliis set me to studying how to order my fire, so 
as to make it burn me some pots. 1 had no notion 
of a kiln, such as the potters burn in, or of glazing 
them w^ith lead, though 1 had some lead to do it with ; 
but 1 placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots 
in a pile, one upon another, and placed my firewood 
all round it, with a great heap of embers under them. 
I plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and 
upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-hot 
quite through, and observed that they did not crack 
at all. When I saw them clear red, 1 let them stand 
in that heat about five or six hours, till I found one 
of them, though it did not crack, did melt or run, for 
the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the 
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass, 
if I had gone on ; so I slacked my fire gradually till 
the pots began to abate of the red colour ; and watch- 
ing them all night, that 1 might not let the fire abate 
too fast, in the morning I had three very good, 1 will 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 121 

not say handsome, pipkins, and two other earthen 
pots, as hard burnt as could be desired, and one of 
them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand. 

After this experiment, I need not say that J wanted 
no sort of earthenware for my use ; but I must needs 
say, as to the shapes of them, they were very indifferent, 
as any one may suppose, when I had no way of making 
them but as the children make dirt pies, or as a 
woman would make pies that never learned to raise 
paste. 

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal 
to mine, wlicn 1 found I had made an earthen pot that 
would bear the fire ; and 1 had hardly patience to stay 
till they were cold, before I set one upon the fire again, 
with some water in it, to boil me some meat, which it 
did admirably well ; and with a piece of a kid I made 
some very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal and 
several otlier ingredients requisite to make it so good 
as 1 would have had it been. 

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to 
stamp or beat some corn in ; for as to the mill, there 
was no thought at arriving to that perfection of art 
with one pair of hands. To supply this want I was 
at a great loss ; foy, of all trades in the world, 1 was 
as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter as for any 
whatever ; neither had I any tools to go about it with. 
I spent many a day to find out a great stone big 
enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and 
could find none at Jill, except what was in the solid 
rock, and which 1 had no way to dig or cut out ; nor 
indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness suffi- 
cient, but were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which 
neither would bear the weight of a heavy pestle, or 
would break the corn without filling it with sand. 
So, after a great deal of time lost in searching for a 
stone, 1 gave it over, and resolved to look out for a 
great block of hard wo(»d, which 1 found indeed much 
easier ; and getting one as big as 1 had strength to 
stir, I rounded it, and formed it in the outside with 
my axe and hatchet, and then, with the help of fire, 



122 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


and infinite labour^ made a hollow place in it^ as the 
Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, 1 
made a great heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood 
called the iron-wood ; and this I prepared and laid by 
against 1 had my next crop of corn, when I proposed 
to myself to grind, or rather pound, my corn into 
meal, to make my bread. 

IVly next difficulty was to make a sieve, or search, 
to dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and the 
husk, without which 1 did not see it possible I could 
have any bread. This was a most difficult thing, so 
much as but to think on, for to be sure I had nothing 
like the necessary thing to make it ; I mean fine thin 
canvas or stuff, to search the meal through. And here 
I was at a full stop for many months, nor did 1 really 
know what to do ; linen I had none loft, but what was 
mere rags ; 1 had goats’-hair, but neither knew I how 
to weave it or spin it ; and had I known how, here 
was no tools to work it with. All the remedy that I 
found for this was, that at last I did remember I had, 
among the seamen’s clothes whi<;h were saved out of 
the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin ; and with 
some pieces of these 1 made three small sieves, but 
proper enough for the work ; and thus I made shift for 
some years. How 1 did afterwards, 1 shall show in 
its place. 

The baking part was the next thing to be considered, 
and how 1 should make bread when 1 came to have 
corn ; for, first, 1 had no yeast As to that part, as 
there was no supplying the want, so I did not concern 
myself much about it ; but for an oven I was indeed in 
great pain. At length I found out an experiment for 
that also, which was this : 1 made some earthen vessels 
very broad, but not deep, that is to say, about two 
feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep ; these 
I burned in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid 
them by ; and when I wanted to bake, I made a great 
fire upon my hearth, which I had paved with some 
square tiles, of my own making and burning also ; but 
I should not call them square. 



ADVEOTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 123 


When the firewood was burned pretty much into 
embers, or live coals, 1 drew them forward upon this 
hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there I let them 
lie till the hearth was very hot ; then sweeping away 
all the embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and 
whelming down the earthen pot upon them, drew the 
embers all round the outside of the pot, to keep in 
and add to the heat. And thus, as well as in the best 
oven in the world, I baked my barley -loaves, and 
became, in little time, a mere pastry-cook into the 
bargain ; for 1 made myself several cakes of the rice, 
and puddings ; indeed I made no pies, neither had I 
anything to put into them, supposing I had, except 
the flesh either of fowls or goats. 

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took 
me up most part of the third year of my abode here ; 
for it is to be observed, that in the intervals of these 
things I had my new harvest and husbandry to manage ; 
for I reaped my corn in its season, and carried it home 
as well as I could, and laid it up in the ear, in my 
large baskets, till 1 had time to rub it out, for I had 
no floor to thrash it on, or instrument to thrash it 
with. 

And now, indcfed, my stock of corn increasing, I 
really wanted to build my barns bigger. 1 wanted a 
place to lay it up in, for the increase of the corn now 
yielded me so much, that I had of the barley about 
tvventy bushels, and of the rice as mucli, or more, 
insomuch that now I resolved to begin to use it freely ; 
for my bread had been quite gone a great while ; also, 
I resolved to see what quantity would be sufficient for 
me a whole year, and to sow but once a year. 

Upon the whole, 1 found that the forty bushels of 
barley and rice was much more than 1 could consume 
in a year ; so I resolved to sow just the same quantity 
every year that I sowed the last, in hopes that such a 
quantity would fully provide me with bread, etc. 

All the while these things were doing, you may be 
sure my thoughts run many times upon the prospect 
of land which I had seen from the other side of the 



124 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


island, and I was not without secret wishes that 1 were 
on shore there, fancying the seeing the mainland, and 
in an inhabited country, 1 might find some way or 
other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at last hnd 
some means of escape. 

But all this while 1 made no allowance for the 
dangers of such a condition, and how 1 might fall into 
the hands of savages, and perhaps such as I might have 
reason to think far worse than the lions and tigers of 
Africa ; that if 1 once came into their power, I should 
run a hazard more than a thousand to one of being 
killed, and perhaps of being eaten ; for I had heard 
that the people of the Caribbean coasts were cannibals, 
or man-eaters, and 1 knew by the latitude that I could 
not be far off from that shore. That suppose they were 
not cannibals, yet that they might kill me, as many 
Europeans who had fallen into their hands had been 
served, even when they had been ten or twenty to- 
gether, much more I, that was but one, and could make 
little or no defence ; all these things, I say, which 1 
ought to have considered well of, and did cast up in 
my thoughts afterwards, yet took up none of my appre- 
hensions at first, but my head ran mightily upon the 
thought of getting over to the shore. 

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat 
with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed 
above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa ; but 
this was in vain. Tlien I thought I would go and look 
at our ship’s boat, which, as I have said, was blown up 
upon the shore a great way, in the storm, when we 
were first cast away. She lay almost where she did at 
first, but not quite ; and was turned, by the force of 
the waves and the winds, almost bottom upward, against 
a high ridge of beachy rough sand, but no water about 
her, as before. 

If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have 
launched her into the water, the boat would have done 
well enough, and I might have gone back into the 
Brazils with her easily enough ; but I might have 
foreseen that I could no more turn her and set her 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 125 


uprii^lit upon her bottom^ than 1 could remove the 
island. However, 1 went to the woods, and cut levers 
and rollers, and brought them to the boat, resolved to 
try what I could do ; suggesting to myself that if I 
could but turn her down, 1 might easily repair the 
dan\age she had received, and she would be a very good 
boat, and 1 might go to sea in her very easily. 

1 spared no ])ains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless 
toil, and spent, 1 think, three or four weeks about it. 
At last finding it impossible to heave it up with my 
little strength, I fell to digging away the sand, to 
undermine it, and so to make it fall down, setting 
pieces of wood to thrust and guide it right in the fall. 
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up 
again, or to get under it, much less to move it forward 
towards the water ; so I was forced to give it over. 
And yet, though 1 gave over the hopes of the boat, ray 
desire to venture over for the main increased, rather 
than decreased, as the means for it seemed impossible. 

This at length put mo upon thinking whether it 
was not possible to make myself a canoe, or periagua, 
such as the natives of tliose climates make, even with - 
out tools, or, as 1 might say, without hands, viz., of 
the trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought 
possible, but easy,’ and pleased myself extremely with 
the thoughts of making it, and with my having much 
more convenience for it than any of the negroes or 
Indians ; but not at all considering the particular 
inconveniences which I lay under more than the 
Indians did, viz., want of hands to move it, when it 
was made, into the water, a difficulty much harder for 
me to surmount than all the consequences of want of 
tools could he to them. For what was it to me, that 
when I had chosen a vast tree in the woods, I miglit 
with much trouble cut it down, if, after J might be able 
with my tools to hew and dub the outside into the 
proper shape of a boat, and burn or cut out the inside 
to make it hollow, so to make a boat of it ; if, after all 
this, I must leave it just there where I found it, and 
was uot able to launch it into the water } 



126 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

One would have thought I could not have had the 
least reflection upon my mind of my circumstance 
while I was making this boat, hut I should have 
immediately thought how 1 should get it into the sea ; 
but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage over 
the sea in it, that I never once considered how 1 should 
get it ofi* of the land ; and it was really, in its own 
nature, more easy for me to guide it over forty-five 
miles of sea, than about forty-five fathoms of land, 
where it lay, to set it afloat in the water. 

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool 
that ever man did who had any of his senses awake. I 
pleased myself with the design, without determining 
whether I was ever able to undertake it. Not but 
that the difficulty of launching my boat came often into 
my head ; but 1 put a stop to my own inouiries into it, 
by this foolish answer whic.h I gave myself, ^ Let’s first 
make it ; I’ll warrant I’ll find some way or other to 
get it along lyhen ’tis done.’ 

This was ^ most preposterous method ; but the 
eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. 
I felled a c^edar tree : I question much whether 
Solomon ever had such a one for the building of the 
Temple at Jerusalem. It was five feet ten inches dia- 
meter at the lower part next the stump, and four feet 
eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, 
after which it lessened for awhile, and then parted into 
branches. It was not without infinite labour that 1 
felled this tree. I was twenty days hacking and hewing 
at it at the bottom ; I was fourteen more getting the 
branches and limbs, and the vast spreading head of it 
cut off, which I hacked and hewed through with axe 
and hatchet, and inexpressible labour. After this, it 
cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, 
and to something like the bottom of a boat, that it 
might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me 
near three months more to clear the inside, and work 
it so as to make an exact boat of it. This I did, indeed, 
without fire, by mere mallet and chis<‘l, and by the dint 
of hard labour, till 1 had brought it to he a very hand- 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 127 

some periagua and big enough to have carried six and 
twenty men, and consequently big enough to have 
carried me and all my cargo. 

\^"ben I had gone through this work, I was ex- 
tremely delighted with it. llie boat was really much 
bigger than I ever saw a canoe or periagua, that was 
made of one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke it 
had cost, you may be sure ; and there remained 
nothing but to get it into the water ; and had 1 g(»tten 
it into the water, I make no question but 1 should have 
begun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to 
be performed, that ever was undertaken. 

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me, 
though they cost me infinite labour too. It lay about 
one hundred yards from the water, and not more ; but 
the first inconvenience was, it was uphill towards the 
creek. Well, to take away this discouragement, I 
resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so 
make a declivity. Tliis I began, and it cost me a pro- 
digious deal of pains ; but who grudges pains, that have 
their deliverance in view ? But when this was worked 
through, and this difficulty managed, it was still much 
at one, for I could no more stir the canoe than I could 
the other boat. 

'JTien I measured the distance of ground, and re- 
solved to cut a dock or canal, to bring the water up to 
the canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down 
to the water. Well, I began this work ; and when I 
began to enter into it, and calculate how deep it was 
to be dug, how broad, how the stuff to be thrown out, 
I found that by the number of hands I had, being none 
but my own, it must have been ten or twelve years 
before I should have gone through with it ; for the 
shore lav high, so that at the upper end it must have 
been at least twenty feet deep ; so at length, though 
with great reluctancy, I gave this attempt over also. 

This grieved me heartily ; and now I saw, though too 
late, the folly of beginning a work before we count the 
cost, and before we judge rightly of our own strength 
to go through with it. 



128 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

In the middle of this work 1 finished my fourth year 
in this place^ and kept my anniversary with the same 
devotion, and with as much comfort as ever before ; for, 
by a constant study and serious application of the Word 
of God, and by the assistance of His grace, I gained a 
different knowledge from what I had before. I enter- 
tained different notions of things. 1 looked now upon 
the world as a thing remote, which I had nothing to 
do with, no expeckition from, and, indeed, no desires 
about. In a word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, 
nor was ever like to have ; so I thought it looked, as 
we may i)erhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. , as a place 
I had lived in, but was come out of it; and w^ell might 
1 say, as father Abraham to Dives, ^ Between me and 
thee is a great gulf fixed.' 

In the first place, 1 was removed from all the 
wickedness of the world here. I had neither the lust 
of the flesh, the lust of the eye, or the pride of life. I 
had nothing to covet, for 1 had all that I was now 
capable of enjoying. 1 was lord of the whole manor ; 
or, if I pleased, 1 might call myself king or emperor 
over the whole country which I had possession of. 
There were no rivals : I had no competitor, none to 
dispute sovereignty or command with me. 1 might 
have raised ship-loadings of corn, but 1 had no use for 
it ; so I let as little grow as I thought enough for my 
occasion. I had tortoise or turtles enough, but now 
and then one was as much as I could put to any use. 
I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships. I 
had grapes enough to have made wine, or to have cured 
into raisins, to have loaded that fleet wlien they had 
been built. 

But all I could make use of was all that was valuable. 
I had enough to eat and to supply my wants, and what 
was all the rest to me ? If 1 killed more flesh than I 
could eat, the dog must eat it, or the vermin. If I 
sowed more corn than 1 could eat, it must be spoiled. 
Tlie trees that I cut down were lying to rot on fhe 
ground ; I could make no more use of them than for 
fuel, and that I had no occasion for but to dress my food. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 129 


In a word, the nature and experience of things dic- 
tated to me, upon just reflection, that all the good 
things of this world are no farther good to us than they 
are for our use ; and that whatever we may heap up 
indeed to give others, we enjoy just as much as we can 
use, and no more. The most covetous, griping miser 
in the world would have been cured of the vice of 
covetousness, if he had been in my case ; for I possessed 
infinitely more than 1 knew what to do with. I had 
no room for desire, except it was of things which I had 
hot, and they were but trifles, though indeed of great 
use to me. I had, as I hinted before, a parcel of money, 
as well gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling. 
Alas ! there the nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay ; I had 
no manner of business for it ; and I often thought with 
myself, that 1 would have given a handful of it for a 
gross of tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-mill to grind my 
corn ; nay, I would have given it all for sixpenny- 
worth of turnip and carrot seed out of England, or for 
a handful of peas and beans, and a bottle of ink. As it 
was, I had not the least advantage by it, or benefit from 
it ; but there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy with 
the damp of the cave in the w et season ; and if I had 
had the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the same 
case, and they had been of no manner of value to me 
because of no use, 

I had now brought my state of life to be much easier 
in itself than it was at first, and much easier to my 
mind, as well as to my body. I frequently sat down to 
my meat with thankfulness, and admired the hand of 
God's providence, which had thus spread my table in 
the wilderness, I learned to look more upon the 
bright side of my condition, and less upon the dark 
side, and to consider what I enjoyed, rather than what 
I wanted ; and this gave me sometimes such secret 
comforts, that 1 cannot express them ; and which I 
take notice of here, to put those discontented people 
in mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God 
has given them, because they see and covet something 
that He has not given them. All our discontents about 

K 



130 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

what we want, appeared to me to spring from the want 
of thankfulness for what we have. 

Another reflection was of great use to me, and 
doubtless would he so to any one that should fall into 
such distress as mine was ; and this was, to compare 
my present condition with what 1 at first expected it 
should be ; nay, with what it would certainly have 
been, if the good providence of God had not wonder- 
fully ordered the ship to be cast up nearer to the shore, 
where I not only could come at her, hut could bring 
what I got out of her to the shore, for my relief and 
comfort ; without which I had wanted for tools to 
work, weapons for defence, or gunpowder and shot for 
getting my food. 

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in repre- 
senting to myself, iii the most lively colours, how I 
must have acted if I had got nothing out of the ship. 
How I could not have so much as got any food, except 
fish and turtles ; and that as it was long before J found 
any of them, 1 must have perished first ; that 1 should 
have lived, if 1 had not perished, like a mere savage ; 
that if I had killed a goat or a fowl, by any con- 
trivance, I had no way to flay or open them, or part the 
flesh from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it up ; but 
must gnaw it witli my teeth, and pull it with my claws, 
like a beast. 

These reflections made me very sensible of the good- 
ness of Providence to me, and very thankful for my 
present condition, with all its hardships and mis- 
fortunes ; and this part also 1 cannot but recommend 
to the reflection of those who are apt, in their misery, 
to say. Is any affliction like mine ? Let them consider 
how much worse the cases of some people are, and 
their case might have been, if Providence liad thought 
fit. 

I had another reflection, which assisted me also to 
comfort my mind with hopes ; and this was, comparing 
my present condition with what I had deserved, and had 
therefore reason to expect from the hand of Providence. 
I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the 



ADVENIURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 331 

knowledge and fear of God. 1 had been well instructed 
by father and mother ; neither had they been wanting 
to me in their early endeavours to infuse a religious awe 
of God into my mind^ a sense of my duty, and of what 
the nature and end of my being required of me. But, 
alas ! falling early into the seafaring life, which, of all 
the lives, is the most destitute of the fear of God, though 
His terrors are always before them ; I say, falling early 
into the seafaring life, and into seafaring company, all 
that little sense of religion which 1 had entertained was 
laughed out of me by my messmates ; by a hardened 
despising of dangers, and the views of death, which grew 
habitual to me ; by my long absence from all manner of 
opportunities to converse with anything but what w'as 
like myself, or to hear anything that was good, or 
tended towards it. 

iSo void w'as 1 of everything that was good, or of the 
least sense of wdiat I was, or was to be, that in the 
greiitest deliverances 1 enjoyed, such as my escape from 
Sallee ; my being taken up by the Portuguese master of 
the ship ; my being planted so well in the Brazils ; my 
receiving the cargo from England, and the like ; 1 never 
had ou<je the words, ‘ Thank Crod,’ as much as on my 
mind, or in my mouth ; nor in the greatest distress had 
I so much as a thought to pray to Him, or so much as 
to say, ^ Lord, have mercy upon me ! ’ no, nor to 
mention the name of God, unless it was to swear by and 
blaspheme it. 

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many 
months, as 1 have already observed, on the account of 
my wicked and hardened life past ; and when 1 looked 
about me, and considered what particular providences 
had attended me since my coming into this place, and 
how God had dealt bountifully with me, had not only 
punished me less than my iniquity had deserved, but had 
so plentifully provided for me ; this gave me great hopes 
that my repentance was accepted, and that God had yet 
mercy in store for me. 

With these reflections, I w’orked my mind up, not 
only to resignation to the will of God in the present 



132 adventures OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

disposition of my circumstances, but even to a sincere 
thankfulness for my condition ; and that I, who was 
yet a living man, ought not to complain, seeing 1 had 
not the due punishment of my sins ; that 1 enjoyed so 
many mercies, which I had no reason to have expected 
in that place ; that I ought never more to repine at my 
condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks for 
that daily bread, which nothing but a crowd of wonders 
could have brought ; that 1 ought to consider 1 had 
been fed even by miracle, even as great as that of 
feeding Elijah by ravens ; nay, by a long series of 
miracles ; and that 1 could hardly have named a place 
in the unhabitable part of the world where I could 
have been cast more to my advantage ; a place where, 
as 1 had no society, which was my affliction on one 
hand, so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves 
or tigers, to threaten my life ; no venomous creatures 
or poisonous, which I might feed on to my hurt ; no 
savages to murder and devour me. 

In a word, as my life was a life ot sorrow one way, 
so it was a life of mercy another ; and I wanted 
nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to be able to 
make my sense of God's goodness to me, and care 
over me in this condition, be my daily consolation ; 
and after I did make a just improvement of these 
things, 1 went away, and was no more sad. 

I had now been here so long, that many things which 
I brought on shore for my help were either quite gone, 
or very much wasted, and near spent. My ink, as 1 
observed, had been gone for some time, all but a very 
little, which I eked out with water, a little and a little, 
till it was so pale it scarce left any appearance of black 
upon the paper. As long as it lasted, I made use of 
it to minute down the days of the month on whicli any 
remarkable thing happened to me. And, first, by casting 
up times past, I remember that there was a strange con- 
currence of days in the various providences which befell 
me, and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined 
to observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had 
reason to have looked upon with a great deal of curiosity. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 133 

First, I had observed that the same day that I 
broke away from my father and my friends, and run 
away to Hull, in order to go to sea, the same day 
afterwards I was taken by the Sallee man-of-war, and 
made a slave. 

The same day of the year that I escaped out of the 
wreck of that ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day- 
year afterwards I made my escape from Sallee in the 
boat. 

The same day of the year 1 was born on, viz. , the 
30th of September, that same day 1 had my life so 
miraculously saved twenty-six years after, when 1 w'as 
cast on shore in this island ; so that my wicked life and 
my solitary life began both on a day. 

Tlje next thing to my ink's being wasted, was that of 
my bread ; I mean the biscuit, which 1 brought out of 
the ship. This I had husbanded to the last degree, 
allowing myself but one cake of bread a day for above 
a year ; and yet 1 was quite without bread for near a 
year before 1 got any corn of my own ; and great 
reason 1 had to be thankful that 1 had any at all, the 
getting it being, as has been already observed, next to 
miraculous. 

My clothes begjjn to decay, too, mightily. As to 
linen, 1 had none a good while, except some chequered 
shirts which I found in the chests of the other 
seamen, and which 1 carefully preserved, because 
many times I could bear no other clothes on but a 
shirt ; and it was a very great help to me that I had, 
among all the men’s clothes of the ship, almost three 
dozen of shirts. There were also several tliick watch- 
coats of the seamen’s which were left indeed, but they 
were too hot to wear ; and though it is true that the 
weather was so violent hot that there was no need of 
clothes, yet 1 could not go quite naked, no, though 1 
had been inclined to it, which I was not, nor could 
abide the thoughts of it, though I was all alone. 

The reason why I could not go quite naked was, I 
could not bear the heat of the sun so well when quite 
naked as with some clothes on ; nay, the very heat 



134 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


frequently blistered my skin ; whereas, with a shirt on, 
the air itself made some motion, and whistling under 
that shirt, was twofold cooler than without it. No 
more could I ever bring myself to go out in the heat 
of the sun without a cap or a hat. 'Ilie heat of the sun 
beating with such violence, as it does in that place, 
would give me the headache presently, by darting so 
directly on my head, without a cap or hat on, so that 
I could not bear it ; whereas, if I put on my hat, it 
would presently go away. 

Upon those views, I began to consider about putting 
the few r»ngs I had, which I called clothes, into some 
order. I had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and 
my business was now to try if I could not make 
jackets out of the great watch-coats which I had by 
me, and with such other materials as I had ; so I 
set to work a-tailoriiig, or rather, indeed, a-botching, for 
I made most piteous work of it. However, I made shift 
to make me two or three new waistcoats, which I hoped 
would serve me a great while. As for breeches or 
drawers, I made but a very sorry shift indeed till 
afterward. 

I have mentioned that 1 saved the skins of all 
the creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones, 
and I had hung them up stretched out with sticks 
in the sun, by which means some of them were so 
dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others 
it seems were very useful. The first thing I made 
of these was a great cap for my head, with the hair 
on the outside, to shoot off the rain ; and this I 
performed so well, that after this I made me a suit 
of clothes wholly of these skins, that is to say, a 
waistcoat, and breeches open at knees, and both 
loose, for they were rather wanting to keep me cool 
than to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknow- 
ledge that they were wretchedly made ; for if I was a 
bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor. However, they 
were such as I made very good shift with ; and when 
I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of my 
waistcoat and cap being outermost, I was kept very dry. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 135 


After this I spent a great deal of time and pains 
to make me an umbrella. I was indeed iu great want 
of one^ and had a great mind to make one. 1 had 
seen them made in the Brazils, where they are very 
useful in the great heats which are there ; and 1 felt 
the heats every jot as great here, and greater too, 
being nearer the equinox. Besides, as I was obliged 
to be much abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, 
as well for the rains as the heats. I took a world 
of pains at it, and was a great while l)efore I could 
make anything likely to hold ; nay, after 1 thought I 
had hit the way, 1 spoiled two or three before 1 
made one to my mind ; but at last 1 made one that 
answered indifferently well. '^I'he main difficulty I 
found was to make it to let down. 1 could make it 
to spread ; but if it did not let down too, and draw in, 
it was not portable for me any way hut just over 
my head, which would not do. However, at last, 
as 1 said, I made one to answer, and covered it with 
skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the rains 
like a pent-house, and kept off the sun so effectually, 
that 1 could walk out in the hottest of the weather 
with greater advantage than 1 could before in the 
coolest ; and when I had no need of it, could close 
it, and carry it under my arm. 

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being 
entirely composed by resigning to the will of God, 
and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of His 
providence. This made my life better than sociable ; 
for when I began to regret the want of conversation, 
I would ask myself whether thus conversing mutually 
with my own thoughts and, as 1 hope 1 may say, 
with even God Himself, by ejaculations, was not better 
than the utmost enjoyment of human society in the 
world ? 

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any 
extraordinary thing happened to me ; but I lived on 
in the same course, in the same posture and place, 
just as before. The chief things 1 was employed in, 
Desides my yearly labour of planting my barley and 



13f? ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


rice, and curinj^ my raisins, of both which I always 
kept up just enough to have sufficient stock of one 
year's provisions beforehand — I say, besides this 
yearly labour, and my daily labour of going out with 
my gun, 1 had one labour, to make me a canoe, 
which at last J finished ; so that by digging a canal 
to it of six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought 
it into the creek, almost half a mile. As for the first, 
which was so vastly big, as I made it witliout con- 
sidering beforehand, as J ought to do, how J sliould 
be able to launcli it ; so, never being aide to bring it 
to the water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged 
to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach 
me to be wiser next time. Indeed, the next time, 
though I could not get a tree proper for it, and in a 
place where I could not get the water to it at any 
less distance than, as J have said, near half a mile, 
yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave 
it over ; and though J was near two years about it, 
yet I never grudged my labour, in hopes of having a 
boat to go oft* to sea at last. 

However, though iny little peringua was finished, yet 
the size of it was not at all answ^erablo to the design 
which I had in view when I made the first ; I mean, 
of venturing over to the terra jirma, where it was 
above forty miles broad. Accordingly, the smallness 
of my boat assisted to put an end to that design, and 
now J thought no. more of it. Hut Jis J had a boat, 
my next design was to make a tour round the island ; 
for as I had been on the otlier side in one place, 
crossing, as 1 have already described it, over the land, 
so the discoveries J made in that little journey made 
me very eager to see other parts of the coast ; and now 
1 had a boat, 1 thought of nothing but sailing round 
the island. 

For this purpose, that J might do everything with 
discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little mast to 
my boat, and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces 
of the ship’s sail, which lay in store, and of which J 
had a great stock by me. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 137 


Having fitted my mast and sail^ and tried the boat, 
1 found she would sail very well. Then I made little 
lockers, or boxes, at either end of my boat, to put pro- 
visions, necessaries, and ammunition, etc., into, to be 
kept dry, either from rain or the spray of the sea ; and 
a little long hollow place 1 cut in the inside of the boat, 
where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang down 
over it to keep it dry. 

1 fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like 
a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the 
sun off of me, like an awning ; and thus I every now 
and then took a little voyage u])on the sea, but never 
went far out, nor far from the little creek. Ihit at last, 
being eager to view the circumference of my little 
kingdom, 1 resolved upon my tour ; and accordingly I 
victualled my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen 
of my loaves (cakes I should rather call them) of barley 
bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice, a food 1 eat 
a great deal of, a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and 
powder and shot for killing more, and two large watch- 
coats, of those which, as 1 mentioned before, 1 had 
saved out of the seamen’s chests ; these 1 took, one to 
lie upon, and the other to cover me in the night. 

It was the fith of November, in the sixth year of 
my reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I set 
out on this voyage, and I found it much longer than 
I expected ; for though the island itself was not very 
large, yet w’hen 1 came to the east side of it I found a 
great ledge of rocks lie out above two leagues into the 
sea, some above water, some under it, and beyond that 
a shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more ; so that 
I was obliged to go a grejit way out to sea to double 
the point. 

When. first 1 discovered them, I was going to give 
over my enterprise, and come back again, not knowing 
how far it might oblige me to go out to sea, and, above 
all, doubting how I should get back again, so I came 
to an anchor ; for I had made me a kind of an anchor 
with a piece of a broken grapplmg which 1 got out of 
the ship. 



138 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went 
on shore, climbing up upon a hill, which seemed to 
overlook that point, where T saw the full extent of it, 
and resolved to venture. 

In my viewing the sea from that hill, where I stood, 
I perceived a strong, and indeed a most furious current, 
which run to the east, and even came close to the 
point ; and I took the more notice of it, because I 
saw there might be some danger that when I came 
into it 1 might be carried out to sea by the strength 
of it, and not be able to make the island again. And 
indeed, had I not gotten first up upon this hill, 1 
believe it would have been so ; for there was the same 
current on the other side the island, only that it set off 
at a farther distance ; and 1 saw there was a strong 
eddy under the shore ; so I had nothing to do but to 
get in out of the first current, and I should presently 
be in an eddy. 

I lay here, however, two days ; because the wind, 
blowing pretty fresh at E.S.E., and that being just 
contrary to the said current, made a great breach of 
the sea upon the point ; so that it was not safe for me 
to keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor to go 
too far off’ because of the stream. 

The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated 
overnight, the sea was calm, and I ventured. But I am 
a warning piece again to all rash and ignorant pilots ; 
for no sooner was I come to the point, when even I 
was not my boat's length from the shore, but I found 
myself in a great depth of water, and a current like the 
sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along with it with 
such violence, that all I could do could not keep her 
so much as on the edge of it, but I found it hurried me 
farther and farther out from the eddy, which was on 
my left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, 
and all I could do with my paddlers signified nothing. 
And now I began to give myself over for lost ; for, as 
the current was on both sides the island, I knew in a 
few leagues distance they must join again, and then 
1 was irrecoverably gone. Nor did 1 see any possibility 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 139 


of avoiding it ; so that I had no prospect before me but 
of perishing ; not by the sea, for that was calm enough, 
but of starving for hunger. I had indeed found a 
tortoise on tiie shore, as big almost as 1 could lift, and 
had tossed it into the boat ; and I had a great jar of 
fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen pots ; but 
what was all this to being driven into the vast ocean, 
where, to be sure, there was no shore, no mainland or 
island, for a thousand leagues at least. 

And now 1 saw how easy it was for the providence 
of God to make the most miserable condition mankind 
could be in worse. Now I looked back upon my 
desolate solitary island as the most pleasant place 
in the world, and all the happiness my heart could 
wish for was to be but there again. 1 stretched out 
my hands to it, with eager wishes. ‘ O happy desert ! ’ 
said 1, ‘ I shall never see thee more. O miserable 
creature,* said 1, ^whither am 1 going.^* Then I re- 
proached myself with my unthankful temper, and how 
I had repined at my solitary condition ; and now what 
would I give to be on shore there again. Thus we 
never see the true state of our condition till it is illus- 
trated to us by its contraries ; nor know how to value 
what we enjoy, but by the want of it. It is scarce 
possible to imagine the consternation I was now in, 
being driven from my beloved isLand (for so it appeared 
to me now to be) into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, 
and in the utmost despair of ever recovering it again. 
However, 1 worked hard, till indeed my strength was 
almost exhausted, and kept my boat as much to the 
northward, that is, towards the side of the current 
which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could ; when about 
noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt 
a little breeze of wind in my face, springing up from 
the S. S. E. ITiis cheered my heart a little, and especially 
when, in about half an hour more, it blew a pretty small 
gentle gale. By this time I was gotten at a frightful 
distance from the island ; and had the least cloud or 
hazy weather intervened, I had been undone another 
way too ; for 1 had no compass on board, and should 



140 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


never have known how to have steered towards the 
island if I had but once lost sight of it. But the 
weather continuing clear, I applied myself to get up 
my mast again, and spread my sail, standing away 
to the north as much as possible, to get out of the 
current. 

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat 
began to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of 
the water some alteration of the current was near ; for 
where the current was so strong, the water was foul. 
But perceiving the water clear, 1 found the current 
abate, and presently I found to the east, at about half 
a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks. These 
rocks I found caused the current to part again ; and 
as the main stress of it ran away more southerly, leav- 
ing the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned 
by the repulse of the rocks, and made a strong eddy, 
which ran back again to the north-west with a ^ery 
sharp stream. 

They who know' what it is to have a reprieve brought 
to them ‘Upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves 
just going to murder them, or who have been in such 
like extremities, may guess what my present surprise 
of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into the 
stream of this eddy ; and the wind also freshening, 
how gladly 1 spread my sail to it, running cheerfully 
before the wind, and with a strong tide or eddy under 
foot. 

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back 
again, directly tow'ards the island, but about two leagues 
more to the northward than the current which carried 
me away at first ; so that when I came near the island, 
J found myself open to the northern shore of it, that is 
to say, the other end of the island, opposite to that 
which I went out from. 

AVlien I had made something more than a league of 
way by the help of this current or eddy, I found it 
was spent, and served me no farther. However, I 
found that being between the two great currents, viz., 
that on the south side, which had hurried me away, and 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 141 


that on the north, which lay about a league on the 
other side ; 1 say, between these two, in the wake of 
the island, I found the water at least still, and runnings 
no way ; and having still a breeze of wind fair for me, 
1 kept on steering directly for the island, though not 
making such fresh way as I did before. 

About four o’clock in the evening, being then within 
about a league of the island, 1 found the point of the 
rocks which occasioned this disaster stretching out, as 
is described before, to the southward, and casting olf 
the current more southwardly had, of course, made 
another eddy to the north, and this I found very 
strong, but not directly setting the way my course lay, 
which was due west, but almost full north. However, 
having a fresh gale, I stretched across this eddy, slant- 
ing north-west ; and in about an hour came within about 
a mile of the shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon 
got to land. 

When I was on shore, 1 fell on my knees, and gave 
God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside 
all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat ; and refresh- 
ing myself with such things as J had, I brought my boat 
close to the shore, in a little cove that 1 had spied under 
some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent 
with the labour and fatigue of the voyage. 

J was now at a great loss which way to get home 
with my boat. I had run so much hazard, and knew 
too much the case, to think of attempting it by the 
way I went out ; and what might be at the other side 
(I mean the west side) I knew not, nor had I any 
mind to run any more ventures. So 1 only resolved in 
the morning to make my way westward along the shore, 
and to see if there was no creek where I might lay up 
my frigate in safety, so as to have her again if I wanted 
her. In about three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the 
shore, 1 came to a very good inlet or bay, about a mile 
over, which narrowed till it came to a very little rivulet 
or brook, where I found a very convenient harbour for 
my boat, and where she lay as if she had been in a little 
dock made on purpose for her. Here I put in, and 



142 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

haviu^ stowed my boat very safe, I went on shore to 
look about me, and see where I was. 

1 soon found 1 had but a little passed by the place 
where I had been before, when I travelled on foot to 
that shore ; so taking nothinjif out of my boat but my 
gun and my umbrella, for it was exceedingly hot, I 
began my march. Tlie way was comfortable enough 
after such a voyage as J had been upon, and 1 reached 
my old bower in the evening, where 1 found everything 
standing as 1 left it ; for 1 always kept it in good order, 
being, as I said before, my country house. 

1 got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade 
to rest my limbs, for 1 was very wearj^, and fell asleep. 
But judge you, if you can, that read my story, what a 
surprise 1 must be in, when 1 was waked out of my 
sleep by a voice calling me by my name several times, 

^ Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe, poor Robin (Crusoe! 
Where are you, Robin ('rusoe.'' IVliere are you? 
AVhere have you been ? * 

I was so dead asleep at first, being fiitigued with 
rowing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of the 
day, and with walking tlie latter part, that i did not 
wake thoroughly ; but dozing between sleeping and 
waking, thought 1 dreamed that somebody spoke to me. 
But as the voice continued to rei)eat ^ Robin Crusoe, 
Robin Crusoe,’ at last J began to wake more perfectly, 
and was at first dreadfully frighted, and started up in 
the utmost consternation. But no sooner were my eyes 
open, but 1 saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, 
and immediately knew that it was he that sj)oke to me ; 
for just in such bemoaning language I had used to talk 
to him, and teach him ; and he had learned it so per- 
fectly, that he would sit upon my finger, and lay his 
bill close to my face, and cry, ^ Poor Robin Ousoe ! 
Where are you Where have you been? 1 low come 
you here ?’ and such things as I had taught him. 

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, 
and that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good 
while before I could compose myself. First, I was 
■amazed how the creature got thither, and then, how 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 143 

he should just keep about the place, and nowhere else. 
But as 1 was well satisfied it could be nobody but honest 
Poll, I got it over ; and holding out my hand, and call- 
ing him by his name. Poll, the sociable creature came 
to me, and sat upon my thumb, as he used to do, and 
continued talking to me, ‘ Poor Robin C'rusoe ! and 
how did I come here.^ and where had 1 been.^* just as 
if he had been overjoyed to see me again ; and so 1 
carried him home along with me. 

1 had now had enough of rambling to sea for some 
time, and had enough to do for many days to sit still, 
and refiect upon the danger I had been in. 1 would 
have lieeri very glad tc) have had my boat again on my 
side of the island ; but 1 knew not how it was practic- 
able to get it about. As to the east side of the island, 
which 1 had gone round, 1 knew well enough there 
was no venturing that way ; rny very heart would 
shrink, and my very blood run chill, but to think of 
it. And as to the other side of the island, 1 did not 
know how it might be there ; but supposing the current 
ran with the same force against the shore at the east as 
it passed by it on the other, 1 might run the same risk 
of being driven down the stream, and carried by the 
island, as I had beeji before of being carried away from 
it. So, with these thoughts, J contented myself to be 
^^'ithout any boat, though it had been the j)roduct of so 
many months labour to make it, and of so many more 
to get it unto the sea. 

In this government of my temper 1 remained near a 
year, lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may well 
suppose ; and my thoughts being very much composed 
as to iny condition, and fully comforted in resigning 
myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought 1 
lived reall}’^ very happily in all things, except that of 
society. 

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic 
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying 
myself to, and I believe could, upon occasion, make 
a very good carpenter, especially considering how few 
tools 1 had. Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected 



144 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


perfection in my earthenware, and contrived well enough 
to make them with a wheel, which 1 found infinitely 
easier and better, because I made things round and 
shapable which before were filthy things indeed to 
look oil. But 1 think I was never more vain of my 
own performance, or more joyful for anything I found 
out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe. 
And though it was a very ugly, clumsy thing when it 
was done, and only burnt red, like other earthenware, 
yet as it was hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, 
1 was exceedingly comforted with it; for 1 had been 
always used to smoke, and there were pipes in the 
ship, but 1 forgot them at first, not knowing that there 
was tobacco in the island ; and afterwards, when 1 searched 
the ship again, 1 could not come at any pipes at all. 

In my wicker-ware also I improved much, and made 
abundance of necessary baskets, as well as my invention 
showed me ; though not very handsome, yet they were 
such as were very handy and convenient for my laying 
things up in, or fetching things home in. For example, 
if 1 killed a goat abroad, 1 could hang it up in a tree, 
flay it, and dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it 
home in a basket ; and the like by a turtle ; 1 could 
cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two of the 
flesh, which was enough for me, and bring them home 
in a basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also large 
deep baskets were my receivers for my corn, which 1 
always rubbed out as soon as it was dry, and cured, and 
kept it in great baskets. 

I began now to perceive my powder abated consider- 
ably, and this was a want which it was impossible for 
me to supply, and I began seriously to consider what 1 
must do when 1 should have no more powder ; that is 
to say, how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as 
is observed, in the third year of my being here kept a 
young kid, and bred her up tame, and 1 was in hope of 
getting a he-goat. But I could not by any means bring 
it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat ; and I could 
never find in my heart to kill her, till she died at last 
of mere age. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 145 


But being now in the eleventh year of my residence^ 
and, as 1 have said, my ammunition growing low, I 
set myself to study s^ome art to trap and snare the 
goats, to see whether 1 could not catch some of them 
ali\'e ; and particularly, I wanted a she-goat great with 
young. 

To this purpose, 1 made snares to hamper them, and 
I do believe tliey m ere more than once taken in them ; 
but my tackle was not ftood, for I had no wire, and I 
always found them broken, and my bait devoured. At 
length 1 resolved to try a pitfall ; so I dug several large 
pits ill the earth, in places where I had observed the 
goats used to feed, and over these pits I placed hurdles, 
of my own making too, with a great weight upon them ; 
and several times I put ears of barley and dry rice, 
without setting the trap, and 1 could easily perceive 
that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for 1 
could see the mark of their feet. At length I set 
three traps in one night, and going the next morning, 
I found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and 
gone ; this was very discouraging. However, I altered 
my trap ; and, not to trouble you with particulars, 
going one morning to see my trap, I found in one of 
them a large old lie-goat, and in one of the other three 
kids, a male and two females. 

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him, 
he was so fierce 1 durst not go into the pit to him ; 
that is to say, to go about to bring him away alive, 
which was wdiat 1 wanted. I could have killed him, 
but that was not my business, nor w ould it answ er my 
end ; so I even let liim out, and he ran away, as if he 
had been frighted out of his wits. But I had for- 
got then what 1 learned afterwards, that hunger will 
tame a lion. If I had let him skiy there three or four 
days without food, and then have carried him some 
water to drink, and then a little corn, he would have 
been as tame as one of the kids, for they are mighty 
sagacious, tractable creatures where they are well used. 

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no 
better at that time. ITien I went to the three kids, 



146 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


and taking them one by one^ I tied them with strings 
together, and with some difficulty brought them all 
home. 

It was a good while before they would feed, but 
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and 
they began to be tame. And now I found that if 1 
expected to supply myself with goat-flesh when I had 
no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my 
only way, when perhaps I might have them about my 
house like a flock of sheep. 

But then it presently occurred to me that I must 
keep the tame from tlie wuld, or else they would always 
run wild wlien they grow up ; and tlie only way for 
this was to have some enclosed piece of ground, well 
fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so 
effectually, that those within miglit not break out, or 
those without break in. 

'ill is was a great undertaking for one pair of hands ; 
yet as I saw there was an absolute necessity of doing it, 
my first piece of work was to find out a proper piece 
of ground, viz., where there was likely to be herbage 
for them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to 
keep them from the sun. 

Those who understand such enclosures will think 1 
had very little contrivance when I pitched upon a place 
very proper for all these, being a plain open piece of 
meadow land, or savanna (as our people call it in the 
western colonies), which had two or three little drills 
of fresh water in it, and at one end was very woody ; 
1 say, they will smile at my forecast, when 1 shall tell 
them I began my enclosing of this piecje of ground in 
such a manner, that my hedge or pale must have been 
at least two miles about. Nor was the madness of it so 
great as to the compass, for if it was ten miles about, 1 
was like to have time enough to do it in. But I did 
not consider that my goats would be as wild in so 
much compass as if they had had the whole island, and 
I should have so much room to chase them in, that 1 
should never catch them. 

My hedge was begun and carried on, 1 believe, about 



adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE 147 


fifty yards, when this thoug-ht occurred to me, so J 
presently stopped short, and, for the first beginning, I 
resolved to enclose a piece of about 1.50 yards in length, 
and 100 yards in breadth ; which, as it would maintain 
as many as J should have in any reasonable time, so, 
as my flock increased, 1 could add more ground to my 
enclosure. 

This was acting with some prudence, and 1 vrent to 
work with courage. 1 was about tlirce months hedging 
in the first piece, and, till 1 had done it, I tethered the 
three kids in the best part of it, and used them to feed 
as near me as possible, to make them familiar ; and 
very often I would go and carry them some ears of 
barley, or a handful of rice, and feed them out of my 
hand ; so that after my enclosure was finished, and 
1 let them loose, they would follow me up and down, 
bleating after me for a handful of corn. 

This answered my end, and in about a year and half 
1 had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all ; and 
in two years more I had three and forty, besides several 
that 1 took and killed for my food. And after that 1 
enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed them in, 
with little pens to drive them into, to take them as I 
wanted, and gates out of one piece of ground into 
another. 

But this was not all, for now 1 not only had goat’s 
flesh to feed on w’hen 1 pleased, but milk too, a thing 
which, indeed, in my beginning, I did not so much as 
think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts, 
was really an agreeable surprise. For now I set up 
my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk 
in a day ; and as Nature, who gives supplies of food to 
every creature, dictates even naturally how to make 
use of it, so 1, that had never milked a cow, much less 
a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, very readily and 
handily, though after a great many essays and mis- 
carriages, made me both butter and cheese at last, and 
never wanted it afterwards. 

How mercifully can our great Creator treat His 
creatures, even in those conditions in which they 



148 ADVENl^URES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction ! How can 
He sweeten the bitterest providences, and gfive us cause 
to praise Him for dungeons and prisons ! What a 
table was here spread for me in a wilderness, where 1 
saw nothing at tirst but to perish for hunger ! 

It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen me 
and my little fimily sit down to dinner, lliere was 
my majesty, the prince and lord of the whole island ; 
I had the lives of all my subjects at my absolute com- 
mand. 1 could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it 
away ; and no rebels among all my subjects. 

Then to see how like a king 1 dined, too, all alone, 
attended by my servants. Poll, as if he had been my 
favourite, was the only person permitted to talk to me. 
My dog, who was now grown very old and crazy, and 
had found no species to multiply his kind upon, sai 
always at my right hand, and two cats, one on one 
side the table, and one on the other, expecting now 
and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of special 
favour. 

But these were not the two cats which 1 brought 
on shore at fir^t, for they were both of them dead, and 
had been interred near my habitation, by my own hajid. 
But one of them having multiplied by 1 know not what 
kind of creature, these were two which 1 had preserved 
tame, whereas the rest run wdld in the woods, and 
became indeed troublesome to me at last ; for they 
would often come into my house, and plunder me too, 
till at last 1 was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a 
great many ; at length they left me. With this attend- 
ance, and in this plentiful manner, 1 lived ; neither 
could I be said to want anything but society ; and of 
that in some time after this, 1 was like to have too 
much. 

I was something impatient, as 1 have observed, to 
have the use of my boat, though very loth to run any 
more hazards ; and therefore sometimes 1 sat contriving 
ways to get her about the island, and at other times 1 
sat myself down contented enough without her. But 
I had a strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 149 

the point of the island, where, as I have said, in my 
last ramble, 1 went up the hill to see how the shore 
lay, and how the current set, that I might see what 1 
had to do. This inclination increased upon me every 
day, and at length J resolved to travel thither by land, 
following the edge of the shore. 1 did so ; but had 
any one in England been to meet such a man as I was, 
it must either have frighted them, or raised a great 
deal of laughter ; and as I frequently stood still to look 
at myself, 1 could not but smile at the notion of my 
travelling through Yorkshire, with such an equipage, 
and in su(!h a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch ot 
my figure, as follows. 

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat’s 
skin, with a fiap hanging down behind, as well to keep 
the sun from me, as to shoot the rain off from running 
into my neck ; nothing being so hurtful in these 
climates as the rain upon the flesh, under the clothes. 

I had a short jacket of goat-skin, the skirts coming 
down to about the middle of my thighs ; and a pair of 
open-kneed breeches of tlie same. The breeches were 
made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung 
down such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons, 
it reached to tlue middle of my legs. Stockings and 
shoes I had none, but had made me a pair of some- 
things, I scarce know what to call them, like buskins, 
to flap over my legs, and lace on either side like 
spatterdashes ; but of a most barbarous shape, as 
indeed were all the rest of my clothes. 

I had on a broad belt of goat’s skin dried, which I 
drew together with two thongs of the same, instead of 
buckles ; and in a kind of a frog on either side of this, 
instead of a sword and a dagger, hung a little saw and 
a hatchet, one on one side, one on the other. I had 
another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the same 
manner, which hung over my shoulder ; and at the 
end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both 
made of goat’s skin too ; in one of which hung my 
powder, in the other my shot. At my back I carried 
my basket, on my shoulder my gun, and over my head 



150 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


a great clumsy ugly goat-skin umbrella, but which, ^ 
after all, was the most necessary thing 1 had about me, 
next to my gun. As for my face, the colour of it was 
really not so mulatto-like as one might expect from a 
man not at all careful of it, and living within nineteen 
degrees of the equinox. My beard 1 had once suffered 
to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long ; but 
as I had both scissors and razors sufficient, 1 had cut it 
pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip, whitdi 
1 had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan 
whiskers, such as I had seen worn by some Turks 
whom 1 saw at Sallee ; for the Moors did not wear 
such, though the Turks did. C)f these mustachios or 
whiskers, 1 w'ill not say they were long enough to hang 
my hat upon them, but they were of a length and 
shape monstrous enough, and such as, in Kngland, 
would have passed for frightful. 

But all this is by the bye ; for, as to my figure, I 
had so few to observe me, that it wjis of no manner of 
consequence ; so I say no more to that part. In this 
kind of figure 1 went my new journey, and was out 
five or six days. I travelled first along the sea-shore, 
directly to the place where 1 first brought my boat to 
an anchor, to get up upon the rocks. And having no 
boat now to take care of, 1 went over the land, a 
nearer way, to the same height that I was upon before ; 
when, looking forward to the point of the rocks which 
lay out, and which 1 was obliged to double with my 
boat, as is said above, I was surprised to see the sea all 
smooth and quiet, no rippling, no motion, no current, 
any more there than in other places. 

1 was at a strange loss to understand this, and 
resolved to spend some time in the observing it, to see 
if nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it. 
But I was presently convinced how it was, viz., that 
the tide of ebb setting from the west, and joining with 
the current of waters from some great river on the 
shore, must be the occasion of this current ; and that 
according as the wind blew more forcibly from the 
west, or from the north, this current came near, or 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 151 

went farther from the shore ; for waiting thereabouts 
till evening, I went up to the rock again, and then the 
tide of ebb being made^ I plainly saw the current again 
as before, only that it run farther off, being near half 
a league from the shore ; whereas in my case it set 
close upon the shore, and hurried me and my canoe 
along with it, which, at another time, it would not 
have done. 

lliis observation convinced me that I had nothing 
to do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the 
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the 
island again. But when I began to think of putting it 
in practice, 1 had sucdi a terror upon my spirits at the 
remembrance of the danger 1 had been in, that I could 
not think of it again with any patience ; but, on the 
contrary, 1 took up another resolution, which was more 
safe, though more laborious ; and this was, tliat 1 would 
build, or rather make me another periugua or canoe ; 
and so have one for one side of the island, and one for 
the other. 

You are to understand that now I had, as 1 may 
call it, two plantations in the island ; one, my little 
fortification or tent, with the wall about it, under the 
rock, with the cave behind me, which, by this time, 
1 had enlarged fnto several apartments or caves, one 
within anotlier. One of these, which was the driest 
and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall or 
fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall 
joined to the rock, was all filled up with the large 
earthen pots, of which 1 have given an account, and 
with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would 
hold five or six bushels each, where 1 laid up my stores 
of provision, especially my corn, some in the ear, cut 
off short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with 
my hand. 

As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or 
piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by this 
time grown so big, and spread so very much, that there 
was not the least appearance, to any one’s view, of any 
habitation behind them. 



152 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within 
the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of 
corn ground, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, 
and which duly yielded me their harvest in its season ; 
and whenever I had occasion for more corn, I had more 
land adjoining as ft as that. 

Besides this, J had my country seat, and 1 had now 
a tolerable plantation there also ; for, first, I had my 
little bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair ; that 
is to say, I kept the hedge which circled it in con- 
stantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder standing 
always in the inside. J kept the tree*^, which at first 
were no more than my stakes, but were now grown 
very firm and tall, I kept them always so cut, that 
they might spread and grow thick and wild, and make 
the more agreeable shade, which tliey did effectually to 
my mind. In the middle of this, I had my tent always 
standing, being a piece of a sail spread over poles, set 
up for that purpose, and which never wanted any 
repair or renewing ; and under this J had made me a 
squab or couch, with the skins of the creatures I had 
killed, and with other soft things, and a blanket laid 
on them, such as belonged to our sea-bedding, which I 
had saved, and a great watch-coat to cover me ; and 
here, whenever I had occasion to be absent from my 
chief seat, I took up my country habitation. 

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle, 
that is to say, my goats. And as T had taken an 
inconceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose this 
ground, so I was so uneasy to see it kept entire, lest 
the goats should break through, that I never left off 
till, with infinite labour, I had stuck the outside of 
the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one 
another, that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and 
there was scarce room to put a hand through between 
them ; which afterwards, when those stakes grew, as 
they all did in the next rainy season, made the en- 
closure strong like a wall, indeed, stronger than any 
wall. 

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 153 

I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared 
necessary for my comfortable support ; for I considered 
the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my 
hand would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, 
and cheese for me as long as 1 lived in the place, if it 
were to be forty years ; and that keeping them in my 
reach depended entirely upon my perfecting my en- 
closures to such a degree, that I might be sure of 
keeping them together ; which, by this method, in- 
deed, 1 so eifectually secured, that when these little 
stakes began to grow, I had planted them so very 
thick, I was forced to pull some of them up again. 

In this place also 1 had my grapes growing, which 
I principally depended on for my winter store of 
raisins, and which 1 never failed to preserve very 
carefully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of 
my whole diet. And indeed they were not agreeable 
only, but physical, wholesome, nourishing, and re- 
freshing to the last degree. 

As this was also about half-way between my other 
habitation and the place where I had laid up my boat, 
1 generally stayed and lay here in my way thither ; 
for I used frequently to visit my boat, and 1 kept all 
things about, or belonging to her, in very good order. 
Sometimes I went out in her to divert myself, but no 
more hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever 
above a stone’s cast or two from the shore, I was so 
apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge 
again by the currents or winds, or any other accident 
But now 1 come to a new scene of my life. 

It happened one day, about noon, going towards my 
boat, 1 was exceedingly surprised with the print of a 
man’s naked foot on the shore, which was very plain 
to be seen in the sand. I stood like one thunder- 
struck, or as if 1 had seen an apparition. I listened, 
I looked round me, I could hear nothing, nor see 
anything. 1 went up to a rising ground, to look 
farther. I went up the shore, and down the shore, 
but it was all one ; 1 could see no other impression 
but that one. I w’ent to it again to see if there were 



154 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

any more, and to observe if it might not be my 
fancy ; but there was no room for that, for there was 
exactly the very print of a foot — toes, heel, and every 
part of a foot. How it came thither 1 knew not, nor 
could in the least imagine. But after innumerable 
fluttering thoughts, like a man perfectly confused and 
out of myself, I came home to my fortification, not 
feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but terrified 
to the last degree, looking behind me at every two or 
three steps^ mistaking every bush and tree, and fancy- 
ing every stump at a distance to be a man ; nor is 
it possible to describe how many various shapes 
affrighted imagination represented things to me in, 
how many wild ideas were found every moment in my 
fancy, and what strange, unaccountable whimsies came 
into my thoughts by the way. 

Wlien 1 came to my castle, for so I think I called 
it ever after this, I fled into it like one pursued. 
IVhetlier 1 went over by the ladder, as first contrived, 
or went in at the hole in the rock, which I called a 
door, I cannot remember ; no, nor could 1 remember 
the next morning, for never frighted hare fled to cover, 
or fox to earth, with more terror of mind than 1 to 
this retreat, 

I slept none that night. The farther 1 was from the 
occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehensions 
were ; which is something contrary to the nature of 
such things, and especially to the usual practice of all 
creatures in fear. But 1 was so embarrassed with my 
own frightful ideas of the tiling, that 1 formed nothing 
but dismal imaginations to myself, even though I 
was now a great way off it. Sometimes I fanced it 
must be the devil, and reason joined in with me upon 
this supposition ; for how should any other thing in 
human shape come into the place? Where was the 
vessel that brought them ? W’hat marks was there of 
any other footsteps? And how was it possible a man 
should come there ? But then to think that Satan 
should take human shape upon him in such a place, 
where there could be no manner of occasion for it, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 155 

but to leave the print of his foot behind hiin, and that 
even for no purpose too, for he could not be sure 1 
should see it ; this was an amusement the other way. 
1 considered that the devil might have found out 
abundance of other ways to have terrified me than this 
of the single print of a foot ; that as I lived quite on 
the other side of the island, he would never have been 
so simple to leave a mark in a place where it was ten 
thousand to one whether 1 should ever see it or not, 
and in the sand too, which the first surge of the sea, 
upon a high wind, would have defaced entirely. All 
this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself, and with 
all the notions we usually entertain of the subtilty of 
the devil. 

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue 
me out of all apprehensions of its being the devil ; and 
1 presently concluded then, that it must be some more 
dangerous creature, viz., that it must be some of the 
savages of the mainland over against me, who had 
wandered out to sea in their canoes, and, either driven 
by the currents or by contrary winds, had made the 
island, and had been on shore, but were gone away 
again to sea, being as loth, perhaps, to have stayed in 
this desolate island as 1 would have been to have had 
them. 

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, 
1 was very thankful in my thoughts that I was so 
happy as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that 
they did not see my boat, by wdiich they w'ould have 
concluded that some inhabitants had been in the place, 
and perhaps have searched farther for me. Then terrible 
thoughts racked my imagination about their having 
found my boat, and that there w^ere people here ; and 
that if so, I should certainly have them come again in 
greater numbers, and devour me ; and if it should 
happen so that they should not find me, yet they would 
find my enclosure, destroy all my corn, carry away 
all my flock of tame goats, and 1 should perish at last 
for mere want. 

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope. All 



166 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


that former confidence in God, which was founded 
upon such wonderful experience as 1 had had of His 
goodness, now vanished, as if He that had fed me by 
miracle hitherto could not preserve, by His power, the 

f rovision which He had made for me by His goodness. 

reproached myself with rny easiness, that would not 
sow any more corn one year than would just serve me 
till the next season, as if no accident could intervene 
to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the 
ground. And this 1 thought so just a reproof, that T 
resolved for the future to have two or three years’ corn 
beforehand, so that, whatever might come, I might not 
perish for want of bread. 

How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the 
life of man ! and by what secret differing springs are 
the affections hurried about as differing circumstances 
present ! ’fo-day we love what to-morrow we hate ; 
to-day we seek what to-morrow we shun ; to-day we 
desire what to-morrow we fear ; nay, even tremble at 
the apprehensions of. This was exemplified in me. at 
this time, in the most lively manner imaginable ; for 1, 
whose only affliction was that 1 seemed banished from 
human society, that I was alone, circumscribed by the 
boundless ocean, cut off from mankind, and condemned 
to what J called silent life ; that I was as one whom 
Heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among 
the living, or to appear among the rest of His crea- 
tures ; that to have seen one of my own species would 
have seemed to me a raising me from death to life, and 
the greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next to the 
supreme blessing of salvation, could bestow ; I say, 
that I should now tremble at the very apprehensions pf 
seeing a man, and was ready to sink into the ground at 
but the shadow or silent appearance of a man’s having 
set his foot in the island ! 

Such is the uneven state of human life ; and it 
afforded me a great many curious speculations after- 
wards, when I had a little recovered my first surprise. 
I considered that this was the station of life the in- 
finitely wise and good providence of God had deter- 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 167 

miued for me ; that, as 1 could not foresee what the 
ends of Divine wisdom mig'ht be in all this, so I was 
not to dispute His sovereignty, who, as I was His 
creature, had an undoubted right, by creation, to 
govern and dispose of me absolutely as He thought 
fit, and who, as 1 was a creature who had offended 
Him, had likewise a judicial right to condemn me to 
what punishment He thought fit; and that it was my 
part to submit to bear His indignation, because I had 
sinned against Him. 

I then reliected that God, who was not only 
righteous, but omnipotent, as He had thought fit thus 
to punish and afilict me, so He was able to deliver me ; 
that if He did not think fit to do it, ’twas my un- 
questioned duty to resign myself absolutely and 
entirely to His will ; and, on tlie other hand, it was 
my duty also to hope in Him, pray to Him, and 
quietly to attend the dictates ;ind directions of His 
daily providence. 

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, 
1 may say, weeks and niontlis ; and one particular 
effect of my cogitations on this occasion 1 cannot omit, 
viz., one inorniiig early, lying in my bed, and filled 
with thought about my danger from the appearance of 
savages, I found it discomposed me very much ; upon 
which those words of the Scripture came into my 
thoughts, ^ Call upon Me in the day of trouble, and 1 
will deliver, and thou shalt glorify Me.' 

Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my heart 
was not only comforted, but 1 was guided and en- 
couraged to pray eaj*nestly to God for deliverance. 
When I had done praying, I took up my Bible, and 
opening it to read, the first words that presented to me 
were, ^ Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and 
He shall strengthen thy heart ; wait, I say, on the 
Lord.’ It is impossible to express the comfort this 
gave me. In answer, 1 thankfully laid down the book, 
and was no more sad, at least, not on that occasion. 

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, 
and reffections, it came into my thought one day, that 



158 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

all this might be a mere chimera of my own ; and that 
this foot might be the print of my own foot, when I 
came on shore from my boat. This cheered me up a 
little too, and I began to persuade myself it was all a 
delusion, that it was nothing else but my own foot ; 
and why might not J come that way from the boat, as 
well as I was going that way to the boat ? Again, I 
considered also, that 1 could by no means tell, for 
certain, where I had trod, and where I had not ; and 
that if, at last, this was only the print of my own foot, 
I had played the part of those fools who strive to make 
stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are 
frighted at them more tlian anybody. 

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad 
again, for I had not stirred out of my castJe for three 
days and niglits, so tliat I began to starve for provision; 
for I had little or nothing within doors but some 
barley-cakes and water. Then I knew that my goats 
wanted to be milked too, which usually was my even- 
ing diversion ; and the poor creatures were in great 
pain and inconvenience for want of it ; and, indeed, 
it almost spoiled some of them, and almost dried up 
their milk. 

Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that 
this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet, 
and so I might be truly said to start at my own 
shadow, 1 began to go abroad again, and went to my 
country house to milk my flock. But to see with 
what fear I went forward, how often 1 looked behind 
me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay 
down my basket, and run for my life, it would have 
made any one have thought I was haunted with an 
evil conscience, or that 1 had been lately most terribly 
frighted ; and so, indeed, 1 had. 

However, as I went down thus two or three days, 
and having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, 
and to think there was really nothing in it but my own 
imagination. But I could not persuade myself fully of 
this till I should go down to the shore again, and see 
this print of a foot, and measure it by my own, and see 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 169 


if there was any similitude or fitness, that I might be 
assured it was my own foot. But when I came to the 

I )lace, first, it appeared evidently to me, that when 1 
aid up my boat, 1 could not possibly be on shore any- 
where thereabout ; secondly, when 1 came to measure 
the mark with my own foot, I found my foot not so 
large by a great deal. Both these things filled my 
head with new imaginations, and gave me the vapours 
again to the highest degree ; so that 1 shook with cold, 
like one in an ague ; and 1 went home again, filled 
with the belief that some man or men had been on 
shore there ; or, in short, that the island was inhabited, 
and I might he surprised before I was aware. And 
what course to take for m)*^ security, 1 knew not. 

Oh, what ridiculous resolution men take when pos- 
sessed with fear ! It deprives them of the use of those 
means wliich reason offers for their relief. 'Fhe first 
thing I proposed to myself was to throw down my 
enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the 
woods, that the enemy might not find them, and then 
frequent the island in prospect of the same or the like 
booty ; then to the simple thing of digging up my two 
corn-fields, that they might not find such a grain there, 
and still be i)rompted.to frequent the island ; then to 
demolish my bowser and tent, that they might not see 
any vestiges of habitation, and be jirompted to look 
farther, in order to find out the pers^ons inhabiting. 

lliese were the subject of the first night’s cogitation, 
after 1 was come home again, while the apprehensions 
which had so overrun my mind were fresh upon me, 
and my head was full of vapours, as above. Thus fear 
of danger is ten tliousand times more terrifying than 
danger itself when apparent to the eyes ; and we find 
the burthen of anxiety greater, by much, than the evil 
which we are anxious about ; and, which was worse 
than all this, 1 had not that relief in this trouble from 
the resignation I used to practise, that I hoped to have. 
1 looked, T thought, like Saul, who complained not 
only that the Philistines were upon him, but that God 
had forsaken him ; for I did not now take due ways to 



160 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

compose my mind, by crying to God in my distress, 
and resting upon His providence, as I had done before, 
for my defence and deliverance ; which, if 1 had done, 
I had at least been more cheerfully supported under 
this new surprise, and perhaps carried through it witli 
more resolution. 

This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all 
night, but in the morning 1 fell asleep ; and having, by 
the amusement of my mind, been, as it were, tired, 
and my spirits exhausted, 1 slept very soundly, and 
waked much better composed than I had ever been 
before. And now I began to think sedately ; and 
upon the utmost debate with myself, 1 concluded that 
this island, which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful, 
and no farther from the mainland than as 1 had seen, 
was not so entirely abandoned as 1 might imagine ; 
that although there were no stated inhabitants who lived 
oil the spot, yet that there might sometimes come 
boats olf from the shore, who, either with design, or 
perhaps never but when they were driven by cross 
w’inds, might come to this place ; that 1 had lived here 
fifteen years now, and had not met with the least 
shadow or figure of any people yet ; and that if at any 
time they should be driven here, it was probable they 
went away again as soon as ever they could, seeing 
they luul never thought fit to fix there upon any 
occasion to this time ; that the most 1 could suggest 
any danger from, w^as from any such casual accidental 
landing of straggling people from the main, who, as it 
was likely, if they were driven hither, were here against 
their wills ; so they made no stay here, but went off 
again with all possible speed, seldom staying one night 
oil shore, lest they should not have the help of the 
tides and daylight back again ; and that, therefore, I 
had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat, 
in case J should see any savages land upon the spot. 

Now 1 began sorely to repent that I had dug rny 
cave so large as to bring a door through again, whicfi 
door, as I said, came out beyond where my fortification 
joined to the rock. Upon maturely considering this, 



ADVEOTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 161 

therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification, 
in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from 
my wall, just where J had planted a double row of 
trees about twelve years before, of wliich 1 made 
mention. These trees having' been planted so thick 
before, they wanted but a few piles to be driven 
between them, that they should be thicker and stronger, 
and my wall would be soon finished. 

So that I had now a double wall ; and rny outer 
wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, 
and everything 1 could think of, to make it strong, 
having in it seven little holes, about as big as I might 
put my arm out at. In the inside of this I thickened 
my wall to above ten feet thick, with continual 
bringing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the 
foot of the wall, and walking upon it ; and through the 
seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which 
I took notice that I got seven on shore out of the ship. 
These, I say, 1 planted like my cannon, and fitted them 
into frames, that held them like a carriage, that so 1 
could fire all the seven guns in two minutes* time. 
This wall 1 was many a weary mcnith a-finishing, and 
yet never thought myself safe till it was done. 

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without 
my wall, for a great way every way, as full with stakes, 
or sticks, of the osier-like wood, which 1 found so apt 
to grow, as they could well st;ind ; insomuch, that 1 
believe I might set in near twenty thousand of them, 
leaving a pretty large space between them and my 
wall, that 1 might have room to see an enemy, and 
they might have no shelter from the young trees, if 
they attempted to ajpproach my outer wall. 

Thus in two years^ time I had a thick grove ; and in 
five or six years’ time 1 had a wood before my dwelling, 
growing so monstrous thick and strong, that it was 
indeed perfectly impassable ; and no men, of what kind 
soever, would ever imagine that there was anything 
beyond it, much less a habitation. As for the way 
which I proposed to myself to go in and out, for I left 
no avenue, it was by setting two ladders, one to a part 

M 



102 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

of the rock whicli was low, and then broke in, and left 
room to place another ladder upon that ; so when 
the two ladders were taken down, no man living could 
come down to me without mischievin^ himself ; and if 
they had come down, they were still on the outside of 
my outer wall. 

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could 
su^g;est for my r)wii preservation ; and it will he seen, 
at length, that they were not altogetlier without just 
reason ; though 1 foresaw nothing at tiiat time more 
than my mere fear suggested to me. 

IV^hile this was doing, I was not altogether careless 
of my other affairs ; for 1 had a great concern upon me 
for my little hei’d of goats. They were not only a 
present su])ply to me upon every occasion, and began 
to be su/Iicient to me, without the expense of powder 
and shot, but also without the fatigue of hunting after 
the wild ones ; and I was loth to lose tlie advantage of 
them, and to have them all to nurse up over again. 

'J o this purpose, after long consideration, 1 could 
think of but two ways to preserve them. One was, to 
find another convenient place to dig a cave under 
ground, and to drive them into it every night ; and the 
other was, to enclose two or three little bits of land, 
remote from one another, and as much concealed as 1 
could, where 1 might keep about half a dozen young 
goats in each place ; so that if any disaster happened 
to the flock in general, I might be able to raise them 
again with little trouble and time. And this, though 
it would require a great deal of time and labour, I 
thought was the most rational design. 

Accordingly 1 spent some time to find out the most 
retired parts of the island ; and I pitched upon one 
which was as private indeed as my heart could wish 
for. It was a little damp piece of ground, in the 
middle of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is 
observed, 1 almost lost myself once before, endeavouring 
to come back that way from the eastern part of the 
island. Here 1 found a clear piece of land, near three 
acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was almost an 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 163 

enclosure by Nature ; at least, it did not want near so 
much labour to make it so as the other pieces of 
ground I had worked so hard at. 

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, 
and in less than a month’s time I had so fenced it 
round, that my flock, or herd, call it which you please, 
who were not so wild now as at first they might be sup- 
posed to be, w'ere well enough secured in it. So, witliout 
any farther delay, I removed ten young she-goats and 
two he-goats to this piece. And when they were there, 
1 continued to perfect the fence, till I had made it as 
secure as the other, wdiich, however, 1 did at moie 
leisure, and it took me up more time by a great deal. 

All this labour i w^as at the expense of, purely from 
my apprehensions on the account of the print of a 
man’s foot which I had seen ; for, as yet, I never saw 
any human creature come near the island. And I had 
now lived two years under these uneasinesses, which, 
indeed, made my life much less comfortable than it 
was before, as may well be iinagined by any w^ho 
know what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear 
of man. And this I must observe, wdth grief too, that 
the discomposure of my mind had too great impressions 
also upon the religious part of my thoughts ; for the 
dread and terror of falling into the hands of savages 
and c.annibals lay so upon my spirits, that I seldom 
found myself in a due temper for application to my 
Maker, at least not wdth the sedate calmness and 
resignation of soul which 1 was wont to do. 1 rather 
prayed to God as under great affliction and pressure of 
mind, surrounded with danger, and in expectation 
every night of being murdered and devoured before 
morning ; and 1 must testify from my experience, that 
a temper of ])eace, thankfulness, love, and affection, is 
much more the proper frame for prayer than that of 
terror and discomposure ; and that under the dread of 
mischief impending, a man is no more fit for a com- 
forting performance of the duty of praying to God, 
than he is for repentance on a sick-bed. P’or these 
discomposures aflFect the mind, as the others do the 



164 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


body ; and the discomposure of the mind must 
necessarily be as great a disability as that of the body, 
and much greater, praying to God being properly an 
act of the mind, not of the body. 

But to go on. After 1 bad thus secured one part of 
my little living stock, I went about the whole island, 
searching for another private place to make such 
another deposit ; when, wandering more to the west 
point of the island than I had ever done yet, and 
looking out to sea, 1 thought 1 saw a boat upon the 
sea, at a great distance. 1 had found a prospective 
glass or two in one of the seamen’s chests, which ! 
saved out of our sliip, but 1 had it not about me ; and 
this was so remote, that 1 could not tell what to make 
of it, though I looked at it till my eyes were not able 
to hold to look any longer. Whether it was a boat or 
not, I do not know ; but as I descended from the hill, I 
could see no more of it, so 1 gave it over ; only 1 
resolved to go no more out without a prospective glass 
in my pocket. 

When I was come down the hill to the end of the 
island, where, indeed, 1 had never been before, 1 was 
presently convinced that the seeing the print of a 
man’s foot was not such a strange thing in the island as 
I imagined. And, but that it w^as a special providence 
that 1 was cast upon the side of the island where the 
savages never came, I should easily have known that 
nothing was more freijuent than for the canoes from 
the main, when they happened to be a little too far out 
at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for 
harbour ; likewise, as they often met and fought in 
their canoes, the victors having taken any prisoners 
would bring them over to this shore, where, according 
to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they 
would kill and eat them ; of which hereafter. 

When 1 was come down the hill to the shore, as 1 
said above, being the S.W. point of the island, I was 
perfectly confounded and amazed ; nor is it possible for 
me to express the horror of my mind at seeing the 
shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 165 

of human bodies ; and particularly^ J observed a. place 
where there had been a lire made, and a circle dug in 
the earth, like a cockpit, where it is supposed the 
savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman 
feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures. 

I was so astonislied with the sight of these things, 
that I entertained no notion of any danger to myself 
from it for a long while. All my apprehensions were 
buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman, 
hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of 
human nature, which, though 1 had heard of often, 
yet 1 never had so near a view of before. In short, I 
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle. My 
stomach grew sick, and I mjis just at the point of 
fainting, when Nature discharged the disorder from 
my stomach. And having vomited with an uncommon 
violence, I was a little relieved, but could not bear to 
stay in the place a moment ; so 1 got me up the hill 
again with all the speed 1 could, and walked on 
towards my own habitation. 

When I came a little out of that part of tlie 
island, I stood still a while, as amazed ; and then 
recovering myself, I looked up with the utmost 
affection of my .soul, and with a flood of tears in my 
eyes, gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot in a 
part of the world where I was distinguished from such 
dreadful creatures as these ; and that, though J had 
esteemed my present condition very miserable, had yet 
given me so many comforts in it, that 1 had still more 
to give thanks for than to complain of ; and this above 
all, that I had, even in this miserable condition, been 
comforted with the knowledge of Himself, and the 
ho])e of His blessing ; which w'as a felicity more than 
suflicioiitly equivalent to all tlie misery which I had 
suffered, or could suffer. 

In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my 
castle, and began to be much easier now, as to the 
safety of my circumstances, than ever I was before ; 
for I observed that these wretches never came to this 
island in search of what they could get ; perhaps not 



166 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


seeking^ not wanting, or not expectini]r^ anything here ; 
and }iaving ofteiij no doubt, been up in tlie covered, 
woody part of it, without finding- anything to their 
purpose. I knew I liad been here now almost eighteen 
years, and never saw the least footsteps of human 
creature there before ; and I might be here eighteen 
more as entirely concealed as 1 was now, if I did not 
discover myself to them, which 1 had no manner of 
occasion to do ; it being my only business to keep 
myself entirely concealed where I was, unless I found 
a better sort of creatures than cannibals to make 
myself known to. 

Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage 
wretches that 1 have been speaking of, and of the 
wretched, inhuman custom of their devouring and 
eating one another up, that 1 continued pensive and 
sad, and kept close within my own circle for almost two 
years after this. IVhen I say my own circle, 1 mean 
by it my three plantations, viz. , my castle, my country 
seat, which I called my bow'er, and my enclosure in 
the woods. Nor did 1 look after this for any other 
use than as an enclosure for my goats ; for the aversion 
which Nature gave me to these hellish wretches was 
such, that I was fearful of seeing them as of seeing the 
devil himself. Nor did 1 so much as go to look after 
my bOi'it in all this time, but began rather to think of 
making me another ; for 1 could not think of ever 
making any more attempts to bring the other boat 
round the island to me, lest 1 should meet with some 
of these creatures at sea, in which, if I had happened 
to have fallen into their hands, 1 knew what would 
have been my lot. 

Time, however, and the satisfaction 1 had that I 
was in no danger of being discovered by these people, 
began to wear off my uneasiness about them ; and I 
began to live just in the same composed manner as 
before ; only with this dift’erence, that 1 used more 
caution, and kept my eyes more about me, than 1 did 
before, lest I should happen to be seen by any of them; 
and particularly, I was more cautious of firing my gun, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 167 

lest any of tliein being on the island should happen to 
hear of it. And it was, therefore, a very good pro- 
vidence to me that 1 had furnished myself with a tame 
breed of goats, that I needed not hunt any more about 
the woods, or shoot at them. And if 1 did catch any 
of them after this, it was by traps and snares, as 1 had 
done before ; so that for two years after this I believe 
1 never fired my gun once oil’, though I never went 
out without it; and, which was more, as 1 had saved 
three pistols out of the ship, I always carried them out 
with me, or at least two of them, sticking them in my 
goat-skin belt. Also I furbished up one of the great 
cutlasses that I had out of the ship, and made me a 
belt to put it on also; so thiit I was now a most 
formidable fellow to look at when 1 went abroad, if 
you add to the former descrijition of myself the 
particular of two pistols and a great broadsword hang- 
ing at my side in a belt, but without a scabbard. 

Things going on thus, as 1 have said, for some time, 
I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to 
my former calm, sedate way of living. All these things 
tended to showing me, more and more, how far my 
condition was from being miserable, compared to some 
others ; nay, to many other particulars of life, which 
it might have pleased God to have made my lot. It 
put me upon reflecting how little repining tliere would 
be among mankind at any condition of life, if people 
would rather compare their condition with those that 
are worse, in order to be thankful, than be always 
comparing them with those which are better, to assist 
their murmurings and complainings. 

As in my present condition there were not really 
many things which I wanted, so indeed I thought 
that the frights I had been in about these savage 
wretches, and the concern I had been in for my own 
preservation, had taken off the edge of my invention 
for my own conveniences. And I had dropped a good 
design, which I had once bent my thoughts too much 
upon ; and that was, to try if I could not make some 
of my barley into malt, and then try to brew myself 



168 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

some beer. This was really a whimsical thought, and 
J reproved myself often for the simplicity of it ; for I 
presently saw there would he the want of several things 
necessary to the making my beer, that it would he 
impossible for me to supply. As, first, casks to preserve 
it in, which was a thing that, as I have observed 
already, 1 could never compass ; no, though I spent 
not many days, hut weeks, nay, months, in attempting 
it, but to no purpose. In the next place, 1 had no 
hops to make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no 
copper or kettle to make it boil ; and yet all these 
things notwithstanding, I verily believe, had not these 
things intervened, I mean the frights and terrors I was 
in about the savages, I had undertaken it, and perhaps- 
brought it to pass too ; for 1 seldom gave anything 
over without accomplishing it when J once had it in 
my head enough to begin it. 

But my invention now ran quite another way ; for, 
night and day, I could think of nothing 'out how 1 
might de.stroy some of these monsters in their cruel, 
bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the victim 
they should bring hither to destroy. It would take 
up a larger volume than this whole work is intended 
to be, to set down all the contrivances J hatched, or 
rather brooded upon, in my thought, for the destroying 
these creatures, or at least frigliting them so as to 
prevent their coming hither any more. But all was 
abortive ; nothing could be possible to take effect, 
unless I was to be there to do it myself. And what 
could one man do among them, when pcrlja])s there 
might be twenty or thirty of them together, with 
their darts, or their bow's and arrows, with which 
they could shoot as true to a mark as 1 could with 
my gun ? 

Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place 
where they made their fire, and put in five or six 
pound of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their 
fire, would consequently take fire, and blow uji all that 
was near it. But as, in tlie first place, J should be 
very loth to waste so much powder upon them, my 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 169 

store being now within the quantity of one barrel, 
so neither could I be sure of its going off at any 
certain time, when it might surprise them ; and, at 
best, that it would do little more than just blow the 
fire about their ears, and fright them, but not suffi- 
cient to make them forsake the place. So 1 laid it 
aside, and then proposed that I would place myself 
in ambush in some convenient place, with my three 
guns all double-loaded, and, in the middle of their 
bloody ceremony, let fly at them, when 1 should be 
sure to kill or wound perhaps two or three at every 
shot ; and then falling in u])on them with my three 
pistols and my sword, 1 made no doubt but that if 
there was twenty 1 should kill them nil. This fancy 
pleased my tlioughts for some weeks : and 1 was so 
full of it, that 1 often dreamed of it, and sometimes 
that 1 was just going to let fly at them in my sleep. 

1 went so far with it in my imagination, that 1 
employed myself several days to find out projier places 
to put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for 
them ; and I went frecjuently to the place itself, which 
was now grown more familiar to me ; and especially 
while my mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge, 
and of a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to 
the sword, as J may call it, the horror I had at the 
place, and at the signals of the barliarous wretches 
devouring one another, abated my malice. 

^Vell, at length I found a place in the side of Ihe 
hill, where 1 was siitisfied I miglit securely wait till I 
saw any of their boats coming ; and might then, even 
before they would be ready to come on shore, convey 
myself, unseen, into thickets of trees, in one of w'hich 
there was a hollow large enough to conceal me 
entirely ; and where 1 might sit and observe all their 
bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads, 
when they were so close together, as that it would be 
next to impossible that J should miss my shot, or that 
I could fail wounding three or four of them at the 
first shot. 

In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design; and, 



170 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

accordingly, I prepared two muskets and my ordinary 
fowliiijr-piece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace 
of slugs each, and four or five smaller bullets, about 
the size of pistol -bullets ; and the fowling-piece 1 
loaded with near a handful of swan-shot, of the 
largest size. I also loaded my pistols with about four 
bullets each ; and in this posture, well provided with 
ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepared 
myself for my expedition. 

After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and 
in my imagination put it in practice, 1 continually 
made my tour every morning up to the top of the hill, 
which was from my castle, as 1 called it, about three 
miles, or more, to see if I could observe any boats 
upon the sea coming near the island, or standing over 
towards it. But I began to tire of this hard duty, after 
I had, for two or three months, constantly kept my 
watch, but came always back without any discovery ; 
there having not, in all that time, been the least ap- 
pearance, not only on or near the shore, but not on the 
whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could roach 
every way. 

As long as 1 kept up my daily tour to the hill to 
look out, so long also I kept up the vigour of my 
design , and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a 
suitalde form for so outrageous an execution as the 
killing twenty or thirty naked savages for an offence 
which I had nOt at all entered into a discussion of in 
my thoughts, any farther than my passions were at 
first fired by the horror I conceived at the unnatural 
custom of that people of the country ; who, it seems, 
had been suffered by Providence, in Ilis wise disposition 
of the world, to have no other guide than that of their 
own abominable and vitiated passions ; and conse- 
quently were left, and perhaps had been so for some 
ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such dread- 
ful customs, as nothing but nature entirely abandoned 
of Heaven, and acted by some hellish degeneracy, 
could have run them into. But now when, as I have 
said, I began to be weary of the fruitless excursion 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 171 

which 1 had made so lonj? and so far every morning: in 
vain, so my opinion of the action itself began to alter ; 
and I began, with cooler and calmer thoughts, to 
consider what it was 1 was going to engage in. VVhat 
authority or call I bad to pretend to be judge and 
executioner upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven 
had thought fit, for so many ages, to sufier, unpunished, 
to go on, and to be, as it were, the executioners of His 
judgments one upon another. How far these people 
were ofl’eiiders against me, and what right 1 had to 
engage in the quarrel of that blood which they shed 
promiscuously one upon another. 1 debated this very 
often with myself, thus : How do 1 know what God 
Himself judges in this particular case? It is certain 
these people either do not commit this as a crime ; it 
is not against their own consciences’ reproving, or their 
light reproaching them. Tliey do not know it to be 
an offence, and then commit it in defiance of Divine 
justice, as we do in almost all the sins we commit. 
They think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken 
in war, than we do to kill an ox ; nor to eat human 
flesh, than we do to eat mutton. 

AVhen I had considered this a little, it followed 
necessarily that 1 wqs certainly in the wTong in it; that 
these people were not murderers in the sense that I 
bad before condemned them in my thoughts, any more 
than those Christians were murderers who often put 
to death the prisoners taken in battle ; or more fre- 
quently, upon many occasions, put whole troops of 
men to the sw^ord, without giving quarter, though they 
threw down their arms and submitted. 

In the next place it occurred to me, that albeit the 
usage they thus gave one another was thus brutish and 
inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me; these people 
had done me no injury. That if they attempted me, 
or 1 saw it necessary for my immediate preservation to 
fall upon them, something might be said for it ; but 
that as I was yet out of their power, and they had 
really no knowledge of me, and consequently no design 
upon me, and therefore it could not be just for me to 



172 ADVENJ'URES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

fall upon them, 'llijit this would justify the conduct 
of the Spaniards in all their barbarities practised in 
America, and where they destroyed millions of these 
people ; who, however tliey were idolaters and bar- 
barians, and had several bloody and barbarous rites in 
their customs, such as sacrificing human bodies to 
their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards, very innocent 
people ; and that the rootinpf them out of the country 
is spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and detestation 
by even the Spaniards tliemselves at this time, and 
by all other Christian nations of Europe, as a mere 
butchery, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, 
unjustifiable either to God or man ; and such, as for 
which the very name of a Spaniard is reckoned to be 
frightful and terrible to all people of humanity, or of 
Christian compassion ; as if the kingdom of Spain were 
particularly eminent for the product of a race of men 
who were without principles of tenderness, or the 
common bowels of pity to the miserable, which is 
reckoned to he a mark of generous temper in the 
mind. 

These considerations really put me to a pause, and 
to a kind of a full stop ; and I began, by little and 
little, to be oflF of my design, and to conclude I had 
taken wrong measures in my resolutions to attack 
the savages ; that it was not my business to meddle 
with them, unless they first attacked me ; and this 
it was my business, if possible, to prevent ; but that if 
I were discovered and attacked, then 1 knew my duty. 

On the other hand, J argued with myself that this 
really was the way not to deliver myself, but entirely 
to ruin and destroy myself ; for unless 1 was sure to 
kill every one that not only should be on sliore at 
that time, but that should ever come on shore after- 
wards, if but one of them escaped to tell their country 
people what had happened, they would come over 
again by thousands to revenge the death of their 
fellows, and I should only bring upon myself a certain 
destruction, which, at present, I had no manner of 
occasion for. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSpE 173 

Upon the whole, I concluded that neither in prin- 
ciples nor in policy I ou^ht, one way or other, to 
concern myself in this affair. That my business was, 
by all possible means, to conceal rny&elf from them, 
and not to leave the least signal to them to guess by 
that there were any living creatures upon tlie island ; 
I mean of human shape. 

Religion joined in with this prudential, and I was 
convinced now, many ways, that 1 was perfectly out 
of my duty wlien I was laying all my bloody schemes 
for the destruction of innocent creatures ; 1 mean 
innocent as to me. As to the crimes they were guilty 
of towards one another, I had nothing to do with them, 
riiey were national, and 1 ought to icave them to the 
justice of God, who is the Governor of nations, and 
knows how, by national punishments, to make a just 
retribution for national offences, and to bring public 
judgments upon those wlio offend in a public manner 
by such ways as best pleases Him. 

Tliis appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was 
a greater satisfaction to me than that I liad not been 
suffered to do a thing which I now saw so much reason 
to believe would have been no less a sin than that of 
wilful murder, if. I had commited it. And I gave 
most humble tlianks on my knees to God, that had 
thus delivered me from blood -guiltiness ; beseeching 
Him to grant me the protection of His providence, 
that I might not fall into the hands of the barbarians, 
or that 1 might not lay my liands upon tliem, unless 
1 had a more clear call from Heaven to do it, in defence 
of my own life. 

In this disposition 1 continued for near a year after 
this ; and so far was I from desiring an occasion for 
falling upon these wretches, that in all that time I 
never once went up the hill to see whether there were 
any of them in sigiit, or to know whether any of them 
liad been on shore there or not, that 1 might not be 
tempted to renew any of my contrivances against them, 
or be provoked, by any advantage which might present 
itself, to fall upon tliem. Only this I did, I went and 



174 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

removed my boatj wliicli I had on the other side the 
island^ and carried it down to the east end of the 
whole island, where I ran it into a little cove, which I 
found under some hi^h rocks, and where I knew, by 
reason of the currents, the sava^i^es durst not, at least 
would not come, with their boats, upon any account 
whatsoever. 

With my boat I carried away everything tliat I had 
left there belon^in^ to her, thoui^h not necessary for 
the bare going thither, viz., a nia^t and sail which J 
had made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but 
indeed which could not be called either anchor or 
grappling ; however, it was the best I could make of 
its kind. All these 1 removed, that there might not 
be the least shadow of any discovery, or any appear- 
ance of any boat, or of any human habitation, upon 
the island. 

Besides this, I kept myself, as 1 said, more retired 
than ever, and seldom went from uiy cell, other than 
upon my constant employment, viz., to milk my she- 
goats, and manage my little Hock in the wood, which, 
as it was quite on the other part of the island, was 
quite out of danger ; for certain it is, that these savage 
people, who sometimes haunted this island, never came 
with any thoughts of finding anything here, and con- 
sequently never wandered off from the coast ; and I 
doubt not but they might have been several tim(is on 
shore after my apprehen.sions of them had made me 
cautious, as well as before ; and indeed, 1 looked back 
with some horror upon the thoughts of wdiat my con- 
dition would have been if I had chopped upon them 
and been discovered before that, when, naked and 
unarmed, except with one gun, and that loaded often 
only with small shot, 1 walked everywhere, peeping 
and peeping about the island to see what 1 could get. 
What a surprise should 1 have been in if, when I dis- 
covered the print of a man's foot, I liad, instead of 
that, seen fifteen or twenty savages, and found them 
pursuing me, and by the swiftness of their running, no 
possibility of my escaping them ! 



ADVENTURKS OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 175 

The thou^^hts of this sometimes sunk my very soul 
within me, and distressed my mind so much, that I 
could not soon recover it, to think what 1 should liave 
done, and how 1 not only should not have been able to 
resist them, but even should not have had presence of 
mind enouji^h to do what 1 mi^ht have done, much 
less what now, after so much consideration and pre- 
paration, I mi^ht be able to do. Indeed, after serious 
thinking of these things, 1 should he very melancholy, 
and sometimes it would last a great while ; hut 1 
resolved it, at last, all into thankfulness to that Pro- 
vidence which had delivered me from so many unseen 
dangers, and had kept me from those mischiefs which 
I could no way have been the agent in delivering 
myself from, because I had not the least notion of any 
such thing depending, or the least supposition of it 
being possible. 

'^riiis renewed a contemplation which often had come 
to my thoughts in former time, when first I began to 
see the merciful dispositions of Heaven, in the dangers 
we run through in this life. How wonderfully we are 
delivered when we know nothing of it. How, when 
we are in a quandary, as we call it, a doubt or hesita- 
tion, whether to go this way, or that way, a secret 
hint shall direct us this way, when w^e intended to go 
that way ; nay, when sense, our own inclination, and 
perhaps business, has called to go the other w’ay, yet 
a strange impression upon the mind, from w^e know not 
what springs, and by w^e know not what power, shall 
overrule us to go this w’ay ; and it shall afterwards 
appear, that had we gone that way which we should 
have gone, and even to our imagination ought to have 
gone, we should have been ruined and lost. Upon 
these and many like reflections I afterwards made it a 
certain rule with me, that whenever 1 found those 
secret hints or pressings of my mind to doing, or not 
doing, anything that presented, or to going this way 
or that way, I never failed to obey the secret dictate, 
though I knew no other reason for it than that such a 
pressure, or such a hint, hung upon my mind. I could 



17(5 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

give many examples of the success of this conduct in 
the course of my life, but more especially in the latter 
part of my inhabiting this unhappy island ; besides 
many occasions which it is very likely 1 might have 
taken notice of, if I had seen with the same eyes then 
that 1 saw with now. But ’tis never too late to be wise ; 
and I cannot but advise all considering men, whose 
lives are attended with such extraordinary incidents 
as mine, or even though not so extraordinary, not to 
slight such secret intimations of Providence, let them 
come from what invisible intelligence they will. 'Ihat 
I shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot account for ; 
but certainly they are a proof of the converse of spirits, 
and the secret communicjition between those embodied 
and those unembodied, and such a proof as can never 
be withstood, of which I shall have occasion to give 
some very remarkable instances in the remainder of my 
solitary residence in this dismal place. 

I believe the reader of this will not think strange 
if I confess that these anxieties, these constant dangers 
I lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, put 
an end to all invention, and to all the contrivances that 
1 had laid for my future accommodations and conveni- 
ences. I had the care of my safety more now upon 
my hands than that of my food. 1 cared not to drive 
a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the noise 
I should make should be heard ; much less would 1 fire 
a gun, for the same reason ; and, above all, 1 was 
intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, 
which is visible at a great distance in the day, should 
betray me ; and for this reason I removed that part of 
my business which required fire, such as burning of 
pots and pipes, etc., into my new apartment in the 
woods ; where, after I had been some time, 1 found, to 
my unspeakable consolation, a mere natural cave in 
the eartn, which went in a vast way, and where, 1 dare 
say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of it, would 
be so hardy as to venture in ; nor, indeed, would any 
man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing so 
much as a safe retreat 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 177 


The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a 
great rock, where, by mere accident 1 would say (if 1 
did not see abundant reason to ascribe all such things 
now to Providence), 1 was cutting down some thick 
branches of trees to make charcoal ; and before I go 
on, I must observe the reason of my making this char- 
coal, which was thus. 

I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, 
as 1 said before ; and yet 1 could not live there without 
baking my bread, cooking my meat, etc. So I con- 
trived to burn some wood here, as I had seen done in 
England under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal ; 
and then putting the fire out, 1 preserved the coal to 
carry homo, and perform the other services which fire 
was wanting for at home, without danger of smoke. 

But this is by the bye. While I was cutting down 
»ome wood here, 1 perceived that behind a very thick 
branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there was a 
kind of hollow place. 1 was curious to look into it ; 
and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, 1 
found it was pretty large ; that is to say, sufficient for 
me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another with 
me. But 1 must confess to you 1 made more haste out 
than I did in when, looking farther into the place, 
and which was perfectly dark, 1 saw two broad shining 
eyes of some creature, whether devil or man 1 knew 
not, which twinkled like two stars, the dim light from 
the cave’s mouth shining directly in, and making the 
reflection. 

However, after some pause 1 recovered myself, and 
began to call myself a thousand fools, and tell myself 
that he that was afraid to see the devil was not fit to 
live twenty years in an island all alone, and that 1 
durst to believe there was nothing in this cave that was 
more frightful than myself. Upon this, plucking up 
my courage, I took up a great firebrand, and in I 
rushed again, with the stick flaming in my hand. 1 
had not gone three steps in, but I was almost as much 
frighted as 1 was before; for 1 heard a very loud 
sigh, like that of a man in some pain, and it was 

N 



178 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


followed by a broken noise, as if of words half ex- 
pressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back, 
and was indeed struck with such a surprise, that it put 
me into a cold sweat ; and if 1 had had a hat on my 
head, 1 will not answer for it, that my hair miglit not 
have lifted it off. But still plucking up my spirits as 
well as I could, and encouraging myself a little with 
considering that the power and presence of God w^as 
everywhere, and was able to protect me, upon this 1 
stepped forward again, and by the light of the fire- 
brand, holding it up a little over my head, 1 saw lying 
on the ground a most monstrous, frightful, old he- 
goat, just making his will, as we say, and gasping for 
life ; and dying, indeed, of mere old age. 

1 stirred him a little to see if 1 could get him out, 
and he essayed to get up, but was not able to raise 
himself ; and I thought with myself he might even lie 
there ; for if lie had frighted me so, he would certainly 
fright any of the savages, if any of them should be 
so hardy as to come in there w'hile he had any life in 
him. 

1 was now recovered from my surprise, and began 
to look round me, when 1 found the cave w'as but 
very small ; that is to say, it might be about twelve 
feet over, but in no manner of shape, either round or 
square, no hands having ever been employed in making 
it but those of mere Nature. I observed also that 
there was a place at the farther side of it that went in 
farther, but was so low, that it required me to creep 
upon my hands and knees to go into it, and whither 
1 went 1 knew not ; so having no candle, 1 gave it over 
for some time, but resolved to come again the next 
day, provided with candles and a tinder-box, which I 
had made of the lock of one of the muskets, with some 
wild-fire in the pan. 

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six 
large candles of my own making, for I made very good 
candles now of goat's tallow ; ami going into this low 
place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have 
said, almost ten yards ; which, by the way, I thought 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 179 


was a venture bold enough, considering that I knew 
not how far it might go, nor what was beyond it. 
When I was got through the strait, I found the roof 
rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet. But never 
was such a glorious sight seen in the island, 1 dare say, 
as it was, to look round the sides and roof of this vault 
or cave ; the walls reHected a hundred thousand lights 
to me from my two caudles. Wliat it was in the rock, 
whether diamonds, or any other precious stones, or 
gold , which 1 rather supposed it to be, I knew not. 

The place I was in was a most delightful cavity or 
grotto of its kind, as could be expected, though per- 
fectly dark. Tlie floor was dry and level, and had a 
sort of small loose gravel upon it, so that there was no 
nauseous or venomous creature to be seen ; neither was 
there any damp or wet on the sides or roof. The only 
difficulty in it was the entrance, which, however, as it 
was a place of security, and such a retreat as I wanted, 
I thought that was a convenience ; so that 1 was really 
rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any 
delay, to bring some of those things which 1 was most 
anxious about to this place ; particularly, I resolved to 
bring hither my magazine of powder, and all my spare 
arms, viz., two fowling-pieces, for 1 had three in all, 
and three muskets, for of them 1 had eight in all. So 
I kept at my castle only five, which stood ready- 
mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my outmost 
fence ; and were ready also to take out upon any 
expedition. 

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, 1 
took occasion to open the barrel of powder, which I 
took up out of the sea, and which had been wet ; and 
I found that the water had penetrated about three or 
four inches into the powder on every side, which 
caking, and growing hard, had preserved the inside like 
a kernel in a shell ; so that 1 had near sixty pounds of 
very good powder in the centre of the (;ask. And this 
was an agreeable discovery to me at that time ; so 1 
carried all away thither, never keeping above two or 
three pounds of powder with me in my castle, for fear 



180 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


of a surprise of any kind. I also carried thither all the 
lead I had left for bullets. 

1 fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, 
which were said to live in caves and holes in the 
rocks, where none could come at them ; for 1 persuaded 
myself, while I was here, if five hundred savages were 
to hunt me, they could never find me out ; or, if they 
did, they would not venture to attack me here. 

The old goat, whom I found expiring, died in the 
mouth of the cave the next day after I made this 
discovery ; and 1 found it much easier to dig a great 
hole there, and throw him in and cover him with 
earth, than to drag him out ; so I interred him there, 
to prevent the offence to my nose. 

I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in 
this island ; and was so naturalised to the place, and 
to the manner of living, that could I have but enjoyed 
the certainty that no savages would come to the place 
to disturb me, I could have been content to have 
capitulated for spending the rest of my time there, even 
to the last moment, till 1 had laid me down and died, 
like the old goat in the cave. 1 had also arrived to some 
little diversions and amusements, which made the time 
pass more pleasantly with me a great deal than it did 
before. As, first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted 
before, to speak ; and he did it so familiarly, and 
talked so articulately and plain, that it was very 
pleasant to me ; and he lived with me no less than six 
and twenty years. How long he might live afterwards 
I know not, though I know they have a notion in the 
Brazils that they live a hundred years. Perhaps poor 
Poll may be alive there still, calling after poor Robin 
Crusoe to this day. 1 wish no Englishman the ill 
luck to come there and hear him ; but if he did, he 
would certainly believe it was the devil. My dog was 
a very pleasant and loving companion to me for no less 
than sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere 
old age. As for my cats, they multiplied, as 1 have 
observed, to that degree, that I was obliged to shoot 
several of them at first to keep them from devouring 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 181 

me and all I had ; but at length, when the two old 
ones I brought with me were gone, and after some 
time continually driving them from me, and letting 
them have no provision with me, they all ran wild into 
the woods, except two or three fiivourites, which I 
kept tame, and whose young, when they had any, I 
always drowned ; and these were part of my family. 
Besides these, I always kept tw^o or three household 
kids about me, whom 1 taught to feed out of my hand. 
And 1 had two more parrots, which talked pretty well, 
and would all call ^ Robin (’rusoe,’ but none like my 
first ; nor, indeed, did 1 take the pains with any of 
them that 1 had done with him. I had also several 
tame sea -fowls, w hose names I know not, whom 1 
caught upon the shore, and cut their wings ; and the 
little stakes which 1 had planted before my castle w'all 
being now grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls 
all lived among these low trees, and bred there, which 
was very agreeable to me ; so that, as I said above, I 
began to be very well contented with the life I led, if 
it might but have been secured from the dread of the 
savages. 

But it was otherwise directed ; and it may not be 
amiss for all people who shall meet with my story, to 
make this just observation from it, viz., how fre- 
quently, in the course of our lives, the evil which in 
itself we seek most to shun, and which, when w e are 
fallen into it, is the mo.st dreadful to us, is oftentimes the 
very means or door of our deliverance, by which aloTie 
we can be raised again from the affliction we are fallen 
into. 1 could give many examples of this in the course 
of my unaccountable life ; but in nothing was it more 
particularly remarkable, than in the circumstances of 
my last years of solitary residence in this island. 

It was now the month of December, as I said above, 
in my twenty-third year ; and this, being the southern 
solstice (for winter 1 cannot call it), was the particular 
time of my harvest, and required my being pretty much 
abroad in the fields ; wfflen, going out pretty early in 
the morning, even before it was thorough daylight, I 



182 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


surprised with seeing a light of some fire upon the 
shore, at a distance from me of about two miles, 
towards the end of the island, where I had observed 
some savages had iieen, as before. But not on the 
other side ; but, to my great affliction, it was on my 
side of the island. 

1 was indeed terribly surprised at tlie sight, and 
stepped short within my grove, not daring to go out, 
lest 1 miglit be surprised ; and yet I liad no more 
peace within, from the apprehensions I had that if 
these savages, in rambling over the island, should find 
my corn standing or cut, or any of my works and 
improvements, they would immediately conclude that 
there were people in the place, and would then never 
give over till they had found me out. In this extremity 
I went back directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder 
after me, and made all things without look as wild 
and natural as I could. 

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a 
posture of defence. I loaded all my cannon, as 1 
called them, that is to say, my muskets, which were 
mounted upon my new fortilication, and all my pistols, 
and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp ; not 
forgetting seriously to commend myself to the Divine 
protection, and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me 
out of the hands of the barbarians. And in this 
posture 1 continued about two hours ; but began to 
be mighty impatient for intelligence abroad, for I 
had no spies to send out. 

After sitting a while longer, and musing what J 
should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in 
ignorance any longer ; so setting up my ladder to the 
side of the hill where there was a flat place, as I 
observed before, and tlien pulling the ladder up after 
me, 1 set it up again, and mounted to the top of 
the hill ; and pulling out my perspective-glass, which 
1 had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on my 
belly on the ground, and began to look for the 
place. I presently found there was no less than nine 
naked savages sitting round a small Are they had 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 183 

made^ not to warm them^ for they had no need of 
that, the weather being extreme hot, but, as 1 sup- 
posed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of human 
flesh which they had brought with them, whether 
alive or dead, 1 could not know. 

They had two canoes with them, which they had 
hauled up upon the shore ; and as it was then tide 
of ebb, they seemed to me to wait for the return of 
the flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine 
what confusion this sight put me into, especially 
seeing them come on my side the island, and so 
near me too. But when 1 observed their coming 
must be always with the current of the ebb, I began 
afterwards to be more sedate in my mind, being 
satisfied that I might go abroad with safety all the 
time of the tide of flood, if they were not on shore 
before ; and having made this observation, I went 
abroad about my harvest- work with the more com- 
posure. 

As I expected, so it proved ; for as soon as the tide 
made to the westward, 1 saw them all take boat, and row 
(or paddle, as we call it) all away. I should have 
observed, that for an hour and more before they went 
off, they went to dancing ; and I could easily discern 
their postures and gestures by my glasses. I could 
not perceive, by my nicest observation, but that they 
were stark naked, and had not the least covering upon 
them ; but whether they were men or women, that I 
could not distinguish. 

As soon as 1 saw them shipped and gone, I took two 
guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle, 
and my great sword by my side, without a scabbard, 
and with all the speed I was able to make I went away 
to the hill where 1 had discovered the first appearance 
of all. And as soon as I gat thither, which was not 
less than two hours (for I could not go apace, being so 
loden with arms as 1 was), I perceived there had been 
three canoes more of savages on that place ; and looking 
out farther, I saw they were all at sea together, making 
over for the main. 



184 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when, 
going down to the shore, I could see the marks of 
horror which the dismal work they had been about had 
left behind it, viz., the blood, the bones, and part of 
the flesh of human bodies, eaten and devoured by those 
wretches wdth merriment and sport. 1 was so filled 
with indignation at the sight, that I began now to pre- 
meditate the destruction of the next that 1 saw there, 
let them be who or how many soever. 

It seemed evident to me that the visits which they 
thus made to this island are not very frequent, for it 
was above fifteen months before any more of them 
came on shore there again ; that is to say, I neither 
saw them, or any footsteps or signals of them, in all 
that time ; for, as to the rainy seasons, then they are 
sure not to come abroad, at least not so far. Yet all 
this while 1 lived uncomfortably, by reason of the 
constant apprehensions I was in of their coming upon 
me by surprise ; from whence I observe, that the 
expectation of evil is more bitter than the suffering, 
especially if there is no room to shake off that ex- 
pectation, or those apprehensions. 

During all this time I was in a murdering humour, 
and took up most of my hours, which should have been 
better employed, in contriving how to circumvent and 
fall upon them the very next time I should sec them ; 
especially if they should be divided, as they were the 
last time, into two parties. Nor did I consider at all 
that if I killed one party, suppose ten or a dozen, J 
was still the next day, or week, or mouth, to kill 
another, and so another, even ad infinitum y till I should 
be at length no less a murderer than they were in being 
man-eaters, and perhaps much more so. 

I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety 
of mind, expecting that 1 should, one day or other, fall 
into the hands of these merciless creatures ; and if 1 
did at any time venture abroad, it was not without 
looking round me with the greatest care and caution 
imaginable. And now 1 found, to my great comfort, 
how happy it was that 1 provided for a tame flock or 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 185 

herd of goats ; for I durst not, upon any account, fire 
my gun, especially near that side of the island where 
they usually came, lest I should alarm the savages. 
And if they had fled from me now, 1 was sure to have 
them come hack again, with perhaps two or three 
hundred canoes wdth them, in a few days, and then I 
knew what to expect. 

However, I wore out a year and three months more 
before I ever saw any more of the savages, and then 1 
found them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true 
they might have been there once or twice, but 
either they made no stay, or at least 1 did not hear 
them ; but in the month of May, as near as 1 could 
calculate, and in my four and twentieth year, 1 had 
a very strange encounter with them ; of which in its 
place. 

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or 
sixteen months’ interval, was very great. 1 slept unquiet, 
dreamed always frightful dreams, and often started out 
of my sleep in the night. In the day great troubles 
overwhelmed my mind, and in the night I dreamed often 
of killing the savages, and of the reasons why 1 might 
justify the doing of it. But, to waive all this for a 
while, it was in the. middle of May, on the sixteenth 
day, I think, as well as my poor wooden calendar 
would reckon, for I marked all upon the post still ; 1 
say, it was the sixteenth of May that it blew a very 
great storm of wind all day, with a great deal of 
lightning and thunder, and a very foul night it was 
after it. T know not what was the particular occa- 
sion of it, but as 1 was reading in the Bible, and 
taken up with very serious thoughts about my present 
condition, 1 was surprised with a noise of a gun, as 
I thought, fired at sea. 

This was, to be sure, a surprise of a quite diflFerent 
nature from any I had met with before ; for the 
notions this put into my thoughts were quite of 
another kind. I started up in the greatest haste 
imaginable, and, in a trice, clapped my ladder to the 
middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me ; and 



I8fi ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

mounting it the second time, got to the top of the 
hill the very moment that a flash of fire bid me listen 
for a second gun, which accordingly, in about half 
a minute, I heard ; and, by the sound, knew that it 
was from that part of the sea where I was driven down 
the current in my boat. 

I immediately considered that this must be some ship 
in distress, and that they had some comrade, or some 
other ship in company, and fired these guns for signals 
of distress, and to obtiiin help. 1 had this presence of 
mind, at that minute, as to think that though I could 
not help them, it may be they might help me ; so 1 
brought together all the dry wood I could get at hand, 
and, making a good handsome pile, I set it on fire 
upon the hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely ; 
and though the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt 
fairly out ; so that i was certain, if there was any 
such thing as a ship, they must needs see it, and no 
doubt they did ; for as soon as ever my fire blazed 
up I heard another gun, and after that several others, 
all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night 
long till day broke ; and when it was broad day, and 
the air cleared up, 1 saw something at a great distance 
at sea, full east of the island, whether a sail or a hull 1 
could not distinguish, no, not with my glasses, the 
distance was so great, and the wreath er still something 
hazy also ; at least it was so* out at sea. 

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per- 
ceived that it did not move ; so 1 presently concluded 
that it was a ship at an anchor. And being eager, you 
may be sure, to be satisfied, I topk my gun in my hand 
and ran toward the south side of the island, to the 
rocks where I had formerly been carried away with the 
current ; and getting up there, the weather by this 
time being perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to my 
great sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast away in the 
night upon those concealed rocks which 1 found when 
1 was out in my boat ; and which rocks, as they 
checked the violence of the stream, and made a kind 
of counter-stream or eddy, were the occasion of my 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 187 

recovering from the most desperate^ hopeless condition 
that ever I had been in in all my life. 

Thus, what is one man’s safety is another man’s 
destruction ; for it seems these men, whoever they 
were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being 
wholly under water, had been driven upon them in the 
night, the wind blowing hard at E. and E.N.E. Had 
they seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose they 
did not, they must, as 1 thought, have endeavoured to 
have saved themselves on shore by the help of their 
boat ; but their firing of guns for help, especially when 
they saw, as 1 imagined, my fire, filled me with many 
thoughts. First, I imagined that upon seeing my light, 
they might have put themselves into their boat, and 
have endeavoured to make the shore ; but that the sea 
going very high, they might have been cast away. 
Other times I imagined that they might have lost their 
boat before, as might be the case many ways ; as, 
particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon their ship, 
which many times obliges men to stave, or take in 
pieces their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard 
with their own hands. Other times 1 imagined they 
had some other ship or ships in company, who, upon 
the signals of distress they had made, had taken them 
up and carried them off. Other whiles 1 fancied they 
were all gone off to sea in their boat, and being hurried 
away by the current that 1 had been formerly in, were 
carried out into the great ocean, where there was 
nothing but misery and perishing ; and that, perhaps, 
they might by this time think of starving, and of being 
in a condition to eat one another. 

As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the 
condition I was in, 1 could do no more than look on 
upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them ; 
which had still this good effect on my side, that it gave 
me more and more cause to give thanks to God, who 
had so happily and comfortably provided for me in my 
desolate condition ; and that of two ships’ companies 
who were now cast away upon this part of the world, 
not one life should be spared but mine. I learned here 



188 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


again to observe, that it is very rare that the providence 
of God casts us into any condition of life so low, or 
any misery so great, hut we may see something or other 
to be thankful for, and may see others in worse circum- 
stances than our own. 

Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom 
I could not so much as see room to suppose any of 
them were saved. Nothing could make it rational so 
much as to wish or expect that they did not all perish 
there, except the possibility only of their being taken 
up by another ship in company ; and this was but 
mere possibility indeed, for 1 saw not the least signal 
or appearance of any such thing, 

I cannot explain, by any possible energy of words, 
what a strange longing or hankering of desires I felt 
in my soul upon this sight, breaking out sometimes 
thus : K)h that there had been but one or two, nay, 
or but one soul, saved out of this ship, to have escaped 
to me, that I might but have had one companion, one 
fellow-creature, to have spoken to me, and to have 
conversed with ! ’ In all the time of my solitary life, 
I never felt so earnest, so strong a desire after the 
society of my fellow-creatures?, or so deep a regret at 
the want of it. 

There are some secret moving springs in the affec- 
tions which, when they are set agoing by some object 
in view, or he it some object, though not in view, 
yet rendered present to the mind by the power of 
imagination, that motion carries out the soul by its 
impetuosity to such violent, eager embracings of the 
object, that the absence of it is insupportable. 

Such were the.se earnest wishiiigs that but one man 
had been saved ! ^ Oh that it had been but one ! ' 

1 believe 1 repeated the words, ‘ Oh that it had been 
one ! ’ a thousand times ; and the desires were so 
moved by it, that when I spoke the words my hands 
would clinch together, and my fingers press the palms 
of my hands, that if I had had any soft thing in my 
hand, it would have crushed it involuntarily ; and my 
teeth in my head would strike together, and set against 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 189 

one another so strong, that for some time I could not 
part them again. 

Let the naturalists explain these things, and the 
reason and manner of them. All I can say to them 
is to describe the fact, which was even surprising 
to me when 1 found it, though J knew not from 
what it should proceed. It was doubtless the effect 
of ardent wislies, and of strong ideas formed in my 
mind, realising the comfort which the conversation 
of one of my fellow -Christians would have been to 
me. 

But it was not to be. Either their fate or mine, or 
both, forbid it ; for, till the last year of my being 
on this island, 1 never kiiew whether any were saved 
out of that ship or no ; and had only the affliction, 
some days after, to see the corpse of a drowned boy 
come on shore at the end of the island which was 
next the shipwreck. He had on no clothes but a 
seaman’s waiLstcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, 
and a blue linen shirt ; but nothing to direct me so 
much as to guess what nation he was of. He had 
nothing in his pocket but tivo pieces of eight and a 
tobacco-pipe, 'i’he last was to me of ten times more 
value tliJin the first. 

It was now calmj and I liad a great mind to venture 
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but 1 
might find something on board tliat might be useful 
to me. But that did not altogether press me so much 
as Ihe possibility that there might be yet some living 
creature on i)oard, whose life I might not only save, 
but might, by saving that life, comfort my own to the 
last degree. And this thought clung so to my heart, 
that I could not be quiet night nor day, but I must 
venture out in my boat on board this wreck ; and 
committing the rest to God’s providence, I thought, 
the impression was so strong upon my mind that it 
could not be resisted, that it must come from some 
invisible direction, and that I should be wanting to 
myself if I did not go. 

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back 



190 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

to my castle, prepared everything for ni)^ voyage, took 
a quantity of bread, a great pot for fresh water, a 
compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still 
a great deal of that left), a basket full of raisins. 
And thus, loading myself with everything necessary, 
I went down to my boat, got the water out of her, 
and got her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then 
went home again for more. My second cargo was 
a great bag full of rice, the umbrella to set up over 
my head for shade, another large pot full of fresh 
water, and al)out two dozen of my small loaves, or 
barley-cakes, more than before, with a bottle of goat’s 
milk and a cheese ; all which, witli great labour and 
sweat, I brought to my boat. And praying to God 
to direct my voyage, I put out ; and rowing, or 
paddling, the canoe along the shore, 1 came at last 
to the utmost point of the island on that side, viz., 
N.E. And now I was to launch out into the ocean, 
and either to venture or not to venture. I looked on 
the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides 
of the island at a distance, and which were very 
terrible to me, from the remembrance of the hazard 
1 had been in before, and my heart began to fail 
me ; for 1 foresaw that if 1 was driven into either 
of those currents, I should be carried a vast way out 
to sea, and perhaps out of my reach, or sight of the 
island again ; and that then, as my boat was but small, 
if any little gale of wind should rise, I should be 
inevitably lost. 

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began 
to give over my enterprise ; and having hauled my boat 
into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sate 
me down upon a little rising bit of ground, very pensive 
and anxious, between fear and desire, about my voyage ; 
when, as 1 was musing, I could perceive that the tide 
was turned, and the flood come on ; upon which my 
going was for so many hours impracticable. Upon 
this, presently it occurred to me that I should go up 
to the highest piece of ground 1 could find and observe, 
if I could, how the sets of the tide, or currents, lay 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 191 

when the flood came in, that I might judge whether, 
if I was driven one way out, I might not expect to be 
driven another way home, with the same rapidness of 
the currents. This thought was no sooner in my head 
but I cast my eye upon a little hill, which sufflciently 
overlooked the sea both ways, and from whence 1 had 
a clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and 
which way I was to guide myself in my return. Here 
1 found, that as the current of the ebb set out close by 
the south point of the island, so the current of the flood 
set in close by the shore of the north side ; and that J 
had nothing to do but to keep to the north of the 
island in my return, and I should do well enough. 

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the 
next morning to set out with the first of the tide, and 
reposing myself for the night in the canoe, under the 
great wat(;h-coat I mentioned, I launched out. I made 
first a little out to sea, full north, till 1 began to feel 
the benefit of the current which set eastward, and 
which carried me at a great rate ; and yet did not so 
hurry me as the southern side current had done before, 
and so as to tfike from me all government of the boat ; 
but having a strong steerage with my paddle, I went at 
a great rate directly for the wreck, and in less than two 
hours I came up to it. 

It was a dismal sight to look at. Hie ship, which, 
by its building, was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in 
between two rocks. All the stern and quarter of her 
was beaten to pieces with the sea ; and as her fore- 
castle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great 
violence, her mainmast and foremast were brought by 
the board ; that is to say, broken short off ; but her 
bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared 
firm. When 1 came close to her a dog appeared upon 
her, who, seeing me coming, yelped and cried ; and 
as soon as I called him, jumped into the sea to come to 
me, and I took him into the boat, but found him almost 
dead for hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my 
bread, and he eat it like a ravenous wolf that had been 
starving a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor 



192 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

creature some fresh water, with which, if I would have 
let him, he would have burst himself. 

After this 1 went on board ; but the first sight I 
met with was two men drowned in the cook-room, or 
forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about one 
another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that w hen 
the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke so 
high, and so continually over her, that the men were 
not able to bear it, and were strangled with the constant 
rushing in of the water, as much as if they had been 
under water. Besides the dog, there was nothing left 
in the ship that had life ; nor any goods that 1 could 
see, but what were spoiled by the water. There were 
some casks of li(juor, whether wine or brandy I knew 
not, which lay lower in the hold, and which, the water 
being ebbed out, 1 could see ; but they were too big to 
meddle with. I saw several chests, which I believed 
belonged to some of the seamen ; and I got two of 
them into the boat, without examining what was in 
them. 

Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the fore- 
part broken off, I am persuaded 1 might have made a 
good voyage ; for by what 1 found in these two 
chests, 1 had room to suppose the ship had a great 
deal of wealth on b(»ard ; and if 1 may guess by the 
course she steered, she must have been bound from the 
Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south 
part of America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havana, 
in the Gulf of Mexico, and so perliaps to Spain. 
She had, no doubt, a groat treasure in her, but of 
no use, at that time, to anybody ; and what became 
of the rest of her people, I then knew not. 

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of 
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which 1 got into 
my boat with much difficulty. ITiere were several 
muskets in a cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about 
four pounds of powder in it As for the muskets, I 
had no occasion for them, so I left them, but took the 
powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which 
I wanted extremely ; as also two little brass kettles. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 193 


a copper pot to make chocolate^ and a gridiron. And 
with this cargo, and the dog^ I came away^ the tide 
beginning to make home again ; and the same even- 
ing, about an hour within night, 1 reached the island 
again, weary and fatigued to the last degree. 

I reposed that night in the boat ; and in the morn- 
ing 1 resolved to harbour what 1 had gotten in my 
new cave, not to carry it home to my castle. After 
refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and 
began to examine the particulars. The cask of liquor I 
found to be a kind of rum, but not such as we had at 
the Brazils, and, in a word, not at all good. But when 
I came to open the chests, 1 found several things of 
great use to me. For example, 1 found in one a hne 
case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled 
with cordial waters, fine, and very good ; the bottles 
held about three pints each, and were tipped with 
silver. I found two pots of very good succades, or 
sweetmeats, so fastened also on top, that the salt 
water had not hurt them ; and two more of the same, 
which the water had spoiled. 1 found some very 
good shirts, which were very welcome to me ; and 
about a dozen and half of linen white handkerchiefs 
and coloured neckcloths. The former were also very 
welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe my face 
in a hot day. Besides this, when I came to the till in 
the chest, I found there three great bags of pieces of 
eight, which held out about eleven hundred pieces in all ; 
and in one of them, wrapped up in a paper, six doub- 
loons of gold, and some small bars or wedges of gold, 
1 s^pose they might all weigh near a pound. 

The other chest 1 found had some clothes in it, but 
of little value ; but by the circumstances, it must have 
belonged to the gunner’s mate ; though there was no 
powder in it, but about two pounds of fine glazed 
powder, in three small fiasks, kept, 1 suppose, for 
charging their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon the 
whole, 1 got very little by this voyage that was of any 
use to me ; for as to the money, 1 had no manner of 
occasion for it; ’twas to me as the dirt under my 
0 



194 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


feet ; and I would have given it all for three or four 
pair of English shoes and stockings^ which were 
things I greatly wanted^ but had not had on my feet 
now for many years. I had indeed gotten two pair of 
shoes now, which I took off of the feet of the two 
drowned men whom I saw in the wreck, and 1 found 
two pair more in one of the chests, which were very 
welcome to me ; but they were not like our English 
shoes, either for ease or service, being rather what we 
call pumps than shoes. 1 found in this seaman's chest 
about fifty pieces of eight in royals, but no gold. 1 
suppose this belonged to a poorer man than the other, 
which seemed to belong to some officer. 

Well, however, 1 lugged this money home to my 
cave, and laid it up, as 1 had done that before which 1 
brought from our own ship ; but it w'as great pity, as 
1 said, that the other part of this ship had not come to 
my share, for I am satisfied 1 miglit have loaded my 
canoe several times over with money, which, if I had 
ever escaped to England, would have lain here safe 
enough till I might have come again and fetched it. 

Having now brought all my things on shore, and 
secured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or 

r iddled her along the shore to her old harbour, where 
laid her up, and made the best of my way to my old 
habitation, where I found everything safe and quiet. 
So I began to repose myself, live after my old fashion, 
and take care of my family affairs ; and, for a while, I 
lived easy enough, only that I was more vigilant than 
1 used to be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad 
so much ; and if at any time 1 did stir with any freedom, 
it was always to the east part of the island, where I was 
pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and where 
I could go without so many precautions, and such a 
load of arms and ammunition as 1 always carried with 
me if I went the other way. 

I lived in this condition near two years more ; but 
my unlucky head, that was always to let me know it 
was born to make my body miserable, was all this two 
years filled with projects and designs, how, if it were 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 196 


possible;^! might get away from this island ; for some- 
times 1 was for making another voyage to the wreck, 
though my reason told me that there was nothing left 
there worth the hazard of my voyage ; sometimes for a 
ramble one way, sometimes another ; and 1 believe 
verily, if 1 had had the boat that I went from Sallee in, 
I should have ventured to sea, bound anywhere, I knew 
not whither. 

1 have been, in all my circumstances, a memento to 
those who are touched with the general plague of man- 
kind, whence, for aught I know, one -half of their 
miseries flow ; I mean, that of not being satisfied with 
the station wherein God and Nature has placed them ; 
for not to look back upon my primitive condition, and 
the excellent advice of my fatlier, the opposition to 
which was, as 1 may call it, my original sin, my subse- 
quent mistakes of the same kind had been the means of 
my coming into this miserable condition ; for had that 
Providence, which so happily had seated me at tlie 
Brazils as a planter, blessed me with confined desires, 
and I could have been contented to have gone on 
gradually, 1 might have been, by this time, I mean in 
the time of my being in this island, one of the most 
considerable planters in the Brazils ; nay, I am per- 
suaded that by the improvements 1 had made in that 
little time I lived there, and the increase 1 should 
probably have made if I had stayed, 1 might have 
been worth an hundred thousand moidores. And what 
business had 1 to leave a settled fortune, a well-stocked 
plantation, improving and increasing, to turn super- 
cargo to Guinea to fetch negroes, when patience and 
time would have so increased our stock at home, that 
we could have bought them at our own door from 
those whose business it was to fetch them ; and though 
it had cost us something more, yet the difference of 
that price was by no means worth saving at so great a 
hazard. 

But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, so 
reflection upon the folly of it is as ordinarily the exer- 
cise of more years, or of the dear-bought experience oi 



196 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


time ; and so it was with me now. And yet, so deep 
had the mistake taken root in my temper^ that I could 
not satisfy myself in my station^ but was continually 
poring upon the means and possibility of my escape 
from this place. And that 1 may, with the greater 
pleasure to the reader, bring on the remaining part of 
my story, it may not be improper to give some account 
of my first conceptions bn the subject of this foolish 
scheme for my escape, and how, and upon what founda- 
tion, X acted. 

I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, 
after my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up 
and secured under water, as usual, and my condition 
restored to what it was before. I had more wealth, 
indeed, than I had before, but was not at all the richer ; 
for I had no more use for it than the Indians of Peru 
had before the Spaniards came there. 

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in 
March, the four and twentieth year of my first setting 
foot in this island of solitariness. I was lying in my 
bed, or hammock, awake, very well in health, had no 
pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body, no, nor 
any uneasiness of mind, more than ordinary, but could 
by no means close my eyes, that is, so as to sleep ; 
no, not a wink all night long, otherwise than as 
follows. 

It is as impossible, as needless, to set down the in- 
numerable crowd of thoughts that whirled tlirough that 
great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this 
night" 8 time. I ran over the whole history of my life 
in miniature, or by abridgment, as I may call it, to my 
coming to this island, and also of the part of my life 
since I came to this island. In my refiections upon 
the state of my case since I came on shore on this 
island, I was comparing the happy posture of my 
affairs in the first years of my habitation here com- 
pared to the life of anxiety, fear, and care which J 
had lived ever since I had seen the print of a foot in 
the sand ; not that I did not believe the savages had 
frequented the island even all the while, and might 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON .CRUSOE 197 

have been several hundreds of them at times on shore 
there ; but 1 had never known it^ and was incapable of 
any apprehensions about it. My satisfaction was perfect, 
though my danger was the same ; and 1 was as happy 
in not knowing my danger, as if I had never really been 
exposed to it. This furnished my thoughts with many 
very profitable reflections, and particularly this one : 
how infinitely good that Providence is which has pro- 
vided, in its government of mankind, such narrow 
bounds to his sight and knowledge of things ; and 
though he walks in the midst of so many thousand 
dangers, the sight of which, if discovered to him, 
would distract his mind and sink his spirits, he is kept 
serene and calm, by having the events of things hid 
from his eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers 
which surround him. 

After these thoughts had for some time entertained 
me, I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger I 
had been in for so many years in this very island, and 
how I had walked about in the greatest security, and 
with all possible tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing 
but a brow of a hill, a great tree, or tne casuiQ 
approach of night had been between me and the worst 
kind of destruction, viz., that of falling into the hands 
of cannibals and savages, who would have seized on 
me with the same view as I did of a goat or a turtle, 
and have thought it no more a crime to kill and 
devour me, than I did of a pigeon or a curlew. I 
would unjustly slander myself if 1 should say I was 
not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to whose 
singular protection I acknowledged, with great humility, 
that all these unknown deliverances were due, and 
without which 1 must inevitably have fallen into their 
merciless hands. 

When these thoughts were over, my head was for 
some time taken up in considering the nature of these 
wretched creatures, I mean the savages, and how it 
came to pass in the world that the wise Governor 
of all things should give up any of His creatures to 
such inhumanity ; nay, to something so much below 



108 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

even brutality itself, as to devour its own kind. But 
as this ended in some (at that time fruitless) specula- 
tions, it occurred to me to inquire what part of the 
world these wretches lived in? how far off the coast 
was from whence they came ? what they ventured over 
so far from home for? what kind of boats they had? 
and why I might not order myself and my business so, 
that I might be as able to go over thither, as they were 
to come to me. 

I never so much as troubled myself to consider what 
I should do with myself when I came thither ; what 
would become of me, if I fell into the hands of the 
savages ; or how I should escape from them, if they 
attempted me ; no, nor so much as how it was possible 
for me to reach the coast, and not be attempted by some 
or other of them, without any possibility of delivering 
myself ; and if 1 should not fall into their hands, what 
I should do for provision, or whither I should bend 
my course. None of these thoughts, I sav, so much as 
came in my way ; but my mind was wholly bent upon 
the notion of my passing over in my boat to the main- 
land. 1 looked, back upon my present condition as 
the most miserable that could possibly be ; that I was 
not able to throw myself into anything, but death, that 
could be called worse ; that if I reached the shore of 
the main, I might perhaps meet with relief, or I might 
coast along, as I did on the shore of Africa, till 1 came 
to some inhabited country, and where I might find some 
relief ; and after all, perhaps I might fall in with some 
Christian ship that might take me in ; and if the worse 
came to the worst, 1 could but die, which would put 
an end to all these miseries at once. Pray note, all 
this was the fruit of a disturbed mind, an impatient 
temper, made as it were desperate by the long con- 
tinuance of my troubles, and the disappointments I had 
met in the wreck I had been on board of, and where I 
had been so near the obtaining what I so earnestly 
longed for, viz., somebody to speak to, and to learn 
some knowledge from of the place where I was, and 
of the probable means of my deliverance. I say, ] 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON . CRUSOE 199 

wa8 agitated wholly by these thoughts. All my calm 
of mind, in my resignation to Providence, and waiting 
the issue of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be 
suspended ; and I had, as it were, no power to turn 
my thoughts to anything but to the project of a voyage 
to the main, which came upon me with such force, and 
such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not to be 
resisted. 

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours, 
or more, with such violence that it set my very blood 
into a ferment, and my pulse beat as high as if I had 
been in a fever, merely with the extraordinary fervour 
of my mind about it. Nature, as if 1 had been fatigued 
and exhausted with the very thought of it, threw me 
into a sound sleep. One would have thought I should 
have dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of anything re- 
lating to it ; but I dreamed that as I was going out in 
the morning, as usual, from my castle, 1 saw upon the 
shore two canoes and eleven savages coming to land, 
and that they brought with them another savage, whom 
they were going to kill in order to eat him ; when, on 
a sudden, the savage that they were going to kill jumped 
away, and ran for nis life. And I thought, in my sleep, 
that he came running into my little thick grove before 
my fortification to hide himself ; and that I, seeing him 
alone, and not perceiving that the other sought him 
that way, showed myself to him, and smiling upon him, 
encouraged him ; tnat he kneeled down to me, seeming 
to pray me to assist him ; upon which 1 showed my 
ladder, made him go up, and carried him into my 
cave, and he became my servant ; and that as soon as 
I had gotten this man, I said to myself, ^Now I may 
certainly venture to the mainland ; for this fellow will 
serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and 
whither to go for provisions, and whither not to go for 
fear of being devoured ; what places to venture into, 
and what to escape.’ I waked with this thought, and 
was under such inexpressible impressions of joy at the 
prospect of my escape in my dream, that the disappoint- 
ments which I felt upon coming to myself and finding 



200 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


it was no more than a dream were equally extravagant 
the other way, and threw me into a very great dejection 
of spirit 

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion ; that 
my only way to go about an attempt for an escape 
was, if possible, to get a savage into my possession ; 
and, if possible, it should be one of their prisoners 
whom they had condemned to he eaten, and should 
bring thither to kill. But these thoughts still were 
attended with this difficulty, that it was impossible to 
effect this without attacking a whole caravan of them, 
and killing them all ; and this was not only a very 
desperate attempt, and might miscarry, but, on the 
other hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness of 
it to me ; and my heart trembled at the thoughts of 
shedding so much blood, though it was for my deliver- 
ance. I need not repeat the arguments which occurred 
to me against this, they being the same mentioned 
before. But though J had other reasons to offer now, 
viz. , that those men were enemies to my life, and would 
devour me if they could ; that it was self-preservation, 
in the highest degree, to deliver myself from this death 
of a life, and was acting in my own defence as much as 
if they were actually assaulting me, and the like ; I say, 
though these things argued for it, yet the thoughts of 
shedding human blood for my deliverance were very 
terrible to me, and such as 1 could by no means re- 
concile myself to a great while. 

However, at last, after many secret disputes with 
myself, and after great perplexities about it, for all 
these arguments, one way and another, struggled in 
my head a long time, the eager prevailing desire of 
deliverance at- length mastered all the rest, and I re- 
solved, if possible, to get one of those savages into my 
hands, cost what it would. My next thing then was 
to contrive how to do it, and this indeed was very 
difficult to resolve on. But as 1 could pitch upon no 
probable means for it, so I resolved to put myself 
upon the watch, to see them when they came on shore, 
and leave the rest to the event, taking such measures 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON .CRUSOE 201 

as the opportunity should present, let be what would 
be. 

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself 
upon the scout as often as possible, and indeed so often, 
till I was heartily tired of it ; for it was above a year 
and half that I waited ; and for great part of that 
time went out to the west end, and to the south-west 
corner of the island, almost every day, to see for 
canoes, but none appeared. This was very discourag- 
ing, and began to trouble me much ; though I cannot 
say that it did in this case, as it had done some time 
before that, viz., wear off the edge of my desire to the 
thing. But the longer it seemed to be delayed, the 
more eager I was for it. In a word, J was not at 
first so careful to shun the sight of these savages, and 
avoid being seen by them, as J was now eager to be 
upon them. 

Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay, 
two or three savages, if I had them, so as to make 
them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should 
direct them, and to prevent their being able at any 
time to do me any hurt. It was a great while that I 
pleased myself with this affair ; but nothing still pre- 
sented. All my fancies and schemes came to nothing, 
for no savages came near me for a great while. 

About a year and half after 1 had entertained these 
notions, and by lon^ musing had, as it were, resolved 
them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to 
put them in execution, I was surprised, one morning 
early, with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore 
together on my side the island, and the people who 
belonged to them all landed, and out of my sight. 
The number of them broke all my measures; for seeing 
so many, and knowing that they always came four, or 
six, or sometimes more, in a boat, 1 could not tell 
what to think of it, or how to take my measures to 
attack twenty or thirty men single-handed ; so I lay 
still in my castle, perplexed and discomforted. How- 
ever, I put myself into all the same postures for an 
attack that I had formerly provided, and was just ready 



202 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


for action if anything had presented. Having waited 
a good while, listening to hear if they made any noise, 
at length, being very impatient, 1 set my guns at the 
foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the top of the 
hill, by my two stages, as usual ; standing so, however, 
that my head did not appear above the hill, so that 
they could not perceive me by any means. Here I 
observed, by the help of my perspective -glass, that 
they were no less than thirty in number, that they had 
a lire kindled, that they had had meat dressed. How 
they had cooked it, that I knew not, or what it was ; 
but they were all dancing, in 1 know not how many 
barbarous gestures and figures, their own way, round 
the fire. 

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived by 
my perspective two miserable wretches dragged from 
the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and were 
now brought out for the slaughter. I perceived one 
of them immediately fell, being knocked down, I 
suppose, with a club or wooden sword, for that was 
their way, and two or three others were at work 
immediately, cutting him open for their cookery, 
while the other victim was left standing by himself, 
till they should be ready for him. In that very 
moment this poor wretch seeing himself a little at 
liberty. Nature inspired him with hopes of life, and 
he started away from them, and ran with incredible 
swiftness along the sands directly towards me, I mean 
towards that part of the coast where my habitation 
was. 

I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknowledge) 
when I perceived him to run my way, and especially 
when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by the whole 
body ; and now 1 expected that part of my dream was 
coming to pass, and that he would certainly take 
shelter in my grove ; but I could not depend, by any 
means, upon my dream for the rest of it, viz., that 
the other savages would not pursue him thither, 
and find him there. However, I kept my station, and 
my spirits began to recover when I found that there 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON pRUSOE 203 

was not above three men that followed him ; and still 
more was I encouraged when I found that he out- 
stripped them exceedingly in running, and gained 
ground of them ; so that if he could but hold it for 
half an hour, 1 saw easily he would fairly get away 
from them all. 

There was between them and my castle the creek, 
which I mentioned often at the first part of my story, 
when I landed my cargoes out of the ship ; and this I 
saw plainly he must necessarily swim over, or the poor 
wretch would be taken there. But when the savage 
escaping came thither he made nothing of it, though 
the tide was then up ; but plunging in, swam through 
in about thirty strokes or thereabouts, landed, and ran 
on with exceeding strength and swiftness. WTien the 
three persons came to the creek, 1 found that two of 
them could swim, but the third could not, and that, 
standing on the other side, he looked at the other, but 
went no further, and soon after went softly back, 
which, as it happened, was very well for him in the 
main. 

I observed, that the two who swam were yet more 
than twice as long swimming over the creek as the 
fellow was that fled from them. It came now very 
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, 
that now was my time to get me a servant, and perhaps 
a companion or assistant, and that I was called plainly 
by Providence to save this poor creature’s life. I 
immediately run down the ladders with all possible 
expedition, fetches my two guns, for they were both 
but at the foot of the ladders, as I observed above, and 
getting up again, with the same haste, to the top of the 
hill, I crossed toward the sea, and having a very short 
cut, and all down hill, clapped myself in the way 
between the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud 
to him that fled, who, looking back, was at first 
perhaps as much frighted at me as at them ; but I 
beckoned with my hand to him to come back ; and, in 
the meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that 
followed ; then rushing at once upon the foremost, I 



204 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

knocked him down with the stock of my piece. I was 
loth to hre^ because I would not have the rest hear ; 
though^ at that distance^ it would not have been eiisily 
heard^ and being out of sight of the smoke too^ they 
would not have easily known what to make of it. 
Having knocked this fellow down, the other who 
pursued with him stopped, as if he had been frighted, 
and 1 advanced apace towards him ; but as 1 came 
nearer, 1 perceived presently he had a bow and arrow, 
and was fitting it to shoot at me ; so I was then 
necessitated to shoot at him first, which I did, and 
killed him at the first shot. 

The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though 
he saw both his enemies fallen and killed, as he 
thought, yet was so frighted with the fire and noise 
of my piece, that he stood stock-still, and neither came 
forward or went backward, though he seemed rather 
inclined to fly still, than to come on. 1 hallooed 
again to him, and made signs to come forward, which 
he easily understood, and came a little way, then 
stopped again, and then a little further, and stopped 
again ; and 1 could then perceive that he stood trem- 
bling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and had just 
been to be killed, as his two enemies w^ere. 1 beckoned 
him again to come to me, and gave him all the signs 
of encouragement that 1 could think of ; and he came 
nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve 
steps, in token of acknowledgment for my saving his 
life. 1 smiled at him, and looked pleasantly, and 
beckoned to him to come still nearer. At length he 
came close to me, and then he kneeled down again, 
kissed the ground, and laid his head upon the ground, 
and taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his head. 
This, it seems, was in token of swearing to be my slave 
for ever. I took him up, and made much of him, and 
encouraged him all 1 could. But there was more 
work to do yet; for I perceived the savage whom 1 
knocked down was not killed, but stunned with the 
blow, and began to come to himself ; so 1 pointed to 
him, and showing him the savage, that he was not 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 205 

» 

dead^ upon this he spoke some words to me ; and 
though 1 could not understand them^ yet I thought 
they were pleasant to hear ; for they were the first 
sound of a man s voice that I had heard, my own 
excepted, for above twenty-five years. But there was 
no time for such reflections now. ''Fho savage who was 
knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up 
upon the ground, and I perceived that my savage began 
to be afraid ; but when I saw that, 1 presented my 
other piece at the man, as if I would shoot him. Upon 
this my savage, for so 1 call him now, made a motion 
to me to lend him my sword, which hung naked in a 
belt by my side ; so I did. He no sooner had it but 
he runs to his enemy, and, at one blow, cut oflP his 
head as cleverly, no executioner in Germany could 
have done it sooner or better ; which 1 thought very 
strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never 
saw a sword in his life before, except their own wooden 
swords. However, it seems, as I learned afterwards, 
they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, 
and the wood is so hard, th.it they will cut off heads 
even with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow 
too. When he had done this, he comes laughing to 
me in sign of triumph, and brought me the sword again, 
and with abundance of gestures, which 1 did not under- 
stand, laid it down, with the head of the savage that 
he had killed, just before me. 

But that which astonished him most, was to know 
how 1 had killed the other Indian so far off ; so point- 
ing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to him ; 
so I bade him go, as well as I could. When he came 
to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him, 
turned him first on one side, then on toother, looked 
at the wound the bullet had made, which, it seems, 
was just in his breast, where it had made a hole, and 
no great quantity of blood had followed ; but he had 
bled inwardly, for ho was quite dead. He took up his 
bow and arrows, and came back ; so 1 turned to go away, 
and beckoned to him to follow me, making signs to 
him that more might come after them. 



206 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


Upon this he signed to me that he should bury them 
with sand, that they might not be seen by the rest if 
they followed ; and so 1 made signs again to him to 
do so. He fell to work, and in an instant he had 
scraped a hole in the sand with his hands big enough 
to bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and 
covered him, and did so also by the other. I believe 
he had buried them both in a quarter of an hour. 
Then calling him away, I carried him, not to my 
castle, but quite away to my cave, on the farther part 
of the island ; so 1 did not let my dream come to pass 
in that part, viz., that he came into my grove for 
shelter. 

Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, 
and a draught of water, which I found he was indeed 
in great distress for, by his running ; and having re- 
freshed him, 1 made signs for him to go lie down and 
sleep, pointing to a place where 1 had laid a great 
parcel of rice-straw, and a blanket upon it, which I 
used to sleep upon myself sometimes ; so the poor 
creature laid down, and went to sleep. 

He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well 
made, with straight strong limbs, not too large, tall, 
and well-shaped, and, as 1 reckon, about twenty -six 
years of age. He had a very good countenance, not 
a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to have some- 
thing very manly in his face ; and yet he had all the 
sweetness and softness of an European in his counten- 
ance too, especially when he smiled. His hair was 
long and black, not curled like wool ; his forehead 
very high and large ; and a great vivacity and sparkling 
sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his skin was not 
quite black, but very tawny ; and yet not of an ugly, 
yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and Vir- 
ginians, and other natives of America are, but of a 
•bright kind of a dun olive colour, that had in it some- 
thing very agreeable, though not very easy to describe. 
His face was round and plump ; his nose small, not 
fiat like the negroes ; a very good mouth, thin lips, 
and his fine teeth well set, and white as ivory. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 207 


After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about 
half an hour, he waked a^aiil, and comes out of the 
cave to me, for I had been milking my goats, which 
I had in the enclosure just by. \l^en he espied me, 
he came running to me, laying himself down again 
upon the ground, with all the possible signs of an 
humble, thankful disposition, making a many antic 
gestures to show it. At last he lays his head flat 
upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other 
foot upon his head, as he had done before, and after 
this made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, 
and submission imaginable, to let me know how he 
would serve me as long as he lived. 1 understood 
him in many things, and let him know I was very 
well pleased with him. In a little time I began to 
speak to him, and teach him to speak to me ; and, 
first, 1 made him know his name should be Friday, 
which was the day 1 saved his life. I called him so 
for the memory of the time. I likewise taught him 
to say master, and then let him know that was to be 
my name. I likewise taught him to say Yes and No, 
and to know the meaning of them. 1 gave him some 
milk in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink it 
before him, and sop^ my bread in it ; and I gave him 
a cake of bread to do the like, which he quickly 
complied with, and made signs that it was very good 
for him. 

1 kept there with him all that night ; but as soon as 
it was day, 1 beckoned to him to come with me, and 
let him know I would give him some clothes ; at which 
he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked. As we 
went by the place where he had buried the two men, 
he pointed exactly to the place, and showed me the 
marks that he had made to find them again, making 
signs to me that we should dig them up again, and eat 
them. At this 1 appeared very angry, expressed my 
abhorrence of it, made as if 1 would vomit at the 
thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand to him to 
come away ; which he did immediately, with great 
submission. I then led him up to the top of the hill. 



208 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


to see if his enemies were gone ; and pulling out my 
glasB^ 1 looked^ and saw plainly the place where they 
had been^ but no appearance of them or of their 
canoes ; so that it was plain that they were gone^ and 
had left their two comrades behind them, without any 
search after them. 

But I was not content with this discovery ; but 
having now more courage, and consequently more 
curiosity, I takes my man Friday with me, giving him 
the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his 
back, which I found he could use very dexterously, 
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for 
myself, and away we marched to the place where these 
creatures had been ; for 1 had a mind now to get some 
fuller intelligence of them. When 1 came to the 
place, my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my 
heart sunk within me, at the horror of the spectacle. 
Indeed, it was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to 
me, though Friday made nothing of it The place was 
covered with human bones, the ground dyed with their 
blood, great pieces of flesh left here and there, half- 
eatem, mangled, and scorched ; and, in short, all the 
tokens of the triumphant feast they had been making 
there, after a victory over their enemies. 1 saw three 
skulls, five hands, and the bones of three or four legs 
and feet, and abundance of other parts of the bodies ; 
and Friday, by his signs, made me understand that 
they brought over four prisoners to feast upon ; that 
three of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to 
himself, was the fourth ; that there had been a great 
battle between them and their next king, whose sub-^ 
jects it seems he had been one of, and that they had * 
taken a great number of prisoners ; all which were 
carried to several places by those that had taken them 
in the fight, in order to feast upon them, as was done 
here by these wretches upon those they brought 
hither. 

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, 
and whatever remained, and lay them together on a 
heap, and make a great fire upon it, and burn them all 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 209 

to ashes. 1 found Friday had still a hankering stomach 
after some of the fleshy and was still a cannibal in his 
nature ; but 1 discovered so much abhorrence at the 
very thoughts of it^ and at the least appearance of 
it, that he durst not discover it ; for I nad, by some 
means, let him know that I would kill him if he 
offered it. 

When we had done this we came back to our castle, 
and there I fell to work for my man Friday ; and, first 
of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which 1 had 
out of the poor gunner’s chest I mentioned, and which 
1 found in the wreck ; and which, with a little altera- 
tion, fitted him very well. Then I made him a jerkin 
of goat’s-skin, as well as my skill would allow, and I 
was now grown a tolerable good tailor ; and I gave him 
a cap, which I had made of a hare-skin, very convenient 
and fashionable enough ; and thus he was clothed for the 
present tolerably well, and was mighty well pleased to 
see himself almost as well clothed as his master. It is 
true he went awkwardly in these things at first ; wear- 
ing the drawers was very awkward to him, and the 
sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders, and the 
inside of his arms ; but a little easing them where he 
complained they hurt him, and using himself to them, 
at length he took to them very well. 

The next day after 1 came home to my hutch with 
him, 1 began to consider where I should lodge him. 
And that I might do well for him, and yet be perfectly 
easy myself, I made a little tent for him in liie vacant 

f >lace between my two fortifications, in the inside of the 
ast and in the outside of the first ; and as there was a 
door or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal 
framed door-case, and a door to it of boards, and set 
it up in the passage, a little within the entrance ; and 
causing the door to open on the inside, I barred it up 
in the night, taking in my ladders too ; so that Friday 
could no way come at me in the inside of my innermost 
wall without making so much noise in getting over, that 
it must needs waken me ; for my first wall had now a 
complete roof over it of long poles, covering all my 

p 



210 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


tent^ and leaning up to tlve side of the hill^ which was 
again laid cross with smaller sticks instead of laths^ 
and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice- 
straw, which was strong, like reeds ; and at the hole 
or place which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I 
had placed a kind of trap-door, which, if it had been 
attempted on the outside, would not have opened at 
all, but would have fallen down, and made a great 
noise ; and as to weapons, I took them all into my side 
every night. 

But 1 needed none of all this precaution ; for never 
man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than 
Friday was to me ; without passions, sullenuess, or 
designs, perfectly obliged and engaged ; his very affec- 
tions were tied to me, like those of a child to a father ; 
and I dare say he would have sacrificed his life for the 
saving mine, upon any occasion whatsoever. The many 
testimonies he gave me of this put it out of doubt, and 
soon convinced me that I needed to use no precautions 
as to my safety on his account. 

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that 
with wonder, that however it had pleased God, in His 
providence, and in the government of the works of His 
hands, to take from so great a part of the world of 
His creatures the best uses to which their faculties and 
the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that He has 
bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, 
the same affections, the same sentiments of kindness 
and obligation, the same passions and resentments of 
wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, 
and all the capacities of doing good, and receiving good, 
that He has given to us ; and that when He pleases to 
offer to them occasions of exerting these, they are as 
ready, nay, more ready, to apply them to the right 
uses for which they were bestowed than we are. And 
this made me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, 
as the several occasions presented, how mean a use we 
make of all these, even though we have these powers 
enlightened by the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit 
of God, and by the knowledge of His Word added iiO 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON .CRUSOE 211 


our understandings ; and why it has pleased God to hide 
the like savings knowledge from so many millions of 
souls; who, if 1 might judge by this poor savage, would 
make a much better use of it than we did. 

From hence, I sometimes was led too far to invade 
the sovereignty of Providence, and as it were arraign 
the justice of so arbitrary a disposition of things, that 
should hide that light from some, and reveal it to 
others, and yet expect a like duty from both. But 
1 shut it up, and checked my thoughts with this con- 
clusion : first, that we did not know by what light and 
law these should be condemned ; but that as God was 
necessarily, and, by the nature of His being, infinitely 
holy and just, so it could not be but that if these crea- 
tures were all sentenced to absence from Himself, it 
was on account of sinning against that light, which, as 
the Scripture says, was a law to themselves, and by 
such rules as their consciences would acknowledge to 
be just, though the foundation was not discovered to 
us ; and, second, that still, as we are all the clay in 
the hand of the potter, no vessel could say to Him, 
‘ Why hast Thou formed me thus } * 

But to return to my new companion. I was greatly 
delighted with hiirt, and made it my business to teach 
him everything that was proper to make him useful, 
handy, and helpful ; but especially to make him speak, 
and understand me when 1 spake. And he was the 
aptest scholar that ever was ; and particularly was so 
merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased when he 
could but understand me, or make me understand him, 
that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. And 
now my life began to be so easy, that I began to say 
to myself, that could I but have been safe from more 
savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from the 
place while 1 lived. 

After I had been two or three days returned to my 
castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday off from 
his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of a 
cannibaFs stomach, 1 ought to let him taste other flesh ; 
so I took him out with me one morning to the woods. 



212 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


I went, indeed, intending; to kill a kid out of my own 
flock, and bring him home and dress it ; but as 1 was 
going, 1 saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and 
two young kids sitting by her. I catched hold of 
Friday. ^ Hold,’ says I, ' stand still,’ and made signs 
to him not to stir. Immediately I presented my piece, 
shot and killed one of the kids. The poor creature, 
who had, at a distance indeed, seen me kill the savage, 
his enemy, but did not know, or could imagine, how it 
was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled and shook, 
and looked so amazed, that I thought he would have 
sunk down. He did not see the kid I had shot at, or 
perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat to 
feel if he was not wounded ; and, as I found presently, 
thought I was resolved to kill him ; for he came and 
kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees, said a 
great many things I did not understand ; but I could 
easily see that the jneaning was to pray me not to kill 
him. 

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do 
him no harm ; and taking him up by the hand, laughed 
at him, and pointing to the kid which I had killed, 
beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he did ; 
and while he was wondering, and looking to see how 
the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again ; and 
by and by 1 saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon a 
tree, within shot ; so, to let Friday understand a little 
what I would do, I called him to me again, pointing 
at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thought 
it had been a hawk ; I say, pointing to the parrot, and 
to my gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let 
him see I would make it fall, I made him understand 
that I would shoot and kill that bird. Accordingly I 
fired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw the 
parrot fall. He stood like one frighted again, notwith- 
standing all I had said to him ; and I found he was the 
more amazed, because he did not see me put an 3 rthiug 
into the gun, but thought that there must be some 
wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing, 
able to kill man, beast, bird, or anything near or mr 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON^ CRUSOE 213 

of ; and the astonishment thjis created in him was such 
as could not wear of for a lon^ time ; and 1 believe^ ii 
1 would have let him, he would have worshipped me 
and my gun. As for tile gun itself, he would not so 
much as touch it for several days after ; but would 
speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, 
when he was by himself ; which, as I afterwards learned 
of him, was to desire it not to kill him. 

Well, after his astonishment was a little over at 
this, 1 pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had 
shot, which he did, but stayed some time ; for the 
parrot, not being quite dead, was fluttered a good way 
off from the place where she fell. However, he found 
her, took her up, and brought her to me ; and as 1 had 
perceived his ignorance about the gun before, 1 took 
this advantage to charge the guii again, and not let 
him see me do it, that I might be ready for any other 
mark that might present. But notliing more offered 
at that time ; so 1 brought home the kid, and the same 
evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as 1 
could ; and having a pot for that purpose, 1 boiled or 
stewed some of the flesh, and made some very good 
broth ; and after I had begun to eat some, I gave some 
to my man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it 
very well ; but that which was strangest to him, was 
to see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that 
the salt was not good to eat, and putting a little into 
his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would 
spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh 
water after it. On the other hand, I took some meat 
in my mouth without salt, and 1 pretended to spit 
and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at 
the ssilt. But it would not do ; he would never care 
for salt with his meat or in his broth ; at least, not a 
great while, and then but a very little. 

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, 1 
waa resolved to feast him the next day with roasting a 
piece of the kid. This 1 did by hanging it before &e 
fire in a string, as 1 had seen many people do in Eng- 
land, setting two poles up, one on each side of the fire, 



214 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

t 

and one cross on the top^ and tying the string to the 
cross stick, letting the fheat turn continually. This 
Friday admired very much. But when he came to 
taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how 
well he liked it, that I could not but understand him ; 
and at last he told me he would never eat man’s flesh 
Any more, which 1 was very glad to hear. 

rhe next day 1 set him to work to beating some 
corn out, and sifting it in the manner 1 used to do, 
as I observed before ; and he soon understood how to 
do it as well as I, especially after he had seen what 
the meaning of it was, and ^at it was to make bread 
of ; for after that 1 let him see me make my bread, 
and bake it too ; and in a little time Friday was able 
to do all the work for me, as well as I could do it 
myself. 

I began now to consider that, having two mouths 
to feed instead of one, 1 must provide more ground 
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn 
than 1 used to do ; so I marked out a larger piece 
of land, and began the fence in the same manner as 
before, in which Friday not only worked very wil- 
lingly and very hard, but did it very cheerfully ; and 
I told him what it was for ; that it was for corn to 
make more bread, because he was now with me, and 
that I might have enough for him and myself too. 
He appeared very sensible of that part, and let me 
know that he thought 1 had much more labour upon 
me on his account, than 1 had for myself ; and that 
he would work the harder for me, if I would tell him 
what to do. 

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led 
in this place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and 
understand the names of almost everything 1 had 
occasion to call for, and of every place 1 had to send 
him to, and talk a great deal to me ; so that, in 
short, I began now to have some use for my tongue 
again, which, indeed, 1 had very little occasion for 
before, that is to say, about speech. Besides the plea- 
sure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 215 

• 

in the fellow himself. His simple, unfeigned honesty 
appeared to me more and • more every day, and I 
began really to love the creature ; and, on his side, 
I believe he loved me more than it was possible for 
him ever to love anything before. 

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering 
inclination to his own country again ; and having 
learned him English so well that he could answer me 
almost any questions, I asked him whether the nation 
that he belonged to never conquered in battle.^ At 
which he smiled, and said, ^Yes, yes, we always fight 
tlie better* ; that is, he meant, always get the better in 
fight; and so we began the following discourse : ^You 
always fight the better,* said I. ‘ How came you to be 
taken prisoner then, Friday.^* 

Friday. My nation beat much for all that. 

Master. How beat.^ If your nation beat them, how 
came you to be taken } 

Friday. They more many than my nation in the 
place where me was ; they take one, two, three, and 
me. My nation overheat them in the yonder place, 
where me no was; there my nation take one, two, 
great thousand. 

Master. But why did not your side recover you from 
the hands of your' enemies then.^ 

Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and 
make go in the canoe ; my nation have no canoe that 
time. 

Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation 
do with the men they take ? Do they carry then^ away 
and eat them, as these did ? 

Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too ; eat all up. 

Master. Wliere do they carry them ? 

Friday. Go to other place, where they think. 

Master. Do they come hither 

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither ; come other else 
place. 

Master. Have you been here with them } 

Friday. Yes, I been here. (Points to the N. W. side 
of the island, which, it seems, was their side.) 



216 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


By this I understood that my man Friday had 
formerly been among the savages who used to come 
on shore on the farther part of the island^ on the same 
man-eating occasions that he was now brought for; 
and, some time after, when I took the courage to carry 
him to that side, being the same 1 formerly mentioned, 
he presently knew the place, and told me he was there 
once when they eat up twenty men, two women, and 
one child. He could not tell twenty in English, but 
he numbered them by laying so many stones on a row, 
and pointing to me to tell them over. 

I have told this passage, because it introduces what 
follows ; that after 1 had had this discourse with him, 
I asked him how far it was from our island to the 
shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost. He 
told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost ; 
but that, after a little way out to the sea, there was a 
current and a wind, always one way in the morning, 
the other in the afternoon. 

This 1 understood to be no more than the sets of 
the tide, as going out or coming in ; but I afterwards 
understood it was occasioned by the great draught and 
reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or 
the gulf of which river, as 1 found afterwards, our 
island lay ; and this land which I perceived to the W. 
and N.VT. was the great island Trinidad, on the north 
point of the mouth of the river. 1 asked Friday a 
thousand questions about the country, the inhabitants, 
the sea, the coast, and what nation were near. He 
told me all he knew, with the greatest openness 
imaginable. 1 asked him the names of the several 
nations of his sort of people, but cou}d get no other 
name than Caribs ; from whence 1 easily understood 
that these were the Caribbees, which our maps place on 
the part of America which reaches from the mouth of 
the river Oroonoko to Guiana, and onwards to St 
Martha. He told me that up a great way beyond 
the moon, that was, beyond the setting of the moon, 
which must be W. from their country, there dwelt 
white-bearded men, like me, and pointed to my great 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 217 

ivhiskers^ which I mentioned before ; and that they had 
killed much mans^ that was ^is word ; by all which 1 
understood he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in 
America had been spread over the whole countries, 
and was remembered by all the nations from father to 
son. 

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come 
from this island and get among those white men. He 
told me, ‘ Yes, yes, 1 might go in two canoe.* 1 could 
not understand what he meant, or make him describe 
to me what he meant by two canoe ; till at last, with 
great difficulty, I found he meant it must be in a large 
great boat, as big as two canoes. 

ITiis part of Friday’s discourse began to relish with 
me very well ; and from this time 1 entertained some 
hopes that, one time or other, I might find an oppor- 
tunity to make my escape from this place, and that this 
poor savage might be a means to help me to do it. 

During the long time that Friday had now been 
with me, and that he began to speak to me, and under- 
stand me, 1 was not wanting to lay a foundation of 
religious knowledge in his mind ; particularly I asked 
him one time. Who made him ? I'he poor creature did 
not understand me at all, but thought 1 had asked who 
was his father, ilut 1 took it by another handle, and 
asked him who made the sea, the ground we walked on, 
and the hills and woods ? He t<nd me it was one old 
Benamuckee, that lived beyond all. He could describe 
nothing of this great person, but that he was very old, 
much older, he said, than the sea or the land, than the 
moon or the stars. 1 asked him then, if this old person 
had made all t];iings, why did not all things worship 
him.J^ He looked very grave, and with a perfect look 
of innocence said, ^All things do say O to him.* I 
asked him if the people who die in his country went 
away anywhere? He said, *Yes, they all went to 
Benamuckee. * Then 1 asked him whether these they 
eat up went thither too? He said ^ Yes.* 

From these things 1 began to instruct him in the 
knowledge of the true God. 1 told him that the great 



218 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

c 

Maker of all things lived up there^ pointing up towards 
heaven ; that He governs the world by the same power 
and providence by which He had made it ; that He was 
omnipotent, could do everything for us, give everything 
to us, take everything from us ; and thus, by degrees, 
I opened his eyes. He listened with great attention, 
and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ 
being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making 
our prayers to God, and His being able to hear us, even 
into heaven. He told me one day that if our God 
could hear us up beyond the sun, He must needs be a 
greater God than their Benamuckee, who lived but a 
little way off, and yet could not hear till they went up 
to the great mountains where he dwelt to speak to him. 
I asked him if he ever went thither to speak to him ? 
He said. No ; they never went that were young men ; 
none went thither but the old men, whom he called their 
Oowokakee, that is, as I made him explain it to me, 
their religious, or clergy ; and that they went to say 
O (so he called saying prayers), and then came back, 
and told them what Benamuckee said. By this I 
observed that there is priestcraft even amongst the 
most blinded, ignorant pagans in the world ; and the 
policy of making a secret religion in order to preserve 
the veneration of the people to the clergy is not only to 
be found in the Roman, but perhaps among all religions 
in the world, even among tne most brutish and bar> 
barous savages. 

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man 
Friday, and told him that the pretence of their old men 
going up to the mountains to say O to their god Bena> 
muckee was a cheat, and their brir^ing word from 
thence what he said was much more so ; that if they 
met with any answer, or spoke with any one there, it 
must be with an evil spirit ; and then I entered into a 
long discourse with him about the devil, the original of 
him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the 
reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of 
the world to be worshipped instead of God, and as 
God, and the many stratagems he made use of to delude 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 219 


mankind to their ruin ; how he had a secret access to 
our passions and to our affections, to adapt his snares 
so to our inclinations, as to cause us even to be our 
own tempters, and to run upon our destruction by our 
own choice. 

I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in 
his mind about the devil, as it was about the being of a 
God. Nature assisted all my arguments to evidence to 
him even the necessity of a great First Cause and over- 
ruling, governing Power, a secret directing Providence, 
and of the equity and justice of paying homage to Him 
that made us, and the like. But there appeared nothing 
of all this in the notion of an evil spirit ; of his original, 
his being, his nature, and above all, of his inclination 
to do evil, and to draw us in to do so too ; and the 
poor creature puzzled me once in such a manner by a 
question merely natural and innocent, that I scarce 
knew what to say to him. I had been talking a great 
deal to him of the power of God, His omnipotence, His 
dreadful aversion to sin, His being a consuming fire to 
the workers of iniquity ; how, as He had made us all. 
He could destroy us and all the world in a moment; 
and he listened with great seriousness to me all the 
while. 

After this 1 had been telling him how the devil was 
God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used all his 
malice and skill to defeat the good designs of Provi- 
dence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world, 
and the like. ^ Well,' says Friday, ‘ but you say God 
is so strong, so great ; is He not much strong, much 
might as the devil ^ Yes, yes,' says I, ^ Friday, God 
is stronger than the devil ; God is above the devil, and 
therefore we pray to God to tread him down under our 
feet, and enable us to resist his temptation, and quench 
his fiery darts.' ^But,' says he again, ‘if God much 
strong, much might as the devil, why God no kill the 
devil, so make him no more do wicked ? ' 

1 was strangely surprised at his question ; and after 
all, though 1 was now an old man, yet I was but a 
young doctor, and ill enough qualified for a casuist, or 



220 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

a solver of difficulties ; and at first 1 could not tell 
what to say ; so 1 pretended not to hear him^ and asked 
him what he said? But he was too earnest for an 
answer to forget his question^ so thathe repeated it in the 
very same broken words as above. By this time 1 had 
recovered myself a little^ and I said^ * God will at last 
punish him severely ; he is reserved for the jud^ent. 
and is to be cast into the bottomless pit^ to dwml with 
everlasting fire.* This did not satisfy Friday ; but he 
returns upon me, repeating my words, ‘ Reserve at 
last ! me no understand ; but why not kill the devil 
now ? not kill great ago ?* ^ You may as well ask me,* 

said I, ‘ why God does not kill you and I, when we do 
wicked things here that offend Him ; we are preserved 
to repent and Be pardoned.* He muses awhile at this. 
^Well, well,* says he, mighty affectionately, ^that 
well ; so you, 1, devil, all wicked, all preserve, repent, 
God pardon all.* Here 1 was run down again by him 
to the last degree, and it was a testimony to me how 
the mere notions of nature, though they will guide 
reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of 
a worship or homage due to the supreme being of God, 
as the consequence of our nature, yet nothing but 
Divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus 
Christ, and of a redemption purchased for us, of a 
Mediator of the new covenant, and of an Intercessor at 
the footstool of God’s throne ; I say, nothing but a 
revelation from heaven can form these in the soul, and 
that therefore the Gospel of our Lord and Saviour 
Jesus Christ, 1 mean the Word of God, and the Spirit 
of God, promised for the guide and sanctifier of His 
people, are the absolutely necessary instructors of the 
souls of men in the saving knowledge of God, and the 
means of salvation. 

1 therefore diverted the present discourse between 
me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden 
occasion of going out ; then sending him for something 
a good way off, I seriously prayed to God that He 
would enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage, 
assisting, by His Spirit, the heart of the poor ignorant 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON flRUSOE 221 

creature to receive the light qf the knowledge of God 
in Christ, reconciling him to Himself, and would 
guide me to speak so to him from the Word of God as 
his conscience might be convinced, his eyes opened, 
and his soul saved. When he came again to me, I 
entered into a long discourse with him upon the sub- 
ject of the redemption of man by the Saviour of ‘the 
world, and of the doctrine of the Gospel preached from 
heaven, viz., of repentance towards God, and faith in 
our blessed Lord Jesus. I then explained to him as 
well as 1 could why our blessed Redeemer took not on 
Him the nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham ; 
and how, for that reason, the fallen angels had no 
share in the redemption ; that He came only to the 
lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the like. 

1 had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in 
all the methods 1 took for this poor creatoress instruc- 
tion, and must acknowledge, what I believe all that 
act upon the same principle will find, that in laying 
things open to him, 1 really informed and instructed 
myself in many things that either I did not know, or 
had not fully considered before, but which occurred 
naturally to my mind upon my searching into them for 
the information of. this poor savage. And 1 had more 
aifection in my inquiry after things upon this occasion 
than ever I felt before ; so that whether this poor wild 
wretch was the better for me or no, I had great reason 
to be thankful that ever he came to me. My grief set 
lighter upon me, my habitation grew comfortable to 
me beyond measure ; and when 1 reflected, that in this 
solitary life which I had been confined to, I had not 
only been moved myself to look up to heaven, and to 
seek to the Hand that had brought me there, but was 
now to be made an instrument, under Providence, to 
save the life, and, for aught I know, the soul of a poor 
savage, and bring him to the true knowledge of religion, 
and of the Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ 
Jesus, to know whom is life eternal ; — I say, when I 
reflected upon all these things, a secret joy ran through 
every part of my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that 



222 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


ever 1 was brought to thigf place^ which I had so often 
thought the most dreadful of all afflictions that could 
possiDly have befallen me. 

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder 
of my time, and the conversation which employed the 
hours between Friday and I was such, as made the 
three years which we lived there together perfectly and 
completely happy, if any such thing as complete happi- 
ness can be formed in a sublunary state. The savage 
was now a good Christian, a much better than 1 ; 
though I have reason to hope, and bless God for it, 
that we were equally penitent, and comforted, restored 
penitents. We had here the Word of God to read, 
and no farther off from His Spirit to instruct than if 
we had been in England. 

I always applied myself to reading the Scripture, to 
let him know, as well as I could, the meaning of what 
I read ; and he again, by his serious inquiries and 
questions, made me, as 1 said before, a much better 
scholar in the Scripture-knowledge than I should ever 
have been by my own private mere reading. Another 
thing I cannot refrain from observing here also, from 
experience in this retired part of my life, viz., how 
infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is that the know- 
ledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation by Christ 
Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the Word of God, so 
easy to be received and understood ; that as the bare 
reading the Scripture made me capable of under- 
standing enough of my duty to carry me directly on to 
the great work of sincere repentance for my sins, and 
laying hold of a Saviour for life and salvation, to a 
stated reformation in practice, and obedience to all 
God's commands, and this without any teacher or 
instructor (I mean human) ; so the same plain instruc- 
tion sufficiently served to the enlightening this savage 
creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian, as 1 
have known few equal to him in my life. 

As to all the disputes, wranglings, strife, and 
contention which has happened in tne world about 
religion, whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes of 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON PRUSOE 223 

Church ffovernment, they werp all perfectly useless to 
us ; as, for aught I can yet see, they have been to all 
the rest in the world. We had the sure guide to 
heaven, viz., the Word of God; and we had, blessed be 
God, comfortable views of the Spirit of God teaching 
and instructing us by His Word, leading us into all 
truth, and making us both willing and obedient to the 
instruction of His Word ; and I cannot see the least 
use that the greatest knowledge of the disputed points 
in religion, which have made such confusions in the 
world, would have been to us if we could have obtained 
it. But I must go on with the historical part of things, 
and take every part in its order. 

After Friday and 1 became more intimately ac- 
quainted, and that he could understand almost all I 
said to him, and speak fluently, though in broken 
English, to me, I acquainted him with my own story, 
or at least so much of it as related to my coming into 
the place ; how 1 had lived there, and how long. I 
let him into the mystery, for such it was to him, of 
gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how to shoot ; 
I gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully delighted 
with, and I made him a belt, with a frog hanging to 
it, such as in England we wear hangers in ; and in the 
frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which 
was not only as good a weapon, in some cases, but much 
more useful upon other occasions. 

1 described to him the country of Europe, and parti- 
cularly England, which 1 came from ; how we lived, 
how we worshipped God, how wo behaved to one 
another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of the 
world. I gave Jiim an account of the wreck which I 
had been on board of, and showed him, as near as I 
could, the place where she lay ; but she was all beaten 
in pieces before, and gone. 

1 showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost 
when we escaped, and which I could not stir with my 
whole strength then, but was now fallen almost all to 
pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a 
great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it 



224 ADVENTJJRES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

was he studied upon. At last says he^ ^ Me see such 
boat like come to place at my nation.* 

1 did not understand him a good while ; hut at last^ 
when 1 had examined further into it, I understood by 
him that a boat such as that had been, came on shore 
upon the country where he lived ; that is, as he ex- 
plained it, was driven thither by stress of weather. 1 
presently imagined that some European ship must have 
been cast away upon their coast, and the boat might 
get loose and drive ashore ; but was so dull, that I 
never once thought of men making escape from a wreck 
thither, much less whence they might come ; so I only 
inquired after a description of the boat. 

Friday described the boat to me well enough ; but 
brought me better to understand him when he added 
with some warmth, ‘We save the white mans from 
drown.* Then I presently asked him if there was any 
white mans, as he called them, in the boat, ‘ Yes,* he 
said, ^the boat full of white mans.* 1 asked him how 
many. He told upon his fingers seventeen. 1 asked 
him then what became of them. He told me, ‘ They 
live, they dwell at my nation.* 

This put new thoughts into my head ; for I presently 
Imagined that these might be the men belonging to the 
ship that was cast away in sight of my island, as I now 
call it ; and who, after the ship was struck on the ruck, 
and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves 
in their boat, and were landed upon that wild shore 
among the savages. 

Upon this I inquired of him more critically what 
was become of them. He assured me they lived still 
there ; that they had been there about fpur years ; that 
the savages let them alone, and gave them victuals to 
live. 1 asked him how it came to pass they did not 
kill them, and eat them. He said, ‘ No, they make 
brother with them * ; that is, as 1 understood him, a 
truce ; and then he added, ‘ They no eat mans but 
when make the war fight ’ ; that is to say, they never 
eat any men but such as come to fight with them and 
are taken in battle. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 225 


It was after this some considerable time, that being 
un the top of the hill, at thft east side of the island 
(from whence, as I have said, 1 had in a clear day dis- 
covered the main or continent of America), Friday, the 
weather being very serene, looks very earnestly towards 
the mainland, and, in a kind of surprise, falls a-jumping 
and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some 
distance from him. I asked him what was the matter ? 
‘ O joy ! * says he, ' O glad I there see my country, 
there my nation ! * 

I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure ap- 
peared in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his 
countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he 
had a mind to be in his own country again ; and this 
observation of mine put a great many thoughts into 
me, which made me at first not so easy about my new 
man Friday as I was before ; and I made no doubt but 
that if Friday could get back to his own nation again, 
he would not only forget ail his religion, but all his 
obligation to me ; and would be forward enough to 
give his countrymen an account of me, and come back 
perhaps with a hundred or two of them, and make a 
least upon me, at which he might be as merry as he 
used to be with those of his enemies, when they were 
taken in war. 

But I wronged the poor honest creature very much, 
for which 1 was very sorry afterwards. However, as 
my jealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I was 
a little more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind 
to him as before ; in which 1 was certainly in the 
wrong too, the honest, grateful creature having no 
thought about it but what consisted with the best 
principles, both as a religious Christian and as a 
grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my full 
satisfaction. 

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure 
I was every day pumping him, to see if he would 
discover any of the new thoughts which I suspected 
were in him ; but I found everything he said was so 
honest and so innocent, that I could find nothing to 
Q 



226 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


nourish my suspicion ; and^ in spite of all my uneasi- 
ness^ he made me at latt entirely his own again, nor 
did he in the least perceive that I was uneasy, and 
therefore 1 could not suspect him of deceit. 

One day, walking up the same hill, hut the weather 
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the conti- 
nent, I called to him, and said, 'Friday, do not you 
wish yourself in your own country, your own nation ? * 
' Yes,* he said, ' 1 be much O glad to be at my own 
nation.* ' What would you do there * said 1. ' Would 
you turn wild again, eat men’s flesh again, and be a 
savage as you were before.^* Ho looked full of con- 
cern, and shaking his head said, 'No, no ; Friday 
tell them to live good ; tell them to pray God ; tell 
them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk, no eat man 
again.* 'Why then,* said 1 to him, 'they will kill 
you.* He looked grave at that, and then said, ' No, 
they no kill me, they willing love learn.* He meant 
by this they would be willing to learn. He added, 
they learned much of the bearded mans that come in 
the boat. Then 1 asked him if he would go back to 
them } He smiled at that, and told mo he could not 
swim so far. 1 told him I would make a canoe for 
him. He told me he would go, if I would go with 
him. 'I go ! * says I ; ' why, they will eat me if I 
come there.* 'No, no,' says he, 'me make they no 
eat you ; me make they much love you.* He meant, 
he would tell them how 1 had killed his enemies, and 
saved his life, and so he would make them love me. 
Then he told me, as well as he could, how kind they 
were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he 
called them, who came on shore there in distress. 

From this time I confess 1 had a fliind to venture 
over, and see if 1 could possibly join with these bearded 
men, who, 1 made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portu- 
guese ; not doubting but, if I could, we might find 
some method to escape from thence, being upon the 
continent, and a good company together, better than 
I could from an island forty miles off the shore, and 
alone, without help. So, after some days, 1 took 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 227 


Friday to work again, by way of discourse, and told 
him 1 would give him a boat to go hack to his own 
nation ; and accordingly I carried him to my frigate, 
which lay on the other side of the island, and having 
cleared it of water, for I always kept it sunk in the 
water, I brought it out, showed it him, and we both 
went into it. 

I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing 
it, would make it go almost as swift and fast again as 1 
could. So when he was in 1 said to him, ^ Well now, 
Friday, shall we go to your nation } * He looked very 
dull at my saying so, which, it seems, was because he 
thought the boat too small to go so far. I told him 
then 1 had a bigger ; so the next day I went to the 
place where the first boat lay which I had made, but 
which I could not get into water. He said that was 
big enough ; but then, as 1 had taken no care of it, 
and it had lain two or three and twenty years there, 
the sun had split and dried it, that it was in a manner 
rotten. Friday told me such a boat would do very 
well, and would carry ‘ much enough victual, drink, 
bread ' ; that was his way of talking. 

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon 
my design of going over with him to the continent, 
that I told him we would go and make one as big as 
that, and he should go home in it. He answered not 
one word, but looked very grave and sad. 1 asked 
him what was the matter with him.^ He asked me 
again thus, ^Why you angry mad with Friday.^ what 
me done ? ’ 1 asked him what he meant. 1 told him 
I was not angry with him at all. ‘ No angry ! no 
angry ! * says he, repeating the words several times. 
^ Why send FrMay home away to my nation ? * ^ Why/ 

says I. ^ Friday, did you not say you wished you were 
there?* ‘Yes, yes,’ says he, ‘wish be both there, 
no wish Friday there, no master there.* In a word, 
he would not think of going there without me. ‘ I 
go there, Friday ! * says I ; ‘ what shall I do there ? ' 
He turned very quick upon me at this : ‘You do great 
deal much good/ says he ; ‘ you teach wild mans to be 



228 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


good^ sober, tame mans ; you tell them know God, 
pray God, and live new iife/ ^ Alas ! Friday,* says I, 
^thou knowest not what thou sayest. I am but an 
ignorant man myself.* ^ Yes, yes,* says he, * you 
teachee me good, you teachee them good.* ^No, no, 
Friday,* says I, ‘ you shall go without me ; leave me 
here to live by myself, as I did before.* He looked 
confused again at that word, and running to one of 
the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up 
hastily, comes and gives it me. ‘ Wliat must I do 
with this?* says I to him. ^ You take kill Friday,* 
says he. ^ Wliat must I kill you for ? * said 1 again. 
He returns very quick, ‘ Wliat you send Friday away 
for? Take kill Friday, no send BViday away.* This 
he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his eyes. 
In a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost affection 
in him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that I told 
him then, and often after, that I would never send him 
away from me if he was willing to stay with me. 

Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a 
settled affection to me, and that nothing should part 
him from me, so I found all the foundation of his 
desire to go to his own country was laid in his ardent 
affection to the people, and his hopes of my doing them 
good ; a thing whicli, as I had no notion of myself, so 
1 had not the least thought or intention or desire of 
undertaking it. But still I found a strong inclination 
to my attempting an escape, as above, founded on the 
supposition gathered from the discourse, viz,, that there 
were seventeen bearded men there ; and, therefore, 
without any more delay I went to work with Friday 
to find out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large 
pcriagua, or canoe, to undertake the voyage. There 
were trees enough in the island to have built a little 
fleet, not of periaguas and canoes, but even of good 
large vessels. But the main thing I looked at was, to 
get one so near the water that we might launch it when 
it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first. 

At last Friday pitched upon a tree, for 1 found he 
knew much better than I what kind of wood was fittest 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON , CRUSOE 22D 

for it ; nor can I tell, to th\^ day, what wood to call 
the tree we cut down, except that it was very like the 
tree we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua 
wood, for it was much of the same colour and smell. 
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this 
tree out, to make it for a boat, but I showed him how 
rather to cut it out with tools ; which, after I had 
showed him how to use, he did very handily ; and in 
about a month’s hard labour we finished it, and made it 
very handsome ; especially when, with our axes, which 
1 showed him how to handle, we cut and hewed the 
outside into the true shape of a boat. After this, how- 
ever, it cost us near a fortnight’s time to get her along, 
as it w’cre inch by inch, upon great rollers into the 
water ; but when she was in, she would have carried 
twenty men with great ease. 

When she was in the water, and though she was so 
big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how 
swift my man Friday would manage her, turn her, and 
paddle her along. So 1 asked him if he would, and if 
we might venture over in her. ^Yes,’ he said, ^he 
venture over in her very well, though great blow wind.’ 
However, I had a farther design that he knew nothing 
of, and that was to make a mast and sail, and to fit 
her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was 
easy enough to get ; so I pitched upon a straight young 
cedar tree, which I found near the place, and which 
there was great plenty of in the island ; and I set Friday 
to work to cut it down, and gave him directions how 
to shape and order it. But as to the sail, that was my 
particular care. I knew I had old sails, or rather 
pieces of old asails enough ; but as I had had them 
now twenty-six years by me, and had not been very 
careful to preserve them, not imagining that I should 
ever have this kind of use for them, I did not doubt 
but they were all rotten, and, indeed, most of them 
were so. However, I found two pieces which appeared 
pretty good, and with these 1 went to work, and with 
a great deal of pains, and awkward tedious stitching 
(you may be sure) for want of needles, I, at length, 



230 ADVENT7JRES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

made a three-cornered ugjy thing, like what wo call in 
England a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom 
at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as 
usually our ships* longboats sail with, and such as I 
best knew how to manage ; because it was such a one 
as I had to the boat in which I made my escape from 
Barbary, as related in the first part of my story. 

1 was near two months performing this last work, 
viz. , rigging and fitting my mast and sails ; for 1 
finished them very complete, making a small stay, and 
a sail, or foresail, to it, to assist, if we should turn to 
windward ; and, which was more than all, I fixed a 
rudder to the stern of her to steer with ; and though I 
was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the 
usefulness, and even necessity, of such a thing, I applied 
myself with so mucli pains to do it, that at last I 
brought it to pass ; though, considering the many dull 
contrivances I had for it that failed, 1 think it cost me 
almost as much labour as making the boat. 

After all this was done too, 1 had my man Friday 
to teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my 
boat ; for though he knew very well how to paddle a 
canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail and a 
rudder ; and was the most amazed when he saw me 
work the boat to and again in the sea by the rudder, 
and how the sail jibbed, and filled this way, or that 
way, as the course we sailed changed ; I say, when he 
saw this, he stood like one astonished and amazed. 
However, with a little use I made all these things 
familiar to him, and he became an expert sailor, 
exqept that as to the compass I could make him 
understand very little of that. On tho other hand, 
as there was very little cloudy weather, and seldom 
or never any fogs in those parts, there was the 
less occasion for a compass, seeing the stars were 
always to be seen by night, and the shore by day, 
except in the rainy seasons, and then nobody cared to 
stir abroad, either by land or sea. 

I was now entered on the seven and twentieth 
year of my captivity in this place ; though the three 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON pRUSOE 231 

last years that I had this jreature with me ought 
rather to be left out of the account, my habitation 
being quite of another kind than in all the rest of the 
time. I kept the anniversary of my landing here with 
the same thankfulness to God for His mercies as at 
first ; and if 1 had such cause of acknowledgment at 
first, I had much more so now, having such additional 
testimonies of the care of Providence over me, and the 
great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily 
delivered ; for I had an invincible impression upon my 
thoughts that my deliverance was at hand, and that I 
should not be another year in this place. However, I 
went on with my husbandry, digging, planting, fencing, 
as usual. 1 gathered and cured my grapes, and did 
every necessary thing as before. 

The rainy season was, in the meantime, upon me, 
when I kept more within doors than at other times ; so I 
had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could, bringing 
her up into the creek, where, as 1 said in the beginning, 
I landed my rafts from the ship ; and hauling her up 
to the shore at high-water mark, 1 made my man 
Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold her, 
and just deep enough to give her water enough to float 
in ; and then, when'the tide was out, wo made a strong 
dam cross the end of it, to keep the water out ; and 
so she lay dry, as to the tide, from the sea ; and to 
keep the rain off, we laid a great many boughs of trees, 
so thick, that she was as well thatched as a house ; 
and thus we waited for the month of November and 
December, in which I designed to make my adventure. 

Wlien the settled season began to come in, as the 
thought of m)% design returned with the fair weather, 
I was preparing daily for the voyage ; and the first 
thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity of pro- 
visions, being the stores for our voyage ; and intended, 
in a week or a fortnight’s time, to open the dock, and 
launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon 
something of this kind, when 1 called to Friday, and 
bid him go to the sea-shore and see if he could find 
a turtle, or tortoise, a thing which we generally got 



232 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

once a week^ for the sal^e of the eggs as well as the 
flesh. Friday had not been long gone when he came 
running back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence, 
like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set 
his feet on ; and before I had time to speak to him, 
he cries out to me, ^ O master ! O master ! O 
sorrow ! O bad ! * ^ What*s the matter, Friday ? ’ 

says I. ‘ O yonder, there,* says he, ^ one, two, 
three canoe ! one, two, three ! * By his way of 
speaking, I concluded there were six ; hut, on inquiry, 
I found it was but three. ‘ Well, Friday,* says I, 
^do not be frighted.* So 1 heartened him up as well 
as I could. However, I saw the poor fellow was 
most terribly scared ; for nothing ran in his head but 
that they were come to look for him, and would cut 
him in pieces, and eat him ; and the poor fellow 
trembled so, that I scarce knew what to do with him. 
I comforted him as well as I could, and told him 1 
was in as much danger as he, and that they would eat 
me as well as him. ^ But,* says I, ^ Friday, we 
must resolve to fight them. Can you fight, Friday ? * 
‘ Me shoot,’ says ho ; ^ but there come many great 
number.* ^No matter for that,* said I again; ^our 
guns will fright them that we do not kill.* So I 
asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he 
would defend me, and stand by me, and do just as 1 
bid him. He said, ^Me die when you bid die, 
master.* So I went and fetched a good dram of 
rum, and gave him ; for I had been so good a husband 
of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he 
had drank it, I made him take the two fowling-pieces, 
which we always carried, and load ths^m with large 
swan-shot, as big as small pistol-bullets. Then I took 
four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs and five 
small bullets each ; and my two pistols 1 loaded with 
a brace of bullets each. I hung my great sword, as 
usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet. 

When I had thus prepared myself, I took mv 
perspective-glass, and went up to the side of the hill 
to see what I could discover ; and I found quickly, by 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON , CRUSOE 233 


my glass, that there were ^ne and twenty savages, 
three prisoners, and three canoes, and that their whole 
business seemed to he the triumphant banquet upon 
these three human bodies ; a baroarous feast indeed, 
but nothing more than, as I had observed, was usual 
with them. 

I observed also that they were landed, not where 
they had done when Friday made his escape, but 
nearer to my creek, where the shore was low, and 
where a thick wood came close almost down to the 
sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand 
these wretches came about, filled me with such indig- 
nation, that 1 came down again to Friday, and told 
him I was resolved to go down to them, and kill them 
all, and asked him if he would stand by me. He 
was now gotten over his fright, and his spirits being 
a little raised with the dram I had given him, he was 
very cheerful, and told me, as before, he would die 
when I bid die. 

In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms 
which I had charged, as before, between us. I gave 
Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns 
upon his shoulder ; and 1 took one pistol, and the 
other three myself, .and in this posture we marched 
out I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and 
gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullet ; 
and as to orders, I charged him to keep close behind 
me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do anything, till I bid 
him, and in the meantime not to speak a word. In 
this posture I fetched a compass to my right hand of 
near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into 
the wood, so that 1 might come within shot of them 
before I should be discovered, which I had seen, by 
my glass, it was easy to do. 

While I was making this march, my former thoughts 
returning, 1 began to abate my resolution. I do not 
mean that I entertained any fear of their number ; for 
as they were naked, unarmed wretches, *tis certain I 
was superior to them ; nay, though 1 had been alone. 
But it occurred to my thoughts what call, what 



234 ADVENT7JRES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


occasion^ much less what» necessity, I was in to go and 
dip my hands in blood, to attack people who had 
neither done or intended me any wrong; who, as 
to m^, were innocent, and whose barbarous customs 
were their own disaster ; being in them a token indeed 
of God*s having left them, with the other nations of 
that part of the world, to such stupidity, and to such 
inhuman courses ; but did not call me to take upon me 
to be a judge of their actions, much less an executioner 
of His justice; that whenever He thought fit. He 
would take the eause into His own hands, and by 
national vengeance, punish them, as a people, for 
national crimes ; but that, in the meantime, it was 
none of my business ; that, it was true, Friday might 
justify it, because he was a declared enemy, and in 
a state of war with those very particular people, and 
it was lawful for him to attack them ; but I could not 
say the same with respect to me. These things were 
so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way as I 
went, that I resolved I would only go and place my- 
self near them, that 1 might observe their barbarous 
feast, and that 1 would act then as God should direct ; 
but that, unless something offered that was more a call 
to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with 
them. 

With this resolution I entered the wood, and with 
all possible wariness and silence, Friday following close 
at my heels, 1 marched till 1 came to the sjcirt of the 
wood, on the side which was next to them ; only that 
one corner of the wood lay between me and them. 
Here I called softly tb Friday, and showing him a 
great tree, which was just at the coriMr of the wood, 
I bade him go to the tree and bring me word if he 
could see there plainly what they were doing. He 
did so, and came immediately back to me, and told me 
they might be plainly viewed there ; that they were all 
about their fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, 
and that another lay bound upon the sand, a little from 
them, which, he said, they would kill next ; and, which 
fired all the very soul within me, he told me it was 



ADVEOTURES OF ROBINSON ORUSOE 235 


not one of their nation, but one of the bearded men, 
whom he had told me of, that came to their country in 
the boat 1 was filled with horror at the very naming 
the white, bearded man ; and going to the tree, I saw 
plainly, by my glass, a white man, who lay upon the 
beach of the sea, with his hands and his feet tied with 
flags, or things like rushes, and that he was an European, 
and had clothes on. 

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond 
it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the place where 
I was, which, by going a little way about, I saw J 
might come at undiscovered, and that then 1 should be 
within half shot of them ; so I withheld my passion, 
though 1 was indeed enraged to the highest degree ; 
and going back about twenty paces, I got behind some 
bushes, which held all the way till I came to the other 
tree ; and then I came to a little rising ground, which 
gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about 
eighty yards. 

I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the 
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled 
together, and had just sent the other two to butcher the 
poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps limb by limb, 
to their fire ; and thej were stooped down to untie the 
bands at his feet. 1 turned to Friday : ^ Now, Friday,* 
said I, ^do as I bid thee.* Friday said he would. 
^TTien, Friday,* says 1, ^do exactly as you see me do ; 
fail in nothing.* So I set down one of the muskets 
and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday did 
the like by his ; and with the other musket I took my 
aim at the savages, bidding him do the like. Then 
asking him if ke was ready, he said, ^Yes.* ^llien 
fire at them,* said 1 ; and the same moment I fired 
also. 

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that 
on the side that he shot he killed two of them, and 
wounded three more; and on my side 1 killed one, 
and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, 
in a dreadful consternation ; and all of them who 
were not hurt jumped up upon their feet, but did not 



236 ADVENT;.URES of ROBINSON CRUSOE 

immediately know whicl? way to run, or which way 
to look, for they knew not from whence their destruc- 
tion came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that, 
as I had bid him, he might observe what I did ; so 
as soon as the first shot was made I threw down 
the piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and Friday 
did the like. He sees me cock and present ; he did 
the same again. ^ Are you ready, Friday ? ' said 
I. ^ Yes,’ says he. ‘Let fly, then,’ says I, ‘in 
the name of God ! ’ and with that I fired again 
among the aipazed wretches, and so did Friday ; and 
as our pieces were now loaded with what 1 called 
swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we found only two 
drop, but so many were wounded, that they ran about 
yelnng and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, 
and miserably wounded most of them ; whereof three 
more fell quickly after, though not quite dead. 

‘Now, Friday,’ says I, laying down the discharged 
pieces, and taking up the musket which was yet 
loaded, ‘follow me,* says I, which he did with a 
great deal of courage ; upon which I rushed out of 
the wood, and showed myself, and Friday close at 
my foot. As soon as 1 perceived they saw me, T 
shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so 
too ; and running as fast as 1 could, which, by the 
way, was not very fast, being loaden with arms as 
I was, 1 made directly towards the poor victim, who 
was, as I said, lying upon the beach, or shore, be- 
tween the place where they sat and the sea. The 
two butchers, who were just going to work with him, 
had left him at the surprise of our first fire, and fled 
in a terrible fright to the seaside, a»?d had jumped 
into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the 
same way. I turned to Friday, and bid him step 
forwards and fire at them. lie understood me im- 
mediately, and running about forty yards, to be near 
them, he shot at them, and I thought he had killed 
them all, for 1 saw them all fall of a heap into the 
boat ; though I saw two of them up again quickly. 
However, he killed two of them, and wounded the 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 237 


third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat 
as if he had been dead. 

While my man Friday fired at them, 1 pulled out 
my knife and cut the flags that bound the poor victim ; 
and loosing his hands and feet, 1 lifted him up, and 
asked him in the Portuguese tongue what he was. 
He answered in Latin, Christianas ; but was so weak 
and faint, that he could scarce stand or speak. I took 
my bottle out of my pocket and gave it him, making 
signs that he should drink, which he did ; and J gave 
him a piece of bread, which he eat. Then I asked 
him what countryman he was ; and he said, Espagniole ; 
and being a little recovered, let me know, by all the 
signs he could possibly make, how much he was in 
my debt for his deliverance. ‘ Seignior,* said 1, with 
as much Spanish as I could make up, ^we will talk 
afterwards, but we must fight now. If you have any 
strength left, take this pistol and sword, and lay about 
you.* He took them very thankfully, and no sooner 
had he the arms in his hands but, as if they had put 
new vigour into him, he flew upon his murderers like 
a fury, and had cut two of them in pieces in an 
instant ; for the truth is, as the whole was a surprise 
to them, so the poor creatures were so much frighted 
with the noise of our pieces, that they fell down for 
mere amazement and fear, and had no more power 
to attempt their own escape, than their flesh had to 
resist our shot ; and that was the case of those five 
that Friday shot at in the boat ; for as three of them 
fell with the hurt they received, so the other two fell 
with the fright. 

1 kept my piece in my hand still without firing, 
being willing to keep my charge ready, because I 
had given the Spaniard my pistol and sword. So 1 
called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree 
from whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which 
lay there that had been discharged, which he did 
with great swiftness ; and then giving him my musket, 
I sat down myself to load all the rest again, and bade 
them come to me when they wanted. M^ile I wan 



238 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


loading these pieces^ there happened a fierce engage- 
ment between the Spaniard and one of the savages, 
who made at him with one of their great wooden 
swords, the same weapon that was to have killed him 
before if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who 
was as bold and as brave as could be imagined, though 
weak, had fought this Indian a good wliilc, and had 
cut him two great wounds on his head ; but the savage 
being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in with him, had 
thrown him down, being faint, and was wringing my 
eword out of his hand, when the Spaniard, though 
undermost, wisely quitting the sword, drew the pistol 
irom his girdle, shot the savage through the body, 
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was 
running to help him, could come near him. 

Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the 
flying wretches with no weapon in his hand but his 
hatchet ; and with that he despatched those three 
who, as 1 said before, were wounded at first, and 
fallen, and all the rest he could come up with ; and 
the Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I gave him one 
of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued two of 
the savages, and wounded them both ; but as he was 
not able to run, they both got from him into the 
wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed one of 
them ; but the other was too nimble for him, and 
though he was wounded, yet had plunged himself into 
the sea, and swam with all his might off to those two 
who were left in the canoe ; which three in the canoe, 
with one wounded, who we know not whether he died 
or no, were all that escaped our hands of one and 
twenty. The account of the rest is as follows : — 

3 killed at our first shot from the tree. 

2 killed at the next shot 

2 killed by Friday in the boat. 

2 killed by ditto, of those at first wounded. 

1 killed by ditto in the wood. 

3 killed by the Spaniard. 

4 killed, being found dropped here and there of 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 239 


their wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase 
of them. 

4 escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not 
dead. 

21 in all. 

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get 
out of gun-shot ; and though Friday made two or three 
shots at them, I did not find that he hit any of them. 
Friday would fain have had me take one of their 
canoes, and pursue them ; and, indeed, I was very 
anxious about their escape, lest carrying the news home 
to their people they should come back perhaps with 
two or three hundred of their canoes, and devour us by 
mere multitude. So I consented to pursue them by sea, 
and running to one of their canoes 1 jumped in, and 
bade Friday follow me. But when 1 was in the canoe, 
1 was surprised to find another poor creature lie there 
alive, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for 
the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not knowing 
what the matter was ; for he had not been able to look 
up over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard, neck 
and heels, and had been tied so long, that he had really 
but little life in him. . 

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which 
they had bound him with, and would have helped him 
up ; but he could not stand or speak, but groaned most 
piteously, believing, it seems, still that he was only 
unbound in order to be killed. 

When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to 
him, and tell him of his deliverance ; and pulling out 
my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram ; 
which, with the news of his being delivered, revived 
him, and he sat up in the boat. But when Friday 
came to hear him speak, and look in his face, it would 
have moved any one to tears to have seen how Friday 
kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, 
halloed, jumped about, danced, sung ; then cried again, 
wrung his hands, beat his own face and head, and then 



240 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


sung and jumped about again^ like a distracted creature. 
It was a good while befora I could make him speak to 
me, or tell me what was the matter ; but when he 
came a little to himself, he told me that it was his 
fatlier. 

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to 
see what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this 
poor savage at the sight of his father, and of his being 
delivered from death ; nor, indeed, can I describe half 
the extravagances of his affection after this ; for he 
went into the boat, and out of the boat, a great many 
times. When he went in to him, he would sit down 
by him, open his breast, and hold his father s head 
close to his bosom, half an hour together, to nourish 
it; then he took his arms and ankles, which were 
numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed and 
rubbed them with his hands ; and 1, perceiving what 
the case was, gave him some rum out of my bottle 
to rub them with, which did them a great deal of 
good. 

ITiis action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe 
with the other savages, who were now gotten almost 
out of sight ; and it was happy for us that we did not, 
for it blew so hard within two hours after, and before 
they could be gotten a quarter of their way, and con- 
tinued blowing so 'hard all night, and that from the 
north-west, which was against them, that I could not 
suppose their boat could live, or that they ever reached 
to their own coast. 

But to return to Friday. He was so busy about his 
father, that 1 could not find in my heart to take him 
off for some time ; but after I thought he could leave 
him a little, 1 called him to me, and ho came jumping 
and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme. Then 
I asked him if he had given his father any bread. He 
shook his head, and said, ^ None ; ugly dog eat all up 
self.’ So I gave him a cake of bread out of a little 
pouch I carried on purpose. I also gave him a dram 
for himself, but he would not taste it, but carried it to 
his father. I had in my pocket also two or three 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 241 


bunches of my raisins, so I ^ave him a handful of them 
for his father. He had no sooner given his father 
these raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat and 
run away, as if he had been bewitched, he ran at such 
a rate ; for he was the swiftest fellow of his foot that 
ever I saw. I say, he run at such a rate, that he was 
out of sight, as it were, in an instant ; and though 1 
called, and hallooed too, after him, it was all one, 
away he went ; and in a quarter of an hour I saw him 
come back again, though not so fast as he went ; and 
as he came nearer 1 found his pace was slacker, because 
he had something in his hand. 

When he came up to me, I found he had been quite 
home for an eartlien jug, or pot, to bring his father 
some fresh water, and that he had got two more cakes 
or loaves of bread. The bread he gave me, but the 
water he carried to his father. However, as I was 
very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. 7'his water 
revived his father more than all the rum or spirits 
I had given him, for he was just fainting with 
thirst 

When his father had drank, I called to him to 
know if there was any water left. He said ^Yes*; 
and I hade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was 
in as much want of !t as his father ; and I sent one of 
the cakes, that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, 
who was indeed very weak, and was reposing himself 
upon a green place under the shade of a tree ; and 
wnose limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled 
with the rude bandage he had been tied with. When I 
saw that upon Friday’s coming to him with the water 
he sat up and ^rank, and took the bread, and began to 
eat, I went to him, and g^ve him a handful of raisins. 
He looked up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude 
and thankfulness tnat could appear in any countenance ; 
but was so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted 
himself in the fight, that he could not stand up upon 
his feet. He tried to do it two or three times, but was 
really not able, his ankles were so swelled and so 
painful to him ; so 1 bade him sit still, and caused 

R 



242 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

Friday to rub his ankles^ |wid batlie them with rum, as 
he had done his father s. 

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two 
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here, 
turned his head about to see if his father was in the 
same place and posture as he left him sitting ; and at 
last he found he was not to be seen ; at which he 
started up, and without speaking a word, flew with 
that swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive 
his feet to touch the ground as he went. But when he 
came, he only found he had laid himself down to ease 
his limbs ; so Friday came back to me presently, and 
1 then spoke to the Spaniard to let P'riday help him 
up, if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he 
should carry him to our dwelling, where I would take 
care of him. But Friday, a lusty strong fellow, took 
the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried him 
away to the boat, and set him down softly upon the 
side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside 
of it, and then lifted him quite in, and set him close 
to his father ; and presently stepping out again, launched 
the boat off, and paddled it along the shore faster than 
I could walk, though the wind blew pretty hard too. 
So he brought them both safe into our creek, and 
leaving them in the boat, runs away to fetch the other 
canoe. As he passed me, 1 spoke to him, and asked 
him whither he went. He told me, *^Go fetch more 
boat.' So away he went like the wind, for sure never 
man or horse ran like him ; and he had the other 
canoe in the creek almost as soon as 1 got to it by 
land ; so he wafted me over, and then went to help 
our new guests out of the boat, which he did ; but 
they were neither of them ^ble to walk, so that poor 
Friday knew not what to do. 

To remedy this I went to work in my thought, and 
calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank 
while he came to me, I soon made a kind of hand- 
barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them 
up both together upon it between us. But when we 
got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification, we 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON, CRUSOE 243 

were at a worse loss than bgfore, for it was impossible 
to get them over, and I was resolved not to break it 
down. So 1 set to work again ; and Friday and I, in 
about two hours’ time, made a very handsome tent, 
covered with old sails, and above that with boughs of 
trees, being in the space without our outward fence, 
and between that and the grove of young wood which 
I had planted ; and here we made them two beds of 
such things as I had, viz., of good rice -straw, with 
blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to cover 
them, on each bed. 

My island was now peopled, and I thought myself 
very rich in subjects ; and it was a merry reflection, 
which I frequently made, how like a king I looked. 
First of all, the whole country was my own mere 
property, so that 1 had an undoubted right of dominion. 
Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected. 1 was 
absolute lord and lawgiver ; they all owed their lives 
to me, and wore ready to lay down their lives, if there 
had been occasion of it, for me. It was remarkable, 
too, we had but three subjects, and they were of three 
dilferent religions. My man Friday was a Protestant, 
his father was a Pagan and a cannibal, and the Spaniard 
was a Papist. However, I allowed liberty of conscience 
throughout my dominions. But this is by the way. 

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued 
prisoners, and given them shelter and a place to rest 
them upon, I began to think of making some provision 
for them ; and the first thing I did, 1 ordered Friday 
to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out 
of my particular flock, to he killed ; when I cut off the 
hinder-quarte% and chopping it into small pieces, I set 
Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them 
a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth, 
having put some barley and rice also into the broth ; 
and as I cooked it without doors, for I made no fire 
within my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new 
tent, and having set a table there for them, I sat down 
and ate my own dinner also with them, and as well as 
I could cheered them, and encouraged them ; Friday 



244 ADVENTfJRES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

being my interpreter, e^ecially to his father, and, 
indeed, to the Spaniard too ; for the Spaniard spoke 
the language of the savages pretty well. 

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered 
Friday to take one of the canoes and go and fetch our 
muskets and other firearms, which, for want of time, 
we had left upon the place of battle ; and the next 
day I ordered nim to go and bury the dead bodies of 
the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would 
presently be offensive ; and I also ordered him to 
bury the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which 
1 knew were pretty much, and which I could not 
think of doing myself ; nay, 1 could not bear to see 
them, if 1 went that way. All which he punctually 
performed, and defaced the very appearance of the 
savages being there ; so that when 1 went again 1 
could scarce know where it was, otherwise than by 
the corner of the wood pointing to the place. 

I then began to enter into a little conversation with 
my two new subjects ; and first, 1 set Friday to 
inquire of his father what he thought of the escape of 
the savages in that canoe, and whether we might 
expect a return of them, with a power too great for 
us to resist. His first opinion was, that the savages 
in the boat never could live out the storm which blew 
that night they went off, but must, of necessity, be 
drowned, or driven south to those otlier shores, where 
they were as sure to be devoured as they were to be 
drowned if they were cast away. But as to what 
they would do if they came safe on shore, he said 
he knew not ; but it was his opinion that they 
were so dreadfully frighted with the manner of their 
being attacked, the noise, and the fire, that he believed 
they would tell their people they were all killed by 
thunder and lightning, not by the hand of man ; and 
that the two which appeared, viz., Friday and me, 
were two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to 
destroy them, and not men with weapons. This, 
he said, he knew, because he heard them all cry out 
so in their language to one another; for it was im- 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON, CRUSOE 245 

possible to them to conceive that a man could dart 
fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a distance with- 
out lifting up the hand, as was done now. And 
this old savage was in the right ; for, as I understood 
since by other hands, the savages never attempted 
to go over to the island afterwards. They were so 
terrified with the accounts given by those four men 
(for, it seems, they did escape the sea), that they 
believed whoever went to that enchanted island would 
be destroyed with fire from the gods. 

This, however, 1 knew not, and therefore was under 
continual apprehensions for a good while, and kept 
always upon my guard, me and all my army ; for as 
we were now four of us, I would have ventured upon 
a hundred of them, fairly in the open field, at anytime. 

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, 
the fear of their coming wore off, and I began to take 
my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into con- 
sideration ; being likewise assured, by Friday^s father, 
that 1 might depend upon good usage from their 
nation, on his account, if I would go. 

But my thoughts were a little suspended when 1 
had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I 
understood that there were sixteen more of his country- 
men and Portuguese,' who, having been cast away, and 
made their escape to that side, lived there at peace, 
indeed, with the savages, but were very sore put to 
it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I asked him 
all the particulars of their voyage, and found they 
were a Spanish ship bound from the Rio de la Plata 
to the Havana, being directed to leave their loading 
there, which was chieliy hides and silver, and to bring 
back what European goods they could meet with there; 
that they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom 
they took out of another wreck ; that five of their 
own men were drowned when the first ship was lost, 
and that these escaped, through infinite dangers and 
hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal 
coast, where they expected to have been devoured 
every moment. 



246 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

f 

He told me they had some arms with them, but 
they were perfectly uselels, for that they had neither 
powder or ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled 
all their powder but a little, which they used, at their 
first lauding, to provide themselves some food. 

1 asked him what he thought would become of them 
there, and if they had formed no design of making 
any escape.^ He said they had many consultations 
about it ; but that having neither vessel, or tools to 
build one, or provisions of any kind, their councils 
always ended in tears and despair. 

1 asked him how he thought they would receive a 
proposal from me, which might tend towards an 
escape ; and whether, if they were all here, it might 
not be done.^ I told him wdth freedom, 1 feared 
mostly their treachery and ill usage of me if I put my 
life in their hands ; for that gratitude was no inherent 
virtue in the nature of man, nor did men always square 
their dealings by the obligations they had received, so 
much as they did by the advantages they expected. 1 
told him it would be very hard that 1 should be the 
instrument of their deliverance, and that they should 
afterwards make me their prisoner in New' Spain, 
where an Englishman was certain to be made a sacri- 
fice, what necessity or what accident soever brought 
him thither ; and that I had rather be delivered up to 
the savages, and ho devoured alive, than fall into the 
merciless claw's of the priests, and be carried into the 
Inquisition. I added, that otherwise I was persuaded, 
if they were all here, we might, with so many hands, 
build a bark large enough to carry us all away, either 
to the Brazils, southward, or to the islands, or Spanish 
coast, northward ; but that if, in requital, they should, 
when 1 had put weapons into their hands, carry me 
by force among their own people, 1 might be ill used 
for my kindness to them, and make my case worse than 
it was before. 

He answered, with a great deal of candour and 
ingenuity, that their condition was so miserable, and 
they were so sensible of it, that he believed they would 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 247 


abhor the thought of using any man unkindly that 
should contribute to their dfiliveranco ; and that, if I 

S leased, he would go to them with the old man, and 
iscourse with them about it, and return again, and 
bring me their answer ; that he would make conditions 
with them upon their solemn oath that they should 
be absolutely under my leading, as their commander 
and captain ; and that they should swear upon the 
holy sacraments and the gospel to be true to me, and 
to go to such Christian country as that 1 should 
agree to, and no other, and to be directed wholly 
and absolutely by my orders till they were landed 
safely in such country as 1 intended ; and that he 
would bring a contract from them, under their hands, 
for that purpose. 

Then he told me he would first swear to me himself, 
that he would never stir from me as long as he lived 
till J gave him orders ; and that he would take my 
side to the last drop of his blood, if there should 
happen the least breach of faith among his country- 
men. 

He told me they were all of them very civil, honest 
men, and they were under the greatest distress imagin- 
able, having neither weapons or clothes, or any food, 
but at the mercy and discretion of the savages ; out of 
all hopes of ever returning to their own country ; and 
that he was sure, if I would undertake their relief, 
they would live and die by me. 

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to 
relieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage 
and this Spaniard over to them to treat. But when 
we had gotte^i all things in a readiness to go, the 
Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so 
much prudence in it on one hand, and so much 
sincerity on the other hand, that 1 could not but be 
very well satisfied in it, and by his advice put oJF the 
deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year. 
The case was thus. 

He had been with us now about a month, during 
which time 1 had let him see in what manner 1 had 



248 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

t 

provided^ with the assistance of Providence, for my 
support ; and he saw evidently what stock of corn and 
rice 1 had laid up ; which, as it was more than sufficient 
for myself, so it was not sufficient, at least without 
good husbandry, for my family, now it was increased 
to number four ; but much less would it be sufficient 
if his countrymen, wlio were, as he said, fourteen, still 
alive, should come over ; and least of all would it be 
sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build one, 
for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of America. 
So he told me he thought it would be more advisable 
to let him and the two others dig and cultivate some 
more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow ; and 
that we should wait another harvest, that we might 
have a supply of corn for his countrymen when they 
should come ; for want might be a temptation to them 
to disagree, or not to think themselves delivered, other- 
wise than out of one difficulty into another. ^You 
know,* says he, ^the children of Israel, though they 
rejoiced at first for their being delivered out of Egypt, 
yet rebelled even against God Himself, that delivered 
them, when they came to want bread in the wilderness.* 

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so 
good, that I could not but be very well pleased with 
his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity. 
So we fell to digging all four of us, as well as the 
wooden tools we were furnished with permitted ; and 
in about a month’s time, by the end of which it was 
seed-time, we had gotten as much land cured and 
trimmed up as we sowed twenty-two bushels of barley 
on, and sixteen jars of rice ; which was, in short, all 
the seed we had to spare ; nor, indeed,, did we leave 
ourselves barley sufficient for our own food for the six 
months that we had to expect our crop ; that is to say, 
reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for 
sowing ; for it is not to be supposed it is six months in 
the ground in that country. 

Having now society enough, and our number being 
sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they 
had come, unless their number had been very great, we 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 249 

* 

went freely all over the island^ wherever we found 
occasion ; and as here we had our escape or deliver- 
ance upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at least for 
me, to have the means of it out of mine. To this 
purpose 1 marked out several trees which I thought 
fit for our work, and I set Friday and his father to cut- 
ting them down ; and then 1 caused tlie Spaniard, to 
whom 1 imparted my thought on that affair, to oversee 
and direct their work. 1 showed them with what 
indefatigable pains 1 had hewed a large tree into single 
planks, and I caused them to do the like, till they had 
made about a dozen large planks of good oak, near two 
feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two inches 
to four inches thick. What prodigious labour it took 
up, any one may imagine. 

At the same time, 1 contrived to increase my little 
dock of tame goats as much as 1 could ; and to this 
purpose I made Friday and the ^Spaniard go out one 
day, and myself with F riday the next day, for we took 
our turns, and by this means we got above twenty 
young kids to breed up wdth the rest; for whenever 
we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added them 
to our flock. But above all, the season for curing the 
grapes coming on, I Ciiused such a prodigious quantity 
to be hung up in the'sun, that I believe, had we been 
at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are cured, we 
could have filled sixty or eighty barrels ; and these, 
with our bread, was a great part of our food, and very 
good living too, I assure you ; for it is an exceeding 
nourishing food. 

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order. It 
was not the n^)st plentiful increase 1 had seen in the 
island, but, however, it was enough to answer our end; 
for from our twenty-two bushels of barley we brought 
in and thrashed out above two hundred and twenty 
bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice ; which 
was store enough for our food to the next harvest, 
though all the sixteen Spaniards liad been on shore 
with me ; or if we had been ready for a voyage, it 
would very plentifully have victualled our ship to have 



260 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

carried us to any part of the world, that is to say, of 
America. 

WTien we had thus housed and secured our magazine 
of corn, we fell to w^ork to make more wicker-work, 
viz., great baskets, in which wo kept it ; and the 
Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this part, 
and often blamed me that I did not make some things for 
defence of this kind of work ; but I saw no need of it. 

And now having a full supply of food for all the 
guests I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over 
to the main, to see what he could do with those he had 
left behind him there. 1 gave him a strict charge in 
writing not to bring any man with him who would not 
first swear, in the presence of himself and of the old 
savage, that he would no way injure, fight with, or 
attack the person he should find in the island, who was 
so kind to send for them in order to their deliverance ; 
but that they would stand by and defend him against 
all such attempts, and wherever they went would be 
entirely under and subjected to his commands ; and 
that this should be put in writing, and signed with 
their hands. How we were to have this done, when 
I knew they had neither pen or ink, that indeed was 
a question which we never asked. 

IJnder these instructions, the Spaniard and the old 
savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of the 
canoes which they might be said to come in, or rather 
were brought in, when they came as prisoners to be 
devoured by the savages. 

I gave each of them a musket, with a firelock on it, 
and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging 
them to be very good husbands of both„aad not to use 
either of them but upon urgent occasion. 

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures 
used by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty- 
seven years and some days. I gave them provisions 
of bread and of dried grapes sufficient for themselves 
for many days, and sufficient for all their countrymen 
for about eight days* time ; and wishing them a good 
voyage, I see them go, agreeing with them about a 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 261 


signal they should hang out at their return, by which 
I should know them again, Mien they came back, at 
a distance, before they came on shore. 

They went away with a fair gale on the day that 
the moon was at full, by my account in the month of 
October ; but as for an exact reckoning of days, after 
1 had once lost it, 1 could never recover it again ; nor 
had 1 kept even the number of years so punctually as 
to be sure that 1 was right, though as it proved, when 
I afterwards examined my account, 1 found 1 had kept 
a true reckoning of years. 

It was no less than eight days I had waited for 
them, when a strange and unforeseen accident inter- 
vened, of whicli the like has not perhaps been lieard of 
in history. 1 was fast asleep in my hutch one morn- 
ing, when my man Friday came running in to me, and 
called aloud, ' Master, master, they are come, they 
are come ! ’ 

1 jumped up, and, regardless of danger, 1 went out 
as soon as 1 could get my clothes on, through my little 
grove, whicdi, by the way, was by this time grown to 
be a very thick wood ; I say, regardless of danger, I 
w’ent without my arms, which was not my custom to 
do ; but I was surprised when, turning my eyes to the 
sea, 1 presently saw a boat at about a league and 
halfs distance standing in for the shore, with a 
should er-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind 
blowing pretty fair to bring them in ; also 1 observed 
presently that they did not come from that side which 
the shore lay on, but from the southernmost end of the 
island. Upon this 1 called Friday in, and bid him lie 
close, for tiies^ were not the people we looked for, and 
that we might not know yet whether they were friends 
or enemies. 

In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective- 
glass, to see what 1 could make of them ; and having 
taken the ladder out, 1 climbed up to the top of the 
hill, as 1 used to do when 1 was apprehensive of any- 
thing, and to take my view the plainer, without being 
discovered. 



262 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 
« 

I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye 
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor at about 
two leagues and a halT s distance from me, south- 
south-east, but not above a league and a half from the 
shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to be 
an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an 
English longboat. 

1 cannot express the confusion 1 was in ; though the 
joy of seeing a ship, and one who 1 had reason to 
believe was manned by my own countrymen, and con- 
sequently friends, was such as I cannot describe. But 
yet 1 had some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot 
tell from whence they came, bidding me keep upon my 
guard. In the first place, it occurred to me to consider 
what business an English ship could liave in that part 
of the world, since it was not the way to or from any 
part of the world where the English had any traffic ; 
and I knew there had been no storms to drive them in 
there as in distress ; and that if they were English 
really, it was most probable that they were here upon 
no good design ; and that 1 had better continue as 1 
was, than fall into the hands of thieves and murderers. 

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of 
danger which sometimes are given him when he may 
think there is no possibility of its being real. That 
such hints and notices are given us, I believe few that 
have made any observations of things can deny ; that 
they are certain discoveries of an invisible world, and 
a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt ; and if the ten- 
dency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why 
should we not suppose they are froni some friendly 
agent, whether supreme, or inferior and subordinate, 
is not the question, and that they are given for our 
good ? 

The present question abundantly confirms me in tlic 
justice of this reasoning ; for had 1 not been made 
cautious by this secret admonition, come it from whence 
it will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a far 
worse condition than before, as you will see presently, 

1 had not kept myself long in tliis posture, but 1 saw 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 263 


the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a 
creek to thrust in at, for the ’convenience of landing. 
However, as they did not come quite far enough, they 
did not see the little inlet where I formerly landed 
my rafts ; but run their boat on shore upon the beach, 
at about half a mile from me, which was very happy 
for me ; for otherwise they would have lauded just, as 
1 may say, at my door, and would soon have beaten me 
out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered me of all 
I had. 

When they were on shore, 1 was fully satisfied that 
they were Englishmen, at least most of them ; one or 
two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so. 
There were in all eleven men, whereof three of them J 
found were unarmed, and, as 1 thought, bound ; and when 
the first four or five of them were jumped on shore, 
tliey took those three out of the boat, as prisoners. 
One of the three I could perceive using the most pas- 
sionate gestures of entreaty, affliction, and despair, 
even to a kind of extravagance ; the other two, I could 
perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, and appeared 
concerned indeed, but not to such a degree as the first, 

I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew 
not what the meaning of it should be. Friday called 
out to me in English as well as he could, ^ O master ! 
you see English mans eat prisoner as well as savage 
mans.' * VVhy,' says J, ^Friday, do you think they are 
agoing to eat them then? ' ^ Yes,' says Friday, ^ they will 
eat them.' * No, no,' says I, ^ Friday, I am afraid they 
will murder tlieni indeed, but you may be sure they 
will not eat them.' 

All this while I had no thought of what the matter 
really was, buf stood trembling with the horror of 
the sight, expecting every moment when the three 
prisoners should be killed ; nay, once I saw one of the 
villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the sea- 
men call it, or sword, to strike one of the poor men ; 
and I expected to see him fall every moment, at which 
all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my 
veins. 



254 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


1 wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage 
that was gone with him or that 1 had any way to have 
come undiscovered within shot of them, that I might 
have rescued the three men, for I saw no firearms they 
had among them ; but it fell out to my mind another way. 

After I had observed the outrageous usage of the 
three men by the insolent seamen, 1 observed the 
fellows run scattering about the land, as if they wanted 
to see the country. I observed that the three other men 
had liberty to go also where they pleased ; but they sat 
down all three upon the ground, very pensive, and 
looked like men in despair. 

This put me in mind of the first time when 1 came on 
shore, and began to look about me ; how 1 gave myself 
over for lost ; how wildly 1 looked round me ; what 
dreadful apprehensions I had ; and how I lodged in the 
tree all night, for fear of being devoured by wild beasts. 

As 1 knew nothing that night of tlie supply 1 w’as to 
receive by the providential driving of the ship nearer 
the laud by the storms and tide, by which 1 have since 
been so long nourished and supported ; so these three 
poor desolate men knew nothing how certain of 
deliverance and supply they were, how near it was to 
them, and how effectually and really they were in a 
condition of safety, at the same time that they thought 
themselves lost, and their case desperate. 

So little do we see before us in the world, and so 
much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the 
great Maker of the world, that He does not leave His 
creatures so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst 
circumstances, they have always something to be 
thankful for, and sometimes are nearp.r their deliver- 
ance than they imagine ; nay, are even brought to their 
deliverance by the means by which they seem to be 
brought to their destruction. 

It was just at the top of high-water when these 
people came on shore ; and while partly they stood 
parleying with the prisoners they brought, and partly 
while they rambled about to see what kind of a place 
they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 265 

was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably away, 
leaving their boat aground. 

lliey had left two men in the boat, who, as I found 
afterwards, having drank a little too much brandy, fell 
asleep. However, one of them waking sooner than the 
other, and finding the boat too fast aground for him to 
stir it, hallooed for the rest, who were straggling 
about, upon which they all soon came to the boat ; but 
it was past all their strength to launch her, the boat 
being very heavy, and the shore on that side being a 
soft oozy sand, almost like a quicksand. 

In this condition, like true seamen, who are perhaps 
the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave it 
over, and away they strolled about the country again ; 
and 1 heard one of them say aloud to another, calling 
them off from the boat, ^Why, let her alone, Jack, 
can’t ye ? she will float next tide ’ ; by which I was fully 
confirmed in the main inquiry of what countrymen 
they were. 

All this while I kept myself very close, not once 
daring to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my 
place of observation near the top of the hill ; and very 
glad I was to think how well it was fortified. I knew'^ 
it w'as no less than ten hours before the boat could be 
on float again, and by that time it would he dark, and 
I might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to 
hear their discourse, if they had any. 

In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, as 
before, though with more caution, knowing I had to do 
with another kind of enemy than I had at first. I 
ordered Friday also, whom I had made an excellent 
marksman wi^ his gun, to load himself with arms, I 
took myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three 
muskets. My figure, indeed, was very fierce. I had 
my formidable goat-skin coat on, with the great cap I 
have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols 
in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder. 

It was my design, as 1 said above, not to have made 
any attempt till it was dark ; but about two o'clock, 
being the heat of the day, I found that, in short, they . 



256 ADVENTURES OP ROBIMSON CRUSOE 


w^ere all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I 
thought, were laid dowil to sleep. The three poor 
distressed men, too anxious for their condition to get 
any sleep, were, however, set down under the shelter 
of a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me, 
and, as I thought, out of sight of any of the rest. 

Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and 
learn something of their condition. Immediately I 
marched in the figure as above, my man Friday at a 
good distance behind me, as formidable for his arms as 
1, but not making quite so staring a spectre-like figure 
as 1 did. 

I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and 
then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud to 
them in Spanish, ^ What are ye, gentlemen ? * 

lliey started up at the noise, but were ten times 
more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth 
figure that I made. They made no answer at all, but 
I thought I perceived them just going to fly from me, 
when I spoke to them in English. ^ Gentlemen,’ said 
1, ‘ do not be surprised at me ; perhaps you may have 
a friend near you, when you did not expect it.’ ‘ He 
must be sent directly from heaven then,’ said one of 
them very gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the 
same time to me, ‘ for our condition is past the help of 
man.* ^AIl help is from heaven, sir,’ said I, ^But 
can you put a stranger in the way how to help you, for 
you seem to me to be in some great distress ? 1 saw you 
when you lauded ; and when you seemed to make 
applications to the brutes that came with you, 1 saw 
one of them lift up his sword to kill you.’ 

The poor man, with tears running down his face, 
and trembling, looking like one astonished, returned, 
' Am I talking to God, or man } Is it a real man, or 
an angel ?’ ‘ Be in no fear about that, sir,’ said 1. ^ If 

God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have 
come better clothed, and armed after another manner 
than you see me in. Pray lay aside your fears ; I am 
a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you, you 
see. I have one servant only ; we have arms and 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 257 


ammunition ; tell us freely, can we serve you ? What 
is your case ? * 

^ Our case/ said he, ^ sir, is too long to tell you 
while our murderers are so near ; but in short, sir, 1 was 
commander of that ship ; my men have mutinied 
against me, they have been hardly prevailed on not to 
murder me ; and at last have set mo on shore iu this 
desolate place, with these two men with me, one my 
mate, the other a passenger, where we expected to 
perish, believing the place to be uninhabited, and know 
not yet what to think of it.’ 

'Where are those brutes, your enemies.^* said I. 
' Do you know where they are gone ? ’ ' There they 

lie, sir,’ said he, pointing to a thicket of trees. ' My 
heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard 
you speak. If they have, they will certainly murder 
us all.* 

'Have they any firearms?’ said I. He answered, 
they had only two pieces, and one which they left in 
the boat. ' Well then,’ said I, ' leave the rest to me, 
I see they are all asleep ; it is an ^asy thing to kill 
them all ; but shall we rather take them prisoners ? ’ 
He told me there were two desperate villains among 
them that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to ; 
but if they were secured, he believed all the rest would 
return to their duty.’ I asked him which they were? 
He told me he could not at that distance describe 
them, but he would obey my orders in anything I 
would direct. ' Well,’ says 1, ' let us retreat out of 
their view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will 
resolve further.* So they willingly went back with me, 
till the woods covered us from them. 

' Look you,* sir,* said I, ' if I venture upon your 
deliverance, are you willing to make two conditions 
with me ? * He anticipated my proposals, by telling 
me that both he and the ship, if recovered, should be 
wholly directed and commanded by me in everything ; 
and if the ship was not recovered, he would live and 
die with me in what part of the world soever I would 
send him ; and the two other men said the same. 

8 



258 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

‘Well/ says 1, ‘my conditions are but two. 1. 
lliat while you stay on tdiis island with me, you will 
not pretend to any authority here ; and if 1 put arms, 
into your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give them 
up to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this 
island ; and in the meantime, be governed by my 
orders. 2. That if the ship is, or may be, recovered, 
you will carry me and my man to England, passage 
free. * 

He gave me all the assurances that the invenl ion and 
faith of man could devise that he w'ould comply with 
these most reasonable demands ; and, besides, would 
owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occa- 
sions, as long as he lived. 

‘ U'^ell then," said 1, ‘ here are three muskets for you, 
with powder and ball ; tell me next what you think is 
proper to be done.* He showed all the testimony of 
his gratitude that he was able, but offei ed to be wholly 
guided by me. 1 told him I thought it was hard 
venturing anything ; but the liestmetliod I could think 
of was to hre upon them at once, as they lay ; and if 
any was not killed at the first volley, and offered to 
submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly upon 
God’s providence to direct the shot. 

He said very modestly that he ivasloth to kill them, 
if he could help it ; but that those two were incor- 
rigible villains, and had been the authors of all the 
mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped, we should be 
undone still ; for they would go on board and bring 
the whole ship’s company, and destroy us all. ‘Well 
then,* says I, ‘necessity legitimates my advice, for it 
is the only way to save our lives.* However, seeing 
him still cautious of shedding blood, 1 told him they 
should go themselves, and manage as they found con- 
venient. 

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of 
them awake, and soon after we saw tw^o of them on 
their feet. 1 asked him if either of them were of the 
men who he had said were the heads of the mutiny ? 
He said, ‘No.* ‘Well then,* said 1, ‘you may let 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 269 


them escape ; and Providence seems to have wakened 
them on jmrpose to save themselves. Now/ says 1, 
‘ if the rest escape you, it is your fault.* 

Animated with this, he took the musket I had given 
him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two 
comrades with him, with each man a piece in his hand. 
The two men who were with him going first made some 
noise, at wdiich one of the seamen who was awake 
turned about, and seeing them coming cried out to the 
rest ; but it was too late then, for the moment lie cried 
out they fired ; J mean the two men, the captain wisely 
reserving his own piece. They had so well aimed their 
shot at the men they kne^v, that one of them was killed 
on the spot, and the other very much wounded ; but 
not being dead, he started up upon his feet, and called 
eagerly for help to the other. But the captain stepping 
to him, told him *twas too late to cry for help, he 
should call upon God to forgive his villainy ; and wdth 
that word knocked him down with the stock of his 
musket, so that he never si)oke rnog-e. There were 
three more in the company, and one of them was also 
slightly wounded. By this time I was come ; and 
when they saw their danger, and that it was in vain 
to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told 
them he would spare iheir lives if they would give him 
any assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery they 
had been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to 
him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying 
her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. 1‘hey 
gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that 
could be desired, and he was willing to believe them, 
and spare thjaij lives, wdiich I was not against, only 
1 obliged him to keep them bound hand and foot while 
they were upon the island. 

While this was doing, 1 sent Friday with the cap- 
tain’s mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and 
bring away the oars and sail, which they did ; and 
by and by three straggling men, that were (happily 
for them) parted from the rest, came back upon hear- 
ing the guns fired ; and seeing their captain, who 



260 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

before was their prisoner, now their conqueror, they 
submitted to be bound lalso, and so our victory was 
complete. 

It now remained that the captain and I should in- 
quire into one another’s circumstances. I began first, 
and told him my whole history, which he heard with 
an attention even to amazement ; and particularly at 
the wonderful manner of my being furnished with 
provisions and ammunition ; and, indeed, as my story 
is a whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply. 
But when he reflected from thence upon himself, and 
how 1 seemed to have been preserved there on purpose 
to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he 
could not speak a word more. 

After this communication was at an end, 1 carried 
him and his two men into my apartment, leading them 
in just where I came out, viz., at the top of the house, 
where I refreshed them with such provisions as I had, 
and showed them all the contrivances 1 had made 
during my long, long inhabiting that place. 

All I showed them, all 1 said to them, was perfectly 
amazing ; but above all, the captain admired my forti- 
fication, and how perfectly 1 had concealed my retreat 
with a grove of trees, which, having been now planted 
near twenty years, and the trees growing much faster 
than in England, was become a little wood, and so 
thick, that it was unpassable in any part of it but at 
that one side where I had reserved my little winding 
passage into it. 1 told him this was my castle and my 
residence, but that 1 had a seat in the country, as 
most princes have, whither I could retreat upon occa- 
sion, and 1 would show him that too another time ; but 
at present, our business was to considef how to recover 
the ship. He agreed with me as to that, but told me 
he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for 
that there were still six and twenty hands on board, 
who having entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which 
they had all forfeited their lives to the law, would be 
hardened in it now by desperation, and would carry 
it on, knowing that if they were reduced, they should 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 261 


be brought to the gallows as soon as they came to 
England^ or to any of the Eftglish colonies ; and that 
therefore there would be no attacking them with so 
small a number as we were. 

1 mused for some time upon what he said, and found 
it was a very rational conclusion, and that therefore 
something was to be resolved on very speedily, as well 
to draw the men on board into some snare for their 
surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and 
destroying us. Upon this it presently occurred to me 
that in a little while the ship’s crew, wondering what 
was become of their comrades, and of the boat, would 
certainly come on shore in their other boat to see 
for them ; and that then, perhaps, they might come 
armed, and be too strong for us. lliis he allowed was 
rational. 

Upon this, [ told him the first thing we had to do 
was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so 
that they might not ciirry her off ; and taking every- 
thing out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be 
fit to swim. Accordingly we went on board, took the 
arms w'hich w^ere left on board out of her, and what- 
ever else we found there, which was a bottle of brandy, 
and another of rum, a few biscuit -cakes, a horn of 
powder, and a greablump of sugar in a piece of canvas 
— the sugar was five or six pounds ; all which was very 
welcome to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of 
w’hich 1 had had none left for many years. 

When we had carried all these things on shore (the 
oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were carried 
away before, as above), we knocked a great hole in her 
bottom, th^t ^f they had come strong enough to master 
us, yet they could not carry off the boat. 

Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that we 
could ho able to recover the ship ; but my view was, 
that if they w^ent away without the boat, I did not 
much question to make her fit again to carry us away 
to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends the 
Spaniards in my way ; for I had them still in my 
thoughts. 



262 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had 
first, by main stroiigtli, heaved the boat up upon the 
beach so high tliat the tide would not fleet her olf at 
high-water mark ; and besides, had broke a hole in her 
bottom too big to he quickly stopped, and were sat 
down musing what we should do, we heard the ship 
fire a gun, and saw her make a waft with her ancient 
as a signal for the boat to come on board. But no boat 
stirred ; and they fired several times, making other 
signals for the boat. 

At last, when all their signals and firings proved 
fruitless, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw 
them, by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat 
out, and row towards the sliore ; and we found, as they 
approached, that there was no less than ten men in 
her, and that they had firearms with them. 

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, 
we had a full view of them as they came, and a plain 
sight of the men, even of their faces ; because the tide 
having set them a little to the east of the other boat, 
they rowed up under shore, to come to the same place 
where the other had landed, and where the boat lay. 

By this means, I say, wo had a full view of them, 
and the captain knew' the persons and characters of all 
the men in the boat, of whom he said that there were 
three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led 
into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and 
frighted ; but that as for the boatswain, who, it seems, 
was the chief officer among them, and all the rest, 
they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and 
were no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise ; 
and terribly apprehensive ho was that Uiey would be 
too powerful for us. 

1 smiled at him, and told him that men in our cir- 
cumstances were past the operation of fear ; that seeing 
almost every condition that could be was better than 
that which we were supposed to be in, we ought to 
expect that the consequence, whether death or life, 
would he sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what 
he thought of the circumstances of my life, and whether 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 263 

a deliverance were not worth venturing for? ^And 
where, sir,’ said I, ^ is your*belief of my being pre- 
served here on purpose to save your life, which elevated 
you a little while ago? For my part," said 1, ‘there 
seems to be but one thing amiss in all the prospect of 
it,* ‘What’s that?* says he. ‘Why,’ said 1, ‘*tis 
that, as you say, there are three or four honest fellows 
among them, which should be spared ; had they been 
all of the wicked part of the crew J should have thought 
God’s providence had singled them out to deliver them 
into your hands ; for depend upon it, every man of 
them that comes ashore are our own, and shall die or 
live as they behave to us.’ 

As 1 spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful 
countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him ; so 
we set vigorously to our business. We had, upon the 
first appearance of the boat’s coming from the ship, 
considered of separating our prisoners, and had, indeed, 
secured them etfectually. 

Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured 
than ordinary, I sent with Friday and one of the three 
deli^ered men to my cave, where they were remote 
enough, and out of danger of being heard or dis- 
covered, or of finding their w'ay out of the woods if 
they could have delivered themselves. Here they left 
them bound, but gave them provisions, an<l promised 
them, if they continued there quietly, to give them 
their liberty in a day or two ; but that if they attempted 
their escape, they should be put to death without mercy. 
They promised faithfully to bear their confinement 
with patience, and were very thankful that they had 
such good ,u^age as to have provisions and a light 
left them ; for Friday gave them candles (such as we 
made ourselves) for their comfort ; and they did not 
know but that he stood sentinel over them at the 
entrance. 

The other prisoners had better usage. Two of them 
were kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was 
not free to trust them ; but the other two were taken 
into my service, upon their captain’s recommendation, 



264 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

and upon their solemnly engfaging to live and die with 
us ; so with them and the three honest men we were 
seven men well armed ; and 1 made no doubt we should 
be able to deal M^ell enough with the ten that were 
Ji-coming, considering that the captain had said there 
w'ere three or four honest men among them also. 

As soon as they got to the place where their other 
boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and came 
all on shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I 
was glad to see ; for I was afraid they would rather 
have left the boat at an anchor some distance from the 
shore, with some hands in her to guard her, and so w e 
should not be able to seize the boat. 

Being on shore, the first thing they did they ran all 
to their other boat ; and it w'as easy to see that they 
were under a great surprise to find her stripped, as 
above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in her 
bottom. 

After they had mused a while upon this, they set up 
two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their 
might, to try if^ they could make their companions 
hear ; hut all w^as to no purpose. ITien they came all 
close in a ring, and fired a volley of their small arms, 
which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes made the 
w’oods ring. But it w^as all one ; those in the cave we 
w'ere sure could not hear, and those in our keeping, 
though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no 
answer to them. 

They w'ere so astonished at the surprise of this, that, 
as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on 
board ;igain, to their ship, and let them know there 
that the men were all murdered, and the longboat 
staved. Accordingly, they immediately ‘launched their 
boat again, and gat all of them on board. 

nie captain was terribly amazed, and even con- 
founded at this, believing they would go on board the 
ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades for lost, 
and so he should still lose the ship, which he was in 
hopes we should have recovered ; but he was quickly 
as much frighted the other way. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 265 


They had not been long put off with the boat but we 
perceived them all coming on shore again ; but with 
this new measure in their conduct, which it seems they 
consulted together upon, viz., to leave three men in the 
boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the 
country to look for their fellows. 

lliis was a great disappointment to us, for now we 
were at a loss what to do ; for our seizing those seven 
men on shore would be no advantage to us if we let the 
boat escape, because they would then row away to the 
ship, and then the rest of them would be sure to weigh 
and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would be 
lost. However, we had no remedy but to wait and 
see what the issue of things might present, llie seven 
men came on shore, and the three who remained in the 
boat put her off to a good distance from the shore, and 
came to an anchor to w^ait for them ; so that it was 
impossible for us to come at them in the boat. 

Those that came on shore kept close together, 
marching towards the top of the little hill under which 
my habitation lay ; and we could see them plainly, 
though they could not perceive us. We could have 
been very glad they would have come nearer to us, 
so that we might have fired at them, or that they 
would have gone farther off, that we might have come 
abroad. 

But when they were come to the brow of the hill, 
where they could see a great way into the valleys and 
woods which lay towards the north-east part, and 
where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed 
till they were weary ; and not caring, it seems, to 
venture far^rpm the shore, nor far from one another, 
they sat down together under a tree, to consider of it. 
Had they thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as 
the other party of them had done, they had done the 
job for us ; but they were too full of apprehensions of 
danger to venture to go to sleep, though they could 
not tell what the danger was they had to fear neither. 

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon 
this consultation of theirs, viz., that perhaps tney 



m ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

« 

w^oulil all fire a volley ai^in, to endeavour to make 
tlieir fellows bear, and tliat we should all sally upon 
them, just at the juncture when their pieces were all 
discharged, and they would certainly yield, and we 
should have them without bloodshed. I liked the 
proposal, provided it was done while w^e were near 
enough to come up to them before they could load 
their pieces again. 

Hut this event did not happen, and we lay still a 
long time, very irresolute wlmt course to take. At 
length 1 told them there would be nothing to be done, 
in my opinion, till night ; and then, if they did not 
return to the boat, perhaps w'e might find a way to get 
betw'een them and the shore, and so might use some 
stratagem with them in the boat to get them on shore. 

^V'e waited a great while, though very impatient for 
their removing; and were very uneasy when, after 
long consultations, we saw them start all up, and march 
down toward the sea. It seems they had such dread- 
ful apprehensions upon them of the danger of the 
place, that they resolved to go on board the ship again, 
give their companions over for lost, and so go on with 
their intended voyage with the ship. 

As soon as 1 perceived them go towards the shore, 
1 imagined it to be, as it really was, that they had 
given over their search, and were for going back again ; 
and the captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, 
was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it ; but I 
presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them back 
again, and which answered my end to a tittle. 

I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over 
the little creek westward, towards the j\la<?e where the 
savages came on shore wdien Friday was rescued, and 
as soon as they came to a little rising ground, at about 
half a mile distance, 1 bade them halloo as loud as 
they could, and wait till they found the seamen heard 
them ; that as soon as ever they heard the seamen 
answer them, they should return it again ; and then 
keeping out of sight, take a round, always answering 
when the other hallooed, to draw them as far into the 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 267 


island, and among the woods, as possible, and then 
wheel about again to me bjr such ways as 1 directed 
them. 

'fhey were just going into the boat when Friday and 
the mate hallooed ; and they presently heard them, 
and answering, ran along the shore westward, towards 
the voice they heard, when they were presently stopped 
by the creek, where the water being up, they could 
not get over, and called for the boat to come up and 
set them over, as, indeed, 1 expected. 

When they had set themselves over, I observed that 
the boat being gone up a good way into the creek, 
and, as it were, in a harbour within the land, they 
took one of the three men out of her to go along 
with them, and left only two in the boat, having 
fastened her to the stump of a little tree on the shore. 

ITiat was what I wished for ; and immediately, 
leaving Friday and the captain's mate to their business, 
1 took the rest with me, and crossing the creek out of 
their sight, we surprised the two mep before they were 
aware ; one of them lying on shore, and the other 
being in the boat. The fellow on shore was between 
sleeping and waking, and going to start up. 
captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and 
knocked him down/ and then called out to him in the 
boat to yield, or he was a dead man. 

'JTiere needed very feiv arguments to persuade a 
single man to yield when he saw live men upon him, 
and his comrade knocked down ; besides, this w’as, it 
seems, one of the three who were not so hearty in the 
mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was 
easily persya^ed not only to yield, but afterw^ards to 
join very sincerely with us. 

In the meantime, Friday and the captain’s mate so 
w’ell managed their business with the rest, that they 
drew them, by hallooing and answering, from one 
hill to another, and from one wood to another, till 
they not only heartily tired them, but left them where 
they were very sure they could not reach back to the 
boat before it was dark ; and, indeed, they were 



268 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


heartily tired themselves also by the time they came 
back to us. * 

had nothing now to do but to watch for them 
in the dark^ and to fall upon them^ so as to make sure 
work with them. 

It was several hours after Friday came back to me 
before they came back to their boat ; and we could hear 
the foremost of them_, long before they ranie quite up^ 
calling to those behind to come along, and could also 
hear them answer and complain how lame and tired 
they were, and not able to come any faster ; which was 
very welcome new’s to us. 

At length they came up to the boat ; but *tis im- 
possible to express their confusion when they found 
the boat fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed 
out, and their two men gone. We could hear them 
call to one another in a most lamentable manner, 
telling one another they were gotten into an enchanted 
island ; that either there were inhabitants in it, and 
they should all be^, murdered, or else there were devils 
and spirits in it, and they should be all carried away 
and devoured. 

They hallooed again, and called their two comrades 
by their names a great many times ; but no answer. 
After some time we could see them, by the little light 
there was, run about, wringing their hands like men 
in despair, and that sometimes they would go and sit 
down in the boat to rest themselves ; then come ashore 
again, and walk about again, and so the same thing 
over again. 

My men would fain hav^'e me give them leave to fall 
upon them at once in the dark ; but 1 wa^^ willing to 
take them at some advantage, so to spare them, and 
kill as few of them as I could ; and especially 1 was 
unwilling to hazard the killing any of our own men, 
knowing the other were very w'ell armed. I resolved 
to wait, to see if they did not separate ; and, therefore, 
to make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, 
and ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon 
their hands and feet, as close to the ground as tney 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 269 


could^ that they might not be discovered, and get as 
near them as they could p6ssibly, before they offered 
to fire. 

They had not been long in that posture but that the 
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the 
mutiny, and had now shown himself the most dejected 
and dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards 
them, with two more of their crew. The captain was 
so eager, as having this principal rogue so much in 
his power, that he could hardly have patience to let 
him come so near as to be sure of him, for they only 
heard his tongue before ; but when tliey came nearer, 
the captain and Friday, starting up on their feet, let 
dy at them. 

Tlie boatswain was killed upon the spot ; the next 
man was shot into the body, and fell just by him, 
though he did not die till an hour or two after ; and 
the third ran for it. 

At the noise of the fire I immediately advanced with 
my whole army, which was now ei^ht men, viz., my- 
self, generalissimo ; Friday, my lieutenant-general ; 
the captain and his two men, and the three prisoners 
of war, whom we had trusted with arms. 

We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that 
they could not see Qur number ; and I made the man 
we had left in the boat, who was now one of us, call to 
them by name, to try if I could bring them to a parley, 
and so might perhaps reduce them to terms, which fell 
out just as we desired ; for indeed it was easy to think, 
as their condition then was, they would be very willing 
to capitulate. So he calls out as loud as he could to 
one of theiy,^^ Tom Smith ! Tom Smith ! * Tom Smith 
answered mimed iately, ^ Who's that } Robinson ? * 
For it seems he knew his voice. The other answered, 
^ Ay, ay; for God’s sake, Tom Smith, throw down 
your arms and yield, or you are all dead men this 
moment.’ 

^Who must we yield to? Where are they?’ says 
Smith again. * Here they are,’ says he ; ‘ here’s our 
captain, and fifty men with him, nave been hunting 



270 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


you this two hours ; the boatswain is killed, Will 
Frye is wounded, and I adi a prisoner ; and if you do 
not yield, you are all lost.* 

^ Will they give us quarter then,* says Tom Smith, 
^ and we will yield ? * ‘ I’ll go and ask, if you promise 

to yield,* says Robinson. So he asked the captain, 
and the captain then calls himself out, ^ You, Smith, 
you know my voice, if you lay down your arms immedi- 
ately, and submit, you shall have your lives, all but 
MTll Atkins,* 

Upon tliis Will Atkins cried out, ^For CJod’s sake, 
captain, give me quarter ; what have 1 done ? They 
have been all as bad as 1 * ; which, by the way, was 
not true neither ; for, it seems, this U^ill Atkins was 
the first man that laid hold of the captain when they 
first mutinied, and used him barbarously, in tying 
his hands, and giving him injurious language. IIow- 
ftver, the captain told him he must lay down his arms 
at discretion, and trust to the governor’s mercy ; by 
which he meant me, for they all called me governor. 

In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged 
their lives ; and 1 sent the man that had parleyed 
with them and tw^o more, who bound them all ; and 
then my great army of fifty men, which, particularly 
witli those three, w^ere all but eight, came up and 
seized upon them all, and upon their boat ; only, that 
1 kept myself and one more out of sight for reasons 
of state. 

Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of 
seizing the ship ; and as for the captain, now he had 
leisure to parley wdth them, he expostulated with them 
upon the villainy of tlieir practices with Ijim, and at 
length upon the farther wickedness of \heir design, 
and how certainly it must bring them to misery and 
distress in the end, and perhaps to the gallow^s. 

They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard 
for their lives. As for that, he told them they were 
none of his prisoners, but the commander of the 
island ; that they thought they had set him on shore 
in a barren, uninhabited island ; but it had pleased 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 271 

0 

God so to direct them that the island was inhabited, 
and that the governor was Englishman ; that he 
might diang them all there, if he pleased ; but as he 
had given them all quarter, he supposed he would send 
them to England, to be dealt with there as justice 
required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded by 
the governor to advise to prepare for death, for that 
he would be hanged ijj. the morning. 

Though this W'as fu* a fiction of his owui, yet it had 
its desired effect. Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg 
the captain to intercede with the govern oV for his 
life ; and all the rest begged of liim, for God’s sake, 
that they might not be sent to England. 

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliver- 
ance was come, and that it wmuld be a most easy thing 
to bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting pos- 
session of the ship ; so 1 retired in the dark from them, 
that they might not see wdiat kind of a governor they 
bad, and called the captain to me. When I called, as 
at a good distance, one of the men w^as ordered to 
speak again, and say to the captain, ^ ('aptain, the 
commander calls for you.’ And presently the captain 
replied, ‘Tell his excellency I am just a-coming.* 
This more perfectly amused them, and they all be- 
lieved that the commander was just by with his fifty 
men. 

Upon the captain’s coming to me, 1 told him my 
project for seizing the ship, which he liked of wonder- 
fully well, and resolved to put it in execution the 
next morning. But in order to execute it with more 
art, and secure of success, 1 told him we must divide 
the prisoners, and that he should go and take Atkins 
and two mftrfi of the worst of them, and send them 
pinioned to the cave where the others lay. This was 
committed to Friday and the two men who came on 
shore with the captiiin. 

They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison. 
And it was, indeed, a dismal place, especially to men 
in their condition. The others I ordered to my bower, 
as 1 called it, of which 1 have given a full description ; 



272 ADVENIURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


aad as it was fenced in^ and they pinioned^ the place 
was secure enough, considering they were upon their 
behaviour. 

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who 
was to enter into a parley with them ; in a word, to try 
them, and tell me whether he thought they might be 
trusted or no to go on board and surprise the ship. 
He talked to them of the inj’»'ry done him, of the 
condition they were brought to V' and that though the 
governor had given them quarter for their lives as to 
the present action, yet that if they were sent to England 
they would all be hanged in chains, to be sure ; but 
tliat if they would join in so just an attempt as to 
recover the ship, he would have the governor’s engage- 
ment for their pardon. 

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal 
would be accepted by men in their condition. Ihey 
fell down on their knees to the captain, and promised, 
with the deepest imprecations, that they would be 
faithful to him to the last drop, and that they should 
owe their lives to him, and would go with him all 
over the world ; that they would own him for a father 
to them as long as they lived. 

^Well,’ says the captain, must go and tell the 
governor what you say, and see what 1 can do to bring 
him to consent to it.’ So he brought me an account of 
the temper he found them in, and that he verily 
l>elieved they would be faithful. 

However, that we might be very secure, I told him 
he should go back again and choose out five of them, 
and tell them they might see that he did not want 
men, that he would take out those five to be his 
assistants, and that the governor would keep the other 
two and the three that were sent prisoners to the castle, 
my cave, as hostages for the fidelity of those five ; 
and that if they proved unfaithful in the execution, 
the five hostages should be hanged in chains alive upon 
the shore. 

^rhis looked severe, and convinced them that the 
governor was in earnest However, they had no way 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 273 


left them but to accept it ; and it was now the busi- 
ness of the prisoners, as mftch as of the captain, to 
persuade the other five to do their duty. 

Our strength was now thus ordered for tlie ex- 
pedition. 1. "J'he captain, his mate, and passenger. 
2. I'hen the two prisoners of the first gang, to whom, 
having their characters from the captain, I had given 
their liberty, and trusted them with arms. 3. Tlie 
other two whom 1 had kept till now in my bower, 
pinioned, but upon tlie captain’s motion had now 
released. 4. These five released at last ; so that they 
were tw'elvo in all, besides five ive kept j)risouers in 
the cave for hostages. 

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with 
these hands on board the ship ; for as for me and my 
man Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to 
stir, haAirig scvexi men left behind, and it was employ- 
ment enough for us to keep them asunder and supply 
them with ' ictuals. As to the five in the cave, i 
resolved to keep them fast ; but Fric^^iy went in twice 
a day to them, to supply them with necessaries, and 
I made tlie other two carry provisions to a certain 
distance, where Friday was to tfike it. 

\\’hen 1 showed myself to the two liostfigcs, it was 
with the captain, w}io told them I was the jierson the 
governor had ordered to look after them, and that it 
was the governor’s pleasure they should not stir any- 
where but by my direction ; that if they did, they should 
be fetched into the castle, and be laid in irons ; so that 
as we never suifered them to see me as governor, so J 
now appeared as another person, and spoke of the 
governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon 
all occasions* • 

The captain now had no difficulty before him but to 
furnish his two boats, stop tlie breach of one, and man 
them. He made his passenger captain of one, wdth 
four other men ; and himself, and his mate, and five 
more went in the other ; and they contrived their busi- 
ness very well, for they came up to the ship about mid- 
night. As soon as they came within call of the ship, 



274 ADVE:N1URES of ROBINSON CRUSOE 


he made Robinson hail them, and tell them they had 
brought olF the men and the boat, but that it was a long 
time before they had found them, and the like, holding 
them in a chat till they came to the ship’s side ; when 
tlie captain and the mate entering first, with their 
arms, immediately knocked down the second mate and 
carpenter with the butt-end of their muskets, being 
very faithfully seconded by their men. They secured 
all the rest that were upon the main and quarter-decks, 
and began to fasten the hatches to keep them down 
who were below ; when the other boat and their men 
entering at the forechains, secured the forecastle of the 
ship, and the scuttle which went down into the cook- 
room, making three men they found there prisoners. 

When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the 
captain ordered the mate, with three men, to break into 
the round-house, where the new rebel captain lay, and 
having taken the alarm was gotten up, and with two 
men and a boy had gotten firearms in their hands ; 
and when the mate with a crow split open the door, the 
new captain and his men fired boldly among them, and 
wounded the mate with a musket-ball, which broke bis 
arm, and wounded two more of the men, hut killed 
nobody. 

Tlie mate calling for help, ruslied however into the 
round-house wounded as lie was, and witli his pistol 
shot the new captain through the head, the bullet 
entering at his mouth and came out again behind one 
of his ears, so that he never spoke a word ; upon which 
the rest yielded, and the ship was taken effectually, 
without any more lives lost. 

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain 
oi dered seven guns to be fired, which ^as the signal 
agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success, 
which you may be sure I w’as very glad to hear, having 
sat watching upon the shore for it till near two of the 
clock in the morning. 

Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me 
down ; and it having been a day of great fatigue to me, 
1 slept very sound, till 1 was somethiiigsurprised with the 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 275 


noise of a gun ; and presently^tartiug up, I heard a man 
call me by the name of ^ Governor, Governor,’ and pre- 
sently 1 knew the captain’s voice ; when climbing up to 
the top of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the 
ship, he embraced me in his arms. ^ My dear friend 
and deliverer,* says he, ^ there’s your ship, for she is all 
yours, and so are we, and all that belong to her.’ J 
cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode within 
little more than half a mile of the shore ; for they had 
weiglied her anchor as soon as they were masters of 
her, and the weather being fair, had brought her to an 
anchor just against the mouth of the little creek, and 
the tide being up, the captain had brought the pinnace 
in near the place where 1 at first landed my rafts, and 
so landed just at my door. 

I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise ; 
for 1 saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my 
hands, all things easy, and a large ship just ready to 
carry me away whither I pleased to go. At first, for 
some time, I was not able to answer^ him one word ; 
but as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him, 
or I should have fallen to the ground. 

He perceived the surj)rise, and immediately pulls a 
bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial, 
which he had brought on purpose for me. After J 
had drank it, I sat down upon the ground ; and though 
it brought mo to myself, yet it was a good while before 
I could speak a word to him. 

All this while the poor man was in as great an 
ecstasy as I, only not under any surprise, as I was ; and 
he said a thousand kind tender things to me, to com- 
pose me and ^ir^ng me to myself. But such was the 
flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my spirits into 
confusion.. At last it broke out into tears, and in a 
little while after I recovered my speech. 

Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my 
deliverer, and we rejoiced together. J told him 1 
looked upon him as a man sent from heaven to deliver 
me, and that the whole transaction seemed to be a 
chain of wonders ; that such things as these vrere the 



276 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


testimonies we had of a secret hand of Providence 
g-overniiifr the world, and an evidence that the eyes of 
an infinite Power could search into the remotest corner 
of the world, and send help to the miserable whenever 
He pleased. 

I forj^ot not to lift up my heart in tliaiikfulnoss to 
heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless Him, 
who had not only in a miraculous manner provided for 
one in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condi- 
tion, but from whom every deliverance must always he 
acknowledged to proceed ? 

Wlien we had talked a while, the captain told me he 
had brought me some little refresliment, such as the 
ship afforded, and such as the wretches that had been 
so long his masters had not plundered him of. Upon 
this he called aloud to the boat, and hid his men bring 
the things ashore that w^ero for the governor ; and, 
indeed, it was a present as if 1 had been one, not that 
w^as to be carried away along with them, but as if 1 had 
been to dwell upon the island still, and they were to 
go without me. 

First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of 
excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira 
wine (the bottles held two quarts apiece), two pounds 
of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's 
heef^ and six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and 
about a hundredweight of biscuit. 

He brought me also a box of sugar, a box of ffour, a 
bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and 
abundance of other things ; but besides these, and 
what was a thousand times more useful to me, he 
brought me six clean new shirts, six very good neck- 
cloths, two pair of gloves, one pair ol shoes, a hat, 
and one pair of stockings, and a very good suit of 
clothes of his own, which had been worn but very 
little ; in a word, he clothed me from bead to 
foot. 

It was a ve/y kind and agreeable present, as any one 
may imagine, to one in my circumstances ; hut never 
was anything in the world of that kind so unpleasant, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 277 


awkward, and uneasy, as it^ was to me to wear such 
clotlies at their first puttiiif^ on. 

these ceremonies passed, and after all his good 
things were brouglit into my little apartment, we began 
to consult what was to be done with the prisoners we 
had ; for it was worth considering wdiether we might 
venture to take them away with us or no, esyiecially 
two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible and 
refractory to the last degree ; and the captain said he 
knew they were sucli rogues, that thci e was no oliliging 
them ; and if he did carry them away, it must be in 
ir(»iis, as malefactors, to bo delivered over to justice at 
the first English colony he could come at ; and 1 found 
that the captain himself was very anxious about it. 

Upon this 1 told him that, if he desired it, 1 durst 
undertake to bring the two men he sjioke of to make 
it their envn request that he should leave them ujion 
the island. ^ 1 should be very glad of tliat,' says the 
captain, ‘ with all my heart’ 

^M’ell,’ says I, ^1 will send for iliem up, and talk 
with them for you.’ So I caused Friday and the Iw’o 
hostages, for they were now discharged, their com- 
rades having performed their promise ; 1 say, 1 caused 
tliem to go to the cave and bring up the live men, 
pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keej) them 
there till J came. 

After some time I came thither, dressed in my new 
habit ; and now^ 1 was called governor again. Being 
all met, and the captain w’ith me, 1 caused the men to 
he bronglit before me, and 1 told tliern I liad had a full 
account of tlieir villainous behaviour to the captain, and 
how they hjf,d^ruii away with the ship, and were pre- 
paring to commit farther robberies, but that Providence 
had ensnared them in tlieir own ways, and that they 
\vere fallen into the pit which they liad digged for 
others. 

I let them know that by my direction the sliip had 
been seized, that she lay now in the road, and they 
might see, by and by, that their new captain had 
received the reward of his villainy, for that they might 



278 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

see him hanging at the yard-arm ; that as to them^ 1 
wanted to know what thhy had to say why I should 
not execute them as pirates^ taken in the factj as by 
my commission they could not doubt T had authority 
to do. 

One of them answered in the name of the rest that 
they had nothing to say but this, that when they were 
taken the captain promised them their lives, and they 
humbly implored my mercy. But I told them 1 knew 
not wliat mercy to show them ; for as for myself, I had 
resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had 
taken passage with the captain to go for England. And 
as for the captain, he could not carry them to England 
other than as prisoners in irons, to be tried for mutiny, 
and running away with the ship ; the consequence of 
which, they must needs know, would be the gallows ; 
so that J could not tell which was best for them, unless 
they had a mind to take their fate in the island. If 
they desired that, I did not care, as I had liberty to 
leave it. 1 had ^orne inclination to give them their 
lives, if they thought they could shift on shore. 

They seemed very thankful for it, said they would 
much rather venture to stay there than to be carried 
to England to be hanged ; so 1 left it on that 
issue. 

However, the captain seemed to make some didiculty 
of it, as if he durst not leave them there. Upon this I 
seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him 
that they were my prisoners, not his ; and that seeing 
1 had offered them so much favour, 1 would be as good 
as my word ; and that if he did not think fit to con- 
sent to it, I would set them at liberty, as I l^ound them ; 
and if he did not like it, he might take ^hem again if 
he could catch them. 

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I 
accordingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire 
into the woods to the place whence they came, and 1 
would leave them some firearms, some ammunition, 
and some directions how they should live very w^ell, H 
they thought fit. 



ADVEISrrURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 279 

Upon this 1 prepared to go on board the ship, but 
told the captain that I woulft stay that night to prepare 
my things, and desired him to go on board in the 
meantime, and keep all right in the ship, and send the 
boat on shore the next day for me ; ordering him, in 
the meantime, to cause the new captain, who was killed, 
to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might 
see him. 

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up 
to me to my apartment, and entered seriously into dis- 
course with them of their circumstances. 1 told them 
1 thought they had made a right choice ; that if the 
captain carried them away, they would certainly be 
hanged. I showed them the new captain hanging at 
the yard-arm of the ship, and told them they had 
nothing less to expect. 

When they had all declared their willingness to stay, 
I then told them 1 would let them into the story of my 
living there, and put them into the way of making it 
easy to them. Accordingly I gavp them the whole 
history of the place, and of my coming to it, showed 
them my for tih cations, the way 1 made my bread, 
planted my corn, cured my grapes ; and in a word, all 
that was necessary to make them easy. I told them 
the story also of t;he sixteen Spaniards that were to 
be expected, for whom I left a letter, and made 
them promise to treat them in common with them- 
selves. 

1 left them my firearms, viz., five muskets, three 
fowling-pieces, and three swords. 1 had above a barrel 
and half of powder left ; for after the first year or 
two I usedj)ut little, and wasted none. I gave them a 
description of the way I managed the goats, and direc- 
tions to milk and fatten them, and to make both butter 
and cheese. 

In a word, 1 gave them every part of my own story, 
and 1 told them I would prevail with the captain to leave 
them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden 
seeds, which I told them I would have been very glad 
of. Also I gave them the bag of peas which the captain 



280 ADVENl^URES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


had brought me to eat, and l>a(ie them be sure to sow 
and increase them. * 

llavinp^ done all this, 1 left them the next day, and 
went on board the ship. Wc prepared immediately to 
sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morning 
early two of the live men came swimming to the shi])’s 
side, and making a most lamentable complaint of the 
other three, begged to be taken into the ship for God’s 
sake, for they should be murdered, and begged the 
captain to taketliem onboard, though be banged them 
immediately. 

Upon this the captain pretended to have no power 
without me ; but after s(»me difficulty, and after their 
solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on 
board, and were some time after soundly whipped and 
pickled, after which they proved very honest and quiet 
fellows. 

Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore, 
the tide being up, with the things promised to the men, 
to whicli the captqin, at my intercession, caused tlieir 
chests and clothes to be added, which they took, and 
were vTTy thankful for. I also encouraged them by 
telling them that if it lay in my way to send any vessel 
to take them in, I would not forget them. 

WlitMi I took leave of this island, J carried on board, 
for relics, the great goat-skin cap 1 had made, my 
umbrella, and my parrot ; also I forgot not to take the 
money I formerly mentioned, which had lain by me so 
long useless that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and 
could hardly pass for silver till it had been a little 
rubbed and handled ; as also the money I found in the 
wreck of the Spanish ship. ^ ^ 

And thus 1 left the island, the 19th of December, as 
I found by the ship’s account, in the year lObf), after J 
had been upon it eight and twenty years, two months, 
and nineteen days, being delivered from this second 
captivity the same day of the month that 1 first made 
my escape in the harco-longo, from among the Moors of 
Sallee. 

fn this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 281 

England, tlio 11th of June, in the year 1687^ having 
been thirty and five years absent. 

Whefi I caiDo to England, 1 was as perfect a stranger 
to all the world as if 1 had never been known there. 
My benefactor and faithful steward, whom I had left in 
trust with iny money, was alive, but had had great 
misfortunes in the world, was become a widow the 
second time, and very low in the world. I made her 
easy as to what she owed me, assuring her 1 would give 
her no trouble; but on the contrary, in gratitude to 
her former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her 
as my little stock would afford ; which, at that time, 
w»ould indeed allow me to do but little for lier ; but 
I assured her 1 would never forget her former kind- 
ness to me, nor did 1 forget her when I had sufficient 
to help her, as shall be observed in its place. 

1 went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my 
father was dead, and my mother and all the family 
extinct, except that I found two sisters, and two of 
the children of one of my brothers ; ^nd as I had been 
long ago given over for dead, there had been no 
provision made for me ; so that, in a word, 1 found 
nothing to relieve or assist me ; and that little money 
I had would not do much for me as to settling in the 
world. 

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I 
did not ex])ect ; and this was, that the master of the 
ship whom I had so happily delivered, and by the same 
means saved the ship and cargo, having given a very 
handsome account to the owners of the manner how 1 
had saved the lives of the men, and the ship, they 
invited me Jo meet theni, and some other merchants 
concerned, and all together made me a very handsome 
compliment upon the subject, and a present of almost 
£200 sterling. 

But after making several reflections upon the circum- 
stances of my life, and how little way this would go 
towards settling me in the world, 1 resolved to go to 
Lisbon, and see if I might not come by some informa- 
tion of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and 



282 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


of what was become of my partner, who I had reason 
to suppose had some yehrs now given me over for 
dead. 

With this view 1 took shipping for Lisbon, wliere 1 
arrived in April following ; my man Friday accom- 
panying me very honestly in all these ramblings, and 
proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions. 

AVhen 1 came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, 
and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend the 
captain of the ship who first took me up at sea off 
of the shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and 
had left off the sea, having put his son, who was far 
from a young man, into his ship, and who still used 
the Brazil trade. The old man did not know me ; 
and, indeed, 1 hardly knew him ; but 1 soon brought 
him to my remembrance, and as soon brought myself 
to his remembrance when I told him wdio I was. 

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaint- 
ance, 1 inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation 
and my partner. /Fhe old man told me he had not been 
in the Brazils for about nine years ; but that he could 
assure me that, wlien he came away, my partner M'as 
living ; but the trustees, whom I had joined with liim 
to take cognisance of my part, were both dead. That, 
however, he believed that I would have a very good 
account of the improvement of the plantation ; for that 
upon the general ])elief of my being cast away and 
drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the 
produce of my part of the plantation to the procurator- 
fiscal, who had appropriated it, in case 1 never came to 
claim it, one-third to the king, and two-tliirds to the 
monastery of St. Augustine, to be oxp^er^ed for the 
benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of the 
Indians to the Catholic faith ; but that if 1 appeaj*ed, 
or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it should 
be restored ; only that the improvement, or annual 
production, being distributed to charitable uses, could 
not be restored. But he assured me that the steward 
of the king’s revenue from lands, and the provedidore, 
or steward of the monastery, had taken great care all 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 283 

along* that the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, 
gave every year a faithful Account of the produce, of 
which*they received duly my moiety. 

I asked him if he knew to what height of im]>rove- 
ment he had brought the plantation, and whether he 
thought it might be worth looking after ; or whether, 
on my going thither, I should meet with no obstruction 
to my po'ssessing my just right in the moiety. 

He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree 
the plantation was improved ; but this he knew, that my 
partner was grov/ing exceeding rich upon the enjoying 
but one-half of it ; and that, to the best of his remem- 
brance, he had heard that the king’s third of my part, 
which was, it seems, granted away to some other 
monastery or religious house, amounteii to above two 
hundred moidores a year. That as to my being restored 
to a quiet possession of it, there was no <]uestion to be 
made of that, my partner being alive to witness my title, 
and my name being also enrolled in the register of the 
country. Also he told me that the survivors of my two 
trustees were very fair, honest people, and very wealthy ; 
and he believed 1 would not only have their assistance 
for putting me in possession, but would find a very 
considerable sum of money in their hands for my 
account, being the produce of the firm while their 
fathers held the triist, and before it was given up, as 
above ; which, as he remembered, was for about twelve 
years. 

I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at 
this account, and inquired of the old captain how it 
came to pass that the trustees should thus dispose 
my effects, w'hen he knew that I had made my will, 
and had maae*him, the Portuguese captain, my universal 
heir, etc. 

He tohl me that was true ; but that as there was no 
proof of my being dead, he could not act as executor 
until some certain account should come of my death ; 
and that besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with 
a thing so remote ; that it was true he had registered 
my will, and put in his claim ; and could he have given 



284 ADVExVTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

I 

any account of my bein^ dead or alive, he would have 
acted by procuration, and tlikeii possession of the ingenio, 
so they called the sugar-hou^e, and had g^iven his son, 
who was now at the Brazils, order to do it. 

'But,* says the old man, 'I have one piece of 
news to tell you, wliicdi perhaps niay not be so ac- 
ceptable to you as the rest ; and that is, that believing- 
you were lost, and all the world believing so also, your 
partner and trustees did offer to account to me, in your 
naTiie, for six or eight of the first years of profits, which 
1 received ; but there being at that time,' says he, 

' great disbursements for increasing the works, building 
an ingeniOy and buying slaves, it did not amount to near 
so much as afterwards it produced. However,* says 
the old man, ' 1 shall give you a true account of 
what 1 have received in all, and how I liave disposed 
of it. ’ 

After a few days’ farther conference with this ancient 
friend, he brought me an account of the six first years’ 
income of my plantation, signed by my partner and the 
merchant- trustees, being always delivered in goods, 
viz., tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum, 
molasses, etc., which is the consequence of a sugar-work ; 
and 1 found, by this account, that every year the income 
considerably increased ; but, as above, the disbursement 
being large, the sum at first was small. However, the 
old man let me see that he was debtor to me 470 moidores 
of gold, besides GO chests of sugar, and 15 double rolls 
of tobacco, which were lost in his ship, he having been 
shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years 
after my leaving the place. 

The good man tlien began to cornplaiii^of his mis- 
fortunes, and how he had been obliged to make use of 
my money to recover I)is lossses, and buy him a share 
in a new ship. ^However, my old friend,’ says he, 'you 
shall not want a supply in your necessity ; and as soon 
as my son returns, you shall be fully satisfied.’ 

Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me 
160 Portugal moidores in gold ; and giving me the 
writing of his title to the ship, which his son was gone 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 285 


to tlie Brazils in, of which he was a quarter-part owner, 
and his son another, he putsf them both into my hands 
for sectirity of the rest. 

I was too much moved with tlie honesty and kind- 
ness of the poor man to be able to bear tins ; and re- 
memberinj;' what lie had done for me, how he had 
taken me up at sea, and how generously he had used 
me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a 
friend ho w^as now to me, I could hardly refrain weep- 
ing at what he said to me ; therefore first 1 asked 
liim if his circumstances admitted him to s]>are so much 
money at that time, and if it would not straiten him ? 
He told me tie could not say hut it might straiten him 
a little ; but, however, it was my money, and I might 
want it more than he. 

Everything the good man said was full of affec- 
tion, and 1 could hardly refrain from tears while 
ho spoke ; in short, I took 100 of the moidores, and 
called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them. 
Then 1 rcturne*d lilm the rest, and l(dd him if ever I 
had possession of the plantation, 1 ‘would return the 
other to him also, as, indeed, 1 afterwards did ; and 
that as to the bill of sale of his part in his son’s ship, 
1 would not take it by any means ; but that if 1 
wanted the money, 1 found he was honest enough to 
pay rue ; and if I did not, but came to receive what 
lie gave me reason to expect, 1 would never have a 
penny more from him. 

When this was passed, the old man began to ask me 
if he should put me into a method to make my claim to 
my plantation? 1 told him 1 tliought to go over to 
it myself. He said J might do so if 1 pleased ; hut 
that if I dfd®not, there were ways enough to secure 
my right, and immediately to appropriate the profits to 
iny use ; and as there were ships in the river of Lisbon 
just ready to go away to Brazil, he made me enter my 
name in a public register, with his affidavit, affirming, 
upon oath, that 1 was alive, and that 1 was the same 
person wlio took up the land for the planting the said 
plantation at first. 



286 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

This being regularly attested by a notary, and a pro- 
curation affixed, he directed me to send it, with a letter 
of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintaruce at 
the place, and then proposed my staying with him till 
an account came of the return. 

Never anything was more honourable than the pro- 
ceedings upon this procuration ; for in less than seven 
months 1 received a large packet from the survivors of 
my trustees, the merchants, for whose account I went 
to sea, in which were tlie following particular letters 
and papers enclosed. 

First, there was the account-current of the produce 
of my farm or plantation from the year when their 
fathers had balanced with my old Portugal captein, 
being for six years ; the balance appeared to be 1174 
moidores in my favour. 

Secondly, there was the account of four years more, 
while they kept the effects in their hands, before the 
government claimed the administration, as being the 
effects of a person not to be found, which they called 
civil death ; and the balance of this, the value of the 
plantation increasing, amounted to 88,802 crusadoes, 
which made 3241 moidores. 

Thirdly, there was the prior of the Augustines’ 
account, who had received the profits for above four- 
teen years ; but not being to account for what was 
disposed to the hospital, very honestly declared he had 
872 moidores not distributed, which he acknowledged 
to my account ; as to the king's part, that refunded 
nothing. 

There w^as a letter ot my partner’s, congratulating me 
very affectionately upon my being alive, giving me an 
account how the estate was improved, ana what it pro- 
duced a year, with a particular of the number of squares 
or acres that it contained ; how planted, how many 
slaves there were upon it, and making two and twenty 
crosses for blessings, told me he had said so many Ave 
Marias to thank the blessed Virgin that I was alive ; 
inviting me very passionately to come over and take 
possession of my own ; and in the meantime, to give 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 287 

him orders to whom he should deliver my elFects, if I 
did not come myself ; coiiclifdiiij^ with a hearty tender 
of his ^^riendship, and that of his family ; and sent me 
as a present seven fine leopards’ skins, which he had, it 
seems, received from Africa by some other ship which 
he had sent thither, and who, it seems, had made a 
better voya^^e than 1. He sent me also five chests of 
excellent sweetmeats, and a hundred pieces of gold 
uncoined, not quite so large as moidores. By the same 
fieet; my two merchant trustees shipped me 1200 chests 
of sugar, BOO rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole 
account in gold. 

J might well say now, indeed, tliat the latter end of 
J oh was better than the beginning. It is impossible to 
express the fliitterings of my very heart when 1 looked 
over these letters, and especially when I found all my 
wealth about me ; for as the Brazil ships come all in 
fleets, the same ships which brought my letters brought 
my goods, and the efi'ects were safe in the river before 
the letters came to my hand. In a word, I turned 
pale, and grew sick ; and had not *the old man run 
and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden surprise 
of joy had overset Nature, and 1 had died upon the 
spot. 

Nay, after that / continued very ill, and was so 
some hours, till a physician being sent for, and some- 
thing of the real cause of my illness being known, he 
ordered me to be let blood, after which 1 had relief, 
and grew well ; but J verily believe, if it had not been 
eased by a vent given in that manner to the spirits, 1 
should have died. 

I was now master, aU on a sudden, of above £5000 
sterling ip ftiSney, and had an estate, as 1 might well 
call it, in the Brazils of above a thousand pounds 
a year, as sure as an estate of lands in England ; and 
in a word, 1 was in a condition which I scarce knew 
how to understand, or how to compose myself for the 
enjoyment of it. 

The first thing I did was to recompense my original 
benefactor, my good old captain, who had been first 



288 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in my 
beginning*, and honest tof‘ me at the end. I showed 
him all that was sent me. I told him that, r.ext to 
the providence of Heaven, which disposes all things, 
it was owing to him ; and that it now lay on me to 
reward him, which 1 would do a hundredfold. So 1 
first returned to him the hundred moidores I had 
received of him ; then 1 sent for a notary, and caused 
him to draw up a general release or discharge f(»r the 
470 moidores which he had acknowledged he owed me 
in the fullest and firmest manner possible ; after which 
1 caused a procuratioti to be drawn, empowering him 
to be my receiver of the annual profits of my planta- 
tion, and appointing my partner to account to liim, and 
make the returns by the usual fleets to him in my 
name ; and a clause in the end, being a grant of 100 
moidores a year to him, during his life, out of the 
effects, and 50 moidores a year to liis son after him, for 
his life ; and thus 1 requited my old man. 

I was now to consider which way to steer my course 
next, and what to' do with the estate that Providence 
had til us put into my hands ; and, indeed, 1 had more 
care upon my head now than I had in my silent 
state of life in the island, where I w^anted nolhiitg hut 
what 1 had, and had nothing but what I wanted ; 
wdiereas I had now a great charge upon me, and my 
business wris how to secure it. I had ne’er a cave 
now to hide my money in, or a place where it might 
lie without lock or key till it grew mouldy and tar- 
nished before anybody would meddle with it. On the 
contrary, I knew not where to put it, or whom to trust 
with it. My old patron, the captain, indeed, was 
honest, and that was the only refuge I lirttlv 

In the next place, iriy interest in the Brazils seemed 
to summon me thither ; hut now 1 could not tell how 
to think of going thither till 1 had settled my afiairs, 
and left my effects in some safe hands behind me. At 
first 1 thought of my old friend the widow, who I 
knew was honest, and would be just to me ; but then 
she was in years, and but poor, and for aught I knew 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 289 


miglit be in debt ; so that, in a word, I had no way 
but to go back to England myself, and take my effects 
with m^. 

It was some months, however, before I resolved 
upon this ; and therefore, as 1 had rewarded the old 
captain fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been my 
former benefactor, so I began to think of my poor 
widow, whose liusband had been my first benefactor, 
and she, while it was in her power, my faithful stew^ard 
and instructor. So the first thing 1 did, J got a 
merchant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in 
London, not only to pay a bill, but to go find her 
out, and carry her in money an hundred pounds from 
me, and to talk with her, and comfort her in her 
poverty, by telling her she should, if 1 lived, have a 
further supply. At the same time 1 sent my two sisters 
in the country each of them an hundred pounds, they 
being, though not in want, yet not in very good circum- 
stances ; one having been married, and left a widow ; 
and the other having a husband not .so kind to her as 
he should be. 

But among all my relations or acquaintfiiices, 1 could 
not yet pitch upon one to whom I durst commit the 
gross of my stock, thajt I might go away to the Brazils, 
and leave things safe behind me ; and this greatly per- 
plexed me. 

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils and 
have settled myself there, for 1 was, as it were, 
naturalised to the place. But I had some little scruple 
in my mind about religion, which insensibly drew me 
back, of which I shall say more presently. However, 
it was not rep^ion that kept me from going there for 
tlie present ; and as I had made no scruple of being 
openly of the religion of the country all the while 1 
was among them, so neither did I yet ; only that, 
now and then, having of late thought more of it than 
formerly, when I began to think of living and dying 
among them, I began to regret my having professed 
myself a papist, and thought it might not be the best 
religion to die with. 

u 



290 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

But^ as 1 have said^ this was not the main thing that 
kept me from going to the Brazils, but that really I 
did not know with whom to leave my effects ‘behind 
me ; so 1 resolved, at last, to go to England with it, 
where, if I arrived, 1 concluded 1 should make some 
acquaintance, or find some relations, that would be 
faithful to me ; and accordingly J prejiared to go for 
England with all my wealth. 

In order to prepare things for my going homo, I 
first, the Brazil fleet being just going away, resolved 
to give answers suitable to the just and faithful account 
of things I had from thence. And first, to the prior of 
St. Augustine 1 wrote a letter full of thanks for their just 
dealings, and the offer of the 872 moidores which was 
undisposed of, which I desired might be given, 500 
to the monastery, and 372 to the poor, as the prior 
should direct, desiring the good padre's prayers for me, 
and the like. 

I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, 
with all tlie acknowledgment that so much justice and 
honesty called for. As for sending them any present, 
they were far above having any occasion of it. 

Lastly, 1 wrote to my partner, acknowledging his 
industry in the improving the plantation, and his in- 
tegrity in increasing the stock of the works, giving 
him instructions for his future government of my part, 
according to the powers I bad left with my old patron, 
to whom 1 desired him to send whatever became due 
to me till he should hear from me more particularly ; 
assuring him that it was my intention not only to come 
to him, but to settle myself there for the remainder of 
my life. To this 1 added a very handsome present of 
some Italian silks for his wife and two daughters, for 
such the capliiin's son informed me he had, with two 
pieces of flnc English broadcloth, the best 1 could get 
in Lisbon, five pieces of black baize, and some Flanders 
lace of a good value. 

Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and 
turned all my effects into good bills of exchange, my 
next difficulty was which way to go to England, I 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 291 


had been accustomed euougl^to the sea^ and yet 1 had 
a strai^e aversion to going to England by sea at 
that time ; and though 1 could give no reason for it, 
yet the difficulty increased upon me so much, tliat 
though 1 had once shipped my baggage in order to 
go, yet 1 altered my mind, and that not once, but two 
or three times. 

It is true 1 had been very unfortunate by sea, and 
this might be some of the reason ; but let no man 
slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases 
of such moment. Two of the ships which I had singled 
out to go in, 1 mean more particularly singled out than 
any other, that is to say, so as in one of them to put 
my things OJi board, and in the other to have agreed 
with the captain ; 1 say, two of these ships miscarried, 
viz., one was taken by the Algerines, and the other 
was cast away on the Start, near Torbay, and all the 
people drowned except three ; so that in either of those 
vessels 1 had been made miserable ; and in which most, 
it was hard to say. 

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old 
pilot, to M-hom 1 communicated everything, pressed me 
earnestly not to go by sea, but either to go by land to the 
Groyne, and cross ovpr the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, 
from whence it was but an easy and safe journey 
by land to Paris, and so to C’alais and Dover ; or to 
go up to Madrid, and so all the way by land through 
France. 

In a word, 1 was so prepossessed against my going by 
sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that 1 resolved 
to travel all the way by laud ; which, as I was not in 
haste, and d^d^not value the charge, was by much the 
pleasanter way. And to make it more so, my old captain 
brought an English gentleman, the son of a merchant 
in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me ; after 
which we picked up two more English merchants 
also, and two young Portuguese gentlemen, the last 
going to Paris only ; so that we were in all six of 
us, and five servants ; the two merchants and the two 
Portuguese contenting themselves with one servant 



292 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


between two, to save the charge ; and as for me, I 
got an English sailor to travel with me as a servant, 
besides my man Friday, who was too much a stranger 
to be capable of supplying the place of a servant on 
the road. 

In this manner 1 set out from Lisbon ; and our com- 
pany being all very well mounted and armed, we made 
a little troop, whereof they did me the honour to call 
me captain, as well because I was the oldest man, as 
because 1 had two servants, and indeed was the original 
of the wliole journey. 

As I liave troubled you with none of my sea jour- 
nals, so 1 shall trouble you now with none of my land 
journal ; but some adventures that happened to us in 
this tedious and difficult journey 1 must not omit. 

When we came to Madrid, we being all of us 
strangei*s to Spain, were willing to stay some time to 
see the court of Spain, and to see what was worth 
observing ; but it being the latter part of the summer 
we hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the 
middle of October ; but when we came to the edge of 
Navarre, we were alarmed at several towns on the way 
with an account that so much snow was fallen on the 
French side of the mountains, that several travellers 
were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having 
attempted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on. 

When we came to I’ampeluna itself, we found it so 
indeed ; and to me, that had been always used to a hot 
climate, and indeed to countries where we could scarce 
bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferable ; nor 
indeed was it more painful than it was sui’prising to 
come but ten days before out of the Old^ Castile, where 
the weather was not only warm, but very hot, and im- 
mediately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains 
so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and 
to endanger benumbing and perishing of our lingers 
and toes. 

Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the 
mountains all covered with snow, and felt cold weather, 
which he had never seen or felt before in his life. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 293 

To rneud the matter, when we came to Pampeluna 
it continued snowing with io much violence, and so 
long, that the people said winter was come before its 
time ; and the roads, which were difficult before, were 
now quite impassable ; for, in a word, the snow lay in 
some j)laces too thick for us to travel, and being not 
hard frozen, as is the case in northern countries, 
there was no going without being in danger of being 
buried alive every step. We stayed no less than twenty 
days at Pampeluna ; when seeing the winter coming on, 
and no likelihood of its being better, for it was the 
severest winter all over Europe that had been knowui 
in the memory of man, I proposed that we should all 
go away to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for 
Bordeaux, which was a very little voyage. 

But while we were considering this, there came in 
four French gentlemen, who having been stop])ed on 
the French side of the passes, as we were on the 
Spanish, had found out a guide, who, traversing the 
country near the head of Languedoc, had brought 
them over the mountains by such ways, that they were 
not much incommoded with the snow ; and where 
they met with snow in any quantity, they said it was 
frozen hard enough to bear them and their horses. 

We sent for this’ guide, who told us he would 
undertake to carry us the same way with no hazard 
from the snow, provided we were armed sufficiently 
to protect us from wild beasts ; for he said, upon these 
great snows it was frequent for some wolves to show 
themselves at the foot of the mountains, being made 
ravenous for M^ant of food, the ground being covered 
with snow. W e told him we were well enough prepared 
for such erSafures as they were, if he would ensure us 
from a kind of two-legged wolves, which, w'e were told, 
we were in most danger from, especially on tlie French 
side of the mountains. 

He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind in 
the way that we were to go ; so we readily agreed to 
follow him, as did also twelve other gentlemen, with 
their servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I 



294 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come 
hack again. 

Accordingly we all set out from Pampeluna, with 
our guide, on the 1 5th of November ; and, indeed, I 
was surprised when, instead of going forward, he came 
directly back with us on the same road that we came 
from Madrid, above twenty miles ; when being passed 
two ri\'ers, and come into the plain country, we found 
ourselves in a warm climate again, where the country 
was pleasant, and no snow to be seen ; but on a 
sudden, turning to his left, he approached the moun- 
tains another way ; and though it is true the hills and 
precipices looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours, 
such meanders, and led us by such winding ways, that 
we were insensibly passed the height of the mountains 
without being much encumbered with the snow ; and 
all on a sudden he showed us the pleasant fruitful 
provinces of Languedoc and Oascoign, all green and 
flourishing, though, indeed, it was at a great distance, 
and we had some trough way to pass yet. 

We were a little uneasy, howev er, when we found 
it snowed one whole day and a night so fast, that we 
could not travel ; but he bid us be easy, we should 
soon be past it all. We found, indeed, that we 
began to descend every day, and to come more north 
than before ; and so, depending upon our guide, we 
went on. 

It was about two hours before night when, our 
guide being something before us, and not just in sight, 
out rushed three monstrous wolves, and after them a 
bear, out of a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood. 
Two of the wolves flew upon the guid^ ^nd had he 
been half a mile before us he had been devoured 
indeed before we could have helped him. One of 
them fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked 
the man with that violence, that he had not time, 
or not presence of mind enough, to draw his pistol, 
but hallooed and cried out to us most lustily. My 
man Friday being next to me, I bid him ride up, 
and see what was the matter. As soon as Friday 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 295 


came iu sight of the man. he hallooed as loud as 
toother. ‘ O master ! O master ! * but, like a bold 
fellow/ rode directly up to the poor man, and with his 
pistol shot the wolf that attacked him into the head. 

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man 
Friday, for ne having been used to that kind of 
creature in his country, had no fear upon him, hut 
went close up to him and shot him, as above ; whereas 
any of us would have fired at a farther distance, and 
have perhaps either missed the wolf^ or endangered 
shooting the man. 

But it was enough to have terrified a holder man 
than I ; and, indeed, it alarmed all our company, 
when, with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on 
both sides the dismallest howling of wolves ; and the 
noise, redoubled by the echo of the mountains, that it 
was to iia as if there had been a prodigious multitude 
of them ; and perhaps indeed there was not such a few 
as that we had no cause of apprehensions. 

However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other 
that had fastened upon the horse left him immediately 
and fled, having happily fastened upon his head, where 
the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth, so that 
he had not done him much hurt. The man indeed 
was most hurt ; for the raging creature had bit him 
twice, once on the arm, and the other time a little 
above his knee ; and he was just as it were tumbling 
down by the disorder of his horse, when Friday came 
up and shot the wolf. 

It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's 
pistol we all mended our pace, and rid up as fast as 
the way, w^j^.h was very difiicult, would give us leave, 
to see what was the matter. As soon as we came 
clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw 
clearly what had been the case, and how Friday had 
disengaged the poor guide, though we did not presently 
discern what kind of creature it was he had killed. 

But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in 
such a surprising manner, as that which followed 
between Friday and the bear, which gave us all, though 



296 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


at first we were surprised and afraid for him, the greatest 
diversion imaginable. As'the bear is a heavy, clumsy 
creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does, who 
is swift and light, so he has two particular qualities, 
which generally are the rule of his actions : first, as to 
men, who are not his proper prey ; 1 say, not his 
proper prey, because, though 1 cannot say what exces- 
sive hunger might do, which ^vas now their case, the 
ground being all covered with snow ; but as to men, 
he does not usually attempt them, unless they first 
attack him. On the contrary, if you meet him in the 
woods, if you don’t meddle with him, he won’t meddle 
with you ; but then you must take care to be very 
civil to him, and give him the road, for he is a very 
nice gentleman. He won’t go a step out of his way for 
a prince ; nay, if you are really afraid, your best way 
is to look another way, and keep going on ; for some- 
times if you stop, and stand still, and look steadily at 
him, he takes it for an affront ; but if you throw or 
toss anything at him, and it hits him, though it were 
but a hit of a stick*^ as big as your finger, he takes it for 
an affront, and sets all his other business aside to pur- 
sue his> revenge ; for he will liave satisfaction in point 
of honour. That is his first quality ; the next is, that 
if he be once affronted, he wdll never leave you, night 
or day, till he has his revenge, but follows, at a gv)od 
round rate, till he overtakes you. 

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when 
we came up to liim he was helping him off from his 
horse ; for the man w^as both hurt and frighted, and 
indeed the last more than the first ; when, on the 
sudden, we spied the bear come out of the wood, and 
a vast monstrous one it was, the biggest; uy far that 
ever I saw. We were all a little surprised when we 
saw’ liim ; but when Friday saw him, it was easy to see 
joy and courage in the fellow^’s countenance. ‘ O ! O ! 
O ! ’ says Friday, three times pointing to him. ^ O 
master ! you give me te leave ; me shakee te hand with 
him ; me make you good laugh.’ 

I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased. ^You 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 297 


fool you/ says I, 'he will eat you up/ 'Eatee me 
up ! eatoe me up ! * says Friday, twice over again ; 
'me ejftee him up ; me make you good laugh ; you all 
stay here, me show you good laugh/ So down he sits, 
and gets his boots off in a moment, and put on a pair 
of })umps, as we call the flat shoes they wear, and 
which he had in his pocket, gives my other servant his 
horse, and with his gun away he flew, swift like the 
wind. 

llie bear was w’alking softly on, and offered to 
meddle with nobody till Friday, coming pretty near, 
calls to him, as if the bear could understand him, 
'Hark ye, bark ye/ says Friday, 'me speakee wit 
you.’ We followed at a distance ; for now being come 
<lown on the Gascoign side of tbe mountains, we were 
entered a vast great forest, where the country was 
plain and pretty open, though many trees in it scattered 
here and there. 

Friday, w^ho had, as we say, the heels of the bear, 
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great stone 
and throws at him, and hit him just on the head, 
but did him no more harm than if he had thrown it 
against a wall. But it answered Friday’s end, for the 
rogue was so void of^fear, that he did it purely to make 
the bear follow him, and show us some laugh, as he 
called it. 

As soon as the bear felt tbe stone, and saw him, he 
turns about, and comes after him, taking devilish long 
strides, and shuffling along at a strange rate, so as 
would have put a horse to a middling gallop. Away 
runs Friday, and takes his course as if he run towards 
us for help : so we all resolved to fire at once upon the 
bear, and udliver my man ; though I was angry at 
him heartily for bringing the bear back upon us, when 
he was going about his own business another way ; 
and especially I was angry that he had turned the 
bear upon us, and then run away ; and I called out, 
'You dog,’ said I, 'is this your making us laugh? 
Come away, and take your horse, that we may shoot 
the creature.’ He hears me, and cries out, ' No shoot, 



m ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

no shoot ; stand still, you get much laugh.* And as 
the nimble creature run two feet for the beast*s one, he 
turned on a 'sudden, on one side of us, and seeing a 
great oak tree fit for his purpose, he beckoned to us 
to follow ; and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up 
the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground, at 
about five or six yards from the bottom of the 
tree. 

The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at 
a distance. The first thing ho did, he stopped at the 
gun, smelt to it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into 
the tree, climbing like a cat, though so monstrously 
heavy. I was amazed at the folly, as 1 thought it, of 
my man, and could not for my life see anything to 
laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up the tree, we 
all rode nearer to him. 

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got 
out to the small end of a large limb of the tree, and 
the bear got about half way to him. As soon as the 
bear got out to that part where the limb of the tree 
was weaker, * Ha ! * says he to us, ^ now you see me 
teachee the bear dance.’ So he falls a -jumping and 
shaking the bough, at which the bear began to totter, 
but stood still, and began to look behind him, to see 
how he should get back. Then, indeed, we did laugh 
heartily. But Friday had not done with him by a 
great deal. MHien he sees him stand still, he calls out 
to him again, as if he had supposed the bear could 
speak English, * What, you no come farther ? pray 
you come farther*; so be left jumping and shaking 
the tree ; and the bear, just as if he had understood 
what he said, did come a little farther fhen he fell 
a-jumping again, and the bear stopped again. 

We thought now was a good time to knock him on 
the head, and I called to Friday to stand still, and we 
would shoot the bear ; but he cried out earnestly, ^ O 
pray ! O pray ! no shoot, me shoot by and then * ; he 
would have said by and by. However, to shorten the 
story, Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so 
ticklish, that we had laughing enough indeed, but still 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 299* 

could not imagine what the fellow would do ; for first 
we thought he depended upon shaking the bear off; 
and we found the bear was too cunning for that too ; 
for he would not go out far enough to be thrown down, 
but clings fast with his great broad claws and feet, so 
that we could not imagine what would be the end of it, 
and where the jest would be at last. 

But Friday put us out of doubt quickly ; for seeing 
the bear cling fast to the bough, and that he would not 
be persuaded to come any farther, ^Well, well,' says 
Friday, * you no come farther, me go, me go ; you no 
come to me, me go come to you ’ ; and upon this he 
goes out to the smallest end of the bough, where it 
would bend with his weight, and gently lets himself 
down by it, sliding down the bough till he came near 
enough to jump down on his feet, and away he ran to 
his gun; takes it up, and stands still. 

^Well,' said I to him, ^Friday, what will you do 
now? Why don't you shoot him?' ^ No shoot,* 
says Friday, * no yet ; me shoot nojw, me no kill ; me 
stay, give you one more laugh.* And, indeed, so he 
did, as you will see presently ; for when the bear sees 
his enemy gone, he comes back from the bough where 
he stood, but did it .mighty leisurely, looking behind 
him every step, and coming backward till he got into 
the body of the tree ; then with the same hinder end 
foremost he comes down the tree, grasping it with his 
claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leisurely. 
At this juncture, and just before he could set his hind 
feet upon the ground, Friday stepped up close to him, 
clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot 
him dead g stone. 

Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not 
laugh ; and when he saw we were pleased by our looks, 
he falls a-laughing himself very loud. ^ So we kill 
bear in my country,* says Friday. ' So you kill them?* 
says I ; ^ why, you have no guns.' ^No,* says he, ^no 
gun, but shoot great much long arrow.* 

Tliis was indeed a good diversion to us ; but we were 
still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt, 



300 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

< 

and what to do we hardly knew. Tlie howling^ of wolves 
ran much in my head ; ilnd indeed^ except the noise 
I once heard on the shore of Africa, of which *'1 have 
said something already, I never heard anything that 
filled me with so much horror. 

These things, and the approach of night, called us 
off, or else, as Friday would have had us, we should 
certainly have taken the skin of this monstrous creature 
off, which was worth saving ; but we had three leagues 
to go, and our guide hastened us ; so we left him, and 
went forward on our journey. 

The ground was still covered wdth snow, though not 
so deep and dangerous as on the mountains ; and the 
ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come 
down into the forest and plain country, pressed by 
hunger, to seek for food, and had done a great deal 
of mischief in the villages, where they surpsised the 
country people, killed a great many of their sheep and 
horses, and some people too. 

We had one dangerous j)lace to pass, which our 
guide told us if there were any more wolves in the 
country we should find them there ; and this was in a 
small plain, surrounded with woods on every side, and 
a long narrow defile, or lane, which we were to pass 
to get through the wood, and then we should come to 
the village where we were to lodge. 

It was within half an hour of sunset when we 
entered the first wood, and a little after sunset when 
we came, into the plain. We met with nothing in the 
first wood, except that, in a little plain within the 
wood, whicdi was not above two furlongs over, we saw 
five great wolves cross the road, full speed, one after 
another, as if they had been in chase 6f*some prey, 
and had it in view ; they took no notice of us, and 
were gone and out of our sight in a few moments. 
Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was a wretched 
faint-hearted fellow, bid us keep in a ready posture, 
for he believed there were more wolves a-coming. 

We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us ; 
but we^^saw no more wolves till we came through that 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 301 

wood, which was near half a league, and entered the 
plain. As soon as we came into the plain, we had 
occasicm enough to look about us. The first object w^e 
met with was a dead horse, that is to say, a poor horse 
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of 
them at work ; we could not say eating of him, but 
picking of his bones rather, for they had eaten up all 
the flesh before. 

We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast, 
neither did they take much notice of us. Friday 
would have let fly at them, but 1 would not suffer him 
by any means, for I found we were like to have more 
business upon our hands than we were aware of. We 
were not gone half over the plain, but we began to 
hear the wolves howl in the wood on our left in a 
fi-ightful manner, and presently after we saw about a 
hundred coming on directly towards us, all in a body, 
and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army 
drawn up by experienced officers. 1 scarce knew in 
what manner to receive them, but found to draw^ our- 
selves in a close line was the only way ; so we formed 
in a moment ; but that we might not have too much 
interval, 1 ordered that only every other man should 
fire, and that the others who had not fired should 
stand ready to give th^ a second volley immediately, 
if they continued to advance upon us ; and that then 
those who had fired at first should not pretend to load 
their fusees again, but stand ready with every one a 
pistol, for we were all armed with a fusee and a pair 
of pistols each man ; so we were, by this method, able 
to fire six volleys, half of us at a time. However, at 
present we had no necessity ; for upon firing the first 
volley the %rtemy made a full stop, being terrified as 
well with the noise as with the fire. Four of them 
being shot into the head, dropped ; several others were 
wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could see by 
the snow. 1 found they stopped, but did not imme- 
diately retreat ; whereupon, remembering that 1 had 
been told that the fiercest creatures were terrified at 
the voice of a man, I caused all our company to halloo 



302 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON ORUSOE 


as loud as we could ; aud 1 found the notion not alto- 
gether mistaken, for upoti our shout they began to 
retire and turn about. Then 1 ordered a Second 
volley to be fired in their rear, which put them to the 
gallop, and away they went to the woods. 

This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again ; and 
that we might lose no time, we kept going. But wo 
had but little more than loaded our fusees, and put 
ourselves into a readiness, when we heard a terrihle 
noise in the same wood, on our left, only that it was 
farther onward, the same way we were to go. 

The night was coming on, aud the light began to be 
dusky, which made it worse on our side ; but the noise 
increasing, we could easily perceive that it was the 
howling and yelling of those hellish creatures ; and on 
a sudden, we perceived two or three troops of wolves, 
one on our left, one behind us, and one on our front, 
so that we seemed to be surrounded with them. How- 
ever, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our way 
forward as fast as we could make our horses go, which, 
the way being very rough, was only a good large trot, 
aud in this manner we came in view of the entrance ot 
a wood, through which we w^ere to pass, at the farther 
side of the plain ; but we were greatly surprised when, 
coming nearer the lane, or pass, we saw a confused 
number of wolves standing just at the entrance. 

On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we 
heard the noise of a gun, and looking that way, out 
rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, 
fiying like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves 
after him, full speed ; indeed, the horse had the heels 
of them ; but as we supposed that he could not hold it 
at that rate, we doubted not but they VoJld get up 
with him at last, and no question but they did. 

But here we had a most horrible sight ; for riding 
up to the entrance where the horse came out, we 
found the carcass of another horse and of two men, 
devoured by the ravenous creatures ; and one of the 
men was no doubt the same whom we heard fire the 
gun, for there lay a gun just by him fired off ; but as 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE m 


to the man, his head and the upper part of his body 
was eaten up. 

Thift filled us with horror, and we knew not what 
course to take ; but the creatures resolved us soon, for 
they gathered about us presently in hopes of prey, and 
I verily believe there were three hundred of them. It 
happened very much to our advantage that, at the 
entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there 
lay some large timber-trees, which had been cut down 
the summer before, and I suppose lay there for carriage. 
I drew my little troop in among those trees, and plac- 
ing ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I advised 
them all to light, and keeping that tree before us for 
a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts, 
enclosing our horses in the centre. 

We did so, and it was well we did; for never was 
a more furious charge than the creatures made upon 
us in the place. Tliey came on us with a growling 
kind of a noise, and mounted the piece of timber, 
which, as 1 said, was our breastwork, as if they were 
only rushing upon their prey ; and this fury of theirs, 
it seems, was principally occasioned by their seeing 
our horses behind us, which was the prey they aimed 
at, 1 ordered our men to fire as before, every other 
man ; and they took, their aim so sure, that indeed 
they killed several of the wolves at the first volley ; 
but there was a necessity to keep a continual firing, for 
they came on like devils, those behind pushing on 
those before. 

When we had fired our second volley of our fusees, 
we thought they stopped a little, and 1 hoped tliey 
would have gone off ; but it was but a moment, for 
others canie* forward again ; so w^e fired two volleys 
of our pistols ; and 1 believe in these four firings we 
had killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed 
twice as many, yet they came on again. 

I was loth to spend our last shot too hastily ; so I 
called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was 
better employed, for with the greatest dexterity 
imaginable he had charged my fusee and his own 



304 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

while we were engaged ; but as 1 said, I called my 
other man, and giving him a horn of powder, I bade 
him lay a train all along the piece of timber, and let it 
be a large train. He did so, and had but just time to 
get away when the wolves came up to it, and some 
were got up upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged 
pistol close to the powder, set it on fire. Those that 
were upon the timber were scorched with it, and six or 
seven of them fell, or rather jumped, in among us with 
the force and fright of the fire. We despatched these 
in an instant, and the rest were so frighted with the 
light, which the night, for it was now very near dark, 
made more terrible, that they drew back a little; 
upon which 1 ordered our last pistol to be fired off 
in one volley, and after that we gave a shout. Upon 
this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately 
upon near twenty lame ones, whom we found struggling 
on the ground, and fell a«cutting them with our swords, 
which answered our expectation ; for the crying and 
howling they made was better understood by their 
fellows, so that they all fled and left us. 

We had, first and last, killed about threescore of 
them, and had it been daylight we had killed many 
more, 'flie field of battle being thus cleared, we made 
forward again, for we had still near a league to go. 
We heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the 
woods as we went several times, and sometimes we 
fancied we saw some of them, but the snow dazzling 
our eyes, we were not certain. So in about an hour 
more we came to the town where we were to lodge, 
which we found in a terrible fright, and all in arms ; 
for it seems that the night before the wolves and some 
bears had broke into the village in the ni^dt, and put 
them in a terrible fright; and they were obliged to 
keep guard night and day, but especially in the night, 
to preserve their cattle, and, indeed, their people. 

Ihe next morning our guide was so ill, and his 
limbs swelled with the rankling of his two wounds, 
that he could go no farther ; so we were obliged to 
take a new guide there, and go to Toulouse, where 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 305 

we found a warm climate, a fruitful, pleasant country, 
and no snow, no wolves, or Anything like them. But 
when ^e told our story at Toulouse, they told us it 
was nothing but what was ordinary in the great forest 
at the foot of the mountains, especially when the snow 
lay on the ground ; but they inquired much what kind 
of a guide we had gotten that would venture to bring 
us that way in such a severe season, and told us it was 
very much we were not all devoured. When we told 
them how we placed ourselves, and the horses in the 
middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it was 
fifty to one but we had been all destroyed ; for it was 
the sight of the horses which made the wolves so 
furious, seeing their prey ; and that, at other times, 
they are really afraid of a gun ; but the being excessive 
hungry, and raging on that account, the eagerness to 
come at the horses had made them senseless of danger ; 
and that if we had not, by the continued fire, and at 
last by the stratagem of the train of powder, mastered 
them, it had been great odds but thai we had been torn 
to pieces ; whereas had we been content to have sat 
still on horseback, and fired as horsemen, they would 
not have taken the horses for so much their own, when 
men were on their backs, as otherwise ; and withal 
they told us, that at fast, if we had stood all together, 
and left our horses, they would have been so eager to 
have devoured them, that we might have come off safe, 
especially having our firearms in our hands, and being 
so many in number. 

For my part, 1 was never so sensible of danger in 
my life ; for seeing above three hundred devils come 
roaring and ^pen-mouthed to devour us, and having 
nothing to Si el ter us or retreat to, I gave myself over 
for lost ; and as it was, I believe J shall never care to 
cross those mountains again. I think 1 would much 
rather go a thousand leagues by sea, though 1 were sure 
to meet with a storm once a week. 

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my 
passage through France ; nothing but what other 
travellers have given an account of with much more 

X 



306 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


advantage than I can. I travelled from Toulouse to 
Paris, and without any considerable stay came to Calais, 
and landed safe at Dover, the 14th of January, after 
having had a severe cold season to travel in. 

1 was now come to the centre of my travels, and 
had in a little time all my new-discovered estate safe 
about me, the bills of exchange which I brought with 
me having been very currently paid. 

My principal guide and privy councillor was my good 
ancient wiciow ; wdio, in gratitude for the money 1 had 
sent her, thought no pains too much, or care too great, 
to employ for me ; and 1 trusted her so entirely with 
everything, that J was perfectly easy as to the security 
of my effects ; and indeed 1 was very happy from my 
beginning, and now to the end, in the unspotted in- 
tegrity of this good gentlewoman. 

And now 1 began to think of leaving my effects with 
this woman and setting out for Lisbon, and so to the 
Brazils. But now another scruple came in my way, 
and that vras religion ; for as 1 had entertained some 
doul)ts about the Roman religion even while I was 
abroad, especially in my state of solitude, so I knew 
there was no going to the Brazils for me, much less 
going to settle there, unless I resolved to embrace the 
Roman Catholic religion without any reserve ; unless 
on the other hand I resolved to be a sacrifice to my 
principles, be a martyr for religion, and die in the 
Inquisition. So 1 resolved to stay at home, and if 1 
could find means for it, to dispose of my plantation. 

To this purpose 1 wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, 
who in return gave me notice that he could easily 
dispose of it there ; but that if 1 thought fit to give 
him leave to offer it in my name to the t^o^ merchants, 
the survivors of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, 
who must fully understand the value of it, who lived 
just upon the spot, and whom 1 knew were very rich, 
so that he believed they would he fond of buying it, he 
did not doubt but 1 should make 4000 or 5000 pieces 
of eight the more of it. 

Accordingly 1 agreed, gave him order to offer it to 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 807 


them, and he did so ; and in about eight months more, 
the ship being then returned, he sent me an account 
that tliey had accepted the offer, and had remitted 
33,000 pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at 
Lisbon to pay for it. 

In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form 
which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man, 
who sent me bills of exchange for 32,800 pieces of eight 
to me, for the estate ; reserving the payment of 100 
moidores a year to him, the old man, during his life, 
atid 50 moidores afterwards to his son for his life, 
>vhich I had promised them, which the plantation was 
to make good as a rent - charge. And thus I have 
given the first part of a life of fortune and adventure, 
a life of Providence’s chequer-work, and of a variety 
which the world will seldom bo able to show the like 
of ; beginning foolishly, but closing much more happily 
than any part of it ever gave me leave so much as to 
hope for. 

Any one would think that in this state of complicated 
good fortune I was past running any more hazards ; 
and so indeed I had been, if other circumstances had 
concurred. But 1 was inured to a wandering life, had 
no family, not many relations, nor, however rich, had 
I contracted much Acquaintance ; and though I had 
sold my estate in the Brazils, yet 1 could not keep the 
country out of my head, and had a great mind to he 
upon the wing again ; especially I could not resist the 
strong inclination 1 had to see my island, and to know 
if the poor Spaniards were in being there, and how the 
rogues 1 left there had used them. 

My true fjjend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me 
from it, ana so far prevailed with me, that for almost 
seven years she prevented my running abroad, during 
which time I took my two nephews, the children of one 
of my brothers, into my care. The eldest having 
something of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and 
gawe him a settlement of some addition to his estate 
after my decease. '^The other I put out to a captain of 
a ship, and after five years, finding him a sensible. 



308 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 

bold; enterprising young fellow, 1 put him into a good 
ship, and sent him to sea V and this young fellow after- 
wards drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures 
myself. 

In the meantime, I in part settled myself here ; for, 
first of all, 1 married, and that not either to my dis- 
advantage or dissatisfaction, and had three children, 
two sons and one daughter ; but my wife dying, and 
my nephew coming home with good success from a 
voyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and 
his importunity, prevailed, and engaged me to go in 
his ship as a private trader to the East Indies. This 
was in the year 1()D4. 

In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island, 
saw my successors the Spaniards, had tlie whole story 
of their lives, and of the villains 1 left there ; how at 
first they insulted the poor Spaniards, how they after- 
wards agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how at 
last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence with 
them ; how they were subjected to the Spaniards ; how 
honestly the Spaniards used them ; a history, if it were 
entered into, as full of variety and wonderful accidents 
as my own part ; particularly also as to their battles 
with the Caribbeans, who landed several times upon 
the island, and as to the improvement they made upon 
the island itself ; and how five of them made an attempt 
upon the mainland, and brought away eleven men and 
five women prisoners, by which, at my coming, I found 
about twenty young children on the island. 

Here I stayed about twenty days, left them supplies 
of all necessary things, and particularly of arms, 
powder, shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen, which 
I brought from England with me, viz. , a l;afi''penter and 
a smitL 

Besides this, 1 shared the island into parts with 
them, reserved to myself the property of the whole, 
but gave them such parts respectively as they agreed 
on ; and having settled all things with them, and 
engaged them not to leave the place, I left them there. 

From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 309 

I sent a bark, which I bought there, with more people, 
to the island ; and in it, betHdes other supplies, I sent 
seven Women, being such as I found proper for service, 
or for wives to such as would take them. As to the 
Englishmen, I promised them to send them some 
women from England, with a good cargo of neces- 
saries, if they would apply themselves to planting ; 
which I afterwards performed ; and the fellows proved 
very honest and diligent after they were mastered, and 
had their properties set apart for them. 1 sent them 
also from the Brazils five cows, three of them being 
big with calf, some sheep, and some hogs, which, when 
I came again, were considerably increased. 

But all these things, with an account how three 
hundred Carihhees came and invaded them, and ruined 
their plantations, and how they fought with that whole 
number twice, and were at first defeated and three 
of them killed ; but at last a storm destroying their 
enemies* canoes, they famished or destroyed almost 
all the rest, and renewed and recov^ered the possession 
of their plantation, and still lived upon the island ; — 
all these things, with some very surprising incidents 
in some new adventures of my own, for ten years more, 
I may perhaps give a farther account of hereafter. 


TBB ENP 






THE 

WORLD’S CLASSICS 

(Size 6x4^Inches) 

ORDINARY EDITION 

Published in SEVEN different Styles 

Cloth, boards 

Sultan -red Leather, limp, gilt top 
Lambskin, limp, gilt top 
Quarter Vellum, hand-tooled, panelled 
lettering-piece, gilt top. Superior 

library style 

Half Calf, marbled edges , 

Whole Calf, marbled edges 
Tree Calf, marbled edges . 

POCKET EDITION 

•/ THE WORLD'S CLASSILS (each etftth a portrait) f* 
printed on THIN OPAQUE PAPER, by means of which 
the bulk of the stouter volumes ts reduced by one-half. Some 
of the works printed in two volumes can be had bound in 
one volume, tn sulian-red leather, limf^ gilt top. 

Cloth, limp, gilt back, gilt top 
Sultan-red Leather, limp, gilt top 
Italian, thin boards, gilt design, gilt top 
Quarter Vellum, hand-tooled, panelled 
Icttering-pi^e, gilt top . 

OUf ALL BOOKSELLERS 


HUMPHREY MILFORD 
OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS 
LONDON, EDINBURGH, GLASGOW 
NEW YORK, TORONTO, MELBOURNE, BOMBAY 
tAPE TOWN, ft SHANGHAI 



The World’s Classics 


T he best recommendation of The World’s 
Classics is the books themselves, which have 
earned unstinted praise from critics and all classes 
of the public. Some two million copies have 
been sold, and of the volumes already published 
nearly one>half have gone into a second, third, 
fourth, tifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, or tenth 
impression. It is only possible to give so much for 
the money when large sales are certain. The 
clearness of the type, the quality of the paper, the 
size of the page, the printing, and the binding — 
from the cheapest to the best-*— cannot fail to com- 
mend themselves to all who love good literature 
presented in worthy form. That a high standard 
is insisted upon is proved by the list of books 
already published and of those on the eve of 
publication. A great feature is the brief critical 
introductions written by leading authorities of 
the day. The volumes of The World’s Classics 
are obtainable, bound in cloth a^^d leather, as 
given on page i ; and special attention is directed 
to the sultan-red limp leather style for^presentation. 

The Pocket Edition is printed on thin opaque 
paper, by means of which the bulk is greatly 
reduced. 


January^ 1918 



THE WORLD’S CLASSICS 


3 

4 - 


LIST OF THE SERIES 

THm /Igurti in fnrtnihests d€noU ih$ number of (he book in (he tenet 

Aeschylus. The Seven Plays. Trans, by the late Lewis Campbeu.. (1x7) 

Aif\sworth (W. Harrison). The Tower of Londoa. (lia) 

A Kempia (Thomas). Of the Imitation of Chritt (49) 
Aristophanes. Frere’s translation of the Acharnlans, Knights, Birds, 
and Frogs Introduction by W. W. Msrkt. (134) 

Arnold (Matthew). Poems. Intro, by Sir A. T. Quii.ler-(}ouch. (85) 
Aurelius (Marcus). The Thoughts. A new translation by Iohm 
Jackson. (60) 

Austen (Jane). Emma. Introduction by B. V. Lucas. (119) 

Bacon. The Adeancement of Learning, and the New Atlantis. Intro* 
dnction by Professor Casr. (93) 

Essays (*4) 

Barham. Ths Ingoldsby Legends. (9) 

Barrow (Sir John). Ths Mutiny of the Bounty. Introduction by 
Admiral Sir Cyprian Bridge. (195) 

Betham-Edwards (M.) The Lord of the Harvest Introduction by 
Fredrric Harriso*^. (194) 

Blackmore (R. D.). Lorna Doone. Intr« by T. H. Warrrm. (171) 
Borrow. The Bible in Spain. ( 7 $) 

Lavengro. ( 66 ) 

The Romany Rye. (73) 

Bronte Sisters. 

Charlotte BrontS.* Jane Eyrs. (i) 

Shirley. (14) 

Villette. (47) 

Ths Professor, and the Poems of Charlotte, Emily, and Anne 
Bront8^ Introduction by O'heodors Watts-DUNTON. (78) 
Emily Bro iU^ Wuthenng Melghu. (10) 

Anne Bropdfr Agnes Grey. (141) 

The Tehant of Wildfell HaU. (67) 

Brown (Dr. John). Horae Subsecivac. Intro.by AUSTIN Dossom. (118) 
Browning i|inizabeth Barrett). Poems ; A Selection. (176) 
Browping (Robert). Poems and Plays, 1833-1843 (58) 

Poems, 1I4S-1864 (137) 

Buckle. Ths History of Civilisation In England. 5 vols. 1.41. 48. 53) 
Bunyan. Ths Pilgrim’s ProgrM. (xa) 

Burke. Works. 6 vols. 

. Vol. I. Oenersi Introduction by judge Willii and Preface by F. W. 
RAPrsTT. (71) 

Vols. 11 . V, VI. Prefaces by F. W. KAf pkty (Si iia-114) 

Vol. 111 . Preface by F, H.^WiLLis un) 


4 


THE WORLD’S CLASSICS 


List of the aperies — continued 

Burns. Poemt. (34) 

Butler. The Analogy of Religion. Edited, with Notes, by W 1 
Oladstoni (136) 

Byron. Poems : A Selection. (180) 

Carlyle. On Heroes and Hero-Worship. (62) 

Past and Present. Introduction by Q. K. Chrstkkton. (153) 

Sartor Reeartus. (19) 

The French Revolution. Introduction by C. R. L. Flbtchsr. s voIs. 
(125, 126) 

The Life of John Sterling. Introduction by W. Hals Whits. (144) 
Cervantes. Don Quixote. Translated by C. Jkrvas. Intro, and Notes bj 
J. Pitzmaukice-Killt. 2 Vo 1 s. With a frontispiece. (130,131) 
Chaucer. The Canterbury Tales. (76) 

The Works of From the text of IVofcssoj Skrat. 3 vols. Vol. I (4a); 
Vol. II (56); Vol. Ill, containing the whole of the Canterbury 
'J'ales (76) 

Cobbold. Margaret Catchpoie. Intro, by Clement Shorter. (119) 
Coleridge. Poems. Introduction by Sir A. T Quillbk-Couch. (99) 
Cooper (T. Fenimore). The Last of tue Mohicans. (163) 

Cowper. Letters. Seifcted, with Introduction, by E. V. Lucas. (i3i) 
Darwin. The Origin of Species. With a Note by Grant Allsn. (11) 
Defoe. Captain Singleton. Intro, by Thbodors Watts-Dunton. fSa) 
Robinson Crusoe. ( 1 7) 

De Quincey. ' Confessions of an English Opium-Eater. (23) 

Dickens. Great Expectations. With 6 Illustrations by Warwics 
Goble. (128) 

Oliver Twist. (8) 

Pickwick Papers. With 43 Illustrations by SsTMOUR and ' Phiz, b 
vols. (xao, xai) 

Tale of Two Cltiea. (38) 

Dryden. Translation of Virgil. (37) - 

Dufferin (Lord). Letters froin High Latitudes, illustrated. With 
Introduction by R. W. Macan. (158) 

Eliot (George). Adam Bede. (63) ^ ^ 

Felix Holt. Introduction by Viola Mbtnell. (179) 

Romola Introduction by Viola Mbtnsll. (17S) 

Scenes of Clerical Life. Introduction by Annis Mathsson, (155) 
Silas Marner, The Lifted Veil, anC Brother Jacob. Introductioa 
Theodorb Watts-Dunton. <8o) 

The Mill on the Floss. (31) 

Emerson. English Traits, and Representative Men (jo) 

Easayi. Firat and Second Series. (6) 

SnElisht Critical Essays (Nineteenth Century). Sefseted and Edit** 
by Eomunb D Jones. (ae6) 



THE WORLD’S CLASSICS 


List of the S#ries — conUniud 

Bng^llth Essays. Chosen sad arranged by W. Pbacocx. (3s) 
English Essays, iGoo-igoo (Book of). Chosen by 8. V. Maxowbb 
an«i fi U Blacxv/bll (172) 

English Letters. (Fifteenth to Nineteenth Centuries.) Selected and 
edited by M. Ducxm and H. Wrago. (192) 

English Prose from Mandeville to Ruskin. Chosen and 
arranged by W. Peacock (45) 

English Prose: Narrative, Descriptive, and Dramatic. 

Selected by H. A. Treble. (204} 

English Short Stories. Selected. (Nineteenth Century.) Introflucfion 
by Prof. JH nofi Walkkr (1^3) 

English Songs and Ballads. Compiled by T. W. H. Crosland. (13) 
English Speeches, from Burke to Gladstone. Selected by 
Edgar R. Jones, M.P (191) 

Fielding. Journal of a Vovage to Lisbon, etc. Introduction and Notes by 
Austin Dobson. 2 Illustrations. (142) 

Galt (John). The Entail. Introduction by John Ayscoooh. (177) 
Oaskell (Mrs.). Introductions by Clement Shorter. 

Cousin Phillts, and other Tales, etc. (168) 

Cranford, The Cage at Cranford, and The Moorland Cottage, (no) 
The 'Cage' has not hitherto been reprinted. 

Little Leigh, The Grey Woman, and otheroTales, etc. (173) 

Mary Barton. (86) • 

North and South. (154) 

Right at Last, and other Tales, etc. (205) 

Round the Sofa. (190) 

Ruth. (88) 

SylTla*! Lorers. (156) * 

WWes and Daughters. (157) 

Gibbon. Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire. With Maps. 7 Tola. 
( 35 . 44 . 5 *. 55 . 64. 69. 74 ) 

AtttoMoipraphy. Introduction by J. B. Burt. (139) 

Goethe. Faust, Part 1 (with Marlewe’s Dr. Faustus). Translated by 
JohnAnstbr. Introduction by Sir a. W. Ward. (135) 
Goldsmith. PaidRiP* Introduction and Notes by Austin Dobson. (123) 
The Vicar df^akefield. (4) 

Grant (James). The Captain of the Guard. (159) 

Hawthorng The Scarlet Ix:tter. (a6) 

Hazlitt Characters of .Shakespeare’s Play& Intro'luctioii by Sir Pi, T. 
• Quillkr*Couch. (205) 

Lecturea on the English Comio Writers. Introduction by R Briulbt 

, lOilNSON. (124) 

Sketches and Essays. (15) 

Spirit of the Age. (57) 

Table-Talk. (5) 

Wintersiow. (25) 

Herbert (George). PoemE latroduotioo by Arthur Waugh ^1091 
Herrick. fSems. (16) 


6 

f- 


THE WORLD'S CLASSICS 


Li^t of the "^ries — continued. 

Holmes (Oliver Wendell). ThcAutocrxtof the Br«skfast-'iabte (6i) 
The Poet at the Breakfast-Table. Introduction by “^Ir W Borkrtson 
Nicoll. (95) 

The Professor at the Brjcakfast-Table. Introduction by Sii.W. RosxKT* 
SON Nicoll. (89) 

Homer. Iliad. Translated by Pope. (18) 

Odyssey. Translated by Pope. (36) 

Hood. Selected Poem'?. Intr->duction by Walter Jerrold. (87) 
Horne (R. H.). A New Spirit of the Age. Intro. W. Jbrrold. (isy) 
Hume. Essays. (33) 

Hunt (l^igh). Essays and Sketches. Introduction by R. Brimlkt 

Johnson. (115) 

The Town. Introduction and Notes by AusnN Dobson, and a 
Frontispiece. (132) 

Irving (Washington). The Conquest of Granada. (150) 

The Sketch-Bo<» of Geoffrey Crayon, Gent. Introduction by T. 
Balston. (173) 

Jerrold (Douglas). Mrs. Caudle's Curtain Lectures, Mr. Caudle's Break* 
fast Talk, and other Stories and Essays. Introduction by Walter 
jRRROi.o, and 90 Illustrations by Krknb, Lrbch. and Dotlb. (jtf) 
Johnson. Lives of the English Poets. Introduction by Arthub 
Wauoh. 2 volt. (83, 84) < 

Keats. Poems. (7) 

Keble. The Christian Yrar. (181) • 

Lamb. Essays of Elia, and The Last EM»y 9 of Ella, (s) 

Landor. imaginary Conversations Selected with Introduction by 
Prof. B. OB SIlincourt. (196) 

Lesage. Gil Bias. Translated by T. Smollbtt, with Introduction and 
Notes by J. Pitzmauricb-Kbllt. 2 vols (151, 15a) 

Letters. Selected English. (Fifteenth to N inetcenth Centuries.) Edited 
by M, Duckitt and H. Wracg. (*92) 

Letters written in War Time. (Fifteenth to Nineteenth Centuries.) 
Selected by H. Wracg. 

Longfellow. Evangeline. The Golden Legend etc. (39) 

Hiawatha, Miles Standish, Tales of a Wayside aiw,;c.tc. (174) 

Lytton. Harold. With 6 Illustrations by CBARLBS Bu*^ON. (165) 
Macaulay. Lays of Ancient Rome ; Ivry ; The Armada. (27) 
Machiavelli. The Prince. Translated by Luioi Ricir^c < 43 ) 

Marcus Aurelius. See Aurelius 

Matrlowe. Dr. Faustus (with G«>ethe's Faust, Part I). Introduction fiy 
Sir A W. Ward. (135) 

Marryat. Mr. Midshipman Easy (le'?) « 

The King's Own With 6 Illustrations by WarwSoB OOBLB. (164) 
Mill (John Stuart). On Liberty. Representative Government, and 
the Subjection of Women. InL '^.^Mrs. Fawcutt, (170) 
Milton. The English Poems. (182) 

Montaigne. Essays Translated by J. Florio. 3 vols. >^*65, 70, 77) 
Morris (\i.). 1 be Defence of Guinevere. Jason, etc (183) 

Motley. Rise of the Dutch Republic latreduction by Cl vuRtvT 
Sborikr s^Ib. (96.97.98) 



2 


iMlt W6 rL1>’S classics 

^ Si . — — — 

List of the Stfiries — continued 

• * 

Nekrassov. Who can b« hai^y and fre« in Musila? A Form. 
Trana. by JULirr Sosnck. (ais) 

Palgrave% The Qoiden Treaiury. With additional Poems, Includinf 
FitzGerald’s translation of Omar Khayyim/ (133) 

Peacock ( W,), English Prose from MandeviUe to Ruskin. (45) 
Selected English Essays. (ja) 

Poe (Edgar Allan). Tales of Mystery and Imagination. <ai) 

Pope* Iliad of Homer (t8j. Odyssey of Homer (36) 

Porter (Jane). The Scottish Chiefs. (i6x) 

Prescott (W. H,)* History of the Conquest of Mexice. Introduction 
by Mrs. AlbO^Twredix. a vote (197.108) 

Reid (Mayne). The Rifle Rangers. With 6 illustrations by J. E. Sur- 

CLIHFE. (166) 

The Scalp Huntera With 6 Illustrations by A. H. CoLLlNR (t67) 
Reynolds (Sir Joshua). The Discourses, and the Letters to 'The 
Idler.’ Introduction by Austin Dobson. (149) 

Rossetti (Christina). Goblin Market. The Prince’s Progress, and other 
Poems. (184) 

I^ssetti (D. G.). Poems and Translations, x85o-i87n (185) 

Ruskin. (Rutkin Houst BdiHons, ky arrattgerngnt wffA Jfsiirs. AUem 
and Unwin, lUi.) * 

*A Joy for Ever,’ and The Two Paths. Illutksted. (X47) 

Sesame and Lilies, and The Ethics of the Dust (145) 

Time and Tide, and The Grown of Wild Olive. (X46) 

Unto this Last, and Munera Pulveris. (148) 

Scott. Ivanhoe. (19) 

Lives of the Novelists. Introduction by AUSTIN Dobson. (94) 

Poems. A Selection. (186) 

Selected Speeches on British Foreign Policy (lyaS-igxi). 

Edited by Edoar R. Jones. M.P. Jaoi) 

Shakespeare. Plays and Poems. Witn a Preface by A. C. Swinburne 
and general Introductions to Jlhe several plays and poems by 
Edward Dowden, and a Ndte by T. Watts* Dunton on tbs 
special typo|||ghical features of this Edition. 9 vote. 

Comedies. ufroTffoo, loi, xos) 

Histories in^ocms. 3 vola (103, 104. 105) 

Tragedies. 3 vote. (106, 107, xo8) 

ShakespeardfiR Contemporaries. Six Plays by Braomont and 
Fletchrr, Dekkbr, Wbbstxr, and Massinorr. Edited by 
e. B. Wkrrlrr. (199) 

Shitkuspearean Criticism. A Selection. .(Seventeenth to Nineteenth 
Centuries. Edited, with lyoduction, by D, Nichol Smith, (aia) 
Shelley. Poems. A Selection. (187) 

Sheridan. Plsya Introduction by Josrph Knight. (79) 

B^cMth (Adam)* The WeidtiiNMn^atiom s vols. (54. 59) 

Sixilth (Alexander). Dreamthorp, with Selections from Last Lssves. 

IntrodMlteon by Prof. Hugh Walxxr. (aoo) 

Smollett. Travste through France and Italy. Introduction%y Thomas 
Sxccoubr. (90) 

Sophocles. Tm Seven Pisys. Trans. Lrwu Campsrll. (11^ 




D THE WORLD'S CLASBIDS 

' t - , . 

List of the ^Tici—contiMitdf 

SottthAV (Robert). LeUert. Seleptsd, with ho latroduction and 
Notes, by Mauricb H. FitzObRALD. (169) 

Sterne. Tristram Shandy. <40) 

Swift. GulliTer’s itavels. (m) 

Taylor (Meadowe). Confcssioat of a Tbng. (itT) 

Tennyson (Lord). Poems. ($> 

Thackeray. Book of floobs, Sketches and Trseele la LSodon, Ac. (50) 
Henry Siunond. (a8) 

Pendennis, Introduction by BimuND Goma s wds. (91, 92) 
ThorhaU* Walden. Introduction by ThsodORS WArrt-DtiNTON. (68) 
Tohitoy. Essays and Letters. Ti«nsiated by AYLMka Mauds. (46) 
Twenty^three Tales. Translated by L and A. Mauds. (72) 

The Cossacks Translated by L. and A. Mauds. (so8) 

Resurrection. Trans. L Mauds. Intro A. MaUDS. (209) 

, Anna Karsnina. Trans. Atlii br Maudb. 2 vols. (aio, 21 1) 
Trollope. The Three Clerks, intro, by W. Tbiommoutm ShoRb. (140) 
Vir|^* Translated by Drydbn. (37) 

Watts-Dunton (Theodore). Ayiwin. (52) 

Wells (Cliarlee). Joseph and hii Brethten. With an Introduction Iff 
iUiOBRliON OttARLBa SWINBURNE, and a Note on RossetU and 
Charles Wells by Theodors Watts-'Dunton. (143) 

White (Gilbert). Ths«Natural History of Selborne. (as) 

Whittier. Poems. A Selection. (188) 

Wordsworth. Poems : A Selection, (liq) 

Voluma m Puparatwt. 

Gaskelly Mrs. Life of Charlotte Bronte. (.214; 

Keith. British Colonial Policy. avoL. (2x5; <.216; 

Trollope. The Waideu. (2x7) 


HUMPHREY ''MILFORD 
OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS 
LONDON, EDINBDRCH, GLASGOW 
NEW YORK, I TORONTO, MELBOURNE. BOMBAY 
CAPE TOWN, ft SHANGHAI "" 






