
THE STORY OF 
ROBINSON CRUSOE 





% WK)© OI* CSS® ^ 






GREAT WRITERS FOR YOUXG READERS 


THE STORY OF 
ROBINSON CRUSOE 



OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS 


fhfiwi Umrmiiy Pms, Ely Houss, Lmion W.I 

s;L.%»€CJW new YORK TORONTO ^VIELBOURXE W^ELLIXGTON 

rows s.%Eis,BusY xairobi Lusaka mms ababa 

CALCUTTA NLAORAS KA.RACHI LAHORE DACCA 
K1‘- %LA LUMPUl SI!«APOaE HONG KONG TOET-O 
OtfQrd§i€MM^ Mmmi Roadi Madras 6 


Omkl Deeoe T 73 1 


Pmp€f m>ed : DoiMt Crown size,, 1 1 .8 kg white printing 


■ FRiWtO IS INWA 

m rm mmcmm 7 and published bt 

ymOi PRESS, ,$ 



CONTENTS 


CHAP. MGj, 



Introductory . 

. 

. 

. 

7 

I . 

My First Night on the Island . 

* 

g 

n. 

Visits to the Wreck 




JO 

m. 

A Dwelling-Place . 



• 

20 

IV. 

Weld Goats 



• 

21 

V. 

My Calendar . 


« 

, '• . 

22 

VI. 

Tools 




2# 

vn. 

Crops 




24 

vm. 

Surveying the Island 




^2? 

IX. 

My Do3.iestic Animals 





X. 

The Seasons ■■ . 




14 

XI. 

Basket Making 





xn. 

Another Land Journey 




IT 

xm. 

My Crops IN I>ANGER 

. 



41 

XIV. 

Earthenware Making 

. 



46 

XV. 

Baking Bread . . . 

* 



4 » 


V 



CONTENTS 


CHA?. 

XVI. 

A Cakoe . 



PAGE 

. 50 

xvn. 

Clothes . 



• 54 

xvin. 

A Sea Voyage . 



. 56 

XIX. 

A Surprise 



• 59 

XX. 

Goat Traps 



. 6j 

XXI. 

A Footprint 



. 64 

xxn. 

My Defences . 



. 67 

xxm. 

My Famijjy 



• 73 

XXIV. 

SxiVAGES . 



• 75 

XXV. 

xA Shipwreck * 



. 76 

XXVI. 

The SxWages Again . 


• 

* 81 

xxvn. 

My Man Friday 



. 84 

xxvm. 

Friday and the Gun 


« 

. 89 



Robinson Crusoe was bom in the year 1652^ in the 
city of York, as he says, of a good family. He early 
showed signs of a roving character and would 
be satisfied with nothing else- than going to sea> 
though his father wished him to settle down to a 
peaceful life ashore. At the age of about eighteen 
he embarked on his first voyage, from Hull to 
London, a voyage that ended in disaster, for the 
ship was sunk in a storm off Yarmouth, and the 
crew with difficulty gained the land in a boat. 

Crusoe next made one or two voyages to the 
Mediterranean and the northern parts of Africa; 
but on the last of these, the ship was captured by 
pirates and the crew taken prisoners. For upwards 
of two years Crusoe was a slave in the hands of the 
Moors; and at the end of that time fie made his 
escape in a small sailing-boat, and was picked up 
by a Portuguese ship bound for Brazil, There he 
settled down on shore for a time as a sugar- 
planter; and might have become prosperous had 
he not been a born wanderer, unable to resist the 
call of the sea ; so his next venture was an 
expedition to the West African coast for the 
purpose of bringing over slaves to work on the 
sugar plantations. 

This voyage turned out even worse than the 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


8 

others. The vessel was driven by storms far out 
of her course, and was wrecked upon an island, not 
far from the mainland of America, off the mouth of 
the River Orinoco, though at the time neither 
■Crusoe nor anyone else on board knew where it was. 
The ship’s company attempted to make land in their 
boat, but in the heavy sea the boat was swamped, 
.and they all perished with the single exception of 
Robinson Crusoe, who after a hard struggle with the 
waves, and much battering by the rocks, managed 
to dras himself to shore. 

I. Afy First Night on the Island 

I was now landed and safe on shore, and 
began to look up and thank God that nay life 
was saved. I walked about, lifting up my 
hands, and my whole being, as I may say, 
reflecting upon all my comrades that were 
drowned, and that there should not be one 
soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I 
never saw them afterwards, or any sign of 
them, except three of their hats, one cap, and 
two shoes that were not fellows. 

I cast my eyas to the stranded vessel, when 
the breach and froth of the sea being so big, 
I could hardly see it, it lav so far off, and 
considered how w'as it possible I could get 
-on shore . 

But when I began to look round me to sec 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


9 ' 

what kind ot place I was in, and what was- 
next to be done, I soon found my comfoits^ 

abate. I was wet and had no clothes to change 
into, nor anything either to eat or drinks 
neither did I see any prospect before me but 
that of perishing with hunger, or being- 
devoured by wild beasts. In a word, I 
had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco 
pipe, and a Little tobacco in a box. Night 
coming upon me, I began with a heavy heart 
to consider what would be my lot if there 
were any ravenous beasts in that country, 
seeing at night they always come abroad for 
their prey. 

AH the remedy I could think of at that 
time was to get up into a thick bushy tree 
like a fir, which grew near me, and where I 
resolved to sit aU night. I walked about a 
furlong from the shore to see if I could find 
any fresh water to drink, which I did, to my 
great joy ; and having drunk, I went to the 
tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to- 
place myself so that, if I should sleep, I 
might not fall. Having cut me a short stick 
for my defence, I took up my lodging, and. 
being very tired, fell fast asleep. 



10 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


11. Visits to the Wreck 

Wheu I awoke it was broad day, the weather 
clear and the storm abated. But that which 
surprised me most was that the ship was 
lifted off in the night from the sand where 
she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was 
drifted in to within about a mile from the 
shore where I was, and the ship seeming to 
stand upright still, I wished myself on board, 
that at least I might save some necessary 
things for my use. 

When I came down from my apartment in 
the tree, I looked about me again, and the 
first thing I found was the boat, which lay 
as the wind and the sea had tossed her up 
upon the land, about two miles on my right 
hand. I walked as far as I could upon the 
shore to have got to her, but found a neck, or 
inlet of water, between me and the boat, 
which was about half a mile broad. So I 
came back for the present, being more intent 
upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to 
find something for my present subsistence. 

A little after noon I found the sea very 
calm and the tide ebbed so far out that I 
could come within a quarter of a mile of 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


II 


the ship. And here I found a fresh renewing 
of my grief ; for I saw evidently, that if we 
had kept on board, we had been all safe — 
that is to say, we had all got safe on shore, and 



I had not been so miserable as to be left 
entirely destitute of all comfort and company, 
as I now was. This forced tears from my 
eyes again ; but as there was little relief in 
that, I resolved if possible to get to the ship ; 



T2 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


so I pulled off my dotlies, for the weather 
was hot to extremity, and took to tlie water. 
But w^hen I came to the ship, my difficulty was 
still greater to know how to get on board ; 
for as she lay aground and high out of the 
water, there was nothing within my reach to 
iav hold of. 

j 

I swam round her twice, and the second 
time I spied a small piece of rope, which I 
w^ondered I did not see at first, hang down 
by the fore-chains, so low that with great 
difficulty I got hold of it, and by the help 
of that rope, got up into the forecastle of the 
ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged, 
•and had a great deal of water in her hold, but 
.that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard 
sand, or rather earth, and her stern lay lifted 
up upon the bank, and her head low almost 
to the water. By this means all her quarter 
was free, and all that was in that part was dry ; 
for you may be sure my first work was to 
search and to see what was spoiled, and what 
w’as free. And first I found that all the ship’s 
provisions were dry and, being hungry, I 
went to the bread room and filled my pockets 
with biscuit, and ate it as I went about, for I 
had no time to lose. Now I wanted nothing 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


13 

but a boat to furnish me with many things 
which I foresaw would be very necessary to 
me. 

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what 
was not to be had, so I set to work. We had 
several spare yards and two or three large 
spars of wood and a spare topmast or two in 
the ship. I flung as many of them overboard 
as I could manage for their weight, tying every 
one with a rope that they might not drift 
away. When this was done I went down the 
ship’s side, and pulling them to me, I tied 
four of them together at both ends as well as 
I could, in the form of a raft ; and laying two 
or three short pieces of plank upon them 
crossways, I found I could walk upon it 
very well. 

My next care was what to load it with and 
how to preserve what I laid upon it from the 
sea. I first laid all the planks upon it that I 
could get, and then got three of the seamen’s 
chests, which I had broken open and emptied, 
and lowered them down upon my raft. 
The first of these I filled with provisions, viz., 
bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces 
of dried goat’s flesh, and a little remainder of 
corn, which had been laid by for some fowls 



14 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


which wc brought to sea with us, but the- 
fowls were killed. 

While I was doing this, T found the tide 
began to flow, though very calm, and I had 
the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and 
waistcoat, which I had left on shore upon 
the sand, swim away. As for my breeches,, 
which were only linen, and open-kneed, I 
swam on board in them and my stockings. 
However, this put me upon rummaging for 
clothes, of which I found enough, but took 
no more than I wanted for present use ; for 
I had other things which my eye was more 
upon, such as tools to work with on shore. 
I found the carpenter’s chest, which was 
indeed a useful prize to me. 

I then made search for some ammunition 
and arms. There were two very good fowl- 
ing-pieces in the great cabin, and two pistols ; 
these I secured first, with some powder horns 
and a small bag of shot, and two old rusty 
swords. 

I knew there were three barrels of powder 
in the ship, and with much search I found 
them. Two of them were dry and good, and 
those I got to my raft with the arms. 

And now I thought myself pretty well 



. -ROBINSON CRUSOE 15 

/ ' ' f ^ ^ ^ '’»4 ' ^ 

freighted, and began to think how I should 
get to shore with them, having neither sail, 
oar, nor rudder ; and the least capful of wind 
would have overset all my navigation. 

I ha^ ' three encouragements : fifst, a 
smooth, calm sea ; secondly, the tide rising, 
and setting in to the shore ; thirdly, what 
lit^ wind there was blew me towards the 
land. And thus, having found two or three 
broken oars, belonging to the boat, and 
besides the tools which were in the chest, 
two saws, an axe, and a hammer, with this 
-cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or there- 
abouts, my raft went very well, only that I 
found it drive a little distant from the place 
where I had landed before; by which I 
perceived that there was some indraught of 
the water, and consequently, I hoped to find 
some creek or river there, which I might make 
use of as a port to get to land with my cargo. 

As I imagined, so it was. There appeared 
before me a little opening of the land. I 
found a strong current of the tide set into it ; 
so I guided my raft as well as I could, to keep 
in the middle of the stream. 

But here I had like to have suffered a second 
shipwreck, which, if I had, I think verily 



i6 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

would have broken my heart ; for, knowing 
nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at 
one end of it upon a shoal, and not being 
aground at the other end, it wanted but a 
little that aU my cargo had shpped off towards 
the end that was afloat, and so fallen into the 
water. I did my utmost, by setting my back 
against the chests, to keep them in their 
places, but could not thrust off the raft with 
all my strength ; neither durst I stir from the 
posture I was in ; but holding up the chests 
with all my might, I stood in that manner 
near half-an-hour, in which time the rising of 
the water brought me a little more upon a 
level ; and a little after, the water still rising, 
my raft floated again, and I thrust her off 
with the oar I had into the channel, and then 
driving up higher, I at length found myself 
in the mouth of a little river, with land on 
both sides, and a strong current or tide 
running up. I looked on both sides for a 
proper place to get to shore, and at length I 
spied a little _cpve on the right shore of the 
creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, 
I guided my raft. 

My next work was to view the country 
and seek a proper place for my habitation 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


17 

and -where to stow my goods, to secure them 
from whatever might happen. Where I was, 
I yet knew not ; whether on the continent or 
on an island — whether inhabited or not in- 
habited — whether in danger of wild beasts or 
not. There was a hill not above a mile from 
me, which rose up very steep and high. I 
took out one of the fowling-pieces and one of 
the pistols, and a horn of powder ; and thus 
armed, I travelled to the top of that hill, 
where I saw that I was in an island, sur- 
rounded every way by the sea, no land to be 
seen, except some rocks which lay a great 
wav off, and two small islands about three 
leagues to the west. 

I found also, that the island I was in was 
barren, and, as I saw good reason to believe, 
uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of which 
however, I saw none. Yet I saw abundance 
of fowls, but knew not their kinds ; neither, 
when I killed them, could I tell what was fit 
for food, and what not. At my coming back, 
I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon 
a tree on the side of a great wood. I beheve 
it was the first gun that had been fired there 
since the creation of the world. I had no 
sooner fired, but from all parts of the wood 

B 



1 8 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

there arose an innumerable number of fotvls 
'of many sorts, making a confused screaming, 
and crying every one according to his usual 
note ; but not one of them of any kind that I 
knew. As for the creature I killed, I took it 
to be a kind of a hawk, its colour and beak 
resembling it, but it had no talons, or claws, 
more than common. Its flesh was carrion, 
and fit for nothina:. 

I came back to my raft and fell to work to 
unload my cargo, which took me up the rest 
of that day ; and what to do with myself at 
night I knew not, nor indeed where to rest , 
for I was afraid to lie down on the ground, 
not knowing but some wild beast might 
devour me, though, as I afterwards found, 
there was no need for those fears. How- 
ever, I barricaded myself round with the 
chests and boards I had brought on shore, and 
made a kind of hut for that night’s lodgings. 
As for food, I yet saw not which way to 
supply myself, except that I had seen two or 
three creatures like hares run out of the wood 
where I shot the fowl. 

I made several other voyages to the ship 
and brought away many things very useful to 
me ; as, first, two or three bags full of nails 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


19 

and spikes, a dozen or two of lia,tchets, a 
hammock and some bedding ; also as much 
of the figging and small ropes as I could, and 
a piece of spare canvas. But that which 
comforted me more than all was that, after 
had made five or six such voyages and thought 
I had nothing more to expect from the ship, I 
found a great hogshead of bread, a box of 
sugar, and a barrel of fine flour. I soon 
emptied the hogshead of that bread, and 
wrapped it up parcel by parcel in pieces of 
the sails, which I cut out ; and I got all this 
safe on shore also. 

I was under some apprehensions during my 
absence from the land, that my provisions 
might be devoured on shore ; but I never 
found a sign of any visitor, only once there 
sat a creature like a wild cat upon one of the 
chests, which, when I came towards it, ran 
away a little distance and then stood still. 
She sat very composedly and unconcerned, 
and looked full in my face, as if she had a 
mind to be acquainted with me. I presented 
my gun at her ; but as she did not understand 
it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor 
did she offer to stir away. Upon that I 
tossed her a bit of biscuit ; and she went to 



20 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


it, smelled of it, and ate it, and looked for 
more, but I thanked her, and could spare no 
more, so she marched off. 

III. A. Dwelling-Vlace 

My thoughts were now whoUy occupied 
about what kind of dwelling to make, whether 
I should make me a cave in the earth or a tent 
upon the earth ; and, in short, I resolved upon 
both. In search of a proper place for this, I 
found a little plain upon the side of a rising 
hill, whose front towards this Httle plain was 
as steep as a house-side, so that nothing could 
come down upon me from the top. On the 
side of this rock was a hollow place, like the 
entrance or door of a cave, but there was not 
really any cave, or way into the rock at all. 

On the flat of the green, just before this 
hollow place, I resolved to pitch my tent. 
This plain was not above a hundred yards 
broad, and about twice as long, and lay like 
a green before my door, and, at the end of it, 
descended irregularly every way down into 
the low grounds by the seaside. 

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half- 
circle before the hollow place, and round 
I drove two rows of strong stakes, about five 



ROBINSON CRUSOE zi 

feet and a half high and sharpened at the top. 
The two rows were not above six inches from 
each other. Then I took pieces of cable 
which I had cut in the ship, and laid them in 
rows one upon another, between these two 
rows of stakes, up to the top, and this fence 
was so strong that neither man nor beast 
could get into it, or over it. 

The entrance to this place I made to be by 
a short ladder, to go over the top ; which 
ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me. 
Into this fence or fortress I carried aU my 
stores ; and I made me a large tent and covered 
it with a tarpaulin which I had saved from the 
ship. 

When I had done this I began to work my 
way into the rock ; and thus I made me a cave 
just behind my tent, vrhich served me like a 
cellar to my house, 

IV. WildGoats.. . 

It cost me much labour and many days 
before all these things were brought to 
perfection. In the interval, I went out once, 
at least, every day with my gun to see if I 
could kill anything fit for food. The first 
time I went out I discovered there were goats 



22 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


in the island ; but they were so shy and so> 
swift of foot that it was the hardest thing in 
the world to come at them. The first shot I 
made among these creatures I killed a she- 
goat, which had a Httle kid by her. When the 



old one fell the kid stood stock still bv her ; 
and not only so, but when I carried the old 
one upon my shoulders, the kid followed me 
quite to my enclosure. I had hopes to have 
bred it up tame, but it would not eat, so I 
was forced to kill it and eat it myself. 

i • y. My Calendar 

After I had been on my island about ten or 
twelve days, it came into my thoughts that I 
should lose my reckoning of time ; but to 
prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 23 

large post ; and making it into a great cross, I 
set it up on the shore where I first landed, 
viz. : “ I came on shore here on the 30th day 
of September, 1659.” Upon the sides of this 
square post I cut every day a notch with my 
knife, and every seventh notch was as long 
again as the rest, and the first day of every 
month was as long again as that long one ; and 
thus I kept my calendar. 



Among the many things which I had brought 
out of the ship in the several voyages I made 
to it, I got several things of less value, but 
not all less useful to me, such as pens, ink 
and paper, three or four compasses, telescopes 
and charts. Also I found three very good 
Bibles and several other books, all which I 
carefully secured. And I must not forget 
that in the ship we had a dog and two cats. I 
carried both the cats with me ; and as for the 
dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself, 
and swam on shore to me the day after I went 



24 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

on shore with my first cargo, and was a: 
trusty servant to me many years. 

VI. Tools 

The want of tools made every work I did 
go on heavily ; and it was nearly a whole 
year before I had finished my little pale or 
surrounded habitation. The piles or stakes, 
which were as heavy as I could well lift, 
were a long time in cutting and preparing 
in the woods, and more by far in bringing 
home ; so that I sometimes spent two days in 
cutting and bringing home one of those posts, 
and a third day in driving it into the ground. 

After some time — I think it was a year and a 
half — ^I raised rafters from my fence leading 
to the rock, and covered them with boughs 
of trees and such things as I could get to keep 
out the rain, which I found at some times of the 
year very violent. Also I set to work to 
make such necessary things as I found I most 
wanted, such as a chair and a table; for 
without these I was not able to enjoy the few 
comforts I had in the world. I had never 
handled a tool in my life, yet in time, by 
labour and contrivance, I found at last that 
I wanted nothing but I could have made it. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


25 

-especially if I had had tools. However, I 
made abundance of things even without tools, 
and some with no moretools than an adze and 
a hatchet, which perhaps were never made that 
way before, and that with infinite labour. For 
example, if I wanted a board, I had no way 
but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge before 



me, and hew it flat on cither side with my axe, 
till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank, 
and then dub it smooth with my adze. It 
is true, by this method I could make but one 
plank of a whole tree, but this I had no 
remedy for but patience. 

When I had wrought out some boards in 
this way, I made large shelves of the breadth 
of a foot and a half, one over another, all 
along one side, of my cave, to lay all my tools. 



26 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

nails and iron-work upon. I knocked pieces 
of wood into the wall of the rock to hang my 
guns and all things that would hang up ; sO' 
that had my cave been to be seen, it looked 
like a general store of all necessary things. 

For a long time I was at a great loss for a 
candle ; so that as soon as ever it was dark, 
which was generally by seven o’clock, I was 
obliged to go to bed. The only remedy I had 
was that when I had killed a goat I saved the 
tallow, and with a little dish made of clay, 
which I baked in the sun, to which I added a 
wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp 
and this gave me light, though not a clear 
steady Hght like a candle. 

VII. Crops 

One day it happened that, rummaging my 
things, I found a little bag that had been filled 
with corn. I saw nothing in it now but 
husks and dust, which I shook out on the 
ground. It was a little before the great rains 
that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice 
of anything, and not so much as remembering 
that I had thrown anything there; when, 
about a month after, I saw a few stalks of 
something green shooting out of the'ground. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


27 

I was perfectly astonished when, after a little 
longer time, I saw ten or twelve ears of English 
barley come out. 

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you 
may be sure, in their season ; and laying up 
every corn, I resolved to sow them all again, 
hoping in time to have some quantity sufldcient 
to supply me with bread. But it was not till 
the fourth year that I could allow myself the 
least grain of this corn to eat, and even then 
but sparingly ; for I lost aU that I sowed the 
first season by not observing the proper time ; 
for I sowed it just before the dry season, so 
that it never came up at all. Besides the 
barley there were twenty or thirty stalks of 
rice, which I preserved with the same care, 

VIII. Surveying the Island 

I had now been in this unhappy island above 
ten months; aU possibility of deliverance 
seemed to be entirely taken from me, and I 
firmly believe that no human shape had ever 
set foot upon that place. I now began to 
take a more particular survey of the island 
itself. I went up the creek where I brought 
my rafts on shore. I found after I had come 
about two miles up, that the tide did not 



28 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

flow any higher, and that it was no more than 
a little brook of running water, very fresh 
and good. 

On the bank of this brook I found many 
pleasant meadows, covered with grass ; and 
on the rising part of them I found a great 
deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a 
great and very strong stalk. I saw several 
sugar canes, but wild, and for want of cultiva- 
tion, imperfect. 

The next day I went up the same way again 
but farther, and came into woody country. 
In this part I found different fruits, and 
particularly I found melons on the ground in 
great abundance, and grapes upon the trees. 

The vines had spread indeed over the trees, 
and the clusters of grapes were just now in 
their prime, very ripe and rich. I found an 
excellent use for these grapes ; and that was, 
to cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them 
as dried grapes or raisins are kept. They 
were very wholesome and agreeable to eat 
when no grapes were to be had. 

I spent all that evening there, and went 
not back to my habitation, which, by the 
way, was the first m'ght, as I might say, I had 
lain from home. In the night, I took my first 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


29 

contrivance, and got up into a tree, where I 
slept well ; and next morning proceeded upon 
my discovery, travelling nearly four miles, as 
I might judge by the length of the valley, 
keeping still due north, with a ridge of hiUs 



on the south and north side of me. At the 
end of this march I came to an opening, where 
the country seemed to descend to the west ; 
and a little spring of fresh water, which issued 
out of the side of the hill by me, ran the other 
way, that is, due east; and the country 




30 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing, 
everything being a constant verdure, or 
flourish of spring, that it looked like a 
planted garden. 

I saw here abundance of cocoa trees, orange, 
and lemon, and citron trees ; but all wild and 
very few bearing any fruit, at least not then. 
However, the green limes I gathered were 
not only pleasant to eat but very wholesome ; 
and I mixed their juice with water, which made 
it very cool and refreshing. 

I found now I had business enough to 
gather and carry home; and I resolved to 
lay up a store, as well of grapes as limes and 
lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season, 
which I knew was approaching. In order to 
do this, I gathered a great heap of grapes in 
one place, a lesser heap in another place, and 
a great parcel of limes and lemons in another 
place ; and taking a few of each with me, I 
travelled homeward, and resolved to come 
again, and bring a bag or sack, or what I could 
make to carry the rest home. Accordingly, 
having spent three days in this journey, I 
came home (so I must now call my tent and 
my cave) ; but before I got thither, the grapes 
were spoiled ; the richness of the fruit, and the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


31 

weight of the juice, having broken them and 
bruised them, they were good for little or 
nothing ; as to the limes, they were good, but 
I could bring but few. 

The next day I went back, having made me 
two small bags to bring home my harvest. 
But I was surprised, when, coming to my 
heap of grapes which were so rich and fine 
when I gathered them, I found them all 
spread abroad, trod to pieces, and dragged 
about, some here, some there, and abundance 
eaten and devoured. By this I concluded 
there were some wild creatures thereabouts, 
which had done this ; but what they were I 

knew not. ' ‘ 

However, as I found there was no laying 
them up in heaps, and no carrying them away 
in a sack, but that one way they would be 
destroyed, and the other way they would be 
crushed with their own weight, I took another 
course. I gathered a large quantity of the 
grapes, and hung them upon the outer 
branches of the trees, that they might cure 
and dry in the sun ; and as for the limes and 
lemons, I carried as many back as I could well 
stand under. C,eX. ASHOKNAGAR, HY1> 

I liked this place so much that I spent much 



ROBINSON CRUSOi 


X. The Seasons 

The rainy season and the dry season began 
now to appear regular to me. I have men- 
tioned that I saved a few ears of barley and 
rice, and after the rains I thought it a proper 
time to sow it. Accordingly I dug up a 
piece of ground with a wooden spade that I 
had made, and sowed my grain, but not 
quite all, leaving about a handful of each. 
It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I 
did so, for not one grain of that I sowed this 
time camc^ to anything, for the dry months 
following, the earth had no moisture to assist 
the growth of the seed : and it did not 
come up at all until the wet season had come 
again. 

Finding my first seed did not grow, I 
sought for a moister place to make another 
trial in, and dug up a piece of ground near 
my new bower and sowed the rest of my seed 
in the spring. And this, having the rainy 
months of March and April to water it, 
sprang up very pleasantly and yielded a very 
good crop. But by this experiment I was 
made master of my business, and knew exactly 
when the proper season was to sow, and that 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


35 

I might expect two seedtimes and two harvests 
every year. 

While this corn was growing, I made a 
little discovery which was of use to me after- 
wards. As soon as the rains were over, and 
the weather began to settle, which was about 
the month of November, I made a visit up 
the country to my bower, where, though I 
had not been some months, I found all things 
just as I left them. The circle or fence that I 
had made was not only firm and entire, but 
the stakes which I had cut off of some trees 
that grew thereabouts were all shot out and 
grown with long branches, as much as a 
willow-tree usually shoots the first year after 
lopping its head. I could not tell what tree 
to call it that the stakes were cut from. I was 
surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see 
the young trees grow; and I pruned them, 
and led them up to grow as much alike as 
I could ; and it is scarcely credible how 
beautiful a figure they grew into in three 
years; so that though the hedge made a 
circle of about twenty-five yards in diameter, 
yet the trees, for such I might now call them, 
soon covered it, and it was a complete shade, 
sufficient to lodge under all the dry season. 



36 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

This made me to resolve to cut some more 
stakes, and make me a hedge like this in a 
semi-circle round my wall (I mean that of my 
first dwelling), which I did ; and placing the 
trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight 
yards distance from my first fence, they grew 
presently, and were a fine cover to my 
habitation. 


XI. Basket Making 

I sat within doors as much as possible 
during the wet months, and in this time I 
found much employment, for I found great 
occasion of many things which I had no way 
to furnish myself with but by hard labour and 
constant application. Particularly, I tried 
many ways to make myself a basket, but all 
the twigs I could get for the purpose proved 
so brittle that they would do nothing. It 
proved of excellent advantage to me now that 
when I was a boy I used to take great delight 
in standing at a basket-maker’s, in the town 
where my father lived, to see them make their 
wicker-ware ; and being, as boys usually are, 
very anxious to help, and a great observer 
of the manner how they worked those things, 
and sometimes lent a hand, I had by this means 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 37 

a full knowledge of the methods of it, and I 
wanted nothing but the materials. It came 
into my mind that the twigs of that tree from 
whence I cut my stakes that grew might 
possibly be as tough as the sallows, willows, 
and osiers in England, and I resolved to try. 
Accordingly, one day, I went to my country 
house, as I called it, and cutting some of the 
smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as 
much as I could desire; whereupon, I came 
the next time prepared with a hatchet to cut 
down a quantity, which I soon found, for 
there was great plenty of them. These I 
set up to dry within my circle, or hedge, and 
when they were fit for use, I carried them to 
my cave ; and here, during the next season, I 
employed myself in making (as well as I 
could) a great many baskets, both to carry 
earth, or to carry or lay up anything, as I had 
occasion. 


XII. Another L,and Journey 
For a long time I had had a great mind to 
see the whole island. I now resolved to 
travel right across to the seashore on the 
opposite side ; so, taking my gun, a hatchet 
and my dog, and a store of food, I began my. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


38 

journey. When I had passed the vale where 
my bower stood I came within view of the 
sea to the west, and it being a very clear day, 

I saw land, whether an island or a continent 
I could not teU; but it lay at a very great 
distance. 

I could not tell what part of the world this 
might be, otherwise than that I knew it 
must be part of America, and, as I concluded, 
by all my observations, must be near the 
Spanish Dominions, and perhaps was all 
inhabited by savages, where, if I should have 
landed, I might have been in a worse condi- 
tion than I was now ; and therefore I resigned 
myself to the dispositions of Providence, 
which I began now to own and to believe 
ordered everything for the best. 

With these considerations, I walked very 
leisurely forward. I found that side of the 
island where I now was much pleasanter than 
mine — the open or savannah fields sweet, 
adorned with flowers and grass, and full of 
very fine woods. I saw abundance of 
parrots and fain I would have caught 
one, if possible, to have kept it to be 
tame and taught it to speak to me. I did, 
after some trouble, catch a young parrot, for I 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


39 

knocked it down with a stick ; and I brought 
it home, but it was some years before I could 
make him speak. However, at last I taught 
him to call me by my name very familiarly. 

I was exceedingly diverted with this 
journey. I found in the low grounds hares, 
as I thought them to be, and foxes ; but they 



differed greatly from all others kinds I had 
met with, nor could I satisfy myself to eat 
them, though I killed several. But I had no 
need to be venturous, for I had no want of 
food, and of that which was very good, too, 
especially these three sorts, viz., goats, 
pigeons, and turtle or tortoise, which added 
to my grapes, Leadenhall market could not 
have furnished a table better than I, in 
proportion to the company. 




40 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


As soon as I came to the seashore I was 
surprised to see that I had taken up my lot 
on the worst side of the island, for here indeed 
the shore was covered with innumerable 
turtle, whereas on the other side I had found 
but three in a year and a half. Here was also 
an infinite number of fowls of many kinds, 
some which I had seen, and some which I 
had not seen before, and many of them very 



vood meat, but such as I knew not the names 
of except those called penguins. 

I travelled along the shore of the sea 
towards the east, I suppose about twelve 
miles, and then setting up^ a great pole upon 
the shore for a mark, I concluded I would go 
home again; and that the next journey I 
took should be on the other side of the 
island, east from my dwelling, and so round 
till I came to my post again. 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


41 

I took another way to come back than that I 
went, thinking I could easily keep all the 
island so much in my view, that I could not 
miss finding my first dwelling by viewing the 
country ; but I found myself mistaken, for, 
being come about two or three miles, I 
found myself descended into a very large 
valley, but so surrounded with hills, and those 
hills covered with wood, that I could not see 
which was my way by any direction but that 
of the sun, nor even then unless I knew very 
well the position of the sun at that time of the 
day. It happened to my further misfortune, 
that the weather proved ha2y_ for three or 
four days while I was in this valley, and noi 
being able to see the sun, I wandered about 
very uncomfortable, and at last was obliged 
to find out the sea-side, look for my post, and 
come back the same way I went ; and then, by 
easy journeys, I turned homeward, the weather 
being exceedingly hot, and my gun, ammuni- 
tion, hatchet, and other things, very heavy. 

In this journey my dog surprised a young 
kid, and seized upon it, and I running to take 
hold of it, caught it, and saved it alive from 
the dog. I made a collar for this little 
creature, and with a string I led him along 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


42 

till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed 
him and left him, for I was very impatient 
to be at home again, from which I had been 
absent above a month, 

I reposed myself a week to rest and regale 
myself after my long journey ; during which 
most of the time was taken up in the weighty 
affair of making a cage for my Poll, who 
began now to be very well acquainted with 
me. Then I began to think of the poor kid 
winch I had penned in at my bower, and 
resolved to go and fetch it home and give it 
some food. Accordingly I went and found 
it where I left it, for indeed it could not get 
•out, but almost starved for want of food. 
J went and cut boughs of trees and branches of 
such shrubs as I could find, and threw them 
over, and having fed it, I tied it as I did 
before, to lead it- away ; but it was so tame 
with being hungry that I had no need to have 
tied it, for it followed me like a dog. And as 
I continually fed it, the creature became so 
loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it became 
from that time one of my domestics also, 
and would never leave me afterwards. 

The rainy season was now come, and I kept 
the 30th of September in a solemn manner. 



ROBINSd'j^ CRUSOE 


43 ' 


being the anniversary of my landing on the 
island, having now been there for two years, . 
and no more prospect of being delivered than 
the first day I came there. I spent the whole 
day in humble and ackno^-dedg- 

ments of the many d S J,nch • 

my solitary conditio**™ with mejT -^^^d 


without which i^^^erc arose u ^ 
more miserable. ^ ^ "any 

thanks that God h. ,ccn pleased*^ 
to me that it was “possible ^ 

happy in this solitary condition 
have been in a l^erty of society, 
the pleasures of the world : that 
make up fully to me the deficiencf*^ 
solitary state, and the want of huma^^ sh^cy, 
by His presence, and the commi-*''^^^'^^ 

His grace to my soul ; suppor’'*^’ comfort- 
ing, and encouraging me to dr®®^ upon Hts 
providence here, and hope®^ eternal 
presence hereafter. 


XIII. My Crop'» 

In the months of Nov^^b^^ December, 
I was expecting my cfP barley and rice. 
The ground I had du them was not 

great, for my seed o^-^ch was not above half 



44 


ROBINSGiM CRUSOE 


a peck. But now my crop promised very 
well, when on a sudden I found I was in 
danger of losing it all again by enemies of 
several sorts, which it was scarcely possible 


to keep from itnat first, the goats, and wild 

creatures w^r^l^P^l^l^hares, which, tasting 

the it night and 

was taken\ G , . ^ , 

-SaTa C ".'m ate it so close 

r g a cage for ^ 

'h«„ ■ " ..erY WcU “P 

5tal^ ,j^p: ■ {nk 

Th^^^aw no remedy ..or, but by making 
"'•''jimclosure about it with a hedge, which I 
great deal of tc]^; and the more, 
some 00^ . ^ great deal of speed, the 

it where spoiling my corn. However, 

as ^ small, suited to my 

,'t it tolerably well fenced round in 
about three ';^eeks time, and shooting some 
of the creatures in the daytime, I set my dog 
to guard it in^‘±e night, tying him up to a 
stake at the gateh where he would stand and 
bark all night lone. So in a little time the 
enemies forsook tl^place, and the corn grew 
verv strong and w^l, and began to ripen 


apace. 

But as the beasts ruped me before, while 
my corn was in the bl^, so the birds were 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 45 

as likely to ruin me now, when it was in the 
ear ; for, going along by the place to see how 
it throve, I saw my little crop surrounded with 
fowls of I know not how many sorts, which 
stood as it were watching till I should be 
gone. I immediately fired among them (for 
I always had my gun with me). I had no 
sooner shot, but there arose up a cloud of 
fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among 
the corn itself. 

This touched me sensibly ; for I foresaw 
that, in a few days, they would devour all my 
hopes ; that I should be starved, and never 
be able to raise a crop at all — and what to do 
I could not tell ; however, I resolved not to 
lose my corn, if possible, though I should 
watch it night and day. In the first place, I 
went among it to see what damage was 
already done, and found they had spoiled a 
good deal of it ; but that, as it was yet too 
green for them, the loss was not so great, but 
the remainder was like to be a good crop, if 
it could be saved. 

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then 
coming away, I could easily see the thieves 
sitting upon ail the trees about me, as if they 
only waited till I was gone away. And the 



46 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

event proved it to be so ; for, as I walked off 
as if I was gone, I was no sooner out of their 
sight, than they dropped down one by one 
into the corn again. I was so provoked, that 
I could not have patience to stay till more 
came on, knowing that every grain that they 
ate now was, as it might be said, a peck-loaf 
to me in the consequence ; but, coming up 
to the hedge, I fired again, and killed three of 
them. This was what I wished for ; so I 
took them up, and served them as we serve 
notorious thieves in England, viz., hanged 
them in chains for a terror to others. It is 
impossible to imagine almost that this should 
have had such an effect as it had, for the fowls 
would not only not come at the corn, but, in 
short, they forsook all that part of the island, 
and I could never see a bird near the place as 
long as my scarecrows hung there. 

XIV. Earthenware Making 
I had long studied by some means or other 
to make myself some earthen vessels, which 
indeed I wanted sorely, but knew not where 
to come at them. However, I did not doubt 
but if I could find any suitable clay, I might 
botch up some such pots as might, being 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 47 

dried in the sun, be hard enough and strong 
enough to bear handling, and to hold any- 
thing that was dry. 

It would make the reader pity me, or 
rather laugh at me, to tell how many awk- 



ward ways I took to raise this paste ; and 
what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made. 
Having laboured hard to find the clay, to dig 
it, to bring it home and work it, I could not 
make above two large earthen ugly things 
(I cannot call them jars) in about two months’ 



48 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

labour. However, as the sun baked these 
two very dry and hard, I thought they would 
hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal when 
the corn was ground. 

I made several smaller things, such as 
little round pots, flat dishes and pitchers, and 
any things my hand turned to, and the heat 
of the sun baked them very hard. But what 
I wanted most of all was a vessel to hold 
liquid and bear the fire, w^hich none of these 
could do. It happened, some time after, 
making a pretty large fire for cooking my 
meat, when I went to put it out, I found a 
broken piece of one of my earthenware 
vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone, 
and red as a tile. This gave me the notion of 
hardening some pots by fire ; and this I did 
until they were quite red-hot through, and 
observed that they did not crack at all. I 
let them stand in the heat about five or six 
hours, and then gradually cool. By this 
means I made some very good, I will not say 
handsome, earthen pots, as hard burnt as 
could be desired. I had hardly patience to 
stay till they were cold before I set one on the 
fire again, with some water in it, to boil me 
some meat, which it did admirably well. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


49 

In due time I reaped my crop of barley and 
rice. I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a 
sickle to cut it down, and all I could do was 
to make one as well as I could out of one 
of the broadswords or cutlasses which I 
saved out of the ship. However, as my first 
crop was but small, I had no great difficulty 
to cut it down ; in short I reaped it my way, 
for I cut off nothing but the ears and carried 
them away in a great basket I had made, and 
rubbed it out with my hands. 

XV. taking 'bread 

My next concern was to find some way of 
grinding my corn, and this I did by pounffing 
it in a mortar which I made out of a block of 
hard wood. How to bake my bread I did 
not know, for I had no oven. However, I 
found out a way for that also, which was this : 
I made some earthen vessels, very broad but 
not deep ; these I burned in the fire and laid 
them by ; and when I wanted to bake I made 
a great fire upon my hearth, which I had 
paved with some square tiles of my own 
making and baking also. When the firewood 
was burned pretty much into embers, or live 
coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, 

D 



50 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

so as to cover it all over, and there I let them 
lie till the hearth was very hot ; then sweeping 
away all the embers,.! set down my loaves, and 
covering them with an earthen pot, drew the 
embers all round the outside of the pot to 
keep in and add to the heat. And thus, as 
well as in the best oven in the world, I baked 
my barley loaves ; and became, in little time, 
a pastry-cook into the bargain, for I made 
myself several cakes of the rice, and puddings. 
I made no pies, nor had I anything to put 
into them, supposing I had, except the flesh 
either of fowls or goats. 

XVI. A Canoe 

All the while these things were doing, you 
may be sure my thoughts ran many times upon 
the prospect of land which I had seen from 
the other side of the island, and I was not 
without wishes that I were on shore there, 
fancying that if I were in an inhabited 
country, I might find some way or other 
to convey myself farther, and perhaps at last 
find some means of escape. 

I thought I would go and look at our 
ship’s boat, which, as I have said, was blown 
up upon the shore a great way in the storm. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 51 

when we were first cast away. She lay 
almost where she did at first, but not quite, 
and was turned by the force of the waves and 
the winds almost bottom upwards, against 
the high ridge of a beachy rough sand, but 
no water about her as before. 

If I had had hands to have refitted her, and 
have launched her into the water, the boat 
would have done very well, and I might have 
gone back to the Braails with her easy enough. 
But I might have easily foreseen that I could 
no more turn her, and set her upright upon 
her bottom, than I could remove the island. 
However, though I gave over the hopes of the 
boat, my desire to venture over for the main 
increased, rather than decreased, as the means 
for it seemed impossible. 

This at length put me upon thinking 
whether it was not possible to make myself 
a canoe, such as the natives of those climates 
make, of the trunk of a great tree. This I 
not only thought possible, but easy, and 
pleased myself extremely with the idea of 
making it, not considering the difficulty I 
should have in moving it when it was made. 
For what was it to me, that when I had chosen 
a vast tree in the woods, I might with much 



52 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

trouble cut it down, if, after I had hewn it 
outside into the proper shape of a boat, and 
burnt or cut out the inside to make it hollow — 
if, after all this, I must leave it where I formed 
it and was not able to launch it into the water ? 

My thoughts were so intent upon my 
voyage over the sea in it, that I never once 
considered how I should get it off the land ; 
and I went to work upon this boat the most 
like a fool that ever man did who had any of 
his senses awake. I felled a cedar tree : it 
was five feet ten inches diameter at the lower 
part next the stump, and four feet eleven 
inches diameter at the end of twenty- two feet. 
It was not without infinite labour that I 
felled this tree. I was twenty days hacking 
and hewing at it at the bottom ; I was Tour- 
teen more getting the branches and limbs, 
and the vast spreading head of it cut off. 
After this it took me a month to shape it to 
something like the bottom of a boat. It cost 
me near three months more to clear the inside, 
so as to make an exact boat of it. This I did 
without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, 
and by dint of hard labour, till I had brought 
it to be a very handsome canoe, big enough to 
have carried six-and-twenty men. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


53 

But all my devices to get it into the water 
failed me. It lay about one hundred yards 
from the water, and not more ; but the first 
inconvenience was, it was uphill towards the 
shore. Well, to get over this, I resolved to 
dig into the earth and so make a slope down- 
wards. This I began, and it cost me a great 



deal of pains ; but when it was done I was 
no better off, for I could no more stir the 
canoe than I could before. 

Then I measured the distance of ground, 
and resolved to cut a dock or canal, to brina: 
the water up to the canoe, seeing I could not 
bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I 
began this work, and when I began to enter 
into it and calculate how deep it was to be 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


54 

dug and how broad, I found that by the 
number of hands I had, being none but my 
own, it must have been ten or twelve years 
before I should have gone through with 
it; so at length I gave this attempt over 
also. 

This grieved me heartily ; and I now saw, 
though too late, the foUy of beginning a work 
before we count the cost. 

XVII. Clothes 

I had now been upwards of three years on 
the island and my clothes began to decay 
mightily. I saved the skins of all the 
creatures that I killed, and I had hung them 
up stretched out with sticks in the sun, by 
means of which some of them were so dry 
and hard that they were fit for little, but 
others were very useful. The first thing I 
made of these was a great cap for my head, 
with the hair on the outside to shoot off the 
rain; and after this I made me a suit of 
clothes wholly of these skins — that is to say, 
a waistcoat, and breeches open at the knees, 
and both loose ; for they were rather wanting 
to keep me cool than to keep me warm. I 
must not omit to acknowledge that they were 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


55 

wretchedly made ; for if I was a bad carpenter, 
I was a worse tailor. However, they were 
such as I made a very good shift with, and 
when I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the 
hair of the waistcoat and cap being outermost, 
I was kept very dry, 

I spent also a great deal of pains and time 
to make me an umbrella. As I was obliged 
to be much abroad it was a most useful thing 
to me, as well for the rains as the heats. I 
took a world of pains at it, and was a great 
while before I could make anything likely to 
hold ; nay, after I thought I had hit the way, I 
spoiled two or three before I made one to my 
mind. But at last I made one that answered 
indifferently well ; the main difficulty I found 
was to make it to let down. I could make it 
spread, but if it did not let down too, and 
draw in, it would not be portable for me 
any way but just over my head, wliich would 
not do. However, at last, as I said, I made 
one to answer. I covered it with skins, the 
hair upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a 
pent-house, and kept off the sun so effectu- 
ally that I could walk out in the hottest of the 
weather with greater advantage than I could 
before in the coolest, and when I had no need 



56 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

for it, I could close it, and carry it under my 
arm. 

I cannot say that after this, for five years, 
any extraordinary thing happened to me, but I 
lived on in the same course, in the same place, 
just as before. The chief things I was 
employed in, besides my yearly labour of 
planting my barley and rice, and curing my 
raisins, I say, besides this yearly labour and my 
daily labour of going out with my gun, I had 
one labour, to make me a canoe, which at 
last I finished ; so that by digging a canal to 
it of six feet wide and four feet deep, I 
brought it to the water. As for the first, 
which was so vastly big, I was obliged to let 
it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach 
one to be wiser next time. 

XVIII. A Sea Voyage 

However, though my little boat was 
finished, it was too small for the purpose 
which I had in mind when I made the first, 
I mean of venturing over to the mainland, at 
least forty miles distant. Accordingly I 
thought no more of that design, but I 
resolved to make a tour round the island. 

For this purpose I fitted up a little mast to 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


57 

my boat, and made a sail to it out of some 
pieces of the ship’s sail, of which I had a great 
stock by me. 

Having fitted my mast and sail and tried 
the boat, I found she would sail very well. 
Then I made little lockers, or boxes, at cither 
end of my boat to put provisions and 
ammunition into, to be kept dry ; and a little 



long hollow place I cut in the inside of the 
boat, where I could lay my gun, 

I fixed my umbrella also at the stern, to 
stand over my head and keep the heat of the 
sun off me ; and thus I took every now and 
then a little voyage upon the sea. At last I 
resoly^' upon my tour ; and accordingly I 
victuaJledjtny ship for the voyage, putting in 
f4o dozen of my loaves of barley bread, an 
barthen pot full of rice, half a goat, and 
raowder and shot for killing more, and two 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


large watch-coats, which I had saved out of 
the seamen’s chests. These I took, one to 
lie upon, and the other to cover me in the 
night. 

It was in the sixth year of my reign, or my 
captivity, which you please, that I set out on 
this voyage, and I found it much longer than 
I expected ; for though the island was not 
very large, yet when I came to the east side of 
it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out about 
two leagues into the sea, some above water, 
some bdow it ; and beyond that a shoal of 
sand lying dry half a league more ; so that I 
was obliged to go a great way out to sea to 
double the point. 

I waited two days for a calm sea. before I 
ventured round this point, but no sooner had 
I done so than I found myself in a swift 
current of water that hurried my boat with 
great violence farther and farther from the 
land. It is scarce possible to imagine the 
distress I was in, being driven from my 
beloved island (for so it appeared to me now 
to be), with no prospect before me but of 
perishing ; not by the sea, for that was calm 
enough, but of starving for hunger. But/ 
presently to my great joy I found the current/ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


59 

abate ; and a little breeze springing up, I 
spread my sail and worked my boat into an 
eddy of the current that carried me back 
towards the northern shore of the island ; 
and with evening I got to land. 

I was now at a great loss which way to get 
home with my boat. I had run too much 
hazard to think of returning by the way I 
went out ; and what might be at the other 
side I knew not, nor had I any mind to run 
any more ventures. So I resolved in the 
morning to make my way westward along the 
shore and to see if there was no creek where 
I might lay up my boat in safety. In about 
three miles, coasting the shore, I found a 
very convenient harbour for my boat, where 
she lay as if she had been in a little dock made 
on purpose for her. 

XIX. A Surprise 

Taking nothing out of her but my gun 
and my umbrella, I began my march home. 
The way was comfortable enough after such a 
voyage as I had been on, and I reached my old 
bower in the evening, where I found every- 
thing standing as I left it. 

I got over the fence, and lay me down in the 



6o ROBINSON CRUSOE 

shade to rest my limbs, for I was very weary, 
and fell asleep. But judge, if you can, what a 
surprise I must be in, when I was waked out 
of my sleep by a voice calling me by my name 
several times, “ Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe, 
poor Robin Crusoe ! Where are you, Robin 
Crusoe ? Where are you ? Where have you 
been ?” No sooner were my eyes open but 
I saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, 
and I knew it was he that spoke to me. Hold- 
ing out my hand and calling him by his 
name, he came to me and sat upon my thumb 
as he used to do, and continued to talk to me, 
“ Poor Robin Crusoe ! ” just as if he had been 
overjoyed to see me again. 

I had now had enough of rambling to sea 
for some time, and had enough to do for 
many days to sit still and reflect upon the 
danger I had been in. I improved myself in 
this time in ail the mechanic exercises which I 
applied myself to ; and I believe I should, 
upon occasion, have made a very good 
carpenter, especially considering how few 
tools I had. 

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected per- 
fection in my earthenware, and contrived well 
enough to make them with a wheel, which I 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


6i 


found infinitely easier and better, because I 
made things round and shaped, which before 
were filthy things indeed to look on. But I 
think I was never more vain of my own per- 
formance, or more joyful for anything I 
found out, than for my being able to make a 
tobacco-pipe ; and though it was a very ugly, 
clumsy thing when it was done, and only 
burnt red, like other earthenware, yet as it was 
hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I 
was exceedingly comforted with it. 

XX. Goat Traps 

Being now in the eleventh year of my 
residence on the island, and my ammunition 
growing low, I set myself to study some art 
to trap and snare the goats, to see whether I 
could catch some of them alive. I dug 
several large pits in the earth, in places where 
I observed the goats used to feed, and over 
these pits I placed hurdles of my own making, 
with a great weight upon them ; and several 
times I put ears of barley and dry rice, without 
setting the trap, and I could easily perceive 
that the goats had gone in and eaten up the 
corn, for I could see the mark of their feet. 
At length I set three traps in one night, and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


62 

going to sec them next morning, I found in 
one of them a large old he-goat and in one of 
the others three kids. As to the old one, I 
knew not what to do with him, he was so 
fierce ; so I let him go. Then I went to the 
three kids, and taking them one by one, I 
tied them with strings together, and with 
some difficulty brought them all home. 

It was a good while before they would 
feed ; but throwing them some sweet corn, it 
tempted them, and they began to be tame. 
And now I found that if I expected to supply 
myself with goats’ flesh, when I had no 
powder or shot left, breeding some up tame 
was my only way; when, perhaps, I might 
have them about my house like a flock of 
sheep. But, then, it occurred to me that I 
must keep the tame from the wild, or else 
they would always run wild when they grew 
up ; and the only way for this was to have 
some enclosed piece of ground, well fenced 
either with a hedge or pale, so that those 
within might not break out, or those without 
break in. 

This was a great undertaking for one pair 
of hands ; yet, as I saw there was an absolute 
necessity for doing it, my first piece of work 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 63 

was to find out a proper piece of ground— 
viz., where there was likely to be herbage for 
them to eat, water for them to drink, and 
cover to keep them from the sun. 

I pitched upon a place very proper for all 
these, being a plain, open piece of meadow 
land, which had two or three little drills of 
fresh water in it, and at one end was very 
woody. I enclosed a piece of about one 
hundred and fifty yards in length, and one 
hundred yards in breadth, which, as it would 
maintain as many as I should have in any 
reasonable time, so, as my flock increased, I 
could add more ground to my enclosure. 

I went to work with courage. I was about 
three months hedging in the first piece ; and, 
till I had done it, I tethered the three kids in 
the best part of it, and used them to feed as 
near me as possible to make them familiar ; 
and very often I would go and carry them some 
ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed 
them out of my hand ; so that, after my 
enclosure was finished, and I let them loose, 
they would follow me up and down, bleating 
after me for a handful of corn. 

This answered my end, and in about a year 
and a half I had a flock of about twelve goats. 



64 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

and in two years more I had three-and-forty, 
besides several that I killed for food. But this 
was not all, for now I had not only goat’s flesh 
to feed upon, but milk too. I set up my 
dairy, and after a great many trials and failures, 
made me both butter and cheese at last. 

XXL A Footprint 

It happened one day, about noon, going 
towards the place where I kept my boat, I 
was exceedingly surprised with the print of 
a man’s naked foot on the shore, which was 
very plain to be seen in the sand. I stood 
like one thunderstruck. I listened, I looked 
round me, but I could hear nothing nor see 
anything. I went up the shore and down the 
shore, but I could see no other impression but 
that one. 

I concluded that it must be some of the 
savages of the mainland over against me, who 
had wandered out to sea in their canoes and 
had landed on the island, but were gone away 
again to- sea ; being as loath, perhaps, to have 
stayed in this desolate island as I would have 
been to have had them. I was very thankful 
that I was so happy as not to be thereabouts at 
that time, or that they did not see my boat, by 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 65 

which they would have concluded that some 
inhabitants had been in the place, and perhaps 
have searched farther for me. Then terrible 
thoughts racked my imagination about their 
having found out my boat, and known 
thereby that there were people here ; and 
that, if so, I should certainly have them come 
again in greater numbers, and devour me ; 
that if it should happen that they should not 
find me, yet they would fiind my enclosure, 
destroy all my corn, and carry away all my 
flock of tame goats, and I should perish at 
last for mere want. 

In the middle of these apprehensions and 
reflections, it came into my thoughts. one day 
that all this might be a mere cliimera of my 
own, and that this foot might be the print of 
my own foot, when I came on shore from my 
own boat. This cheered me up a little too, 
and I began to persuade myself it was aU a 
delusion ; that it was nothing else but my 
own foot. Again I considered also that I 
could by no means tell for certain where I had 
trod, and where I had not; and that if, at 
last, this was only the print of my own foot, I 
had played the part of those fools who try to 
make stories of spectres and apparitions, and 

E 3 



66 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

then are themselves frighted at them more 
than anybody else. 

Now I began to take courage, and to peep 
abroad again, for I had not stirred out of my 
castle for three days and nights, so that I 
began to starve for provision ; for I had little 
or nothing within doors but some barley- 
cakes and water. Then I knew that my goats 
wanted to be milked too, which usually was 
my evening diversion ; and the poor creatures 
were in great pain and inconvenience for want 
of it. 

Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief 
that this was nothing but the print of one of 
my own feet, and so I might be truly said to 
start at my own shadow, I began to go 
abroad again, and went to my country-house 
to milk my flock ; but to see with what fear I 
went forward, how often I looked behind 
me, how I was ready, every now and then, to 
lay down my basket, and run for my life, it 
would have made anyone have thought I was 
haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had 
been lately most terribly frighted; and so, 
indeed, I had. However, as I went down thus 
two or three days, and saw nothing, I began 
to be a little bolder, and to think there was 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 67 

really nothing in it but my own imagination ; 
but I could not persuade myself fully of this 
till I should go down to the shore again, and 
see this print of a foot, and measure it by my 
own. But when I came to the place — first, 
it appeared evident to me that when I laid 
up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore 
anywhere thereabouts ; secondly, when I 
came to measure the mark with my own 
foot, I found my foot not so large by a great 
deal. Both these things filled my head with 
new imaginations, and gave me the vapours 
again to the highest degree, so that I shook 
with cold like one in an ague; and I went 
home again, filled with the belief that some 
man or men had been on shore there ; or, 
in short, that the island was inhabited, and I 
might be surprised before I was aware ; and 
what course to take for my security I knew 
not. 


XXII. My Defences 

Now I began sorely to repent that I had 
dug my cave so large as to bring a door 
through again, which door, as I said, came 
out beyond where my fortification joined to 
the rock Upon maturely considering this. 



68 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


therefore, I resolved to draw me a second 
fortification, in the same manner of a semi- 
circle, at a distance from my wall, just where 
I had planted a double row of trees about 
twelve vears before, of which I made men- 
tion: these trees having been planted so 
thick before, there wanted but few piles to be 
driven between them, that they should be 
thicker and stronger, and my wall would be 
soon finished. So that I had now a double 
wall ; and my outer wall was thickened with 
pieces of timber, old cables, and everything I 
could think of to make it strong, having in it 
seven little holes, about as big as I might put 
my arm out at. In the inside of this, I 
thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, 
continually bringing earth out of my cave, 
and laying it at the foot of the wall, and 
walking upon it ; and through the seven 
holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of 
which I had got seven on shore out of the 
ship ; these, I say, I planted Hke cannon, and 
fitted them into frames that held them like a 
carriage, that so I could fire all the seven guns 
in two minutes’ time. This wall I was many 
a weary month in finishing, and yet never 
thought myself safe tfil it was done. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 69 

When this was done, I stuck all the ground 
without my wall, for a great length every way, 
as full with stakes or sticks of the osier-like 
wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they 
could well stand ; insomuch that I believe I 
might set in near twenty thousand of them, 
leaving a pretty large space between them and 
my wall, that I might have room to see an 
enemy, and they might have no shelter from 
the young trees, if they attempted to approach 
my outer wall. 

Thus, in two years’ time, I had a thick 
grove ; and in five or six years’ time I had a 
wood before my dwelling grov/n so monstrous 
thick and strong that it was indeed perfectly 
impassable ; and no man, of what kind so- 
ever, would ever imagine that there was 
anything beyond it, much less a habitation. 
As for the way which I proposed to myself to 
go in and out (for I left no avenue), it was by 
setting two ladders, one to a part of the rock 
which was low, and then broke in, and left 
room to place another ladder upon that ; so 
when the two ladders were taken down, no 
man living could come down to me without 
injuring himself ; and if they had come down, 
they were stiH on the outside of my outer wall. 



70 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


Thus I took all the measures human pru- 
dence could suggest for my own preservation ; 
and it will be seen, at length, that they were 
not altogether without just reason ; though I 
foresaw nothing at that time more than my 
mere fear suggested to me. 

While this was doing, I was not altogether 
careless of my other affairs ; for I had a great 
concern upon me for my little herd of goats : 
they were not only a present supply to me 
upon every occasion, and began to be 
sufficient for me, without the expense of 
powder and shot, but also abated the fatigue 
of my hunting after the wild ones ; and I was 
loth to lose the advantage of them, and to 
have them all to nurse up over again. 

For this purpose, after long consideration, 
I could think of but two ways to preserve 
them: one was to find another convenient 
place to dig a cave underground, and to drive 
them into it every night ; and the other was 
to enclose two or three little bits of land, 
remote from one another, and as much 
concealed as I could, where I might keep 
half-a-doien young goats in each place; so 
that if any disaster happened to the flock in 
general, I might be able to raise them again 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 71 

with little trouble and time. Accordingly I 
went about to find out the most retired parts 
of the island ; and I pitched upon one that 
was as private indeed as my heart could wish 
for. It was a little damp piece of ground, in 
the middle of the thick woods where I almost 
lost myself once before endeavouring to come 
back that way from the eastern part of the 
island. Here I found a clean piece of land, near 
three acres, so surrounded with woods that it 
was almost an enclosure by nature ; at least 
it did not want near so much labour to make it 
so as the others I had worked so hard at. 

I immediately went to work with this piece 
of ground, and in less than a month’s time I 
had so fenced it round that my flock, or 
herd, call it what you please, were well 
enough secured on it. So, without any 
further delay, I removed ten young she-goats 
and two he-goats to this piece. . And when 
theyi wete there I continued to perfect the 
fence till I had made it quite secure, which, 
however, I did at more leisure. 

After I had thus secured one part of my 
little living stock, I went about the whole 
island searching for another private place to 
make such another deposit, when, wandering 



72 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

more to tlie west point of the island than I 
had ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I 
thought I saw a boat at a great distance. I 
had found a telescope in one of the seamen’s 
chests, ’which I had saved out of our ship, 
but I had it not about me ; and this ’was so 
remote that I could not tell what to make of it. 



Whether it was a boat or not I did not know ; 
but as I descended the hill I could see no 
more of it, so I gave it over ; only I resolved 
to go no more out without a telescope in my 
pocket. 

I was presently convinced that the seeing a 
print of a man’s foot was not such a strange 
thing as I imagined. But for the fact that I 
was cast on the side of the island where the 
savages never came, I should have known 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


73 

that nothing was more frequent than .for the 
canoes from the mainland, when they hap- 
pened to be a little too far out to sea, to shoot 
over to that side of the island for harhour ; 
likewise, as they often met and fought- in their 
canoeSj the victors having taken any prisoners 
would bring them over to this shore, where, 
according to their dreadful custom, being all 
cannibals, they would kiU and eat them. 

XXIII. My Family 

I was now in my twenty-third year of 
residence in the island, and was so naturalised 
to the place and to the manner of living, that 
could I have but enjoyed the certainty that no 
savages would come to the place to disturb 
me, I could have been content to spend the 
rest of my time there, even to the last moment, 
till I laid me down and died. I had also 
arrived to some little diversions and amuse- 
ments that made the time pass more pleasantly 
than it did before. And, first, I had taught 
my Poll to speak ; and he did It so familiarly 
and talked so plain, that it was very pleasant 
to me ; and he lived with me no less than six- 
and-twenty years. How long he might live 
afterwards I know not : perhaps poor Poll 



74 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


may be alive there still, calling after Robin 
Crusoe to this day. 

My dog was a very pleasant and loving 
companion to me for no less than sixteen 
years of my time, and then died of mere old 
age. As for my cats, they multiplied, as I 
have observed, to that degree that I was 
obliged to shoot several of them at first to 
keep them from devouring me and all I had ; 
but at length, when the two old ones I 
brought with me were gone, they all ran wild 
into the woods, excepttwo or three favourites, 
which I kept tame, and these were part of 
my family. Besides these, I always had two 
or three household kids about me, whom I 
taught to feed out of my hand. And I had 
two more parrots, which talked pretty well 
and would all call “ Robin Crusoe,” but none 
Like my first; nor, indeed, did I take the 
pains with them that I did with the first. I 
had also several tame sea-fowls, whose names 
I knew not, whom I caught upon the shore, 
and cut their wings. They lived among the 
low trees which I had planted in front of my 
dwelling, and bred there, which was very 
agreeable to me ; so that, as I said, I began to 
be very well contented with the life I led. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


75 


XXIV. Savages 

It was in the month of December, in my 
twenty-third year on the island, and as this- 
was the time of my harvest I was pretty much 
abroad in the fields. Going out early in the 



morning, even before it was thorough day- 
light, I was surprised with seeing a light of 
some kind upon the shore at a distance from 
me of about two miles. 

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight 
and stopped short, not daring to go forward 



76 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

lest I might be surprised. I went into my 
castle (as I now called it), loaded all my 
muskets and pistols, and resolved to defend 
myself to the last gasp. After sitting there 
for about two hours, I was not able to bear 
the suspense any longer ; so I mounted to the 
top of the hill and, pulling out my telescope, 
I began to look for the place. I presently 
found that there were no less than nine naked 
savages sitting round a small fire they had 
made, not to warm them, for they had no 
need of that, the weather being extreme hot, 
but, as I supposed, to dress some of their 
barbarous diet of human flesh which they had 
brought with them. 

They had two canoes with them, drawn up 
on the shore ; and as soon as the tide made to 
the westward, I saw them ail take boat and 
paddle av/ay to'wards the mainland. 

XXV. A Shipwreck 

I spent my days now in great perplexity 
and anxiety of mind, expecting that I should, 
one day or other, fall into the hands of these 
merciless creatures. I slept unquiet, dreamed 
always frightful dreams, and often started out 
of my sleep in the night. However, I wore 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


77 

out a year and three months before I saw anv 
more of them ; and, to waive all this for a 
while, it was in the middle of May, on the 
sixteenth day I think, as well as my poor 
wooden calendar would reckon (for I marked 
ail upon the post still) — I say, it was the 
sixteenth of May that it blew a very great 
storm of wind all day, with a great deal of 
lightning and thunder, and a very foul night 
it vj-as after it. As I was reading in the Bible, 
and taken up with very serious* thoughts 
about my present condition, I was surprised 
with the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at 
sea. 

I immediately considered that this must be 
some ship in distress, and I thought that, 
though I could not help them, it may be they 
might help me ; so I brought together all the 
dry wood I could get at hand, and, making a 
good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the 
hill . The wood was dry and blazed freely ; 
and though the wind blew very hard, it burnt 
fairly out ; so I was certain, if there was any 
such thing as a ship, they must needs see it, 
and no doubt they did; for as soon as my 
fire blazed up I heard another gun, and after 
that several others, all from the same quarter. 



78 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

I plied my fire all night long till day broke ; 
and when it was broad day, and the air cleared 
up, I saw something at a great distance at sea, 
east of the island, whether a sail or a hull I 
could not distinguish. 

As it did not move I concluded it was a ship 
at anchor; and being eager, you may be 
sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my 
hand, and ran towards the south side of the 
island, to the rocks where I had formerly 
been carried away by the current. There I 
could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the 
wreck of another ship cast away in the night 
on those concealed rocks. What had become 
of the men that were in her I knew not, nor 
did I ever learn, though I imagined that, upon 
seeing my light, they might have put them- 
selves into their boat and have endeavoured to 
make the shore ; but that the sea going very 
high, they might have been lost. I could do 
no more than pity the poor men, and give 
thanks to God who had so comfortably 
provided for me in my desolate condition. 

It was now calm and I had a great mind to 
venture out in my boat to this wreck. It was 
a dismal sight to look at, the ship being stuck 
fast, jammed in between two rocks. All the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 79 

stern and quarter of her was beaten to pieces 
by the sea and her naasts were broken short 
off. When I came close to her a dog appeared 
upon her, who, seeing me coming, yelped 
and cried, and as soon as I called him, jumped 
into the sea to come to me, and I took him 
into the boat, but found him almost dead from 



hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake ol 
bread, and he ate it like a ravenous wolf that 
had been starving a fortnight in the snow. 

Besides the dog, there was nothing left 
in the ship that had life, nor any goods that 
I could see but what were spoiled by the water. 
I saw several chests, which I believed belonged 
"^o some of the seamen ; and I got two of them 


8o ROBINSON CRUSOE 

into the boat, without examining what was in 
them. I took a fire shovel and tongs, which 
I wanted extremely, as also two little brass 
kettles, a copper pot and a gridiron: And 
with this cargo and the dog, I came away. 

I reposed that night in the boat ; and in 
the morning I got my cargo on shore and 
began to examine the particulars. When I 
opened the chests I found several things of 
great use to me. For example, I found in 
one a fine case of bottles filled with cordial 
waters, fine and very good. I found two 
pots of very good sweetmeats, so fastened on 
top that the salt water had not hurt them ; 
also some shirts, which were very welcome 
to me ; and about a dozen and a half of white 
linen handkerchiefs and coloured neck-cloths. 
The former were also very welcome, being 
exceedingly refreshing to wipe my face in a 
hot day. 

Besides this, when I came to the till in the 
chest, I found there three great bags of pieces 
of eight, which held about eleven hundred 
pieces in all ; and in one of them, wrapped up 
in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and some 
small bars or wedges of gold. I suppose they 
might aU weigh near a pound. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 8i 

The other chest I found had some clothes 
in it, but of little value. Upon the whole, I 
got very little upon this voyage that was of 
any use to me ; for as to the money, I had no 
manner of occasion for it, and I would have 
given it all for three or four pairs of English 
shoes and stockings, v/hich were things I 
greatly wanted, but had not had on my feet 
now for many years. 

XXVI. Tk Salvages Again 

About a year and a half after this, I was 
surprised, one morning early, with seeing no 
less than five canoes all on shore together, 
and the people who belonged to them all 
landed and out of my sight. On clambering 
to the top of the hill, I observed, with the 
help of my telescope, that they were about 
thirty in number and that they had a fire 
kindled, round which they were dancing. 

While I was thus looking on them, I per- 
ceived two miserable creatures dragged from 
the boats. One of them was immediately 
knocked down by the savages with a club or 
wooden sword. The other was left standing 
by himself. Seeing himself a little at Hbert\\ 



82 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

he started away from them and ran swiftly 
along the sands towards me. 

I was dreadfully frighted when I saw him 
to run my way, especially when I saw him 
pursued by the savages. However, I kept 
my station, and my spirits began to recover 
when I saw that there were not above three 
men that followed him : and still more was I 
encouraged when I found that he outstripped 
them exceedingly in running, and gained 
ground on them ; so that, if he could but 
hold it for half-an-hour, I saw easily he would 
fairly get away from them all. 

There was between them and my castle the 
creek, which 1 mentioned often in the first 
part of my story, where I landed my cargoes 
out of the ship ; and this I saw plainly he must 
necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch 
would be taken there ; but when the savage 
escaping came thither, he made nothing of 
it, though the tide was then up ; but, plung- 
ing in, swam through in about thirty strokes, 
or thereabouts, landed, and tan with exceed- 
ing strength and swiftness. When the three 
persons came to the creek, I found that two 
of them could swim, but the third could not, 
and that, standing at the other side, he looked 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 83 

at the others, but went no farther, and soon 
after went softly back again; which, as it 
happened, was very well for him in the end. 
I observed that the two who swam were yet 
more than twice as long swimming over the 
creek than the fellow was that fled from them. 

It came now very warmly upon my 
thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now 
was my time to get a servant, and perhaps a 
companion or assistant, and that I was called 
plainly by Providence to save this poor 
creature’s life. I ran down the hill and fetched 
my two guns ; then returning, I cut across 
and placed myself between the pursuers and 
the pursued, hallooing aloud to him that fled, 
who was at first perhaps as much frighted at 
me as at them. I advanced upon the two that 
followed, and rushing upon the foremost, I 
knocked him down with the end of my gun. 
I was loath to fire, because I would not have 
the rest hear, though at that distance it would 
not have been easily heard — and being out of 
sight of the smoke too, they would not have 
easily known what to make of it. 

Having knocked this feUow down, the 
other who pursued him stopped, as if he had 
been frighted, and I advanced apace to- 



84 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

wards him. But as I came nearer I saw that 
he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to 
shoot at me, so I was obliged to shoot at 
him first, which I did and killed him at the 
first shot. 


XXVII. My Man Friday 
The poor savage who fled was so frighted 
with the fire and noise of my piece, that he 
stood stock still, and seemed rather inclined to 
ily than to approach me. I hallooed to him, 
and made signs to him to come forward, 
which he easily understood, and came a little 
nearer. I smiled at him, and looked 
pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still 
nearer. At length he came close to me, and 
then he kneeled down, kissed the ground, and 
taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his 
head. This, it seems, was in token of 
swearing to be my slave for ever. 

He was a comely handsome fellow, per- 
fectly well made, with straight long limbs, 
not too large, tall, and well shaped, and, as I 
reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He 
had a very good countenance, not a fierce 
and surly aspect, but seemed to have some- 
thing very manly in his face, and yet he had aU 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


85 

the sweetness and softness of a European in his 
countenance too, especially when he smiled. 

His hair was long and black, not curly 
like wool ; his forehead very high and large, 
and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness 
in his eyes. The colour of his skin was not 
quite black, but very tawny, and yet not of an 



ugly yellow tawny, as the Brazilians and 
Virginians, and other natives of America 
are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive colour, 
that had in it something very agreeable, 
though not very easy to describe. His face 
was round and plump, his nose small, not flat 
like the negroes, a very good mouth, thin 
lips, and his teeth fine, well set, and white as 
ivory. 



86 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to 
eat, and a draught of water to drink ; and 
having refreshed him, I made signs to him to 
go lie down and sleep, pointing to a place 
where I had laid a great pile of rice-straw, and 
a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon 
myself sometimes. 

After he had slept about half-an-hour, he 
waked again and came out to me where I was 
milking my goats in the enclosure just by. 
When he espied me, he came running to me, 
laying himself down again upon the ground, 
with all the possible signs of an humble, 
thankful disposition, making a great many 
antic gestures to show it. At last he lays his 
head flat upon the ground, close to my foot, 
and sets my other foot upon his head, as he 
had done before ; and after this, made all the 
signs to me of subjection, servitude, and sub- 
mission imaginable, to let me know how he 
would serve me so long as he lived. I 
understood him in many things, and let him 
know I was very well pleased with him. In a 
Httle time I began to speak to him, and teach 
him to speak to me; at first, I made him 
know his name should be Friday, which was 
the day I saved his life. I likewise taught him 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 87 

to say Master, and then let him know that 
was to be my name. 

I likewise taught him to say Yes and No, 
and to know the meaning of them. I gave 
him some milk in my earthen pot, and let him 
see me drink it before him, and sop my bread 
in it ; and gave him a cake of bread to do the 
like, which he quickly complied with, and 
made signs that it was very good for him. 
I kept there with him all that night ; but, as 
soon as it was day, I beckoned to him to come 
with me, and let him know I would give him 
some clothes ; at which he seemed very glad, 
for he was naked. 

I then led him up to the top of the hill, to 
see if his enemies were gone. I saw the 
place where they had been, but no appearance 
of them or their canoes ; so it was plain that 
they were gone. 

We then came back to our castle, and there I 
fell to work for my man Friday ; and, first of 
all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which 
I had out of the poor gunner’s chest I 
mentioned, which I found in the wreck, and 
which, with a little alteration, fitted him very 
well ; and then I made him a jerkin of goat’s 
skin, as well as my skill would allow (for I 



88 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

was now grown a toierabiy good tailor) ; 
and I gave him a cap which I made of hare’s 
skin, very convenient, and fashionable 
enough ; and thus he was clothed, for the 
present, tolerably well, and was mighty well 
pleased to see himself almost as well clothed 
as his master. It is true, he went awkwardly 
in these clothes at first ; but a little easing 
them where he complained they hurt him, and 
using himself to them, at length he took to 
them very well. 

The next day, after I came home to my 
hutch with him, I began to consider where 
I should lodge him ; and, that I might do 
well for him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, 
I made a little tent for him in the vacant place 
between my two fortifications, in the inside 
of the last, and in the outside of the first. 
As there was a door or entrance there into my 
cave, I made a formal framed door-case, and 
a door to it of boards, and set it up in the 
passage, a Httle within the entrance; and, 
causing the door to open in the inside, I 
barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders, 
too ; so that Friday could no way come at me 
in the inside of my innermost wall without 
making so much noise in getting over that it 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 89 

must needs awaken me. But I needed none 
of all this precaution ; never man had a more 
faithful, loving, sincere servant that he was 
to me ; his affection to me was that like of a 
child to a father, and I daresay he would 

j 

have sacrificed his life to save mine, upon any 
occasion whatsoever. 

XXVIII. Friday and the Gun 
After two or three days I took him out 
with me one morning to the woods. I went, 
indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own 
flock, and bring it home and dress it ; but as 
I was going I saw a she-goat lying down in 
the shade, and two young kids sitting by her. 
I caught hold of Friday. “Hold,” says I, 
“stand still,” and made signs to him not to 
stir. Immediately I presented my piece, shot 
and killed one of the kids. Friday trembled 

J 

and shook, and looked so amazed that I 
thought he would have sunk down. He did 
not see the kid I had shot at, or perceive I had 
killed it — but ripped up his waistcoat to feel 
if he was not wounded ; and, as I found 
presently, thought I was resolved to kill him, 
for he came and kneeled down to me, and 
embracing my knees, said a great many 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


90 

things I could not understand ; but I could 
easily see that the meaning was to pray me not 
to kill him. 

I soon found a way to convince him I 
would do him no harm. Taking him by the 



hand, I laughed at him, and pointing to the 
kid which I had killed, beckoned him to run 
to fetch it, which he did. While he was 
wondering and looking to see how the 
creature was killed, I loaded my gun again, 
and by and by I saw a great fowl like a hawk. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


91 

sit upon a tree within shot. I called Friday 
to me again, and, pointing at the fowl (which 
was indeed a parrot) and to my gun and to the 
ground under the parrot, I made him under- 
stand that I would shoot and kill that bird. 
Accordingly I fired, and bade him look, and 
immediately he saw the parrot fall. 

He stood like one frightened again, not- 
withstanding all I had said to him ; and I 
found he was the more amazed because he 
did not see me put anything into the gun, but 
thought there must be some wonderful fund 
of death in that thing, able to kill man, beast, 
bird, or anything near or far off. He would 
not so much as touch the gun for several days 
afterwards, but would speak to it and talk 
to it when he was by himself ; which, as I 
afterwards learned of him, was to desire it 
not to kill him. 

Well, after his astonishment was a little 
over at this, I pointed to him to run and 
fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, and 
brought her to me. I took this opportunity 
to charge the gun again, and let him see me 
do it, that I might be ready for any other 
mark that might present ; but nothing more 
offered at that time : so I brought home the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


92 

kid, and the same evening I boiled or stewed 
some of the flesh, and made some very good 
broth. After I had begun to eat some I 
gave some to my man, who seemed very 
glad of it, and liked it very well. 

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and 
broth, I was resolved to feast him the next 
day with roasting a piece of the kid ; this I 
did by hanging it before the fire on a string, 
as I had seen many people do in England, 
setting two poles up, one on each side of the 
fire, and one across on the top, and tying the 
string to the cross-stick, letting the meat turn 
continually. This Friday admired very much ; 
but when he came to taste the flesh, he took 
so many ways to tell me how well he liked it, 
that I could not but understand him : and 
at last he told me, as well as he could, he 
would never eat man’s flesh any more, which 
I was very glad to hear. 

The next day I set him to work beating 
some corn out, and sifting it in the manner I 
used to do ; and he soon understood how to 
do it as well as I, especially after he had seen 
what the meaning of it was, and that it was to 
make bread of. After that I let him see me 
make my bread, and bake it too ; and in a 



ROBINSC 


little time Friday was a^le to ao 
for me, as well as I could do it myself. 

This was the pleasantest year of all the life 
I led in this place. Friday began to talk 
pretty well, and to understand the names of 
almost everything I had occasion to call for, 
and of every place I had to send him to. He 
talked a great deal to me, so that I began now 
to have some use for my tongue again, which, 
indeed, I had very little occasion for before, 
that is to say for speaking. The conversation 
which employed the hours between us was 
such as made the three years we lived together 
perfectly and completely happy, if any such 
thing as complete happiness can be attained 
in this world. 


Under these happier conditions, Crusoe lived on 
his island three years longer, during which time he 
rescued several other unfortunate creatures from the 
hands of the cannibal savages — among them being 
Friday’s own father and a Spaniard. And then, 
when, as he says, he was beginning to be more like 
a king than ever, with subjects obedient to him, 
deliverance came. An English ship put in at the 
island. The crew had mutinied, and their object in 
calling at such an out-of-the-way place was that they 
might put the Captain ashore and leave him to his 
fate. With the help of Crusoe and his followers. 



92 ROBINSON; CRUSOE 

^id, and possession of his ship, and 

when ne sailed away, Crusoe and his man Friday 
went with him. “ And thus,” he says, ” I left the 
island, the 19th of December, in the year 1686, after 
I had been upon it eight and twenty years, two 
months, and ninteen days.” 






